HONG KONG OPEN
October 17, 2014
Daan Huizing
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  DAAN HUIZING:   Yeah, it's good.   I'm happy that I'm finally scoring a little bit now.   I've been playing pretty decently the last few weeks, but yeah, got nothing going and nothing went in and stuff.   
Playing pretty much the same game here but making a couple more putts.   Yeah, that gets me in the top.   I think I just need to keep looking up and keep doing what I do. 

Q.   Certainly looked like you got it going in terms of scoring on day one, and nice and solid day two?
DAAN HUIZING:   Yeah, I wasn't as solid, really.   I missed too many greens.   Had to make quite a lot of up‑and‑downs.   But I feel good on these greens.   They are nice and quick and true.   
So I think that's helping me a little bit, and yeah, maybe a little session on the range this afternoon to get the strike a little bit better.

Q.   I'm told you were across at Gleneagles as a fan. 
DAAN HUIZING:   Yeah, it was amazing.   I was there for my sponsor EY on Saturday and Sunday, and spoke to Harrington in the weeks before.   So he got me under the ropes and on the fairways on the Sunday, so that was really amazing.   We were right on top of everything.   Yeah, great experience.

Q.   Inspirational? 
DAAN HUIZING:   Yeah, surely.   I looked at the guys, how they were dealing with the situation and how their attitude was and stuff like that.   So yeah, and then the golf they showed was amazing, as well. 

Q.   I'm told that you had one conversation in Gleneagles, saying you will like Hong Kong, Hong Kong really will suit your game.   Do you remember that? 
DAAN HUIZING:   Not sure who said that, but I've talked about it with Derksen and he loves it here.   He's been here often and played well many times here.   Yeah, he said it's a good course for you, and, yeah, it's a great golf course.   I really like it.   Like last week was such a bomber's course and you could hit it anywhere.   This week, you don't need to hit driver everywhere, but you need to be straight, and I like that. 

Q.   Presumably given your position on the Order of Merit, it's good to come to a course which should favor you. 
DAAN HUIZING:   Yeah, well, you never know beforehand.   I mean, it's my first time on any course, and one course suits you and the other one doesn't, even if people say so or not.   But yeah, I feel good here and it's a lot of fun playing this course. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT