NHL AWARDS CEREMONY
June 23, 2010
Tyler Myers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 Q. What is your immediate reaction? 
 TYLER MYERS: First reaction was I was nervous for my speech. But, you know, it's very exciting. You know, I can't believe I'm at this point right now, and to be able to share it with family and friends was a pretty special moment for me.

 Q. You mentioned all your friends were excited? 
 TYLER MYERS: Yeah, they've only been here one night, and they've been having a hell of a time so far (laughing). I'm sure it will continue.

 Q. (Indiscernible)?
 TYLER MYERS: Definitely nice to be put in that group of guys. Just even to be put in a group with the rookies this year was enough for me. I was just happy to come and be in Vegas, win or lose. So far it's been a great experience. But to be able to walk up on stage, you know, I'll never forget it.

 Q. When I talked to Matt and Jimmy, they both kind of thought you were going to win. They just thought with the season you had. Did you have an inkling that you were going to win it? 
 TYLER MYERS: No, I didn't have any idea. You know, those two guys had seasons where they could have easily been walking out there just as much as I could have. So I didn't have any idea. 
 When they did call my name it was a relief to have this over with. But at the same time, you know, it's nice to be able to experience this. 

 Q. On the first day of camp in September, had someone gone to you and said, By the way you're going to win the Calder this year, what would have been your reaction? 
 TYLER MYERS: I would have laughed in their face (laughing). That's it. (Laughing). 

 Q. This year the way it's gone, you were just trying to make a hockey club in training camp, now you've finished it off with the Calder Trophy. You've gone through a lot now. You've had a lot of experiences. Is that going to affect the way you prepare in the future and for year two? 
 TYLER MYERS: No, I think the big thing for me going into next year is don't try to change too much, don't try to do too much coming into my second year. Just focus on the things I did last year. Obviously there are a lot of improvements to make, but I don't want to change too much of my game.

 Q. Where have you learned to be grounded? You're a very grounded person, where have you learned that? 
 TYLER MYERS: My parents, definitely. They made sure I stayed grounded through the good and bad days. So I have a lot to be thankful for. They were a big part of the reason why I'm so grounded and I owe them a lot for that. 

 Q. Do you take that on the ice, too, in the style that you play? 
 TYLER MYERS: Yeah, when it's time to work, you work, and you get some time off, don't get a big head. Just enjoy the moment, and that's the mindset I take.

 Q. Six months from now a lot of 20-year-olds make a mistake on the ice and it would destroy them for a month. For you it wouldn't even destroy you for one shift. You've been able to recover?
 TYLER MYERS: My coaches in Kelowna, that part of my game, it wasn't until the World Juniors before I started to figure that out. Before the World Juniors, I would have a bad shift and be done for the game and maybe even the next game. So I really had to -- that was one of the biggest learning curves for me, and I owe my coaches in Kelowna that a lot. Just have a bad shift, don't worry about it. Go on and have another one.

 Q. (Indiscernible) what did you think when you heard that Wahlberg say that? 
 TYLER MYERS: I was like, Who won? I was confused, but it was pretty funny.

 Q. Did you get an explanation for that? Did he just make a mistake there? 
 TYLER MYERS: No, I'm pretty sure he was making a joke (laughing). It was just like when he said it, I was like just kind of a little confused. 

 Q. You mentioned your days this in Kelowna and watching you there, do you think the extra year after you left for Toronto, the extra year being in Toronto and the coaching staff and the development of the coaches there help you prepare for the great season you had and winning this award? 
 TYLER MYERS: Yeah, that first year after the draft I wasn't ready to make that jump. Spending one more year in Kelowna and also watching what Luke did with Toronto his first year, it was nice to kind of learn from him. 
 I think if I would have made that jump after the draft, I wouldn't have done near as well. 

 Q. How much longer until you'll be the next defenseman in the world? 
 TYLER MYERS: Not going to be thinking about that for a long time (laughing). Just go on to next year and work as hard as I can.

 Q. Second Canadian defenseman in the past 30 years to win this award. Can you put that into context? 
 TYLER MYERS: It hasn't really sunk in. It's a very special moment to be in a group of all of those guys. Not only the defensemen, but I don't think it's even sunk in yet. It's been fun the past two days and this past year. I just want to continue that. 

 Q. Are you amazed with all the defensemen from your draft that have already made it and done well? 
 TYLER MYERS: Yeah, it really is amazing. I remember them calling it the year of the "D." So far I think, you know, it's lived up to that to that name. 

 Q. Now that you've had some time to kind of reflect on it, what do you take from that first experience that you had in the first playoff experience? 
 TYLER MYERS: You learn a lot. I've learned a lot from it. You know, it's tough to take that first round loss, but, you know, I think that just pushes me and pushes the rest of the guys even more to push for a top spot next year in the playoffs, pushes you even more to win that first round. It's just step by step, and you take it day by day. 
 I think having that mindset of taking it day by day for me last year really helped me with my consistency.

 Q. You were also named to the All Rookie Team this year. In addition to the Calder, what's that mean to you? 
 TYLER MYERS: It means a lot. With the Olympics they didn't have any of the events, but all the same, that's a big honor as well. To be put in a group with those guys, it's a huge honor for me. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT