ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 30, 2011
John Rollins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You've been pretty consistent. 28 putts each of the first three rounds.   
 JOHN ROLLINS: Yeah, I didn't know that until now. But the game has felt good. I've felt very comfortable on the golf course this week, and we've got three good ones, hoping for one more.  
  
  Q. Three rounds in the 60s. I thought it was very important to make birdie on that last hole. Get you to 11 and that could be the last group through the end of the day.   
 JOHN ROLLINS: Yeah, we'll wait to see what happens. But you expect Bubba with his length to poll lie birdie 18 and get there in the final group. But either way, one shot back going into tomorrow, and hopefully I can make it happen.  
  
  Q. Ball striking has been good all three rounds?  
 JOHN ROLLINS: Yeah, I've hit the ball solid good all week. I think that's good with the wind we've had. I just really controlled my distances and controlled trajectory very well, and it's just been a good week.  
  
  Q. Doesn't seem like you're just in control of your game, but your emotions as well. It seems like you're thinking very well?  
 JOHN ROLLINS: Yeah, actually I owe that to Morris Pickens. I started to work with him a couple of weeks ago. Just really trying to make the game simple again and trying to take it one shot at a time, and I've been able to do a good job of that this week.  
  
  Q. That is so easy to say. But playing in the wind, people around you making birdies, it is really hard to execute one shot at a time?   
 JOHN ROLLINS: It really has been. It's been a struggle for me this year and late last year. Just had a time there where I needed to do something different. And so far what we've talked about is working well.  
  
  Q. Third consecutive round in the 60s. From our view, you look so comfortable out there. What has made you look so comfortable out there?   
 JOHN ROLLINS: One, obviously, I'm hitting the ball solid. When you hit the ball where you're looking and controlling distances and trajectories and things like that, it makes it a lot easier.   
 Plus this week something different for me is my mental approach has been a lot better. Mentally on the golf course I've been stronger. I've been able to stay patient and move away from any mistakes that I may make or any bad shots. I've been very fortunate to hit a lot of good ones and just keep plugging along.  
  
  Q. How much more do you lean on that new mental approach heading into Sunday now?   
 JOHN ROLLINS: I think it's huge. Coming down the stretch on the back nine on Sunday with a chance to win, I think all the guys that are there mentally and tough and can stay patient and stay in their game and in their rhythm are the guys that are going to have a chance to win.   
 If I can just keep going the way I've been going and hopefully keep hitting it the way I've been hitting it, we'll see where it stacks up after tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Because it is so key, can you share some of the things mentally that you've been working on?   
 JOHN ROLLINS: Yeah, I've just been trying not to tie shots together. I've kind of had a struggle this season with compounding mistakes. It seems like I kind of get down on my self pretty quick and things like that. Yeah, I expect so much out of my game and it hasn't been there so far.   
 I talked with Morris Pickens now at Sea Island and we've started working together the week in San Antonio. So it's new.   
 Just trying to, like I said, trying not to play off momentum, but stay in the moment and play the shot at hand. Whatever happens from there happens.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT