ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 29, 2011
John Rollins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Two very well played rounds of golf. Always nice to finish with a birdie at the ninth, too.   
 JOHN ROLLINS: Yeah, it's great to finish with a birdie. I played good for two days. Happy with the way I've been hitting the ball and had a lot of opportunities. I just feel very comfortable with where I am.  
  
  Q. You're always a good driver of the golf ball, but I thought you centered up a lot of irons and gave yourself a lot of looks?  
 JOHN ROLLINS: Yeah, yesterday I hit the ball extremely well especially with my irons. My distance control was right on, and I was hitting it right at the flags. Had a lot of putts that I could have made yesterday, but got a good round out of it. Today was not quite as sharp with the irons, but still hit some pretty good shots and had some opportunities. But got a 3-under out of it.  
  
  Q. You might be the only player in the field to birdie 15 both days.   
 JOHN ROLLINS: Yeah, that hole has been good to me. Hopefully it will stay that way for two more.  
  
  Q. Just two bogeys and really make the case that you should be bogey free in this tournament.   
 JOHN ROLLINS: Could be, yeah. I mean, it's going to happen. You're going to make mistakes and you're going to make bogeys throughout the week. So hopefully I've got my two out of the way, and we can see what happens.  
  
  Q. Talk about your round today?   
 JOHN ROLLINS: Yeah, I played good. 3-under par out here is a good score. The greens are pretty fast, getting faster. I don't want to say burn out, but they're drying up. It's down grain and it's hard to control shots into the green. The ball just kind of seems to want to release out. So it's tough to get close to some of the holes. But you can get some good scores if you're really sharp.  
  
  Q. Talk about that last hole there?   
 JOHN ROLLINS: Yeah, it was 172 yards into the breeze a little bit. It was pretty much a perfect 6-iron for me. Felt like it was playing about 182 to 185. I just kind of hit it up with the wind and let the wind do the work. It worked out great and had a two-footer to birdie for finish.  
  
  Q. Do you like where you're at right now?   
 JOHN ROLLINS: Yeah, absolutely. I played good for two days. I've hit the ball well and given myself a lot of opportunities. So I've got to be very pleased with where I am and we'll see how the week works out.   
  
  Q. You owned 15. You birdied again today.   
 JOHN ROLLINS: So far it's been kind. I don't want to jinx myself going into the weekend, but it's been good. I just go out and try to hit shots and see where they stack up. Fortunately I've gotten two on that hole.  
  
  Q. Did it play easier today?  
 JOHN ROLLINS: Well, the tee was up today versus where it was yesterday. So I think I hit a 3-iron into there yesterday, and today I hit an 8-iron. So it's playing much shorter. Pins on the front left. Kind of a little tricky little spot over there. So it's not easy, but I made a good putt today for birdie.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT