SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
November 8, 2014
John Rollins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MARK STEVENS:   We'd like to welcome John Rollins.   You got it to 14‑under, have a two‑shot lead going into the final round tomorrow at the Sanderson Farms Championship.   Talk about your round today and a couple of highlights. 
JOHN ROLLINS:   Yeah, I mean, today was a little bit more of a grind than the last couple days.   I mean, I didn't drive it quite as well today so I was playing out of the rough, which on this golf course is not fun.   But you know, I made some key putts to keep the round going at times.   I made some good putts for birdies and just kind of grinded out a 4‑under par out there to keep myself in position. 

Q.   Can you talk about what you expect to happen tomorrow?   Several of the players thought someone would go really low today. 
JOHN ROLLINS:   Well, I think it's all pin placement.   The way the golf course is going to be set up tomorrow is going to dictate some of the scores.   But you know, I think you saw some guys did play well and got themselves up close to where the lead is and got themselves in position.   There were definitely some good scores out there. 
You know, I think, yeah, this isn't a place that you're going to be able to just kind of sit back and shoot even par on and expect to coast in.   I definitely think that I'm going to have to stay aggressive, keep doing what I'm doing and hopefully shoot a few under or so and then just see where that ends up. 

Q.   What was your mindset going into today? 
JOHN ROLLINS:   You know, just to continue to do what I was doing.   I was driving it well, putting well.   I felt like I was being very patient.   Even if I had the ball out of play or if I made a bogey or whatever it was, I just kind of kept moving on and just taking each shot, each hole one at a time.   I tried to do that today.   I think I did a pretty good job with it.   Like I said, I didn't feel like I played as good today as I did the last two days, even though I got 4‑under par out of it.   I just think that I was able to make a few putts today to save for pars that kind of kept me in it. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
JOHN ROLLINS:   Yeah, I felt confident.   I just think my rhythm was just a little bit off today, wasn't quite as in sync.   I thought my iron play was pretty good.   When I hit the ball in the fairway I thought I hit good iron shots into the greens which set up some birdies and things like that.   I thought iron‑wise I was okay.   The driver just a little bit off, but we'll hit some balls in a little bit here and try to dial it in.

Q.   How were the conditions today overall?
JOHN ROLLINS:   I thought they were perfect.   We had very little wind.   The temperature was very comfortable.   The golf course was in fantastic shape.   The greens were rolling nice.   You know, yeah, I thought everything was, as you say, kind of suited for low scores. 
I think the guys mostly played pretty well. 

Q.   You've had some struggles in the past.   Where are you right now?
JOHN ROLLINS:   Well, I feel pretty good.   Obviously when you're in the lead you've got to feel pretty good about what you're doing.   Last year is a year I'd like to forget.   It's the first time in 13 or 14 years I ever lost my card.   I'm playing out of the past champions status. 
A lot can change in one week.   But the big thing tomorrow is I can't get ahead of myself.   I can't start thinking about where I am and what's going on and status and all this sort of stuff.   I've just got to play golf, and that's what we're going to try to do and try to enjoy it.   I think that's the key is just have fun with it, enjoy the opportunity and where you are and just see what happens. 
MARK STEVENS:   Thanks for your time, John, and good luck tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT