WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 20, 2010
John Rollins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. John, you follow-up a 6-under par round with a 5-under par round. You're at 11-under, one off the lead. Great playing.  
 JOHN ROLLINS: Yeah. It was ugly early and two over-par early in my round and just kind of settled down and hit some good slots and played some putts and got on a hot stretch there, birdied like 17, 18, made the turn, birdied 1, 2 and 4 and just kind of, you know, started to get the momentum rolling and managed to turn it round and get a good round out of it.  
  
  Q. Was that because of your early mechanics or your early feeling or the way this golf course is set-up where there's a lot of birdies out there but there are some holes will jump up and grab you when you hit a bad shot?  
 JOHN ROLLINS: The fairways are pretty narrow. The rough doesn't look severe but the ball can settle down in there pretty deep and this bermuda rough, you can just get nothing. So I was -- wasn't hitting it great early on and just was kind of frustrated with it and then, like I said, just kind of settled in there and just told myself to stay patient and lot of birdie opportunities with the greens being this soft and managed to get it going, got some putts to fall and we got it going back in the right direction.  
  
  Q. It looked like down the stretch you were just laser accurate with your irons coming in.  
 JOHN ROLLINS: Yeah. I felt pretty good with the way I've been hitting ball so I think that was a big, big plus for me to slowdown and be patient because I knew that my irons had been pretty good, my distance control has been pretty good so far and, you know, just one of those things if you do that on the way this golf course is right now, if you get your distance control down on line, you're going to have a lot of close putts for birdie.  
  
  Q. Anything to work on tonight or going to get some dinner and relax?   
 JOHN ROLLINS: I probably work on some putting still. I've been putting good the last couple days and like to keep that going and really it's just kind of a cool-down session, maybe go have dinner with my family and friends and just relax and get ready for a good weekend.  
  
  Q. John, talk about, first of all, 5-under, you know, good two days. Being 11-under going into the weekend.  
 JOHN ROLLINS: It's fine. I'd like to be 12. I'll take where I am. I didn't get off to a good start and then, you know, just kind of turned it around, made some putts, saw some good shots coming back and managed to just get on a pretty hot roll there on the last two holes of my front-9, which was the back-9 and carried it into the front. I think I shot 5-under on the front-9 to get back to, you know, in contention where I want to be.  
  
  Q. How hard is that to bounce back sometimes in the middle of a round when you have that rough start to not get down on yourself and keep it doing?  
 JOHN ROLLINS: It's tough, especially on a golf course where you know guys are shooting low numbers. After shooting 6-under yesterday and you come out and I'm already 6 shots out of the lead before I even tee off, then I go out and I'm 2-over through like my first five holes or whatever it is, it's hard to sometimes stop and just be patient and tell yourself, you're okay, just settle down and I did that.   
 I was a little frustrated at myself but I kind of had a little pep talk there on the par 5 on 15 and just told myself there's a lot of opportunities out here and just let it all come back to you. It did. Got a good round out of it.  
  
  Q. How important is it to have position going into the weekend?  
 JOHN ROLLINS: It's huge. You never want to be out of position. So to be one shot back -- you know, I feel like I should be, you know, tied for the lead at the worse but, you know, I'm only one shot back. Anything can happen.   
 I think it's still going to be a shoot-out this weekend and I haven't even really looked at the weather forecast. I don't know what we're looking at there.   
 But if the conditions stay the way they are now, you know, as I said yesterday and today, guys are firing at flags. You're going to see a lot of birdies and a lot of close opportunities for birdies.  
  
  Q. Members here say you have to use all 14 clubs in the bag. How many did you use today?  
 JOHN ROLLINS: I used a pretty good number of them. I would say yeah, I think I actually used 13. I don't think I hit my 5-iron if I recall. I could be wrong. My caddy may correct me on that. I don't recall hitting a 5-iron today. Other than that, I think I hit them all.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT