WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 19, 2010
John Rollins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DOUG MILNE: Okay. John Rollins, thanks for joining us for a few minutes after Round 1 of the Wyndham Championship. Great round, 6-under 64.   
 Just some comments on the round, the course and just kind of obviously you got to be feeling good after the first round here.  
 JOHN ROLLINS: Yeah. I'm very happy with the way I played. I hit the ball well. Made some putts which was a welcome change from the way it's kind of been going this week.   
 The golf course was good. Obviously the greens are soft, little slower than what we normally play on but, overall, it was pretty much attack mode out there. I think that's the mindset that just about every player has, you know, after the practice rounds and all, realizing that the greens are pretty soft and you can afford to fly the ball right there by the flags and it's not going to get away from you.  
 So with that, I think you're going to see a lot of low scores, lot of close shots into the greens, some good opportunities for birdies. But, overall, very happy.  
 DOUG MILNE: How have you felt about your game coming into the week, you're 79th -- you're safe for at least one or two of the FedExCup events. How have you felt about your game coming into the week?  
 JOHN ROLLINS: It hadn't been bad. I felt like I've kind of showed some signs of, you know, getting back to where I want to be and playing the kind of golf that I like to play but, again, my putter has been so bad this year that it's really it's been my Achilles heel.   
 The days I hit the ball well I'm not making enough putts to shoot the low scores or anything else and just made a change today, this week for the first time in a long time, and just a fresh look and it's worked out well today and we'll hopefully see if it will keep the hot streak going for the next few days.  
 DOUG MILNE: Take a few questions. Helen.  
  
  Q. What are you doing differently with your putting?  
 JOHN ROLLINS: You know, it's just -- I think just trying to putt, just trying to see the ball, you know, just go in the hole, kind of free everything up and, you know, it's more of I think trying to get away from a lot of the mechanical side of it.   
 I think that, you know, I've been harping on myself so much about am I starting it on my line, does my stroke look good, what am I doing, whatever. You kind of get away from the feel and you know what the ball is going to do on the greens and now I've been really trying to focus on a point that I want the ball to enter the hole and kind of trace it back with a line, and it's almost like I'm just starting to see the ball rolling on the green better than I have.  
 So, you know, we'll see what happens. And today it worked. It's felt pretty good. Last week I wasn't in the PGA so I kind of started to work on that at home and everything else and it felt pretty good, was showing some signs, and this week it's been the same. I've been feeling pretty good on the putting green and the practice rounds and today I rolled the ball well again.  
  
  Q. Is it almost easier to play this week because you don't have FedExCup pressure?  
 JOHN ROLLINS: Yeah. I'm obviously not worried about making it in the FedExCup but, you know, at the same time, it's an important tournament because you know, a win this week, all of a sudden jumps you way higher in the FedExCup going into the start of it rather than being 79th like I am right now.  
 So I want to go as deep as I can and all the way into the Tour Championship and I know that the FedExCup, the points are much stronger so there's a lot of movement that can be made just in the first week alone, and I'm just trying to get my game ready for that and yeah, the pressure is off as far as making that but, at the same time, I want -- the pressure is still on to win and to get up as high as we can.  
  
  Q. Obvious question, how did the weather conditions affect things today?  
 JOHN ROLLINS: Well, it wasn't bad. We got some spots of rain. Couple times it rained pretty decent but was never anything uncomfortable, never anything that really kind of threw you out of a routine or anything.   
 You weren't kind of darting under the umbrella and hit it real quick and get back under. It wasn't any of that. You know, be interesting to see what the weather does the rest of the day, the rest of the week. I think they're still calling for rain pretty much everyday.  
 But this heat and humidity and all we've got, it's kind of normal this time of year, this part of the country. We'll just take it as it comes and -- but today so far for our wave, I don't really think that guys would say it's really had any affect on play.  
 DOUG MILNE: Okay. John, real quick, before we cut you loose, if you wouldn't mind running us through your birdies and giving us some clubs and yards as best you recall.  
 JOHN ROLLINS: Okay. I may not remember many of them. No. 3, we hit a 7-iron. I think it was playing like 168, couple yards uphill. We hit a 7-iron in there probably I'd say maybe eight, ten feet and made that birdie there on 3.  
 Then 8, we hit it -- I think we had 108 to the hole and I hit kind of a middle, like a little gap wedge to about ten inches.  
 No. 9, the bogey, hit it long and left over the green with a 9-iron. Chipped it up to probably five or so feet, five and a half feet and missed that for par. I made the bogey there.  
 Then on 10, hit a 7-iron from 168, again, to probably I'd say maybe 12 to 15 feet, rolled that one in.  
 13 -- I'm trying to think of these holes again. 13, I hit the same gap wedge I hit earlier. We had 115 this time. Hit that about ten feet behind the hole, made that putt.   
 15, the par 5, knocked it on in two. Probably had, I'd say, probably 35, 30 feet for eagle. Two-putted.  
 16, hit a 9-iron in there about 12 feet just below the hole and made that putt for birdie.  
 Then 18 I hit a 6 iron to, you know, whatever that may have been 12, 15 feet as well.  
 DOUG MILNE: All right. Congratulations on a great round. Keep it up.  
 JOHN ROLLINS: Thank you. Appreciate it.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT