RENO-TAHOE OPEN
July 15, 2010
John Rollins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. 1-under, 71. Looked like you had things going early and then just had trouble getting things started on the back side.   
 JOHN ROLLINS: Yeah, I played a lot better than I scored today. I mean, I feel like I should be at least 5-under par right now for the day.   
 Had it going early. Had a hiccup there on 6 with a pretty poor three-putt; good look on 7 and missed it; made a good par on 8; and then 3-putted 9 for par; then, you know, bogeying 11 with 235 in or something was kind of a tough to swallow, too. St kind of kept going and hat it 2-Under. And then 16, just a poor chip, you know.   
 Just couldn't get the putts to go in. Seemed like the first five holes I was rolling the ball well, and then all of a sudden I just couldn't make 'em. We were battling, and it was just one of those deals.  
 Had a great look on 17 for birdie, probably four feet or so, and missed it. So it was just a day where I feel like I left four or five shots on the golf course. Looking at the leaderboard, it would have put me right on top or tied or something, you know, for the morning wave and in good position.   
 Instead we're 1-under. Hopefully they don't go too low this afternoon and we can get out here tomorrow and have a good one and get back in it.  
  
  Q. That being said, you said nobody is really going crazy so far this morning. If you could just real quick talk about going forward into tomorrow's round after being 1-under today.   
 JOHN ROLLINS: Yeah, I mean, I played well. I hit the ball well. I hit the ball well enough to shoot, like I said, 4- or 5-, 6-under par pretty easy. I just didn't make the putts and convert on opportunities, and I made some silly mistakes. That's something that you really can't do if you want to contend to try to repeat a win.  
 Last year on Friday I had the great round, so hopefully the golf gods will be the same with me tomorrow and we'll get another good one tomorrow and get back in the tournament and see what the weekend holds.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT