THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 7, 2009
John Rollins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Can you just talk a little bit about the day and the golf course, how it's playing, how you feel you're doing out there?  
 JOHN ROLLINS: Well, I feel good. 68 around here is a good score any day. The wind is not too much of a factor out there right now. The greens are fairly receptive. I think that's part of the reason that the scores are probably as low as they are.   
 But overall with the day I'm very pleased with the way I hit it and what I got out of it.   
  
  Q. Did you feel good coming in? Do you feel like you might have a good PLAYERS Championship?  
 JOHN ROLLINS: Yeah, I felt pretty good. I felt like I had a good couple days of practice coming into the week. I feel like I had been doing some pretty good things with my game. New Orleans I hit the ball well, and I played pretty well there, I just couldn't make the putts. Last week, you know, I hit it okay but still struggled on the greens again. Worked on it Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday here, my chipping and putting, and today was a pretty good day on the greens and continued to hit the ball well.   
  
  Q. Did you find something that -- did you work out something?   
 JOHN ROLLINS: You know, I'd like to say I did, but after four days I'll maybe be able to answer that a little bit better. It's one of those things, just trying to work on my path and my stroke, trying to get the ball to roll a little bit better, more on my line and things like that. You know, like I said, my practice sessions, I started to feel like that was coming around. I felt like I did a pretty good job of it today on the course, so we'll just have to wait and see what the rest of the week has.  
  
  Q. Were you working by yourself or with your teacher?  
 JOHN ROLLINS: I talked on the phone to my instructor Randy Smith about some problems I feel like I've been having. Neale Smith, my mental coach, is here with me this week, and he has a good knowledge of everything and how my game is and what my tendencies are, so he's been lending a hand there and getting that second set of eyes on me to just let me know what he sees or things that I may need to work on.   
 So I have had some help on the phone and then with Neale here.   
  
  Q. Any serious highlights out there today or great saves?   
 JOHN ROLLINS: You know, not really. I played pretty solid. You know, I made a pretty long putt there on 5 for birdie, probably I'd say 25 to 30 feet. So those are the kind of putts you have to make to try to keep the momentum on get that little extra shot. So that was really the biggest thing. Overall I just played pretty steady and just took what the golf course gave me.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT