SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
November 7, 2014
John Rollins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about today.   You were swinging really good out there, and the putter was working good, too. 
JOHN ROLLINS: Yeah, it's been a good two days.   I've swung well, as you said, putted well.   Those are two key ingredients to playing good golf.   It's been two fun days and hopefully we can have two more.

Q.   What do you think of this golf course?
JOHN ROLLINS:   Yeah, it's a good course.   I like it.   I haven't played Annandale in a long time and came this year to the new course, and I think the players have received it well, and I'm enjoying it.

Q.   And you're in contention to win.   That's got to feel great heading into the weekend. 
JOHN ROLLINS:   Yeah, it's a good feeling.   It's been a while.   I haven't played as good as I would like last year I guess now, but everything can change with one week, so we're enjoying it and have two more good days.

Q.   What is it with the veterans, you and David Toms and some of the guys that have been around are playing this course well. 
JOHN ROLLINS:   Yeah, you know, I think it's one of those kinds of courses.   You just keep it in play and give yourself opportunities, you make some putts, you just never know what'll happen.   Just keep grinding, keep going at it, and that's what we've done. 

Q.   Quick start, three straight birdies to get things going, hit 16 of 18 greens.   How solid was the day here?
JOHN ROLLINS:   Yeah, I'm very pleased.   To get off to that kind of start is always great, birdieing the first three, birdied four out of the first five, and really just kind of helped me relax a little bit and just kind of get in the rhythm of the round.   I hit the ball well, made some good putts and put myself in a good position.

Q.   Coming off a bit of a lackluster season with regards to your previous standards.   What's clicked here?
JOHN ROLLINS:   Well, so far I've putted well.   I've driven the ball well.   The last year or so I've driven the ball terrible, and it's really put me kind of behind the 8‑ball early, and I seem to be really grinding on every shot to just give myself an opportunity.   I haven't been able to attack golf courses when you're playing from the rough.   The first two days I've driven the ball well, and as I said, I've made putts, and that's the ingredient to good play. 

Q.   To follow up on that, why are you driving it better?   What have you done, anything different? 
JOHN ROLLINS:   Well, you know, my caddie on Wednesday just sort of made a suggestion of I'm swinging with a little less effort I feel like.   I feel like I'm still putting enough effort behind it because I'm getting the ball out there far enough, but I don't know if I fell into a trap of trying to hit the ball too far and just kind of got out of the rhythm of my swing and whatever.   It's hard to say.   But we just kind of tried to dial it back, kind of feel like an 80 percent mentality, and it's really just kind of fed along back into my irons and everything.   That's been just the approach that we've taken off the tee, and when you see the ball going where you're looking, that obviously breeds confidence, and you just kind of keep running with that, and that's what's happened.

Q.   How easy is it to get into one of those funks where you don't even realize you're doing it, but all of a sudden you feel like you're swinging the same way but you're not. 
JOHN ROLLINS:   It's easy.   The competition out here is so strong, and the slightest miscue or the slightest imperfection in your swing or kind of what you're doing can really put you down and out against the competition we compete against week in and week out against out here now.   With that, probably me trying to force the issue, I've always been known as a great driver of the ball, and when that kind of leaves you, when you lose your security blanket, that's a tough thing to do, and it kind of puts a panic in the rest of your game.   I think that's what I fell into, but hopefully we can ride this thought that we're going on this weekend and have a good weekend, and we'll just see what happens.

Q.   It looked like the greens were moving pretty fast by the end of the day. 
JOHN ROLLINS:   Yeah, I thought they were quicker today than we were yesterday.   We got here Monday and the greens were lightning fast, and I think they had to slow them down possibly just to get them back to tournament speed and then kind of go from there, but they were definitely quicker today than they were yesterday, and I would expect to see a lot of the same over the weekend.   They're rolling great, and if you get it on‑line and obviously with not too much speed, you're going to make a lot of putts. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
JOHN ROLLINS:   It was just a little quick off the ball.   My rhythm just got a little off there, and when that happens, I just get a little bit out of sync like at No.11, but other than that I've just been able to kind of settle into my rhythm, and we're seeing the ball fly relatively straight and where we're looking.

Q.   You came right back on 18. 
JOHN ROLLINS:   Yeah, hit a good one on 18, then hit a good second shot in there and almost made the putt for birdie.   It was a short‑term memory, which was good.   That's what you need in this game.

Q.   How far was that par putt on 17?
JOHN ROLLINS:   I'd say it was probably nine or ten feet. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT