THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 7, 2009
John Rollins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. 2-under par 68, how tough was it coming in? 
 JOHN ROLLINS: It was not quite as tough as yesterday. They had the tees up and the pins were up, so the holes were playing a little shorter. Still, it's brutal shots, 15 and 17, they get your attention quick. I didn't know what to say to my ball on 17, so I just let the gallery talk to it and hope that it ended up in a good spot. 
 It's tough. You've got to just suck it up and just hit golf shots. 

 Q. Certainly the work you've been putting in is now starting to show its benefits. As you go into the final round, any thoughts come into your mind about how you are going to approach the final round?
 JOHN ROLLINS: Not really. Nothing different than the last three days. The course is tough. It's going to be tough tomorrow. Who knows what the wind is going to do tomorrow. It could blow harder and it could maybe blow less. 
 This is a golf course you have to hit fairways and hit greens and give yourself a lot of opportunities, and just survive the last few holes. 
 So hopefully we can get off to a good start tomorrow and see where we stack up coming down the stretch.

 Q. Would you take 8- or 9-under right now?
 JOHN ROLLINS: Yes, I would sleep really well, knowing 8-under or 9-under and if I didn't have to play? I would be out of here. 

 Q. Talk about the swings on the leaderboard. 
 JOHN ROLLINS: It's tough out there. I wouldn't say there are a lot of birdies, but there's just a lot of drama coming down the stretch, 17 and 16 and even here at 18. You've got to hit three good shots to set up a birdie, and it's just been a lot of fun to play this course. You don't have to shoot 7-under par to keep up the pace. You can shoot 2-under and move up. 
 Obviously you want to be ahead and in the lead. It honestly doesn't matter; it's just being in the hunt coming Sunday afternoon down the back nine to have a chance to win, that's what we are out here to do. Hopefully, you know, San Diego, I learned a little bit from that, and tomorrow, we'll see what happens. Hopefully I can build on it and just play a little bit better than I did there and come out on top. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT