BUICK OPEN
June 29, 2008
John Rollins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You got it going around the sixth hole.   
 JOHN ROLLINS: Yeah, I made a bomb there, really from nowhere to kind of get me started. Gave it right back on the par 5, which I wasn't too pleased with that, and then I just kind of managed to start rolling some putts in and started hitting good and giving myself a lot of good looks and just kind of kept going in.   
 It's softer today. It's been soft all week, but it's a little softer today, so the greens are spinning a little bit more. I felt early on, it was tough to get the ball close to the hole. You have to be some perfect with where you land it with the right amount of spin and everything to get the ball close to the hole. I kind of really wasn't doing a good job of that. Spun a couple off the greens and when I had scoring opportunities -- but as the round went on, I just kept hitting good shots and luckily they got close enough to the hole and I made the putts.   
  
  Q. The low scores, do you see this trend continuing?  
 JOHN ROLLINS: Depends on the weather. If it stays like it is right now, the greens are soft and the holes are short on the back nine so, there are a lot of scoring opportunities. I would see the guys definitely making a few coming in.   
 But you know, you never know. You get pressure and guys get a little tight and start trying to press a little bit.   
  
  Q. What will you do now?  
 JOHN ROLLINS: Relax and watch it on TV and see how the guys play and hope for the best, but I'm sure it will be just a little short. But all in all, a good week.   
  
  Q. What's it like when you make birdie after birdie --  
 JOHN ROLLINS: You're out here to win and not worried about the money or anything like that. Just out here to win golf tournaments and if you play good, the money takes care of itself. Just stay focused on what you're doing and hit good putts, and if they go in, great; and if they don't, then at least you did the best you could.   
 I played good two of the four days here, 64 and a 65. I would like to have the first and third rounds back, so all in all, very pleased.  
  
  Q. Going into the day, did you see yourself possibly making a run at this?   
 JOHN ROLLINS: Yeah, I did this last year. I made the cut right on the number and shot 10-under on the weekend and finished fifth. You know, it's just that kind of golf course; if you get it going, you can kind of just make a charge and then the birdies can just come, as many as you want. They just seem to keep going in.   
 So you know, I like that I had a chance to at least get close to the lead, but we'll wait and see what happens.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT