NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 16, 2008
John Rollins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Talk about you're like 30 pounds light now.   
 JOHN ROLLINS:  Yeah, about 30, 35 lighter.  Decided that for my career and longevity of my career, I needed to shed some pounds and was able to do it this off-season.  Feel good, so hopefully it will kind of filter into my game a little bit.   
  
  Q.  What's been working for you this week?   
 JOHN ROLLINS:  I've putted pretty good this week.  Missed a few today coming down the stretch but overall I feel like I've rolled the ball well on the greens and I've just been patient.  I kept grinding it out.  I haven't really hit it the greatest.  My irons have been fairly weak up until today, I think I hit it a little bit better.   
 But I just keep being patient and hitting good chip shots and grinding over the putts and so far the putter has been fairly kind.   
  
  Q.  Depending what happens, you'll be four, five, maybe six back going into tomorrow; you have to be aggressive tomorrow, basically, is that your mentality?   
 JOHN ROLLINS:  Yeah, I got off to a good start today and that will help tomorrow.  I was 4-under through seven and really missed a good look there on seven to be 5-under through seven but that's what it's going to take tomorrow.   
 I'm going to have to come out -- we don't know what the conditions will be, but I'm sure the golf course is going to be playing difficult.  We've just got to stay patient.  You know, I'm not trying to shoot a certain number.  I know I've got to go out and play good and just give myself as many opportunities as I can.   
  
  Q.  Haven't you played well on the West Coast the last few years?   
 JOHN ROLLINS:  The last few years I've played pretty good.  This year it's been a little slower start but it's not from a lack of effort or being prepared or anything else.  Just, it's golf.  I felt good coming out for the start of the season at the Hope and just the scoring hasn't been there and things just haven't really clicked.   
 Then this week, I just kept doing what I was doing and right now, we're having a good week.   
  
  Q.  Why did you make the decision to shed some pounds?   
 JOHN ROLLINS:  You know, I had to do it to feel better.  I just wasn't feeling that great, you know, about myself and everything else, and I just thought it was a change that needed to be made.  I just owned up to it and decided to commit to it, and I feel a whole lot better.   
  
  Q.  Where does this course rank on your favorites that you play out here?   
 JOHN ROLLINS:  Top five, for sure.  It's one of the best we play.  It just that old, classic golf course that gets your attention on every shot.   
 The fairways have just enough pitch on them that hitting shots into the green are difficult or hard to get it close to the hole.  And if you do miss-fire and hit it in one of these bunkers, they are not the easiest bunkers to get it up-and-down.  It's just a great, old, classic course that I really enjoy playing.   
  
  Q.  Can you put pressure on the leaders maybe from a group or two groups ahead; they are going to be watching you, basically.   
 JOHN ROLLINS:  Yeah, if you come out and get hot and make three or four birdies right off the bat, you never know.  They make a bogey or two, that's a five- or six-shot swing, so it can happen.  It's golf and it's a strange game, but I can only control myself so I'm just going to play and be patient and see what I can shoot.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT