ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 16, 2007
John Rollins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 JOHN ROLLINS:  Yeah, I played great today, 5-under, no bogeys, and just one of those things.  You know, I hit the ball real solid.  I kept the ball in play and gave myself a lot of opportunities.  Left a few out there, but you're going to do that in conditions like this.  Just happy with the way I played. 

 Q.  Overall this year, playing as consistent as you ever have in your career, talk about your year so far. 
 JOHN ROLLINS:  I think at the end of last year, you know, I just really -- I really sat down and analyzed, you know, what I was doing wrong and where I was weakest.  You know, my teacher and I just kind of came up with an idea from stats what I needed to work on, mostly the short game, and we've done that, and that's kind of bailed me out when I haven't had my ball-striking.  And then when I hit the ball well, everything else takes care of itself. 
 So if I just hit my irons solid and I'm driving the ball well then everything happens.  But if I'm not, it's nice to have that short game that you can fall back on and bail you out, get you out of a jam.  So far this year, that's what it's done. 

 Q.  Just a matter of having more experience where every year you're out here -- you can understand the game a little bit better and know yourself a little better? 
 JOHN ROLLINS:  Yeah, I think experience helps, knowing the golf courses, you know how they are going to be set up.  You know typically where the pins are going to be and everything else. 
 I think now just being able to -- I feel like I prepare better for tournaments now.  Whereas before, I was just kind of going through the motions.  I would show up on a Tuesday and feel like I clock in, it's my practice round today and just go have fun and play. 
 Now with the help of my teacher, Todd Anderson and Morris Pickens, my mental coach -- Morris, the mental coach, he's more involved with preparation.  He helps me, you know, figure out a strategy or how to spend my off-weeks at home, practicing and getting ready for the next event.  I think that's an element that I've never had.  I think that's what carrying on in my good play. 

 Q.  Feel good about the weekend? 
 JOHN ROLLINS:  Yeah, I feel good.  I've got to keep doing what I'm doing.  It's going to be a tough golf course.  I think the wind may blow tomorrow, whatever this front was that came through here.  So the wind is going to blow and it's going to be a test of patience, and we'll just try to hit as many fairways and greens as we can and see what happens. 

 Q.  Surprised we're done today? 
 JOHN ROLLINS:  Yeah, from what the forecast looked like today, I figured it would be sitting in the clubhouse all day and maybe go back and just in and out the whole time.  We got lucky. 
 So the golf gods are shining down on us so far and I think we're going to be good for the weekend so it should shape up to be a fun tournament.. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT