CHRYSLER CLASSIC OF GREENSBORO
October 5, 2006
John Rollins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOE CHEMYCZ:  We welcome John Rollins also an 8 under par 64 today.  John, 17 of 18 greens, 12 of 14 fairways.

Let's talk a little bit about your day.  Obviously you hit the ball pretty good.
JOHN ROLLINS:  Yeah, I did.  I hit the ball good all day.  One little mishap on 17.  You know, all in all I played at the time steady.

I kept the ball in position, gave myself, obviously, 17 birdie opportunities.  Drove the ball great and then, more importantly, I made putts.  Something that I really haven't done, you know, the last couple of months.  I've been hitting the ball good and just not making the putts that you expect to make.

I went down to Sea Island on Saturday and worked with Mike Shannon a putting guy and just picked up a few pointers and so far we're running with it.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  What pointers?
JOHN ROLLINS:  When I went down there, I have a tendency to kind of get over top of the ball, my head too far forward and my shoulders are way open compared to my stance, so he squared me up, got my head centered in my stance and, you know, what that did is kept me more connected through my stroke and made me stroke it down the line better and, you know, felt like I was just learning the game when he was doing it, and spent, you know, most of my time preparing this week just on the putting green, around the chipping green and today it paid off, rolled the ball beautifully.

The ones that didn't go in were right on the edges or lipping out or whatever.  It's fun to see it rolling on line.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Questions?

Q    John, have you played with John Daly often and what is that like?
JOHN ROLLINS:  I wouldn't say often, but I played with him, you know, a number of times.  Played a couple practice rounds with him at Augusta the two years I played there.

I enjoy playing with John.  I played with John the Saturday in 2002 that    before I won the Canadian Open and it's just    something about him, I guess for me, that just kind of keeps you relaxed.

He's easy to play with.  He talks to you.  You have fun when you're out there playing and just, you know, rather than some guys I guess you kind of    it's so much business and you know they don't talk and you just    you kind of get out there and you're all by yourself.

It's okay, but it's nice to have that mix, you know, when you can kind of relax and have fun.

Q    John, you talked a little bit about your putting.  Is that something week by week you lose whatever correct instruction you had or is this something entirely new for you?
JOHN ROLLINS:  Well, the instruction I got on Saturday was entirely new for me.  You know, my teacher Todd Anderson, who is at Sea Island as well, him and I been working for nine years and we've always kind of patched things together to make do for a week.

If I'm not putting well, we'll work on a few things that may work for that week or kind of bandage it altogether, hang in there for a week or two and I go right back to the same old habits.

With this, you know, I feel like if I continue to work on the things that he had me do, I'll become more consistent over time and, you know, week in, week out be a good putter.

I feel that that's one part of my game that needs to improve.  I feel like I hit the ball well enough, I just don't quite make enough putts that you see like Tiger and Phil and those guys making day in and day out.

Q    Can you take us through what you were thinking after that bogey on 17 and getting back a birdie on 18?
JOHN ROLLINS:  Well, you know, I was disappointed to hit a tee shot that I hit on 17.  I just hit a poor shot.  Didn't get it up and down.  Almost chipped it in for par but I wasn't really    I was disappointed more with the tee shot than just making bogey.

I still was 7 under par.  Knew I had a good round going.  You can't win today so I knew that even if I made par on 18 I was still in a good position, you know, but then I stepped up and hit a good tee shot and hit a good second shot, just went a little further than I wanted it to and then, you know, again it was just the same type of thing I did all day, I rolled the ball great, right on my line and happened to go in.

So, really, you know, just disappointed with the tee shot on 17 but didn't let it get to me.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  How long was it?
JOHN ROLLINS:  I think they said 30, 32 feet.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Other questions?  Take us through birdie putts starting at 1.
JOHN ROLLINS:  No. 1 I guess I had probably about a 12 footer.  Made that.

Let's see.  No. 4 I had about a 10 footer.  6, I hit in there close, probably three feet.  7, probably another 10, 11 feet.

9, chipped it up to about oh, I'd say maybe seven or eight feet.  11, 15 feet.  13, I 2 putted so my second putt was about three feet.  First putt was on the back of the green, I'd say probably closer to 40 feet.

15, I 2 putted again from probably about 35 feet, you know, just a tap in.  And then 17 I hit a 3 iron.  We had like, I think it was 227 to the hole and I hit a 3 iron which I think was a little bit too much club and came over it a little bit and chipped it across the green just off the edge and almost chipped it in for par, had a tap in for bogey and the putt on 18 was about 32 feet.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Other questions?  Alright.  John, thank you.  Play well.
JOHN ROLLINS:  Thanks.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT