THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 24, 2006
John Rollins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
Most people forecasted 25, 30 miles per hour winds.  What were the conditions like?
JOHN ROLLINS:  Not too bad this morning.  It just started to blow about the last five or six holes, but there really wasn't much out there.  If it doesn't pick up, the scores, you can still get a good number out there.  If it starts to blow like they've talked, then it's going to be fun this afternoon.
Q.  It's kind of doing what it's supposed to, when you're early late, late early, things are evening out a little bit?
JOHN ROLLINS:  Yeah, I guess.  They had pretty good conditions yesterday morning and then the rain came in for us in the afternoon.  It wasn't brutal out there yesterday afternoon, so if it stays like this I'd say it's been a pretty even wave.
Q.  When you look up and you see Vijay is at 5, Ernie is at 5, Tiger at 4 and then Furyk and Love, and it's this championship, just a big one, does it mean more to be up with those guys in a week like this after two days?
JOHN ROLLINS:  Sure, I mean, this is the best field we play against all year and the best field in golf.  You know, I mean, I consider myself a good enough player to compete with those guys.  I'm pretty comfortable with where I am.

I let a few get away from me out there today, but we've still got two long rounds of golf to play, and hopefully this wind will pick up and keep the scores    so they don't run away and hide.  We'll just see and see what happens.
Q.  Was the golf course more difficult?  Fred Klauk was saying he thought it would be more difficult today than it was yesterday.
JOHN ROLLINS:  Maybe a little bit.  It's still fairly soft but not quite as soft as it was yesterday.  With that said, it is just a little more difficult.  Some of the pins are a little better than they were yesterday, and I'm sure they'll continue to get harder as the week goes on.
Q.  You've had success at this golf course before.  What is it about here that you like?
JOHN ROLLINS:  It's the kind of golf course where you don't have to go out and shoot 6 under or whatever just to keep pace typically.  You have to keep your ball in the fairway, keep the ball on the green, give yourself a lot of opportunities and stay patient.  I have found over the last few years that those are the style courses that I tend to play well on and that I like to play on, so hopefully this week will pan out for me and I'll have a good solid weekend and we'll see what happens.
Q.  Can you just walk us through your round a little bit?  I know you had a couple birdies on your first nine.  Up until 9 right here you pretty much parred out on the back.
JOHN ROLLINS:  Yeah, I got off to a decent start.  I actually three putted 12 for bogey, then I came right back and birdied 13 and 14 to get me going again, then birdied 16 there to keep it going.

I made the turn, ended up birdieing 2 to get to 3 under for the day, and then all of a sudden I just started not to hit my irons that well and was kind of struggling around making pars, and made a great par save on No. 7, and then unfortunately here just kind of, I guess, made a little mistake there hitting it just a little left of the flag and long and unfortunately didn't get a very good lie, didn't get it up and down, made bogey on a par 5, which you can't afford to do.  Just kind of stalled there late in the day.  I'll go work on it this afternoon and hopefully tomorrow we can keep it going the whole round.
Q.  As of right now you're, I think, two off the pace.  As of right now where do you stand?  I think this is the first cut you're going to make here.
JOHN ROLLINS:  Yeah, first time making the cut here.  It all depends on the weather.  I'm sure by the end of the day I'll be I would say five, six probably back out of the lead.  Those guys, Davis and Furyk, I mean, Furyk obviously lives here, plays here a lot; Davis actually loves this place, won here a couple times.  I would say if this wind doesn't blow like they've predicted it to blow, they'll probably go out and shoot a pretty good number and I'll find myself four or five back coming into the weekend.
Q.  How do you prepare for the weekend, depending on how far back you may be?
JOHN ROLLINS:  You just have to come out and hit fairways and greens.  That's the thing about this tournament.  The weekend is going to be tougher.  The pins will be trickier and the greens will be faster.  I think the weather is supposed to be good on the weekend.  It's going to be a patience test, and the guy that can stay patient and just keep his ball in play is the guy that's probably going to do pretty well.
Q.  Do you start to make more chances on the weekend depending on where you stand?
JOHN ROLLINS:  It depends on what happens.  It depends on    I would say no.  It just depends on what happens and what the golf course is giving you.  You know, you can't go out and force this golf course to give you birdies.  You just have to go out and take what it gives you, and when you get the good opportunities hopefully you can make the putts and hit the shots when you're there.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT