CHRYSLER CLASSIC OF GREENSBORO
September 29, 2005
John Rollins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  John, thank you for joining us in the media center here at the Chrysler Classic of Greensboro.  Good start to the week, nice solid round, no bogeys.  Just talk about the morning, maybe the conditions and the good start.

JOHN ROLLINS:  Yeah, the weather's great.  I mean, the golf course is in good shape.  You know, it's nice to come out early and have fresh greens for the first nine holes.

The wind kind of picked up I guess halfway through there for a while.  It's continuing to blow out there now.  It should be I'd say pretty challenging this afternoon.  You know, overall, it was a good day.  I had a good time out there.  Got a good round out of it.

JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Questions, please.
Q.  Can you go over your card?

JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Started on 10.

JOHN ROLLINS:  Started on 10.  Made par on 10, 11, 12.

13, hit it just short of the green there in two, chipped it up, made about a 10 footer, for my first birdie.

Then I went all the way around to all pars.

Then on 18, I hit a sand wedge from about 115 to about two feet and made that one.

Birdied No. 2.  I hit it just short and right of the green, kind of pin was way back left up on top, hit just a chip and run up on top and made a putt from about, I guess, maybe eight or 10 feet again there for birdie.

6, I hit a pitching wedge to about I guess another 10 footer, made that one.

Then 9, I knocked it on the front right part of the green in two and 2 putted from I guess that was probably 45 feet.
Q.  You left yourself quite it bit on No. 9?

JOHN ROLLINS:  It might have been three feet, I would say.  If I had to guess, it was about a 3 footer.
Q.  Can you kind of assess your season, what you like and have not liked about it.

JOHN ROLLINS:  Well, I like the fact that I'm going to at least have a job next year.  You know, I feel like I've done a lot of good things, but I haven't really gotten a lot out of what I've done, if that makes any sense at all.

You know, I've played well at times.  And the times I was in contention going into Sunday, it seemed like I just kind of fizzled out a little bit, would start the round in the top 10, then finish like 15th or something like that.  Those types of things, you know, they really add up through the course of a year.

Overall, I'm not too disappointed.  I would like to squeeze out a win.  I mean, that's a goal obviously every year, start of the year, to get a win and to get back to that Mercedes Championship.  Ultimately, it helps you finish in the top 30 at the end of the Money List.

You know, I got a few more weeks left.  I'm going to play four more tournaments, including this one.  I should have a chance, give myself some opportunities, try to finish the season off well.
Q.  Being closer to home, does that have any effect on you?  Richmond is not all that close, but not too far.

JOHN ROLLINS:  It's nice.  I love coming here probably for that reason, too.  I like the golf course, for one.  It is nice to come back to an area that you're somewhat familiar with.  You know you can get some family and friends out to kind of come around and watch and cheer you on, have a good time with everyone.  So it gives me a chance to catch up with people that I haven't seen that often through the year because of the travels.

It is nice to come back somewhat close to home.
Q.  Who is here?

JOHN ROLLINS:  Well, I just have a few friends out today.  My parents and everybody are coming, a few other people are coming tomorrow, through the weekend.  But I did have just some friends of mine that were out today kind of cheering me on.
Q.  You played with Justin today.  Did pretty well, too.  Do you guys kind of feed off each other?

JOHN ROLLINS:  Absolutely.  When you get a group of guys that are playing well, making birdies, you know, hitting the ball on the fairway, knocking on the greens, it puts a good momentum for the group.  It gives you a good feel.  You get in kind of a good rhythm.  It always helps, rather than seeing guys, you know, if you're the only guy playing well, you're seeing guys hitting in the rough, making bogeys, not making putts, it can really stall your round out.

You know, Justin and I fed off pretty well today.  And Tjart played pretty well.  Kind of struggled the last few holes.  Overall our group, you know, I thought kind of blended pretty well.
Q.  You said you like this course.  Did you play it before the redesign?  What's better now?

JOHN ROLLINS:  I did play it before the redesign.  You know, I think both ways had their own pros and cons.  I mean, I think that now I think it's probably better now.  The greens don't have as much break.  You know, back before they redesigned the greens, they had a lot of little fingers in the greens they could kind of tuck some pins.  Now they've lost some of that.

But, you know, the greens are rolling really good.  The biggest thing is reading the greens because they look like they're going to break, but really the ball doesn't.  I've noticed the ball doesn't seem to break as much as you may think.  They have a lot of subtleties to them.
Q.  The second green, is that one of the more interesting greens you guys play on, little like a rollercoaster?

JOHN ROLLINS:  We play a few courses that have some greens with some pretty good slope in it.  Yeah, but it's a green where it's definitely a front and a back.  I mean, there's    you either fly it all the way on top, you're coming back.  If the pin's on the front, you hit it too far, it's just a big collection area.

Maybe not quite that severe, but we play quite a few greens through the course of a year that have as much slope as that green.
Q.  What is the easiest pin position on that hole?  The collection area?

JOHN ROLLINS:  Well, the collection area would be easier.  But, I mean, I don't know that they put a pin in the collection area for us this week.  I would say probably the front pins right now would be an easier pin than the back pin.
Q.  Some of the players yesterday were anticipating the course drying out a little.  Has it?

JOHN ROLLINS:  A little bit, yeah.  Tuesday in the practice round, the group I was with noticed we were picking up a lot of mud on the ball.  We had asked, you know, what was going on, if the water was off, what we were anticipating.  They said that, yes, it was, and it should start drying out.  I guess the rain maybe Sunday, Monday may have contributed to that.

It's dried out pretty well now.  It's in good shape.  The greens are still just a little soft.  But I think with a good forecast of weather for the rest of the week, they should hopefully firm up a little bit and probably be where they want them.
Q.  When did you get here?

JOHN ROLLINS:  I got in on Monday night.

JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT