BARCLAYS CLASSIC
June 23, 2005
John Rollins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
CHRIS REIMER:  Going in today, 3-under par, you see the conditions out there, score anything that's going to hold up well.
JOHN ROLLINS:  I don't know that it will hold up at the end of the day.  I would say the golf course is playing very difficult.  A lot of good pin placements.  Some leave you out there scratching your head.  The rough is good, you know, it's not easy by any means.  By the end of the day these guys are good and somebody should end up shooting a little lower than 3.
CHRIS REIMER:  You've had success here, in the playoff two years ago; what do you like about this course?
JOHN ROLLINS:  I like you don't have to go out and shoot 6, 7-under par every day to have a good score, to compete.  It's a golf course where you have to control the distance of your ball going into the greens, it's tough to make a lot of putts out here because the greens are very fast this week and they have a lot of slope to them.

I like that kind of style, I like that style of golf, I like to go out, and like I said, not have to shoot so slow every day where you can go out pace yourself and play solid chances where you'll move up at the end of the day.
Q.  What did you think of the pace of play, Vijay was very vocal it was extremely slow?
JOHN ROLLINS:  I was second group out.  I didn't really think we played -- I would agree we didn't play fast. I don't even know the time that we played in as a second group to be honest, it didn't really have -- I mean it didn't really bother me.  I didn't notice that it was taking a long time or not.  But I would say as a second group out, it definitely didn't feel as fast as it can on the first round.
Q.  When you made the turn, it wasn't all stacked up?
JOHN ROLLINS:  No, we made the turn and I think we were pretty much right in position.  It was kind of like it would have been if we started off, they let the group go and started us at our normal tee time.  I think the pace was about that.
Q.  Slow play is a fact of life out here.  You've got to accept it and deal with it?
JOHN ROLLINS:  It seems to be coming that way, yeah, you have to go out and just not let it bother you, just play golf.  It does get frustrating at times but it is what it is.  There's a lot of guys playing golf, so, you just have to deal with it.
Q.  I didn't see your card?
JOHN ROLLINS:  Started on the back nine.  I birdied number 11, made a long putt probably about a 30-footer or so, 35-footer for birdie.  Then I bogeyed number 12.  Came up short in the left bunker and didn't get it up and down.  Birdied 13 right after that.  Hit a 9-iron probably about 2 feet.  Then I birdied 16.  Made another pretty good putt, probably 18 or 20 footer there.  Then I bogeyed 17 with a three-putt.  Birdied two, made another snake of a putt from about 40, 45 feet.  Then I believe I just birdied nine.  If I can recall, I think I made all pars and birdied nine.  Two-putt at nine for birdie to finish at three.
Q.  How was the wind today?  It looked like it could be a little tricky?
JOHN ROLLINS:  It picked up a little about on the back nine for us.  This morning it wasn't so bad, but we did notice that the wind did kind of pick up a little on our backside.  Was a little swirly but it was pretty consistent. There was just a couple of times when the wind would be right in your face on one shot and then you get up and kind of be going the same way, it would be more crosswind or something.  You kind of were guessing a little bit.  For the most part, it was fairly consistent.  It just picked up later in the day.
CHRIS REIMER:  Anything that sticks out that's different this year than maybe in years past about the course?
JOHN ROLLINS:  I know they've added a tee on seven, which makes that tee shot tougher now.  You have to hit -- before I think either guys were trying to drive it up on the green or you were hitting a 3-iron something down near the bunker and a sandwedge in.  Now my group we hit 3-woods and driver, which that's not a wide fairway to be hitting a driver to.  But other than that, it looked like they took a lot of trees out.  I don't know if that was just for course conditioning or for what, more sunlight and airy. Did notice there were a lot of trees taken out.

The golf course is in great shape.  They've done a good job getting it ready for the tournament and I think it's going to set up to be a good tournament for the end of the week.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT