JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 11, 2004
John Rollins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOHN ROLLINS:  Actually my first ever hole-in-one.  There's a lot of par 3s I've played in my golfing days, but to finally get one to go in was a pretty awesome feeling.
Q.  Hopefully you'll open the door for a few more.  It opened the door for a good round.
JOHN ROLLINS:  I played well all week.  I'm very pleased with the way my game is coming around.

I made a few mistakes, but all in all it was a great week, I had a good time.
Q.  You said the hole-in-one was fantastic, exciting, but you don't look that excited.  You look kind of calm right now.
JOHN ROLLINS:  Well, there's nothing else I can do right now.  All my shots are done and I've turned my card in, and I'm ready to go home for a couple days and come back out for the next tournament.  But I am pretty pleased.  I'm sure my buddies are going to hit me up hard this evening.  You never know.
Q.  What did you use on the hole-in-one?
JOHN ROLLINS:  I hit a 7-iron.
Q.  Did it bounce up and in?
JOHN ROLLINS:  It looked like it hit just short, maybe a foot or so short of the hole, and it must have hit soft and fell in.  I couldn't really see it go in.  I saw it land and then everybody went nuts.  Everybody went crazy.

We knew it went in.
Q.  It's toward the end of the year, but obviously this is going to help your standing money-wise.  Everybody thinks about top 100.  How important is it --
JOHN ROLLINS:  Well, it is.  I've had a slow start to the year.  I have not been playing the way that I'm used to playing and the way that I've played the past couple years.

You know, it's been a lot of hard work and a lot of time and it's starting to pay off.  I had a bad first half, but I'm looking for a really, really good second half.  The good thing out here is you can make it up so fast.  You know, one or two weeks and you're right back where you want to be.

So this will definitely help, and I'm just going to enjoy it, try to keep playing the way I am and go next week and try to get a win there.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT