THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT
June 3, 2004
John Rollins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
Overall, your round, you've got to be content coming into tomorrow.
JOHN ROLLINS:  Yeah, I'm very happy with the way I played.  15 was a bit of a hiccup, then 17 I got one back and gave it back again on 18 with a bad second shot.

You know, I hit the ball pretty well all day, made some good putts and key putts at times and just really kept the ball in play the whole day, gave myself a lot of opportunities, and if I continue to do that I'll be okay.
Q.  (Inaudible).
JOHN ROLLINS:  Well, it's a good pin for one.  It's a good hole for that matter, but you know, you really can't hit a driver, at least my group did not hit driver off the tee, so you're kind of left with a mid-iron shot into that pin, and it's not just an easy pin placement or a hole, and much less going in with a 7-iron or 6-iron maybe into that type of pin.  It's one of those holes where you want to get your par and get out of there.
Q.  (Inaudible).
JOHN ROLLINS:  I hope so.  I feel pretty good.

I love this place.  I've played well here the last couple years and I love coming here.  It's one of my favorite events and favorite golf courses.  My game feels pretty good.  I've just got to stay focused and take it one day at a time.
Q.  (Inaudible).
JOHN ROLLINS:  Oh, it can be much more difficult than it is now.  These greens can get very firm and fast.  They're already rolling great.  They're pretty quick as they are now, and if they dry out and get firmer, then with some of these pin placements and the shots that you have to hit into some of these greens, it can be very demanding and require a lot of patience.
Q.  I know you've struggled a little bit.  What was working for you today?
JOHN ROLLINS:  I did a lot of things.  I drove the ball well, I felt like I hit my irons better than I have, and I putted pretty good today.  That's something I really struggle with, putting everything together for an entire round so far, especially getting off to a good start on Thursday.  That's kind of been my problem so far this year.

Today I was fortunate enough to kind of have fun, enjoy myself and play a golf course I love to play, and things worked out.
Q.  What happened on 15?
JOHN ROLLINS:  Well, I hit a shot to the right side bunker, had a great lie and actually joked with my caddie a little bit after the fact.  I told him I hadn't holed out a bunker shot in a while and was really feeling pretty good over the bunker shot, and once I bladed it over everybody's head up on the hillside, I kind of laughed and said, well, I haven't done that in a while, either.

You know, you hit a few, you miss a few, and unfortunately I missed that one and paid the price.
Q.  How far did it go?
JOHN ROLLINS:  Out of the bunker?
Q.  Yeah.
JOHN ROLLINS:  It was way up over the hill.  I probably had 25 or 30 yards back to the green.

I came back and made a good par on 16 and birdied 17, and then 18 here I probably put the worst swing on an iron shot the whole day on 18 from the fairway and just came right over the top and pull-hooked it over in that front left bunker.  I hit a better bunker shot than I did on 15 to keep it on the green.  Unfortunately I made bogey to finish my day, but I'm looking forward to a good week and the next three days, and hopefully we'll get things going my way.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT