WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 25, 2004
John Rollins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOHN ROLLINS:  It's always easier to swallow it when he makes birdie, but I'm just disappointed that I didn't give myself a chance.  I mean, I put the ball out of play, and he had whatever that was, 15- or 18-footer for birdie, and I didn't give myself a chance, and that's the disappointing part.

Q.  Were you really looking forward to playing this weekend?
JOHN ROLLINS:  Sure.  Any time you get the chance to go up against the greatest player in the world, you're always excited about that.  This was my first time playing with Tiger, and it wasn't the showing I wanted in terms of the way either one of us played.  I was looking forward to the match and I just wish that I could have played a little bit better early in the match and it may have been a different result in the end.

Q.  17 you said the match was kind of sloppy.  Was that sort of when you felt, like, shoot?
JOHN ROLLINS:  I told my caddie in the fairway after I hit my shot that I was in a situation where I really wanted to put one in there pretty close and give myself a chance to make the birdie and everything because I told my caddie that he's due any minute to just hit one of his towering shots that sit right by the flag, and it just so happens he must have heard me and he hit it right there by the hole.  I know that that's when he shines.  That's what a champion like that does.  When there's a situation, he takes advantage of it, and he did it again.

Q.  (Inaudible). 
JOHN ROLLINS:  I mean, you know, you've got to keep the ball in play better than what I did.  That was the biggest thing early in the match for me is I hit the ball in the rough.  I think the first fairway I hit was the 8th hole.  I hit it in the rough the whole time and just somehow got it up-and-down and kept myself in the match, and then I started hitting some fairways and made it a little bit more interesting, but you've got to hit the ball in the fairways.  I didn't do that early and I think it ended up costing me.

End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT