FUNAI GOLF CLASSIC AT WALT DISNEY WORLD RESORT
October 25, 2003
John Rollins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Well, John, thanks for joining us.  If you can make some comments how you played today, 5-under 67 and 18-under going into tomorrow.

JOHN ROLLINS:  Well, I played good.  I hit a lot of fairways or kept the ball in play for the most part.  I hit quite a few greens.  Gave myself birdy a lot of opportunities and capitalized on a few of them but also made a couple good saving par putts early in the round that really kept the momentum going. 

It was tough out there.  The wind was swirling all over the place.  Some of the pins were in some pretty cute spots and everything else.  But other than that I played really well and I'm pleased with where I stand.

THE MODERATOR:  Starting off No. 2 with a birdie.

JOHN ROLLINS:  No. 2, I hit a wedge from about 131 yards.  It actually just one-hopped and dinged the flag and landed about -- it was still about five or six feet away and made that. 

Then No. 4, par 5, I hit it in the back bunker.  Hit a good bunker shot.  Hit the flag again there and just had a tap in. 

Then I birdied No. 7, 8-iron from 143 yards and hit it in there to about a foot and made that.

Saved par on No. 1.  Made a good par putt on No. 1 of about six feet.

Then I saved par on 5, I believe, out of the bunker, got up-and-down out of the bunker there. 

9, made a good par putt of about five feet, four-and-a-half, five feet. 

I birdied 11.  I hit a wedge from about 133 yards or so to about six feet maybe  -- five, six feet  -- made that. 

Made a good up-and-down on 12 out of the bunker for par. 

Birdied 16.  I hit a 7-iron from 146 to like six inches and made birdy there. 


Q.  Just a technical question.  (Inaudible)  Is that normal or abnormal?  A little tougher?  Are they just trying to give their course as much teeth as they can muster?

JOHN ROLLINS:  That's pretty normal now.  I mean we go every week, you see a lot of threes and fours on all the corners and now it's becoming the norm.  Also I think too this golf course, because the scores are generally so low, that that is a way to try to put some form of defense for the golf course but you know the wind was, the wind was a good defense today.  They had the good pins and the wind swirling all over the place.  It was tough to really get the ball across to the hole. 


Q.  I was looking up here, your record from the last month, to put it kindly, I didn't see this coming; I think it's four missed cuts in the last five starts.  The one you made was a no-cut event.  So what have you been eating or drinking to cause the light to come on?

JOHN ROLLINS:  Nothing.  Everybody hits their highs and their lows.  Unfortunately I just haven't been playing well.  I haven't been getting the bounces and I haven't been making the putts.  It's just one of those things.  It's a crazy game.  Unfortunately, I haven't got to the level like Tiger where even if he's off he makes cuts.  I don't know how many; 112 or 113 in a row now. 

I haven't really done anything different.  You just got to stay focused and keep working on your swing and your game and try to stay positive which is what I have done.  Now this week is definitely not a shock to me.  I consider myself one of the better players out here and I'm very comfortable with where I am.  And I'm just going to go try to play well tomorrow and see what happens. 


Q.  How is it for you to bounce back after the playoff loss at Buick.  Obviously coming off a win last year then to have another win kept you on roll but it didn't come through.  Was it tough for to you bounce back from that. 

JOHN ROLLINS:  Not really.  You win some; you lose some.  That's what a playoff is all about.  It's sudden death and what do you do?  You tip your hat to the guy that makes eagle on you in the playoff hole.  If I went out and made bogey or something and basically handed him the tournament then it would have maybe had a more sour taste, but for him to go out and he makes birdy to get in the playoff and he makes eagle in the playoff, it really wasn't that hard.  I knew I played well on a very difficult golf course.  I took a lot of confidence and pride out of that week and it really wasn't hard to bounce back. 


Q.  All in all you're pretty happy with the follow-up lead you had last year when you were in the TOUR Championship and all that good stuff?

JOHN ROLLINS:  Yeah.  I'm trying to fight my way back to the Top-30 like where I feel like I belong.  It has been a good year so far for me to kind of come back and follow up.  You don't want to finish 25th on the list and then come back the following year and maybe finish 100th because everybody thinks it's a fluke.  I don't consider it that and I look forward to being in the Top-30 for a long time.


Q.  What do you think of that leaderboard; some pretty big names up there; four-way tie at the top and Vijay and Love working?

JOHN ROLLINS:  It is.  It's going to be a good final round and I'm glad to be part of it, right there butting heads with some of the best players in the world.  I'm just going to go out and play my game and do what I can and see where it stacks up. 


Q.  Can you clear this stuff up about sometimes on the sheets you're live in Clearwater.  But obviously in the book it says Richmond; do you live in Clearwater?

JOHN ROLLINS:  I have a home in Clearwater.  I was born and raised in Richmond, that's where I'm from.  I've lived there for 26 or 27 years of my life.  I moved down to Clearwater in December of last year, so I have a place in Clearwater, yes. 


Q.  Will you consider next week at all a home event for you or is it not?

JOHN ROLLINS:  Williamsburg was a home event for me.  I'm not a native of Clearwater.  I can't consider it a home event.  I've only played the golf course maybe five or six times.  One of those times was in a golf tournament so I can't consider that a home tournament but it is close to where the home is located, yes.

THE MODERATOR:  Thanks John.

JOHN ROLLINS:  Thank you. 


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT