THE INTERNATIONAL
August 9, 2003
John Rollins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOAN vON THRON:  Thank you, John, for joining us, 5 points, great day today. Tell us about your day.

JOHN ROLLINS: I hit the ball well today; unfortunately putted very poorly.  I had three 3-putts, never really seemed like I had the speed of the greens down, kind of cost me some shots.  All and all, I hit the ball well.  I hope to continue that tomorrow and hopefully get the putts to fall. 


Q.   Looked like you left a lot of putts short.  Nerves play a factor at all?

JOHN ROLLINS: I don't think it was really nerves.  I think it just -- I got off -- the greens were quicker today, so I think I just kind of gave them a little bit  -- a little bit too much credit and had some putts that looked downhill that looked they could be pretty quick, just didn't really hit the putt real solid.  Seemed like when I hit it solid I was running it three, four feet by the hole so it was -- kind of just never really got comfortable on the greens. 


Q.   You said I think yesterday that today's round was going to be the first time you have been playing with Davis. How did that go?  Had you played with Phil before?

JOHN ROLLINS: I played with Phil a couple of times.  Davis, my first.  Everything was well.  He's a great player and a great person and easy to play with and it was a fun day.  Look forward to another good day tomorrow. 


Q.   I know you have won before.  Have you been in the final group on Sunday before?

JOHN ROLLINS: Yes, last year, New Orleans, I played with K.J. Who went onto be the champion that day on Sunday but I played the final group with him.


Q.   Can you give as you sense of what it's going to take for you or anybody to beat Davis?

JOHN ROLLINS: Very good golf.  He's swinging so well, hitting the ball so solid, putting great, doing everything the way he's supposed to.  It's going to be tough to beat, but I am going to go out tomorrow and see what happens and if it is my day, it's my day; if it's not, then I will just try to play the best I can.


Q.   Did you get a feeling that Davis was human today? He made some errors just like everyone else out there.  It's an individual sport, obviously, it's your match, but it's kind of a one-on-one maybe so you feel like now you have got a chance to climb up that leaderboard?

JOHN ROLLINS: I still have guys that are -- it's not like I am got second place locked up for right now.  There's still plenty of guys that can catch me so I have to watch what I am doing. 

Yeah, it was kind of one of those days, the pins were tough, the greens were quicker, so the golf course played tougher overall.  We had a little bit of wind.  When you have to factor in altitude wind elevation all this stuff, it's tough out there, but you know, I mean, he's still played great.  He's going to be tough to beat, but I will give it my best. 


Q.   10 points is two eagles.  What is your strategy going into this round tomorrow?  Be more aggressive?  Do you play different than if it was -- if it was stroke-play or what is your mindset?

JOHN ROLLINS: I want to get off to a quick start with the par 5 on the first hole, you have a chance there that you can maybe make a 3 or definitely a birdie.  So I am going to come out playing aggressive, see what happens, but at the same time, I am not going to just fire at flags just because I am 10 points back.  I am going to keep playing the way I have been playing and hopefully things will work out and I can just get more comfortable on the greens and make some putts.


Q.   Nobody really made a run today, are you surprised?

JOHN ROLLINS: Not really.  As I said, it's playing difficult out there.  It was hard to get the ball close to some of the flags and the greens, like I said, the greens were quicker and they had some good pin placements, so I am not very surprised. 


Q.   Expect pin placements to be easier or harder tomorrow?

JOHN ROLLINS: I am sure they will be just as tough if not tougher.  We saw some of the dots out there today and we were kind of shaking our heads kind of wondering how we're going to hit a shot somewhere near the flags.  It will be fun.  You never know what happens.


Q.   Talk about how important today was as far as -- you still in position to catch Davis, I mean, if you eagle the first hole tomorrow and he pars you are within 5.  Today, even though it wasn't as good as you would have liked, still pretty important day?

JOHN ROLLINS: Yeah, all and all I felt like everything was okay considering Davis didn't pull away or extend his lead to 15, maybe 20 points.  So to hold ground and stay 10 back I still feel like I have an outside chance to put some pressure on him if I can get off to a quick start and that's what I am going to try to do.

JOAN vON THRON:  Let's go through your birdies and bogeys.

JOHN ROLLINS: No. 1, chipped it up to maybe 4, 4 and a half feet or so made that.

Then I bogeyed 4, 3-putted 4, hit it about 22, 25 feet, 3-putted.

Then I bogeyed 7, did the same thing, hit it about 25 or 30 feet on there, 3-putted.

Birdied 8, hit it I guess I was maybe twelve feet, made birdie.

I laid up.  Actually I hit 3-wood as a lay-up short of the green then chipped it up and then made par  -- made birdie.

10, I hit an 8-iron into the green, to about--  I guess that was probably 18 feet, made that.

14, hit it just right of the green, chipped it up to probably eight feet, made that.

I guess bogeyed 18 with a 3-putt.  Probably from only 15 feet, maybe. 


Q.   Talk about that putt on 10, looked like you kind of coaxed it in; you didn't think it was going to in?

JOHN ROLLINS: I actually hit a good puck.  I was wondering how the ball wasn't going to break.  The ball just was kind of hanging out to the right and if there is no way I thought it could do that and then all of a sudden at the end it lost speed and turned right in the hole and went in.  So I was kind of confused as to how it wasn't breaking at first and then it fell in, so it finally did what I was hoping it would do. 


Q.   Can you tell us a little bit about other pros reactions; have they been sort of cheering you on, people out of contention, or given you any advice or anything like that in chasing Davis?

JOHN ROLLINS: No, I think you know, out here we are all  -- we play together all the time and I mean, there's  -- nobody is rooting against anybody and so nobody really comes up and says -- gives you advice on how to try to catch Davis, or you know, anything like that.  I think everybody knows that we just go out and play our own game and do what we can. 


Q.   If you look at the top of the leaderboard last few weeks on Tour and this year, there is a lot of veteran names.  Young guys kind of maybe falling a little bit behind where they were last year, and veterans seem to be taking over the Tour...

JOHN ROLLINS: I think last year with all the first-time winners I think it must have put a little fire under the veterans' belts and decided that pump these guys up and get them going because they -- they have come out this year and yeah, they have pretty much dominated the whole year.  But I think it's just credit to how good they are.  Guys like Freddie Couples coming back after, you know, since '98 that he won and comes back and wins Houston and the year Davis is having and just guys like that, I mean, I think last year was just one of those years that they were like, hey, we got to stop these young guns from beating us and winning all these tournaments, so they are fired up and ready to play and they are doing a good job.

JOAN vON THRON:  Thank you, John, for joining us. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT