THE INTERNATIONAL
August 8, 2003
John Rollins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOAN vON THRON:  Thank you, John, for joining us for a few minutes.  Great round out there today.  Tough competition with Davis Love taking off like he did this morning.  You still battled with 26 points.

JOHN ROLLINS: He came out and set the tone early.  He has been playing great.  I guess it lets you know that there's points out there; you just have to go out and get them.  That's what we tried to do today.  Fortunately enough I got 15 or 16 of my own.  Keep plugging away and taking it one day at a time and one shot at a time and see what happens in the end.

JOAN vON THRON:  Questions. 


Q.   (Inaudible)?

JOHN ROLLINS: I played great all day.  I hit one bad shot on the par 3, No. 4, I think is what it was.  And hit it down in the hazard; had to take a drop and made a great up-and-down to save  -- losing only one point rather than 3.  Other than that, I played good all day. 


Q.   (Inaudible)?

JOHN ROLLINS: I made the 2nd hole No. 11, par 3, I made a big swinging putt kind of up and over that hill there from probably 25 feet or so that I wasn't real expecting to make, just trying to lag it up, hit a good putt and it went in.  I guess then I ended up birdieing 12 right after that.  I'd say making the putt early kind of got some momentum going.


Q.   You are going to be paired with Davis tomorrow.  Will that affect your game at all?  Trying to chase the leader you can see exactly what he does but he starts off 10 points ahead of you.

JOHN ROLLINS: No, I have never played with Davis.  I am looking forward to it.  It should be fun, but I am just going to try to play the way I have been playing the last two days, and you know, if he keeps playing the way he's playing I can't control that.  I am just going to try to go out and play my game and make as many points as I can and see where what happens tomorrow.

JOAN vON THRON:  Let's go over your birdies and bogeys.  I think our computer is a little confused.  No. 11.  Birdie.

JOHN ROLLINS: I hit 8-iron actually a 7-iron on the green like I said, about 25, maybe 28 feet, and made that.

12, I hit a little 8-iron into the green there, to about maybe six or seven feet, made that.

Then 14, I hit it just short of the green in two, chipped it up, tapped it in.

15, I hit a lob wedge just past the hole probably -- actually it was maybe 15 or 18 feet, made that.

16, I hit a 5-iron to about maybe six feet, made that.

I birdied -- I didn't birdie 1, didn't birdie 17.   I don't like the easy holes.  

I birdied 3.  I hit it probably 20 feet or so behind the hole, with a wedge.  Made that putt.

Then I bogeyed 4, hit it in the right hazard, took a drop  -- (inaudible)

Then birdied No. 6.  Hit a wedge probably to about five feet, made that.

Then birdied 8, 3-wood on the green and 2-putted. 

JOAN vON THRON:  About how far?

JOHN ROLLINS: Second shelf so probably good 30, 35 feet, maybe. 

JOAN vON THRON:  Questions. 


Q.   Any saving pars?

JOHN ROLLINS: Over the green on No. 5 just in the first cut there, not like the heavy rough on the downslope over the green, chipped it up probably to about six feet or so made that for par. 


Q.   What went through your head when you saw Davis's scores?

JOHN ROLLINS: My initial reaction was we're playing for second.  Everybody was out on the driving range, everybody was like, what are you going to do, the way it looked like he was going to get to 40-something points today and figured it was his tournament already.  But you know, then once I got out and started playing, saw that he was only at 36, say only, but he was only at 36 and then I started to make some birdies and get points on my own and get over the 20 mark and then keep going.  Then at the end of the day, now you feel like you have a chance, you are back in the tournament, you have to go out and  -- he still has to play; before he just had a cake walk.  I am going to do my best to put pressure on him, make him keep going and see what happens. 


Q.   Were you doing some math in your head a little bit?

JOHN ROLLINS: Not really.  I mean, you know, I wasn't really thinking about that.  It was just nice to see that you know, I know he was at 36, like I said, I kept making some birdies and giving myself points and climbing up and getting closer.  10 points is 10 points, but in this format 10 points is nothing.  You make two eagles and you are tied.  So you come right out tomorrow and first hole is a reachable par 5, you never know that could be 5 right off the bat.  This format is a little different than stroke-play for ten shots, yeah, it is a little bit different but 10 points in this format is nothing. 


Q.   Did you have any chances on the other two par 5s?

JOHN ROLLINS: No. 17 I did not.  I hit a poor drive, had to chip it out and then hit a very mediocre third shot and made a par there, but -- and then No. 1 I hit a perfect drive, had a 4-iron to the green and actually hit a good shot, it came up short in the bunker, hitting the lip of the bunker, kicked back down, hit a poor bunker shot, didn't make it. 

JOAN vON THRON:  Thank you, John.

JOHN ROLLINS: Thank you. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT