BUICK CLASSIC
June 22, 2003
John Rollins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  John Rollins, thanks for joining us.  Long day today, 30 holes but you played a great final round, 67 and you just have to tip your hat to Jonathan Kaye making an eagle in the playoff.  Why don't you talk about how it went?
JOHN ROLLINS:   Well, I hit probably the worst tee shot all day for me on 18 and pulled it in the left rough, which he hit in the fairway and you can't do that on that hole.  Just kind of put myself behind the 8 ball right off the tee.  I tried to give it a run for birdie and hit a good putt and it didn't go in, but, yeah, my hat is off to him for making the eagle.  That's strong. 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Talk about your final round, you finished your third round this morning and shot another 67.  You played great today.  How about the state of your game?
JOHN ROLLINS:   I played great all week.  I drove the ball great.  Lift, clean and place, you've got to keep the ball in your hand.  Hit a lot of greens, a lot of good putts and just kept plugging along, not doing anything too crazy, just keeping the ball in play and making birdies when I could. 
I'm very happy with the way I drove the ball and hit the ball all week, and I'll take that hopefully next time. 

Q.  Is there any sort of moral victory, having a good tournament with the playoff?
JOHN ROLLINS:   If was easy, all of us would be like Tiger are, winning five, six, seven times a year.  It's tough out here, and, yeah, I'm very pleased with the way I played and I'll take a great deal of confidence from this tournament.  And hopefully it will ride out to a great finish of the year.

Q.  When he puts his ball in the fairway, how much did that weigh on you and factor in the result of your tee shot in the playoff?
JOHN ROLLINS:   None, really.  I go out and I play my game, and you know you have to put the ball in the fairway all the time.  But when he put it in the fairway first, yeah, maybe that adds a little bit of pressure.  But I didn't feel any pressure to hit a bad tee shot.  I just happened to pull it a little bit, and I guess it caught maybe the tree or something, I'm not sure, and just kicked down to the left in the rough. 

Q.  How many times did it hit that fairway during the week? 
JOHN ROLLINS:   I hit it every day. 

Q.  When you started play today, did you believe that you could get into a playoff, that you could win this tournament?
JOHN ROLLINS:   Yeah, I told my caddie  -- actually on the 15th hole today in the third round when we came back, I hit my tee shot in the fairway and I told him, I think I might have been maybe one shot, maybe two out of the lead, I'm not sure.  I told him, "I think I'm just going to go ahead and win the golf tournament."   
So, yeah, when I teed off in the final round, I felt like I had a chance to win because I'm playing good enough and hitting the ball well and I was putting really well, too.  So I felt like I had that opportunity. 

Q.  Talk about 18 in regulation, and then what it was like waiting for him to finish up?
JOHN ROLLINS:   Well, 18 in regulation, obviously you have the momentum going.  I had just birdied 17, so I was a little pumped up and everything for that and I knew I had to make birdie on 18 to get in a playoff or have an opportunity because chances are, he was going to make birdie. 
I played 18 in regulation pretty good, with the exception of my first putt was a little shaky considering I left it six feet or more above the hole, almost like I had it in the playoff.  But I managed to get it in. 
And, yeah, it's always tough when you just stand around and wait for everybody to finish and then have to start over.  That's the way it happened and I just didn't get the job done when I needed to.  And Jonathan, he made a great eagle in the playoff, so my hat is off to him.

Q.  What did you think the putt was for birdie in overtime, the playoff hole?
JOHN ROLLINS:   12 feet maybe.  10 or 12 feet, something like that.

Q.  How far were you off the tee shot? 
JOHN ROLLINS:  Well, I had 240 to the front of the green, so 264 all the way to the hole.  I had no way of going for the green at all because I had trees and I just had to try to get it back in play to where I could have a number to have an opportunity for birdie.

Q.  Did you ever experience that before, maybe not on the Tour, but having to wait around to see what was going to happen, and did you think about doing something other than standing there, maybe going to hit some putts or something like that?
JOHN ROLLINS:   Well, the Bell Canadian Open last year that I won, I was actually done about an hour before the leaders finish and I had watched the double-bogey by Neal and the bogey by Justin, happened to get in a playoff.  And never hit any balls.  It just kind of happened; was unexpected and then I went in a playoff and ended up winning.  I've been in a very similar situation before, but unfortunately I had a different result this time.

Q.  The way the leaderboard was constantly bobbing all day, were you monitoring during the course of the round?
JOHN ROLLINS:   Yeah, I keep my eyes on it.  I don't die to look at the leaderboard and I don't have to know everything that's going on.  But when I come by, I'll glance at it to see if anybody is making a lot of birdies and running away, or if people are going backwards or just kind of what's going on. 
I tried to just stay in my game and worry about what I was doing and hit the best shots that I could, but, yes, I did glance at leaderboards from time to time. 

Q.  How well do you know Jonathan personally and what do you know about his game? 
JOHN ROLLINS:   I know Jonathan pretty well.  Obviously he's got a great game.  He's been out here, I don't know how many years now, but he's been out here for a fair share of years.  You know, he has not ever broken through till today, but he's a great player.  He's had a bunch of really good seasons out here.  He's just a very steady player and his name has been up there a bunch of times.  It just hasn't worked out for him.  But this week was his, week and I think you're going to still see a lot more from him because he is a good player.

Q.  You had a good year last year, Top-30, second today; do you feel like your career is progressing on schedule?  Are you where you want to be?  Are you ahead of schedule or what do you think you are? 
JOHN ROLLINS:   I'd like to be doing a little better.  But I'm not unhappy at all with the way I've been playing for the last two years or year and a half or however long it's been.  But I'm very, very pleased with the way things are going and I just  -- I'm a pretty quiet person and people really don't know much about me and don't really know who I am.  Sometimes that kind of wears on you, but at the same time it's kind of fun because you can go out and do your business and finish up and have a great tournament and go on the next week and do the same.  So, it's been a fun ride. 
17, I hit driver off the tee and had 106 yards to the hole and hit a little knock-down pitching wedge to probably eight feet or so, just right of the hole and made that. 
Then 18, I hit a drive down the fairway, knocked a 3-wood just off the right edge of the green and ended up 2-putting for birdie.  Made about a 6-footer or so for birdie in regulation. 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  You said you were in the rough on your drive in the playoff and then you had 260 to the hole.  What did you hit?
JOHN ROLLINS:   I hit a 7-iron just under the trees to get it back in play and to get it back to a number that I wanted and actually hit it further than I thought I would, but still had a decent number and hit a decent shot.  Unfortunately, missed a 10- or 12-footer. 

Q.  Your approach on the playoff before you even teed off, did you have a different mindset, did you think you had to have a birdie or eagle for sure?
JOHN ROLLINS:   I figured I'd have to have a birdie, at least to keep the playoff going, because it's reachable, and all you have to do is put it in the fairway and you're going to knock it up on the green.  These guys out here are so good that if you do that, chances are you are going to make birdie more times than not.  I knew I had to make a birdie, at least, but to know that you have to make an eagle just to extend it, that's tough to do.  
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Thank you very much. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT