WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 1, 2013
John Rollins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JOHN ROLLINS:   I mean, this golf course yields a lot of birdies.   The back nine is a lot of fun to play.   You can make birdies and eagles, with the par‑5s and the drivable par‑4 there.   But knowing that, you know that this course can give up some stuff late, so you just have to really just attack where you can and just plod along the best you can and get as low a number out there. 

Q.   Halfway through and you're in contention.   Talk about your round today. 
JOHN ROLLINS:   I played well.   We had to come back out and resume.   Pretty cold this morning our last four holes we had to finish on, and then once the sun got up and the temperature started going up, now it's perfect out here.   I played well, made some putts, which was nice to see, and I made some nice mid‑range putts that I haven't really been making the last couple of weeks.   That was, like I said, fun to watch, and we just really hit the ball well, gave ourselves a lot of opportunities and took advantage of some of them. 

Q.   How does it feel to be at the halfway point and to be right there in the mix?
JOHN ROLLINS:   Yeah, obviously we just hope that Phil doesn't do anything crazy out there after shooting 11 yesterday.   We put ourselves there.   We've got a chance on the weekend, and a lot of birdies to be made this weekend, and I'm sure there are some charges that are going to be made.

Q.   What would it mean to you to pull off a victory here to kind of leapfrog the rest of the season?
JOHN ROLLINS:   Well, I would love to.   I like playing here.   It's a fun tournament.   The atmosphere obviously is great.   And the golf course is fun.   I enjoy playing the golf course because you know that you can make a lot of birdies, but at the same time you can't just hit it all over the place.   You have to hit the ball still in the right spots and take advantage of the par‑5s and some of the shorter holes when you can and hopefully steal a few along the way.   But I'd love to take home the trophy.

Q.   You've got to kind of play with the crowd out here at 16.   How was your experience there today on 16? 
JOHN ROLLINS:   Well, the first time we got lucky.   We finished ‑‑ at 7:30 we resumed, so we were there, and there might have been eight people in the bleachers.   So we got through there pretty unscathed.   But the second go‑around we started on the back, and it was amazing how quickly it went from nobody in the bleachers to a complete stadium full of people.   I got out of there with two pars and actually hit a good shot the second time around and gave myself a birdie look, but it's such a fun hole.   You know what you're going to get before you get there.   I've played here enough times to understand what they're going to be like and how fun it is if you play well and how bad it is if you don't hit a good shot.   It's as nerve‑wracking a wedge or 9‑ or 8‑iron, whatever the tees and pin placements will be, it's the most nerve‑wracking short iron you'll ever hit. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT