ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 28, 2012
John Rollins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Fabulous playing out there today.   Was it a little tougher or a little easier out there today?  
JOHN ROLLINS:   I thought it was -- I guess it was tough.   There seemed to be a lot of crosswinds today moreso than what we've had the first two rounds and seemed to swirl a lot.   You be standing downwind and into the wind.   Kind of lot of second guessing going on and, you know, the way they had some of these pins, it's not a fun way to play.   A little more challenging.  
   
 Q.   You've always been a high ball hitter.   Early on in your career you moved to Dallas.   Has that made you a better wind player?  
JOHN ROLLINS:   I don't know.   I think I still hit it high.   I don't think I really changed the style that I play.   I can get it down some but not as low as some of these guys out here.   
You know, I enjoy playing in the wind.   It's just tough when you get the swirling winds and a lot of crosswinds.   It's tough to really get a good number in your head.   You really have to pick a yardage and a club and commit to it and see what happens.  
   
 Q.   Steve Striker said there's a bunch of guys trying to win the first time for the leaderboard.   He mentioned you and Ernie as veterans to watch out for tomorrow.   What are your thoughts about tomorrow?  
JOHN ROLLINS:   Well, yeah.   Feel like I played good all week so far.   I've done some good things.   I've kept the ball in play.   I've been very patient.   
I've actually done something for the first time in my career where I've gone three complete rounds and have not looked at a leaderboard one time.   I've never known where I stood in the golf tournament until I'm actually finished.   It's been fun.   
I've just been out there playing golf and not really worrying about it.   So tomorrow I'm going to try to do it, tell my caddy to keep his eyes on the board and tell me anything I need to do when it gets late in the round and hopefully come the last four, five holes have a chance.  
   
 Q.   Sports psychologist help you with that or something you came up with on your own?  
JOHN ROLLINS:   The quirky things us golf pros do.   I tried it first round and played good.   I told my mental coach about it.   He said it sounded like a goal for tomorrow.   He said, "You're doing fine, keep doing what you're doing.   Keep your eyes to yourself instead of on the boards" and it's been fun.   
I went out the first round and said, you know what, I'm just going to try to get off to a good start and just play golf and stay into what I'm doing and not really worry about -- you can't win it on Thursday so why worry if I'm tied for 10th or 30th or tied for the lead, you know?   Just go play golf and see what happens and got a good round out of it.   Did it again yesterday, got a great round and did it again today.   
It's been a pleasant change.  
   
 Q.   I did hear you say earlier in the week you're having trouble with building momentum during the course of this year.  
JOHN ROLLINS:   I got off to a great start and had 3 Top-10s in the first four weeks on the West Coast.   I came to -- took a week off at Pebble and came to L.A. and it was like I just wasn't quite as sharp.   You know, missed the cut there.   
Then I went -- had another week off and missed the cut at the Honda.   It was like I played four in a row which was a great way to start, get some feel going in your game and then I kind of went on a week on, week off, week on, a week off.   I never really had any momentum.   
We just kind of chalked it up to unfortunately I wasn't in Match Play and I wasn't in Doral so I was kind of forced to have the weeks off and just it was what it was.   That's kind of been a good start, kind of hot and cold in between and see what happens tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   You always play good here.   
JOHN ROLLINS:   Yes.   I enjoy coming here.   Like the golf course.   The town -- I can obviously eat my way right through this place.   It's just a fun week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT