U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 11, 2009
Teresa Lu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. 1-under par 70. Probably the toughest conditions of the championship do you think?
 TERESA LU: I would say so, yes. The green is so tough. I think the green is very tough, undulating and really fast, so you have to really focus on your second shot to put it in a good spot. Like today I have some balls, totally miss-hit it, and I had really tough putt to putt it, so I think that's how tough it is. 

 Q. Three straight days of being under par. What do you feel like is your secret at this point of your success these last couple days?
 TERESA LU: I didn't think too much about the score. I just keep playing because I know birdie this hole doesn't mean next hole you'll keep playing good, so you really have to focus on what you're doing right now. So right now just feel like relief. 

 Q. You had a look of surprise on your face when I told you you're within four strokes of the lead. You still surprised about that?
 TERESA LU: Yeah, I did because I wasn't really looking at the board. Just see how it goes and just keep playing good. 

 Q. What do you think about your chances?
 TERESA LU: I don't know. If I play good, I might get really close to it, but we'll see. 

 Q. The scores you're posting, are you just looking to be around par tomorrow? Is that the goal for the last round?
 TERESA LU: I don't know about that. I'm not sure. 

 Q. Is that a nice position to be in going into tomorrow? I mean you have those couple people in front of you, the leaders, and does it take some of the pressure off you to be just behind them?
 TERESA LU: Well, I would think so, yeah, because you would keep chasing them. You keep going, and when you're up top there, you might still be nervous or something. I don't know. So I think it's fun. It's a good position to have. 

 Q. Do you feel you play better when you have to catch someone or you play better when you are in the lead?
 TERESA LU: Well, I think to catch someone, that would be more motivated. 

 Q. Looking at your results from previous U.S. Opens, seems like you've improved every time you've gone to this tournament. Is it a question of do you learn something different each time you go that helps you improve?
 TERESA LU: Right. Right. I think I learn something from the U.S. Open course because you have to be really patient to it. 
 When I was playing, I get really impatient, and when I got, one bad hole, I would just keep playing bad, so you have to learn how to get over it and just keep going.

 Q. Tell us how you played No. 10, what your club selections were and your yardages. What did you play off the tee on No. 10?
 TERESA LU: 5-iron. And I was hitting 3-wood yesterday, but I didn't know the tee was going to be there, so my caddie walked off and it was like 90 yards, so kind of think put it around 100, 80 yards and that would be a good position to have. 

 Q. What club did you hit going into the green?
 TERESA LU: Let me think. It's 52 wedge, and I had it 90 yards from the pin. 

 Q. How far did you have it?
 TERESA LU: Three yards, nine feet. 

 Q. When you were growing up, was this a tournament that you would watch on TV?
 TERESA LU: Yeah. Definitely. 

 Q. Did you ever dream that you'd be here?
 TERESA LU: Yeah. 

 Q. And what's it like now to be in this position going in the final day?
 TERESA LU: Yeah. When I was little, look at the TV, I said, wow, they're so good, because the course is so tough and they're still shooting the good score. And I kept thinking, just keep practicing so hard, maybe I could be there one day, and hopefully I'll be the one tomorrow that people look at me. 

 Q. Good day for your people too. Candie Kung shot 3-under. 
 TERESA LU: Yes. 

 Q. So maybe there's a possibility you might play together tomorrow. 
 TERESA LU: Yes. 

 Q. Do you play together much?
 TERESA LU: Yes. In practice rounds we play a lot. 

 Q. Thank you. 
 TERESA LU: Thank you very much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT