GINN TRIBUTE HOSTED BY ANNIKA
May 30, 2008
Teresa Lu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MIKE SCANLAN: Thanks for coming in, 9-under today, 9-under overall talk about your round today and how you played. 
 TERESA LU: I feel really good about today and today, I can really read the putts. Yesterday I was a little guessing, but today it's better. 

 Q. What was it that made the difference as far as reading putts? Was it seeing the line differently or adjusting from playing the first round?
 TERESA LU: Kind of a little bit of each. I can feel the putt today better. 

 Q. The scoring, 4- and 5-under, each of the last two rounds, do you feel like if you don't shoot 4- or 5-under each round you're losing ground to the field at this point? Because the scoring is so good, do you feel that you have to shoot low to stay in there?
 TERESA LU: I think so, because the course is in great shape and you can really score it. So I think you have to kind of shoot really low to win this.

 Q. How has your year been? How do you feel you're playing this year?
 TERESA LU: I feel I'm getting better and better every week and learn something from each week and so feel really good about it.

 Q. What's getting better about it specifically? 
 TERESA LU: I would say overall but the confidence is the main thing. The putting is getting better than last year. 

 Q. Do you feel good about the way you're going to play the next couple of days?
 TERESA LU: Sure, definitely.

 Q. Do you feel any pressure, up toward the top of the leaderboard, you'll be in one of the final pairings for Saturday; anymore pressure?
 TERESA LU: I don't think so. I think it's really good experience for me to get in the top in contention. It's really good. 

 Q. Since you've joined the LPGA, have you been up there in contention?
 TERESA LU: Yeah, I've been paired with Lorena last year and two times this year, and I really like the feel. A little bit nervous and cool. 

 Q. And how did you do those two times?
 TERESA LU: That wasn't bad but not really great. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Thanks for coming in and good luck this weekend. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT