SYBASE CLASSIC PRESENTED BY SHOPRITE
May 17, 2008
Teresa Lu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Teresa, thanks for coming in and joining us. Great round out there, 68 on Thursday and a 3-under 69 today. You're the leader in the clubhouse at 7-under. Can you just talk about how you played today?   
 TERESA LU: I'm really happy the way I played today. I got an eagle, which is fun, and then ten pars straight, which is good. Although I didn't make any birdies on the back nine, but I think par is good enough.  
 THE MODERATOR: How does it feel to go out there and get your round done early in a day and know that you've got the lead right now and you're going to hold it for a while?   
 TERESA LU: It's fun, because I played early this morning. The weather is really good, and the course wasn't that bad, so it was fun.  
 THE MODERATOR: I'll just go over Teresa's scorecard. She had an eagle on the 5th hole, 3-wood to 20 feet.   
 Bogey on the 6th hole, pushed her driver right, was short of the green, chipped to 15 feet and missed her par putt.  
 On 8, birdie, 7-iron to six feet.  
 And on 9, birdie, 7-iron to two feet.   
  
  Q. You're 20 or 21?  
 TERESA LU: 20.  
  
  Q. Do you feel you played well? What did you do good today aside from scoring?   
 TERESA LU: I think the shot decision we were pretty good today.  
  
  Q. Selection?  
 TERESA LU: Yeah, selection, the clubs, and like reading the putts is pretty good today.   
 THE MODERATOR: You seem to like this golf course quite a bit, too. You're playing well. What about this golf course suits your game the most?   
 TERESA LU: I will say because it's pretty straight. I usually hit my shots pretty straight. If you can stay on the fairway the whole time, you will be fine.   
  
  Q. I'm just wondering, it seems like quite a lot of wind out there. How much of a factor was the wind?   
 TERESA LU: Just a little bit. When I played, it wasn't that windy. Right now it's windier. We were okay out there. That wasn't a factor very much.  
 THE MODERATOR: Do you think you had an advantage playing in the morning today?   
 TERESA LU: I would think so, yeah. I got lucky.   
  
  Q. I don't know if this was asked. Talk about being in the lead and playing in the lead of an LPGA tournament. What's it like? How do you think about being in the lead? What do you think about it?   
 TERESA LU: I think it's very good experience for me. Like last time I played with Lorena in Ginn Open, and I really learned a lot during that week.   
 THE MODERATOR: And since this event was shortened from 72 holes just to 54, is there more pressure on you in the second round than there normally would be to post a good score?   
 TERESA LU: Not really. It's still golf, so you have to stay with the shot, one shot at a time.  
  
  Q. You said you had some experience then and you learned some. What will you learn for tomorrow to play? How does it affect you? What do you think about then?   
 TERESA LU: I would say the focus. Sometimes when I get in the last group I will think too much, expecting too much. But I would say tomorrow just stay in the present and just go out and enjoy the day.   
 THE MODERATOR: And just in April this year, Teresa did play in the final group on Sunday at the Ginn Open with Lorena Ochoa and Ya-Ni Tseng.   
 We'll let you get some practice in. Have a good day, okay?   
 TERESA LU: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT