RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
July 31, 2015
Teresa Lu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. It was very rainy‑‑  
TERESA LU: Yeah, the weather is cold and windy. It's not like Taiwan.  
   
 Q. Take us through your round and explain how it all went today?  
TERESA LU: Well, the condition today is really tough. I think I hit lots of par saves out there. I think I didn't hit the ball quite well but it turned out pretty good, so I got somewhat lucky over that. So I think‑‑ I hope I can play better tomorrow and hit it straighter.   
   
 Q. So even though you did so well in such tough conditions, do you think you can do even better?   
TERESA LU: I just got lucky with it. Some of the holes, I hit it way over left and just got a good lie and still can hit a shot to the green. So I was lucky.  
   
 Q. So you had a really tough round today in tough conditions, and you had maybe do you think the worst of the afternoon?   
TERESA LU: Maybe. The rain is heavier compared with the morning. But it happens.   
   
 Q. And maybe because you haven't played that much links golf, how are you approaching these tricky conditions?   
TERESA LU: I don't know, I just try to keep on the fairway and the green. Sometimes it's just really hard to hit into the wind, because sometimes the side wind, I just couldn't handle it. I don't know, just try to learn a little bit every day.   
   
 Q. Any special shots that you are using only here?   
TERESA LU: Well, basically just low shots. Try to keep it low.  
   
 Q. And how are you finding that? Is it a big challenge?  
TERESA LU: Yes (laughing).  
   
 Q. But you've had a great day today compared to so many out on the course. What do you think you're doing?   
TERESA LU: I think the putting is good. I think some of the huge par saves, like the 18th hole, it was long, and I make it for par. So it was a good putting day.  
   
 Q. You seem upbeat and in high spirits; where a lot of people came off and were like, oh, it took a long time today. But you enjoyed yourself even?   
TERESA LU: Yeah, it's fun. It's fun to play in the rain and the wind. It's fun.   
   
 Q. The challenge of it?   
TERESA LU: Yeah.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT