TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 10, 2015
J.j. Gaines
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Iowa State - 31
  Texas Tech - 66
Q. How much did you (inaudible) this week and knowing that you were going to be playing that position?
J.J. GAINES: On Monday practice, Coach let me know I need to start learning it, and by the middle of the week, we just started practicing regularly, and he told me that's what my position was going to be this week.
Q. Had you played any safety in the first five games?
J.J. GAINES: No, it was my first game.
Q. (Inaudible.)
J.J. GAINES: I mean, it's a different scheme from in the past, but all the DBs be in the room at the same time, so we get all the same knowledge, so it wasn't too hard to switch positions.
Q. Is this the kind of defense that you wanted to play before the season started?  Is this the way you wanted to play all season long?
J.J. GAINES: Yes, we wanted to definitely be better on 3rd downs and get off the field and get the ball back to the offense because, you know, they can do amazing things with it in their possession.
Q. What's been the difference this season in the second half?  It seems like the defense is really playing a lot better in the second half of ballgames.
J.J. GAINES: I think the whole team is playing better in the second half.  Coach harped on coming out of the halftime like it's the first half.  You know, you've got to be energetic because if you don't do that, then the other team got the up on you.
Q. Can you walk us through those two plays, what you read and what you saw in the offense?
J.J. GAINES: Well, I was just reading the quarterback's eyes and he led me in the right place, and I was able to catch the ball.
Q. With the defensive coordinator being your position coach, what has that experience been like learning so closely, what that interaction has been like?
J.J. GAINES: He's tough, but that's what we need.  You've got to be hard on us when we make mistakes.  When you make a mistake in this league it's a touchdown, so he's hard on us, and we've just got to work to get better each week.
Q. The four games that you guys have won this year you've gotten a bunch of turnovers.  How much harder is it (inaudible) against a better team?
J.J. GAINES: It's just a team effort.  Everybody got to do their 1/11th, and we've made too many mistakes these past two weeks, and we've just got to practice each and every week to get better at it.
Q. What's the hardest part about transitioning to more zone defense where you have to look to the backfield and keep from getting (inaudible) and keeping your eyes on the quarterback like you talked about?
J.J. GAINES: I mean, you just backpedal, don't let the receiver get deeper than you are and read the quarterback's eyes, and he's obviously going to take you where the ball is going.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT