WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 23, 2020
Veronika Kudermetova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








V. KUDERMETOVA/Ka. Pliskova
7-5, 6-4
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
Q. When you were down early, 1-4 down, what did you say to yourself?  What adjustments did you make?  It seemed like from then you played a really incredible match.
VERONIKA KUDERMETOVA:   You know, I tried to not think about the score.  I tried to fight, tried to continue play like every ball, tried to enjoy like I play in the big stadium against first-seeded.
It was nice feel, and I tried to just fight and enjoy it.  And that's it.
Q. Did you find that you were reading her serve particularly well or something off the baseline?  I know she had a lot of aces, but you had a lot of breakpoint opportunities today.
VERONIKA KUDERMETOVA:   Yeah, I think in the beginning, in the middle of that first set I tried to feel like, you know, like the speed of her serve, tried to, how say, like, tried to push every point on the receive.  I think it was key.  I tried to just keep going on her serve.
Q. In terms of your preparation, obviously two very good wins and a lot of time on the court for you the last 48 hours, so you must be very pleased with your physical side of things as you restart.  I know you have already played some matches in some tournaments, but physically, how are you feeling?
VERONIKA KUDERMETOVA:   Physically I feel very well.  I'm very strong (smiling).
For me, it's better to play like long matches right now, because right now if you play long matches, you start to feel it again in your feeling on the court, like feel the point.  For me, it's a good opportunity to play, like, long matches right now.
Q. Can you just talk through what your preparation was like the last, you know, six months?  I know you mentioned it a little bit on the court that there was a lot of lockdown issues in Russia and stuff, but just talk through a lot of that.
VERONIKA KUDERMETOVA:   You know, when we locked out in Russia, first three months, I practiced like very slow, like just feel a little bit ball every week, like three practice in week.  Tried to enjoy like normal life, to improve my cooking every day (smiling).
And after three months, we start to practice a little bit more harder, like every day, like once in the day, just fitness, tennis, to improve some, like, technical thing.  And I think we do really good job about this six months.
Q. What's your best dish that you can cook?  What's your specialty?
VERONIKA KUDERMETOVA:   In the, like, this one six months, I improve, like, like my desserts, honey cake.  Like Russia, really nice.  When I try to do this, it's so nice.  I can do this.
Q. Do you feel a little bit like there almost isn't a No. 1 player or a No. 2 or No. 3 player like right now because everybody is starting fresh?  Is that the way you felt against her today?
VERONIKA KUDERMETOVA:   I think it's not I feel this.  I know she really good player.  I need to just keep working every point.  I have like good chance because I play yesterday.  She played just first match.
I feel a little bit more good condition than she.  I think it was maybe a little bit key of this match.
Q. You came a long way, and there were a lot of players who didn't come from Russia.  What went into your thinking as to decide to come here?  And how difficult will it then be to go on to Paris or to go on to Europe?
VERONIKA KUDERMETOVA:   When I came here, you know, I just really happy about restart of the season.  I not thinking about everything.  Just happy to again compete with the best players.
When we finish in USA, I think all of us, we have the same situation after we go in Europe, and we will see how it works after USA.
Q. This is your second top 5 win I think of -- I guess the first one was Wozniacki.  You have been able to get more and more kind of confidence-boosting performances I feel like the last year.  How different do you feel is your game right now compared to a year ago?  What is the biggest improvement that you and Sergey have made?
VERONIKA KUDERMETOVA:   I think it's just, you know, like how I say before, just keep working, start the first point, just working for it and that's it.  And I think I have, like, more confidence like last year, but I think it was the -- it was the good feeling right now.  I can compete with the best players.  And today I win.  I'm really happy.
Q. What do you think of yourself as, like, right now in terms of how you're playing?  Do you think you're playing top 30, you're a top 30 player, a top 20 player?  What do you think is your quality right now?
VERONIKA KUDERMETOVA:   I think if I play well, it's like maybe top 20 (smiling).  But I'm top 40.
Q. You're playing the top seed in the tournament.  What went right for you tonight that was the difference in winning over losing?
VERONIKA KUDERMETOVA:   I think it's given me, like, more confidence.  I can, like, beat and compete with the best players in the world.
I think, yeah, I have right now like more confident after this win.
Q. Did it disappoint you, she being such a great victory tonight, that there was no one there in the stands, fans to feed off of to be able to share the victory with?
VERONIKA KUDERMETOVA:   It's okay.  I have coach.  She have coach.  If somebody win, really help, doesn't matter if they have crowd or no.  Winning match, and we really happy about this one.  Fans can watch like video or something, but we happy after the win.
Q. Now that you've played a couple of matches over the weekend, I gather you've gotten used to the surroundings?  Sort of playing on the courts, seems like everything is in place for you?
VERONIKA KUDERMETOVA:   You know, I think right now I play really well.  I have yesterday the longest match, today a long match.  For me it's a good opportunity to play, like, right now with the good players and still feeling again after I start everything, my body, everything.
Q. You're sponsored by Armani?
VERONIKA KUDERMETOVA:   Yeah.
Q. You're the only player that has Armani as a sponsor as I think Fognini on the ATP.  How did that come about?
VERONIKA KUDERMETOVA:   We start of just this year.  It's first year we working together.  I'm really happy about this logo.
It was nice to play, like, one woman in WTA.  I was really happy about this one.
Q. You like being unique, the only one?
VERONIKA KUDERMETOVA:   It's nice.  For me, first time to feel like only one in the company.  It's a good chance for me (smiling).






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT