ROLAND GARROS
May 30, 2017
Chloe Paquet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
C. PAQUET/K. Pliskova   
6-7, 6-2, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.   
 Q.  A dream came true today, right?  
CHLOE PAQUET: Yes.  It is a dream.  First time at the French Open, and I made it.  Being French, you really want to do well, especially, you know, with a wildcard.  Things went very well.  It's just amazing.   
 Q.  At what point in the match did you feel you could make?  
CHLOE PAQUET: As a matter of fact, since Friday, since the draw we have been talking with the coach, and we both figured I could win.  I could win, and then that I was going to win.  When I arrived on the court, I immediately saw she was hitting the ball very well.  She's a great player.   
But I decided that if I could be here and now and play well from the very beginning, well, then I knew I could make a difference.  In the first set I was leading very quickly, 5-3.  Then things are going really fast in my mind.  I didn't really realize what was happening.  But I really tried to stay focused, and I knew I could do something really amazing.   
 Q.  So sometimes losing can destabilize you.  You were able to stay in control?  
CHLOE PAQUET: Yes, I lost 7-6.  But then I figured that if I played well in the second set I could play well.  I know that physically she hits very hard, but in terms of moving, she's not that great.  So at that point I decided that if I could make her move more in the second set, I could win.   
 Q.  Were you impressed about how you managed your match, including the difficult moments?  
CHLOE PAQUET: Huh.  You know, oftentimes it gets very complicated in my mind.  Sometimes I can be quite bad tempered and negative on the court.  But today was special.  It's my first time here at Roland Garros.  It's the first time I'm playing on such a court, and I really wanted to give it a positive image.  I didn't want to miss this.  I'm pretty happy, right (smiling)?   
 Q.  It's maybe a bit early to make big statements about your career, but this could change your career, right?  
CHLOE PAQUET: Yes, I took 70 points.  I now can qualify for the US Open.  I don't want to talk about money, but it's a lot of money.  It's a fact, you know.  At my level, as you all know, it can be quite complicated.  So this is a lot of oxygen also for my parents who support me all day long.  They have been supporting me for five years since I decided to become a professional player.   
So this is extremely positive.   
 Q.  Your father said that in the third set he was extremely anxious.  
CHLOE PAQUET: Did you interview my father?  I was not shaking.  I was just standing straight.  I knew that I was going to be okay, 2-0, 3-0, 4-0.  I decided, don't think about the score.  Don't think about the score.  I knew I didn't want to have any regrets.  Then I said, Okay, let's play point by point and pretend that every single point is the first point of the match.  This is how I was able to come back.   
I think maybe I managed things better than my dad did.   
 Q.  Could you tell us how you train?  Is your father training you?  
CHLOE PAQUET: No, I train with Stephane Charret.  We have been training for a year and a half.  My parents pay everything.  They pay Stephane, all my travel, all Stephane's expenses are paid for, as well.  As you can imagine, it is a lot of money.  I think they must be very happy today.  My parents, that is.   
 Q.  Next round is Caroline Garcia.  I know you both get along quite well.  Are you happy to meet her in the second round?  
CHLOE PAQUET: Yes, I'm absolutely delighted.  She's a great player.  She's a great person.  I think it will be on a good court.  Hopefully Lenglen or Chatrier.  It would be just incredible.  Caroline is a very good player.  I know it can be a very difficult match, but who knows?  The good news is no matter who wins, there will be a French player in the third round.   
 Q.  I believe you like football?  
CHLOE PAQUET: Yes, I love the Paris team PSG.  I try to attend all their matches, I try to go to the Parc des Princes as much as I can.  This year was not a good year for the Paris team, especially the match against Barcelona.  That was awful.   
I'm a big fan.  I wouldn't say I'm a football fan.  I'm a PSG fan.   
 Q.  (off microphone.)  
CHLOE PAQUET: Pastore, who is very often injured.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT