U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 5, 2019
Conner Beth Ball
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  It must be nice for you to play somewhere that you're familiar with, right?  
CONNER BETH BALL: Yes, Waverley is what I consider home.  It's where I grew up playing golf.  I love it.  We have a college event out here, and I've played countless tournaments, so it's really just nice to be able to have a hometown feel and have my family and friends come out and support me.   
 Q.  Do you feel like coming back here, it kind of brings your life and your career a little bit full circle?  
CONNER BETH BALL: It does, so actually funny story.  I watched Juli Inkster play in the 1999 Women's Open out here, and I was nine months old.  So really it was a little bit emotional when I walked out here and saw all the USGA signs up because I'm really just so grateful to play this game and where it's brought me, so I'm super excited to be here.   
 Q.  Day one is in books; how are you feeling right now?  
CONNER BETH BALL: You know, I'm feeling good.  Didn't have my best ball-striking day, but I'm feeling like there's going to be a comeback tomorrow, and I should be right around the cut line.  So just go out there and try and grind it out on moving day.   
 Q.  It's not every day someone gets to tee off to be the first ball at a USGA event.  
CONNER BETH BALL: Yeah, so that was super awesome.  I think they think they let me get off the first tee because I'm a hometown girl, and it just felt really good, piped it down the fairway, and I was like, all right, it's just another tournament.   
 Q.  What was it like having your family and friends here to watch you?  
CONNER BETH BALL: It was good.  It just feels good to be supported.  A lot of times we play tournaments so far away that you don't get that support of like multiple people.  It's typically just my mom and dad.  So to see my grandparents, their friends, our family out here, it just really felt nice to be right here at home.   
 Q.  Is one of your teammates caddying for you?  
CONNER BETH BALL: No, that's actually my golf coach.  So Coach Kory Henkes, our head coach, is out here for me caddying on the bag today, so super, super glad she was able to come out and help me.  It's always nice to have her.  It makes me feel more comfortable.   
 Q.  What's it like to play in this field?  
CONNER BETH BALL: So it's really incredible to play in this field.  We play college, and so it's the most elite level you can get.  So to be able to come out and not only compete with the highest level of college players but also the highest level of junior and post-college players is really something special.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT