UBS HONG KONG OPEN
November 16, 2012
Javier Colomo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How well did you play today?  
JAVIER COLOMO:   I played very solid from the tee again but I didn't have good luck on the greens because I didn't hole too many putts today.   But I hit very good putts, but not lucky.   But I'm happy because I fight all the day today from the first hole, strong wind again, so very difficult.   
I'm very happy in that position.   I love feeling the pressure with all these star players here.   For me, it's very good to have the chance to beat the world No. 1 or other very, very great players.  
   
 Q.   I saw on Twitter that you didn't sleep well.   
JAVIER COLOMO:   Yes, I don't understand why.   But my wife is sick with her stomach all the week, and me, I don't know why, but we didn't sleep very well.   I don't know why.   Maybe two hours.   So we need to rest this afternoon.   I don't know why.   
   
 Q.   Not just the excitement of leading the tournament and thinking of that?   
JAVIER COLOMO:   No, we finish yesterday very happy, all the people send message on the Twitter.   You know, you are on the bed and you are thinking of the round, tomorrow what happens.   But really, I was happy and relaxed.   
   
 Q.   If you read the local papers, you see a picture of you and your wife kissing, there's a big feature story, and a lot of people are asking how supportive your wife has been in your career so far.   She has caddied for you for how long, and how did it all start?   
JAVIER COLOMO:   This year.   This year from the second tournament maybe, because we travel together all the year.   She reads the greens very, very good, amazing.   It's too much better than me.   So, I believe her.   She say it's left edge and I hit left edge, and almost 99 per cent, it's right.   So it's very, very good help for me.   
   
 Q.   Who is the boss on the course?  
JAVIER COLOMO:   Who is the boss?   No, I am the boss.   Maybe at home, she is the boss.   But no, we are very, I don't know, we work together very well.   
   
 Q.   You've been married since when?   
JAVIER COLOMO:   Two years ago.   We honeymooned in New York.   I would say if I win a tournament, we will again go to New York.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT