UBS HONG KONG OPEN
November 15, 2012
Javier Colomo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How well did you play?
JAVIER COLOMO:   I played really, really good today.   From the tee, on the greens, everything. 

Q.   And after that turn, so many birdies?
JAVIER COLOMO:   Yeah, I was very relaxed after the first nine holes, and I had opportunities for birdies and I had luck on the greens.

Q.   How does this compare with other rounds you've played?   One of the best? 
JAVIER COLOMO:   You know, the golf, sometimes you play very good and the score doesn't come.   But today I played very well and I think the score is fine. 

Q.   How have you played on the Asian Tour this year? 
JAVIER COLOMO:   I'm playing really good, because this is my first season here.   The first six months, it was very hard for me and for my wife, but now we are more comfortable and more happy, perfect. 

Q.   Tell me why you play on the Asian Tour? 
JAVIER COLOMO:   Why?   Because the last year, I lost my card on The Challenge Tour and my category in the European Tour. 
So there's only one way to go to The European Tour.   I had luck to get the card and the Q‑School on the Asian Tour and now I am 33 in the rankings.   That's perfect, because next year I will play the co‑sanctioned tournaments with The European Tour. 
So it's a very good chance to improve, and why not to win a tournament and go to The European Tour. 

Q.   Sounds like it was a good move.   Is it an enjoyable move?   You like moving your family and staying here? 
JAVIER COLOMO:   In Asia?   No, not yet.   I think only I'm here with my wife.   I would like some family to come here to watch me playing, but it's very expensive at this moment.   We don't know what happens in the future. 

Q.   Where are you based? 
JAVIER COLOMO:   We are here for a few weeks.   We come and we play a few tournaments, I come back to Spain.   So we don't have a house here.   It's many times out of the home. 

Q.   Is that difficult, a lot of traveling, Spain to Asia all the time. 
JAVIER COLOMO:   Yeah, this time we are going to be here five weeks.   The last time we were seven weeks in a row.   The first time with the Q‑School, we were here nine weeks. 
So very tough, but very hard.   But I think this is very good for us.   We feel more strong mentally. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT