U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 9, 1999
Brian Barnes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







BRIAN BARNES: It was an effort. My feet are hurting; my hands are hurting. I wish I was
drinking, it wouldn't hurt quite so much. No, it is a nuisance.

Q. What is hurting?

BRIAN BARNES: I have got rheumatoid arthritis. I am having slight difficulties; not too
bad if you go around in buggies, but walking, as the round progresses, the feet start
swelling and everything begins to hurt a bit.

Q. Does the heat have something to do with that?

BRIAN BARNES: Sure. Yeah.

Q. What about this round; how about the thoughts on your round; 3-under par pretty
good?

BRIAN BARNES: In all honesty, all I was thinking and hoping for was the 18th hole.
Everything just -- I put one foot in front of the other and the golf was of secondary
importance. 69, lovely, don't get me wrong. But it was beginning to hurt so much towards
the last five or six holes that it was just, let's get in as quickly as possible. But you
can't get in quickly around here with these damn greens. You got the guys in front of you
holding you up.

Q. Conditions a lot different today than yesterday?

BRIAN BARNES: Yeah, no where near as much wind and a little bit of rain, of course,
softened the greens up a little bit more. So if you can manage to get the right club in
your hand, you could get the ball fairly close to the pin; which is what I did a few times
and fortunately not only close to the pin, but the right side of the pin; which is so
vitally important on these dire greens.

Q. Overall how would you rate this golf course?

BRIAN BARNES: The golf course is great. The greens are rubbish.

Q. Do you feel you'd win the Championship?

BRIAN BARNES: As I say, I am putting one foot in front of the other; that is all I am
really bothered about.

Q. Do you feel the greens are going to dry out a little bit with this wind and the sun
and the goes later this afternoon going to have a little tougher time?

BRIAN BARNES: Not really, no. They are going to get the same conditions -- possibly
not, actually, they might have slightly easier conditions than we had yesterday because of
course there wasn't any rain on Wednesday evening, Thursday morning. They have had it
today. We had it where the greens were a little slower this morning. They are still going
to be soft so they are still going to be able to play tighter golf. 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT