OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 6, 2013
Diana Luna
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Great position now for the tournament?  
DIANA LUNA:   Yeah, I'm very confident.   I'm playing very well.   I made a few mistakes but always well recovered.   So I think I'm going to have a good fun tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   What are your hopes now going into the final round?   Do you feel you'll be fighting for the victory?  
DIANA LUNA:   Well, I'm in contention of course.   They are like four or five shy‑‑ they are not finished yet.   They are a few shots in front of me but there is a chance.   The history proves there is a chance, so I will do my best and see what happens.  
   
 Q.   What about the conditions today, very fast greens?   
DIANA LUNA:   The greens are very fast, especially when you are playing down the grain.   It was a little windy this afternoon, so it's a testing golf course I think.   
You have birdie chances, but if you miss your shots, you're very quick in trouble.   It's a nice course.  
   
 Q.   What was your best shot of the day?   
DIANA LUNA:   Shot of the day, interesting question.   I had a beautiful shot on the 13th hole, the par5, a beautiful third shot that was with the wind and I managed to stop it very quickly.   
   
 Q.   Like tap‑in?   
DIANA LUNA:   No, not tap‑in but one metre, so not too far.   
   
 Q.   Everything was good today in your game?  
DIANA LUNA:   Yeah, yeah, everything was good.   I played pretty solid, good tee shots, putting was good.   I had a couple of 3‑putts early in the round, but I still managed to continue my work and then it paid at the end.  
   
 Q.   You haven't played for a while in the LET.   What have you been doing in those periods?  
DIANA LUNA:   Yeah, I took this like autumn season to stay with my family.   My daughter just got started to go to school.   I had some issues at home and I wanted to prepare well for next season.   Especially this year I haven't played many competitions because I was injured.   
   
 Q.   Where were you injured?  
DIANA LUNA:   My ribs, at the beginning of the year in Australia.   And then I started to be okay in May, so it was a little late in the season.   It's been I think a transition season and I'm preparing very well for 2014.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT