THE SOLHEIM CUP
August 20, 2009
Tania Elosegui
Diana Luna
Anna Nordqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   BETHAN CUTLER: Thanks for coming in. I'd like to welcome the European team rookies to the press conference area this morning. We have Diana Luna from Italy, Anna Nordqvist from Sweden, and Tania Elosegui from Spain. Perhaps, Diana, would you like to start with a few comments? How is the week going for you, your first Solheim Cup?   
 DIANA LUNA: The week is going great. I'm so happy to be here to represent Europe and Italy, my country. It's such a great week and a fantastic experience with all my teammates, and we are making a great team, I think.   
 BETHAN CUTLER: Anna, how are you enjoying the week so far?   
 ANNA NORDQVIST: It's been great so far. I've had a lot of fun. I mean, it's just so much fun to be around your teammates and learn from each other and just go out and play. I mean, it's great.   
 BETHAN CUTLER: Tania, same questions.   
 TANIA ELOSEGUI: A wonderful week. I think everything is different for us, the crowds, the organization, the presents we've got, everything, just great.  
 BETHAN CUTLER: What kind of presents have you received so far? You have a lot of presents in your room every day, don't you?  
 ANNA NORDQVIST: Yeah. What haven't we got?  
 BETHAN CUTLER: We'll take some questions.  
  
  Q. How does your game feel? Everybody is talking about this big event and about Europe might make history on U.S. soil. How does your own game feel, your golf?   
 DIANA LUNA: I'm pretty confident I'm playing very good, and I hope to give my best during this week.   
 ANNA NORDQVIST: Well, I think everyone is as prepared as they can be, and I think everyone is ready for the tournament to start, and I think everyone is feeling good about their games. So it's going to be exciting.   
 TANIA ELOSEGUI: Yeah, I think we're all playing great, so we'll see.   
  
  Q. Question for any of you. Is there still a case of the nerves, and is it bigger now before play actually begins, or would it be bigger before a big hole or during the first several days of competition?   
 TANIA ELOSEGUI: I think everyone is going to be nervous tomorrow, even the Americans. I think, I don't know, I think everyone is going to be nervous on the first tee. But that's something that we have to manage to handle.   
  
  Q. Tania, Alison told us yesterday about Ollie giving you a motivational video, I guess, and I understand you're friendly with him, maybe play some golf with him back home. What did that mean to you, his motivational speech, and has he said those things to you on a personal level?   
 TANIA ELOSEGUI: Olazábal, no? Yeah, it's amazing. I know him quite a lot. We practice a lot back in Spain, and he gave me some advice before coming here, and I received a little CD with his speech telling me things the other day. I was so impressed by what he did for us. He's just great.   
  
  Q. What things have you been doing together as a team this week so far? Can you tell us a few examples?   
 ANNA NORDQVIST: Well, I mean, everyone is in the team room when we're not playing, just having fun, playing some video games and some ping-pong. I mean, just having fun. We're listening to music, watching TV, just hanging out.   
 DIANA LUNA: Watching Alfie dancing, which is such a great experience, I think. Alfie, she is doing everything.   
  
  Q. You guys are rookies. Who are you learning the most from this week, the veterans on your team? I presume perhaps Alfie and Laura, but have they been able to help you in any particular ways to really get you prepared for this?   
 ANNA NORDQVIST: I think a lot of the -- not the older, I shouldn't say that. But I think a lot of the players with experience, they help you, and I mean, it's not only one person. I mean, all of them come with advice. I mean, we come together as a team, and I think -- they do help you, and I think they've really done a good job so far.   
 DIANA LUNA: I think they are really very nice to involve the rookies in all the team and to make us really part of the team, even as rookies. They absolutely don't let us feel like rookies, you know.   
 We're feeling completely part of the team, and they have been so nice, giving advice on how to cope with pressure, and they have been great so far.   
 BETHAN CUTLER: Thanks for joining us. Play well this week.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT