COSIDA CAPITAL ONE TEACHABLE TUESDAY WEBINAR
December 17, 2019
Nick Guerriero
Tommy Chasanoff
Amanda Radtke
Chris Mitchell
Jeremy Rosenthal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
NICK GUERRIERO: Good evening and welcome to today's CoSIDA Continuing Education Teachable Tuesday Webinar. Today's topic is Goodwill to All Men and Women and Dealing With Holiday Demands and Your Wellness.   
Before we begin, we'd like to say a quick thank you to two of our corporate sponsors, Capital One and ASAP Sports. Capital One is the sponsor of our continuing education and professional development series, while ASAP Sports provides the official transcript for each monthly webinar. As a reminder, the webinar and ASAP Sports transcript will be posted later today in the CoSIDA Connect, our membership online community. Please look for the links in the connect resource library off the main page.   
During the webinar today, you can ask your questions live to our presenters. Please use the chat box, which you'll find on the right-hand side of the portal. If you have questions for our presenters, know that we'll save time at the end of this webinar to address them. Today we'll do it a little bit differently as well. We'll ask the questions in between each presenter. So please send them to us.   
So the way we're going to do it, today is a little bit different. Each person, our presenters, is going to present, and they've got some slides to talk about their specific topics. So let's get started.   
Today our panelists are Tommy Chasanoff from the University of the Cumberlands, Amanda Radtke from the University of North Florida, Chris Mitchell from Washington University in St. Louis, and Jeremy Rosenthal of Indiana. Tommy, we'll get started with you and talk a little bit about some goals for the holidays.   
TOMMY CHASANOFF: Thanks, Nick. As everyone knows, when we talk about the new year, one of the big things with New Year's is setting your New Year's resolution. There's two main ways to do that. That's with setting both personal and professional resolutions.   
As we move to the next slide, we talk about -- a lot of people talk about their personal resolutions, whether it's lose weight, get in shape, or anything work/life balance, but balancing needs to apply to your professional development, whether it's increased presence on social media or trying to create a new goal, just so we can continue to improve from day to day and from year to year.   
The big thing is, when you're setting goals, try for SMART goals, being specific, measurable, attainable, relevant, and a time-based goal, having multiple checkmarks along the way to monitor your progress and make sure that you are staying on top of those goals and meeting those end resolutions.   
As we move to the next slide, I came up with two, one personal, one professional, goals to kind of demonstrate what that actually means. For me, a personal goal would be to run a 20-minute 5K at the CoSIDA 5K in June. In order to do that, I know measurable means I need to run five days a week. I need to make sure I'm putting in the time.   
Attainable, currently my PR is 21: 30, so in a four month span or six month span, getting from 21: 30 to a 20-minute flat 5K is a very attainable goal as long as I make sure that I have progress along the way, and one of the ways that I can do that is develop ways to improve my fitness, which obviously is something that's really important to all of us. But also, I'm going to do multiple 5Ks, maybe do one 5K every month to see how my progression so I can reach that end goal of the 20-minute flat 5K by June.   
Professionally, I set a goal of creating an Adobe Spark page for an awards show that we do every spring. So to help make that more measurable, try to create one Spark story per month. Attainable, it's very attainable through Adobe Spark, through experience, and through tutorials. Development is you have a quality story that we can highlight our student-athletes at the awards and also a great way to reflect back on the tremendous year we've had here at University of the Cumberlands.   
And a timeline, the awards show is April 20 of 2020, so I have a four-month goal of trying to reach that timeline. If I do monthly Adobe Spark pages leading up to it, that will give me three practice pages before the goal of April 20th, 2020, of hitting that Adobe Spark goal and hitting my professional resolution this year.   
NICK GUERRIERO: Thanks, Tommy. We'll jump over now to Amanda, who's going to talk a little bit about meal prep. Be sure to send in your questions, and we'll circle back in a little bit, get some questions, and we'll start with that. Amanda, let's talk a little bit about some meal prep.   
AMANDA RADTKE: Good morning, or afternoon, I guess. I am talking about meal prep. I usually do meal prep, but I have been on the road pretty much all of November and a little bit into December. So I'm just going to start with basically the meal prep and why I do it, how I do it, and what you may need to start.   
So on the next slide, why meal prepping is great for our profession is the first one for me is you save money. I know right off the bat I have been -- not wasting, but I have been spending more money on food because I haven't been meal prepping because I've been going out to eat, and that kind of sucks. Don't have a lot of money to begin with, so obviously, saving money is key. The other thing is I save time. I don't have to think in the morning when I get up what I'm going to eat. I don't have to think at lunch. And I definitely do not have to think about it in the evening when I get home, when I'm with my son, when I'm preparing it for my husband, who works late as well. So it works.   
It allows me to add healthy foods on our busy days. Instead of eating pizza all the time, hot dogs, whatever. Obviously, those are good treats to have here and there, but I need to make sure I'm getting fruits and vegetables and all the good stuff.   
Then obviously, it saves our sanity because, again, if you aren't meal prepping, I highly recommend it because, if you are taking a lot of time out of your day because you're constantly thinking about what you're eating, you're wasting time and you're going to go a little bit nuts.   
Next slide. The big thing with people is always how do I get started? They seem really overwhelmed at first. So I always talk about, like Tommy kind of did, was start with that attainable thing. If you've never meal prepped before, pick a week, and you're like, okay, I'm going to prep breakfast all this week and be ready for it and eventually work up so that you're prepping most of your meals the week before.   
So for me, I am usually prepping lunch and dinner. Those are the two big ones for me. For breakfast, I often just have a protein shake or something like that. Then I prep -- I figure out when I need to prep. So mine usually is on Sundays, but based on my sports schedule or whatever, I look at a week that I know that I have one to two hours to put into totally prepping things for the week, and that includes cutting up fruits and vegetables so they're grab and go and whatever.   
Then the final one is how I get down to business. It sounds ridiculous, but it's the fact that I have my cutting boards out, my kitchen is clean, my Tupperware that I need is readily available, there's room in the fridge. So all of that stuff is ready to go, and I pick my day. Next slide.   
So like I was saying, a few kitchen essentials. My stuff is clean -- cutting board, knives. Hopefully, most of us are adults by this point, so we have these things in our kitchens, but the big thing for me that I found is meal prep containers or just Tupperware. You can get them at Target like 20 for $10 or on Amazon. I personally like the glass ones. I feel like they last a little bit longer. Yes, they do take up a bit of room sometimes, but they work. You can also, like I said, just use regular things that you get at the grocery store.   
I highly recommend a Crockpot or an Instant Pot. Crockpots are so easy for us because we can throw something in in the morning and it will be ready by the time we get home. I have actually brought a Crockpot to work before, so it just kind of depends. And my new favorite love is an Instant Pot. If you don't have one, I highly recommend getting one. You can cook frozen chicken breasts in about 20 minutes without anything. The other thing I like to do is muffin tins because you can use muffin tins for a variety of meals. You can use them for muffins, but you can also use them for baked oatmeal, you can use it for egg cups and other things like that. And then zip-lock bags and cling wrap are my other two go to products to have on hand. Zip-lock bags because you can make smoothies in advance, you can cut up your fruits and vegetables if you're not using Tupperware. And cling wrap, I just like it better than Saran wrap or foil.   
This may seem like a lot, so I'll be happy to break this down for anybody. This is kind of what a weekly meal plan for me would look like. At the top I put notes. I'm on the road this day, so I know I have to have things that are going to be easy to use or to take with me or I can heat up, and then I have a home game, and then I also even put in when I meal prep. My caloric intake is 1,800 to 2,000 calories, and that is to lose weight. There is different ones to maintain, but you can see underneath the menu or underneath the plan how to find your caloric needs, and this will all be on the article after this call.   
You can see at the top I kind of put what my breakdown is. This is based on the 21-Day Fix eating plan and kind of how that's operated, but you can see that a lot of things are repeated, by means you're going to make excess of it and have that ready for each day. You can see things a lot are grab and go, some things that don't need to be heated, et cetera, et cetera.   
For me, dinner is usually the biggest meal of the day even though it's not supposed to be, but that's kind of how it works out. Again, in a nutshell, this is what mine works out. Something else could work for you, which is great, but this is what mine is. So next slide.   
So based on that meal plan, again, this is going to be included in the article, I have provided our people with a Crockpot meal plan. This is the grocery list for it. If you want to go to the next one. So this is actually the meal plan. It literally is laid out, breakfast, lunch, dinner, and two snacks per day. It gives you what you need, how you're going to prepare it, and a lot of these are in the Crockpot, like I said. All the dinners are in the Crockpot, I believe. So it's kind of like a set it and forget it, and you don't have to really think about it. And the best thing about most of the snacks and whatnot are they're really easy to take with you anywhere.   
I don't know, I have like six lunch boxes. That's another thing. I have thermal lunch boxes that I take. Like I said, this is obviously a lot, but you're going to be able to see it on the website. So that's kind of what I would say the biggest thing with meal planning is be prepared, want to save money, and just want to do it. I promise, once you kind of get over the hump of your first couple times, it will get easier, and you'll get better at it, and you will in the end see a lot of value in it.   
NICK GUERRIERO: Thanks, Amanda. Here's a question that came in, and it's kind of an interesting one. How do you meal prep when you're on the road traveling with the team?   
AMANDA RADTKE: So when I'm on the road, a lot of times, obviously, meal prep is going to look a lot different. So in that calendar, you can see I was on the road. Hopefully, you know what you're going to eat. So you can see on Wednesday I had breakfast casserole because we're going to leave that day, so I'll be at home in the morning. Then I'll probably make my smoothie ahead of time and have that on the road. Same thing with lunch, turkey wrap is very doable on the road, or if you know that you're going to a Jimmy John's or a Panera or whatever, you can do that.   
This one just happened to be -- I actually probably didn't eat this dinner with being on the road, but, again, it just goes back to, if you know where you're going, just make smarter choices and figure out what you can plan. For me, we go to Tropical Smoothie a lot. If you look at the calories and sugar in a lot of the Tropical Smoothie's smoothies, they are not as good for you as you think they are. That's another thing to do your research. So I have a different protein shake that's better for me, that doesn't have a lot of sugar in it, and you kind of pay attention to that.   
Snacking, I make sure that my snacks are better, or if the team has snacks, I'm picking the right ones. I'm not eating the Cheez-Its or the fruit snacks or whatever. So that's kind of the best way I can say that.   
NICK GUERRIERO: Next question coming in is post-game meals. Obviously, after a game, teams are either getting on a bus or even home games. What's a good post-7:00 meal to eat that's, one, healthy, but, two, is going to kind of tide you over for the remainder of the day.   
AMANDA RADTKE: One of the things that I was kind of taught is that you don't want to eat your carbs late in the day. You'd rather have them earlier in the day to keep you energized. For us, again, thankfully, we plan our menus in advance, and so a lot of times we know where we're going to be, and that's when you just have to use your -- you have to use your idea of health and what you think is going to be the right choice.   
For example, tomorrow I'm going to be at Florida State. We're getting pizza after the game. Well, as long as I haven't gorged all day long, I can have a pizza after the big game. It's not going to ruin my whole thing. The problem would be is, if I ate pregame and I had three chicken breasts and a huge scoop of mashed potatoes and then one piece of broccoli. So you have to figure out the balance, kind of your 80/20 rule, and I think the 20, when you're on the road, comes in a lot. Your 20 percent is going to be when you're out of your routine and not as normal.   
NICK GUERRIERO: Cool. Thanks, Amanda. We'll slide over to Jeremy now to talk a little bit about some fitness keys and talk a little bit about, as we get prepared for our convention.   
JEREMY ROSENTHAL: There I am. Hey, everybody. So I'm really excited to talk a little bit about some of the things we've got in the works.   
The fitness challenge is a concept we started within the last couple of years, and it's been really great to see people kind of come together and motivate, kind of encourage each other, and really provide some great support. So we've got the CoSIDA Fitness Challenge, and then next we'll talk a little bit -- next slide. We'll talk a little bit about the 5K. This year will be a special occasion in Las Vegas at the convention as we celebrate the 10th anniversary of this event.   
So going to the next slide now, I think two keys of fitness success are here. I found this in my own kind of personal kind of fitness journey. I think one thing that's really important is to have a plan. Tommy talked a little bit about that when he talked about one of his goals of running a certain time for the 5K. So one of the things that he said was that I'm going to run five days a week. So that's part of the plan. I think part of the plan is knowing exactly what kind of exercise you're going to do on each day, whether it's going to be a 20-minute run, a 30-minute run, whatever it is. I think it's important to have a plan so you know what you're doing and you can kind of get out of bed and say this is what I'm doing today, and that can carry over and help you achieve those goals and keep on what you wanted to do.   
I also think it's real important to have a support group and to find people that can encourage and can motivate you. I think that's really important. I think that helps you get out of bed and helps hold you accountable. So I think those are two of the keys to fitness success. So when I think about creating this kind of fitness challenge, those are two areas that I wanted to focus on. So one thing, we talked about a plan. Within our committee and as we build towards this fitness challenge, we're going to present a sample training plan that's going to be a 10-week plan leading up to the 5K at the convention. This will give you, whether you're a beginner or more experienced, there will be different options, and this will give you some ideas of how you can get started and how you can kind of build towards what you want to do.   
If we go to the next slide, the next kind of portion of it would be when I talk about finding that support and encouragement. So what we're going to seek to do with this is to have different groups so everybody that signs up for this fitness challenge would be divided into different groups. We've got several people that are interested in kind of helping lead these groups. So I'm calling these kind of team captains, people that are going to lead these groups, send out different things to support and encourage and get kind of the conversation and the motivation kind of going. So several people, I'm happy to say, that I've been in touch with are excited about this concept and doing this.   
If you're interested, we're looking for a few more people to get involved. If you're interested in being a team captain or want to know a little bit more, just shoot me an e-mail, and I think that will be something that will be really cool for the fitness challenge and then going into the 5K too, it will be a fun way to have teams and a little bit of friendly competition.   
If we go to the next slide, the fitness challenge, how I've kind of laid it out is based on running and walking, but there's a lot of different ways that you can exercise and practice good fitness habits. So I just kind of jotted down a few here. There's a lot of other things that you can do, but these are just a few kind of examples of things you can do. The bottom line is just do something, get out and do something.   
Next slide. These are some benefits of exercise brought to you by Grandpa Roy here. Obviously, there's a lot of different benefits of exercise. I've put down a bunch here. I think from my personal experience, I think other people can probably test this. It just makes you feel better to get up and go for a run, go for a walk. For me, it just sets me up for the rest of the day. I think it makes me more happy, more engaged, more productive at work. I just feel better. So there's a bunch of different benefits out there. So I would encourage you, like I said, to come up with a plan and something that you want to do that you can benefit from.   
Next slide. So as we kind of talk a little bit more about the 5K for this summer at the convention, it's something that's been a lot of fun for us to kind of put on and work on with our committee and also just to see everybody come out and engage with each other and support each other, do something that's really fun and really benefits from a fitness perspective.   
It's also, I have there we've been able to raise over $25,000 for charities over the lifetime of this event, and that's something that's really awesome, and Chris is going to talk a little bit more soon about our community service.   
So if we go to the next slide, just a few things. The 5K this summer, like I said, it's going to be a really awesome event, really excited. It's the ten-year anniversary. It's going to be right there on the property of the hotel. Last year we did these custom designed medals for the 5K. We'll have another medal for a finisher medal this year, so I'm real excited about that. We can go to the next slide. That's the last slide.   
Thank you. If you have any questions, let me know if you want to be involved with the fitness challenge. Just really excited about what we have in the works for this year.   
NICK GUERRIERO: Thanks, Jeremy. We'll slide over now to Chris Mitchell to talk a little bit about our volunteer program.   
CHRIS MITCHELL: Thank you, Nick. Thank you, Jeremy and Tommy and Amanda, which is three of our Goodwill and Wellness Committee members that spoke today.   
The first thing I want to talk about is giving back, especially around the holidays. A lot of us are spending time giving back in your community, so I want to talk a little bit about the volunteer 15 program. Obviously, many of our CoSIDA members are a part of that. Next slide, please.   
Through the Volunteer 15 program, we recognize those in CoSIDA who give at least 15 hours of giving back. As you can see, last year we recorded over 7,000 hours, which is a CoSIDA record. I do want to give a shout out to Megan Jameson at St. Edwards. She has been in charge of our Volunteer 15 program now for a couple of years and has done a great job.   
One thing we just wanted to kind of point out is little things that count also count as Volunteer 15. If you'd like to make a meal for someone who's sick or helping someone move, those kinds of things count. Also, serving on committees. We have some CoSIDA members who have been volunteer firemen, Little League baseball coaches, those kinds of things. That all counts towards Volunteer 15. I know a lot of us don't think about registering these hours early on in the year because there's a while until this program concludes this year, but you have until the end of June 2020 to put your Volunteer 15 hours in at CoSIDA.com.   
A couple nuggets here. Please use #volunteer15 when posting on social media if you share any of your giving back over this holiday break. And Megan wanted me to post this to all of our members. She would like to start posting a few updates on social media on Twitter, some quotes and photos that you can send to Megan. You can see her e-mail there, mhardin@stedwards.edu. The first question is why do you volunteer? And the second question is what volunteering means to you. So if you have a good answer and some photos for those two questions, two comments there that we've posted, please e-mail Megan Jameson at St. Edwards, and she will be using those starting in January to hopefully rev up the Volunteer 15 program as we move into the 2020 year.   
Next slide, please. So Ryan Davis at the Missouri Valley Conference has been in charge of our community service project at CoSIDA each year, and I wanted to speak for a few minutes about what we have brewing for CoSIDA 2020. So on Sunday, June 7 -- and we're still working on the time -- we're going to host an event, which will be onsite this year. In the past, we've gone off site. We've also been onsite a few times. This will be at the Mandalay Resort in Las Vegas. We're going to be working with Three Square's Pack and Give Back program.   
How this would work, the attendees would pack weekend bags of food for insecure children in Southern Nevada. A stat that Ryan shared with me is one in five children in their community live in an insecure home. So through this Backpack for Kids program, every Friday Three Square, which is the company we'll be working with, provides 4,500 bags of weekend food for children at 250 schools.   
So how the community service project will work is Three Square will bring the product that we will be packing into the backpacks to Mandalay Bay about an hour or two prior to our community service project. Now, the cost is going to be $7 per bag. So if we do 500 bags in the 90-minute period that we have reserved for this community service project, it would be $3,500 donation, which we think, after doing the research, is very doable.   
We can even encourage CoSIDA members to make a Lucky $7 donation in the months leading up to CoSIDA to help pay for this. As you can see on the slide there, we are committed to making 500 bags, and we would pay for that with the 5K funds. But what we would like to do is do a really good job of promoting the Lucky 7, so for every member maybe that is not able to, one, come to CoSIDA or, two, participate in our community service because there might be something else going on that day, we'd love for them to donate $7, and that would be one more bag that we would be able to donate to the Three Square's Pack and Give Back program.   
Like I said, we anticipate the community service project to last around 90 minutes. Obviously, the more money, the more Lucky 7s that we can get donated means the more bags we're going to pack and the longer that this community service project will last. So it could last up to two hours. As you can see, this is what we've got brewing for the community service project. It will be on Sunday, June 7, and it will be a 90-minute window, and it will be onsite. So hopefully, we'll have many of our CoSIDA members giving back at our community service project.   
NICK GUERRIERO: So a couple of questions just came in. Can you just talk a little bit -- I know you mentioned it before, but how do people get involved in community service projects at the convention even if you can't attend that specific session? Like what are ways you can donate if you can't be there?   
CHRIS MITCHELL: Obviously, we talked a little bit about the Lucky 7 program. That's a great way that you can give back. Also, the best way you can give back is to give back within your community or within your school. At Wash-U here, most of our teams go out and give back with community service projects. I always try to tag along there to shoot some video and get some photos of that. It's really important to share what the student-athletes are doing off the court and out of the classroom.   
NICK GUERRIERO: Awesome. I want to thank everyone for joining us today as we talk a little bit about ways to get involved in your community as well as stay healthy on the road this year. I'd like to thank our corporate sponsors once again, Capital One and ASAP Sports for their continuing support of our Professional Development Series, and a reminder you can find this on demand webinar and the ASAP transcript on CoSIDA Connect, our membership portal, later this afternoon.   
We're looking forward to our next webinar, which is going to come on January 28. We're going to talk about the components of a strong mentee and mentor relationship. This webinar will be coordinated by the mentorship program, so please check CoSIDA.com and the social media channels for updates and registration. Thank you to everyone for joining us, and I want to wish everyone a happy holidays.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT