CITI OPEN
August 2, 2019
Jamie Murray
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








KLAASEN-VENUS/Murray-Murray
6-7, 7-6, 1-0
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Andy, how are you feeling after the practice sessions here, a couple of tough matches?  Where are you at on the comeback trail thinking about singles, Cincinnati, what you talked about on Monday?
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I mean, I feel fine.  I'm just disappointed just now that we lost obviously the match.  Practice has been fine.  No issues physically.  So progressing well.  Just keep practicing the next 10 days or so, see what happens.
If I feel like I'm ready, I'll give it a go.  If I'm not, then I'll wait probably until after New York.  But so far it's just been fine.
Q. Jamie, was there a story behind your serve motion?  There's a big step between when you first start your motion, when you finish your motion.  When did that start or originate, or was it always normal?
JAMIE MURRAY: I don't know when that started.  I've been doing it for a long time.  I mean, if I could stop, I would stop doing it because often it affects my sort of toss and stuff.
Yeah, I find it too difficult to change it now.  It would be too big a thing to do.  Yeah, it just is what it is really.
Q. What are your takeaways from this week?  Do you foresee the opportunity of teaming together again before the end of this season in any tournaments?
JAMIE MURRAY: Well, I think we've played two good matches.  It was obviously disappointing to lose at the end after having match points, being up in both tiebreaks.
But, yeah, we played a lot of good tennis.  I mean, it's good fun to play with Andy again, see him out there competing, fired up to play, and playing really well.
For me, I guess it was a positive week.  Disappointing obviously to lose the way we did.  But that happens in doubles sometimes.
Q. Andy, I think I get the idea, but between Cincinnati and New York is Winston-Salem.  Is that just too close for you?  Would you consider doing something there if the situation merited or is that too close to the Open to think about it?
ANDY MURRAY: I just -- I don't know.  Probably wouldn't see the point necessarily in doing it.  I guess the idea of playing singles potentially before the US Open is to see if possibly I'd be ready to play at the US Open.  I've never competed the week before a slam.
Really if I'm not ready sort of five or six days beforehand, then I'm assuming that I'll probably just give it a miss.  Giving it sort of three or four more weeks is probably a positive thing.  I can work more physically, like, that week, practice, and try to continue to get better.
Q. It's probably common for you to think about the match afterwards, what maybe you could have done.  Anything strategically, any particular points where you were thinking after the match, I wish I had done something different?
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, well, I think like towards the end of the match, I mean, they hit some good returns.  Maybe could have served a bit better on some of the points in the tiebreak.  Maybe wasn't kind of as aggressive - for me anyway - as I would have liked to have been on some of those serves.
I think both of us had been serving kind of extremely well up to that point.  We didn't get broken, I don't think, in either of the two matches that we played.
Then, yeah, just felt like in those moments, maybe slowed the serve down a little bit, gave them a chance to hit clean returns, which we hadn't been really doing for most of the match.  I would have liked to have served a little bit better in the big moments.
Q. Do you have any regrets when you started your professional career, any regrets throughout the career, that you may look back on which you wish you did something differently?
JAMIE MURRAY: I mean, probably wished I would have maybe listened to my coaches more at certain times in my career, especially when I was starting out, playing on the doubles tour.  Probably lost a couple of years in my career there, maybe three years, kind of faffing around and stuff.  Yeah, I would probably say that.
But, I mean, certainly the last five, six years for me has been exciting to play, like, at the top of the doubles game, coming to these sort of events knowing you've got a chance to win.
Yeah, that's kind of what motivates me to sort of keep working hard, looking after my body, listening a bit better.
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, there's lots of things I think everyone would do better if they could.  But you don't always know.  We started careers, both of us have been playing at the highest level of what we do since we were 18, 19 years old.
If you thrust someone in to be the CEO of a big company 18, 19 years old, I'm sure they would make some mistakes along the way.
Yeah, there's lots of things I would do differently.  But you kind of do the best with what you know at the time.  If I knew now - I'm going to get this wrong (laughter).  If I knew sort of what I know now back then, yeah, I would have done many things differently.  But that's the way it goes.
Q. Andy, I actually can't remember when you last played together before this, but did you learn anything from your brother this week?
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I mean, Jamie's got one of the best net games, doesn't matter singles or doubles, on the tour.  He volleys better than most of the guys that play the game nowadays.
Yeah, there's always stuff that I can learn from him because a lot of the things that he does really well on the court would be sort of my weaknesses.  I think that's why we play good doubles together, because we normally complement each other's games well.
Yeah, I can obviously learn from him because of how well he plays up at the net.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT