CITI OPEN
July 31, 2019
Andy Murray
Jamie Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MURRAY-MURRAY/Mahut-Roger-Vasselin
6-4, 6-7, 10-5
Q. How fun was that out there today?
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I mean, the level of tennis I thought was really good.  I mean, the doubles matches are tough because they turn on a few points.  I felt we were in control for the most part.  We were never behind in the match until 3-2 in the final set tiebreak.  Obviously you start to overthink a little bit.
But we played some good points, got a few maybe fortunate shots at the end.  I think we deserved it.
JAMIE MURRAY: Yeah, I think it was a great match, really high-level match, two good teams.  They make a lot of returns, then they're so good from the baseline.  Great serving team, sharp up at the net always.  Had a lot of battles with these guys in the past.
I think today for us, to get the opportunity to come out and play tennis again together was really special.  Yeah, really excited to get another match.  Hopefully get out and get to play on center court again.  It's a great showcase for doubles.
Yeah, it was a lot of fun.  A lot of fun.
Q. You played together at Davis Cup before.  Being out here in front of these Washington fans, they seemed to really get behind you out there.
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I mean, it was nice.  Maybe a little bit cooler today, so a bit easier for everyone to come out and watch.
Yeah, it was a good atmosphere.  I feel maybe I'm being biased because we were out there.  I felt like there were some good points, quick reactions.  That's what you want to see in doubles.  Sometime in grass court doubles, the points go quite quickly, whereas a little bit more is happening in the hard court doubles.  Hope everyone enjoyed it.
Q. If you cast yourself back 12 months, you sat in that chair over there, the journey you yourself have been on in that time, how are your emotions about that?
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I had a lot of emotions really.  I'm in a much better place now than I was last year.  Even though I was winning singles matches, physically I just feel so much better.  I have no pain.  It's not restricting me in any of the shots that I'm hitting.  I'm still maybe a little bit slow.  I'm hoping that's something that comes back with time.
Look, I didn't know how much more I was going to be playing after here last year.  Yeah, to come back and be competing and be pain-free is brilliant.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT