NITTO ATP FINALS
November 17, 2018
Jamie Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








SOCK-BRYAN/Murray-Soares
6-3, 4-6, 10-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Third crack at it.  You were up against a tough team.
JAMIE MURRAY: Yeah, I mean, disappointing to lose obviously.  Was a good level match, high level match.  A lot of good points being played.
We finished the second set strongly, created a lot of opportunities I felt going into the tiebreak.  Kind of got down a little bit quite quickly.  Jack played a great shot at 5-2 to get them the second mini break, then we didn't really come back with that.
I mean, it was a good match.  I was enjoying playing it.  Lots of different styles of play on the court, which makes it interesting.  But, yeah, disappointed obviously to come up short again at this stage.
Q. (No microphone.)
JAMIE MURRAY: Don't know.
Q. You played some very good tennis coming into this match.  Were your hopes higher this semifinal than maybe before?  Does that make it a bit harder to take?
JAMIE MURRAY: Not really.  I mean, last year we played two great matches to qualify for the semis, then we just got a bit outplayed.  The year before we won all three matches playing good.  Came out a bit flat, ended getting outplayed again by another team.
I thought we had a great chance to win today.  I'm slur they thought they had a great chance to win, too.  Two pretty evenly matched teams, I would say, on paper.  Came down to a tiebreak.  They played better at the end than we did.
Q. How does playing Mike and Jack compare to Mike and Bob?  What difference is there?
JAMIE MURRAY: Well, I mean, Mike obviously is playing on the other side, so it's a bit maybe different serving to him.  I guess sort of a different type of tennis, obviously, Jack's playing to Bob.  They proved it's just as effective.
I don't feel them so much as like a team as the Bryans are.  Obviously Jack is a great player.  They can make up for that, maybe sort of less team element of it, if you like.  Obviously Bob and Mike played a gazillion matches together.
Q. What will you do for the off-season, brief as it is?  Where will you start off next year?
JAMIE MURRAY: We start in Doha.  I'm going to go to Florida to train sort of mid December, over Christmas, then go from there to Doha.
Q. The future of this event in London could potentially be over in 2021.  Endorse London, if you would.  Would you like to see this event stay here or would you want it to move around?
JAMIE MURRAY: I like it here.  I think it's obviously been hugely successful when it's been in London.  The turnout they get for the crowds...  I think they're obviously exploring other options, seeing what's out there.
But I think Chris is quite open about, if they are to move it, it's going to have to be guaranteed to be as good as London.  Where in the world can you sell out all these sessions Monday to Sunday?  It's very difficult to do.
I don't know if they've maxed out on London yet.  Maybe the ATP don't think that either.  I think they're smart to kind of see what else is out there.
But I think it will be difficult for them to kind of say, Okay, this is actually a step up from what we currently have.
Q. How would you sum up your year?  What are you expecting for next year?
JAMIE MURRAY: I think we did okay.  I mean, we finished 4, I think.  On paper that's pretty good.  We were never really contending for No. 1.  The guys that finished 1 had an amazing start to the year.  Our first half of the year wasn't that great in terms of results and putting points on the boards.
For me, you know, I put a lot into my tennis.  I want to be the best.  I want to finish at No. 1 or compete for that.  So from that aspect, it was probably a bit disappointing.
I think we played a lot of really good tennis the second half of the year.  Our results showed that.  We won a lot of matches.  We played some good tennis here, winning three matches against three of the top eight teams in the world.  I think that will give us hopefully good momentum going into next year.
Q. (No microphone.)
JAMIE MURRAY: Try to be No. 1.  I mean, that's what we're here for, yeah.
Q. On the same theme, coming into Wimbledon, we were thinking you've been together for a while, you might be coming to the end.  The second half of the season makes it look like it might be a partnership with a lot left in it.
JAMIE MURRAY: Yeah, I think we know how good we can be when we're playing our level, you know, doing our thing.  I think we showed that the second half of the year.  We showed it here this week as well with the level of performance that we had.
So I still think there's a lot left to kind of get out of the partnership, for sure, yeah.
Q. What has it been like for you being able to be at home all week this week?
JAMIE MURRAY: Well, I mean, it's nice to play in London obviously.  I spent some nights at home, I spent some nights at the hotel here.  I mean, I enjoy it.  It's nice to be able to sleep in your own bed some nights, kind of home comforts, things like that.  Mentality-wise, it's nice.  You can kind of switch off from things a bit more.  Yeah, just feel more relaxed when you're at home.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT