WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 19, 2018
Bruno Soares
Jamie Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MURRAY-SOARES/Cabal-Farah
4-6, 6-3, 10-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions.
Q. Nine titles, two slams, 117 wins, and your maiden Masters.  Not bad.  Well done.  For you, I mean, the guys seemed to start slow and they picked up the pace.  Can you talk to us a little bit about the second set and how you got that final tiebreak?
BRUNO SOARES: Yeah, the first set was a bit strange, because we had a really good start.  We went up 3-1, Love-40, didn't manage to get a second break.  And then they came back from 4-2 to win the set.  It's not a good feeling, because we started the match really well, and then all of a sudden we lose four in a row and you're down a set.
But the one good thing we have been doing, especially this week, we never panicked, we never, you know, got negative or anything.  So kept playing our game.  We knew it was working.  We just have to readjust something, and that's what we did.
We played a great second set.  Then finals, big event, tiebreak, it's gonna be drama, for sure.
Q. Jamie, when you had that kind of dip, the break in the end of the first set, how does Bruno help you lift up to get into the next set?
BRUNO SOARES: I don't help (smiling).  The only thing it can be is that I'm very calm.  It doesn't bother.  But I'm not helping him.  I'm not saying anything.  He's not gonna say that, but let's see his answer.
JAMIE MURRAY: Yeah, like he said, he just kind of stays calm and rides it out and stays there for each point, point by point.
And like he said, you know, we kind of messed up the first set a little bit and after being so on top at the start.  And we came back strong in the second set.  We kind of kept the aggression in our play, kept going for it, and, you know, fought back well.
Q. You book-ended the US Open Series.  You won Washington.  You've won here.  Just a few words about how your confidence is now going to -- you're not playing Winston-Salem?
JAMIE MURRAY: No, no.  We're going to New York today.  Yeah, look, for us to win Washington and to win here is amazing.  I mean, Washington is one of the most difficult tournaments of the year.  You know, there was like 40, 45, or something.  There is only the top teams, just like the Masters tournaments.
We were really excited to win there.  And then obviously to come here and win the Masters, especially after probably kind of a disappointing performance last week, was huge.  So, you know, we practiced hard, we put our time in on the courts.  We got our reward this week.  I think we fought really well in a lot of difficult moments, a lot of close matches.  To win the tiebreaks the way we did was really pleasing.
Q. Congrats on the win, but I have a question for both of you gentlemen with respect to the changes coming in Davis Cup.  Your thoughts?
JAMIE MURRAY: My thought is Davis Cup has been dying for a long time.  A lot of people in tennis have been asking to change the format in some way.  They obviously got big backers who came to them and wanting to put in money.  You know, I hope the event's a big success, because that's great for tennis.
Obviously the change to the format with the schedule and stuff is obviously not ideal, I'm sure, for a lot of the top players, but I think they will obviously try to work to get a better setup to kind of enhance the chances of the sort of real superstars of the sport playing.
Q. Bruno, your thoughts?
BRUNO SOARES: Yeah, similar thought, just adding to that.  I think Davis Cup needed a change.  I don't know if it's the right one or not, but I think at least right now they are trying something.  Players have been asking for some sort of change for a long time, and finally, I mean, at least...
JAMIE MURRAY: Not just players.  It's not just the players.
BRUNO SOARES: Yes, exactly.  It's a lot of people.  It's challenging in so many ways, Davis Cup.  And I think they are trying now.
We don't know the answer for that, if the format is going to work, if it's going to be successful.  Like Jamie said, we hope it does.  But I think at least they are trying something, you know, to get the Davis Cup back and to get all the top guys playing.  Because me, it's an amazing team competition, but it only makes sense if the best of the best play.
Q. Do you think it was a bit extreme, though?  Things they could have done was maybe best of three to make it...
BRUNO SOARES: It doesn't change, because for me it's not about how much you play on the weekend.  For me, it's just the dates to commit.
I will give an example.  Last year I played two Davis Cup ties.  I spent 21 days out of home to play two matches.  I played Ecuador away and I played Japan away.  I was 21 days out of home for two matches.
I mean, on the calendar, I'm spending nine months of the year away from my family.  It's tough.  And I'm a Davis Cup lover.  I always play it.  So it's challenging.
Q. With the juxtaposition of the ATP World Team Cup, as well, is there going to be enough room in the calendar for two team competitions within five, six weeks of each other?
BRUNO SOARES: We don't know.  We hope so.  It's another amazing event what ATP has done and been able to accomplish.  This is something that we worked hard as player council.  We wanted an event like this.  I think it's great for tennis.  It's great in the start of the year to start with a big event, you know, before Australia.
We hope it's both a big success, and I think players can benefit from that.  It's, you know, it's more money to our sport.  It's more money for the players, more opportunity to play big events.  We just hope it's going to work.
Q. Jamie, both you and Andy are known for being forthright, and I think a lot of people appreciate that.  It was a little shocking yesterday to hear Roger Federer say, I really have no control or influence over what happens in the sport.  And you have been around for a long time.  What are your thoughts on that and maybe how things ought to change a bit to give you a little more input and help people have a better player insight, perhaps?
JAMIE MURRAY: Well, I think Roger has a lot of influence if he wants to have a lot of influence (smiling).  I think he showed that previously with the Grand Slam prize money changes.  I think he was a big help, you know, forcing the Grand Slams to, you know, share more revenue with the players.  And I think every player in the locker room is grateful to him for what he did.
You know, look, I think the player council, you know, I have been on it for two years, Bruno has been on it for longer.  I think, you know, the structure does have its complications, but I think it does offer a lot of protection on the player side.
I think that in the two years that I have been there, I think quite a lot has been accomplished that maybe a lot of people don't quite realize.  Certainly a lot more money going to lower-ranked players.
I think the Challenger Tour is changing, as well, for the better, I think.  You know, I think if the players go about it in the right way, they can achieve a lot, yeah.
Q. Bruno, you had a lot of praise to Andre Silva for what he's done for doubles in particular.  Can you sort of elaborate on what this tournament does better than some others in terms of...
BRUNO SOARES: I think it's not only the tournament.  I think it's him himself.  You know, he worked on the ATP for a long time.  He was always the big support of the players and everyone.  You know, from 1 to 1000 he was always looking after everyone.
I think now me and Jamie are involved in the player council, so we wanted the doubles review and some changes, something to improve the game, and he was one of the guys to step it up from the tournament side and help us work on that.
We made some good changes for next year, and I think it's going to be great for doubles.  I mean, he's a great friend of mine.  He's Brazilian.  He's the tournament director, huge event here in the States.
I really like the guy.  I have to thank him, because he really does a lot for the sport.  And he's not only looking for the top guys.  He looking for everyone.
Q. It was mentioned at the top of the interview a number of your wins together.  Curious, a different partnership from two continents.  How did it come about where you decided to partner and play?
BRUNO SOARES: The tour, we all know each other.  Same locker room, practicing together, so many guys grew up together playing juniors.  I mean, I know the Colombians for 20 years, things like this.
Then eventually it goes, like, momentum sometimes, you don't have a good season and you feel like you need a change.  You kind of ask around.  You see the guys you might like to play with, that you get along with or your game could fit with him.  Then you just ask.
The same here.  We asked each other and then decided to play.  We both were ending our previous partnership.  That's just the way it goes.  It's just, you know, talk.
Q. There is a lot of talk with Roger and Rafa coming back and the longevity of the sport.  What's your take on longevity from a doubles perspective?  Not that either of you are old, but you're both in your 30s.  What's the sort of secret to keeping at it in doubles as opposed to singles?
JAMIE MURRAY: Well, the scoring system helps, because there is very little endurance to what we do.  So that obviously increases the chances for a player to play longer.  All the guys are out there working hard and making sure they are in the best shape because the level is too high now.  You can't coast, because you'll get found out either by the other teams or the singles guys because they all know how to play doubles now.  So there is no hiding.
Q. I suppose when you come to the slams to best of five from best of three, how hard do people find that to adjust, or do they just take it?
BRUNO SOARES: I think it's more mental than physical most of the time, because they are so used to, like, the short format, and all of a sudden you're playing a three-hour doubles match.  It's not that you get tired, but eventually you have to keep your focus for a longer period of time.
Like Jamie said, everyone works so hard now.  Everyone is so fit.  I think this is the biggest difference from, you know, back in the days.  Everyone has -- not that they weren't working hard.  I think now we have way more access to, you know, recovery, you know, things that would help you with your body.  All the information that you have right now really help you with the longevity.
Q. There is a saying that you can't control the wind but you can adjust your sails to reach your destination.  So with respect to problem-solving and making adjustments during the match, how good are you with that and do you consult each other a lot during those points, or is it just, like, I'm going to hit it in the box and crack it?
BRUNO SOARES: That is the strategy when you're tight:  hit it in the box.  When you're able to control the situation -- I think we are pretty good at that.  We talk a lot, because we play a lot of percentage tennis.  We do a lot of scouting, studying the opponents, so we usually come in with a strategy.  But we always have, like, a plan B and adjusting accordingly.
I mean, some guys, they are power players.  They hit big.  If it's in, it's in.  They don't really care about the opponent.  We are not like that.  We play solid percentage tennis, so we need to be aware what's going on during the match.
I think we do that.  We do adjustments, and we are fairly good at that, because we know what's going on.  We know how the opponents, they are playing, like percentage serves, things like this, the way they're moving.  I think we are a good team on that matter.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT