THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 15, 2018
Jamie Murray
Victoria Azarenka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PEYA-MELICHAR/Murray-Azarenka   
7-6, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Jamie, where do you feel the match got away from you today?  
JAMIE MURRAY: Well, I mean, obviously I lost my serve at the start of things.  That didn't really help.  I mean, I didn't really return well enough, to be honest.  I didn't really give Vika any chances to put pressure on them.  Didn't feel like I really served that good either, to be honest.   
Yeah, I mean, I was disappointed at my performance.  Started to kind of get it together a bit with the second set on the returning side of things.  They played well.  Very solid.  Alex played a lot of good stuff up at the net.  Made the spaces very small to hit into.  The other girl, I thought she played really well, too.   
 Q.  Looks like you enjoyed the fortnight.  
JAMIE MURRAY: Yeah, it's been awesome.  I mean, we earned it.  Bloody hell, we earned it, got to the final.  Played a lot of tennis.   
It was a lot of fun to play with Vika.  She's such a great player, such a champion.  Yeah, it was a lot of fun for me.  Obviously, you know, disappointed in the doubles.  It's nice to come back and have a run in the mixed.   
 Q.  What about you, Victoria?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA: I mean, it's been great two weeks obviously.  It's tough to sit here after a loss and be, you know, positive.  But overall we played a good tournament.  We came up a little short in having chances today as well.  We just didn't convert them.   
I think overall we produced some great, entertaining tennis these two weeks.   
 Q.  Is this something you think you might do again, maybe at the US Open?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA: We haven't really talked about it.  Don't even know what kind of schedule Jamie is playing after this tournament.  I think it's a little too soon to talk.  I would love to play with him again.  It was really fun the last two weeks.   
 Q.  Seemed to be hobbling a little bit on Centre Court.  Wear and tear of the two weeks?  
JAMIE MURRAY: No, I was fine.  I was fine.  Didn't have any issues with my knees.  The last few days, I've been happy with the way that kind of progressed.   
 Q.  Victoria, you talked about how important it is for you to have matches.  Do you feel these couple weeks will help you in the next few weeks and months?  
VICTORIA AZARENKA: Yeah, I definitely think so.  I think it was important for me to play and be in those situations where the momentum changes a lot of times, try to figure out the way.  It was definitely for me a positive.  I'm happy that we gone so far.  Trying to just build up from these matches.  It's going to be hard court season now, so try to just pick up from each tournament.   
 Q.  Talking about schedules, what is your schedule?  
JAMIE MURRAY: Me, I'm playing Washington next, then Toronto, Cincinnati, then be at US Open.   
VICTORIA AZARENKA: I'm planning to play San Jose, Montreal, Cincinnati.  The European -- the U.S. tour, U.S. swing, yeah.   
 Q.  Jamie, you playing Washington with Bruno?  
JAMIE MURRAY: Yeah.   
 Q.  Not with Andy?  
JAMIE MURRAY: No.   
 Q.  Would you be keen to play together again?  
JAMIE MURRAY: For me, it was awesome.  I had a great time.  She's a great player, like I said.  Look, I mean, obviously we lost today, which is disappointing when you worked so hard to get to the final.  But over the course of the two weeks, we put a lot of good tennis out there, fought hard through difficult moments.   
Yeah, I mean, overall got to be pleased with how it went.  It's not easy to get to Grand Slam finals.   
 Q.  You said before the tournament you were planning on skipping the mixed, concentrate on the men's.  Do you feel that slightly affected you in the men's?  
JAMIE MURRAY: No, I don't think so.  I mean, look, the match we lost, we had our chances to be up two sets to love, kind of really be in control of the match.  We let that slip.  Ended up being a dogfight.  We lost.   
But, you know, I don't think that was because I played extra matches or anything like that.   
 Q.  Mixed being the oddity of just the slams, the focus of your careers is elsewhere, at what point does it suddenly become serious as you go through the mixed competition, if at all?  
JAMIE MURRAY: Probably when you're out of the other ones (laughter).   
I mean, look, we stepped on the court to win, do our best, see where we got.  We got all the way to the final.  Like I said, we had a lot of fun along the way.  Maybe we'll play again in the future.   
But, you know, I hope for Vika that she kind of gets her form back in singles and gets a good run of clear fitness and everything like that, just can get back to playing the biggest tournaments in the world in the latter stages, because that's what she's used to doing.   
She's obviously had difficult moments the last few years with lots of different things.  I think her game is there.  I hope she has a good run in the summer, gets back on the top of the game again.   
 Q.  Back to the knee thing.  Is that something you have to manage (indiscernible)?  
JAMIE MURRAY: I hope not.  I mean, rest not really, no.  It is what it is.  Just try to get it stronger.  It's been better this grass court season.  I've been a lot happier with it than the earlier parts of the year.   
 Q.  What exactly is it?  
JAMIE MURRAY: A few things.  Just kind of wear and tear.  Quad tendinopathy.  Had patellofemoral issues, femoral condyles.  It was annoying because one would get better, another one would get sore.  It's fine.  It's definitely a lot better than when I was playing on the clay, so...   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT