THE CHAMPIONSHIPS WIMBLEDON
July 16, 2017
Jamie Murray
Martina Hingis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MURRAY-HINGIS/Kontinen-Watson
6-4, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Welcome.  We have Jamie Murray and Martina Hingis.
Q. Last year Andy said he didn't feel like he made the most of the first time he won the singles title here.  What did you do the first time you won the mixed doubles and how will you better it tonight?
JAMIE MURRAY: I'm going to do what you did last year (smiling).
No, last time we finished really late, I think.  We ended up by just rushing, going to the dinner.  I don't know.  I don't think I did anything after that, to be honest.
But, yeah, we'll see what happens, yeah.
Q. The overriding thing that seemed to come across in that match is how much the two of you have enjoyed playing on the same team.  Did that really help the performance?
JAMIE MURRAY: Yeah, I think so.  I mean, it's easy to play with Martina.  I mean, she's always smiling and happy and stuff.  Makes it easy for me.
I mean, she takes care of her side of the court, makes my job a lot easier.
MARTINA HINGIS: You had to also cheer me up a couple times.  I get down.  When I feel frustrated when I can't return the guy's serve.  Pick the right side, but still he served so good today.  I mean, that's a bonus always, when you can break a guy.
But you can see the difference, the matches that we played up till now and today.  I mean, it's almost another level.  But because we played all the other matches so fluent, like really good chemistry.
Today we didn't really get nervous about it.  Like even if we didn't get to play the things we usually did in the last four matches, today it did when it mattered.
Q. Jamie, if it had been anyone but Martina to invite you to play in the mixed, would you have said no?
JAMIE MURRAY: Probably, yeah (smiling).
MARTINA HINGIS: I feel very flattered here.
Q. Can you explain the thought process that made you change your mind.
JAMIE MURRAY: Well, like I said before, it's just a great opportunity for me to play and to, like, really feel like you could do good things on the court and have a great shot to win.
I mean, the doubles for me is obviously my biggest goal of the year.  It's going to take something pretty special to kind of maybe potentially take my eye off the ball with it.
But like I said, it was a great opportunity.  I mean, she's won everything, won so many mixed as well.  Like, I knew I could do well with her.  For me, it was kind of an easy decision.
Q. Martina, what did you say to him?  Did you word it especially to him?
MARTINA HINGIS: No.  It was just like, Hi, Jamie, want to play with me (laughter)?  Just got to keep it simple.  I think that's what matters.  When you're on the court, too, we know where we stand, what we do, what we can expect from one another as doubles players.
I was hoping that Wimbledon really is for every British player or for any tennis player, you want to win Wimbledon.  I mean, whether it's the singles, doubles or mixed.  When you come back here, it's just a special thing, a special occasion.
I was hoping for a yes definitely.
Q. Has anyone ever turned you down?
MARTINA HINGIS: I'm not used to 'no' (laughter).  No, I don't take 'no' as an answer pretty much.  But I would understand especially here, it's always tough.  I understand in the past guys would have said no because they really want to focus on doubles only because it's three-out-of-five.  This is the only tournament that still does it.
Definitely easier to ask somebody on the other three Grand Slams and not Wimbledon.  But I definitely was hoping for a big yes.
Q. How long did it take Jamie to text you back?
MARTINA HINGIS: It was like in the evening.
JAMIE MURRAY: I didn't get her message till I woke up in the morning.
MARTINA HINGIS: He left me hanging overnight.  I was like, Oh, my God, did he read it?  Did he not?
No, it was...
JAMIE MURRAY: A good decision for both of us.
MARTINA HINGIS: Worked out, definitely.
Q. Jamie, does this feel sweeter than the first time?  How does it compare to anything you've ever achieved?
JAMIE MURRAY: I don't know really.  I mean, the first time, it's the first time I ever played mixed doubles.  I was young, first year playing on the tour.  I guess I don't know.  Just different.
Like it's 10 years later.  Obviously took me a long time to get a second one.  But yeah, I mean, I really enjoyed the whole week.  It's a great achievement.  Any time you win a Grand Slam, get your name up on the board again, it's there forever, yeah, no one will take it away from you.
Q. Jamie, will you be tempted to text your brother and tease him a bit about the fact there was able to be one Murray brother?
JAMIE MURRAY: No, I don't think so.
Q. You'll not bring that up?
JAMIE MURRAY: No.
Q. Martina, it's 20 years since you won the singles here.  Greater longevity than your fellow countryman, Roger Federer.  What's in the water in Switzerland?
MARTINA HINGIS: Yeah, it was a good day for us.  It was nice that he played a nice, quick match today.  We got on quickly.  Not having to wait around and lose nerves over him, like, fighting four or five sets.
But, yeah, obviously he's done amazing things since he won, what, at 21, 22, the first time.  Winning the title for the eighth time, I mean, both him and Nadal 10-time French Open, it's amazing what he accomplished in singles.  He's only a year younger than me.  I definitely admire that.
Q. How did you work up such a strong partnership together so quickly?  Can we expect to see you play here or other slams together again?
MARTINA HINGIS: I know he played with Angel.  That's my partner's sister, right?  It was, like, funny.  Did he wink at you?  That was a question.
I missed a couple of returns.  He tried to cheer me up, a little wink.  Yeah, here we go, that's good.  That was pretty nice to just relax and loosen up even if things, like I said earlier, aren't always going the way you want.
Like in a way I want to be a perfectionist, I want to at least give us a chance to put the return in.  I know it gives Jamie a great opportunity to do something because he's so quick around the net.  Helps me a lot.  Every time I don't do a return, I'm like, Oh, sorry.  I should at least give you a chance so...
Q. Are you going to text him again for another tournament?
MARTINA HINGIS: Well, we have champions dinner ahead of us.  Now we know what's coming up.  We haven't really talked about it yet.  We'll have plenty of time to do that tonight for the next tournaments coming up.
Q. Was Andy watching today?  He's too nervous, isn't he?
JAMIE MURRAY: Yeah, I just saw him there.  He said he came, like, in the middle of the first set.  I think he just waited in the lockers.  He said he didn't watch it.  I don't know if he snuck a few points in or not.
Q. For you three up in the Murray leaderboard as well with titles?
JAMIE MURRAY: Yeah, I guess you could look at it that way.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT