BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 19, 2016
Jamie Murray
Bruno Soares
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








KLAASEN-RAM/Murray-Soares
6-1, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Jamie, obviously goes without saying you'll be very disappointed with that.  What didn't work today that's been working so well?
JAMIE MURRAY: Well, I think the guys just zoned.  It can happen.  I think we didn't do a terrible job, we just got kind of steamrolled, which can happen in doubles.
Yeah, it just happens sometimes that the guys play a great match.  You know, they hit some great returns in important moments.  They were pretty sharp around the net.  We probably missed a couple shots kind of at wrong times that kind of didn't help our cause.
Yeah, just played a lot better than we did.  Fair play to them.
Q. We've talked about the No. 1 ranking.  Having got that yesterday, now the year is over, can you actually start to look back on it historically, highlights, the things that you really did well?
JAMIE MURRAY: Well, yeah, I mean, winning, obviously the tournaments we won were highlights for us.  To win in Australia and the US Open were huge achievements.  We both came into the partnership not having won a Grand Slam, both being in finals before.  And to get two in the first year is a great achievement.
I think, yeah, we can be really proud of our efforts this year.  It's not easy to make a partnership work, I think.  We did a great job.  I think we got on great the whole time.  We worked hard for each other, tried to improve ourselves and as a team.
I think we got lots to look forward to next year.
Q. Jamie, slightly odd to get the trophy when you're disappointed with how the match went.
JAMIE MURRAY: Yeah, it's a weird feeling.  It's just life, isn't it?  We lost, but they did a nice presentation.  We can be happy with our efforts this year, I think.
Q. When you've got to the top, where do you go from there?  How do you kick on and reset goals?
JAMIE MURRAY: I mean, I think we can still improve a lot in our game.  I think we have the last few months.
Yeah, the more we play together, the better we'll get, I think.  I mean, it wasn't like we won every single tournament.  We obviously won a lot of matches but we lost a lot.  I think there's things we can improve.  We're both aware of that.
That's exciting for us, as well.  There's still a lot we can do better.  Hopefully next year we're sitting here again in the same spot in the rankings.
Q. Jamie, I guess you would have had to follow Andy's match to a certain extent given that you were playing after.  How much did you watch of it and how hard is it to go out and play yourself?
JAMIE MURRAY: We watched the last set.  We didn't have anything else to do.  We were just waiting for them to finish.
It was stressful.  I'm sure everyone watching it was finding it pretty tense.  Obviously not an easy situation to watch, then have to go on court to play.  It's not the first time that's happened.  Just tough to have to deal with it.
It was obviously great that he won.  Gives himself a chance in the final tomorrow.
Q. Bruno, can you comment on the disappointment of today's result, but the compensation about finishing the year at No. 1 as a team.
BRUNO SOARES: Well, I think it's amazing.  The fact that we lost today doesn't take anything away from us, everything that we achieved throughout the whole year.
It's worse to get an award after you lose a match, but we knew that could happen.  But we had an amazing year, a very special year for both of us.  We won two slams.  We did a lot of right things.
But like Jamie said, we both know we have a lot to improve.  I mean, I think we work hard, we put a lot of effort in our team.  For us, I mean, it's a lot of rewards this year for everything we did.
We had another great tournament here, great run.  It's tough.  I mean, we played 20 something tournaments.  We won three titles.  All the others, we finished the tournament with a loss.  It's part of our sport.
Pretty happy with everything that happened this year.
Q. I guess the two of you now go your different ways.  Jamie, you're off to Wimbledon.  Bruno, you're back to Brazil.  How does a team that lives so separately prepare for the new season?
JAMIE MURRAY: Well, yeah, we just do our own off-season.  I'm sure we'll speak with our team now, kind of have a few goals that we want to get through in the off-season, you know, individually obviously, because that's how we'll be doing it.  When we come back in January, we link up again, we'll be ready for the new year.
Q. Where will you link up?
JAMIE MURRAY: Doha.  We're going to play Doha.
Q. How long will you take off and when will you start training again?
JAMIE MURRAY: I don't know.  Maybe 10 days, couple weeks maybe.  I mean, it's not long.  It's kind of getting towards the end of November, and the tournament starts the first week of January.  If you want to do a good pre-season, that probably takes two, three weeks of your time.
Obviously it comes round fast.  But, yeah, put the feet up for a few days, get away from the tennis court, reflect on a great year, then get back to work.
BRUNO SOARES: Reflect on a great year (smiling).






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT