BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 13, 2016
Jamie Murray
Bruno Soares
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MURRAY-SOARES/Mirnyi-Huey
6-4, 7-5
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Talk us through what happened at the end with the challenge.  Seemed to be a bit of confusion about what was going on.
JAMIE MURRAY: Yeah, well, I think Bruno kind of lost the ball, where it was, because the guy kind of miss-hit, whatever.  When it landed, I kind of felt like it was out.  I walked over, saw the mark was there.  Wasn't totally sure that it was out.
I mean, it was match point.  Go ahead and challenge it.  It was a weird way to finish in the end.  But, no, happy to win obviously.
Q. They weren't too happy.
JAMIE MURRAY: I think it was more like the time taken.  I guess it happens a lot.  To be honest, like, I walked over and I said to the guy, I want to challenge that.
BRUNO SOARES: He actually said before.  He only called the challenge on the second time that he asked because I turned around.  So I think he thought maybe we gave up on the challenge, but Jamie actually said it right away.
Then he looked at me.  I said, I don't know, I lost the ball.
So we challenged.  I think it's just the timing.
Q. Happy with the performance?
JAMIE MURRAY: Yeah, I think so.  I mean, happy to win.  Can't do better than that, than getting through your first match.
I think we played well.  I think we came through a couple of tough moments.  Lost my serve, serving for the set.  Came back really strong the next game.
Yeah, felt good out there.  Crowd was good.  Got good reception, good support.  Yeah, looking forward to Tuesday.
Q. Jamie, you spent a bit of time at Buckingham Palace of late.  Tell us about that.
JAMIE MURRAY: Yeah, twice in a week.  Got to meet the Queen, which was quite surreal.  Was really cool to be invested [sic].  I didn't really expect it at all.  Felt really honored to receive that.
Then we got to go to the State Banquet.  The president of Colombia was getting honored.  Yeah, I mean, such a unique thing to go to.
Yeah, we had a really nice night, met a lot of nice people.  They were all kind of rooting for us to try to finish at No. 1.  They were kind of on top of what we were doing.  Andy, as well.
So, yeah, it was really nice.
Q. The Queen was rooting for you to finish No. 1?
JAMIE MURRAY: Well, Prince Charles, he was, yeah.  The Queen, I laughed because she said to the Colombian president, when I met him, she's like, I've seen him play tennis before, which I thought was quite funny.
Q. How important is it to finish as the No. 1 pair?
JAMIE MURRAY: I mean, our goal is just to try to win when we step on the court this week.  If it ends up that we're the No. 1 team, that will be a huge achievement for us.  If it doesn't work out that way, we'll still have had a great year, lots to be proud of, lots to look forward to going into 2017.
Q. The Bryans next.  Not on top like they were, but is it still kind of special playing them?  Does it still feel a bit different to another match?
BRUNO SOARES: Go ahead, you're doing great (smiling).
JAMIE MURRAY: Yeah, it's always exciting to play against them.  I mean, they're clearly the best team in history with the amount of titles they won.  They always bring a great energy to the court.  You know, we all look up to them.  We all aspire to kind of get to their level.
Of course, probably they're starting to kind of decline a little bit.  But, I mean, that's always going to happen when you've won so much, and time has taken on.
We're really fired up to play against them.  Should be a great match, I think.  Well, I'm looking forward to it.  I hope Bruno is, as well.
BRUNO SOARES: I am (smiling).
Q. What's the food like at Buckingham Palace, and did they serve athletes' portions?
JAMIE MURRAY: The thing was, you serve yourself.  They bring it round and you take it off the plate and serve yourself.  I just assumed it was, like, one piece for each person.  You know, couples, like, they don't sit next to each other.
At the end of the meal, I went to my wife.  I said, I think I'm going to need to get some more food.
She says, Why didn't you take what you wanted?
The two guys she was sitting next to were, like, piling it in.  They were a bit more experienced, I think, in these affairs (laughter).






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT