WIMBLEDON
July 11, 2015
Jamie Murray
John Peers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 ROJER‑TECAU/Murray‑Peers
  7‑6, 6‑4, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
   
 Q.   I'm sure right now you're pretty disappointed.   When you reflect on the tournament, do you take a lot of positives out of this?  
JAMIE MURRAY:   Yeah, it was a good tournament for us.   Yeah, we got to the final of Wimbledon, which is not so easy to do.   I mean, my best result in a Grand Slam by quite some distance, I guess.   
Sad to lose.   But I guess overall it was a positive tournament.   
   
 Q.   It all comes down to little margins, a couple points here and there.   
JAMIE MURRAY:   Yeah, I mean, we had a few chances at the start the match that maybe we could have done a bit better with.   I think after a while they started to serve very well.   I think they serve very well.   I think they served smart.   To me, personally I thought they made a lot of first serves, as well.   
Yeah, I think they deserved to win.   
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible.)  
JAMIE MURRAY:   No, I didn't.   I didn't know he was coming till I heard him shouting.   
   
 Q.   Do you remember what he shouted?  
JAMIE MURRAY:   He was shouting all the time.   Encouragement, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Was that a nice feeling?  
JAMIE MURRAY:   Yeah, it was cool.   It was nice to see him out there supporting you.   
   
 Q.   Did it feel different, the fact it was the Wimbledon final?   You've been amazing all through the tournament, so positive.   Did it weigh on you a little bit?  
JOHN PEERS:   No, I didn't feel that.   I felt they got momentum early and that was the difference.   I felt if we could have snuck out a break out early, things could have gone completely different.   
I think that was the biggest difference.   They started a little better and hung in there early.   We just didn't take our chances when we had a few half chances early.   
   
 Q.   What is your overriding feeling?   Do you feel these opportunities will come along now that you've got to this final?   Do you think it's a missed opportunity here or that now you can go on and win a slam?  
JAMIE MURRAY:   I guess it's a missed opportunity, yeah.   We came to win.   We may never have a chance to play a Grand Slam final again.   I don't know what's going to happen in the future.   
Yeah, we didn't win, and that's that.   Yeah, moving on.   I guess we want to win one.   That's our goal.   Yeah, it's not easy to get to the finals of these tournaments.   
I think when you are in the final, you should try to make the most of it.   
   
 Q.   Jamie, Andy spoke about the tough element getting back up for Davis Cup.   Is that going to be a difficult thing to do?  
JAMIE MURRAY:   I don't think so, no.   It's an exciting match to look forward to.   I think, yeah, it's a big tie for us.   There's going to be a lot of people coming out to support.   
Yeah, I mean, motivation is high for the match.   
   
 Q.   Do you think you and Andy can help pick each other up?  
JAMIE MURRAY:   We'll be around a lot of guys, a lot of our friends, which will make it easy.   Looking forward to getting back with the team again.   
We had a good time last time.   A lot of happy memories last time.   Hopefully we create some more next week.   
   
 Q.   What does an Australian and a Scotsman make of England winning the first Ashes test today?  
JOHN PEERS:   I got told that when I walked off the court and I said, I'm having a good day then.   I think Jamie would just jump onboard either way.   
   
 Q.   (Question regarding speaking to Clay about doubles for Davis Cup.)   
JAMIE MURRAY:   Yeah, he's picking the team.   I imagine a decent shot.   But, yeah, I don't know.   
   
 Q.   Heading into the US Open, you must be going into that with quite a lot of confidence really.   
JAMIE MURRAY:   Yeah, I mean, we played a really good tournament.   We got all the way to the final.   I'm sure that will give us confidence going ahead in the summer.   Yeah, I mean, we know when we're playing well we can beat a lot of the top teams.   
But it's about doing it on the day.   Unfortunately today we didn't make that happen.   You know, I'm sure if you do that enough, you'll learn how to do that.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT