WIMBLEDON
June 28, 2008
Jamie Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MIRNYI-MURRAY/Cerretani-Hansecu  
6-4, 6-4, 7-6  
  
  Q. Is that the first time you've both been to the second week at the same time?   
 JAMIE MURRAY: Yeah, that was -- well, I guess we had only played it I guess once before at the same time. Yeah, it's good that we're both in the second week, and you know, hopefully we can keep winning and give the fans something to come and watch, you know, something to cheer for.  
  
  Q. How do you feel your partnership is developing with The Beast?  
 JAMIE MURRAY: Yeah, it's been good on the grass so far. You know, we played in the semis at Queen's and so we've won two matches here.   
 It's going to get a lot tougher now, and I think if we keep working hard together on being more of a team as opposed to just sort of two players on the court, then we will see the results and things will get better for us.  
  
  Q. You must have felt, though, you were getting out there as a team today?  
 JAMIE MURRAY: Yeah, I mean, the first two sets I think we played well. You know, we got the breaks, and I was returning much better than the first day.   
 You know, the third set I think I probably expected that we were going to get another break and started to get a bit agitated when it didn't happen.   
 But, you know, we played a good tiebreaker and we look forward to the next round.  
  
  Q. How does Max react when you're going through a rough patch like that and getting down on yourself?  
 JAMIE MURRAY: Yeah, I think he was aware of it. I was aware of it myself, to be honest with you. I was starting to get a bit tired, which obviously didn't help when you start to get that frustrated, as well.   
 He realized he had to push me the last sort of 20 minutes of the match to get through it. But that comes from, you know, experience. You know, I'm sure he's been in that situation before, and, you know, he pushed me through and we got through in the tiebreaker.  
  
  Q. Heck of a tiebreaker, though.   
 JAMIE MURRAY: Yeah.  
  
  Q. Are you finding that's happening more and more, that as the partnership develops you're beginning to understand each other better as people and read when one of you is getting a bit down or a bit frustrated?  
 JAMIE MURRAY: Yeah, I guess so. The more you play together the more you get to know each other's habits, what they like to do on the court, what's going to make them tick.   
 Today he needed to help me out a bit, and he did that. That's how we got through the first set.  
  
  Q. Somebody shouted, "Go McEnroe" from the crowd. I don't know if you heard that. Do you like the association with McEnroe and the headband and that?  
 JAMIE MURRAY: Yeah, it's fine. It's just a bit of fun. No problems with that.  
  
  Q. Was the choice of color anything deliberate?  
 JAMIE MURRAY: Yeah, I think so, yeah.   
  
  Q. It made it an interesting day for your grandparents. They sort of charged between the two courts following you both. You both seemed to be playing at the same time?  
 JAMIE MURRAY: Yeah, both my matches were played at the same time as Andy. Yeah, that's the way it is. He was playing first and I think they were watching him. I didn't actually see my grandma in the crowd, but I saw my mum came sort of halfway through the third set.   
  
  Q. Your next round against the No. 2 seeds.   
 JAMIE MURRAY: Yeah, I think, you know, they're the form team right now. They won Queen's. They were finals at the French. They won Hamburg, I think, and the finals of Rome. Or maybe the other way about.   
 So they're confident. They're playing well. We know it's going to be a tough match for us, but we're looking forward to it. We're feeling good about our game, and who knows what's going to happen.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT