JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 12, 2007
Scott Gutschewski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   STEWART MOORE:  We'd like to welcome Scott Gutschewski to the interview room here at the John Deere Classic.  Great round of 65 out there today.  Talk a little bit about this course, how it sets up for you.  You're one of the longer hitters on the PGA TOUR.  Is that an advantage around here? 
 SCOTT GUTSCHEWSKI:  For the most part I think it's an advantage any week to hit it a little further, whether it's a long course or not.  You know, this course I don't hit a ton of drivers.  You know, if you say my driver is my biggest weapon, then it's maybe not an advantage, but I don't mind hitting 3-wood or 2-iron or whatever when other guys are hitting driver.  I feel like I can hit that pretty straight. 
 So I don't know, I think it's an advantage on the whole. 
 STEWART MOORE:  Conditions soft or firm out there?  What was it like after a few days of rain? 
 SCOTT GUTSCHEWSKI:  Fairways weren't quite as soft as I thought they would be.  The ball was rolling, not really picking up any mud.  Greens were pretty soft.  Everything was pretty much sticking.  Wedges were backing up. 

 Q.  Do you find yourself hitting driver a little more often here than maybe a year ago, the year before? 
 SCOTT GUTSCHEWSKI:  No, no.  I know they did add a little length out there, but I hit driver on 2, 4, 8, 10, 13, 14 and 17. 

 Q.  You hit driver on 8? 
 SCOTT GUTSCHEWSKI:  Yeah, I hit driver on 8.  There's nothing out there to stop it. 

 Q.  Oh, that's right.  I was seeing 6. 
 SCOTT GUTSCHEWSKI:  6, yeah. 

 Q.  Is it nice to be in this room and not have to answer questions about a teenaged girl? 
 SCOTT GUTSCHEWSKI:  Well, yeah.  I mean, yeah, you always want to be recognized for playing well, I guess.  But, you know, that kind of goes with the territory when she's here.  You know, she couldn't make it this year, but hopefully the tournament is still a success.  I'm sure it will be.  You know, John Deere is a great sponsor and everything, so I'm sure the tournament will be fine.  She obviously brought a lot of people out that probably won't be here this year. 
 But hopefully, you know, some people came out and liked what they saw, and they're going to come back anyways. 

 Q.  Did you take anything away from that experience as a young player? 
 SCOTT GUTSCHEWSKI:  I mean, it was definitely interesting playing in front of people.  I mean, it's fun playing in front of people.  Obviously the better you play in front of people, the more fun it is.  But, you know, it was a little different.  You could tell -- it's not like everybody was rooting against Nick and myself, but everyone was pulling for her.  We were just kind of there.  So it was a little different.  I wouldn't say it was hostile, but we knew who everybody was cheering for. 

 Q.  So much for not having to answer those questions, huh? 
 SCOTT GUTSCHEWSKI:  There you go. 

 Q.  Did the wind pick up midway through your round, or at what point did it start blowing a little bit? 
 SCOTT GUTSCHEWSKI:  I would say probably around 8 or 9 it was blowing pretty good. 

 Q.  Is it going to be a little harder this afternoon do you think? 
 SCOTT GUTSCHEWSKI:  I have no idea.  If the wind keeps -- I mean, we're in the Midwest.  Who knows what's going to happen.  It might be 100 out there with no wind in 20 minutes.  It might be snowing (laughter). 

 Q.  How critical was it for you to take advantage of the benign conditions this morning? 
 SCOTT GUTSCHEWSKI:  I guess I made most of my birdies once the wind started blowing, so maybe you'd better not ask a guy that likes wind.  Yeah, it was nice.  I think the biggest difference between the morning and afternoon will be the greens, a little smoother in the morning.  With the rain that we had and as soft as they are, they'll be a little bumpy, a little spiked up in the afternoon. 

 Q.  The course is going to get a little firmer with all this wind, isn't it? 
 SCOTT GUTSCHEWSKI:  It should.  The fairways are good.  I think the greens are a little softer than they want them. 

 Q.  How bad did you want that last putt on 18 for a share of the lead?  I mean, you had it headed right toward the hole. 
 SCOTT GUTSCHEWSKI:  Not as bad as I would want it on Sunday (laughter). 

 Q.  I saw you had quite a bit of family out there, too.  What does that mean to you? 
 SCOTT GUTSCHEWSKI:  Yeah, it's nice.  This is as close as we get to Omaha.  My family and I, actually my wife and kids, we moved to Dallas last October, so any chance we get to see our family is nice.  It's nice they took the time, took time off work to drive across Iowa and come over and watch. 

 Q.  You do the RV thing out here? 
 SCOTT GUTSCHEWSKI:  We do.  We do the RV thing.  It's a fun way to travel with kids. 
 STEWART MOORE:  Scott, great playing.  Best of luck this week.  Thanks for coming in and speaking with us. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT