JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 7, 2005
Scott Gutschewski
Nick Watney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  We'd like to thank Scott and Nick for joining us for a few minutes here in the media center at the John Deere Classic.  Why don't we just begin with questions, let you guys address them and we'll go from there.
Q.  Can you both say what it was like playing with her and what did you think of her round?
SCOTT GUTSCHEWSKI:  I mean, it was fine to play with her.  You know, she had fine etiquette and all that sort of stuff.  She was pleasant, she wasn't complaining, stuff like that.

Ultimately, you know, I kind of    you know, I mean, really she really doesn't matter for us in the tournament.  She doesn't count towards the cut, she doesn't count towards the money, so I think it's fun for the people to come and see how she stacks up against us, which was pretty good (laughter).  But no, it was fine.  I mean, I thought she was very professional and so on and so forth.

NICK WATNEY:  Yeah, I mean, I thought she was a nice girl, very pleasant, and she played very well.
Q.  Any interesting conversations, moments you can share, things you guys talked about?

NICK WATNEY:  Nothing too interesting for me.  We talked about movies a little bit.  I guess she's playing the Pub Links next week.
Q.  Which movies?

NICK WATNEY:  "Mr. and Mrs. Smith," I think, and she was talking about "Legally Blonde" or something like that, nothing too stimulating.
Q.  What was your assessment of her game seeing her close up for 18 holes and the shots she was presented with?  What struck you about the way she played?

NICK WATNEY:  Well, you know, I thought on the surface it was a very well played round, and then to realize that she's a 15 year old girl is kind of mind boggling.  I mean, she's a phenom.  When I was 15, it didn't look like that.  I thought she played great.
SCOTT GUTSCHEWSKI:  Yeah, she played nice.  I think she was a little nervous starting, you know, hit a couple shaky shots.  But I mean, she hit a great shot in there on 7, the par 3, and that seemed to settle her down.  She made birdie there.  She played nice.

You know, she hit the ball in the fairway, hit the ball on the green and made some putts.  I would say on the ladies' Tour it might look a little flashier, but out here, it's just kind of she got it in play, got it on the green, gave herself a lot of chances.  I mean, she played nice.  She did what she had to do.  She didn't try to do too much.  I mean, she played nice.
Q.  Was it kind of surreal to see that coming from a 15 year old girl?  I know you concentrate on your own game, but when you look over and see a 15 year old girl addressing the ball and hitting it 280 or whatever, is it hard to grasp at first?
SCOTT GUTSCHEWSKI:  I don't know.  I mean, age is relative.  That's what all the old guys tell me.  Yeah, I mean, it's impressive at 15, that's for sure.  You know, I don't know how many 15 year olds could come out here and do that, let alone a 15 year old girl.  It's pretty amazing.
Q.  You guys got on the clock at one point, I think.  Was that from us tripping around the course out there?
SCOTT GUTSCHEWSKI:  Yes (laughter).
Q.  How did it happen and how does that affect you?
SCOTT GUTSCHEWSKI:  I mean, we just fell behind a little bit.  I think there was a lot of stuff going on out there, plus Nick is really slow.

NICK WATNEY:  (Nodding).  We had some rough holes.
SCOTT GUTSCHEWSKI:  I made 6 on 3, so that took about an hour, I think.
Q.  How often have you played for galleries that size, both of you?
SCOTT GUTSCHEWSKI:  Pretty similar.  I thought the crowd was pretty similar to playing late on Sunday in a Nationwide event, wouldn't you say?  That's what I thought.

NICK WATNEY:  I mean, there was crowds like that on the weekends most times.  I mean, the crowd size wasn't an issue.
Q.  Enthusiasm?
SCOTT GUTSCHEWSKI:  There was a lot of enthusiasm.

NICK WATNEY:  I think they were here to see Scott and I mostly.
Q.  Was there any part of her game or demeanor, anything that surprised you out there today?

NICK WATNEY:  I thought she handled the whole situation very well.  I mean, there was obviously a lot of hype and talk before the event even started, and then all the atmosphere out there was    certainly, for her, I'm sure it was    it has to be fairly new I would think.  I thought she handled that well.
Q.  Had either of you met her before today?

NICK WATNEY:  No.
SCOTT GUTSCHEWSKI:  No, I hadn't.  But I think to some degree I think she's pretty much accustomed to this.  I mean, she's been playing in professional events since she was like 12.  So, I mean, to some degree I think she'd be a little more shocked if she stepped up there on the 1st tee and there was nobody there, like it would be if it was just me and Nick.  I think that would shock her a little bit more.
Q.  What were your opinions of these circumstances before today and have they changed at all since then, 18 holes later?

NICK WATNEY:  I'm not sure I understand the question.
Q.  Well, your opinion of Michelle playing on the PGA TOUR.

NICK WATNEY:  Well, I mean, it's the Tournament's decision.  They have their sponsor spots, and they want to sell tickets and get some ratings, and I think they've done that.  And then she can obviously compete, so I see no problem with it.
Q.  What did you guys think when you found out a couple days ago that you were paired with her?
SCOTT GUTSCHEWSKI:  I was fine with it.  I mean, I thought it would be fun to play in front of more people.  I mean, that's kind of tied in with the job when you play well out here.  So I was looking forward to it.  I thought it would be fun.
Q.  Was it frustrating at any point?
SCOTT GUTSCHEWSKI:  No.  I mean, it's frustrating    I don't know.  You know, when some people hoot and holler a little bit too much when she makes like a two foot putt, that's a little overboard.  Some people are a little bit too enthusiastic, not in a bad way, they're just happy to be here.  But she taps in a two footer, and it's like, "go girl," which is fine, but I would call it frustrating.  I'd say it gets old.
Q.  How do you think the tease and needle factor will be with your smart aleck friends?

NICK WATNEY:  I would say it would be very high.
SCOTT GUTSCHEWSKI:  It started when the tee times came out, so it'll be    I mean, she's going to beat a lot of guys today, though.  I mean, I don't know what the scores are like, but I think 6 under is leading so it's not like everybody is going to shoot under par today.  She's going to beat a lot of guys.  She'll probably beat a lot of guys tomorrow.  She's going to beat a lot of guys for the rest of her life, I'm sure.
Q.  Given the fact that she was not anywhere near as long as you guys off the tee and just sort of the general state of her game, could she pull it off?  Do you see her being able to do this week in and week out?
SCOTT GUTSCHEWSKI:  I think this course sets up good for her.  I think there's some courses we play that might not set up quite as well for her.  Which ones, I don't know; I'm a rookie.  I mean, I don't know what the yardage is on this course, but just the way it's set up, it doesn't seem like you hit a lot of drivers.  But who's to say; I mean, anybody can win anywhere any week.  It doesn't matter how far you hit it.  I mean, I was 40, 50 yards past her all day and she still beat me.  So there you go.
Q.  What does that say about the rest of her game?  I mean, among the women she's known for her distance, but the fact that she can be outdriven and still have a better score, what does that say about the rest of her game?
SCOTT GUTSCHEWSKI:  She putted really nice today.  She hit some good chip shots and made some nice putts.  From the way I had seen her play, it seemed like that was kind of her weak point.  It seemed like she had a little trouble with the putter.  She putted nice today, made some nice putts, difficult putts.
Q.  Did you guys look at all at this round as an opportunity to go out there and shoot well and get some people talking about yourselves and some shots that you made?

NICK WATNEY:  Yeah.  I mean, well, this is the PGA TOUR, so if you play well any week, you'll get notoriety or whatever you want to call it.  There was probably a bigger focus on our tee time than there would be normally at an event.
Q.  What did you hit on 18 and what did she hit?  Because you were even.  You were beyond her all day.  I assume you had a lot less club in?
SCOTT GUTSCHEWSKI:  I hit my utility club.  It's like a 2 iron.
Q.  Was there any hole that you had the same club as her?
SCOTT GUTSCHEWSKI:  Yeah, she knocked it way past Nick on 17 (laughter).

NICK WATNEY:  What about 16?
SCOTT GUTSCHEWSKI:  16 we hit the same club.  I mean, it was a par 3.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  We'd like to thank Scott and Nick for joining us.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT