BRITISH MASTERS SUPPORTED BY SKY SPORTS
October 14, 2016
Richard Sterne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What do you make of your second knock here?  
RICHARD STERNE: Yeah, pretty consistent.  I didn't hit it as well as yesterday I would say but drove it pretty good again and gave myself a lot of chances but still struggling with that 15-foot range but I see 10-under is leading, so I'm not too far behind.   
 Q.  A nice bounce back after a bogey, but you really came back in style?  
RICHARD STERNE: Yeah, the course is playing pretty easier -- a lot easier than yesterday afternoon but as I said I didn't make too many putts but you know, I made two soft bogeys but other than that, it was the first bogey in four rounds for me.   
 Q.  Is there a lot of difference in the club selection given the wind is negligible compared to yesterday?  
RICHARD STERNE: Yeah, the course definitely plays a bit easier, or shorter, should I say, although on some holes a bit longer obviously with no help downwind as much, but it's pretty much the same.  I think the guys in the afternoon are going to have it slightly easier than we did yesterday but not a whole lot.   
 Q.  You mentioned the leaderboard; so you look and see your position on it?  
RICHARD STERNE: Yeah, for sure.  I like to look and see what's going on.  I feel pretty confident with my game and it's nice to look around and see what's going on and enjoy for a change.   
 Q.  The confidence has been building, you've been solid for quite some time and got the good, more spectacular result last week?  
RICHARD STERNE: Yeah, it wasn't a win but at least I was up there all week and had a decent last day to stay up there and that was very important for my confidence.  I putted nicely.  You know, I made two good par putts coming in here, so that also gives me a lot of confidence.   
 Q.  Are you getting good messages from home when they see you up on the board?  
RICHARD STERNE: Yeah, it's amazing, a lot of people send a lot of good luck messages and give me a lot of support.  It's nice to know that there are a lot of South Africans back home watching.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT