ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 7, 2016
Richard Sterne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What's your assessment of two days play so far?  
RICHARD STERNE: It's always nice to be here at the Dunhill and to play these golf courses always inspires me.  I've been playing better and putting fairly decently and hitting the ball well, so up to now, pretty good.   
 Q.  Inspires you; do you actually just feel that extra step in your stride or something when you take out to Carnoustie or here at Kingsbarns?  
RICHARD STERNE: The weather was lovely when we got here and it's been acceptable the last two days.  Quite tricky wind on this golf course and the other two, actually, so I think the scoring is going to be not as good -- well, you can see it's not as good as it previously is.  So it's a bit more of a test.   
But when I get here, yeah, I have a good feeling about this place and one day it will be a dream just to have a chance to win on the Sunday at the Old Course.   
 Q.  At the moment, you're maneuvering into that kind of position, you're nicely placed on that board?  
RICHARD STERNE: Nicely placed.  Got St. Andrews tomorrow and then hopefully on Sunday, so dependent on the weather, the back nine can be tricky at St. Andrews.  Let's see, hopefully tomorrow, bring something good.   
 Q.  Felt like a little while since you've had this opportunity?  
RICHARD STERNE: I've had some decent finishes up there, but a lot of 10ths and 12ths and a few 13ths.  It's nice to at least have a chance.  There's a long way to go, so let's see what happens.   
 Q.  It's a different kind of rhythm playing in this event; is that something that you enjoy?  
RICHARD STERNE: Yeah, I've had some decent finishes here.  And playing with the amateurs, it's a lot of fun most of the time.  I've been fortunate to get really good partners and it's a different format.  You know, I don't know about doing it every week but every now and then, it's pretty nice.   
 Q.  Walk us through the eagle?  
RICHARD STERNE: Yeah, just drove it on 6 and made a long putt, probably 50 foot or 45 foot.  Driver, it was quite a tricky tee shot, because if you miss you're in the bush.  Just hit a really tee shot there and made about a 40-, 50-footer, so it was nice.   
Then yeah, a bit of a disappointing finish really to be honest.  Should have made an easy birdie on 16 but I didn't.  I actually thought I hit a good second putt but just didn't come close and then drove it in the bunker on 17.  So that's kind of the penalty.   
But other than that, pretty solid.  As you can see, the scoring is not as good as previous.  It's tough.  Although it wasn't blowing so hard today, it still makes all three golf courses tougher.  You'll see the scoring will be a bit more realistic.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT