THE 145TH OPEN
July 15, 2016
Richard Sterne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How tough is it out there today?  It looks terrible?  
RICHARD STERNE: Yeah, it was pretty tough.  I'm not sure who had the best or the worst conditions, but it wasn't easy for us this afternoon.  The front nine playing very tricky.  I didn't get to practise in it, so it was pretty tough with that wind.  You just have to play really good golf in this weather.   
 Q.  What does the wind do?  What make it's so tricky?  
RICHARD STERNE: It was more off the right, obviously on the front nine and into you, and that played pretty long.  As I said, it's just a lot of crosswinds and on the back nine it started raining, and into off the left, off the left.  So still hitting 3-irons into 11 and it's long.  It's brutally long.  You've got to try and grind some pars and make some putts.   
 Q.  Given how (inaudible) it is now.  Can you still come away with something?  
RICHARD STERNE: Yeah, I've got a chance to get into the weekend.  I'm quite far back, but you're going to have to shoot the lowest weekend to jump up there.  But I'm playing decent.  There is some good stuff.  Just got to hit the right shots on the right holes.  Yeah, there are a couple holes, as I said yesterday, that are really tough.  So if you can get through those, then you can post a decent score.  But 10 behind is a long way, but you never know.   
 Q.  As far as the weekend goes now and what you want to get out of this, you say 10 is too far behind, but you're still looking for a good finish, aren't you?  
RICHARD STERNE: Yeah, definitely.  I feel like I can jump up on the weekend.  I want to put in a good performance.  There's definitely some good signs.  If I can just feel a bit more comfortable over a couple of things and don't make silly errors.  There are some holes here that you've just got to try to be clever to play around them.  Stay out of the bunkers is the main thing here.   
 Q.  Is this the game plan?  
RICHARD STERNE: Yeah, game plan and obviously some of the bunkers on the front nine, it's a different nine to what we've played all week generally.  So you have to assess that.  I made a mistake on the 6th hole and that cost me.  Made a good bogey in the end.  You can hit good shots here and still struggle to make bogey.   
 Q.  The wind expected tomorrow is not too bad.  
RICHARD STERNE: Yeah, either wind is fine or rain, but to have both is tough, and it's mentally very tough.  This is a mentally draining event.  Very tough visually off the tees on some holes, especially the back nine.  It's just very demanding.  So it was a tough day out there.  I'm pretty happy.  I made three bogeys, 9, 10, 11, and things were looking tough at that time.  So to kind of steady the ship after that, I'm pretty happy.   
 Q.  Where does this rank with the tougher days that you've had?  
RICHARD STERNE: Yeah, it's probably one of the toughest.  This back nine is probably the toughest in golf when the wind is off the left.  It can be more tough if it's into you off the left.  So I suppose it's not as tough as it can be, but it was pretty tough.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT