DUBAI DUTY FREE IRISH OPEN HOSTED BY THE RORY FOUNDATION
May 20, 2016
Richard Sterne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
RICHARD STERNE: I've been off for a couple weeks and it's nice to come here and put myself in a decent position.   
 Q.  Looked like you got it going early stages, as well?  
RICHARD STERNE: I made a few putts, which is always nice.  I've been putting pretty decent, hitting the ball a lot better, as well.  I've been putting in quite a lot of work back home now and so hopefully it starts paying off now.   
 Q.  I take it it's pretty hard work out there with the blustery conditions like this?  
RICHARD STERNE: Yeah, it is, it's tough.  Some really tricky shots and there's a lot of water around and there's some really daunting shots out there.  So this doesn't make it any easier.   
 Q.  Any particular reason why today was better than the opening day?  
RICHARD STERNE: Yesterday I just got off to a bad start and was 3-over after five holes, so it was a fight all day.  I got it back, which was important, and today just got off to a good start and made a couple good putts, a couple good shots and that kind of takes the pressure off.   
 Q.  You mentioned having a couple of weeks off but we haven't seen you in this kind of situation since the Tshwane Open when you had your chance there.  
RICHARD STERNE: Yeah, it's been a long time since I've really been in contention, too few times to be honest.  But I'm starting to hit the ball better and getting through all the injuries that I've had and starting to kind of feel a bit better about my game.   
 Q.  How is your health, because it looked like had beaten it, you came back, had some prominent finishes and disappeared for a little while.  
RICHARD STERNE: Yeah, it was unfortunate.  I came back from my back injuries and got back to Top-50 in the world.  But then tore the cartilage in my hip and had to have surgery there.  That's really taken its toll.  I got into some bad habits that took a long time to get through, and eventually now starting to work through them and understanding what was wrong.   
You get into bad habits, and to break those bad habits, it takes a lot longer than one would like, so you have to just keep going, and mentally obviously it does a lot of damage, as well, so that's also something you have to take into account.   
 Q.  I take it mentally, this does a lot of good into the weekend in this position?  
RICHARD STERNE: It's nice to come down the stretch and hit some good shots and kind of not fight always to make the cut by one or anything like that.  I'm looking forward to the weekend.  Hopefully the weather is not too bad.   
I'd like it to clear up a bit so I can go catch some nice trout here at The K Club.  It's a fantastic place catch trout here.  I've been twice in the evenings till 9.30 in the evening, freezing, but I'm catching the trout, some nice browns and rainbows, which is always fun.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT