NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 14, 2014
Richard Sterne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  RICHARD STERNE:   Obviously it's one of those things, so it's not the end of the world.   Main goal is to get your card and that's what I did.   I can go home now spend some time with my wife and I'll forget about this. 

Q.   (No Microphone.)
RICHARD STERNE:   No, I'm going home.   Tomorrow I'll be on the flight. 

Q.   This money will get you your card.   Do you plan on playing some more later?
RICHARD STERNE:   Playing next week will give me a better chance to up my ranking, but I can't see much more than finishing higher than 6th or 7th, so, no. 

Q.   (No Microphone.)
RICHARD STERNE:   I struggled all day to roll the 30, 40 footers up close and I came up short couple times.   I thought this time just give it a little bit more and it rolled on five, six feet past.   That was the first short putt I missed all day. 
But I putted well up until then, and I hit a bad tee shot on 16 and it really left me with no shot.   So, I had to take my medicine there and try and up‑and‑down it. 
But I hit a bad tee shot on 17 and unfortunately, it's a bad shot at the wrong time and that's‑‑ when you're playing at this level, it can bite you. 

Q.   What happened on bunker shot?
RICHARD STERNE:   It was a tough shot.   I had to hit it a long way and try to stop it quick.   It came out a good four or five yards further than I wanted.   I knew it's almost impossible to hit it close.   I was trying to get it 10, 12 feet past the hole.   I made a really good putt there, but made bogey.   So I was happy with that. 
I played 18 well.   I gave myself a couple chances, but obviously disappointing.   But a youngster won and he's a good player, and so, I guess we'll let the youngsters win today. 

Q.   (No Microphone.)
RICHARD STERNE:   Yeah, I was feeling good.   I knew that making eagle there I was standing on 12 tee box knowing that if I make that eagle here I felt something was going to happen and that I could do it. 
I got a bit lucky with 14 on the tee shot and I hit two good shots into 15 and then suddenly it went the other way. 
I wasn't nervous, but, obviously, closing out any tournament is really hard when you're near the lead.   So put it down to one of those that got away.

Q.   Will you rest now instead of playing or are you going to try to go for the No. 1 spot?
RICHARD STERNE:   No, I'm going home tomorrow.   I'll be playing back in Europe for a couple weeks.   I'm not even sure how the schedule works or what tournaments you get into when you start or how it works.   I'll have to look at that and assess things.   But obviously I want to play a little bit in Europe, play well there and then I'll come over here. 
It's been a long time that I've been trying to get here and I think that I've always tried to get to the Top‑50 in the world, but now there's a chance to do it here. 

Q.   Did you expect to be in this position after 36 holes?
RICHARD STERNE:   No, I was 2‑over par with three holes to play on Friday.   Struggling to make the cut and I went three birdies in a row.   So I had a really good bunker shot on 16 and I made birdie there from the fairway bunker so things could have gone either way.   But I played really solid golf.   I putted really well.   There are a lot of positives here this week.   Obviously, I would have liked to have had the trophy, but I'm thankful to get the card and I'll pour my red wine tonight and celebrate.   There are still things to celebrate. 

Q.   (No Microphone.)
RICHARD STERNE:   My wife left today for there.   So it will be a good time. 

Q.   You still want to win, though. 
RICHARD STERNE:   Yeah, sure.   But I didn't look at the leaderboard much and I thought that ‑‑ you know, I just didn't play well enough to win.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT