NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 13, 2014
Richard Sterne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about your round today.   
RICHARD STERNE:   It was pretty solid.   A good front nine.   Four birdies on the front nine.   That was pretty good.   
I made a lot of good putts and a lot of good swings as well.   Got it going with the eagle on 12.   Made a really good 6‑iron to about three feet there, which was pretty special.   Especially where that flag is.   
But then struggled a little bit coming in.   But managed to make a couple good pars, good up‑and‑downs on 17 and 18.   So that saved the round.   
   
 Q.   You got in trouble on 17 and 18.   You got to feel pretty good about being able it save par and keep pace?  
RICHARD STERNE:   Yeah, the leaders are coming back.   The course is pretty tough.   It depends on where they put the flags here, and that can be really tricky.   
So, obviously, with the wind the way it was, it was even more tricky today, and you'll see that with the scoring.  
   
 Q.   You got maybe within an inch of that cup on 17.   
RICHARD STERNE:   I was happy with par.   It was a tough bunker shot and it was a slight downhill lie and it just came out perfect.   So, pretty happy with that.   
   
 Q.   Talk about the golf course and what happened to it in the last two days.   
RICHARD STERNE:   It's firming up.   The greens are getting a lot firmer.   They're not watering them much.   There hasn't been much rain, so they're definitely firming up.   
It depends on where they put the flags on this golf course.   When the flags on this golf course are in certain position, the greens are really tricky and severe in places.   And if you miss them in the wrong places, you're in the going to make par.   
So, it all depends on what they want to do tomorrow, will depend on what the scoring will be like.  
   
 Q.   Most of the leaders are in reverse, the whole field, probably?  
RICHARD STERNE:   Yeah, it was tough.   The course‑‑ 3‑under was the lowest score and the conditions were pretty decent with the wind.   They put the flags in really tricky places today.   
The wind today as well‑‑ you need to find fairways, if you're struggling to keep it on the greens, the greens are getting firm, so you can't get close.   You are just struggling to make pars out there if you don't do the right things.   Scoring, once again, I think is difficult.   
   
 Q.   Do you like that type of golf course?  
RICHARD STERNE:   Yeah, I prefer it a little bit tougher.   Obviously, you need to be playing well for that to work out.  
But, obviously, a good round in tough conditions helps you a lot more than when everybody is shooting low.  
   
 Q.   You maybe didn't finish as well as you would have liked the first two final events.   Did you feel more comfortable on this course, or do you feel like it's a matter of your game being sharper?  
RICHARD STERNE:   I actually only played nine holes.   I didn't play the front anyone at all, I just played the back nine.   
It's been a long few weeks.   I had an operation in March and only came back before the British Open.   
So, I'm struggling a little bit with my hip.   I don't want to play too much more golf.   That's why I only played nine.   
The golf course is nice.   It's a good course that you got to strike it well and put it on the fairway.   If you do that then you can attack the flags.   But it sort of depends where they put the flags.   
   
 Q.   Talk about the injury and what happened?  
RICHARD STERNE:   I had a torn labrum, so I had the operation on that in March.  
   
 Q.   What were you doing before that?  
RICHARD STERNE:   Hopefully playing golf.   I played with it for about six or seven months.   I started feeling it before the Presidents Cup, and then played with it for about seven months.   
And then I had a good finish in Doral, but I had to have it done at some stage, so I decided to do it and it's been just under four months.  
   
 Q.   You had surgery where?  
RICHARD STERNE:   In Vail.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel any sense of urgency this week knowing that if you want to get your TOUR card, you need to have a high finish?  
RICHARD STERNE:   Yeah, you know what you need to do.   Last week I was doing well.   I had a really bad last 12 holes, but that was one thing.   
And then it's hard to pick yourself up after that.   But you got to do it.   I just got to give myself some opportunities.   And I know that out of the four tournaments, something good should happen.  
   
 Q.   When did you start thinking that you would play these finals, was that all year?  
RICHARD STERNE:   Yeah, after the three tournaments, Bridgestone, the PGA, and the Wyndham.  
And then I needed to make a certain amount of money.   And I made all the cuts and whatever, obviously Bridgestone doesn't have a cut, but I missed out by about 17 or $18,000.   
So, that was the one thing that I wanted, to get it done.   Then my injury‑‑ I was playing a lot of golf after that operation, I shouldn't really have been doing that.   But you got to do what you got to do.   So hopefully I'll have a good finish tomorrow and I'll be on the plane back out.   
   
 Q.   67 today, given the conditions, is that like 63 any other day?  
RICHARD STERNE:   I think it's going to be the lowest round of the day.   Whatever it is, I'm happy, if it is the lowest round, then ‑‑ I think the scoring wouldn't have been as high, but it's obviously tough out there and you got to grind it.   It's the type of course where you sometimes have to play away from the pins and try to make par and that's difficult.   Take advantage of the par‑5s if you can.   You got to hit a lot of good tee shots, hit a lot of drivers.   
   
 Q.   (No Microphone.)  
RICHARD STERNE:   Yeah, I think that looking at the last course was set up very nice and this one is tougher, the rough is thicker and the greens are firmer, so you can't really compare them.   If you're not spot on you can't make birdies.   
   
 Q.   (No Microphone.)  
RICHARD STERNE:   Yeah, we hung out quite a bit together.  
   
 Q.   When did you first get to know him?  
RICHARD STERNE:   When he came out in 2012 or 2011.   He had that stretch where he won four times.   So, yeah, that's when.   
   
 Q.   (No Microphone.)  
RICHARD STERNE:   3‑putt.   I 3‑putted.   I struggled coming in.   But I hit a good bunker shot there at the end.   
   
 Q.   (No Microphone.)  
RICHARD STERNE:   No, they were all generally short.   I had a 2‑putt for birdie on the par‑5.   One was about 12 feet, another one was three or four foot, but, yeah.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT