THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 1, 2013
Richard Sterne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talking with a number of your fellow players yesterday, they said Richard Sterne I might be the funniest of us all; would you agree with them?   Do you think you have a good sense of humor?  
RICHARD STERNE:   No, I'm just the most intelligent of them all.   Not difficult in that group.   
   
 Q.   Difficult to drop down ‑‑  
RICHARD STERNE:   Kind of, very‑‑ tough, you know.   
   
 Q.   Which one comes to mind‑‑  
RICHARD STERNE:   Definitely Louis, Louis and Charl.   Did you see their haircuts?   I mean, who does that?   It would upset my whole week, I must be honest.  
   
 Q.   Looks like they got it cut while they were sleeping?  
RICHARD STERNE:   Yeah, I think it was a trick that the U.S. Team did to us, but it was funny.   
   
 Q.   How is the experience?   
RICHARD STERNE:   It's been good.   Today was nice.   I played here in '09, so the course is a little bit familiar, and the course is beautiful and it's a great bunch of guys and it's nice to be under Nick and Tony and Mark, which I know pretty well, so it's going to be exciting.   We have a good vibe and hopefully we can give the guys a go.   
   
 Q.   Playing under Nick and Mark ‑‑ does it mean more to you, how cool is it?   
RICHARD STERNE:   Yeah, coming from Zimbabwe, and they are from Zimbabwe, we are from South Africa, we kind of feel that they are Southern Africans obviously and played in South Africa all the time.   I used to go watch them when I was young, many tournaments, so I watched a lot of their golf and Nick's wins in the million dollar and all of that.   
So I played a lot of golf with Mark, as well, a couple of times.   So it was really special to be playing under them.   As I said, they are a great bunch of guys, really relaxed and the vibe was pretty good on the team.  
   
 Q.   When is the first time you met them?   Did you ever ask for an autograph?   
RICHARD STERNE:   I walked a lot of rounds at the Million Dollar, so I saw Nick win quite a few tournaments there.   I remember when he shot 24‑under, could be '94 if I remember, which was just a phenomenal performance around there.   So I was there, and that stands out quite well.   
   
 Q.   Tony Johnstone the biggest character in your team room?  
RICHARD STERNE:   Yeah, he's definitely a character, that's for sure.   It's good to have him around.   He's got a lot of good jokes and a lot of good stories of the past.  
   
 Q.   How old were you when you heard the Tony/Seve story?   
RICHARD STERNE:   Yeah, many times, as soon as I got on Tour, I was told that story.   It's a pretty good one.  
   
 Q.   Ernie Els is probably the unofficial leader of your players.   Do you feel that‑‑ and I know the week is young, what kind of role does he play now?  
RICHARD STERNE:   Yeah, all the South Africans have looked up to Ernie many years.   He was winning Majors when we were still, what, 13 years old.   So it's quite something to be in the team with him.   It's a real honor and a special occasion for most of us, and you know, I'm sure as the week goes on, he'll give some good, strong advice going forward.   He's already won here once, in '04 I think and he knows the course well, and him and Adam have got a lot of experience in this event.   
He's taken us under his wing quite well and he's always there to give us some advice when we need anything.   He's always been there for us and he's been very kind.   He's been good to the South Africans.  
   
 Q.   Did you watch the 2003 Presidents Cup or did you attend it?  
RICHARD STERNE:   No, I didn't attend it but I definitely watched it out of the TV.   Out of all The Presidents Cups, that's definitely the one that stands out the most, the playoff one with Tiger and Ernie, the putts they made on 18 stands out.   It was I suppose fair that it was a draw in the end.  
   
 Q.   What's your biggest memory of The President Cup?  
RICHARD STERNE:   Probably that, the '03.   I was about 21, 22 then, and as I say, 2003 was really the first one that I remember.   
It's a goal that I've been trying to get into for a few years now.   I came close a couple years ago, four years ago before my injuries, so it's definitely something I wanted to get into.   I'm sure once you've played in this, it's something you're going to want to play in every two years.   
   
 Q.   The South Africans, does it help to have so many?   
RICHARD STERNE:   Yeah, obviously having more guys from one country will improve the team vibe, and having six guys from southern Africa is a big help, and a couple Australians, three Australians is pretty good, because we get on pretty well with those guys.   
The other two guys, three guys, Angel and Hideki, I'm sure‑‑ I know Angel pretty well from the European Tour.   I don't know Hideki very well but he seems like a nice guy.   You know, it's going to be a good event.   
   
 Q.   They didn't get to you with the haircut?   
RICHARD STERNE:   Yeah, if you started me without scissors, I knew that was not going to turn out well.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT