ALSTOM OPEN DE FRANCE
July 5, 2013
Richard Sterne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  RICHARD STERNE:   Yeah, it was a good finish to the day.   I started off well and kind of fell asleep halfway.   I made a couple weak bogeys from the fairway, and I had a good finish.   I birdied six, seven and eight, which are good birdies.

Q.   Pretty good birdies anywhere on this course I think, but coming through in a stretch like that, doesn't happen that often?
RICHARD STERNE:   No, it doesn't.   I hit good shots and I made good putts at the right time.   I think I needed to finish strong to give myself a chance going into the weekend.

Q.   Are you finding fairways and greens with regularity as you've got to do around here?
RICHARD STERNE:   Yeah, at the most, I've been driving the ball pretty well, and my short game is pretty good.   I've been rolling the ball very nicely, so that's kept my score where it is. 

Q.   I know it's one of those truisms in this game, but essentially that's what is needed around here and it's kind of what you do when you're at your best. 
RICHARD STERNE:   Yeah, I tend to make a couple good putts.   I'm normally a good ball‑striker, as well.   So if I can match the two, then generally I have a chance come Sunday afternoon.

Q.   Are you surprised or pleased things clicked back quickly after a break?
RICHARD STERNE:   No, I'm used to taking a bit of time off.   I generally take a week or so to get back into it. 
Last week was a good week playing Ireland.   I haven't played there in years, The Irish Open‑‑ well, I did play last year, but I didn't play other times when it's not on a links.   It's nice to put that back in the schedule and give myself a run up to The Open now.

Q.   Sometimes you play a windy course like that, it blows the swing out of sync, but has not done any damage this week. 
RICHARD STERNE:   No, it hasn't really.   It was actually in a way good.   Got to hit a lot of low shots and easier to find the fairways with irons and so probably good preparation last week.

Q.   Do you enjoy the linksy feel of this golf course?
RICHARD STERNE:   Yeah, I do, that's why I keep coming back here.   I just haven't finished up there at all but I do enjoy the golf course and hopefully I can do better than I have in the past.

Q.   What's needed over the weekend? 
RICHARD STERNE:   Shoot the lowest score.   It's about as simple as that.

Q.   That lowest score might just be 70. 
RICHARD STERNE:   Yeah, generally I think in the past, if the greens firm up, the scores tend to go‑‑ don't go much lower than probably after two rounds. 
So anything around 7‑ , 8‑under will probably have a chance, unless somebody plays really well. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT