VOLVO WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
May 16, 2013
Richard Sterne
Bo Van Pelt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   3‑up with six to go, I guess that feels like one that got away?   
RICHARD STERNE:   Yeah, Bo came back strong.   He made four or five birdies in a row.   It's tough to beat that.   He got off to a good start, and I did come back strong but a halve at the end of the day was quite fair.  
   
 Q.   When you are 3‑down with six holes to play, do you switch tactics and start getting more aggressive and going at more flags than you normally would?   
BO VAN PELT:   It's a bit of a tale of three matches.   I got off to a good start and let a couple go there in the middle.   He played well in the middle of the round and I didn't.   
At the end, I got a couple birdies, I hit some wedges close, which I drove the ball in play on those short holes and got good numbers for me and ended up with a halve, which was probably about right.  
   
 Q.   What about the pressures on the last couple of holes?   When you're tied, one good shot and you can win the match and one poor shot and you can lose it.   
RICHARD STERNE:   Obviously that's match play.   Bo hit a good shot on 17 and I lost 16.   I had a bit of issues in the bunker there.   Then he hit a good shot on 17, so the pressure was on.   Unfortunately he let one slip there from six‑foot.   
You don't want to lose a match after being 3‑up with six to go, so put a lot of pressure on me by him coming back with birdies.   As I said, at the end of the day, I made a good putt from 17 from four foot and another one on 18 to halve the match, which is good for me under the pressure.  
   
 Q.   Ogilvy tomorrow; thoughts on that?  
BO VAN PELT:   He's a great match‑play player and a great player.   Any time you play a Major Championship winner, you know it's going to be a good match.   
I think we for the most part played well today and we would probably like to clean up a few things and go out and play well tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   How did you find the course today?   
BO VAN PELT:   It was good.   I think the fairways were running firm, which was good to see.   It's fun to play that.   We don't get to play that very often.   I thought the green speed was very consistent and the ball was rolling probably as good as you could hope on a new golf course.  
Obviously it would be tough to play a stroke‑play event here, you could lose four or five shots on one hole.   Definitely makes you relax a little bit to know that if you hit a bad shot, it's only going to cost you one hole.   
RICHARD STERNE:   For a new course, a fairly new course, it's lovely.   As Bo said, it's definitely not something I would like to play stroke play on but match play, it's fun.   There are some holes that you can definitely attack and there's holes where you've got to kind of play safe and some dramatic holes, probably the most dramatic hole we play all year, so it's quite something.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT