TROPHEE HASSAN II
April 27, 2019
Richard Sterne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 69 around here is a very good score, but how do you feel now given what you achieved over the front nine?
RICHARD STERNE: Yeah, I felt like I let is slip a bit.  I bogeyed both par 5s.  That was a bit unfortunate.  It was a good day.  It's one of those golf courses, if you're slightly off, you make bogeys.  I didn't make good shots on the back nine and made those bogeys.
Q. Out in 30, 6-under, spectacular eagle hole-out on the third.  Tell us about that.
RICHARD STERNE: Yeah, just a really full 9-iron.  I know the slope brings it in from the left and it just pitched about six yards left and rolled down perfect and in it went, which surprising.  I don't hole too many, so quite a nice start.  Yeah, I played well, hit good shots, made nice putts, nothing too long, though.  It was a really nice start to the day and it was a nice day.  It's my daughter's birthday and my mom's birthday.  At least they got to see some of the golf.
Q. You were tied for the lead after nine.  Were you scoreboard watching?
RICHARD STERNE: I saw that.  I know the front nine is kind of playing probably a little easier than the back nine, so I thought that the guys, probably if I get to 7- or 8-under, I would be tied for the lead.  But I don't think I'm going to be too far off but the back nine is playing a little tricky today and pin placements are very close to a lot of trouble, you know, so the bunkers are causing a few issues.  The ball is plugging and, which will make it difficult if the guys do miss it there.
Q. We spoke earlier in the week and you mentioned the fact that you have an operation coming up.  How much pain are you playing in out there?
RICHARD STERNE: At the moment it's feeling pretty good.  The cortisone is working.  I'm going to go see a specialist in New York and weigh out my options from all the guys I've seen and make a decision on what he says and what everyone else says and try and see what's the best procedure from there on.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT