WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 21, 2013
Richard Sterne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   This was your first round, right? 
RICHARD STERNE:   Yeah, it's the first time.   I think I've been here three times, so hopefully this year, obviously a bit more experience.   And it's a lot different to the courses we play in South Africa and Europe, the greens especially, so that takes a bit of getting used to.   It's good to get through to the second round for a change.

Q.   What was it like, the wait and never knowing if we were going to start today?
RICHARD STERNE:   Yeah, it was just bizarre, isn't it?   It's a freak of nature what happened yesterday, and it was quite frankly interesting to see.   The wait was not the end of the world.   I know we've got enough time to get things done here.   It's just one of those things we have to deal with. 

Q.   Hunter Mahan up next, our defending champion.   Have you played any golf with him?
RICHARD STERNE:   I played with him the first year, and he did beat me.   I was up on him there, as well, so he came back strong again.   But hopefully today is different. 

Q.   Coming in in great form, playing really well all over the world it seems like.   Is this just a carryover of your confidence right now?
RICHARD STERNE:   Yeah, to get into here was quite special just to‑‑ I had to win pretty much both events almost.   Obviously my confidence is up.   But match play is a strange game, and it showed today.   I was 4‑up, and then suddenly I was struggling to finish the match off.   That just shows you a few birdies at the right time for somebody else can put a lot of pressure on.

Q.   You mentioned the two wins and now it kind of got you in here, and now with a good finish here you're pretty much writing your ticket to the Cadillac Championship, as well.   Just talk about how your season is kind of shaping up and a lot of doors are opening. 
RICHARD STERNE:   Yeah, I think I'm into the Cadillac, I think I get into the top 10 on the current Order of Merit.   That's quite nice.   I need to get past the third round to get into the Masters, so that's the goal this week.   That would be quite nice to do that.

Q.   Talk a little bit about the snow yesterday.   I know a lot of South African boys hadn't even seen snow in their life times.   Are you one of those guys?
RICHARD STERNE:   No, that was kind of the first time I've really seen snow like that.   I'm not big on the skiing and stuff like that, so it was quite nice for us actually.   But really bizarre.   It's so change to be out here playing golf after what happened yesterday.

Q.   Did you get out and throw some snowballs?
RICHARD STERNE:   I did.   I threw a few at Charl.   Unfortunately they all missed. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT