OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 3, 2013
Richard Sterne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  RICHARD STERNE:   Yeah, if you ask me at the beginning of the week, second place is obviously pretty good, but when you're leading a tournament for tied for the lead, one shot here or there, I'm disappointed.   
But when everything swung around on 16, I was one shot behind and then 17, I'm four shots behind that.   Kind of took the wind out of my sails really.   
All credit to Stevie, he made some good pars and birdies, 9 and 10 was a big swing around for him and the penalty drop on 10, he still makes par and that unbelievable birdie on 9.   Credit to him.   He hit good shots at the right time and that's what you've got to do when you need to win.   
   
 Q.   Another eagle, outrageous shot, really, as you say, wind out of your sails and nothing you could do to respond.     
RICHARD STERNE:   Yeah, it's one of those things.   I think it's the fourth shot he's holed this week.   So you know, it's tough to beat a guy when he's doing stuff like that.   I gave it as good a run as I could.   I'm not too disappointed.   It just I would have liked obviously to have won but this is how it is.  
   
 Q.   I don't know if enjoy is the word but did you like being back in the mix like that because it was virtually match play today.   
RICHARD STERNE:   The front nine, I played really well the front nine.   Really thought that if I continue with that, I'm going to definitely pull it off.   But I made a couple silly bogeys on the back nine, and which kind of happens.   It can happen in golf.   Just got to accept it and move on to the next week now.  
   
 Q.   Not a bad foundation for the season?  
RICHARD STERNE:   I'm pretty happy.   It's a nice start to the year really.   My wife is having a baby in June, so I'm going to play not as much golf this year as last year, so I'm going to take off a bit of time and this will allow me to now plan my year around that, which is good.   
I want to get out there and win again.   It's frustrating to come to close and not do it.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT