OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 2, 2013
Richard Sterne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Your thoughts on round three, please?   
RICHARD STERNE:   Yeah, I'm quite happy.   The weather was a bit dodgy in the beginning, but the weather kind of came around and it wasn't too bad.   The conditions are pretty good.   As you can see, a couple good scores.   You know, shooting 66 and I'm three behind, which unfortunately can happen in this game.   
   
 Q.   After a blemish at the first, you recovered nicely, a good score, isn't it?   
RICHARD STERNE:   Yeah, I've given myself a chance going into tomorrow, in the last group again which will be hopefully a lot of fun and put some good scores on there and put some pressure on Steven.  
   
 Q.   How was it playing in the rain?   How different was the course today compared to other days?   
RICHARD STERNE:   It was actually quite good today.   There was a few patches where the wind was blowing in the rain but it wasn't too bad, and it softened it up a bit which does make it a bit easier.   
   
 Q.   Quite some score, isn't it, Stephen Gallacher today.   
RICHARD STERNE:   Yeah, he shot 63 and I walked past him and said, well, can't you shoot 62 around here.   Kind of answered me.   I'm happy for him.   He's a good player and he's got quite a good record around here.   I think he's always had a couple top 5s.   It's going to take some doing but there's still guys behind.   And as Stephen showed today, a low score is out there so someone who is six, seven behind can still post a good one.  
We'll see, I'm in a decent position.   I'm a bit more comfortable perhaps not leading going into the last round as you can see by my history, not that I've really led going into the last round, either.   I'm excited.   Just got to whole a couple good putts at the right time again and I made a couple long ones today, but a couple short ones, but hopefully tomorrow they all go in.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT