OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 1, 2013
Richard Sterne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You started the day one ahead and you end it one ahead, how do you feel about your play today? 
RICHARD STERNE:   Yeah, it was pretty consistent.   The course was a lot tougher today with the wind and the greens definitely firmed out a bit.   I think it's going to be quite tricky coming to the weekend.   There's a lot of guys bunched up and you're going to have to play pretty well on the weekend to be there on Sunday.

Q.   How well do you feel you're swinging? 
RICHARD STERNE:   Fairly well.   You know, this game is strange.   Sometimes you feel great and you don't score that well and sometimes you feel so‑so and you score well.   This week, it's feeling okay.   Not a 100 per cent but good enough to compete. 

Q.   Are there holes out there that you feel comfortable and a bit ill at ease, standing on the tee does not quite suit you? 
RICHARD STERNE:   Yeah, every course has got that and here is no exception.   The front nine is tough, there are some par 4s that are depending on the wind, quite stern tests and then the back nine does offer up opportunities.   But you've also got to take them. 

Q.   You missed a lot of 2010 and 2011 with injury; does that make moments like this even sweeter? 
RICHARD STERNE:   Yeah, it was a long time sitting at home watching all the guys and especially the South Africans winning and Branden winning a lot last year but it's not to be back in the action and to have a chance going into the weekend. 

Q.   Your verdict on two rounds and still leading? 
RICHARD STERNE:   I'm pretty happy with the performance today.   It was not as easy as yesterday.   Things didn't go as easy, but I'm quite happy.   I held it together and I made a couple good putts at the right time and a couple good shots. 

Q.   Always hard to backup a score like Thursday but what made it trickier today?
RICHARD STERNE:   The wind definitely came up a bit and firmed the greens out.   You can't stop the ball on the rough here and especially with the firm greens, that made it a lot trickier to get it close to the hole so not as many birdie opportunities. 
The front nine, you have to just negotiate your way through and hopefully get to the back nine 1‑ or 2‑under and then you have some opportunities on the par5s and a couple shorter par 4s.   If you can do, that you should put a decent score together.

Q.   We mentioned how well you played in coming back last year, but when is the last time you really felt maybe in control of your game like this and leading a tournament with such a great chance? 
RICHARD STERNE:   I always kind of won coming from behind.   I've been close to the lead on Sunday so I know what it's about.   There's a long way to go in this tournament.   The guys are bunched up and there's some good players and I think anyone five or six back has still got a good chance of winning. 

Q.   Comes a bit harder in the afternoon?
RICHARD STERNE:   Yeah, definitely, especially here, things do firm up as the day goes on, especially if the wind comes up.   The guys in the morning do generally have a better scoring opportunity.

Q.   What score is needed? 
RICHARD STERNE:   Somewhere normally around 18‑, 20‑under, if you look at the history of this tournament, has always got a chance.   So I would expect something like that.   Depends on the wind, as well, but I think somebody will be close to that.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT