ISPS HANDA WALES OPEN
June 3, 2012
Richard Sterne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How do you reflect on this week?   
RICHARD STERNE:   It was a good week.   I was pretty consistent all the way around.   My short game was pretty good again, and tee‑to‑green was better than last week.   Wasn't really in bad places most of the time.   I had a couple doubles the first day and that was about it.   I didn't have too many bogeys after that.   
Today was just a bit unfortunate.   I could have done something quite special I think.   Just had four or five putts that I thought were in and just didn't go in.   Could have put a bit of pressure on the guys.   I was like four or five behind with four to go, so it was asking a bit much.     
But I'm happy with my finish, an eagle on 15 and birdie on 17 which is a really good birdie.   When I was playing it was raining and blowing.  
   
 Q.   You have hung in there all week, so you had a sniff of a chance into the final, didn't you?  
RICHARD STERNE:   Yeah, you always want to have a chance going into the back nine on Sunday, and I think I was four or five behind and I knew I needed to do something.   I was hitting good putts, and I'll take a lot of confidence from that.   I felt good coming down the stretch, very relaxed and enjoying it really.   I hit good shots coming down on 16 and 17, which I enjoyed.   
   
 Q.   Talk us through the eagle on 15 and the effect that had on you looking up at the leaderboard?  
RICHARD STERNE:   Yeah, 15 is a chance that, you know, you can either make a 2 there or a 5 or a 6 quickly.   I hit a really good tee shot and it ended up about eight feet.   
For the first time I made a putt from that distance today which was nice.   I saw that I was only two behind and I thought if I can get to 6, I've got a chance.   But I made a really good 2 on 17, as well.   
Standing on 15, if you said I was going to hit 5‑under I would have ran.   I can't really complain.  
   
 Q.   When you consider the way Wentworth went, to put two together back‑to‑back after such a long layoff that must be doubly satisfying.   
RICHARD STERNE:   Yeah, it's really nice.   I couldn't have asked for two better weeks after coming back really from five missed cuts in a row, which is the worst I've ever done in my career.   I think three was my worst.   I wasn't too happy.   And also with the injuries, I needed to get my money up and just wanted to take the pressure off and this has definitely done that and allowed me to play next year.   
If the injury came back, I was always worried, if I haven't got my money, I'd have to go to Tour School and all of that.   It was quite stressful.     
Now onwards and upwards.   My goal is get back into the top 100 in the world and back into the PGA by August and hopefully top 50 by end of the year and beginning of next year and get back to where I feel like I can play.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT