HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 8, 2007
Richard Sterne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  A good day, if you would; I take it that is a good day?   
 RICHARD STERNE:  Yeah, a nice start.  I haven't really had a good start for a while.  Yeah, 68 is pretty decent around here.  The course is quite tricky.  You know, the rough is up.  But putted nicely.  Didn't do too much wrong, so that was nice.   
  
  Q.  And literally in terms of the start, getting off to birdie, eagle at the beginning, couldn't be better for the momentum, could it?   
 RICHARD STERNE:  Yeah, that was quite a nice start.  It doesn't happen often.  I just kept it going.  I missed a couple makeable birdies out there.  So hopefully tomorrow make a few more and give us ourselves a chance.   
  
  Q.  And how are you in terms of acclimatising?   
 RICHARD STERNE:  Yeah, I struggled to sleep last night actually.  The first night was fine but a bit tired now.   
 We'll see what happens.  Hopefully tonight I don't wake up at one o'clock.   
  
  Q.  I take it you had it pretty easily coming out from Spain without any hassles along the way?   
 RICHARD STERNE:  Yeah, straight here, it was fine.  In the back, though, cattle class.  But I slept all right.  Yeah, we'll see, hopefully by Saturday, I'll be feeling good.   
  
  Q.  Does it feel weird that 2007 finishes one week, and 2008 does start the next?   
 RICHARD STERNE:  Yeah, it does, but it actually makes no difference nowadays.  If you want to get off to a good start to the new season.   
  
  Q.  Is it one of those things where you say, it is a new season, let's get off to a good start, and you can at least get that into your mind.   
 RICHARD STERNE:  Yeah, I suppose a little bit, you know, but it's just another week, and you know, it's a big prize fund this week.  There's not that many good players, in a way, so it's a way to try to get off to a good start if you play decently.  But you still have to play decently, because they can still beat you, these guys.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT