THE QUINN DIRECT BRITISH MASTERS
September 20, 2007
Richard Sterne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   RODDY WILLIAMS:  A seven under par 65 puts you into a share of the lead - you must be very pleased? 
 RICHARD STERNE:  I wasn't expecting much to be honest. I have just taken four weeks off. Physically this year has taken a lot out of me. It has been a good year. It was a lot fun today. It was nice playing with Monty and Santiago today. 
 RODDY WILLIAMS:  You took a bit of a break, what have you been up to and did you have any rust? 
 RICHARD STERNE:  I just needed a break.  I can't play every week.  I don't know how these guys play as many tournaments as they do.  I try and play the least amount as possible.  I'm not the biggest practicer and all that, so that's what I do and it seems to work. 

 Q.  How many do you play in all? 
 RICHARD STERNE:  I think probably 22.  I think I'm on my 17th or 18th now, 18th event. 
 Yeah, I've always said from the beginning, if you can't perform in 20 events, then you really shouldn't be out here. 

 Q.  Have you been suffering with a cold? 
RICHARD STERNE:  No, just I've been struggling with my feet to be honest with you.  Been having quite a lot of issues and that seems to be affecting my calves and Achilles and all that, so I'm not exactly feeling 100 per cent.  Trying to sort that out but it is not as easy as I thought. 

 Q.  Have you been to see anyone about it? 
 RICHARD STERNE:  Yeah, I'm trying to find the right orthatics at moment and nothing seems to be working.  I've been to quite a few different people.  It's quite strenuous but nothing too serious. 

 Q.  Do you have the orthatics in the shoes? 
 RICHARD STERNE:  yeah. 

 Q.  How long have you had the problem? 
 RICHARD STERNE:  Oh, I've had it for about a year.  It's nothing too serious.  I'll survive. 
 RODDY WILLIAMS:  Been a very good year so far, a number of Top 10's and all that sort of stuff, right up there on the Order of Merit.  
 RICHARD STERNE:  Yeah, just nice to be able to have a good finish.  There's not too many events coming up and I would like to get another one under my belt which would be nice but winning isn't so easy.  Except when Tiger is doing it, I suppose, that's the only guy that makes it look easy. 
 Yeah, it would be nice to get another win before the end of this year. 

 Q.  Can you give us the details? 
 RICHARD STERNE:  Yeah, I made birdie on 2.  I hit sand wedge to three feet and made that. 
 Then on 3, I hit a good 7-wood to about 15 feet and made the eagle there. 
 And I made pars all the way coming in and then 10 I hit a wedge to about three, four feet as well, made that. 
 14, I hit 7-iron to about 20 feet and made that. 
 Chipped up to about six feet and made that. 
 Lob-wedge to 20 feet and made that. 
 And I had a good 2-putt on the last from the belly down there.  Couldn't see the hole; too short. 
 RODDY WILLIAMS:  Well played, thanks. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT