BARCLAYS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 8, 2005
Richard Sterne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Thoughts on the round?
RICHARD STERNE:  Well it wasn't as interesting as yesterday but I finished with two birdies and that turned a normal round into a decent round and that gave me a bit of confidence, so we'll see.
Q. That's the attitude to take when you do drop a couple of shots as you did after the turn?
RICHARD STERNE:  I actually got a bit unlucky on the first but I said to myself it was just one of those things and it was my first bogey of the week. But I came back with a good birdie at the third and I have been fairly relaxed. Golf is a strange game and you just have to keep going as you know.
Q. It is the right attitude to have?
RICHARD STERNE:  Well, we'll see. Sometimes it works.
Q. I believe you weren't entirely happy with your iron play?
RICHARD STERNE:  No I am losing it right on some of the shots but I am not hitting it that badly, I am hitting it good off the tee so that is making it a little easier but I could definitely do with hitting my irons a little better.
Q. And how is your back?
RICHARD STERNE:  It is all right and not hurting. It is a bit sore at night times and in the mornings but I loosen it up during the day and it has been all right. I go to the physios every day, stretching and stuff. But I think it is something that I have always had as a result of all the sport I played as a youngster. I played cricket and squash pretty competitively so there was a lot of jolting around. Last week they said I should rest it a bit so I didn't hit a ball for four or five days. I'm not the biggest practiser so that was quite easy for me. Just rest is best for it.
Q. Are you going to keep that relaxed attitude into the weekend?
RICHARD STERNE:  It is tricky sometimes, some days you are relaxed and some days you are not. But hopefully the weather will hold up like this. It has been fantastic and it has reminded me of being back home in South Africa.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT