BARCLAYS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 7, 2005
Richard Sterne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. How would you assess today's round?
RICHARD STERNE:  It started nicely and I made about a 20 footer on the first hole and I hit the ball pretty solidly in the first few holes and I putted really well today, that saved me, and I had good up and downs on the last three holes. I always struggle a little bit on the last three holes here for some reason, it must be some sort of mental block but I got through them today so that is good.
Q. Happy to play from the bunker at the 18th?
RICHARD STERNE:  Well, I wasn't planning on hitting it there - I'm losing the ball right a little bit for some reason - but I'll take a four.
Q. You must be as pleased with no dropped shots?
RICHARD STERNE: Yes, as I said, I upped and downed every time I missed the green and I made birdies on some good holes out there.
Q. How are you feeling because you retired from Ireland?
RICHARD STERNE:  Well, I am actually quite sore and my back is not that great and I am not on full power - I am not hitting it as far as I normally do but as long as the putting works I am not going to complain.
Q. How were the greens out there?
RICHARD STERNE: They aren't the best and they get a bit bumpy with the spike marks but that is just the way it is, it is the same for everybody and I think the afternoon players get the worst end. I didn't practice much putting on the putting green yesterday because I hit five putts and thought no more, this is going to shatter my mind. Maybe I should do that more often.
Q. Aside from the back, you must be pretty happy with the way things are going this year?
RICHARD STERNE: Yes, this year has been pretty consistent and I think last weekend was the first weekend I wasn't playing and that was because I pulled out. Things have been very consistent which is what I prefer. I don't like being up and down, but that is down to the putting and ever since I changed to the claw grip that has given me a lot of confidence and that is the main reason.
Q. Confidence from winning in Madrid, as well?
RICHARD STERNE:  Well, you feel like you belong out here and that helps a lot. Coming out onto the range and you see Mickelson and Goosen and it doesn't bother you. I remember last year doing the same thing in Dubai and I thought to myself, what am I doing out here. But now I am next to them, I feel relaxed and that can only be a good thing.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT