ABU DHABI HSBC CHAMPIONSHIP
January 18, 2019
Richard Sterne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Give us your reflections on a round of 69 in tricky conditions.
RICHARD STERNE: I'm very happy, good back nine and I hit the ball pretty decently.  It was obviously a lot tougher today.  The course showed its teeth and 69 proved to be a good score.
Q. We had a little chat as you left the 10th tee and you were currently four behind at that stage, but you chipped in for eagle there to bring it down to two.  Describe that shot to us.
RICHARD STERNE: I was trying to hit it to within six or eight feet.  It was a pretty tough shot into the grain there.  The grain here is a bit tricky I find, and came out well.  I wasn't expecting it to go in, and in it went.  That's always nice.  A bit of a bonus.  I had a couple crucial putts on the back nine, as well.
Q. Give us your thoughts on tomorrow in the final group with Shane Lowry.  Not quite sure what he's going to finish.  Give us your thoughts on that day.
RICHARD STERNE: Yeah, looking forward to it.  I was quite relaxed today.  Yesterday I was a little nervous for some reason.  It's been a long time since I've been in contention but I've managed to pull it off a few times, so maybe there's some magic left in me.
Q. A round of 69, uneventful on the front nine but that eagle on 10 really helped to kick start things for you today?
RICHARD STERNE: Yeah, it was a little unexpected shot but something I was trying to hit fairly close and in it went which is always a bit of a bonus.
Q. Your greens in regulation stats have been superb so far.  Are you pleased to get through unscathed with the way conditions changed?
RICHARD STERNE: Yeah, I didn't expect it to be so tough but the course showed its teeth a little bit here and there, and 9 was pretty long.  We were hitting wedges the first few days and today hit a big drive and 6-iron in with a strong left-to-right wind, which is not ideal.
So it's definitely a tougher day.  And 69 I think was a good score.
Q. You nearly got to within a shot of Shane, the birdie putt lipping out, slightly frustrating to finish?
RICHARD STERNE: Yeah, hit such a poor second shot unfortunately a little too much to ask for a 3-iron and I put a bad swing there.  Hit a lovely putt.  I was just trying to make 5 to be honest after where I was.  I'm happy with my score.
Q. Out in the final group tomorrow, how excited are you about the prospect of playing and being in contention in this big tournament?
RICHARD STERNE: Yeah, it's lovely.  It's nice to be in contention.  It's been a long time.  I've managed to win a few in my life, so hopefully there's something left there and if we can have a chance coming down the last five or six, that would be a nice way to finish.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT