THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 29, 1996
Arnaud Boetsch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOE LYNCH:  Everybody ready?  The first question for Arnaud.  
 

Q.  Where is the intro? 
 
ARNAUD BOETSCH:  Only ten, it was all right.  
 

Q.  Arnaud, very good tournament for you, you had stretches of real brilliance today.  You hit four or five service returns which were just inexplicably awful, what happened? 
 
ARNAUD BOETSCH:  You mean I miss it?  
 

Q.  Went off the top of your frame, then there was the second serve after the debated let court, then it was like you made no contact at all? 
 
ARNAUD BOETSCH:  Yeah, I mean, his serve is pretty strange sometimes because he is not like a huge serve, you know, a very high ball, so the ball was going very slowly and very high and very around the net, sometimes with the wind I was just surprised.  If I get tight a little bit, you know, I miss it.  And with the sun and, you know, all my tournaments in the shoulder, I got -- I lost my, I don't know -- all my, you know, focus.  That's why I missed the shots.  
 

Q.  You said the last time you played he killed you.  How would you evaluate this? 
 
ARNAUD BOETSCH:  No, today was all right.  It was a match.  I didn't feel, you know, so great today.  I was a bit heavy and a little bit tight at the beginning, to be honest, I was tight.  
 

Q.  Do you know why? 
 
ARNAUD BOETSCH:  I feel all my tournament and I want to play well and I want, you know, I thought I had good chance maybe, and try to play like I played the day before, but actually, I didn't play so well in tournament, like in my shots, you know, I was not hitting the ball in every shot, but I was just fighting and today physically and maybe a little bit tight mentally.  I didn't fight so well, you know, that's maybe the difference, but that's why I am a little bit disappointed today.  
 

Q.  You did fight well early the second set.  You lost 11 consecutive points and you were down 40-Love, you fought back and won that game? 
 
ARNAUD BOETSCH:  Yeah.  
 

Q.  You still think you didn't fight? 
 
ARNAUD BOETSCH:  Well, yeah, I was fighting, you know, I was feeling a little bit heavy, you know, he was quite tough.  Not as tough as two days ago, still moving very well. I had my chance in the first set, too, you know, it was 4-1 and I came back to 4-3 and I had these two breakpoints and I missed two forehand returns.  The second one was really strange, you know.  I started to have a blank, you know, I didn't hit the ball very well.  I lost the first set.  I had mentally -- I was mentally a bit down and I lost 11 points in a row.  I was still in the match, he was pretty tough.  I didn't hit the ball like I wanted to.  
 

Q.  You are talking mentally is it harder -- how different is it when you play Agassi in terms of your mentality than playing the other players you played here? 
 
ARNAUD BOETSCH:  It is maybe not just Agassi, it is maybe, you know, to be in the semifinals, it is only four players now in tournament and, you know, I'm pretty close to maybe win the championship, you know, or win very good matches, it is maybe my best tournament for my career, so I wanted to be ready for this match, maybe too much and maybe I miss it a little bit.  In terms of feeling the ball well, you know, maybe a great match.  It was okay -- okay make, but not a great one.  
 

Q.  Did you sleep last night, this morning? 
 
ARNAUD BOETSCH:  I was thinking a little bit too much maybe.  
 

Q.  The ground stroke he's been very good, he hit a lot of backhand winners off the ground, are you ready now for the clay court, do you feel very confident going into the clay court? 
 
ARNAUD BOETSCH:  I have to get used to the clay court, that's right, I hit some good shots.  I miss some, sometimes, the wind was a bit, you know, I don't know how.  
 
ARNAUD BOETSCH:  Yes, tricky so I had to concentrate, you know, a lot.  I lost a little bit of my concentration some time, but I feel ready for the clay court set and I hope I am going to do well, especially in the French.  
 

Q.  You had a chance for a break late in the first set, it seemed like he hit a ball that was very deep and I guess it was debatable whether it was on the line or out, it seemed like that took you a little bit out of your rhythm? 
 
ARNAUD BOETSCH:  It was a deuce?  
 

Q.  Yes. 
 
ARNAUD BOETSCH:  Yes, after my breakpoint or something?  
 

Q.  Yes. 
 
ARNAUD BOETSCH:  Yes, but, you know, some linesmen make some mistakes, but I make some too, so that's all right.  
 

Q.  Did that affect you at all; did you get mentally frustrated? 
 
ARNAUD BOETSCH:  Sometimes you need some more -- I hit some lucky in the last couple of match so, you know, it is just like that.  You know, the thing is I have to win the point on my breakpoint I miss that and after that a lot of things can happen.  
 

Q.  It is hard to debate a let court ball; isn't it? 
 
ARNAUD BOETSCH:  Which one?  
 

Q.  In the second set you thought it was a let call on a serve return you hit for a winner, it is hard to debate that? 
 
ARNAUD BOETSCH:  Yes, that's right.  This one was disappointing a little bit, yeah, I thought the ball was very  -- going this way or around the net, so maybe the ball was let, I don't know.  I was pretty, you know, sharp on this one, it was good forehand and the referee just say it was let, but, you know, it's all right.  It is -- the match is not on this point.  
 

Q.  Do you feel this is your best tournament?  How has the tournament changed you? 
 
ARNAUD BOETSCH:  It didn't change me a lot.  
 

Q.  Did it give you more confidence? 
 
ARNAUD BOETSCH:  Oh, yeah, yeah, sure.  I didn't play so well on hardcourt outside, so it was -- it's maybe my best one on my career, that's right, but, yeah, I got some confidence now, I am ready to play the '96 season and I hope I am going to be better than that because I need to be better on the, you know, big matches like this one today, you know. That's the thing to do.  
 

Q.  Is this your biggest paycheck in a tournament? 
 
ARNAUD BOETSCH:  I have no idea how much I have earned, but close, yeah, maybe.  
 

Q.  What will you do with the money? 
 
ARNAUD BOETSCH:  You know, I have a wife and a baby now, I have a lot of things to do with that.  
 

Q.  Do they need $80,000? 
 
ARNAUD BOETSCH:  I mean, my baby needs education and things, so, you know, wipes and things like that.  
 

Q.  How old is the baby? 
 
ARNAUD BOETSCH:  He is almost five months.  He needs a lot of things, you know.  
 

Q.  Does he have a two-handed backhand? 
 
ARNAUD BOETSCH:  Him?  
 

Q.  Yes, the baby. 
 
ARNAUD BOETSCH:  I don't know, I don't know yet, you know, I didn't see him for three weeks, so he is changing a lot.  Maybe now yeah.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT