VOLVO MONTE-CARLO OPEN
April 19, 1994
Arnaud Boetsch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Do you still feel the effect of your illness last week?
 
ARNAUD BOETSCH:  There is no doubt that I lack energy.  The positive side of this match is that I was able to play good rallies and good shots.  I had a good feeling on the court. 
 

Q.  Are you nervous?
 
ARNAUD BOETSCH:  No, what makes me nervous is being sick last week.  I am furious that I was sick last week.  I like the Nice tournament and Monte Carlo very much, and I feel quite weak here this week, and this makes me furious. 
 

Q.  What was it a food intoxication?
 
ARNAUD BOETSCH:  Yes, that is what they said.  It was a virus, but it is not going to last long.  But spending two or three days in bed before playing is not a very good preparation.  It is not an ideal preparation.  I lost a lot of strength. 
 

Q.  Do you think this will be a problem for your preparation to the French Open?
 
ARNAUD BOETSCH:  No, I thought Nice was negative, but here I played a few shots that I liked a lot.  So it is more positive.  I hope Munich will go well and also the doubles on clay.  I need to get used to the surface. 
 

Q.  The other French players are also losing. What do you think of that?
 
ARNAUD BOETSCH:  Well, you saw all the matches.  So you will draw your own conclusions, I guess.  I think in an individual tournament like this one, each case is different.  Each one has its own - his own problems. Personally, I know which problems I have, and I know how to solve them.  As to the other players, I haven't seen their match.  I know Cedric has his own problems. But there are still some French players in the tournament, and I hope they will carry our flag. 
 

Q.  What is your program?
 
ARNAUD BOETSCH:  I am going to Munich.  I hope I will win some matches there, because otherwise I will miss some matches.  Then I have one week when I am not playing. It is the week during Hamburg.  And then I am playing the NATION CUP with Cedric and Olivier.  Then I am playing Rome and the French Open.  I hope I will be able to have a good rhythm before the French Open. 
 

Q.  Your opponent was a good player?
 
ARNAUD BOETSCH:  Yes, indeed.  It was very pleasant playing against him.  He hits his forehand very early.  He has a good chip.  And he really earned that match.  He didn't give it away to me.  Next round he is going to play Woodforde.  I think his game will suit him because Yzaga passes very well. 
 

Q.  I would like to talk about the Davis Cup. You are going to play against Sweden on a fast surface.  What do you think of that?
 
ARNAUD BOETSCH:  It is always difficult to make a choice a long time in advance.  Given my results on clay last year, and this year also, I think it is better that we play on a hard surface.  Edberg is good on clay and Gustafsson can be dangerous on all surfaces.  We personally feel at ease on this surface and we mostly wanted to play well ourselves rather than bothering them by our choice of surface.  Now, we don't know  exactly what kind of hard surface it will be.  We don't know how fast it will be. 
 

Q.  Were you consulted on this choice?
 
ARNAUD BOETSCH:  Yes, I think all the players had their word to say. 
 

Q.  What do you think of your next doubles match against two French players, in view of the Davis Cup?
 
ARNAUD BOETSCH:  Well, we laughed about it.  We thought that playing Guy and Henri was quite funny; especially that ten days ago we didn't even know whether we were going to play or not.  I don't feel under pressure these days.  I just hope it is going to be a good match and anyway, the winner of that match will not be sure of playing Davis Cup. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT