COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 29, 2017
Jordan Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How good a round was that out there today, 66 in that breeze?  
JORDAN SMITH: I'm very happy with the way I played.  It got tough on the back nine, especially, the wind picked up.  But I'm just really happy that I went out there and got a Top-10.   
 Q.  As the breeze was building, were you aware that if you posted a score, something good might happen for you?  
JORDAN SMITH: Yeah, yeah, definitely had that in the back of my mind sort of thinking getting into the back nine that it's going to be a bit tougher for the guys that went outlast.   
 Q.  How tough are the closing holes playing, 16, 17, 18?  
JORDAN SMITH: Yeah, 15 is crosswind, and 16 is downwind but it's hard to hold it.  17 is a tough par 3 no matter what the wind is.  Yeah, they moved the tee up on 18 to give everyone a chance, but yeah, a tough par 5.   
 Q.  If you don't win, you never know what's going to happen.  How excited are you about going to Dubai next week?  
JORDAN SMITH: No, I'm over the moon.  I obviously knew that I would get a Top-10 to get into next week.  I've got my parents coming out and a few other people, so it will be nice to see them after five weeks away.   
 Q.  6-under, get your thoughts on that?  
JORDAN SMITH: Yeah, just really over the moon with the way I played.  Especially over the weekend, yesterday struggled, but I battled and got it done.   
 Q.  Conditions have changed.  Talk about that.  
JORDAN SMITH: Yeah, the front nine, it was pretty calm, and then got to the back nine and it started blowing.  So I knew that it was going to be a bit of a struggle for the guys outlast.   
 Q.  The chip-in at 12, that was nice.  
JORDAN SMITH: I couldn't believe it to be honest.  I pitched it where I wanted it to and it just released out perfectly.   
 Q.  Another Top-10, so really excited for Dubai next week; what are your thoughts going into that?  
JORDAN SMITH: I'm really looking forward.  Got my parents coming out and a few other people coming to watch, so I'm just really looking forward to it now.   
 Q.  Taken this position at the start of the week?  
JORDAN SMITH: Yeah, definitely.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT