DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 17, 2018
Jordan Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Within one shot of the lead, how important was that last hole for you?  
JORDAN SMITH: Yeah, like I said a couple days ago, we're staying quite a aggressive on the par 5s this week, ended up going for it, even with that tucked pin position.  Thankfully found a nice lie in the semi and played a lovely shot, and it was nice to get that birdie on the final hole.   
 Q.  Do you feel like you can carry some momentum off this round, especially with that last birdie?  
JORDAN SMITH: Definitely, that last birdie on the last sort of four holes, with those few birdies coming in, will definitely go into tomorrow with a lot of confidence and kind of looking forward to it.   
 Q.  We talked earlier in the week, confidence is one week and expectations, especially is another.  How do you approach tomorrow with this great opportunity in front of you?  
JORDAN SMITH: I don't think I'll go in with any expectations.  Just going to go enjoy it.  Whatever happens, happens.  Yeah, I'm just not going to put pressure on myself.   
 Q.  The grand scale of this tournament, how important was that birdie on 18 to get within one shot of the lead?  
JORDAN SMITH: It was pretty important to get myself there for the round tomorrow.  I'm happy with the last sort of five holes I played, just getting a few birdies.   
 Q.  Three birdies in the last five, a very good finish coming home on some very difficult holes on this golf course?  
JORDAN SMITH: Yeah, with that wind it was very tricky.  A lot of holes played long, and some tricky positions, as well.  Especially with a few of the longer holes playing into the wind, with longer irons, you got worried about the pin and had to play away from them and just take your medicine.   
 Q.  66 on the final day here last year, so you know what it's like and you know what's needed to shoot low on this golf course, and if you can keep this consistency up, you must be confident about your chances?  
JORDAN SMITH: I'd take 66 if I could.  But even last year, the last few rounds I've had here have been good.  The course suits me and I'm just going to go out there, same game plan as the last couple days and attack the par 5s and hopefully a few putts sink in the final round.   
 Q.  How excited to be one shot off the lead at the Flagship Event at the end of the season?  
JORDAN SMITH: I've been really looking forward to it, especially this event, like I said, the course suits me.  But it will be nice getting in the final couple of groups, and yeah, going out there and doing battle.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT