U.S. AMATEUR FOUR-BALL CHAMPIONSHIP
May 27, 2019
Andrew Noto
James Fuselier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Guys, congratulations on making it through the first round.  Andrew, let's start with you.  You know, did you feel like this morning, getting through the playoff gave you a little momentum coming into this match?
ANDREW NOTO: Absolutely, yeah.  I mean, any time you kind of survive, and we were an eight-footer for par on the, I guess that would be the 6th hole -- away from not getting through.  Knocked that down, make birdie on the next, and get through.  That's, you know, kind of gets the wheels going early in the morning like that.
Q. And James, this is your first USGA Championship.  I mean, what's that -- it's like going from a playoff and then you have to get right back on the horse again.
JAMES FUSELIER: It's incredible.  I was in the playoff in the Louisiana Mid-Am last year.  So having that experience to draw on definitely helped out a lot today.
Q. And Andrew, obviously, you played on many tours.  You've played in the Am in 2010 in Chambers, right?
ANDREW NOTO: Correct.
Q. Going through those experiences, how much did that help you today?
ANDREW NOTO: Yeah, you know.  I actually just texted my dad.  I played in the pub links in '09 as well and lost in the round of 64.  Then the guy that beat me didn't miss from inside ten feet, and that's the key to match play.
Just when they think that they have the door's open, when you can make an eight-footer, it's demoralizing to the other team.  So I felt like if we could just make the putts we needed to today, it would go a long way for us.
Q. You guys got it going around the 6th hole, where you really took control.  You birdied 6.  You birdied 8.  How did you guys do that?
ANDREW NOTO: James made about a 30, 35 footer on 6.
Q. Tell me about that, James?
JAMES FUSELIER: Yeah, just right up the hill, and I had a pretty good idea what it was going to do from the playoff in the morning, watching all the guys putt it.  Once again, the playoff experience there this morning helped out a lot.
Q. And then you went to 8?
ANDREW NOTO: Yeah, 8, I guess I ran in about a 25-footer there.  James was in there 15 feet.  But --
Q. What did you hit in?
ANDREW NOTO: That was a 6.  I hit a 6 iron pin high right, just right-to-left breaker and went right in the heart.
Q. James, you're 3 up, you got to be thinking to yourself, this isn't that easy.  What were you thinking at that time?
JAMES FUSELIER: It's not easy, just what Andrew said a few minutes ago.  You don't want to make a bogey and let them win with a par.  You want to have to make them earn it.  You want to have to have them make birdies to beat you.  In match play, a lot of pars when you're up, it makes them have to press and do stuff that they're not comfortable doing.
Q. What did you think you guys did well as a team?
ANDREW NOTO: Our games really complement each other.  So if I can get a lot of looks and free him up and just let him do his thing and stay out of the way, we'll do pretty good.
Q. Have you guys played in four-ball together before?  Have you played in tournaments together?
ANDREW NOTO: No, no tournaments.  We played plenty of Nassaus back home in New Orleans together.  No four-balls.  Shoot, you got to sign up for this thing in August, right?  So last August, he sent me a text, hey, let's play the four-ball qualifier together.  We got through there and really just having fun.  I mean, talk about mini tour golf, I told a friend this morning, that eight-footer that I made, if it went in or didn't go in, my life doesn't change.  Whereas when you're playing for a living, it's a lot different.  This is a heck of a lot easier.  It's a heck of a lot more fun.
Q. James, I don't know if you know this, but a lot of Louisiana guys are getting through so far.  Kyle Williams and his partner got through already today, and obviously Derek Busby is out there too.  Is there something going on in Louisiana we should know about?
JAMES FUSELIER: It's got to be.  Our director, Logan Ray, said yesterday when we finished up.  He said something in the water this week, and we're doing Louisiana proud.  So I guess so.
Q. You guys got time to rest today, but you're looking at double rounds the next couple of days.  What will you do to prepare?
ANDREW NOTO: I think we're going to go play The Preserve this afternoon.  I mean, why not.  Nothing else to do.  I mean, you know, I can go take a nap, but then I just won't sleep tonight.  So we'll probably go play The Preserve this afternoon.
Q. Thanks for your time.  Good luck to you.
ANDREW NOTO: Thank you.  Appreciate it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT