BARRACUDA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 6, 2017
Stuart Appleby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Nine points today.  Just a few short.  But just comment on the final round.  
STUART APPLEBY: I was trying to think, trying to make eight birdies today.  I didn't know how many bogeys I could put in there as well.  But I thought if I just have eight, hopefully that's clean enough golf.   
It's a dynamic format.  You never quite know where you are, quite as simple one shot can go either way.  It's interesting because you can come from behind or you can build a big lead.   
For me, I had to squeeze a few more birdies on the back nine.  I was just trying to deal with being in position, just trying to keep my nerves in check.  And I hit some sloppy shots, but it was good.  I would have liked to have milked a birdie on the last hole.   
I made a poor choice on my chipping/landing spot.  I think I needed to either putt it from five, six yards short or just land it in the fringe and get it to stub.   
I sort of new it was quick to chip, but it was way too quick.  And I actually thought I hit a decent putt, turned out not to be the case.   
And Greg actually said he was happy to see my ball roll the way it did because it gave him a bit more impetus to give it more break.  Looked good for me.  I've hardly made any FedEx points this year.  So to pick up what I've picked up was a hundred fold from where I've been.   
 Q.  And off to Wyndham now?  
STUART APPLEBY: Yes, Wyndham.  Wyndham, I need, look -- my goal is to lock myself in at the end of Wyndham inside of 200 so I can get into the Web playoffs.  That's where I was last year, unfortunately.   
But it's been a tough year.  And I haven't managed to get my head around playing well for four days.  I really even barely have my body going well to play for four days.   
Been frustrating.  Hopefully this is something to run me in, for the next few, where I feel like I'm hitting and putting good.  I just have to understand that I have a lot of experience in these situations and I need to use it.  Good experience versus so much of the stuff I've had recently and go on.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT