WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 25, 2004
Stuart Appleby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT










JOEL SCHUCHMANN:   Stuart Appleby, thank you for joining us, 5-4 victory this morning.  Just talk about the day.  Obviously a good one for you. 

STUART APPLEBY: Match calling was pretty good.  Justin started off basically two halves on the first two holes with pars.  I lost the par 5, 2, to one of his pars.  I basically didn't make any real mistakes.  I made pars all day.  I think I finished 4-under for the day.  I just chipped away and I basically got back to plus 1 or 1 up for nine holes after the ninth and birdied -- made about a 30-yard foot putt on 10 to go 2. 

Made birdie on the next par 5 for 2, two-putted from nearly 30 feet to go to 3 up.  We halved the next one, 12.  Won the 13th with Justin hitting it right in the water.  Made a 4 there, so it put me 4 up.  Then I birdied the next to go 5 and 4.  Didn't make many mistakes. 

Justin hit it in the water, in the creek, on 9 and hit it in the water on 13, so those two blemishes there gave me two -- obviously two easy wins, but early on in the match he made two really critical putts to make it look like the day was going to be pretty long if he was going to keep that sort of stuff up.

JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Real quickly, if you could talk about the last six months or so, winning in Las Vegas, winning at the Mercedes Championship, you really stepped your game up and moved into the top 20 in the World Ranking.  Talk about your success the last six months. 

STUART APPLEBY:  I guess all of it started in Pennsylvania last year.  I had a really good tournament there and finished tied second.  Then a fine week at the AmEx, had tied second there, as well, and finally got one through, won one in Vegas in a playoff with Scotty McCarron. 

Didn't do much at the Presidents Cup, didn't do much in Australia at the end of the season.  Maybe I was a little tired and fatigued after all those tournaments, playing that quality, that level of golf.  It is easy when you're playing well, it just sort of happens, but at the same time it just chips away at your stress. 

I practiced pretty well over Christmas for the brief break I had.  And Kapalua just felt good, and the swing felt nice and smooth and the ball started rolling awesome, made a bunch of putts, and that's really where I want to be, trying to grab at the latter part of the Tour season last year and take that straight to 2004, those ideas. 

I would have liked to play probably better during The Presidents Cup than I did.  I would have liked to have kept that form I had prior right through that, but again, a different format, different feeling.  But I'm playing well.  I like the way I'm playing.  I'm hitting more fairways and more greens.  I think I led the stats in greens last week, which is something I've never done before.  My goal today was to try to hit a lot of greens.  You hit greens, you create opportunities.


Q.  Given the shortness of the match, can you really judge how your game was today?

STUART APPLEBY:  No, it wasn't really -- I wouldn't call it a short match.  It finished 5-4, but I won those holes very late in the day.  So most of the day, looking at it really, the first ten holes were really pretty much neck and neck, only 2 up after 10.  Then all of a sudden, a handful of holes later, it's over all of a sudden.  It wasn't like I was building my lead.  I was actually 1 down for a few holes. 

I really got the lead really late, so there was a lot of tension going into the round.  With Justin ahead the first ten holes, there was only a hole or two in it, then like I say, three or four holes later it was all over.  It wasn't an easy match until that last half an hour of the day.  It became easy when I knew we were running out of holes and I was gaining the lead running out of holes.


Q.  Is there a little sense of relief?  Nobody ever likes to come here and play here one day. 

STUART APPLEBY:  Oh, no doubt.  I haven't had much success here.  You run into match play formats.  You can play ordinary and win a match, and that's the weirdness of it.  That's why a match play is always a better teller of a guy against the guy.  It has the format of being a match play but also being a stroke play content. 

Playing at Match Play at Wentworth years ago and I played Lee Westwood and I shot a score comfortable enough to beat every player in the field, and I got absolutely piped.  Lee Westwood absolutely wiped me out, hit five shots lower than me for 36 holes.  There will be guys that will win matches with 2-over, 3-over.  It's that sort of scrappy -- you've sort of -- you're playing against a guy, but you're still doing your own thing and only proportionally or occasionally can you look at what they're doing and adjust your game for anything they're going to do.


Q.  Is it tough to walk through the locker room and through the hotel after you lose?

STUART APPLEBY:  I guess one of the weirdest things is how do you book your flight if you're going to lose.  I rang the PGA TOUR and I said, What do I do?  Do I book it first round loss?  And she said okay.  So I booked it that I'm flying out Wednesday night.  So I said, Book me a flight back to Orlando Wednesday night.  She said it's always easier to take your flight away than trying to bring it forward.  It's negative, but I thought, well, I'd rather call her up and say, book me another day, book me Thursday.


Q.  Does that mean you're going to book it on Thursday? 

STUART APPLEBY:  I'm going to call every day and say Book me out, book me out until Sunday night.  Hopefully we can get everything done until Sunday night.


Q.  That's the call you want to make, right?

STUART APPLEBY:  Hopefully all the girls there will be sitting there waiting for my call.


Q.  The things you've been through in your life, over is not the right word, but do you think you're ready to reassume your career?

STUART APPLEBY:  I think that I'm not getting any younger and I'm trying to get wiser, trying to get a bit of perspective of life and friends, family, and certainly my personal life and where my golf career fits.  You know, I think -- time ticks by and you get  -- you hear about kids dying of disease and dying of cancer before their fifth birthday.  A friend of mine had a heart attack in the middle of his life, and one of the nicest guys you would ever meet, and there's no real reason for all this.  You never know. 

So I think really my perspective is to really enjoy myself, enjoy my time with my friends and my family.  Golf is a very important thing to me, but I think I'm more relaxed about it.  If things aren't going my way, I know that it's not going to be as frustrating to turn that around as it was previously.  And to that context, some of that came from my personal life, having the will and desire that things will sort themselves out, as much as I can do the same on the golf course.  So I guess I'm much more at peace and relaxed about my professional and personal life.


Q.  Your experiences might have enabled you to reach that level?

STUART APPLEBY:  I think so, yes, very much so.  I think golf teaches you a lot of things about yourself.  I think yourself gets portrayed a lot in your golf game.  I think golf is a great portrayer of a personality and a competitive spirit and a test, and it shows how it comes with adversity and how they look at things and how they interpret things.  Also just it's an endless loop question.  Your life teaches you to be better at golf, too, and vice versa.


Q.  You played better in Pennsylvania last year.  Had you made any changes that kind of sparked that?

STUART APPLEBY:  I've been asked this question a lot, and I reckon I've been in my game.  I was trying to be more precise with my shot-making, making sure I could hit any shot at any time.  I could hit any highs, lows, fades, draws, whatever.  I really had to test it.  I had to get my body to respond to what I was asking, and I did some -- that always seemed -- mental work, you need to mix physical and mental together a lot of times to get the results you know you can have, and the difference between a Top 10 and a win sometimes is a couple of chips, might be a couple putts. 

Last week for me I just needed to make more putts and then I had the tournament.  That's the way it goes.  If I didn't do that, move on to the next week.  So that was really -- shooting my game to a more intense level of commitment there and obviously in doing some mental work about where I am, what I want to do, and intensifying that a bit.


Q.  One of your first years at Augusta I recall Johnny Miller being impressed with your game and he picked you as a guy who had the talent to win Augusta one of these years.  Do you feel your game is now at that level?

STUART APPLEBY:  I haven't played Augusta -- I haven't played well there.  My first year was my best year.  I had a top 20.  I think top 24 gets you back in next year, and I shot something like that.  So I would like to have a record -- I have a record there.  I'm trying to remember what the record was.  I have the most pars or better in a row there of breaking -- I had 50-some holes with par or better, so I know I can sustain good quality golf, but that wasn't enough.  So I've got to mix my game, my feeling about my game there, mixed with what I've done there to get that going for 72 holes.  I feel like my career is not -- it would be nice being the first Australian to win that.


Q.  Looking at how you won, 4 and 3, was there a turning point in the match when you said you felt it going your way?

STUART APPLEBY:  Just when I  birdied the long putt on 10, made a 30-footer on 10.  I was in the right first cut rough and knocked it out, had about 110 yards to the hole, probably hit it 10 yards low and had a tricky downhill -- both of us had birdie chances.  He definitely had a better chance, and I made mine and he missed his.  So I went to two there. 

And then I knocked it on the green in two on the par 5 for a birdie there.  Really that little round of -- I won 9, 10 -- yeah, he holed out on me on 8, on the par 5.  He went and made a bonger and then I missed mine.  Then I birdied -- then I won 9, 10, 11. 


Q.  Stuart, I think at Mercedes after your win you talked about trying to be more consistent during the year.  You have events under your belt now.  It's almost been two months.  Do you feel like you're gaining or have achieved that, or if you have, where do you feel you are in that process?

STUART APPLEBY:  You're constantly improving and you look at where Tiger is.  No matter how great he plays, he will look for more, and I was talking to a track and field athlete the other day, and he was saying ultimately in the 100-meter sprint, I can't think of his name -- he's run under 10 seconds, and this guy has said his goal is to run 0.00.  That's as quick as you can possibly run, nothing.  So there's no concept of what's fast because ask the question, what's real quick.  He said, look, you could be running nine seconds in the next 20 or 30 years.  Who knows?  So don't set a goal.  So don't look at beating Tiger who's No. 1 in the world where he can't go any higher but he can make the gap bigger. 

For me, I've got a lot of gap closing to make on where I feel I can take my game because constantly you are the driver of your -- what you feel is right and wrong, what you feel needs improvement, what I feel -- if you can say every shot today I gave it ten out of ten and got ten out of ten results, that's a perfect round of golf.  That doesn't happen.  You might have some tens, some eights, sevens, sixes.  You're constantly chasing your tail, and as you chase it you get smarter and smarter and this is where you get to the level where you're moving up and up and up and decreasing areas that really show weakness.


Q.  How do victories or wins move you up that ladder in your own mind?

STUART APPLEBY:  It shows you that what you're doing is right.  It's as simple as that.  Know that if I'm beating 100 plus guys, 50 guys in the wins that you're doing, you're doing everything added up together better than everybody else.  So it proves -- that doesn't mean -- last week I hit a lot of greens.  I'm traditionally not a top green hitter.  I'm always a good chipper and putter and my putting wasn't what I needed.  Mechanically it doesn't feel quite right and you're not quite comfortable, then you'll lip out instead of lipping in.  Those are the things you work on.  That's the difference.  It comes down to half a shot, half a lip in, 260 or 280 shots every tournament.  It doesn't look like it was going to come down to 1 and 2 last week and it did.  You get across that line in a tenth of a second, and a thousandth of a second makes a difference at this level.


Q.  Your philosophy then seems to be:  Play the game and victories will take care of themselves?

STUART APPLEBY:  Certainly in stroke play if you control what you're doing and approach your game and demand that you feel your game is letting you have it at that particular time and play smart and put your nose down into it and get going and that finishes you tenth that week, that's it.  Go out and work on that.  If it gets you in front by ten shots and you win, that's great. 

There's portions of stroke play that come down to match play.  The last handful of holes last week would have made a neat match play between Shigeki and Weirsie.  You're the controller of your own destiny and everybody else mixes their patch into it and it fits where it fits.  At Mercedes from Day 1 to Day 4 that's all I focused on and I was going to run my own race and see where I finished from there. 

JOEL SCHUCHMANN:   Stuart Appleby, thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT