MERCEDES CHAMPIONSHIPS
January 9, 2004
Stuart Appleby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  We'd like to welcome Stuart Appleby into the interview room.  Stuart, 67 today and 13 under par for the tournament  and just one shot out of the lead.  Sort of an up and around day today, but  you kept it off with the birdie on 18, which is big. 

STUART APPLEBY:  Yeah, the wind was playing pretty much the same as yesterday, a little stronger, certainly a lot more of a concern to club selection.  There were some birdies to be had out there. 

But I played pretty well all day.  Liked the way I hit it, liked the way I putted it.  Yeah, the course was similar. 

So I guess the two days were very similar. 

THE MODERATOR:  Got the round going at No. 6, five straight birdies.  Can you go through your birdies for us real quick. 

STUART APPLEBY:  If you look at the first, I got off to a good par there.  That was playing pretty difficult.  Compared to yesterday, I was really lucky, (inaudible) today as well. 

Good up and down on 2.  Made -- sorry, made a bogey on two, par 3.  Missed about a 12-footer for par. 

Birdied the 3rd from about eight feet. 

Good 2-putt on 4th from long range, really difficult to putt from long range in these greens. 

The next par 5, 3-putted that, unfortunately, for par after hitting a pretty good shot into the green.  So a bit of a glitch there. 

Then birdied 6, up and down for maybe three feet. 

7, I made about a 25-foot putt there. 

Birdie on 8 from about eight feet. 

On 9, 2-putted from the range of around 30, 35 feet. 

On 10, made a good putt there, probably around the 12-foot mark. 

11, good 2-putt from long range. 

Bogeyed 12 after hitting a good drive.  Bad selection of club on 12.  Not a great chip.  Thought I hit a pretty good putt.  Misread it. 

Came back on a birdie to the next to about two feet on 13. 

Dropped a shot on 14.  Hit my drive into the grass right, then hit a second shot, really good drive, spun off the green, chipped up, made probably about a six-foot mark there for a good bogey. 

Birdied the next from two feet. 

Pars, pars, good birdie from about 12 feet on 18. 

THE MODERATOR:  Questions. 


Q.  How hard is it to hit the second drive on 14?

STUART APPLEBY:  Not easy.  Not easy, too.  I think that's where you really have to move the ball left to right.  I felt like I had to move it left to right.  I did it yesterday. 

So, no, not easy, but you just got to suck it up, commit, do your shot, hit your shot.  I mean, I hit a really good second shot.  Only needed foot more, I think I was on the green, with inside 15 foot. 

Dropping a shot there was not what you want to do.  But I guess what I did was stripe with another good drive.  I guess I made another birdie for the day. It didn't land up on the curb. 


Q.  You make bogey on 14, for a lot of guys, they're kicking themselves. 

STUART APPLEBY:  I made a good bogey, I guess, in the end.  I hit a poor first shot.  Every other shot was perfect.  You know, that's golf.  That's how it goes.


Q.  You led Vijay by five at the turn, played the Back 9 in 2-under, yet you're still behind.  Did that shock you?

STUART APPLEBY:  No, not at all.  No, I didn't even look at the leaderboard today.  Wasn't really a concern what I was doing in relation, because there's no necessity to do any of that right now to see what's going on to. 

Vijay got on a good streak.  I know what that's like.  I was on that yesterday.  I had another one today.  So, it doesn't surprise me.  You can hit a lot of greens out here because the greens are pretty big.  The greens aren't really running because the ball is stopping pretty easy, unless it's straight downhill on the greens.  You just get on a putting roll.  He was on that.  That's how it works.  He's the type of player that can do that.


Q.  Is that the ultimate putting contest this week?

STUART APPLEBY:  There's a lot of good hitting involved, yeah.  A lot of good club selection, good ball control, definitely.  It's not just putting.  But ultimately the putter's the club that really puts the score on the card. 


Q.  We reached a stretch with Tiger where at some point over the weekend, you expect to see his name up there.  Is that where we are with Vijay right now, considering what happened the last half of last year? 

STUART APPLEBY:  Oh, yeah, the last half of last year, he played just outstanding golf.  I think that there's no real reason why he couldn't continue that type of golf, although you're going to have hot patches and warm patches and cool patches, and every player goes through that at a particular time. 

But certainly Vijay puts a lot of work into his game, all parts.  Obviously now he's been working on his health the last few years, he's obviously seeing some benefits.  He set some pretty lofty targets last year and achieved them.  So I guess he's got the feeling of, "What I want I can get."  That's a good thing, and that's I guess we've been learning a lot off of guys like Tiger, as well.


Q.  We always talk about his work ethic which he's had for 20 plus years. 

STUART APPLEBY:  Forever. 


Q.  Do you think his play is a result of finally after all these years grooving his swing or the fact, as you mentioned, he really took fitness to a new level a couple years ago and that made a difference?

STUART APPLEBY:  Good question.  I think Vijay is a very natural athlete, very flexible, very powerful.  He's just very much like that.  You can see that in his, you know, in his swing.  So he certainly doesn't have to go out and lose a pile of weight or go crazy in the gym just to try to get some flexibility back.  He's always been a very smooth swinger. 

I think Vijay is the type of guy, when he commits to something, he goes for it.  You can see that in his work ethic from the day I joined the tour to now.  He's the hardest worker out here. 

But I just don't think there's any definitive thing that's really changed Vijay  because Vijay has been a great player for a long time.  This is nothing surprising really.


Q.  How do you think the fitness has helped him?

STUART APPLEBY:  I think fitness for everybody is the concentration in the last sort of part of the day.  I think that's the fatigue part.  Vijay might have lost a bit of weight.  I don't know if he's doing cardio.  I can't really speak on that.  I just think what working out gives you is gives you a feeling, you know, more energy, gives you (inaudible) confidence.


Q.  Are you saying I should try that?

STUART APPLEBY:  Maybe (smiling). 


Q.  At the start of the day, if you had been offered to finish the day one shot from the lead, would you have said, "I'll take that"?  Are you a little disappointed? 

STUART APPLEBY:  What if I shot 10-under and I was one shot from the lead, I'd be taking 10-under.  I'm not too concerned.  I shot a good round today.  I played pretty good golf for 9/10ths of the day.  Doesn't really matter.  The checks aren't handed out in the second round.  The crystal is not in your cabinet till the end of the day, so I'm not really too worried about it.


Q.  There's a considerable gap between fifth place, Scott Hoch at 7-under, and Vijay at 14.  That's seven shots.  There's a lot of guys that probably aren't in this tournament anymore after just two rounds.  How do you approach going into tomorrow and how do you approach if you play as well as you played the first two rounds, then the likelihood that Vijay, historically he's played so well, how do you approach the next round?

STUART APPLEBY:  Absolutely the same as Vijay approached today.  Just went out, he played his own game.  That's what I did.  That's what we're both doing tomorrow.  There won't be anything but single-mindedness to be focusing on what we do and what we do well.  That's it. 


Q.  Vijay spoke a little bit about the toughness of the wind early in the day, the benefit of playing a little bit later in the day, the wind dying down a bit.  Did you feel that? 

STUART APPLEBY:  I don't know about what Vijay is saying about how tough it was.  It can't have been that hard.  "It's tough.  I made seven birdies in a row." 

What, did he finish with a pile of birdies at the end of the day? 


Q.  Seven in a row. 

STUART APPLEBY:  I guess that was his secret.  But, I don't know.  I don't know.  I can't really say.  I think the breeze was definitely a little softer at the end.  You could see the whitecaps out in the ocean were really a lot less at the end, I'm guessing the last hour of the day, than it was pretty much in the body of the round. 

But, gee, Vijay made seven birdies, that's got to take at least an hour and a half to do that, doesn't it?  I think he still had some tough holes in there with that breeze. 


Q.  On 17, you seemed to be having a few problems reading that green because of the sun. 

STUART APPLEBY:  Yeah, the sun -- when the sun sets really light and you're still playing, and I guess the amount of grass and grain on these greens, it changes the color of the grass a bit.  It makes it a lot harder to read what's happening on the ground.  That is very difficult.  On 18 with the score board being in the way, when I looked up to chip, I literally had the sun blaring in my eyes.  All I could see was a black shadow.  I had no depth perception at all.  It's tricky.  It throws all the continuity of where actually is the ground, where is the break?  It is difficult.  Certainly on smoother bent like greens, it's a little bit easier. 

THE MODERATOR:  Stuart, thanks for coming by. 



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT