WGC AMERICAN EXPRESS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 5, 2003
Stuart Appleby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
STUART APPLEBY:  It was more like the round the other day.  I'm not sure my stats show that, stat-wise, but I had it a little bit better the other day in more trying conditions.  It was a lot easier today, a lot less distractions to screw you up.  It was really two good rounds this week where I played really, really well.


Q.  You're taking home thousands and thousands of dollars today with that round, nice finish to the World Golf Championship event.  How does it feel?

STUART APPLEBY:  Good.  It was sort of a goal to finish in the top 30.  I really set a goal to get into that.  I just missed it last year.  Kenny Perry pushed me out.  Kenny has had a good year this year, so I wanted to make sure I was strong at the end of the year. 

A lot of players are tied and I was honestly feeling a lit bit worried, but the motivation to try and get into that event was huge.  I did a lot of work on my game in all respects to just make sure I could compete again back where you have before.


Q.  Did you ever feel like you had a chance to take the lead?

STUART APPLEBY:  I never looked at a score board once.  You don't ever plan on Tiger coming back, so you just stick your head down and go.  If I would have putted a little bit better today would have been fantastic, a great round of golf.  It was a real good round of golf, but it was close to a great one.


Q.  Is he the one player where if he starts out 8-under he's not going to --

STUART APPLEBY:  You really try and ignore that and just do your own thing.  There's nothing you can do about it.  If he's going to run away with it, that's his choice, and if he's not, that's his choice.  It's your choice to decide what you do, and that's about it.  That's all you can control and that's the beauty of golf.


Q.  Second or third or whatever, how do you feel about that?

STUART APPLEBY:  I'm happy with that.  I wanted to get a good final round to capitalize on the good stuff that I've been showing through the week.


Q.  What does this do for the Player of the Year race for Tiger?

STUART APPLEBY:  I think it will wrap it up.  I don't know.  How are you going to beat him from here?  It would have to be a strong finish for contenders coming home the next couple of weeks, but it's a World event, so it's big points, a big event.  I think he's a shoe-in.


Q.  The World Cup situation, you're going to do World Cup and you're going to do Presidents Cup? 

STUART APPLEBY:  Yep.


Q.  Jim Furyk says he's going to do the same thing.  How many of you are there that are going to do that?

STUART APPLEBY:  I don't think there's many.  I haven't missed a world event yet, I don't believe, since they started this.  I think I'm the only player, although I tell a slight white lie.  I didn't play the World Cup last year.  I played all the other normal four-round single events.  I don't think there's many guys doing the double dip.  We've got a few events.  We've got to go back to Australia, and we're pretty busy until Santa Claus comes down the chimney the 21st of December.  We'll be tied up until then.



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT