84 LUMBER CLASSIC OF PENNSYLVANIA
September 21, 2003
Stuart Appleby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
STUART APPLEBY:  Making birdies, just to be able to continue that on  -- and you could see that by the result.  So for me, it was really trying to get something  -- well, not get something, but keep something going from the first 18 holes, and certainly get a foot down to the floor on the back nine.  I had some opportunities:  Birdie 10; I missed a good chance at 11;  12, I missed a good chance at 12. 

And 13, I bogeyed out of the middle of the fairway, really just a lob-wedge, and that put a real kick  in; that one took a lot of wind out of me.  Just for the few minutes that hole happened, you just kind of  -- everybody is making birdies, and considering I missed two good chances before and dropping that shot on 13, the smarter thing to do is really stick with the game and stay in it.  I birdied 14, 15 and 16, and have a really good, shot coming into the hole from about 30-odd feet and I had a good chance on 18 and missed it there. 

On the whole, there was really no letting up.  You just have to be totally focused.  From that position, 15-under for the two rounds today, that actually would have put me tied.  So pretty good guess on mine and I got close.

Q.  Inaudible?

STUART APPLEBY:   Well it's fun to make birdies, no doubt about it, and you want to make the game of making birdies fun and you want to make the game even if you're not making birdies fun.  It's a bit of a catch 22:  If you're making them, that's good, but if everyone is making them as well, you have to really keep on the job.  It's certainly not like a U.S. Open type format when you're making birdies and you don't really  -- not actually looking at the leaderboard, you need to stick at it and keep your nose to the grindstone and get yourself to the clubhouse.  Whereas in that format, par is your friend and here birdie is your friend.  If you sit around for three or four holes and make pars, you are going to get passed. 


Q.  Did you feel there was a 62 out there?

STUART APPLEBY:   I think it was in the cards, that it could be possible.  J.L. did it, and if someone is going to win, 62 will put you in the Top-10 at the worst, a 62, final round, it can certainly win it.  The course was there to be had, very little wind, no run, fairways extremely wide.  And greens very receptive.  It really was.  It wasn't going to be four or five guys doing it this week, but it was definitely a week where someone could have done it. 


Q.  How many shots difference on the course if it was firmer? 

STUART APPLEBY:   Dry is good for the fairways, and some holes it obviously gives you more run, but then the greens become firmer.  If the greens were firm then they become a little trickier and faster.  So, a bit of a catch.  The fairways are extremely wide this week, probably the widest we've had on TOUR and we've had extremely soft  -- you have to be careful, difficult to miss the fairway.  Highest fairways-hit-per-average for the year and greens.  Even though it had no run, it was very short.  But as far as I know, the changes will be made next year and the course will be pulled up another level. 

But to answer your question about the firmness, I know it's been pretty wet.  So I don't know how this course plays dry.  I don't know if it does play dry that often. 


Q.  Would you say that this was a good tournament, good event, favorable reaction  from the players?

STUART APPLEBY:   I guess slightly rushed this year because we had a tent for a clubhouse, but I think all of that is going to be changing in the next six months.  They will be working around the clock to put together, what I saw, an amazing clubhouse and some changes to the course.  It will be a bigger and better tournament next year, by far, probably the most improved I would say out of any of the tournaments on the schedule.  And it sounds like they are going to step it up a notch year and pick it up to where  Mr.  Hardy wants it. 


Q.  Inaudible?

STUART APPLEBY:   That's a good question.  I think having a property there, Nemacolin was a great place, what a great place to stay.  Beautiful, great facility, and only a couple of minutes down the road.  Very handy with the rain delay, because obviously we had the whole day to sit around, and it's slightly remote.  So I guess traveling to the mall is not right next door or anything like that.  It was more of a plus because we had a really nice place to hang out and watch the rain and wind blow.  But we managed to get back to what we were supposed to be doing, and that's get the full four days in. 


Q.  Inaudible?

STUART APPLEBY:   Sounds like they were going to keep all of the players pretty ready to come back next year, yeah.



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT