THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 1, 2014
Stuart Appleby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Chip‑in at the 9th and that's all you needed. 
STUART APPLEBY:   Yeah, I had some good opportunities.   I think I'm putting pretty well, which I really struggled for quite a while in my attitude at putting, so I really tried to take it easy on myself this week. 
My mind‑ seems to be coming to be nice.   Had a nice back ten holes, I think I had 4‑under on the back ten holes yesterday.   When you feel like the green or the read in the green is coming to you and you start making a couple, it feels nice.   I'm hitting the ball, swinging it pretty good most of the time. 
The course is a good test.   We have probably had the greens as slow and as soft as we've seen them for years and it still is difficult.   5‑under is a really good score under conditions with greens that are quite receptive and not that quick.

Q.   You got off to a hot start and the back nine seemed a bit more challenging, just the playability, and we see other players in the afternoon with shots starts, where can they expect to make that turn? 
STUART APPLEBY:   The greens are in great shape.   Obviously a cut being made, you're going to see greens with no spike marks, not that they were bad the first to days. 
Talking about the guys now that are well and truly into their round that have probably had four days or three days of good golf and I've only sort of managed to squeeze half the tournament a bit here and half was good.   I think they will find, maybe have some similar feelings to me.   You obviously have some see holes you want 20 get some good shots in, certainly 16 and 17, or 15 and 16 and 17, there's they are not the flags that you can knock it to ten feet because if you're ten feet out, you're not even putting. 
So if you hit anything inside ten feet‑‑ I hit a great shot into 17 to 15 and that feels almost like cupping it.   And the breeze is strange, we had maybe three different winds in ten holes, blowing at least ten‑mile‑an‑hour.   I don't know if it's trying to settle in or what the guys will see but we certainly saw changes out there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT