THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT
June 3, 1999
Stuart Appleby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








STUART APPLEBY:  I think Justin and I actually didn't play fantastic today. I didn't hit the ball that great; conditions weren't great, but I had 3-under and just hung in there and had three birdies in a row. Did I have three birdies in a row?  Yeah, 7, 8, 9.  Then made eagle on 11 with a sand wedge, you know, that obviously put me 5-under for the day. Then I screwed up 13. But, yeah, it was -- it was nice to have 3-under and not really feel like I did anything fantastic.


Q.  What happened on 13?

STUART APPLEBY:  13, I hit a good drive, thought I had a good second shot, got caught up in the trap, missed it by about 4 or 5 feet.

Q.  Do you normally have to do something fantastic  to be near the lead here?

STUART APPLEBY:  No.  I mean I certainly hope not. Otherwise, I'm in big trouble. But I don't. I mean  -- I suppose when you're playing well, scores can come easier than when you're pushing it. You know, when you try to push yourself hard and you're struggling to shoot anything near par and pressure gets to you and that. But when you're playing well, you just have to go out and relax and c'est la vie. Just try and make four or five birdies a round if you can, even three or four birdies.  Usually you're not making too many bogeys, so you average one or two a day and over a year it adds up.  Today was one of those days. The eagle made a nice, fat difference. But then again I had a double, and I haven't made any doubles in the last month.

Q.  How long was the wedge shot, Stuart?

STUART APPLEBY:  About 93 yards I think I had.  You're not going to ask me to see you outside, are you?  I bet you he will. (Laughing.)

STUART APPLEBY:  You're late, you're dismissed.

STUART APPLEBY:  7 was 4 for birdie. Playing downwind, easy off the tee.  8 was, again, playing downwind.  7-iron 25 feet, made that.  9 was a wedge to about 8 feet. Again, a birdie.  11 was, obviously, a 3-wood, 3-iron, sand wedge in.  And then birdie on 17 was about -- I hit a 9-iron in there about 8 feet for birdie.

STUART APPLEBY:  Yeah, good up-and-down.

STUART APPLEBY:  Little kid in the corner, what do you have to say?  P.J., you got a question to ask me?  Sure?

Q.  He's doing art.

STUART APPLEBY:  Going, going?


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT