HUMANA CHALLENGE IN PARTNERSHIP WITH THE CLINTON FOUNDATION
January 16, 2014
Stuart Appleby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Great round of golf.   Solid start here.   But tell me about that shot ‑‑ we talked when we were walking in ‑‑ but I saw that lie, I liked the angle, but the lie was so severe you had to take the drop.   But by taking that drop, you get in that fluffier lie to hit it over the trees.   
STUART APPLEBY:   Yeah, it wasn't a good drive, I certainly thought, I'm going to get a drop off the cart path, that will help me.   And it didn't really help me.   I got more than fortunate.   There was everything that could go wrong, I had water left, I had no pin to work with, and I clipped a branch as it went up 30, 40 yards in front of me, and managed to stop to maybe 10 or 12 feet.   And misread the putt.   
But it's, but the score's obviously are low out here.   You're playing almost a stadium, it's pretty quiet, not much breeze.   You do have to get the green reading right.   The mountains do tend to make a difference in the pace, if you're going into the mountain or extra break or less break.   As amateurs today our groups, our poor amateurs didn't really help us much on the card, but Scott played great, he dragged us along nicely, he played great.   We only had two hiccups at the end of 18 and 9 where he dropped shots.   But we're doing the right things.   
   
 Q.   That's what I wanted to say, because the round of golf, even though maybe the round wasn't as low as you wanted to, it was more about the misses and makes.   You had a lot of opportunities today.   Hit some good putts that just went over the edge.   
STUART APPLEBY:   You know, you can even look at this and say well, if I'm not putting any good you're just going to get run over in this golf tournament, but at the same time making birdies is‑‑ it gives you some confidence.   Sometimes, yeah, everyone else is making them, but it's just nice to write down a birdie on the card.   And last year I was making very few birdies as probably you saw.   I was averaging only a couple a day.   And that's just not going to get it done.   So you've got ‑‑ there's two more courses we're going to play ‑‑ you do need to keep your wits about you, some of these pins are actually quite tight.   Some of these amateurs have got some really dicey pins to get to.   But scoring is low.   So you got to build some momentum and then turn around and come back here on Sunday.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT