RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 26, 2012
Stuart Appleby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Stuart, back against the wall.   Very nicely played today.  
STUART APPLEBY:   Yeah.   The course was a bit different.   We were starting to see it dry out yesterday in the Pro Am.   We had similar breeze, somewhat similar.   Certainly had to approach our tee shots in a different manner.   Drivers were now 3‑woods and sometimes 3‑woods were drivers.   But less bounce.   
Yeah, I didn't quite start and I just sort of chipped away at some birdies.   The course is not that easy.   I hear we might get some storms this afternoon, but happy the way it all came together.   Just need to sort of keep playing like that.   It sounds a bit boring, but that's sort of what you gotta keep doing, particularly for maybe 50 guys like me or 100 guys like me this late in the season.  
   
 Q.   Boring 65s are good.  
STUART APPLEBY:   Yeah, absolutely.   I'd like to be making a 65 look easy all the time.   But like I said, there's a lot of guys in the camp that we need to get some FedEx points quickly and it's time to get hustling.  
   
 Q.   Ball‑in‑hand make a lot of difference or much difference for you guys this morning?  
STUART APPLEBY:   One particular hole I thought it might and I didn't hit the shot I was hoping.   I teed it off on a divot to hit a 3‑wood.   That didn't really help me.  
Not really.   I had one mud ball on the first hole of the day that was in the first cut so I couldn't clean it.   I don't quite know why we played the rule.   I'd rather see us place it straight back to where it is, clean it and place it right back.   If it's in a divot, you place it back.   I'm not quite sure why we didn't have club length, but I will take lift, clean, place as much as we can.  
   
 Q.   Rules officials will discuss it another time.   But very well played.   A couple years ago when you went to Greenbrier you were in the same kind of situation and you fought your way through it and you ended up playing Bridgestone and the PGA and a whole lot of tournaments after that.  
STUART APPLEBY:   Yeah, that's true.   That was two years ago this August, early August.   So yeah, almost to the week, I guess.   I can't believe two years has gone.   Absolutely.   You don't want to be in a situation like that.   I'd love to ‑‑ I don't think there are any 59s on the card around this golf course.   But again, it is a good quality golf course.   You're going to have to play proper golf.   We're going to see some better weather on the weekend.   
We'll see.   The crowds are fantastic.   You get more crowds in the Pro Am than you do see on TOUR events.   So well done to Canada.  
   
 Q.   A course not unlike Greenbrier, though.   You gotta place the ball.  
STUART APPLEBY:   Yeah, generally.   The greens, probably similar speed.   The topography of this course is a lot hillier, a lot more demanding I think on the tee shots.   The golf course now at Greenbrier is a lot more demanding than it was when I shot it.   That's no one will ever beat 59.   
But it's great.   Obviously we've turned out a great event.   We have a great spread of food in the clubhouse, the people, the transportation, the vehicles we're driving, they've really done a great job.  
   
 Q.   Go enjoy some of that lunch.  
STUART APPLEBY:   Will do.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT