BARRACUDA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 5, 2017
Stuart Appleby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Big birdie there on the last hole to cap off an 8-point day and also to get into the final group tomorrow, which I think is important to you.
STUART APPLEBY: Yeah, well, it's been a long time since I've had to deal with anything resembling contention.  I've been out here 20 years, but you can really struggle to find form.  But today was a bit of a struggle.  I got some -- I tried to do a lot of talking to myself.  Like come on, you've got to be patient, all those sort of things, just to free it up.  And it wasn't easy.  The greens were tricky to read at times.  But look, this format lends itself to someone to have -- if the weather is not too bad, six, seven, eight birdies, you can do them if you've got your eye on them, and someone can come from nowhere.  I've still got to keep the foot down.  I've still got to think, 10 points has got to be somewhere where I've got to get.  I've got to just be focused tomorrow on what I've got to do and do a lot of talking because it's been a long time since I've played being in contention, so it'll be interesting.
Q. Greg Owen has been out here a long time.  He's got a five-point lead.  Talk about what it'll take to catch him tomorrow.
STUART APPLEBY: Well, look, Richy pulled off great, straight out, bang-bang birdies, and I think he was six or seven points up on me in no time, and then I ended up clawing back.  Not that that was my plan, but that's just how the game can work.  If you can get a string of -- you're better off making six birdies and four bogeys.  It's not going to do any good at the top end of the field than just having pars and pars.  Pars and pars people are passing you, but if you can throw in a couple quick birdies and even a bogey, you're okay.  He has an opportunity, he's playing obviously well, where he can really get moving on a score.
I think any of us have got to be thinking we've got to find 10 points minimum, and that's just me.  And it's out there.  That's only a clean part of 5-under, which is very doable.  I'm maybe not long enough for eagles out here, so no big surprises on the points scale there, but it'll be interesting.  I know I'm very appreciative that I'm in this position and playing such a beautiful place.  It's really nice here, one of my favorite tournaments.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT