THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 3, 2011
Stuart Appleby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You go out there, you make three birdies, you make just the one lone bogey, would you have thought that teeing off the with conditions, with the 25-mile-an-hour constant wind, just making one bogey out there? That's amazing to me?
 STUART APPLEBY: I guess maybe one of the secrets was I was not thinking about that too much. I knew it was pretty difficult. I have seen this course blow like this in this direction. Still doesn't make you feel comfortable. Very difficult to sort of get your lines on tee shots; one minute you're hitting driver, and the next day you're hitting hybrid off the tee, or less. 
 Putting was very difficult today. There was definitely some breeze pushing the ball, a lot of grain on the greens. But just -- it was tough. Played all right. I wouldn't call it brilliant, but I guess just consistent enough where I didn't get on the wrong side of dropping a shot every 30 minutes, which you easily could do, and even having huge sums out here wasn't hard with the amount of difficult water shots out there. 

 Q. You go through the Bear Trap and make two pars, but I think the shot of the day was the shot you hit on 17 after a long wait, having to watch the group in front of you go through what they went through, and you hit an absolutely perfect 3-iron to about five feet from the hole. 
 STUART APPLEBY: Yeah, 15 was difficult. I actually ran out of runway there. I not only hit a 3-iron out through the back, I was only probably half a step from dropping off. So lucky there and made a good par. 
 I had a pretty good swing on that one, and then same sort of shot again, a little longer, ten yards longer on the next. So I hit a really good 4-iron. So I had some long irons into the wind, sort of floating around my head, being very recent. So not an easy shot on 17. That was a bit rude back there. 
 But you know, that was -- that's a net-one for me. I don't think I would have got a shot on that hole I'm pretty sure.

 Q. PGA TOUR officials did a nice job, moved the markers up at 18 and jock he'd them around to give you guys an opportunity to score out here with these conditions?
 STUART APPLEBY: Mother Nature was probably the biggest obstacle in shooting 5- or 6-under par. The tees were back on 18, I think still need a fourth shot just to get home on the green. Pretty tough. 
 We had quite a bit of wind this morning and just a bit stronger this afternoon, and I think they are expecting it to just taper off a bit over the weekend. But this is South Florida this time of year. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT