PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 9, 2008
Stuart Appleby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You were 2-under through 12 today?  
 STUART APPLEBY: Yes.  
  
  Q. How tough is it to kind of have to stand around when you're playing so well like that?  
 STUART APPLEBY: I guess my -- I think if you're playing well you just got to continue that mentally. If you're not playing well you got to just say, let's stay fresh, let's forget what went wrong and reassess and say, you know what, I'm going to do this, I'm going to have a different strategy and then go and do that.   
 Obviously the leaders haven't teed up so they just take it as a waste of a day. But I just need to continue on thinking that the course will be a little bit more receptive now, so it should be easier. So I can try to potentially think of getting a little further under par tomorrow.   
  
  Q. You mentioned the course is going to be a little more receptive now?  
 STUART APPLEBY: Very much.   
  
  Q. How much different is it since Monday?  
 STUART APPLEBY: Not so much today, definitely the first two days, definitely the first day for sure the greens were more receptive.   
 The greens consistently were dried out. The top half was much, much dryer than the bottom half of the greens which were very, very soft. So it made it very difficult to get the ball on top.   
 If they could have got the greens more consistent, which probably meant a little bit more moisture on top, I think you could have had players getting more reward. It was very hard to get reward out of the greens the first two days.   
 Right now they will be back to almost where they were Tuesday and Wednesday.  
  
  Q. Do you change your approach going into tomorrow?  
 STUART APPLEBY: No, the same. Same. Just keep trucking. Yeah, just, you know, obviously I got to shoot some pretty good numbers coming in and then obviously tear up the course.   
 And if I can get back to something like even par that will be nice, but, no, the whole course is a lot easier, so I don't think you'll see scores slipping down any more, I think there will be somebody moving forward I think with the course now with that much water you're not going to see -- it's not going to be as tough.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT