BARRACUDA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 3, 2017
Stuart Appleby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 14 points, excellent start.  Can I get some comments on your round?
STUART APPLEBY: Yeah, got off to sort of a good, solid first, sort of first nine, obviously trying to set something up for the second nine.  The pins were in tight locations, the greens were certainly firmer than the practice round and that made it a little trickier, but we read the greens pretty well.  Rolled it nice.
Made some bonus putts, I guess you call it, outside 15 plus feet.  Missed a couple of short ones, but when you make eight birdies that's the goal for every day.  Six would be a minimum.  Drove well, felt I knew where the club was going in my swing.  That's something I haven't really felt for a long time, and I mean most of this year to be honest.
So, look, I just would like to sort of keep it in the middle of the club face, get my percentages right, you know, just see if I can make some putts for the rest of the week.
Q. Australians seem to be a little bit of go for broke, play aggressive style a bit.  Does this lend itself to your style?
STUART APPLEBY: I have only just started recently making birdies, like, and I mean making more than three birdies a around has been huge for me.  On average I can't even get close to that.  So I'll be making one and two.  Well, you can't go anywhere on the PGA TOUR or the Web tour making that many birdies.
I started making some around John Deere, you know, five, six a round, not every round, but I was getting the feeling of momentum because I couldn't hit it solid for 18 holes.  And certainly if I made the cut, which was rare, I couldn't play well, decent for 72 holes.  So do we go for broke?
We don't have any courses like this in Australia.  It resembles nothing like we're used to.  I don't know.  We've done all right.
So Greg did well last year, and I was talking to Greg the other day and he said effectively this was going to be his last PGA TOUR event.  He thought he could have come back here even if he didn't win.  He had a bit of a c'est la vie, is my French for you, attitude for the tournament.  And he ended up winning.
So but you need to shoot low.  And I really, I just want to get to the weekend and see what happens.  It's been a struggle to get to the weekend.  If I can get out play decent tomorrow and feel I can find the line and get some flow going, we'll see what happens.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT