AT&T NATIONAL
July 3, 2008
Stuart Appleby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Talk about the round today. 
 STUART APPLEBY: Played decent. The course was playing reasonably easy. Not easy as in, you'll make a pile of birdies, but it was in front of us. It was not a lot of birdies. Greens were receptive. Not too quick. Course is firming up so the ball was bouncing a little bit, but it's not getting any easier. That score, 3-under each day, would look really good.

 Q. What do you think the end result will be; maybe 6-under would win it? 
 STUART APPLEBY: It would be Mother Nature's call on that one. If it stays dry, you won't see under par scores as easy. And if it gets dry and a little faster on the greens that, will be tough.
 Last year the greens were not very smooth, so I think that was a bit of a factor, but this year, the course is just magnificent. 

 Q. What do you do, keeping yourself in contention --
 STUART APPLEBY: You either come into the tournament with something you know that works and you just keep working on that. That's sort of my story. I like the way I'm playing and I'm feeling comfortable out there. I've got some good stuff going on. That's what you do that. That's what the best player will do that week to win; will be the guy who manages to grasp his game, in all facets of the game. You really don't want to have any weakness and it will cost you in four days for sure. 
 I like the course like this. It's in front of you and you don't need to play a hundred practice rounds to get the feel for it. It's a good, old-style golf course, not overly long and we have some good holes being a par 70. If we play another ten courses like this -- this is a proper golf course. 

 Q. A lot of the fans are very knowledgeable about you and some of the better names; do you hear that around, any of the cheering? 
 STUART APPLEBY: I think you do. If you are playing well, you attract a couple more in the crowd. Depends on what part of the course you've on you'll grab more. Obviously a very big weekend and I think people will get out and enjoy it, and if we can keep storms away, it will be a great weekend. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT