THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY MORGAN STANLEY
May 31, 2008
Stuart Appleby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Would you say you mastered it today?  
 STUART APPLEBY: No, I got off to a really good first nine holes, which is the back nine. I had 5-under there. I just hit the ball really, really well, made some putts, some difficult putts. I did manage to sort of keep moving forward on the front nine and did finish 1-over on that nine. But, yeah, a good day. I think my game's been getting stronger through the week.  
  
  Q. The weather didn't hurt you at all?  
 STUART APPLEBY: No, I birdied 18 after the delay. But then I had bogeys on 1, 2, saved really good pars on 3 and 4. So that sort of steadied everything. And could have snuck in a couple more at the end, but it was a good day. A good day to be under par in these conditions.  
  
  Q. How was the restart? It seemed like there was times that you came out and went back in?  
 STUART APPLEBY: We came out and came in, went back out. And then they called us back in. And we just heard rumors; we never actually -- they never did tell us anything. So we never sort of got it from the horse's mouth. And that sort of left us guessing. It wasn't a big deal. But, yeah, the weather was moving pretty quick. So.  
  
  Q. There are different ways around this course. Seemed like we have seen another 68 today that was a bogey-free round. Obviously yours is a little different than that?  
 STUART APPLEBY: Yeah, the course, the greens are still very, very fast. Not as quick, but very fast. You still have to watch what you're doing. The fairways were a lot softer. So that made it a little bit easier to drive the ball if you were getting it near the rough. It would tend to dig in. So I don't know, we're going to probably get a little bit used to the wind going the same direction too. But there's a lot of tough shots out there. It's gusty and you could play a similar round tomorrow, but it's just when you hit, the timing, a gust of wind on putts that there was a few times out there today.   
 But if I could shoot another one of those tomorrow, that would be sort of really two sort of brilliant days.   
  
  Q. You're back to even now for you. Who's got a chance here, without getting too crazy?  
 STUART APPLEBY: No one's doing anything. It's just sitting around and no one can really get out front. The course won't let them, really. And there's enough good players that probably aren't going to go backwards. So there may be someone who just breaks away and who has like a 4-under tomorrow if the weather is like today. It will be someone who gets out, like Mike Weir today. If you go out tomorrow, it might be someone else, because backing it up is tough because there's a little bit of luck. But if he's got his form down, Mike might be able to roll it like that again.   
 But it will be one person I would think that just pokes their head out and gets out. It's all bunched up and someone gets two or three shots back and gets 3-, 4-, 5-under.   
  
  Q. Goggin, do you know much about it?  
 STUART APPLEBY: I know a lot about him. He's obviously playing well and I would love to see him win. All the Aussies would love to see Matty win.  
  
  Q. He's been called streaky by some of your country mates.   
 STUART APPLEBY: We're all sort of streaky.   
  
  Q. How would that potentially work out?  
 STUART APPLEBY: I don't know. I don't know. He hasn't been in a positions a lot like this and not enough. So really the question will be what has he learned from the first three days and how much of that does he apply on Sunday and if he applies it to Sunday he'll go out and play well.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT