MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 12, 2008
Stuart Appleby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Could you just talk about your round a little bit today, please.   
 STUART APPLEBY: Today was nothing special. Nothing to write home to mother about. Just didn't putt well. I haven't putted well enough this week consistently to keep moving ahead, getting into the red numbers.   
 That's probably been -- I've been striking the ball basically brilliant, driving it pretty well, my irons I'm all pretty happy with, but just not getting the right line or the right speed or a combination of both.   
  
  Q. If there is such a thing as a good bogey, I guess you would have a good one on 11.   
 STUART APPLEBY: Yes, I did. Yeah, I had a long shot in, I was trying to hit a 3-iron from over 220 yards and didn't really have the lie that was conducive to leaving the ball right and flipped it over and in the drink. And Justin and I did the same. So that was a pretty tough hole with the pin tucked a long way back.   
  
  Q. With the rain this morning, how are the conditions compared to yesterday?  
 STUART APPLEBY: The greens are obviously softer, but they haven't been hard generally. The only shots that were playing hard yesterday were the third shot like into 15. But today everything's pretty soft. There's still a lot of speed there, but a lot easier the course is playing. But I think you could get into the, you know, comfortably into the 60s today if you are putting properly.  
  
  Q. Was the wind a factor?  
 STUART APPLEBY: Not as much as I thought it was going to be. I really thought the wind could have been strong enough where it really would have been quite confusing. It's just pretty consistently light and not too strong. So it won't worry players much, that will only make the one to half a club difference.   
  
  Q. It's supposed to gust tomorrow pretty high, what's the strategy on that? Can you hit knock down shots here and get them to the green?  
 STUART APPLEBY: It's just very, very difficult. At least the course won't be dry. So the greens should be pretty soft. So that will help. But compared to last year they were very dry and fast and windy. So that was probably as hard as it's going to play. So we should have -- it should be -- and it's not going be to be as cold. So it will be probably the most difficult day I would suggest if the weather's correct.   
  
  Q. So basically it's just your putting that's been the hang up?  
 STUART APPLEBY: Yeah, if I would have putted better, putted more like I have been putting I definitely would have been in red numbers. But I've been hitting it really well. It's not an easy thing to do around here. But bottom line is, once you get it on the greens it doesn't matter how good you're hitting it, it's all in how good you're going to putt it.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT