FBR OPEN
February 3, 2008
Stuart Appleby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Anything in particular kind of kick-start your back nine? 
 STUART APPLEBY:  No, I had a good chance for birdie on 10, missed that from about four feet on 10. 
 Made a good birdie on 11.  Hit it in the water on 11 yesterday, so sort of got some redemption there. 
 Good up-and-down on the next, on the par 3. 
 Par 5, I birdied, long, long two-putt. 
 Made a long two-putt on the par 5 on 15. 
 And then a good long two-putt for par on 16. 
 17, made probably about a 12-footer. 
 And 18, probably, again, about a 12-footer. 

 Q.  Just talk about your week, your experience. 
 STUART APPLEBY:  I played pretty good all week, decent.  I didn't play very good yesterday.  I got up and down a lot.  I think I got up and down like 12 out of 13 times, so that was critical, so it was pretty sloppy golf. 
 Today I played a bit better.  I got some putts and got it rolling okay.  But the first two days were really, really some of my best ball-striking days and putted pretty good. 

 Q.  Conditions out there are a little better than we thought.  Some low scores still available out there? 
 STUART APPLEBY:  Yeah.  I'm not sure if that's because the players are a bit more familiar.  Some of the pins are quite difficult.  The pins coming in aren't too tricky.  15 is obviously a birdie chance.  16 is a reasonably generous pin today, frontish pin, and certainly 17 is a chance, and 18 today is very accessible.  So there are some birdies left on the course for the guys coming in.  I think whoever wins will probably just squeeze one out, one more than the others out of those. 

 Q.  You know you're only one shot out of the lead right now? 
 STUART APPLEBY:  Yeah, I saw that.  Like I just said, there's enough birdies coming in where I think that someone might be able to just squeeze one out and keep out front. 

 Q.  Why did you decide to come back and play here? 
 STUART APPLEBY:  Well, I just came back from Australia for last week's tournament, so I thought it made sense to at least get another week under my belt before a break, and I didn't think playing one week was worth it.  This was partially on the way there, I wasn't going to turn back to next week's tournament. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT