BUICK INVITATIONAL
January 24, 2008
Stuart Appleby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   STUART APPLEBY:  The greens were nothing like what I've been practicing on, so I was sort of happy to get the ball around the hole today.   
  
  Q.  We were worried about the weather and the greens being a little spongy, but when I was out there the ball seemed to be staying on the ground and the guys were rolling putts.   
 STUART APPLEBY:  Yeah, it was.  Splitting a big decent field up on two courses helps keep the traffic down.  I think that kept them reasonable.  But when you're rolling them like I am, you're not going to complain.  You know the ball looks all right and it gets in the hole and there's plenty of guys that probably struggled a bit.  So they're not smooth, but if you can just get your eye in and sort of get over how it might react if you miss one and move to the next hole, you can probably get them in.   
  
  Q.  Six birdies in a row today, did you just feel it?  Did you kind of know you could keep it rolling?   
 STUART APPLEBY:  It's just like getting lucky cards, really.  You know, they all weren't short putts.  It was good golf.  I mean, you've got to make the putts.  I just kept making them and kept making them and kept going with it, and eventually it ran out and I was happy to get six.  I hardly ever do those sort of things, let alone in a tournament, in every blue moon, really.  I think I've probably only done that a couple times, and probably on greens that weren't really that smooth, at all.  So that was a good effort for me.   
  
  Q.  You're known as a pretty quality wind player.  How was the wind out there?   
 STUART APPLEBY:  It was heavy, really heavy.  I've just come from Australia, so it was dry and high temperatures, pretty warm, so I'm used to hitting it a lot further.  I felt like today it was cool enough where you never felt physically really warm, hitting a lot more club than the yardage dictated.  But I think I got that under control after yesterday's Pro-Am.   
  
  Q.  On the first tee today, do you guys have added pressure to know you may have to go a little lower today because you're on the North?   
 STUART APPLEBY:  I don't know.  You know, I know what you're saying, added pressure.  You'd like to think you can sort of get 3-, 4-under par because the other course is much, much more difficult.  Yeah, I think so.  If you've shot around even par today you know it's going to be pretty hard work tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT