WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 2, 2007
Stuart Appleby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   STUART APPLEBY:  The rough is as long as I've seen it.  The fairways are pretty firm and can get firmer if we keep the rain away.  So a lot of respect in driving the ball.  If you didn't drive the ball, you had to scramble.  I did that a couple times.  And the greens are as quick as I've ever seen them.  I made the up-and-downs and made some birdies.  It wasn't a low scoring round, but I did enough things where I played well enough to get myself to 2-under.  If we get the course firmer and the greens a bit firmer, I think even par will be a good score. 

 Q.  Do you feel like this round was just waiting to happen? 
 STUART APPLEBY:  I think you've got to be the eternal optimist, the next round.  You never tee off thinking another 5-over par or anything like that.  I have generally been playing well.  I have been able to get the ingredients right but didn't know how long to turn the oven on for.  Hopefully I can keep it up for three rounds.  Hopefully I can play the rest of the year like this because this was less stress and more enjoyable. 

 Q.  So this is more like you should have been shooting -- 
 STUART APPLEBY:  That's fair enough, yeah.  I mean, I would rather -- I'm just a bit more relaxed with my game, not as picky or critical in many parts, so I'm just trying to be a bit more relaxed and use my natural instinct, which I think my instincts are really good.  Most guys out here have that and then you try to mechanically screw with it and believe there's another way to do it better, but your instinct is a pretty good and true thing.  It's good.  It's almost a home game for me, too.  I've got a big pressure on with a big B on my hat. 

 Q.  With family being here, is this almost becoming a homecoming for you? 
 STUART APPLEBY:  I, probably this year, only got 20 tickets and sometimes we've seen three and four times that.  Their family is either losing friends or the tournament is trying to tighten up, I don't know. 

 Q.  Talk about how the heat changes your strategy. 
 STUART APPLEBY:  Well, I practice and play in Florida, so this is just warm, it's not hot.  Ohioans probably think the world is going to end, but if you come from central Florida, this is not bad. 

 Q.  I understand with your in-laws, I imagine, and you're the Bridgestone sponsor, it seems like there are a lot of distractions. 
 STUART APPLEBY:  I know the course very well.  I've seen it play unfortunately too many times very wet and we've seen it play firm, but just get out and play.  Once I stand on the tee, just play golf, you know? 

 Q.  Can you give us like a feeling for -- do you have a lot more commitments with the sponsorship, like this week with just the appearance and stuff? 
 STUART APPLEBY:  I could use a lot more, but I'm never going to let it get to a distracting stage.  I have more commitments, but that's expected.  You know, that's part of the deal.  That's why you get paid. 

 Q.  Can you explain why Tiger has a better record here than any other course he plays? 
 STUART APPLEBY:  I think he's just good. 

 Q.  He's good everywhere but he's better here. 
 STUART APPLEBY:  I hope he's not better than me this week. 
 He can play anywhere.  He hasn't proven he's got a weak shot in his game, so it's not built like a right-to-left course or anything.  He's comfortable here.  This is his Kapalua for me.  That's really what it is, except he's obviously played more years and had more victories. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT