THE COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 28, 2007
Stuart Appleby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  An impressive run, did you feel as if it was going to be a winning one? 
 STUART APPLEBY:  Probably was too many holes ahead of the guys that were also leading and you could have that run out of hole scenario.  For me I ran out of holes but there's still birdie chances and the wind is not strong enough today.  I would like to say it's a winning score; things are going to have to happen.  It has happened before. 
 A good day for me, my really only day where I played proper golf. 

 Q.  A lot of players are well ahead of leaders and there is not any pressure and that is why they produce a low score; is that a factor is that a myth? 
 STUART APPLEBY:  It can be both really.  It can be both.  For me, I was frustrated yesterday's play and spent some time on the range and sort of got some stuff resolved.  My putting sort of improved as the week got on, and today I started off with two birdies so two nice putts, 20-plus feet.  Sometimes that can be a bad thing, you can make a mess of it but I managed to get some more birdies on top and get going. 
 It was just easy enough today.  There are a couple of scores out there in the mid to late 60s, and I'm surprised the leaders probably haven't gone further ahead. 

 Q.  Probably too early to say never at this point, but the last couple of holes probably just left you maybe one shot? 
 STUART APPLEBY:  Yeah, I think you've got, certainly 16 is a birdie chance, 17 today is a wedge, max, and accessible.  If the wind was really blowing, that could be a very, very different 17 and 18 was a birdie chance as well.  It's not like they have 500-yard par 4s coming in.  You never know, though. 

 Q.  So what do you do? 
 STUART APPLEBY:  Hang around and enjoy the beautiful place and sunshine.  It's been a fun week.  It's my first time here and I really enjoyed it. 

 Q.  Would you prefer Kapalua conditions today? 
 STUART APPLEBY:  See, Kapalua is big and it's wide, so it's made for the wind.  This is made for, I don't know, you know, pretty benign conditions.  It would have been very difficult.  The greens are hard and quick enough in certain areas so if it was windy, you know, I don't think anybody would have dreamt of shooting anything like 66. 
 You played one good round and that was the end of the week I guess.  I would rather do it that way than sort of lose it going into the end of the week. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT