THE COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 25, 2007
Stuart Appleby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  2-under par 70, are you satisfied with that?   
 STUART APPLEBY:  Not really.  Got off to a slow start.  Just wasn't comfortable, didn't feel comfortable on the course for a while.  I know the course well enough to sort of -- I should be comfortable.   
 But I just didn't putt well.  So I've got some homework to do this afternoon.  Obviously I'm working the right direction but not moving the right rate the next three days.   
  
  Q.  First visit; what do you think of the course?   
 STUART APPLEBY:  Good test.  Good test.  We had practise rounds, first rounds Tuesday, very, very windy, a little bit softer yesterday in the Pro-Am.  Not an easy golf course with a light breeze, and certainly very, very difficult with a strong breeze.   
  
  Q.  You don't play much outside the U.S., why here?   
 STUART APPLEBY:  Did it for that one reason.  I haven't really come and played anywhere else in Europe or in Asia, so I wanted to break up the routine a bit and make two weeks of it.   
 It was just a break of routine.  I've just been doing the same thing we've done doing in the States, and not that I'm ever going to be called a world player, Ernie Els or Adam Scott have sort of going down that route but I'm very, very impressed.  I'm looking forward to this week and next week.   
  
  Q.  You had a great year in the States last year, finished 8th on the Money List, your best ever; what prospects this year do you think?   
 STUART APPLEBY:  I would like to think that's on the cards and then some, a little bit greedy, each year want to get better and better.   
 I think I'm just going to go through my steps and look at how last year panned out for me.  Obviously I had already won by this stage of the year and my second win was late April.  I've got a full window of opportunities throughout the year to have just as good a season.  I haven't started it yet, but I haven't finished any of my seasons previously very well.  So I can make a run from now on.  Very much looking forward to it and a top at the point on the list would be very good.   
  
  Q.  You came close to winning a major in 2002 at the Open Championship; do you feel ready to do that now?   
 STUART APPLEBY:  Yeah, I think my game is good enough, but I haven't presented it to the finest level at the majors recently.  You know, it's there, but it's got to be there when I need it to be there.  That's the beauty, that's the difficult part of golf is actually presenting your game when you need to.  And that's what true champions do and that's what I've got to do.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT