PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 17, 2006
Stuart Appleby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  You probably would have been happy with 2 over at the start of the day, but I'm sure you're not happy right now.
STUART APPLEBY:  I played good today, pretty good.  I could have made some more putts.  I hit some good putts, just a couple tiny misreads.  The course is playing great.  It's fair.  Yeah, I would have like to have snuck away with more under than that.

There's a couple of interesting driving holes, doglegs left, 9 and 16, just very difficult holes to hit.  It's like the trees are too big for the hole.  It's sort of overgrown its functionality.  It didn't cost me 9, but yeah, made too many 5s coming in, too many bogeys.

It played good.  My game had improved today versus where it was the last week.  If I keep playing like that and maybe just get a little bit better reads on my putts, I can shoot 3  or 4 under each day.  But it was comfortable golf.  I didn't do much wrong, but I paid the price for what I did do wrong, but if I did things right, I actually got things right.  That's the worst thing about playing well is sometimes you do things right and they don't turn out to be birdies.  It was a little bit of a taste of both worlds.
Q.  You could have probably even played better than that?
STUART APPLEBY:  Yeah, could have.  Every tournament is like that, especially majors.  You can make a major course look like a normal course, but then the major course can make you look like a normal golfer in a heartbeat.  I'm disappointed but not disappointed if you know what I mean.
Q.  Are you driving it straight?
STUART APPLEBY:  Yeah, better.  You've definitely got to drive it good in the majors.  I'm not the best driver in the world, but you can disguise that through other areas, but it's difficult during majors to disguise average driving.  Yeah, you think about where you're trying to hit your tee shots.  The fairways are drying out, which is making some of the longer yardage a little bit easier.  But it's a nice, enjoyable course to play.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT