BARCLAYS CLASSIC
June 10, 2006
Stuart Appleby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Can you quantify the wind in terms of where you hit 6 iron yesterday and you hit something different today?
STUART APPLEBY:  I was very    sometimes the wind didn't make any difference because it's so sheltered some tee shots to iron holes, tough reads, and sometimes drivers are so sheltered it didn't matter.  Other times it was all over the place.  It was into you from behind and upside down.  It made it really difficult to know where to start your shots.  I think it was very difficult.  Into the wind was unbelievably slow uphill and downhill was like it was gusting.  I didn't leave myself too many of those really scary ones that really make it hard, and that wasn't by choice; I was trying, but it just turned out that way.
Q.  You said when you showed up today you didn't think 5 under
STUART APPLEBY:  Well, I played under really mild conditions, soft, wet conditions for the first two days.  I hadn't played very well, and then how was I going to expect to shoot under par in these conditions?  I started with a birdie and just I guess didn't make any mistakes.  I'm really not quite sure how I did it today, really.  It just sort of all added up that way.  When I look back on the first two days, I wondered what was going on.
Q.  Did you change your ball flight in terms of
STUART APPLEBY:  Well, I like to control it as much as I could.  When you try to knock the ball down, you're always thinking it's going to kick up.  Most greens the ball wouldn't kick at all, so it was very hard to keep it down instead of just throwing it like a shot put and getting it to land.

Tomorrow the course will play a little bit tougher, it just depends how much we can keep the rain away tonight.
Q.  What are your thoughts going into tomorrow?
STUART APPLEBY:  I'd like to play much like today, made birdies, no bogeys, and I think that's the right thing, it's just a matter of how many can I make tomorrow and how little mistakes can I make and to try and chip away and get up there, up to the top.  I've had one good round so far this week, and there's a lot of players playing better at the moment and in better form.  I think I'll just try and milk this feeling a bit more tomorrow and try and get the most I can out of it.
Q.  Your results here have been okay, not great by your standards.  Did you feel this can be a golf course you could fare well at?
STUART APPLEBY:  I haven't traditionally played well on this type of course.  I'm not really sure why I haven't played well on these type of greens.  I can't really quantify it, how it's come about.  But it's one round.  I've played dozens of rounds, and this is one good one, and I still think good golf can be played anywhere on any course anywhere.  For me it's been tough to get used to reading the greens, and I had my caddie help me out today and just confirm what I'm seeing and whether I'm right or wrong.  We work well together in that aspect.  Traditionally he doesn't read my greens, and I was frustrated enough yesterday that I said, "just have a look, will you?"


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT