PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2005
Stuart Appleby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  With the weather today, does the heat change the course?
STUART APPLEBY:  Well, actually, it was quite oppressive early on in the day, and it seemed to get better with the cloud cover.  It was still real hot but I think if we had sunshine all day, it would have been unbelievable, certainly a 110 heat index.

The greens were very dry, generally quick, some were actually a lot slower.  I think Vijay and I both got called out a couple of times with the slowness of some of the greens, but certainly a tougher, much different course to the early parts of the week.  I think we all expected that, though, that we were going to try to push it more the last few days.
Q.  1 under on the day, how do you feel about the round?
STUART APPLEBY:  Had a good round, really good round considering I didn't hit the ball well enough, or, you know, I hit the ball nice but I just couldn't seem to get it in the fairway.  Never mis hit a shot all day in the sense of timing, but didn't drive the ball well enough.  Greens, also, if you do hit it in the fairway, greens are firm enough where you really have to watch where you're landing your approach shots to get putts, so the course was just tough all around.

If you didn't hit the fairway, it was never going to get any easier.  I got up and down a lot today and that kept my round from something well over par.  No doubt it was going to be over par by missing putts out there that were very missable.
Q.  Did you putt better than Thursday?
STUART APPLEBY:  Different sort of round, very different round.  Different golf course, you know, just different.  I putted nice today.  I rolled the ball pretty good, misread a couple of putts, but made some nice putts; but I had to, I was scrambling enough where I guess got into rhythm of scrambling to keep the round together, and unfortunately that was a good bit of the day but finished with two birdies which got me back a bit under par.

Felt great on the course today.  Just settled down, was a bit nervous the first few holes, got settled down, got into the round and just thought it's going to be a tough day, just hang in there and just keep trucking.
Q.  Right now, you're two back from the leaders, what are your thoughts going into tomorrow?
STUART APPLEBY:  No thoughts except just, you know, this course is quite a big opponent, and it's likelier to knock you around than you knock it around.  So you're just going to have to focus on it.  It's a very, very good golf course.  It's starting to get really tough, and the golf course is the hardest opponent out here by far.  The players are a lot softer than this golf course.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT