BUICK OPEN
July 29, 2005
Stuart Appleby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Obviously it's going to be a blow to the team to have him not there playing.
STUART APPLEBY: "Yeah, I guess considering how close, I guess we're closing into finalizing the team, and obviously getting close to the date, and having such a seeded player, such a seeded player like Ernie Els and seeing how he was so instrumental in the last Cup match, or final match, or match with Tiger in the darkness in South Africa, that was an amazing event. So to have Ernie now not there due to well, the only reason Ernie Els would never be on our team would be due to something like this, is a bit of a blow for the team, because obviously he's a pretty key player and it makes it a tough task of winning the Presidents Cup, even that little more tougher. It still all boils down to all of us as a team, and I guess without Ernie, what team we've got left is to play well. I mean, it's still within our grasp. But to have a guy out there who is literally in your key matches to get you three wins to not have him there is probably measurable, but I'm sure Ernie is very frustrated he is not able to play."
Q. Robert talked about his presence not only on the golf course, but what he brings to the team in the locker room.
STUART APPLEBY: "Ernie in all of the aspects of what the Presidents Cup is, is a valuable member in his career and a valuable member socially for the team. Yeah, he'll be missed. He'll be certainly missed, and I'm sure he's going to be, I hope watching it on TV. Ernie is such a competitor, being out of the ring like that, has got to be frustrating. Yeah, so you know, we'll have to see how we go, and then without a key player like that, it would affect our players, and the Americans losing a key player would also be fundamentally a problem for them. I'm sure the Americans are generally got a smile on their face."
Q. Vijay talked about hoping that he would still be there, even if he can't play.
STUART APPLEBY: "I don't know. That may be the scenario."
Q. That could be an upside for the International Team just to have him.
STUART APPLEBY: "I think that would be a good thing. I'm not sure where Ernie is mentally with that idea, but like Vijay said, that's not a bad thing. But I'm sure it would be frustrating at the same time potentially having to look at being a team mascot for the week."
Q. Still it's going to be a pretty good International Team.
STUART APPLEBY: "Yeah, it will be good, no doubt, a good International Team. Really with the tie in South Africa, we've got to get them on U.S. soil and try to beat the Americans on their home turf, and that's something we haven't come close to in a while. Really, if we can do it, it will happen in a matter of time, but obviously, you know, you just want to keep getting on top of it. And we'll have to find a way, as I said, there's plenty of ways to skin a cat, no offense to the cat lovers."


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT