NBA FINALS: PISTONS v SPURS
June 11, 2005
Ben Wallace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Ben, you guys are not in an unfamiliar position, down in the series, you were down the previous two series but you showed a lot of resiliency.  Just talk about your team's resiliency and the way it bounces back. 
 
BEN WALLACE:  I really don't know, you know, really can't explain how we bounce back, it's just certain things that we do. 
 
Q.  Is it possibly because you've got a collection of players who, you know, are resilient themselves, a lot of organizations that kind of gave up on you, a lot of players like that? 
 
BEN WALLACE:  Like I said, I really don't know.  Just one of those things that we have guys on this team that have come ready to play. 
 
Q.  You're a pretty mellow fella and you don't get too many technical fouls, bad call the other night --
 
BEN WALLACE:  Was it a bad call?  
 
Q.  I believe so.  You're Defensive Player of the Year three times, how much of your anger results in the fact you don't get the respect due you as an award-winning veteran?
 
BEN WALLACE:  I don't care about respect.  Respect is overrated.  Just one of these things that happens during the course of a game.  
 
Q.  They dominated you guys on the boards in Game 1, why was that and how do you turn that around for Game 2?
 
BEN WALLACE:  You know, I don't know.  Just one of those things where the team has to come out and do a better job the next game.  
 
Q.  You said something just happened in the course of the game, and the game seemed to turn on that, do you tell yourself afterward that that won't happen again?  Can you pretty much say that that's something you'll try extra hard to avoid? 
 
BEN WALLACE:  No, I wouldn't try any harder to avoid anything like that.  You know, it's part of the game.  You go out there and you play with your heart and soul into the game.  I don't like to see guys being passive out there.  If you think you've been wronged or something is going wrong, then, you know, I would love you to show it.  Let your team feed off that energy. I'm not one of those guys that just twiddles his thumbs.  Just show my emotions and I'm fine. 
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT