NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PISTONS v HEAT
June 6, 2005
Ben Wallace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. You guys were as resilient as could be tonight.  They came back and took the lead in the final quarter and you held it together.  Is that a team that's just been in this position before?
 
BEN WALLACE:  Yeah, we have a veteran team and we have a good group of guys here that, you know, know how to come out and play basketball, especially down the stretch.  
 
Q.  For you dealing with Shaq, this series must have felt like a month long and three heavyweight fights in there. 
 
BEN WALLACE:  Yeah, it's tough, it's tough.  With Shaq, you just have to do whatever you can do, just try to limit his dunks.  You come out and try to go out. 
 
Q.  How satisfying is it to win against all of the odds in their place? 
 
BEN WALLACE:  Like I said, we don't worry about the odds.  We're defending champs and we don't worry about the odds in the locker room, those are the type of guys we have here.  We've been in tough situations before.  We won a championship before, so we know what it takes. 
 
Q.  McDyess to get here to the Finals after what he's been through, what does that mean to you guys? 
 
BEN WALLACE:  We said earlier that we'll try to give ourselves an opportunity to get back to the Finals, so that was a big part of it, he's been doing great things all season.  As long as he continues to relax and come out the way he's been playing, we're going to be all right. 
 
Q.  Now that you've gotten past Shaq, you have to face Tim. 
 
BEN WALLACE:  Face the Spurs.  
 
Q.  But it's an even bigger test in the middle there, what do you expect? 
 
BEN WALLACE:  Bigger than Shaq?  (Laughter). 
 
Q.  Do you think Duncan is an easier challenge for you guys?  He's a different player, nobody can compare. 
 
BEN WALLACE:  Duncan is a great player.  He'll eventually be a Hall of Famer.  You know, Shaq is Shaq, man.  That's a tall task.  
 
Q.  How satisfying is it that you were able to get past him?
 
BEN WALLACE:  Oh, man, it was good to be able to come out here and get the win and show that we can go on the road and win in a hostile environment.  That's what it is, coming out in a Game 7 and just telling everybody that we worked to get here and now we've just got to go out and finish the game.  Everybody came ready today and that's what it takes, a team effort.  
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT