NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PISTONS v HEAT
June 4, 2005
Ben Wallace
Rasheed Wallace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Ben, it looked like you gave them some different looks, what do you think the effect was?
 
BEN WALLACE:  We just tried to make a long post, give them different looks and for the most part he went.  
 
Q.  How different are they without Dwyane Wade? 
 
BEN WALLACE:  You know, they are a different team, but it's the playoffs.  You've got to rally the troops together and everybody else has to step it up.  
 
Q.  What did you think of Shaq's comment that, "you're Defensive Player of the Year, show me"?
 
BEN WALLACE:  Next question.  
 
Q.  Some of your teammates have been concerned about you, it seemed like you've been a little down the last couple of days.  Have you been, and how do you feel right now? 
 
BEN WALLACE:  I feel good.  You know, I ain't never going to be down.  I've been through a lot, but I'm a tough guy, bounce back.  I'm here with my family and friends, but when I come to work, that's what it is. 
 
Q.  Talk about your mentality going into Game 7  Monday night. 
 
BEN WALLACE:  We've just got to build on this game.  You know, we take care of the basketball and give ourselves opportunities to score and try to force them to turn the ball over and get some transition and take care of the back boards and we're good.  
 
Q.  Were you more motivated because of Shaq's comments? 
 
BEN WALLACE:  This is a win-or-go-home game.  I don't think anything a guy says can motivate you any more than being at this point in the season.  
 
Q.  Where has that energy been that you guys had tonight?
 
BEN WALLACE:  I don't know.  You know, we've got to find a way to bring it down to Miami and give ourselves every opportunity to win the game.  
 
Q.  We've always talked about the experiences that this team has been through to help you guys in each situation in the playoffs, but this team has not played a Game 7 on the road.  In fact, the Pistons haven't since 1988, so where do you draw on the experience for this game?
 
BEN WALLACE:  We're not looking for experience to draw on.  Like tonight, we came out tonight, took care of the basketball.  
 
Q.  Talk about the way you guys played defense and the intensity. 
 
RASHEED WALLACE:  Just happy to go out there and play.  Backs are against the wall so got to be the same thing in the next game. 
 
Q.  Where did the intensity come from?
 
RASHEED WALLACE:  Like I said, our backs' against the wall, so we have to come out with the same energy or even more in Game 7 . 
 
Q.  You gave Shaq some different looks tonight. 
 
RASHEED WALLACE:  That's what we tried to do, give him different looks, as opposed to always being behind him on three-quarter, just try to find a little bit of double early, throw him off, keep him off balance.  
 
Q.  How different were they without Wade tonight?
 
RASHEED WALLACE:  They are a different ballclub, less penetration.  The way he likes to get to the basket, there's less penetration.  
 
Q.  Do you think he'll be back for a Game 7?
 
RASHEED WALLACE:  Hopefully he'll play.  Hopefully he'll play the whole game.  You know, I think it will make for a better game myself personally, but if he plays, then good for him.  If not, then hey, that's something they have to deal with.  Either way, doesn't matter to us because we've got to go out there and play.  
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT