NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PISTONS v HEAT
May 30, 2005
Chauncey Billups
Ben Wallace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Shaq, he's been getting away with a lot of stuff.  What do you guys have to do to kind of neutralize him?
 
BEN WALLACE:  I don't know.  I mean, we went out there and did pretty much everything we could and walked away with about 15 fouls. 
 

Q.  Your mindset going into Game 4?  I mean, you guys have talked about here.  The last two games you had to leave in the fourth quarter, kind of uncharacteristic.  Where are you guys at confidence-wise and everything else?
 
BEN WALLACE:  Oh, this team has never lacked confidence.  No matter what happens, our confidence is always high.  We know we're capable of getting back with a good fight.  We've been down before.  We know how it is bouncing back.  This team has been doing a great job ever since I've been here playing in the playoffs of being able to come back and adjust. 
 
Q.  Why was this different from being down in 2-1 in Miami to being down 2-1 to Indiana or New Jersey?
 
BEN WALLACE:  There's no difference.
 
 

Q.  Where did the frustration last night come from?  Was it the officiating, was it Miami, something you guys weren't doing, you guys' intensity level?
 
BEN WALLACE:  I mean, a game like that when everybody is marching to the free throw line it's tough to get a rhythm.  You're in foul trouble, you come off the bench and it's tough to get back going.  It's one of those games where you just want to get it over with, regardless of win, loss, you just want to get out of that game. 
 
Q.  Is your confidence bruised after losing last night?
 
CHAUNCEY BILLUPS:   No, our confidence is not bruised at all.  We lost last night and they played good, you've got to give them some credit.  But no, our confidence is definitely not bruised. 
 
Q.  This situation, going back a few years, you guys were at your best when your backs were against the wall, so to speak, and maybe you guys don't play well when you have things going well in a series or whatever. 
 
CHAUNCEY BILLUPS:   I mean, it definitely brings back some memories.  But our team is always at our best when our backs are against the wall.  That's not to say that we shouldn't have been good yesterday because we should have, but we wasn't.  You know, it's a 2-1 series right now, just like everybody expected.  This is going to be a great series.  
 
Q.  You guys are known for your defense.  What broke down defensively last night to allow them to get 113 points?
 
CHAUNCEY BILLUPS:   I mean, they got a lot of layups, you know, a shooting percentage like that, shooting 60 percent in the first half, over 50 for the game.  I mean, you shoot that kind of percentage, it doesn't matter who you're playing, you're going to score 100 points. 
 
Q.  Should Miami gain any confidence from the fact that they were able to frustrate you guys and you did kind of lose your cool at times?
 
CHAUNCEY BILLUPS:   I told you all last night and I'll tell you all again it wasn't them that frustrated us.  I ain't going to get into it, but I told y'all that last night; it wasn't the Heat.  Y'all are drawing conclusions.  
 
Q.  Hasn't it been a mark of this team that you guys have been able to keep cool and stay poised under pressure?
 
CHAUNCEY BILLUPS:   Yeah, we do.  We usually keep our cool and we stay poised in game situations, but it's tough when you feel like you don't have that much control of what's going on.  
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT