NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PISTONS v HEAT
May 24, 2006
Ben Wallace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Talk about the shoot-around today coming off a seven-game series.  Were you just having a light day between games?   
 BEN WALLACE:  I mean, it's just one of those things.  You've got to do whatever you can do to try to get prepared before you get ready to play.  It's just one of those things.  We'll see what happens tomorrow.   
  Q.  Do you guys think you look tired?   
 BEN WALLACE:  We do look tired and come out and don't execute on the offensive end and put all the pressure on our defense when we don't come out and execute on the offensive end, we skill our defense.  When we don't get back down the floor, we look tired.   
  Q.  Is it a coincidence we keep seeing these types of things?  We've seen this before.   
 BEN WALLACE:  No.  It's one of those things.  That's one thing about this game, you've got your ups and downs.  Whoever can say they can go the longest, then they're going to win the game.   
  Q.  Talk about ups and downs.  Were there many ups for you from Game 1?   
 BEN WALLACE:  We had control of the game in the third quarter, and it came down and we took some bad shots and put all the pressure on our defense and weren't able to get back and hold it up on the other end.   
  Q.  Do you think whether you realize it or not that you think you relaxed with Shaq and Wade in foul trouble?   
 BEN WALLACE:  No.  Like I said, we just took some bad shots.  When you take bad shots, it's off to the races the other way.   
  Q.  What's your philosophy of defending Shaq?   
 BEN WALLACE:  There's no philosophy, just go out there and play basketball, that's all.  That's all you can do.   
  Q.  What worked to get Shaq and Wade in foul trouble?   
 BEN WALLACE:  I don't know.   
  Q.  (Inaudible).   
 BEN WALLACE:  We've got to move the basketball.  We've got to get everybody involved.  When we get everybody involved and everybody moving and start forcing people to make mistakes, that's what we have to act.   
  Q.  Isn't that an easy fix then?   
 BEN WALLACE:  It's something we've been talking about all season.  Sometimes you get out there and we forget about the little things.  Little things make a big difference.   
  Q.  Not only are you taking bad shots, but a lot of open looks just didn't go down, same thing in Cleveland.   
 BEN WALLACE:  It doesn't matter.  You get open looks, we want everybody to take them.  You get a good shot, we don't want you to pass it up for nothing.  We want you to take the shot because you've got everybody in place and you've got an opportunity to rebound the basketball.  Bad shots are the ones that you can't recover from.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT