NBA FINALS: PISTONS v SPURS
June 23, 2005
Ben Wallace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Ben, can you talk about the play of Tim Duncan and how he seemed to will this team to a win in the second half? 

BEN WALLACE:  He put his team on his shoulders and carried them to a championship.  You know, that's what the great players do. 

Q.  What do you feel like happened to you guys in the fourth quarter? 

BEN WALLACE:  We didn't make plays down the stretch.  We didn't do what we needed to in crucial points of the game.  They got shots, they needed shots and made plays they needed.  We didn't do those things. 

Q.  How does it feel knowing that you were tied 57-57 and the Championship was that close and that you're not able to go home with it? 

BEN WALLACE:  You know, we let one slip away, everybody feels like we let one slip away.  But you've got to tip your hat to the Spurs, they came out and showed a lot of guts and gave it a lot of heart and when they needed to make plays, they did.  They went out and earned it. 

Q.  How tough was it to watch another team celebrate the Championship that you guys have held for a year?

BEN WALLACE:  It's tough, it's tough any time you come this close to winning the Championship and have it slip through your fingers, it's going to be tough.  You know this team, the rest of these guys, everybody came out and played hard and gave it their all and that's all we can ask. 

Q.  Any thoughts about next year maybe without Larry Brown on the bench? 

BEN WALLACE:  No.  We said going in, you know, we get back to Detroit and wrap this thing up.  Hopefully everybody will have a good summer and enjoy the summer with their family and whatever.  So, you know, that's not something we want to think about right now.  We just take care of our bodies and see everybody come back and ready to play next year.

Q.  Looking forward to the next few weeks, how long do you think this loss is going to stay with you? 

BEN WALLACE:  You know, it's not something that -- everybody's hurt, everybody's a little bit disappointed but everybody will bounce back.  I don't think anybody will let this hold them down.  We'll bounce back and come back. 

Q.  Can you take pride in the fact that this in the end was a series that everyone will remember, one of the better series we've seen in a long time?  Does that matter to you at all? 

BEN WALLACE:  No, not really.  You know, I think that all -- the only thing that matters right now is that we get back and we get over this as soon as possible, get back to working out and get ready for next year, everybody is playing hard and hopefully everybody will come back next year with the same intensity and effort and try to make a run at it again. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT