NBA FINALS: PISTONS v SPURS
June 19, 2005
Ben Wallace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Obviously you played in The Finals before, but have you ever been in a game with that kind of nip and tuck, all the way to the end that had that kind of an atmosphere?

BEN WALLACE:  Yeah, I've been in a couple games like that. 

Q.  What was the feeling out there?  Can you describe just how tough it was to get separation?  I mean, you guys did open up some leads, but it was just so close all the way through. 

BEN WALLACE:  Yeah, it's two teams out there fighting for every inch of the court.  You've got two teams playing for a championship, you know, things like that happen.  We knew it was going to be one of those games tonight.

Q.  What happened on the last defensive set with six seconds to go or nine seconds to go and you were up by two and Robert Horry got free for the 3-pointer?  Something Larry Brown just said, it was a miscommunication?

BEN WALLACE:  Yeah, you know, they ran a little baseline screen with Duncan and Ginobili, and I think 'Sheed went to double-team Ginobili in the corner and you know, they kicked it back to Robert Horry, and he knocked down a big shot for them. 

Q.  Do you feel like losing a tough game like this undoes all the momentum you had after Games 3 and 4?

BEN WALLACE:  No, not really.  You know, this series is not over.  We've still got a lot of fight in us.  We've got to do what they did.  We've got to go there and find a way to win a game.  The series is not over, still got a lot of fight and you're not going to lose confidence by one game. 

Q.  How much fight do you have?  How big a hill do you have to climb?

BEN WALLACE:  We've got a tough task, but we've been in tough situations before, we're going to get ahead and continue to play.  We're going to fight till the end.  We have to stick together as a team, play the way we've been playing and not let this get us down.  We're a tough-minded team and we have some tough guys in the locker room.  We'll bounce back.

Q.  You haven't won in San Antonio like for ten games in a row, is there something special about playing against their crowd or in their arena? 

BEN WALLACE:  No, not really.  That don't matter in the playoffs. 

Q.  On Robert Horry, he's done this so many times on the biggest stage, can you just talk about his performance and his energy in the end.  He really picked them up in this game. 

BEN WALLACE:  Yeah, he was big for them.  He made plays when they needed to make plays.  He came out with a lot of energy, you know, knocked down big shot after big shot and was able to close off a great game with a great shot at the end.  You know, that's what he's been doing all his career.  He's a proven winner, a guy goes out and plays unselfish basketball and finds ways to win down the stretch and that's what he did tonight. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT