IRISH OPEN
May 18, 2007
Joakim Backstrom
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JOAKIM BÄCKSTRÖM:  I'm in the clubhouse so I'm happy about that.   
  
  Q.  How difficult was it out there?   
 JOAKIM BÄCKSTRÖM:  Extremely difficult.  The course is not playing that long now.  They moved up a lot of the tees.   
 But now it's blowing a gale and when you're off the fairway, you can't really get to the green, so that's really tough.   
  
  Q.  Padraig Harrington was saying there is a bit of shelter out on the course because of the trees, but by the same token, this week is just so severe.   
 JOAKIM BÄCKSTRÖM:  And I think those sheltered holes, they are not playing easier because you know if you hit the ball in the trees, it's going to go somewhere; you're not sure where the wind is coming from.  So, okay, it's not as windy there, but it's just as tough.   
  
  Q.  Were you able to keep the ball below the tree line?   
 JOAKIM BÄCKSTRÖM:  I tried to as much as I could on both holes.  I just played away from the pin a lot today.  I just tried to hit the greens, and I think I hit four feet I think and just trying to make pars, because par is good out there.   
 Like I said, I'm extremely happy to be where I'm at on the leaderboard now and being able to go to the hotel and have a sleep.   
  
  Q.  Have you got the best side of the draw?   
 JOAKIM BÄCKSTRÖM:  I think we have the good side of the draw, yeah, because it wasn't as windy yesterday for the morning or the afternoon field but we had sunshine.  And then it wasn't this windy for the first nine I think today, so absolutely.  Let's hope they don't get too much rain this afternoon.   
  
  Q.  Do you feel that it justified, as well, you've put yourself in the right positions in recent weeks and you need a good break like this.   
 JOAKIM BÄCKSTRÖM:  Yeah, I've played quite well now for three, four weeks, and it's just a matter of keeping it together through four rounds.  I've been playing great golf for one or two round and then slipping up a bit.  So, try to be patient and play good golf for four solid rounds.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT