UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME MEDIA CONFERENCE
April 24, 2010
Nate Montana
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
  Q. It looked like you got comfortable as the game went on and you got more snaps under your belt?  
 NATE MONTANA: Yeah, always when I first go out there I'm always a little jittery, a little overexcited. But as time went on, I got more comfortable and settled in a little bit and just took time and the game slowed down for me.  
  
  Q. How much more comfortable are you than the first time you played?  
 NATE MONTANA: I don't know, it's hard to tell. Comparing to last year's offense they're two completely different offenses. It's a whole different experience, but it's fun at the same time to be able to just spread the field out and we're going to throw a lot, so it's going to be exciting.  
  
  Q. Do you feel like you established something this spring that you've got a spot on this spring and that you're going to be in the mix as you go into the fall?  
 NATE MONTANA: I feel confident in what I've done during the spring. I've progressively gotten better, I feel at least, and hopefully that's the way the coach will see it, too.  
  
  Q. What was your work ethic like getting ready for the season?  
 NATE MONTANA: Well, off-season I train real hard, like out in LA I throw every day with my dad or some of his friends, and I'd lift almost every day and run, too. I don't know, it's just -- you've just got to stay dedicated, I guess, and put in the time.  
  
  Q. When did you start feeling comfortable this spring, because Coach has been hard on you at practice but you certainly looked as confident today as any time we've been able to see you this spring.   
 NATE MONTANA: I don't know, today was just like a -- today was probably the best practice we've had, too. Today really cemented it, I guess. Today was like the first day I've relaxed and felt like the most comfortable out of all the practices. They threw a lot at us, but today was just nice and relaxing for me. So today would probably be the answer.  
  
  Q. Do you feel like you're a million miles away from junior college now?  
 NATE MONTANA: Yeah, I'm real far from that, I think, and I think I've gotten a lot better since I came in here, especially with help from the coaches, like being coached and helping them -- them helping me understand the offense has really helped me progress.  
  
  Q. Even though there were some rough times there, do you feel like that was still the right move, to go there and get some snaps?  
 NATE MONTANA: Yeah, I do. I don't think I would be as competitive or in the situation to be as competitive as if I didn't get those game time snaps. So I think it was.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT