PLAYSTATION FIESTA BOWL: OHIO STATE VS CLEMSON
December 28, 2016
Jordan Leggett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JORDAN LEGGETT: ... coming back to football, just being locked in just getting the job done.  But I'm not really too worried about it.
Anything can change.  A lot of change goes on in these last couple of games.  Just being top games, there's going to be a lot of things that can change up.  So I'm going to do whatever I can to help myself, not hurt myself.
Q. Can you explain how you have to be unselfish in that scenario?  You have to kind of, when your opportunity comes, be ready?
JORDAN LEGGETT: Yeah, you just, like you said, just make the most out of the opportunity.  Whenever they do decide to throw the ball to you.  But just having this many weapons kind of makes it more helpful for everybody on the team, because it just opens up different people.  And just having Deshaun back there, just being the guy to decide where the ball goes and stuff like that, he's going to make the best decision.  He's the best quarterback in the nation.
So you just gotta depend on each other just get their job done.
Q. When you play alongside a guy who might be the best receiver in the country in Mike, what's your view of him, your view of his skill set, your view of what makes him special?
JORDAN LEGGETT: Just his physical physique.  He's 6'5", he can jump off the roof.  He's just a man-to-man nightmare you don't want to have.
Typically when you look at corners they're no taller than 6'2", something like that.  But having a guy out there like Mike that can run and do what he does, it helps everybody else out on the team.  If he wants to go out there and just be a freaky animal then they'll have to put somebody else over there.  It opens up everybody else on the receiving corps.  And even the running game it'll take somebody out of the box.  Just having a guy like him really stresses the defense out.
Q. Where do their linebackers rank as a group of linebackers you've seen?
JORDAN LEGGETT: Ours?
Q. No, theirs.
JORDAN LEGGETT: I mean, their whole defense is probably in the top five defenses we played this whole year.  It will definitely be challenging.  They have some big guys back there that stop the run and turn and run with receivers and stuff like that.  It's going to be interesting to see they're a bunch of pretty athletic dudes as I've seen on tape.
Q. I remember from a couple of years with Shazier, the way you guys played against them, how their linebackers cover in space.  How challenging is it for a tight end to try to get open when you know these guys are sound and they're good at what they do can't fool them?
JORDAN LEGGETT: I play with as much technique as I can.  I'm a pretty good route runner, if you ask me.  I'm not worried.  When I see man-to-man or I see me one-on-one with a linebacker, I think about what can I do to beat this guy in front of me.  That's just how I'll attack it every time.
Q. Deshaun (indiscernible) making a decision to go pro.  Has he shared that decision with you?
JORDAN LEGGETT: No, not really.  It's hard to say.  He honestly could go either way.  But whatever he does decide to do I'm sure all of us will be behind him no matter what.
Q. Talking about coaches telling you hopefully don't say anything stupid, but that's something that you know anyway?
JORDAN LEGGETT: Yeah, I mean you just want to go in here with as much character as possible.  Hold yourself to a higher standard and don't get into the trash-talking deal before the game.  You can't do nothing about it now.  You can only do it when we get in those 110 yards, 53 and a third across.
Q. Would the bulletin-board material mean anything?  Does it do anything at all?
JORDAN LEGGETT: It doesn't come from the other team as much.  It's normally from announcers and stuff like that having their two cents on the game and stuff like that.  But whenever Coach Swinney shows us stuff like that it piss us off.  Going into a game being the underdog what they say about different players on the team, it definitely makes you mad but you just kind of put that chip on your shoulder go out play ball and prove them wrong.
Q. Because you were here a year ago, you experienced a disappointment here, is this an extremely motivated, even beyond just making a playoff and all the things that you have to play for, is there a motivation to the team, more emotional, bigger than just that?
JORDAN LEGGETT: I wouldn't say so.  I mean, it's just another game for us.  It's against another team.  What happened last year happened last year.  But we kind of moved on from there.  We're just on to this season.  So what happened last year here doesn't affect us at all going into this game.
Q. Ben Boulware, with the beard, he hasn't shaved it since that game.  It's like he's hanging on to it almost.  First of all, is it a phenomenal beard?  And secondly he's in a different category, right?
JORDAN LEGGETT: He definitely has a pretty solid beard I would say, probably the best on the team.  But it's just a matter of how guys approach it.
I mean, just coming from that last game I don't know if I could have held a beard for that long.  But different people attack it different ways.  So that's just how he's kind of coping with it until we make it to the National Championship again, hopefully win it this time.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT