COLLEGE FOOTBALL PLAYOFF SEMIFINAL AT THE CAPITAL ONE ORANGE BOWL: CLEMSON VS OKLAHOMA
December 27, 2015
Jordan Leggett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JORDAN LEGGETT: I remember I was really young so I didn't get to play as much, but I did have one key catch.  Every bowl game we get to play in, it's all about just having fun and getting bowl experience.  It's been fun so far, so I'm definitely excited for the game.  I feel like a lot of Clemson fans are going to be there, as well, so it might turn out to be another home game like the ACC Championship.
Q. Is there anything that makes the Orange Bowl experience special from what you've been a part of?
JORDAN LEGGETT: I think the experience just comes with the location, just being down here in Fort Lauderdale/Miami area, it's been a blast.  I know the whole team has been having fun with it.  We get to go to South Beach tonight, so I'm pretty sure the whole team will be down there just walking around the streets.  It's just been a whole lot of fun to spend time with your teammates.
Q. Is there any advantage to having played here earlier this season when you guys faced the Hurricanes?  This is the third time in five years the team has been back here.  Do you feel like that helps you at all?
JORDAN LEGGETT: It brings a lot of momentum.  I mean, home-field advantage is kind of for the team that knows the field the best kind of thing.  Since we've played here three times, like you said, the last five years, we definitely know the field.  We know everything about it.  It was really good to have the young guys play in it this year.  It will definitely be okay for us just being so close to Florida and stuff like that and South Carolina.  But I feel like it will be a home-field advantage for us since we've played here so many times.
Q. Wayne was saying after the Miami game he remembers Coach Swinney telling you guys, you have a chance to be back here at the end of the year.  Do you remember him talking about that?  How much did you guys talk about getting to this point, to the Final Four, all year?
JORDAN LEGGETT: We just tried to take it one game at a time, really, just each game was just as important as the last one.  If we would have got beat by Wofford at the beginning of the year I don't think we'd be sitting in this place right now.  We just took every game one step as a time, but it's been a long season, and getting closer and closer to the playoffs and the semifinals, it's been fun to talk about with the team just because we're so close.  We're about to be the No. 1 seed.  We're excited, but we couldn't get complacent or anything like that.  We had to keep practicing with a purpose and go out there and win every game that we had a chance of playing in.
Q. Oklahoma hasn't really faced a legit tight end threat, certainly not the way that you are.  Do you kind of view this as a match-up that you're excited to be involved in because they're not going to be used to going against somebody who does what you do on the field?
JORDAN LEGGETT: It's definitely going to be fun.  I guess, like you said, they don't use them as much up in their conference.  It'll definitely be fun for me to see if they change their defensive game plan at all or if they just keep it the same.  I'm just going to do whatever I can to help the team win really, and I'm not going to do anything extra, just keep doing what I do, just be Jordan Leggett.  So it's definitely going to be fun.  I feel like our offense is going to match up against their defense pretty well.  Hopefully it's just like last year.  That's what everybody is thinking, hopefully.  We'll just see how it goes, but we're definitely extremely excited.
Q. How does your role change this year?  Did you envision at the beginning of the year that your season would go like it has, or has this been a little bit of let's see how far we can push Jordan Leggett and see what he can do?
JORDAN LEGGETT: I had no idea that I'd be sitting as I am right now, just being All-ACC and stuff like that.  I had no idea I'd be here, but I guess that just came with staying healthy throughout the whole season this year and just coaches putting a lot more trust in me, just working in the off-season and stuff like that.  I feel like the coaches have really developed trust in me, and it's really shown through all my games that I've played, just with them giving me the rock and stuff like that.
Q. What do you see in Oklahoma's defense and what they do?
JORDAN LEGGETT: They play a 3-4, so pretty much they're designed to play two gap on the defensive line, stop the run.  All their linebackers are very athletic.  They run very well side to side.  I feel like they're going to try to stop the run early on, but since we have so many skill players out there that are phenomenal athletes, I feel like they're going to have to rethink how they play defense against us, just because we're so dual threat and multidimensional.  They're going to have to really game plan to see which way they want to play us.
Q. They were saying they don't envision changing their game plan much.  They're kind of doing the same thing.  Do you think from what you see on tape that you can explain?
JORDAN LEGGETT: There's definitely a lot of things.  Every team has tendencies and stuff like that.  They bring a lot of blitz, but with that comes with just knowledge, offensive line being on the same page, picking them up, and whenever that happens, that means we've got to hit them deep or something like that.  It will definitely be fun to watch, but just having Deshaun back there, I feel like we'll be able to pick him apart the whole game, just tell when they're coming on the blitz or anything like that.  But the offensive line hasn't given up a sack in I think the last five games in a row, so I don't think it's going to change.
Q. Is this going to be one of the better pass rushing teams you've seen this year?
JORDAN LEGGETT: I wouldn't even say that, just with striker being an outside linebacker.  I feel like both of our tackles are going to be ready for him.  I mean, it's just a mismatch problem, with him being so big.  He can try to run around them, but just having two athletic tackles like that might be a little harder for him.  Striker is definitely a phenomenal athlete.  It's going to be fun to play against him, and he has a pretty badass name, Striker, too.  It will definitely be fun.  We've game planned all week for it.  We've got ready for all the blitzes that he's going to run.  It'll be fun to see.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT