BIG EAST CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 10, 2009
John Thompson III
Chris Wright
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 St. John's 64
  Georgetown  59 
  
 COACH JOHN THOMPSON, III: Questions? I don't know.  
 JOHN PAQUETTE: Questions, please.  
  
  Q. Coach, this team has had to take a lot of tough lessons for a young group of people. Can you just talk about where this one ranks?  
 COACH JOHN THOMPSON, III: I don't know. I don't know where this one ranks. It's disappointing.   
  
  Q. Coach, last week you said last week's loss against St. John's was the most disappointing loss in your career.  
 COACH JOHN THOMPSON, III: I don't think I said that. Barker asked me was it amongst and he rattled off a couple (losses). I said yeah, okay. I don't think I said it was amongst the most disappointing losses in my career. Maybe I'm wrong but I don't think I did.  
  
  Q. How does this one rank?  
 COACH JOHN THOMPSON, III: I'll take some time to digest it before I figure it out. It's extremely disappointing. They all are. I can't think of any loss, "Oh, that's a good, happy loss."  
This is the Big East tournament. When you lose in this tournament, it's tough.  
  
  Q. Coach, when you guys -- they were up nine and you went up three. At that point do you think "we made a push"?  
 COACH JOHN THOMPSON, III: I did. I felt we were in a pretty good position, I thought we were in a pretty good mindset but coming down the stretch, you know, we didn't make the play -- we didn't make plays. We didn't execute at the offensive end or the defensive end and they did.   
 I got to give them credit. It felt like they had three, four 3-point plays in a row. There were several possessions we played decent defense for 30 seconds and then all of a sudden the last five, four, three seconds they get a foul, they get a layup; that happens. That happens as we focus on execution. That's a tribute to them. That's good focus and execution on their part.  
  
  Q. Talk about the physical nature of that game, it was really physical, particularly the first half. The second half calmed down. Everybody is obviously in foul trouble. Is it harder to get a flow in a game like that?  
 COACH JOHN THOMPSON, III: No, not necessarily. I don't think that the physical nature of the game took away from any kind of flow. I mean -- most games in this league are extremely physical. It was clear from the beginning that the refs were going to let us play and weren't going to call it, with the exception of hand-checking away from the basket they weren't going to call too much going to the rims. That was equal. They did the same thing at both ends of the court.  
 JOHN PAQUETTE: Do we have any questions for the players? Anymore questions for Georgetown? Go ahead.  
  
  Q. Chris (Wright), can you just talk about the challenge, keeping your heads up? It seemed like over the course of the last few games the confidence has been fragile at best for this team.   
 CHRIS WRIGHT: I don't understand your question. What is your question? I mean -- I understand you're saying that our confidence -- what is the question?  
  
  Q. Do you agree? Does it feel like this team has struggled to find its rhythm, to find its signature way to play down the stretch?  
 COACH JOHN THOMPSON, III: Let me jump in, then he can answer however he wants to. I think that's two different things. In spite of everything we've gone through this year, I don't think this group has not been confident.   
 We still struggled but I don't think we've ever shown up not confident that we can go out and play well and get a win. So I don't think it's struggled -- I don't think we've had up and downs in terms of our confidence. We haven't gotten wins consistently. We haven't, necessarily, executed as we should have but I don't think confidence is part of the equation.  
  
  Q. Chris, that last play with 15 seconds, down three, what was the design, what did you see from St. John's?   
 CHRIS WRIGHT: Well, I think we were a little confused when we came out because somebody -- one of our teammates was supposed to be at center. We had so many perimeter guys we got confused. At that time we had to go to another option. I don't think -- we knew they were going to come out man-to-man. We didn't set-up in the right spots and unfortunately we didn't make a play.  
 JOHN PAQUETTE: Are there anymore questions? Georgetown, thank you.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT