NHL ENTRY DRAFT
June 21, 1997
Jean Francois Damphousse
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








That's one of my favorite goal tenders in the national leagues.  So I'm very anxious to meet him and go to the training camp next year. 

Right now?  Yeah, I'm very nervous.  I was in the beginning of the draft, but now I'm pretty comfortable.  I didn't know that the Devils were going to draft me, so I'm very happy to go with the Devils.

I meet around ten teams yesterday, and I meet the Devils yesterday afternoon, so I'm very happy to go with the Devils.

I didn't know that the Devils going to draft me.  So it's big surprise for me to go with the Devils.  And I'm very happy.

What I have to work on is around the net.  I have to have a bigger shot.  And I have to be bigger too.  I weigh only 162.  I would like to be at 180 or 175.

I have a good reflex, good lateral movement, and good foot speed too.

Who?  Yeah, I don't know him personally, but -- no, no.

I don't know.  Maybe because we have a lot of good coach for the goal tenders.  I think we have to give the credit to all the best coach in the Quebec.

Oh, no, that's one of my friends.  So I'm very happy for him.  He's been drafted for the Islanders.  And he broke a new record for the National Hockey League.  He's been maybe fourth overall.  I'm very happy for him.

National  Hockey League?  It's Patrick Roy.

I love his style, his confidence.  And he's my favorite goal tender.

In the middle.  When it's the time to go to butterflies, I go in butterflies, and when it's time to stand up, I straight stand up.

No, there is no problem with that.  I have to prove next year that I'm a good goal tender.  I have to perform every year.  And that's the way I'm going to play in the National Hockey League.

I don't know, maybe in three years or four years.  I don't know. 

Yeah, that's another reason.  Because maybe this year I receive 45 shots of reach with my team, so that's a big advantage for me.

Thank you.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT