WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC POOL ONE: SAN DIEGO
March 16, 2009
Tony Gwynn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. I know you're throwing out the first ball tonight. What does that mean to you at an event like this?   
 TONY GWYNN: An honor. Anytime you get to come back to the ballpark, it's a lot of fun. This Classic is kinda on the world stage, so the fact that they asked me, I felt honored to come out here and do it. I'll try to throw a strike.   
 It's funny because when you're the guy that has to go out there, sitting at home, I could care less who is throwing the first ball. But being here myself and getting a feel for what these games are like, because I've been watching on TV and it's sometimes hard to tell, but hopefully people will watch tonight and get a taste of what these World Classic games are like.   
 For me, if I was playing, this would be something you would definitely think about, wanting to play in this thing. Seeing these countries out here, these people representing their countries, is pretty awesome. It's an honor to be able to come out here and throw out the fist pitch.   
  
  Q. You brought up an interesting point. You've been around ceremonial pitches when the guy bounces it, and you don't want to be that guy.   
 TONY GWYNN: You don't want to be that guy, and I'm a college coach. I throw B.P. a lot, and, hopefully, I can get it there.   
 But it is what it is, and it's great to come back to your home ballpark and be part of something special.   
  
  Q. Have you got to see much of the WBC?   
 TONY GWYNN: I have, it's been competitive, we have those games where the 10-run rule kicks in after Game 6 and 7, but it's interesting baseball. You know, to see these guys play on teams that I don't know that much about - the Netherlands has been one of those teams - that's been pretty impressive to me, Puerto Rico, Cuba. Mexico fell behind that last game after having a 7-run lead and came all the way back, and they are here in this round. I haven't seen Korea. I saw Japan the other night. It's been competitive.   
 The question I get back to is, are we seeing these guys at their best? Just from watching on TV, it looks like Korea and Japan have been preparing for this maybe a little bit more than the United States or the Dominican Republic, because they just seem like they're in two-months-into-the-season form. Where the United States teams, the Mexican team, the Dominican team, there were times where you could tell they get breaking balls and couldn't pull the trigger on 'em. And that usually happens early in spring training. So that's the only question I have.   
 Like I said, it's been competitive, but there really isn't a great time to have this other than now. I think you had it in November, guys are going to shut it down. You have it at the all-star break, guys aren't going to want to get hurt. This is the best time to have it, and you're going to get what you get.   
  
  Q. If you were playing in an event like this, what is the mind-set of a major league player competing in an event like this?   
 TONY GWYNN: You know, that's a good question. I've thought about that a lot. I think most guys want to win; they want to represent their country and do well. I think somewhere in the back of their mind, they don't want to get hurt, don't want to do anything that's going to jeopardize them and their career.   
 I know that's the case with the United States guys, and at the same time, they want to be there for their regular club during the season. That's the question that everybody has to ask themselves before this thing gets started. The guys who decide to play, I'm sure they're locked in and focused on what they can do to help their team win.   
 But is it more important than the regular season? I can't answer that question because I'm -- I'm sure these guys have asked themselves that, and there is no doubt in my mind they want to win. But at the same time, they want to be there for their respective clubs, too. It's a tough question. It's not just the United States, either. It's the Dominican Republic, it's Mexico, it's Puerto Rico, Japan, and maybe even Korea now. Because the game has grown globally, and those guys on those teams are going to attract attention from major league people.   
 To me, that's the ultimate part of this. As a fan, you're never going to know the exact answer. But being a former player, you kinda envision what they're thinking when they sign on the dotted line to play.   
 But like I said, it's still been competitive, but you just wonder what would happen if they played this thing at the end of May or at the end of July. Would it be different? I'm one who thinks it would. I just think it would.   
 But it is what it is, and this is when they play it. So guys are going to go out and do the best that they can.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT