U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2017
Arthur Griffin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You just destroyed the par-5s here today.  How did that happen?
ARTHUR GRIFFIN: Well, I got to say, the only one I was truly in position on was No. 8 where I made eagle.  But the first tee I blew it into the 18th fairway and then hit a hook 6-iron around the trees.  Probably should've made eagle there because I hit it to about eight feet.  Birdied there.
Let's see, what's the other par-5?
Q. 14.
ARTHUR GRIFFIN: 14, yeah.  I played a completely different game there.  Hit 2-iron, 2-iron, sand wedge, and knocked in a good putt there.
But, yeah, I was hitting my irons pretty well so I was pretty confident being able to do that.
Q. You took a strategy that's a little different than some of the other folks.  Took some irons off some of the tees.  Why is that?
ARTHUR GRIFFIN: Pretty much the comfortability factor.  You can blow it around here on some of the holes, but some of the holes you really have to play smart and take your long shots in, I guess.
Because, you know, making a bogey is a lot better than making a double if you hit it out of the play with a driver.  Luckily I was on the right of that today.  Hit some good shots and ended up birdieing some the holes I hit iron off of.
The only one that got me was No. 17.  Hit 2-iron off the tee and ended up making a 3-putt bogey, but that was about it.
Q. Kind of had a wild ride today.  A ton of birdies, an eagle, a double bogey.
ARTHUR GRIFFIN: I did.  Yeah, the bogey on 2 wasn't the worst bogey in the world, but the ones that really burned me up were 10 and 17.  Those were both 3-putts.
You know, 66 is a great round, but the two 3-putts kind of took away from what could have been.  I'm confident with where my game is at.  I just got to eliminate the little mistakes like that.
Q. Considering this is the U.S. Amateur, where would you rank this round in your career?
ARTHUR GRIFFIN: I mean, it's up there.  It's a great round; there is no doubt about it.  If someone told me I was going to shoot 66, I would've been very happy.  So it's up there in the Top 5 I would probably say just because of the magnitude of the field.
But it doesn't mean much if I don't play really tomorrow.  I am just going to keep doing what I'm doing and keep trying to play well.
Q. You played in the Amateur before.  How much has that experience helped you today?
ARTHUR GRIFFIN: Well, you know, last year I got in as an alternate, and I didn't know until the Thursday before.  So I had a day to get back from the New York State Amateur, pack up for college, drive from New York through Canada to Michigan last year.  It was just kind of a roller coaster.  It was so much fun.
But I didn't play very well.  I wasn't prepared for it.  I just think this year being a straight up qualifier gave me a lot more time to prepare and know what the competition was like.
So I came in here a lot more prepared and ready to play well.
Q. Last question:  How does someone from Lake Placid, known for its winter sports, become a golfer on the scene at the U.S. Amateur?
ARTHUR GRIFFIN: You know, I get that a lot actually.  Lake Placid is not known for its golfing, but I have it pretty good up there.  We have a bunch of courses.  Not always in the best shape, but they're my personal courses when I go out and play because no one plays golf up there.
My dad and grandpa really influenced me into golf, and having that just with them.  My dad has been a pretty good player playing in U.S. Ams and British Ams.
Yeah, that's how I came out of Lake Placid playing good golf.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT