UNIVERSITY OF OKLAHOMA FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 3, 2018
Kyler Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Oklahoma - 51, Texas Tech - 46
Q. I don't know how many times in your football experience that you've ever came right out and had two interceptions right away, so we just have to know, what were you thinking after that happened when you were walking off the sideline?
KYLER MURRAY: Well, what was I thinking?  After the first one, just don't do it again.  And then I did it again.  And then it was just, I mean, you have kind of got to know me.  I'm cool, calm, and that's the only way to be after you do something like that.  You make two mistakes like that, especially in a hostile environment like this, they're going to feed off of what had happened.  And I turned it around and I think I played pretty well from there on.  So I hold myself to a higher standard and I just got to be better.
Q. You guys were fighting back and fighting back and you come out in the second half, defense gets a three and out, you guys go and score.  It looked like you were ready to take control.  Can you talk about how frustrating it was just as a team when you have the penalties and it sets you back and you basically lose a drive there?
KYLER MURRAY: Yeah, that's something we talked about after the game.  We kind of killed ourself all night on penalties.  Obviously me turning the ball over early.  But I think that that was a chance for us to kind of really take the game over.  We drove the ball down on CeeDee and then he has two penalties.  And he's going to learn from it, he's young, and we have all been there.  So it's something that we can't do going forward just because games will be harder.  This one was tough but games will be tougher.  And then the end of November we got to win every game so we can't have those costly penalties.
Q. You had some big scrambles and some big scrambles where you threw some balls down the field, but it seemed like there were a lot of called run plays for you.  Did you feel coming into the game that that would be the case?
KYLER MURRAY: I really -- I don't feel like I ran the ball that much tonight.  I ran for what?  A hundred yards on how many attempts?  I don't know.  11?  No, it wasn't like something I was -- we came in here thinking I was going to run the ball a lot.  But we did know that we had some good looks where we get on the linebackers, have numbers in the box for me to run the ball.  So no, at the end of the day I just got to make plays with my feet when I can and today I think I did that.
Q. After the Texas Tech touchdown to cut the lead to two and then they returned the two point conversion back I saw you were talking to Parnell.  What were you saying to him after that?
KYLER MURRAY: Just trying to keep him up and just some situational football, things that in that moment that he can learn from them and that we can all learn from them.  I can't really disclose what I said to him, but that's my boy, that's my brother, so I know, we have all been there.  I threw two interceptions at the beginning of the game.  I had guys picking me up so that's all it is.
Q. Take us back to the two interceptions and what did you, you haven't been doing that.  What happened on those plays?  What did you see or not see?
KYLER MURRAY: First look, they came out doing some things that we didn't think they were going to do.  And I saw something, that kid was looking inside, I threw it, he turned outside.  It was a good play.  Bad read on my part.
Then the second one, it was just rushed.  The clock was running down, it was like one second left when I snapped it.  It just wasn't good, so.  That's all I got for you.
Q. I guess early in the game you talk about just now being rushed, just trying to get the play off.  Were you having a little trouble with the crowd noise, just kind of relaying stuff from the sidelines?
KYLER MURRAY: As far as checking out the line a little bit, it was just Coach Riley, we talked about it, getting the play calling in faster just so we could make checks if we needed to.  But, yeah, it was pretty loud, for the most part.  So it kind of affected checking a little bit.  But when the clock's running down we don't have much time to do that so we kind of have to go with it.
Q. How nice is it to have a guy like Tre where you can hand the ball off to him and he kind of takes over the game like that at the end?
KYLER MURRAY: Our O line -- the O line played great, they blocked great, took over in the second half.  Tre ran well.  I thinks it's the best he ran all season.  He was dominant all night.  So like, yeah, I'm glad they're on my team.
Q. When Lee Morris was an 11th grader he was trying to get talked out of playing wide receiver.  What he did tonight does that help solidify his decision to stay a wide receiver?
KYLER MURRAY: I didn't know that, but yeah, no, he continues to play great.  He's practicing well.  He's doing great for us.  So I'm glad he's playing well.  Happy for him.
Q. Looking forward to Bedlam next week.  Your first Bedlam as a starter.  Seems like OU has dominated this series but what makes it so special and why do you think it's such a great rivalry just in general?
KYLER MURRAY: Yeah, it is my first one to play in, obviously, I've seen it.  Last year was pretty crazy.  I think it's just an in-state rivalry like any other.  That will be fun next weekend.  I know they will come to play, we'll come to play and it will be fun.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT