RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 26, 2018
Ben Crane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Excellent start.  Let's get some comments on your round, please.  
BEN CRANE: Yeah, I came in with not a lot of expectations, but certainly I'm in that place in the FedExCup where it would be a good time to make a move.  But I played incredibly well, drove it great.  Gave myself a lot of good opportunities and was able to make some key putts to get the round going.   
The way the course is set up, I was able to take advantage of the back nine, those par-5s, and then kind of hang on on the front.  If you can shoot anything under par on the front nine, you're making up some ground.  It's kind of the tale of two nines, but thrilled with the way I played.  The golf course is in incredible shape, maybe the best I've seen it, so just excited for a good start.   
 Q.  After a couple of disappointing weeks, you come out here, go low in the opening round.  What can that do for your confidence going forward and just show you that patience pays off?  
BEN CRANE: Yeah, I did a lot of work with my coach in the off weeks, Greg Rose, and we just got some things going in the right direction.  Yeah, I just feel really good about all facets of my game, but you still just don't know.  Golf is so crazy.  The last couple weeks have been great warm-ups and I've played terrible, and it seems like when you have bad warm-ups you play well.  Golf is just crazy.   
But yeah, certainly was able to play incredible today.  Drove it great, putted really well and short gamed it well.  All in all, 6-under, I'm thrilled with that start.   
 Q.  You can't tell us you worked with your coach and not tell us what you worked on.  
BEN CRANE: Yeah, so my coach, Greg Rose, and I, we've been working on getting the club on plane on the backswing.  I've been getting a little bit out, and then really just -- I'm staying forward.  So I've been hanging back a little bit.  And I'm kind of trying to take my hands off the wheel of technique and all that.  So to work on the technique but then leave it alone and go out there and play golf and hit shots.  I'm kind of leaving the mechanics and all that to Joel Stock, my caddie, and my coach, and say, hey, this is up to you guys.  Did some good work with my short game coach, James Sieckmann, as well.  Bunkered it great today and had a good little bunker lesson yesterday.  It's those little things that click and turns it into a great round, but certainly Robert Garrigus, 9-under par, I don't know what course he was playing.  I played phenomenal, and I was like, wow, that's incredible.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT