FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 11, 2015
Ben Crane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Happy with a 66 today?
BEN CRANE:   I am.   I played extremely well today.   Someone just told me I played my middle nine holes in 7-under par.   Obviously had it going pretty low there for awhile, and all in all, just I feel like my game is going in the right direction.   Feel very comfortable on this golf course.   I love this place.   It's in perfect shape and was able to capitalize on some of those critical 10-footers today to get my round going and get myself under par and drove the ball in the rough on the laugh couple of holes there.   I'll tell you what, it's not the place to play this golf course from.   I'm excited about the way I'm playing.   Great to be back.   Pulling a lot of memories from last year.

Q.   Don't you wish you could have raised the white flag after 13?   Those last few holes, do you focus more on the first 13 or the last few, since you struggled a little bit down the stretch?
BEN CRANE:   You know, I think that certainly on the first 13 holes, there is something that I was -- exceptional golf, and that's really what I'm focusing on is this game is hard enough, you know, and things are going to happen, you don't hit in it play out here, you're going to be scrambling to make some pars.   Made a good bogey on last hole.   I was in a funky spot a couple times.   All in all, I'm just very encouraged and I'm excited to be back defending champ.

Q.   You know how tough it is to score out here, Ben.   When put up this kind of day on day one, I know you said you were happy, it's got to be exactly what you wanted through 18 holes.
BEN CRANE:   No question.   I'm in a great spot.   Certainly can't win the tournament the first day, but you can knock yourself out of it.   I kept myself in the tournament, and, you know, more importantly my game feels like it's going in the right direction, so we're in good shape.

Q.   Ben, with that said, the visualization of last year and coming into this year, how much did that play in today's first nine when you were talking about getting on top and seizing on it and trying to go wire to wire?
BEN CRANE:   That was something I'll never forget, go wire to wire, but certainly I did pull on those memories a lot today.   So many good memories of birdies I made or critical shots, and you always wonder, "Do I have what it takes?"   And so when you start winning tournaments like that, do it in that fashion, the answer is yes.   You know, it's very fun to be able to put another good round on this golf course that I love, and hopefully I'll keep it going throughout the rest of the week.

Q.   Ben, you played the last nine holes as a two-man group because DJ pulled out.   Did you get any sense from him?   Did he tell you anything as to what happened on that front-9?
BEN CRANE:   Something was wrong, you know, starting on the fourth hole.   I saw him talking to the official.   Clearly wasn't feeling good and he was very cordial and came over on nine, "Hey, man I'm not going to make it the rest of the week, good luck, keep playing well."   Very generous and kind.   Clearly he wasn't feeling good.

Q.   Ben, you got off to a really quick start today, leaking oil a little the last five holes.   Overall, what do you take away from your 66?
BEN CRANE:   I played well.   I putted well.   I had a lot of good chances and capitalized on them early, and I just -- the game is starting to come around.   I'm just encouraged, try to stay about a month out in front.   Just am I going in the right direction.   And certainly a round like today where I hit a lot of great shots, hit the ball where I was looking more often than not, I'm encouraged.

Q.   You're back in a familiar spot.   I saw the picture you tweeted.   What is it like being back where you're the champ?
BEN CRANE:   It's special.   We're a Tennessee resident.   It's great being in my home State playing here.   Lot of special memories and just relationships with some people.

Q.   Impressive start for the defending champion here in Memphis, Ben Crane.   Pretty pleased with 66?
BEN CRANE:   Yeah.   It's pretty fast on the greens.   Not extremely fast in the fairway.   If you don't hit the ball in the fairway, you don't have a chance to score.   You get a lot of flyers, lot of 9-irons that are carrying 180 yards out of that rough.   It's really hard to control.   And I putted really well today.   That's how I was able to get under par.

Q.   When you look at it, you played the back-9 first.   Really started very hot with the birdie trail on the back-9.   Here at 16, just how good were you feeling?
BEN CRANE:   Feeling really good with the putt.   I was hitting my lines, and the greens are so pure, maybe the best greens we've seen all year.   You feel like if you hit a good putt, good things are going to happen.

Q.   Five consecutive birdies from 18 through to 4.
BEN CRANE:   That was pretty fun.   Made one putt I probably shouldn't have made, and other than that, just pretty solid golf.   Played solid.   Really happy with the way I struck the ball.   And had a rough finish, but all in all, playing well and my game is coming around.

Q.   One of the practice rounds, you told me how much you kind of felt good being back here feeding off some of the vibes of last year.   Can you just press the play button there?   How much do the memories of what happened last year with the victory helped you today?
BEN CRANE:   No question they help.   So many holes that I go to and, wow, I made a critical shot here, made an awesome recovery shot there, something.   Just --
Q.Even that moment right there.
BEN CRANE:   It's been a long time.   Thanks for hanging there with me.   You're the best.   So, certainly pull on those all memories today and continue to do that all week.









END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT