FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 7, 2014
Ben Crane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   More than 24 hours between rounds with Ben Crane and you didn't forget how to play golf in that time.   You made birdie on the 1st hole.   Tell me about the start and how the conditions were for you in Round 3.  
    BEN CRANE:   Nice, relaxing afternoon.   I'm staying with Cameron Tringale and Chesson Hadley.   We've got a friend in town cooking for us staying off-site, right here.   Long day?   Perfect, we're all late, early, so we had all this time to relax.   Took a long sleep and took a nap on top of that.   So we definitely got the right wave.   
    Coming out, the greens are fast.   I got to the first hole, hit a good putt and I'm thankful it hit the hole because they rolled them between rounds but didn't have time to cut them.   They're fast.   
    The course is playing pretty windy and so conditions are tough right now.   Depending on whether this storm blows through or not, we'll, hopefully, get some holes in tonight.   If not we'll come out and play 29 holes tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Nobody went and got you so you're able to extend your lead.   Actually so for you, what is the way that you'll defend I guess a big lead with still quite a few holes to play?  
    BEN CRANE:   I think, you know, you do it shot by shot.   I think that when it comes time you're going to try to squeeze a 7-iron back there, you're going to try to hit a 8-iron in the middle of the green.   I think some of those decisions I might start aiming a little more towards the middles and stuff to try to protect a little bit.   For the most part, you got to play golf.   Try not to think about it.   
    I've growing so much.   I feel like my mental game has grown so much.   I'm excited about that.   I just want to kind of keep going with that.   My caddy, unbelievable in helping.   We're kind of having fun out there and citing a lot of Scripture.   Trying to stay at peace and get after it.  
   
 Q.   You guys deal with weather delays all the time? How do you stop it from being frustrating and affecting your rhythm?  
    BEN CRANE:   I'm in no hurry.   This is great.   You know, we're getting some pop-up showers here and there and there's a little electricity in it.   
    Hopefully we're going to get a few more holes in tonight so it's not quite as much of a marathon tomorrow.   You got to be ready.   You can't quite let down and you just play.   We're staying a few hundred yards away.   We have to wait it out and see if we can get some holes in.  
   
 Q.   You got off to a quick start with the birdie on 1.  
    BEN CRANE:   That was a fun surprise.   I hit it behind the hole there, little over 20 feet and had a big old breaker.   The greens are a little faster this afternoon.   They rolled them, didn't have time to cut them between rounds.   
    But they sent out a message to us saying that they were going to roll them and, man, they laid some grass down because it's fast.   Like putting off the hood of your car, some of the down grain spots.  
   
 Q.   7:00 a.m. tomorrow morning.  
      BEN CRANE:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   That's the challenge now, you're the leader.   Final day and they're going to cram all this in.  
    BEN CRANE:   Yeah.   I'm excited.   What an opportunity I have.   Certainly at the beginning of the week I never thought I would have been here so, you know, I'll just try to go home, relax, get some food in me and sleep as fast as I can because we got to come back out at 7:00 a.m. and restart start tomorrow.   
    Just Skype my wife and kids in Dallas, talk to them and read some Scripture, try to stay at peace, get a good night's sleep and come out tomorrow and have fun and enjoy the moment.  
   
 Q.   How was the course playing this afternoon?  
    BEN CRANE:   Yeah.   This course is in awesome shape.   The greens are -- the pin positions on the greens were fast.   So the pin positions were in some tough spots.   When the grain changes right before the hole you can get really carried away and hit some putts you think it's going to stop right by the hole and continues to run out.   
    You've got a five-footer coming back.   That was the case on the 2nd hole, the ball kept running out.   I had to make a 12-footer for par.   
    Kind of a momentum builder.   Those are kind of critical putts right now, kind of keep the momentum going.   Off to a great start and excited about it.  
   
 Q.   What was it like playing with the lead?   How long has it been since you've been maybe into the 3rd round with that kind of --  
    BEN CRANE:   I can't remember.   It's been awhile.   So, certainly thankful to be in this position and obviously love to build on it and love to start playing, you know, conservatively when the opportunity presents itself but you got to take it one shot at a time.   Got to play your shots and just keep processing the way I've been doing last few days.  
   
 Q.   What about the weather at this point?  
    BEN CRANE:   It's too early.   We got more than 27 holes left.   You know, it might be later.   I don't know.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT