ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 28, 2018
Alex Cejka
Ben Crane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  (Recording in progress.)  
BEN CRANE: It's what we do.   
 Q.  Your little dance routine...  
ALEX CEJKA: When you have hair like this you can pull it off.   
BEN CRANE: That's right.  That's why I needed the hair.   
 Q.  Talk about how that came about abut, whose idea it was.  
BEN CRANE: He said, You can pick whatever song.  I said, Well, I kind of like this song by White Snake.  Your hair, I'm going to need some hair head banging out of you.  As soon as the music turned on he started going.   
I am going, Well, if my led guitarist is going for ir, the lead singer has got to -- he's got to go.   
So I was like, I got to sell out here.  So the driver became the mic.   
ALEX CEJKA: We didn't rehearse it actually.  It was spontaneous.   
BEN CRANE: It was literally.   
 Q.  Did it off like how you planned?  
BEN CRANE: We never thought about it.   
 Q.  Were you happy with it?  
BEN CRANE: Happy with it?  I was elated.   
ALEX CEJKA: Everybody liked it on the first tee, so I think it was good.   
BEN CRANE: The guy holding the sign, he goes, That was so awesome.  Every other team has just stood there all day.  I'm like, Okay, I think we're leaders in the clubhouse right now.   
 Q.  It kind of sucked, everybody else, at least compared to your performance.  
BEN CRANE: He was cracking me up.  I mean, I just had to go.   
ALEX CEJKA: It was good.  Yeah, I had a little headache after this, but, you know...   
No, it was good.  We had fun.   
 Q.  What did you guys think of the whole idea of having music on the first tee?  
BEN CRANE: I think it's awesome.  It's super fun.  Yeah, I think guys should be required to do something.   
ALEX CEJKA: A lot of guys, like the Australians we were playing with, they were standing there like everybody else.  A little bit boring.  We're crazy characters, so for us it was normal, you know?   
Everybody is different.  Some guys might like it, some guys don't.   
 Q.  Think you might inspire others to be a little bit looser?  
BEN CRANE: I don't know, but I was super impressed, because after that Alex was first to hit, and he stepped up there and laced it right down the middle of my...   
That's so much game right there.   
We've never experienced doing something like that then stepping up to the first tee.   
ALEX CEJKA: It was cool.   
BEN CRANE: It was very cool.   
 Q.  Would you like to see them do even more, like longer music?  Smoke?  Jazz bands?  
BEN CRANE: No.  This tournament, I mean, I might take the cape off him next year before he comes out.   
Listen, it's awesome.  This tournament, Zurich has done an incredible job.  This tournament has gone from, you know, it could be lost in the schedule to now it's a lot of the guys' favorite tournament.  They get to play with their buddy, we get to have fun, there is music on the first tee, the food, the city.   
You know, it's just an awesome tournament.   
 Q.  How did this partnership come about?  
BEN CRANE: I chased him down.   
ALEX CEJKA: Couple weeks ago.  I said, Yeah, why not?  I think we were a great fit and so far we're doing well.  We're having fun.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT