FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 5, 2014
Ben Crane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   So what was working well for you today besides the putter?
    BEN CRANE:   Well, I hit a lot of quality shots to give myself some chances.   Really just working on just improving a little bit at a time.   I'm just -- I've changed my game so much this year and it's been a struggle this year.   To get a good round under my belt, feels amazing, feels like I'm doing a lot of the right things and today was one of those days where I got a couple birdies early and then I made a couple key par saves to keep the round going and kind of freed up and holed a couple. 
    Hit one close on my 17th hole and made a nice long putt on my last hole to top off one of my best round of the year.

Q.   How different were the conditions before the delay and then after?
    BEN CRANE:   Yeah.   We caught a huge break being on this side of the wave.   You know, this is ideal Memphis weather.   It's as good goose as it gets.   It was calm, barely any wind.   The greens were softened up.   We were able to attack some of the opinions.   The greens were so good here.   The Champions Bermuda, they've done a good job on this course and the staff to get the course ready. 
    Lot of people said the winter was rough on the courses around here.   The greens are unbelievable.   The nice thing about bermuda from morning to night they still roll great.

Q.   Ben, what does this do for you moving forward, lucky break or not, obviously a very good score for you?
    BEN CRANE:   Gives me confidence I'm doing the things.   Whatever happens this week I'm thrilled with this round, thrilled with the progress that we've made.   We're just trying to work a little more long-term in getting my game in shape.   I had some back trouble that really -- I didn't think I would be playing golf this year.   To be playing has been a blessing but I haven't played well at all so I'm excited to now be healthy and to start finding my game here.   I'm encouraged.

Q.   When did you encounter the back issues?
    BEN CRANE:   Towards the end of last year.   I had to withdraw from Barclays after a great first round.   I just really didn't see any hope.   I didn't see -- I didn't understand why my back was hurting so bad.   Found out it was my golf swing. 
    Terry Rawls gave me this tip, the coach and it helped my back but just taken me awhile to get my game in shape again and so -- and then I had some things that were off and on, I'm just working long-term but working with Coach Greg Rose and tighten up a few things. 
    Amazing how you tighten up one little thing here and there and like wow, this game is crazy.   So, I'm thrilled to it all together today.

Q.   You were able to finish today.   Do you think that gives you an advantage moving forward?
    BEN CRANE:   It definitely does.   The first group off, you know, was nice as we got great weather and when we turned on the back-9 we were going to play the last three holes into the wind, we played them downwind which is a nice little break.   That was helpful. 
    And we finished today which allows us to actually start playing later tomorrow.   We'll get a little extra sleep.   Be able to watch some NBA Finals tonight.   It will be good.

Q.   Ben Crane, 7-under par, 63 in the first round.   Did it all kinds of different ways, didn't you?
    BEN CRANE:   I did.   I hit some shots close, made some long putts.   I made some great par saves that kind of a mix and match today but really all -- played awesome and very encouraged.

Q.   Any particular part of your game that was the strongest?
    BEN CRANE:   Well, my putter was great today.   These greens are incredible.   Champions Bermuda.   They done a great job of getting this course ready.   It's in perfect shape. 
    So, you know, playing in the afternoon, you know, with these greens being so good you don't see the marks like you normally do on courses and so I putted extremely well today. 
    When you get a couple under par early and make a couple good saves, it's like the course opens up a little bit to you.   I was able to hit one close on my 17th hole and make a nice long one on the last.   Dinner is going to taste sweet tonight. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT