HUMANA CHALLENGE IN PARTNERSHIP WITH THE CLINTON FOUNDATION
January 17, 2014
Ben Crane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Wonder if we could start off with some general comments about the round.   You got to feel pretty good about what you did out there. 
BEN CRANE:   Yeah, I was out yesterday, I've been out here since the 27th of December.   We have been out here and we have been practicing.   I've been playing a lot and practicing with my friends over at the Madison Club, and I had some great games actually with Brendan Steel, Mickelson, Charley Hoffman, we had many great games, which helps you get ready for tournament golf. 
I've been playing really well.   So yesterday was a little frustrating.   Felt like first day back at school, 2 under par at La Quinta feels like you're getting lapped.   I come out here today, and I said you never know when you are going to run off a few birdies in a row and get right back in it.   So, today certainly I played awesome and especially the front nine, just, I kept making birdies on top of birdies.   Made a couple key par putts today. 
So anyway, today's the reason why it keeps you coming back to the golf course is you just, you live for days like today. 

Q.   You get off to a hard start like that, particularly on maybe this course, which is where you are supposed to shoot the low scores anyway, I mean, do you have to keep it going by making those pars or do you think to yourself, pedal to the metal, birdies?
BEN CRANE:   Well, I try to live a little more by what the golf course is giving me and what shot shape I'm hitting and stuff.   I had a couple pins on the back nine where it really required me to hit a right‑to‑left shot and I didn't really want to hit a lot of right‑to‑left shots, with my irons today.   And so I had to play away from some pins on the back nine. 
But, it's just sometimes all the pins fit your eye, sometimes they don't.   Front nine today just fit and just worked out and I made some great par saves early and then started to just pile the birdies on. 

Q.   Nifty little play on 18 there. 
BEN CRANE:   Yeah, that, I looked at my caddie and I go well I got three plays, I can hit a lob wedge and fly it up there, I can bump a 9‑iron into the hill here or I can putt it.   And I just felt like that I was actually trying to hit that putt about 10 feet past the hole.   So, just trying to give myself a putt at it because you can stay down there in that valley for a while and continue cup it, so anyway, I tried to play aggressively with the putter and just get it past the hole and came up just right.

Q.   You were about 25 feet off?
BEN CRANE:   No, probably more than that.   More like 15 yards.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT