NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL CHAMPIONSHIP
September 3, 2017
Ben Crane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Talk about how you played today and how you finished.  
BEN CRANE: Yeah.  Played well.  Played well all week, and you know, this is a great setup.  Web.com has done a great job, and Nationwide has got a great venue here.  This is one of the best courses I'm sure we play all year and certainly would be one of the better courses on the PGA TOUR.  It's a phenomenal golf course.  You could hold a U.S. Open on this place anytime.  Just grow the rough up another couple inches and it's all you want.  It's a great test of golf.  They did a great job.  And yeah, I played well really all week, and it was tough out there today, a little windy, and you gotta think your way around this golf course.  If you short side yourself, you're in trouble, you're making bogeys.  So it's a great test.   
 Q.  I know you don't want to be in this situation, but I think it says something that you come out and play well and put yourself in position to get your card back.  You just need maybe one more good start; right?  
BEN CRANE: Yeah.  Obviously the goal is to play as well as you can early and maybe get a little bit of rest before the fall starts is obviously ideal.  So I was able to have a good week this week and get myself off to a good start.   
So you know, maybe I can play one more and be done.  That would be ideal.  But I'm playing well, and you know, I think I always was concerned about if I lost my card, you know, would life be okay.  And coming out here playing is really good for me.  So it was really an encouraging week.  Obviously there's great players out here.  And I'm excited to have the opportunity to get my card back and if I play well in this series.  Yeah, I'm encouraged.   
 Q.  Why do you say it's good for you?  
BEN CRANE: Well, because I think sometimes it's great to face your fears.  I played on TOUR for 16 years consecutively, never lost my card.  And I think it's good to bust through that and go, it's not that big a deal.  You know what I mean?  Like the world still loves me.  My family amazing, I'm still thankful for my family and I've got great friends, and my family flew in today to watch me.  And so I mean the important things are still the most important.  It's just good to be reminded of that.  So this has been good to me, so I'm taking a lot away from it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT