JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 13, 2012
Ben Crane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Ben, let's talk about a good day again two days in a row.   On the back side, those four birdies in a row.   That kid of started things, didn't it?
BEN CRANE:   Yeah.   You know, I was struggling early.   Made a few birdies and bogeys and just felt like, Gosh, this is one of those rounds you really got to hang in there. 
Then made four birdies a little back nine which really salvaged a kind of mediocre day into a good day.   So I'm really pleased.

Q.   You're 8‑under in two days on the back nine.   You like the back nine better, don't you?
BEN CRANE:   I guess so.   I'll take that and see if I can play a little better on the front.   Hopefully I can continue that on the weekend.

Q.   What do you think of this tournament?   Kind of a family festival, isn't it? 
BEN CRANE:   This is an incredible tournament.   John Deere does such a great job.   The local community, the Quad Cities, just comes out in full force just with such great support.   We really get a better turnout on Thursday‑Friday here than at some of the really big tournaments. 
This is just a great event.   John Deere has done a great job.   The course is in great shape.   The players love coming here.   The course just fits our eye and there is a lot have variety on the holes. 
Just makes for a great week.

Q.   Excited about the weekend?
BEN CRANE:   I am.   I'm actually first alternate at the British, so hopefully I getting to over the pond as well.   Very excited about the weekend.   Just excited about the way I'm playing.   Feel like it's starting to come together. 

Q.   How about the finish?   Four of the last five holes birdies.   Talk about that stretch and finishing that way. 
BEN CRANE:   Yeah, I was playing pretty mediocre on the front side and made some birdies and some bogeys and was even par making the turn.   Just kept a good attitude and just kept referring to my Scriptures in my yardage book.   The Lord gave me a lot of peace out there and I had a lot of fun just enjoying the process of just hanging in there.   I was able to make four birdies in the last five holes and salvage what was a mediocre round into a really good round. 

Q.   You're four back at this point.   Like where you sit going into the weekend? 
BEN CRANE:   Certainly.   There's a lot of golf left.   Just thrilled with the way I'm playing.   Just to be within striking distance, you can't ask for anything more than that.

Q.   It's Friday the 13th today.   Do you have any superstitions when you're playing? 
BEN CRANE:   I don't.   The only thing I might have a superstition about is not being superstitious.   I definitely like to mix it up.   Yeah, I think God is kind of in control, so I don't really try to worry about superstitions like that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT