WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 4, 2012
Ben Crane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Ben, what a spectacular day out there for you, an eagle on the front nine at the 5th and that great save at 18.   Give us an idea of the round today.   
BEN CRANE:   Yeah, I just played solid all day.   Some of the putts that I could have lipped this way or that way lipped in, and I just felt very comfortable really and just was hitting my lines with the putter.   These greens are so good.   If you get the ball on line, you've got a great chance of making some putts.   Certainly when you're making 15 footers you don't have to really fire at the flags.   You can be a little bit more conservative.   All in all, just one of the best days I've had in a long time.   The course is playing really well.   Mentally I feel like I'm getting a little sharper.  
   
 Q.   Give us the point in the round where you said, this could be really good today, I'm starting to feel the juices go here.   
BEN CRANE:   Yeah, when I eagled the 5th hole, chipped in from the other side of the green there, just a great momentum boost, and another eagle chance two holes later.   And then birdied 8.   From that point on, I thought, gosh, I'm having a great day.   I think it just frees you up a little bit, and I was able to make some par saves and some good birdies on the back, and all in all just played solid all day.   
   
 Q.   Keeps you in contention for the weekend.   
BEN CRANE:   Yeah, you know, there's a lot of golf left, but certainly we're halfway through, and I feel like I'm playing really well.   Won't practice much this afternoon, maybe hit a couple shots but really just go tickle my kids and enjoy the rest of the day.   
   
 Q.   You had it going awfully low there at one point.   Did you ever start thinking about that magic number?  
BEN CRANE:   You know, I really didn't.   I thought, gosh, I'm having a great day.   But I actually never really thought about it.   I just thought about one shot at a time and just kept running my system, and gosh, I looked at my scorecard when I got done and I had like five threes in a row on the front side.   It helps when you chip in from 40 yards on the other side of the green for eagle.   Anyway, I hit a lot of really good shots and putted extremely well.   Before you know it, you're 5‑, 6‑, 7‑, 8‑under par, and you go, wow.   
   
 Q.   When you have a round going like that, you said you just looked at your card and thought, I made five birdies in a row.   Do you have any idea what you're doing out there, conscious of what's going on, or are you just playing?   
BEN CRANE:   You're just playing.   At the end of the day if you can make yourself shoot 62 or 64 or whatever, you can do it every day.   It's just a matter of just relaxing, trusting, and obviously your swing and your putting is in pretty good shape.   You try just to let it go and not think about it too much, not get in your own way.   But it actually doesn't feel that much different from an even‑par round.   Just a few putts drop and things seem to just open up.   My goal is to keep focusing on scripture.   I go back and forth with scripture, and that just gives me a great sense of peace.   And then playing well on top of that just made it just a special day.   
   
 Q.   As you look ahead to the weekend now, what's the focus?   Keep doing what you're doing?   Keep focusing on scripture?  
BEN CRANE:   I think I should change absolutely everything.   Mark, I think we should do a different program in the gym.   I think we should do everything completely different.   
Yeah, if I knew something else to do, I'd do it.   I'm playing with all I've got every day and we'll add them up at the end of the week, but certainly today was an exceptional day.   I'm just looking at my scorecard going, I had a lot of threes today.   One of the best rounds I've played in a long time.   Coming off of missing the cut last week, we put some time into getting ready this week, and I feel like my game is in good shape.  
   
 Q.   Can you put into words what it's like to be going out late on Saturday and in the mix and in the hunt?   
BEN CRANE:   This is an amazing golf tournament, an amazing golf course.   This is as close to a major as it gets, and it's an unbelievable field.   Obviously when you get this kind of field that shows up for a tournament, something is really special here.   Part of it has to do with the ice sculptures in player dining.   It's an unbelievable week.   Thanks to Wells Fargo for all they do for us this week.   But yeah, to be in one of the last groups certainly with a couple of my good buddies going out right behind me, I'm excited.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT