THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 12, 2011
Ben Crane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. I heard a rumor from the guys that were playing with you that they are going to call you Woody all day tomorrow. Tell everybody why? 
 BEN CRANE: Yeah, I definitely deserve the nickname Woody, because on 17, I get up there and hit a really good shot. I'm posing on this thing. Next thing I see is a ball like 50 yards in the air. I'm like, oh, man. It hit the back piece of wood back there. It's a big pylon, four inch, five, six inches wide.

 Q. Huge. 
 BEN CRANE: Huge. It goes 50 yards in the air it goes back by the back TV tower. If you've played here, you know that's 40-some yards over the green. They don't have a lot of sprinkler heads with numbers back there. 
 Anyway, I've got a bad lie. I can't imagine why I'd have a bad lie back there, good spot to come in from, the angles nice.

 Q. No downhill, the three-inch rough, easy. 
 BEN CRANE: Easy shot, and it proceeds to hit the pylon again. This time it only goes 30 feet in the air and goes to the other side of the green this time. I was fortunate enough to be able to get up-and-down on the next one and make four. 
 So that was kind of unusual. I don't think anyone in the history of the PGA TOUR has played -- you know what, in the history of this golf course -- has played the hole that way, by I choose to.

 Q. Hit the pylon not once, but twice on 17. 
 BEN CRANE: Twice. I get to 18, hit one down the right side, and I hit a 5-iron. I decide to take it over towards the pylon again. I had good luck on the pylon on the previous hole. It hits the pylon again and bounces 50 feet in the air and goes long and left at 18.

 Q. But again, dry. 
 BEN CRANE: But again, dry. My ball has a lot of marks, but it's not wet. So I'll take it, I'll take it. 
 So anyway, I had a crazy day. I played awesome, made a lot of birdies, made a lot of ten-footers. Then I get to the last hole, No. 9, I'm sitting in the middle of the fairway. I'm going to go for it. I've got 265 yards front wind, down off the right, so I've really got to step on it though. 
 So I really reared back on this one and hit about nine inches behind it. But it like got a little bit of lift still. So it went over the creek about probably a total of a 120-yard shot, going for a 280-yard shot. 
 Hits over the creek, nice soft lob, not a lot of spin on it, cutting through the wind nicely. Lands short in the fairway and the bounces up, hits a tree and then kicked it left back towards the fairway. I can't believe it was in the rough, but it was. I managed to somehow survive a par, so it was an adventuresome round. Anyway, we had a good time.

 Q. With all the wood you hit today, I'm assuming that there's going to be a large donation to the Arbor Day Foundation at some point. 
 BEN CRANE: This is true, this is correct. It is definitely a percentage-type thing. We're working on it.

 Q. After what happened on 17 and 18, you're just making the turn. 
 BEN CRANE: Yeah, lot of golf to play. And it's a crazy day, a crazy game, but I actually enjoyed myself. You know, I was kind of throwing some people some high fives on the way out to 17, tapping the wood twice. That's twice I hit that pylon. It wasn't like I hit it in one place going and then another place coming back. 
 It was like within six inches. It was probably the same dimple mark on both times. Anyway, an impressive way to play 17. 
 I know you didn't see it that way, but you can draw it up any different way and put a 4 on the scorecard. So I'll take it.

 Q. The scorecard only has numbers on it, pretty or not pretty. 
 BEN CRANE: That would have been a pretty picture. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT