WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 3, 2011
Ben Crane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. 5-under par, nice playing today. 
 BEN CRANE: Thanks. I didn't know if we were going to be playing golf at all today. But it wasn't actually quite as cold as I thought, a couple extra beanie hats and three pairs of pants and kept warm and got the putter going, which was nice, and I was able to put a good round out for the first one.

 Q. Birdies that stand out today. 
 BEN CRANE: I birdied the 1st hole, which was nice, but I putted well all day. On 17 I had about 12 feet and was able to make birdie there. So I made some key putts to kind of keep my round going. 

 Q. How cold was it out there?
 BEN CRANE: From what I was expecting it wasn't bad at all. I kept thinking the ball was going to fly a lot shorter and so we kept taking more club, and after being long the first 12 holes we started realizing, all right, the ball is still flying just fine, and I think it's a combination of desert air and just not as cold as I expected.

 Q. I guess after yesterday anything would be an improvement. 
 BEN CRANE: Oh, yeah, for sure. I was expecting the balls to go bouncing on the greens, and the greens held all day. The course is in fabulous shape.

 Q. No wind basically, right?
 BEN CRANE: Yeah, no wind, balls flying the normal distance. We didn't have much rain, so we're getting a little bit of roll in the fairway, so it's a lot of good scoring opportunities.

 Q. Only bogey on the par-5. 
 BEN CRANE: Yeah, very happy to make bogey there, drove it in the water and then over the green in four and got up-and-down for 6. So that was one of those where you walk away and go, yeah, good 6. So that was kind of keeping the momentum going as opposed to feeling like I was losing it there.

 Q. Was the crowd a little more sedate than normal for Phoenix? I guess with mittens on it's hard to really clap. 
 BEN CRANE: Yeah, right, you didn't hear the roars that you normally hear. But it was still loud on 16, and obviously it's going to get warmer this weekend and I think we're going to hear the roars again some Saturday. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT