THE BARCLAYS
August 27, 2010
Ben Crane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   BEN CRANE: Yeah, I played well all day. I hit the ball in play and gave myself some opportunities and was able to capitalize on some of them. So all in all, I had a great day.

 Q. Conditions this morning versus yesterday afternoon?
 BEN CRANE: Well, we played the ball down today, and playing the ball down we did get some mud on the ball. But it seemed to be somewhat manageable. 
 So conditions are drying up, which is nice. The warm weather is helping, and I think by the end of the week it should be a lot firmer.

 Q. Your win in San Diego allowed you to really kind of dictate the rest of your season. Are you rested, ready and all of that, because of that? Did that really help you set up for a run in the playoffs?
 BEN CRANE: This year's been completely different. We've talked differently with my team about how we're going to handle this year and it's a process, and we weren't going to worry about results as much. 
 And working that, you know, in San Diego was really just a great confirmation that we're going in the right direction. So certainly the win in San Diego was a great catapult, catalyst for the rest of the year.

 Q. But allowing you to pick your spot. --
 BEN CRANE: I felt like let's be honest and talk about the things that we can improve on and do differently this year. And so it really has been a very different year on the golf course for me.

 Q. Is that kind of rewarding?
 BEN CRANE: It is. It's fun to change things, to have great advice around you and to have it help you improve. I mean, really that's what we all want to do is just want to get a little better. And in this game, there's so many aspects to it. Certainly the mental part of the game has played such a huge role at this level, and it's hard to get the good information, I think, a lot of times. 
 I feel like I have been blessed with guys around me who give me great information and we put it in play and it's helped me improve.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT