THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 8, 2010
Ben Crane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Nice playing. Let's just get some comments on your round, please. 
 BEN CRANE: Yeah, today was kind of a little bit unusual day. The course changed quite a bit, and I got off to a consistent start, which felt good. I think I made ten straight pars, so I was feeling good about my game but wasn't able to capitalize some of the opportunities, and then things opened up on the back nine and was able to make some birdies.

 Q. You're a couple back of Westwood as of right now. Talk a little bit about tomorrow's round. 
 BEN CRANE: Yeah, I mean, I think I'll look forward to tomorrow's round like any other. I'll probably have a little more nerves going, just excited to be here. But certainly it's Mother's Day, and what a great stage this is, THE PLAYERS Championship, which is our championship, contested on one of the greatest golf courses in the world. So just thrilled to be here in this tournament and obviously to be in contention. 

 Q. Are you surprised there hasn't been any real separation? Kind of a big group right around the lead. 
 BEN CRANE: Yeah, I mean, this golf course is I would say very hard to run away on. There's just so many difficult spots and such a small margin for error. So I think that it makes for a tight field. I think it bunches us together, and it's just a small margin that will separate the top guy. 

 Q. How exciting was it to finish as well as you did? Even on 17 it wasn't a perfect tee shot, but you absolutely made the best out of that for sure. Did that give you a nice feeling walking off?
 BEN CRANE: It did. It was really nice obviously to save par there with a second putt that must have broke 20 feet. But anytime you make 3 on that hole you're doing pretty well. And then really just had three great shots on 18, which is always a fun way to finish on one of the most difficult holes we play all year. 

 Q. How are you coping with the weather?
 BEN CRANE: Yeah, it's been hot, so I've been doing everything I can to take as much nourishment as I can, whether it's been food and water or just trying to hydrate. I probably had 12 bottles of water out there today. I understand tomorrow is going to be a little cooler, which I'm looking forward to. I'm from Oregon. These Oregonians, they wither in the heat a little bit, so it'll be nice to have it cool down a little bit. 

 Q. Talk about playing on Mother's Day in the final round. What's your mom mean to your game?
 BEN CRANE: Everything. Just been a stable force in my life who has just humbly served our family, and what's maybe been the most powerful thing, she's been a praying mother who's always desired the best for me, allowed me to make some mistakes along the way but always there to encourage me and to guide me along the way, and obviously I wouldn't be here without her. She was my best friend growing up, so she means everything to me. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT