ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 27, 2017
Ben Crane
Ben Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  5-under par out there, just one bogey.  Pretty good playing.  
BEN CRANE: Yeah, actually bogeyed the first hole today, No. 1, and nice birdie on the second hole, he knocked it on with a 3-wood, and it was a great day.  We ham and egged it well and Ben drove it great and made a couple of long putts, and I made a couple of like 10-footers for birdie, kind of kept the going round, and it was a really fun day.   
 Q.  How did this pairing come about?  
BEN MARTIN: We saw each other in Jackson last fall, and Crane being a Zurich guy kind of knew what was going to happen, so he just mentioned to me, hey, you want to pair up, and I said, sure.  Got a lot of prep in.   
BEN CRANE: Yeah, we played zero practice rounds together, but we were like nervous starting out.  I'm like, man, I don't want to hit a bad -- I don't mind if you put me in a bad place, but I don't want to hit a bad shot for you.  He's like, oh, I feel the same way.  We started just relaxing.  It's actually kind of nice to take a shot off and you kind of just wander over to the side and let your pro hit you out there in the middle.  It was a fun day.  It was much more relaxing, I thought, and we had a ball.   
 Q.  Ben, you were not even born yet the last time they played a team event on the PGA TOUR.  What was it like out there?  You talked about being able to take some time off, but how much fun was it for you today?  
BEN MARTIN: It's something we've never done before, like you said.  I mean, it was really refreshing because I think sometimes -- even though it's great what we get to do, just playing golf every day, but sometimes it can get monotonous.  You just kind of do the same thing over and over every week.  I think it was a great idea for the event, get some more excitement, not only for people watching, but I think all of us are excited to play the format.  Didn't know what to expect going out there, but really I think we were -- after the first hole, first tee, got some jitters off and we relaxed and just had a fun day.   
 Q.  Any chance that the Golf Boys might expand --  
BEN CRANE: Listen, we keep playing like that, it's a guarantee.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT