BUICK OPEN
August 1, 2009
Ben Crane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You start the day early on a Saturday, wind's kind of blowing. Was this exactly the type of day you guys needed to get back in the golf tournament?  
 BEN CRANE: No question about it. You know, I mean the winds started picking up kind of on our Back 9.  
 I thought, wow, we're out here, greens are smooth, the conditions are nice, and if it gets windier, we can put ourselves right back in the tournament, considering the fact that we just made the cut by a shot, so not only are we happy to be here, but we're able to take advantage of it, it was fun.   
  
  Q. Your partner had to be fun to watch.   
 BEN CRANE: Yeah. Like he was saying, first year here, they're chanting "Freddie," now they're chatting "Woody." It's fun. He obviously wears his emotions on his sleeve, and the crowd loves that, so we had a good time today, and an awesome day.   
  
  Q. It looked like every putt you guys hit today was going to go in, and a lot of them did.   
 BEN CRANE: Yeah. And that's what you're looking for. You just love those kind of days because you know, you finish out.   
 JOHN BUSH: Good day out there. If we can just get some comments on your round.   
 BEN CRANE: Yeah. Woody and I kind of played like a team out there today. We just barely made the cut by a shot, and we were able to take advantage of the smooth greens. And we started opening up a whole area.   
 And just a fun day overall. Just played great. We both put the ball in great spots, and we were able to capitalize on some 20-footers at times.  
  
  Q. How did the wind affect you?  
 BEN CRANE: You know, the wind picked up this afternoon starting into our Back 9, so it's going to be a little tougher for the guys behind us just considering the fact that the greens are going to be a little firmer. And the trees kind of disguise the wind a little bit here, so makes for a tougher course, challenging, but also scorable, good quality shots are going to give yourself some opportunities and have some fun.   
  
  Q. Do you feel like you're back in contention or is that kind of dependent on what the guys this afternoon do?  
 BEN CRANE: We're a heck of a lot closer now than where we started today, but yeah, obviously depends on those guys at the top, but you know, we can control what we did and we went out there and shot a great score. So just very pleased with how my game came together day.   
  
  Q. When you were so close to the cut line as you were yesterday, does that weigh on you in your last few holes yesterday?  
 BEN CRANE: No question. You know, I came down the 18th hole yesterday and I drove it in the trees on the left, and I was sitting at 4-under par, so I make bogey there, I'm on an airplane back at home right now, and I was able to actually make birdie and put myself in position to have a good day today. So certainly weighs on your mind, but you know, you see guys all the time who can put themselves back in the tournament by having a great day on Saturday and pulling it off early, and I was able to do that today.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT