THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 9, 2009
Ben Crane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Can you talk about your round, please? Obviously it was a little up-and-down. 
 BEN CRANE: Yeah, I just had one of those days where it was just having trouble finding it, just wasn't very comfortable with my game. And I just kept hanging in there. 
 And that's where all the mental work helps is to just keep plugging away, you never know what's going to happen. I made a couple of good swings on 16 and made a nice putt for eagle and it changed it all around.

 Q. I asked you about working with Greg, your swing coach, mental coach, body coach, is that what this is all about?
 BEN CRANE: Yeah, I've been working with a guy in Dallas on my mental game and there's a program I'm running which has just been -- helps so much in tough times like this. 
 So Greg and I have really talked about when things aren't going well how do you get it in the hole? How do you salvage a good day? And to not get stuck on a bad shot. So I was able to do that today on the last few holes there, just to keep moving and nobody owes me anything. Sometimes you think when you're playing bad, oh, it has to turn around. Well, it doesn't have to turn around. So anyway I'm just -- that was a big step for me to be able to finish like that. 

 Q. You're almost looking at this as a victory, aren't you?
 BEN CRANE: I can honestly say I think it was more satisfying than going out there and shooting 4-under.

 Q. What was the difference in the conditions today that made scoring so much harder to come by today?
 BEN CRANE: Well, the greens are firm now. You've got to be in the fairway to be able to attack some of these pins, and even if you're in the fairway and you do attack some of them, there are some spots that are extremely firm and you can put yourself in some funny spots. If the ball bounces down into some of these low areas, it's really hard to get the ball up-and-down. It's just really difficult scoring conditions. And if they continue to dry out like this, it will be even tougher tomorrow.

 Q. It seems like they dialed it up today after two pretty -- I don't want to say easy days but --
 BEN CRANE: Yeah, they can make us shoot almost whatever they want out here. It's just such a difficult golf course. If it gets firm there's so many challenging spots and you just almost have to play defensive golf out there.

 Q. Were you almost surprised the first two days that it was scorable?
 BEN CRANE: Maybe a little bit. But we had that rain, I believe it was Wednesday night, that kind of softened up the course a little bit, which allowed us to shoot at some pins a little more than I think we normally would be able to. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT