THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 7, 2009
Ben Crane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOEL SCHUCHMANN: We'll go through your round. I believe you had nine birdies today, 22 putts. Obviously a great day and a great start for you.   
 BEN CRANE: Yeah, this is one of those golf courses where things can really get out of hand in a hurry, and it's just a difficult test of golf. So today I was able to put the ball in the right spots, give myself some opportunities and then all of a sudden some putts start going in and give you a little confidence, and it was one of those special days playing golf.  
  
  Q. Going back to the 22 putts, you've kind of made your bones as a great putter, but looking at your highlight reel, today was probably one of the better rounds of your career as far as putting I would say.   
 BEN CRANE: Yeah, definitely. This is definitely one of the better putting rounds of my career, and you know, those greens out there are immaculate. I mean, they're in perfect shape, and I played in the afternoon, so I've already had a whole wave go through there, and the greens are resilient and still just so true. I mean, you get some of those downgrain putts and it just rolls like it's on the hood of your car, just so smooth going out there. It's beautiful to watch that, these balls roll. The staff has done a great job.  
  
  Q. You've won twice on TOUR, and there's a long way to go here, but how nice would it be to have this trophy on your mantle at home?   
 BEN CRANE: This is one good round, and I'm ecstatic about that. I just want to kind of keep the same mindset and keep moving forward. I'm kind of done thinking about results and all that because really I can't control any of that. All I can do is just do my best and just run the program that I've set out to do over shots and all that. So I just need to stay away from the whole result thing and just go forward like that.   
  
  Q. What was the mindset coming into today?  
 BEN CRANE: What was the mindset? The mindset was I got a little pep talk from my instructor to play golf. Stop worrying about your swing, stop nitpicking this and that and the other. Just go play golf. Just try to get the ball here to here, give ourselves an opportunity on the green, and it just worked out. This is one of the best rounds I've played.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT