THE HONDA CLASSIC
February 23, 2017
Ben Crane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Very good day.  I know you're not happy with the bogey on the last hole, but all in all, I thought you played pretty solid.
BEN CRANE: I played awesome.  Made some key putts to kind of keep the round going but felt very comfortable out there.  Just played great all day.  So very happy with the way it went.
Q. Your driver was really good.  You were in the fairway a lot?
BEN CRANE: Yeah, that's the thing on this golf course.  It's really not a bomber's golf course because the rough is so thick, so you've really got to put the ball in play and give yourself chances, especially today because we had so much rain yesterday.  Ball-in-hand, so it's extra incentive to put the ball in play and get the ball on the greens.
It's a very challenging golf course, so greens in regulation works and the greens are pure.  So if you're putting well, you're going to make some putts, which I did today.
Q. Early tee time, so you didn't have a lot of wind; did pick up late.  You caught the good draw in that end.
BEN CRANE: No doubt.  I was four o'clock wake-up call, you never love 'em but you get to the fourth hole and you're like, there's no wind still.  So that's a nice way to start the tournament, because you most of the holes you're going to play this week are going to be in some high winds and you're going to have to shape your ball and have good control and make some critical saves.
Q. Can you talk about this morning, coming out in wet conditions and how you felt with that, considering what you had in the practice rounds?
BEN CRANE: Yeah, we knew the golf course was going to completely change from Tuesday to Thursday, and so I don't know how many inches of rain we had, but the golf course went from extremely firm to extremely soft.
Yeah, and so you've got ball-in-hand because there's a lot of mud out there, and that was the right call.  You know, the premium is really putting the ball in the fairway because if you're able to do that, the greens are going to be soft enough to take advantage of that, and the greens are so pure here; they do such a great job.  I was able to make some putts and some key putts to get my round going and keep it going.
Q. Does lunch taste worse after a bogey on the last hole?
BEN CRANE: No, I played great all day.  I look at today and I go, wow, I made some great putts.  Just played solid all day.  Misjudged the lie on the last hole, but you know, in golf, if you hit four out of five good ones, you're doing pretty good.
So all in all, I felt like I played great.  I got a couple little ball-striking things I want to tighten up.  Other than that, I'm just really pleased with the way I played.
Q. What was the highlight on the back nine?
BEN CRANE: On my second nine?  My opening nine -- I think the highlight, well, it's always good to save par on the 11th hole.  That's just a tough hole and I made about an 8-footer there for par, which felt great.  Made another 8-footer on the 13th.  But the birdie putt I made on the par 3, Bear Trap, 15 -- Tyrone went right in front of me.  He had a putt on a very similar line, about 30-footer up the hill there and I'm like wow, that looks like it's a cup and a half outside left.  I didn't know if I quite had that read.  I just put it on that line and it went in.  I'm like, assist Ty there.  That was a fun way to get it going and all in all, just played great all day.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT