THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 6, 2009
Ben Crane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Tell us about your round today. 
 BEN CRANE: Yeah, I had it going with the irons and feeling really good about my putting stroke. I was able to pour a few in, and that was good. 

 Q. Seven 1-putts on the front nine. 
 BEN CRANE: Yeah, I don't really keep track, but happened to get the right read a few times. Knocked a couple close, and then all of a sudden the hole just started to open up a little. 
 I'm excited. I've been working hard on my game, harder than ever, and I feel like it's coming around. 

 Q. Is there any difference on the golf course this morning? 
 BEN CRANE: No, not much. We played in a little calmer conditions, so we had a little advantage, but real similar. 
 It's just a hard golf course. There's really no let-up. There are a couple holes where you go, this is a birdie hole. But for the most part, just try to hang in there, because trouble is lurking around every corner. 

 Q. Your score would indicate you are not having any health problems. How are your injuries?
 BEN CRANE: I'm feeling great. This is the best I've felt in a long time. Just excited about the year really.

 Q. Your caddie reminded us this is the year anniversary of your golf bag going into the water. What you have do say about that?
 BEN CRANE: Yeah, he kept it out of the water so far this week, and it's also my birthday, 33 big ones. But having fun.

 Q. Can you tell us the story of how that happened.
 BEN CRANE: It was on No. 7, going down the left-hand side, I hit it in the left sand trap and he put the bag over there between the sand -- sorry, No. 6. He put the bag between the sand and the water, and a gust of wind came up when I was putting, and, boom, bag went in. 

 Q. Was he able to fetch it? 
 BEN CRANE: He fetched it with about 20 gallons of water in it. That was in round two last year. 

 Q. How did you end up doing? 
 BEN CRANE: I played good. Birdied the next hole and played well last year. No issues. 

 Q. Doing anything for your birthday?
 BEN CRANE: Just hang out with my family. I have my wife here, so just looking forward to spending a nice, relaxing afternoon with them. 

 Q. How did the Bear Trap treat you today? 
 BEN CRANE: Par, par, par. Three pars. It's a hard golf course and that's a very difficult stretch. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT