DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
August 31, 2008
Ben Crane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Brilliant performance out there today, nine birdies, only one bogey. I take it you're very, very pleased.   
 BEN CRANE: I am. It's one of those special days, and it's just fun to be able to start the ball on line and read it right, and then to be hitting the shots where you're looking or whatever. These are the days you look for when you play golf because it's just kind of coming out, just always the way you want it to, and just a spectacular day.  
  
  Q. Here's the strange thing: Most of the players coming in today told us that the golf course is playing harder. You opened with a 72, 65 yesterday and then today you just go out there and tear it up, so it's going the other direction for you.   
 BEN CRANE: Well, I had a hot putter today, and I kind of rode that hot putter, was able to hit some mediocre iron shots there on the back nine and capitalize on the putt, making a 20-, 25-footer here or there. So that always seems to keep your round going.   
  
  Q. Just talk a little bit about those last five or six holes, what a great finish you had coming down the stretch today.   
 BEN CRANE: Yeah, you know, I mean, I was really struggling coming into this week, missing the cut last week, and I was just having a hard time sleeping after Friday night, after the first round, just because I wanted to play well again so bad. I read this scripture in Mark 11, where it says, "Cast your burden on me and I will give you rest." It just like resonated with me and gave me so much courage and strength today. I just felt an incredible amount of peace and confidence as I played, and it was just a really fun day.   
  
  Q. Do you feel like you've got a shot at the Ryder Cup?  
 BEN CRANE: Not a shot in the world unless I have another spectacular day again tomorrow. No. I mean, that's not even -- I try to play golf, live in the present, and so today I played really well, and I'm really excited about it and hopefully I can keep it going.  
  
  Q. Do you think in general guys -- is that in the back of guys' mind because there are a half a dozen guys on the bubble there?  
 BEN CRANE: I think when that's on your mind it just cripples you. I mean, every time I've thought about trying to do something with my golf game, it's crippled me and I ended up playing really below par.  
  
  Q. You get distracted?  
 BEN CRANE: It's very distracting. So anyway, I'm trying to just let everything else melt away and just focus on the task at hand.   
  
  Q. Such a different day today with the wind and all that kind of stuff. But you were able to play like everybody else was playing the last couple days.   
 BEN CRANE: Yeah, you know, I mean, the course was certainly firmer and there were so many different gusts of wind. I think the thing that we were able to -- my caddie and I, Brett, were able to talk about is that, you know what, you might hit some great shots that might not work out at all, you might catch the wrong gust here and there or whatever, so just make the stroke, do the best you can and let the results be the results. You know, things just kind of kept going the right direction, was able to capitalize on the putts and turn it into a great day in the midst of some tougher conditions.  
  
  Q. Are you normally that patient?  
 BEN CRANE: Am I normally that patient? I pray and I work very hard in my life to be that patient, but I'm not as good as it as I was today.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT