FBR OPEN
February 3, 2008
Ben Crane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Ben, very nice playing today.   
 BEN CRANE:  I appreciate it.  Nice birdie at the last always kind of leaves a good taste in your mouth.   
  
  Q.  Makes dinner all the more tastier.   
 BEN CRANE:  It does, that's for sure.  Sometimes it goes the other way, but today I was able to get one at the last.  It was kind of an up-and-down day.  I had some moments of playing really well, and some moments of going, "What are you doing?"   
  
  Q.  But we all have that.   
 BEN CRANE:  Yeah, yeah.  But all in all, I'm just coming back from a back injury, out for six months last year, and so I'm playing well.  My game is right there, and I'm just excited about playing golf right now.   
  
  Q.  Coming from that back injury when you're out there playing, especially on a day like today when it starts out so cold and different conditions on the greens, is it hard to trust yourself after that?   
 BEN CRANE:  You know, I think sometimes it's in the back of your mind, but with the way I've been feeling the last six months or whatever, I've been feeling great.  I really feel like it's behind me, so I'm encouraged.   
  
  Q.  Tell me about playing this morning in the cold conditions.  How different were the greens out there?   
 BEN CRANE:  It was tough.  You know, the ball was flying shorter and obviously we had some breeze.  It just makes every shot coming into those greens that much more important, and we had some tough pins in places, so you just had to be careful.  You know, you could get yourself in some trouble in some collection areas and stuff that they have around the greens here.  So you've got to pick your spots where you want to be aggressive.   
  
  Q.  Who have you got in the Super Bowl?   
 BEN CRANE:  You know, I'm going to the game, actually.   
  
  Q.  Are you getting on one of the helicopters?   
 BEN CRANE:  I don't know what they've got going, but I've got a buddy who's got us going that direction.  I don't know if we have a driver or a helicopter, but we're going.  One part of me wants history, to see the Patriots, the other part of me wants to see the Giants come from nowhere, whatever, and everyone is counting them out at any moment.  Their defense is going to push right through the offensive line, so it'll be a great game to watch.   
  
  Q.  Give me your pick, though.  Who you got?   
 BEN CRANE:  To win?   
  
  Q.  To win.   
 BEN CRANE:  Patriots.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT