FBR OPEN
February 2, 2008
Ben Crane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  You're right there in contention.  Should be a pretty exciting Sunday.   
 BEN CRANE:  Yeah, I'm looking forward to it.  I'm just coming off being injured last year, so just trying to figure out the state of my game.  I've been playing well and really encouraged about the last few weeks and find myself in a good spot here.   
  
  Q.  What did you think of the crowds out there today?   
 BEN CRANE:  Pretty epic, you know.  It's an awesome place to play, like no other event in that way, and the fans were great.   
  
  Q.  Did they treat you okay at 16?   
 BEN CRANE:  Yeah, yeah.  As long as you go somewhat at the pin and hit an aggressive putt, they treat you just fine.  They want to see some action, rightfully so, and it's a fun spot.   
  
  Q.  Did you throw a ball out to the crowd?   
 BEN CRANE:  I did.  I think I bowled one down there, but there were some balls going in the crowd.  It's a happening event out there.   
  
  Q.  What's it going to take do you think to win tomorrow?   
 BEN CRANE:  You know, I'm not the guy that looks.  I don't look where I stand.  The only thing I'll really pay attention to is my caddie.  If we get to the last few holes, there's obviously some decisions to be made 15 through 18 there, so I'll just ask Brett, just ask him what we need to do, how aggressive we need to play, and I'll kind of judge off it according to what he's saying.   
  
  Q.  Are you going to be aggressive right from the start to try to get a couple quick ones, or is it just going to be --   
 BEN CRANE:  Well, I think the way I need to go out there tomorrow is just play my game and see where that finds me through the front nine, and then you kind of adjust your game accordingly after that.   
  
  Q.  It seems like it's a course where you can be aggressive.   
 BEN CRANE:  Yeah, there are some holes out there where you can definitely make birdie, and there's also some holes where you've got to be careful and you're just trying to make pars.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT