VERIZON HERITAGE
April 14, 2006
Ben Crane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TODD BUDNICK:  We welcome Ben Crane, after rounds of 67, 68.  You're sitting at 7 under through two rounds here at the Verizon Heritage.

Just talk about your day.  You didn't really get off to a great start with two bogeys in the first five holes.
BEN CRANE:  Yeah, I felt like I was struggling a little bit, but I knew I wasn't playing bad.  And just you try to stay in the present and hang in there.  And I was able to kind of turn the ship around on my back nine, the front nine, and made some nice birdies to try to get the round going again, and I was happy with how I played.
TODD BUDNICK:  Just the one top 20 in your six starts, characterize your season.  Are you happy with your game right now.
BEN CRANE:  I was out with a back injury.  I only played one round in San Diego, this is only my 5th event, technically.  So I'm just kind of getting the year going, which is a little ironic, because last year this was my first event back after a back injury.  Hopefully we've got things going in the right direction, again.  I'm easing into it and I'm excited about the way I'm playing and excited about the year.  I'm in all the majors this year, for the first time.  That will be fun.
Q.  A lot of the players have talked about you how the golf course fits their eye.  Does this one fit your eye, do you think?
BEN CRANE:  I hope they all fit my eye to a certain extent.  But my ball striking has improved over the last couple of years, so it's amazing how I was a rookie five years ago I was a little intimidated by a lot of the tee shots.  And now I'm starting get a little more comfortable with the setup and understand you have to play a certain side to the fairways, and the greens are small.  Hitting greens out here is not a bad thing.  Playing away from the pins sometimes, even giving yourself a 20 footer up the hill is the right thing to do here.  So I feel like it's getting more and more to fit my eye, I guess you could say.  Certainly a lot of great players have won here, Justin, Davis Love, Stewart.  There's a lot of great ball strikers generally prevail here.
Q.  Is that a difficult thing to kind of make that adjustment on a course like this, because most other courses, the premium is on let's get it out there 300 yards and flip a wedge in?
BEN CRANE:  I tell you what, this golf course is    there's a reason why    probably 30 percent of the guys on Tour say this is the best golf course on Tour.  No matter who is playing it, you're going to hit great shots.  You have to putt well.  You have to do everything well.  Hitting the ball a long ways doesn't always do you a lot of good on a lot of holes.

In certain players it takes the driver out of their hands which makes it a good test of golf.  I mean    so everyone is more on a level playing field, which is exciting to play a tournament like this.
Q.  Is it easier to get things turned around on the front nine or get things going on the front nine than it is the back nine?
BEN CRANE:  I feel like there's a few more birdies on the front nine, just with the par 5s.  The back nine, there's some holes, like 15, the par 5, there, where I hit a good drive there today and I've only got 245 yards to the hole.  But because of the trees overhanging, I tried to hit a 5 wood, I hit it up and over the trees, and you think it's going to be a good shot, but the trees continue so far down, that it's really a three shot hole, almost always, unless you can hit something so high up there.  That's a par 5 you're going to have to get up and down most times.  But the two par 5s on the front nine are more reachable.  I feel like there's a couple more scoring opportunities on the front.
Q.  Is there maybe a little better comfort level here this week, more relaxed atmosphere after the intensity last week?
BEN CRANE:  For sure.  Last week was my first Masters.  I've never played in a tournament that big, and the fans are amazing.  The whole experience is just phenomenal.  And my whole family was there and a lot of my friends there and stuff.  So it's a big week and it's nice to    it's a fun week, but it's also nice to come here and just relax a little bit, and just kind of get back to the way things normally are.
TODD BUDNICK:  Let's go through the card, Ben.  Bogey on 11.
BEN CRANE:  Bogey on 11.  I hit it in the right trees, tried to slice it around the trees.  Hit a tree, went dead backwards about 70 yards and I hit like a 5 iron for my next shot up on the green, 2 putted.

Anything else exciting?

Next hole I tried to hit a good shot, and a guy said it hit the tree here, and went in the water there.  I said, all right, are we having fun yet?  I think I played that hole 15 times in my career, and probably about 13 or 14 over par on it.  So I had to play off to the right.

I birdied on 6    no, on 16, there.  Yeah, I hit a good drive out of the right side and a wedge and hit it to two feet.

And then I birdied 2, 5, 6 and 9.

Birdie on 2, knocked it up close to the green, chipped up to a foot.

The next par 5, I got it on the green, and hit a good bunker shot to a couple of feet.  Tap in birdie.

The next I hit a 3 iron wood, 8 iron up the hill.  Do you guys really want to hear this stuff?  It was like when I was six years old, I'd take my parents blow by blow through the round.  They're about to fall asleep.  I always think you guys are bored stiff.

The last hole is kind of funny.  I hit a 5 wood off the tee.  I didn't hit a tree.  And I had 185 yards in it.  I don't know how that's possible, but if you hit a foot behind it    I just chunked it, it was unbelievable.  There was nothing I could do but laugh.  I hit a high 6 iron over the tree and knocked it in 20 feet and made the putt.  My caddie started laughing.  He said that is ridiculous.
Q.  Are you going to try to play it that way tomorrow?
BEN CRANE:  For some reason I like that 100 yard shot a little better than that 200 yard shot.
TODD BUDNICK:  Thank you, Ben.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT