BOB HOPE CHRYSLER CLASSIC
January 23, 2004
Ben Crane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOAN vT ALEXANDER:   Thank you for joining us just for a few minutes.  Great round, a 65 today at La Quinta Country Club, 19-under for the tournament.  Talk about today's round and heading into the weekend.

BEN CRANE:   I played really solid today.  I hit a lot of good iron shots that gave me a lot of 10-footers and I was able to capitalize on most of them.  So I played pretty steady all day.  When I missed greens, I tend to get them up-and-down so I was able to keep my round going and not lose any momentum there.  I played really well overall. 


Q. Do you think you might have kind of sneaked up on the tournament with your round today? 

BEN CRANE:   To be perfectly honest, I haven't looked at a leaderboard yet.  I don't care to, and so, to say that I'm in or out or whatever, it doesn't really matter to me.  I mean, it matters but I'm out here to do my best and that's what I want to do. I always find that if I just kind of let everything take care of itself and just play my best, the score is going to add up at the end of the week.  I don't really want to get caught up in it.  It's better for me to just live in the present and play shots the best I can.  You told me I'm 19-under and that's the only thing I really know.  I'm just going to kind of keep going forward with the same attitude. 


Q. How much time did you spend down here, and do you have any extra familiarity with any of these courses? 

BEN CRANE:   Yeah, I've been coming down here since about '95, I guess.  I grew up in Oregon, so we've come down here.  This is always the best place to work on your game when Oregon has rain for six months.  I've come down here quite a bit.  I've played these courses a fair amount.  My mother- and father-in-law live here, so it's just kind of like our second home from where we live in Dallas now. 

So I've played these courses quite a bit.  I feel very comfortable here.  I spent quite a bit of the off-season getting ready for this season here in the desert.  So I'm certainly  -- I certainly enjoy being here and it doesn't quite have the same feel as another tournament because I do feel somewhat at home.

JOAN vT ALEXANDER:   What are your mother- and father-in-law's name.

BEN CRANE:   Steve and Donna Melrose. 

JOAN vT ALEXANDER:   Let's go through your birdies and your bogey today.  You started on 10. 

BEN CRANE:   Yeah, I started on 10.  I hit a poor tee shot there, but ended up in the left rough there and I hit a really good 7-iron to about nine feet and I made it.  It was fun to get started off with a birdie. 

Then the par  5, 11, I hit a pretty good drive and I kind of pulled my second shot, but I hit a good chip to about seven feet and I made that putt, as well. 

So I kind of got things going for me. 

Then on 12, I got it up-and-down from the left rough to save par.  That helped. 

Then the par  5, I drove it kind of down the right side.  I had some trees in my way and I went to pitch out and hit a tree and came  -- hit a tree and it kind of went backwards, and so I hit a 2-iron from 240 just left of the green and got up-and-down to save par.  I was able to save par there which was good. 

The bogey, I had an easy chip from next to the green and I chipped it up to four feet and I just missed it.  So that was the only glitch. 

But I came right back with a 20-foot birdie on the next hole, which was fun to bounce back and get things going again. 

17, the par 4, I drove it in the fairway there and hit an 8-iron in there to about five feet.  So I hit a good shot in there. 

1,  I hit a long drive down the middle and had like 100 yards in there and the ball landed just short and almost went in for two and came back to about four feet and made that. 

3, the pin was all the way tucked left and I hit a nice, high dry in there to about 15 feet and made that. 

7, the pin was all the way right by the water and I hit an 8-iron from 165 out to about 15 feet left of the hole and hit a beautiful put just outside left there. 

8, one of the tougher holes to get it in play, and I hit a good tee shot with a 2-iron in the fairway and had a really good number from 155 downwind, just a perfect 9-iron.  I just hit a great shot.  It landed just short and bounced up there to about three feet. 

JOAN vT ALEXANDER:   Thank you for your time, and play well on the weekend. 



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT