VIZIO BCS NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP GAME: AUBURN v FLORIDA STATE
January 4, 2014
Reese Dismukes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   I apologize in advance if you already got this question.   I know you were here before.   I'm trying to do a very basic story on that zone‑eight play.   I'm doing it from both perspectives, how Florida State may look at it right before the snap, what you were thinking about right before the snap on that kind of basic bread and butter play that you guys seem to use a lot.   From your perspective as a leader up front, I don't know if you do make the calls up front.   I imagine you do.   Right before the snap I know y'all are looking back to the sideline to get your call.   Is there something you're keen on looking at that front, looking back at linebackers that you might exploit or is there a certain trend that you're looking for?
REESE DISMUKES:   I mean all I look at is what front they're in, and it's pretty much the same inside zone for me.   I mean that's pretty much.

Q.   Pretty multiple.   Have you found that looking at it?
REESE DISMUKES:   Yeah.   I mean they're a multiple front.   They'll run it high.   They'll run a three‑four, four‑three, four‑even front.

Q.   Are they any more multiple than what you've seen this year? 
REESE DISMUKES:   Not really.   They're a lot like Alabama and Georgia, all those defensive guys kind of come from the same background, all coming from Saban.   So they're all the same.

Q.   For you and your four teammates up front, is it just a matter of trying your best to get everyone on the same page maybe even before you get to the line of scrimmage and then work from there?
REESE DISMUKES:   Yeah.   I mean we're pretty prepared going into the game.   But I mean you know, I get everybody on the same page every play, and that's, you know, just about it.

Q.   Florida State maybe it's about reaction.   You guys maybe action?   Is that a fairway to put it?
REESE DISMUKES:   Yeah.   I mean we're going to try to take the fight to them every play.

Q.   When you look at that Florida State tape, what do you feel like the team's biggest concern is?
REESE DISMUKES:   Our team? 

Q.   Yeah. 
REESE DISMUKES:   I mean not really too sure we gotta be concerned about one thing.   They're pretty good all around. 

Q.   (No microphone) can you just talk about your winning spree right now?
REESE DISMUKES:   You know, just really trying to soak it all in.   Really once in a lifetime thing, something you dream about, playing a National Championship.   But at the same time it's a business trip and you just gotta treat it like any other game.

Q.   What's the atmosphere been like for you, being in California, things like that?
REESE DISMUKES:   I mean it's a good atmosphere, you know, kind of doing things here and there.   But at the end of the day you gotta go out every day and work on your craft and getting better at what you do.

Q.   Is being here enough for you or do you want to walk away with a win?
REESE DISMUKES:   I mean obviously I want to win every game we play.   I mean yeah, I want to win the game.

Q.   I mean the excitement of just being here, that's not enough is kind of the question. 
REESE DISMUKES:   Yeah.   I mean it's cool being here, but yeah, obviously I want to walk away with a win.

Q.   And could you ever imagine‑‑ you obviously have a state championship under your belt in high school.   Now you're playing for a National Championship.   How exciting is that in your entire football career?
REESE DISMUKES:   Pretty exciting.   I mean that's what I came to Auburn to do.   When I was getting recruited back in 2010, they won it, and obviously I came to Auburn to win a National Championship.   And I got that opportunity now, so it's a dream come true.

Q.   At what point did you know you guys would be so good at running the football?
REESE DISMUKES:   I mean really, you know, the first couple of games we were kind of finding out who we were, and you know, really, we went down to LSU, and we were down 21 nothing and really we kind of took the fight to them there in the second half and really just started running the football at will.   And you know, they were kind of the best front we'd seen at that time, and I think really after that game, you know, Coach Malzahn kind of put the game on our shoulders.   And you know, like they say, ride our backs, and I mean we just did what we do from then on out.

Q.   Can you explain what makes you guys so dominant?   Is there one aspect that makes you guys as good as you are?
REESE DISMUKES:   I mean you know, I think you gotta look at Coach Malzahn, he's an offensive genius, and he puts us in the best situations to succeed.   I mean rarely are we‑‑ have a play called where it's not going to work.   So I think when that situation happens, and you know, we run the ball the way we do.   And you know, playing as well as we do up front, you know, it's hard to stop.

Q.   I want to ask you about Greg Robinson, your line mate.   Can you describe him for us, just how good he is?
REESE DISMUKES:   I mean he's a big force for us up front.   You know, he's really dominant, and just a great all‑around player.

Q.   Reese, as the offensive line‑‑ because obviously it starts in the front. 
REESE DISMUKES:   I mean you know, obviously as an offensive lineman you'd like to run the ball, but I don't think we look at it like that.   You know, we just go out there and do what we're told, really.   We got a bunch of blue collar guys up front, and that's really how we look at it.   Obviously we take pride in the fact that we go out there and run the ball like we do.

Q.   Is there any friendly competition between the line men‑‑
REESE DISMUKES:   Yeah, yeah.   We have a knock‑down competition that's been going on all year.   So you know, this will be the last game that we have that going on.

Q.   Can you tell us who's leading?
REESE DISMUKES:   I think Greg kind of pulled away the last two games, but I think I'm only like five back, so hopefully I'll be able to catch him.

Q.   (No microphone).   I gotta ask you a question, Reese, why are the offensive line men‑‑
REESE DISMUKES:   I think it's really just kind of like that, you know, the dirty guy look that not really care about too much.   But I mean I think it's really just what we do.   I've been growing this out since LSU.   You know, you're winning, so everybody's got a little superstition in them.   So you don't want to change too much here in there.

Q.   Most offensive line men when they talk about superstitions and I was‑‑ so I can identify.   We used to do stuff like not changing underwear.   Now it's just facial hair?
REESE DISMUKES:   I mean you got things here and there.   I always tape my left foot first and my left hand first as well.   But I mean just things here and there.   You know, I wear the same underwear sometimes, but I always wash my underwear.   I mean you know.   (Laughs).   It's 2014, so I mean you got good washing machines. 
I mean just little stuff here and there.   I mean everybody's got their stuff they do.

Q.   I guess I was just properly chastised.   When you take a look at the defense Florida State presents, what do you see from your position, because it's all going to fill in through you. 
REESE DISMUKES:   I mean they're a good defensive front, really a good all‑around defense, and you know, we're going to have to play our best game to win the football game.   And they don't present too many difficult fronts or looks or anything like that, so we'll be all on the same page as far as that's concerned.

Q.   When you take a look at the offense that coach has put together for you guys, as simplistic as it is, it has a layer of complexity to it.   From your assignment side of things, is that complexity there too as well?
REESE DISMUKES:   Not really too much with us.   We're, you know, pretty simple up front as far as the inside zone and the gap scheme, not really too difficult up front.

Q.   Now, you're sitting here on one of the podiums and getting to survey this entire situation.   What's your first impression?
REESE DISMUKES:   I mean you know, just blessed to be in this situation, and really gotta thank my parents and everyone that's helped me to get to this situation in life.   You know, just blessed to be here.

Q.   Can you talk to me for a second about Jay Prosch.   He didn't start his first year here at Auburn.   What does he bring to the team and how important is he to have around?
REESE DISMUKES:   He's like glue.   You can't really say enough about the guy, with what he's been through in life and that kind of thing.   You know, just a tough, all‑around guy.   I mean you look at him and he's a piece of work, almost like a statue, as I said earlier this week, but I mean he‑‑ you know, he's a great guy and a great football player, but even a better person.

Q.   What would you say is your favorite thing about him as a teammate or just a friend?
REESE DISMUKES:   We're pretty good friends.   Sometimes he messes with me that we're not friends, but we really are.   I mean I don't know.   He's just great all around.   I don't think there's one side of him that's better than the other.

Q.   I know you guys are all focused on this game.   Can you allow yourself to look back and think, wow, this has been a crazy ride?
REESE DISMUKES:   I mean you kind of look at it here and there, but I think Coach Malzahn has done a great job letting the team know that when this is all done and this game is over, we can look back and pat ourselves on the back after that and look at all we've done.   But as far as right now, we gotta keep our minds focused and this is game week and you know, you gotta soak all this in, but you gotta get ready for a big game.

Q.   Is it tangible what happened last year or was it just a matter of it just snowballed, something happened and it get worse and worse?
REESE DISMUKES:   Yeah.   Last year was like a domino effect.   I don't think‑‑ you know, it was like one thing led to another, like one domino knocking down the other domino.   I mean one thing bad would happen and the next thing bad would happen.   And that's pretty much how it went, and once it got rolling, it was hard to stop them from falling.

Q.   It's almost like this year it's the completely opposite, one good thing happened, then another?
REESE DISMUKES:   Yeah.   I mean exactly.   I don't think you can put it any other way.

Q.   Reese, you guys ran the ball extremely well against Alabama.   They're the No. 1 rush defense, and you did well against Missouri.   What's the secret to your guys' success running the ball?
REESE DISMUKES:   I think so we just stick to it.   Might not be working all the time, but as far as running the football, we're going to stick to it and that's our guns and we're gone stick to 'em.

Q.   Before the Alabama game, even before the Missouri game, seems like all these people were saying Auburn is going to have to stop running the football at some point.   You guys kept on doing it.   Missouri you were shattering records.   Do you guys feed off of that?
REESE DISMUKES:   Yeah.   Kind of like going to Alabama they said we were lucky and we rushed for like 300 something on Georgia, and then same with Alabama going into Missouri, they said we were lucky, and we rushed for 296 on them.   So I mean people can say what they want to say, and we're gonna have to throw the ball at some point, but we're going to run the ball, too.   So it's pretty much as simple as that.   We're going to run the ball but we're going to have to throw it too at some time, and whenever that time comes we'll be ready to throw the ball.

Q.   How do you explain the‑‑ when you look back on the season, there's never been a season where a team won games the way you guys won games.   One after the other.   Is it a compliment to you or do you guys look at it when someone brings up miracles or they say you're lucky?
REESE DISMUKES:   I mean I don't really look at it as luck.   You know, Georgia we rushed for, what, 300 plus and lost focus in the fourth quarter.   The game should have never came down to that situation, but you know, it did and we won the game.   Bottom line.   And Alabama, you know, they couldn't stop us on offense.   Rushed for 296 on them.   So I don't really think they wanted to go to over time.   But who knows.

Q.   I think it's kind of cool. 
REESE DISMUKES:   Yeah, I mean exactly.   You know, for them to happen the way they did, you know, that's just sugar on top of the cake.   You know what I'm saying.

Q.   Well, no one will ever forget this team that returned the field goal against Alabama.   What's wrong with a little magic?
REESE DISMUKES:   Yeah.   Exactly.   I mean people are going to say what they want to say and like when Coach Malzahn came in, it's a new day and we wanted to have the biggest turn around in college football, and I think we've done that this far.

Q.   So was the National Championship always the goal from the beginning of the season?
REESE DISMUKES:   I mean the goal from the beginning of the season was to have the biggest turn around in college football, and to go out and practice each and every day and get better one day at a time.   That was the only goal that we had.

Q.   When did the National Championship start to‑‑
REESE DISMUKES:   Well, I don't think we really looked at it as a National Championship.   You know, I think going into Georgia, you know, we had championship on our mind, but it was to get to the SEC championship.   You know, to take it one game at a time and put ourselves in a situation to be in the running to get to a championship.   And that was really, you know, I think when it kind of sank in.

Q.   Where do you feel the identity of this Auburn team is?
REESE DISMUKES:   I mean I think we're a physical team and we got fight and we got heart.   And you know, we're going to play till the last second of the game, win or lose or draw.

Q.   Do you feel like your tough SEC regular season schedule has prepared you for an opponent like Florida State?
REESE DISMUKES:   Yeah.   I mean we had as tough a schedule as anyone does in this league, and we've had some close battles and won games the way we've won them, been in a lot of situations, and I think that prepares you for anything.

Q.   I know you may be tired of hearing it.   How do you feel that luck has played into your season?
REESE DISMUKES:   I mean people are going to say what they want to say, but at the end of the day we've worked our butts off as a team, and however you win games, all that matters is if you get a W. 

Q.   What are the challenges of Florida State when they put pressure on you guys?
REESE DISMUKES:   They're a pretty versatile stuff.   They do a lot of stuff and they'll present a lot of different looks at you, but we'll be prepared for that.
I mean they're a good defense all the way around, so we're going to have to play our best game to win the football game.

Q.   What was kind of the mood of the team and how was he embraced initially?   Were you guys wary?
REESE DISMUKES:   When he came in, I think everybody was excited, you know, having a new face and that kind of thing, and we all kind of knew him, you know, because he was a coordinator back in the day, but we didn't really know how he was going to run things.
And he really came in and put his foot down, and there wasn't a lot of gray area, you know.   We knew all what was going on and that kind of thing, and I think that was great.   And I think everyone was just excited to get to work and just eager to start the new face of the program and get the Auburn edge back.

Q.   Different as a head coach than he was as a coordinator?
REESE DISMUKES:   Yeah, for sure.

Q.   How?   How was he different?
REESE DISMUKES:   I mean as far as an offensive standpoint, I think we go a lot faster now.   But I mean he's still the same offensive guy that he was back when he was a coordinator, but I mean we just didn't see his administrative side back when he was a coordinator as we see now, and that's really the only difference.

Q.   Did he surprise you?   I mean you were accustomed I guess in meetings and stuff of him being one way as a coordinator?   Is it completely different as a head coach?
REESE DISMUKES:   Not really.   Still the same.   You just see like the head coach side of him, but it wasn't really too different.

Q.   Kind of worked out pretty well?
REESE DISMUKES:   Yeah, yeah, it has.   He's a great guy and a great head coach.

Q.   All the talk (no microphone)?
REESE DISMUKES:   Yeah.   I mean they're a great defense, and they do a great job of what they do and the scheme they run, and we're going to have to play our best game to win, and I think they're a good all‑around football team.

Q.   As far as the team what concerns you guys the most?
REESE DISMUKES:   I mean I don't know that any of it like concerns us.   I mean they're just a great all‑around front.   They do a lot of different stuff that we've seen in the past, and as far as Alabama and Georgia go, they're about the same scheme as both those teams.   So I mean nothing really concerns us much.   You know, they're just a great all‑around team.   We're going to have to play a good game to win.

Q.   You centers kind of seem like the coolest guys in the room.   Do you feel like you're like the anchor in all this madness?
REESE DISMUKES:   I mean I kind of like to look at it that way.   You know, you gotta be‑‑ you know, your calmness out there because you control everything, and you know, when things aren't going well or things are going great, people are going to be looking at you to see how you're reacting and that's kind of how I look at it.

Q.   (No microphone) and they think there's a tendency to think that it's a principal of deception and not maybe power.   As an offensive lineman, how much of this offense is based on similar concepts?   Obviously it's a very different offense, but it's still very much a power offense. 
REESE DISMUKES:   Yeah.   I mean I think if you turn on the film you'll see we're going to bring it right at you, and I mean we're running zone schemes and gap schemes.   I mean and it's the same thing we ran in tight bunches last year.   I mean we'll spread you out but we're going to run it right down your throat.

Q.   What do you think are the differences between running mostly zone one?
REESE DISMUKES:   Yeah.   I mean we do both.   I mean inside zone and gap scheme. 

Q.   Give me a little example.   What does the specific fact that maybe you're spread out wider, how does that change?
REESE DISMUKES:   I mean really doesn't change much for us.   I mean just matters how many they put in the box.   I mean are they going to spread out with you or are they going to load the box down, put seven or eight in the box.   That's really the big thing with us. 
So I mean it really doesn't change too much, just how many we gotta try to block that are in the box.

Q.   Do you feel like you need to be any more‑‑ maybe just tempo.   Streamline?
REESE DISMUKES:   Yeah, I mean at the pace that we go, you gotta be in shape.   The way Coach Malzahn likes to do things is fast, and he even talks fast, you know.   I mean but we like to go fast, and that's what we're going to do.   We're going to pace and try to wear you down as a defense, and that's just what we do.

Q.   And offensive line men when they switch over to an up‑tempo offense there's always stories about how yeah, I lost 15 pounds and stuff like that.   Were those stories on your offensive line where, hey, because of the pace you guys were going you had to slim down a little?
REESE DISMUKES:   I don't think anyone really had to slim down.   We had pretty lean guys.   Maybe some of them got a little chubby there for a minute but I don't think anyone really had to slim down too much.   I mean obviously with Coach Russell and our strengths staff, they did a great job of preparing us in the weight room.   We never stopped moving in there.   So it's kind of similar to that stand point.   So we move fast in everything we do, whether we're weight training or anything like that.   So that kind of helps you get prepared for on the field.

Q.   Can you talk about your preparation for out here in California?
REESE DISMUKES:   I mean you know, Coach Malzahn has done a great job of keeping it similar to a regular game week, and I mean with all this stuff you gotta do out here, I mean you know, you gotta go out to practice and focus and look at it as any other game, obviously a big game.   But I mean we just kind of took it as a regular game.   I mean obviously it's not a regular game.   It's the National Championship.   But you gotta prepare as you would whether you're playing Western Carolina or Alabama or any other team like that.   It's just, you know, that's how you gotta prepare.

Q.   And have there been many distractions?   I know you guys have had some team functions and all that. 
REESE DISMUKES:   Not really.   I mean as far as distractions, we come to events like this and Lowery's Beef Bowl and that kind of thing.   But once we've gone out to practice, we've been focused and working on what we do.

Q.   How do you scout team the Florida State defense?
REESE DISMUKES:   How many I scouting them? 

Q.   How do you scout team them?   How do you prepare for them in practice?
REESE DISMUKES:   Just do what they do.   We got good scout teams.   They've done a great job for us all year.   Huge part to our success is our scout teams, and you know, they go out there and give us the looks that Florida State gives us.

Q.   How excited are you to get back to game time after having a month off?
REESE DISMUKES:   Yeah.   Coach Malzahn has done a great job of keeping us in shape and keeping it simple and keeping the regular routine.   We haven't really broke off or done anything extraordinary or different.   So you know, I think we'll be ready when Monday rolls around.

Q.   When you compare this season along with 2010 remembering how the Auburn nation is back and just everybody behind you, can you still make that comparison now you guys are at this point to the 2010 season and what are the similarities?
REESE DISMUKES:   I think you can make some comparisons here and there, but I think this team's a lot different than 2010, and I mean I think we're just all around a different team.   But as far as the organization and the people surrounding, I'm sure they feel a lot of the same way, but I think it's a lot more special when you go from 3 and 9 to being in this situation right here.

Q.   And you guys got a win you were excited to call your brother and rub it in his face a little bit.   Now you guys are here at a National Championship game.   What is that like for you?   Is there a little bit of tension with the family?
REESE DISMUKES:   No.   Me and my brother, him and his family are flying out here today.   I don't think he's ever been so excited to go to an Auburn game.   He might actually wear orange and blue this time.   But we'll see.   But there's no tension there.

Q.   Are you guys concerned with the one‑month layoff.   Obviously Florida State passing oriented offense.   Are you guys the least bit concerned about the long layoff?
REESE DISMUKES:   Like I said, not really.   Coach Malzahn has done a great job of keeping it basic and keep doing what we're doing.   We haven't done anything different or added anything in or anything like that.   We just kind of stuck to what we do.

Q.   More game simulations the last three weeks in practice or has it pretty much been the same routine?
REESE DISMUKES:   It's been the same routine that we've been doing since whenever we played our first game, August 31st.   Same game routine.

Q.   How excited are you to see Tre Mason have the success that he's had?
REESE DISMUKES:   Pretty excited.   I mean I like to think that we've helped him do that.   So I mean I think it's exciting for, you know, me and the rest of the guys, and you know, even the wide receivers, they block a little bit, too. 

Q.   And just talk about his character and his personality and what he's done for the team on and off the field. 
REESE DISMUKES:   You know, he's a great guy and with all the accolades that have come his way, he's really stayed the same guy and been out there working with the rest of our guys to reach our ultimate goal, and that's to win this football game.

Q.   If you can pick (no microphone) just motivation.   A speaker, video.   Whatever it was that brought this team together.   What would that be? 
REESE DISMUKES:   Yeah.   I mean I think Cam came and talked to us one time or something like that.

Q.   When was that?
REESE DISMUKES:   I think maybe back in the spring.   I mean I think that's one thing you can look at, but I think really overall, with the whole team I think it was the fact that we need to get our edge back, and that was the big thing in the spring, the motto that we need our physical edge back and that we weren't playing Auburn football, and kind of letting the past down, what the program was built on.   I think that kind of hit the team right there, and Coach Malzahn, that was his big thing.   And we went out there in the spring and we got after it.   And we banged each and every day.   We really didn't take anything off of it, and really just kind of went out there and got after it every day and tried to get our edge back.

Q.   The first workout with the strength coach, how would you describe like the reaction afterwards?
REESE DISMUKES:   I mean you know, I'd describe it as exciting, you know.   I think we went out there and he got after us pretty good, and we were hurting after, but I think, you know, it felt good, you know, that we did it.   It was a little competition here and there.   And we just‑‑ it was fun.   It wasn't like the old days when we were in the weight room and it was like a struggle to get in there and, you know, it was a hassle like awe, we gotta go work out.   You know, it's supposed to be fun going in there and getting better and working with your teammates.   It's not supposed to be, awe, here we go again, that kind of thing.   But you know, it's fun and exciting and I think that's a huge part of why we're successful.

Q.   What do you think of the bell?
REESE DISMUKES:   Yeah.   I mean the bell is‑‑ that's kind of what this team is built on really.

Q.   Why do you say that?
REESE DISMUKES:   I mean when someone rings the bell, the way we look at it is that's our team getting better, and they're going to help‑‑ they're helping‑‑ they're going up on their numbers, so that's helping the whole team be stronger and more physical.

Q.   Coach brought that in. 
REESE DISMUKES:   Yeah, yeah.   Coach Russell, the strength coach brought that bell in.   Yes, sir.

Q.   Reese, we're here in preparation for the big game.   What are your thoughts and how are you feeling?
REESE DISMUKES:   Feel pretty good.   You know, just soaking it all in and just getting prepared to go out there and play our best game.

Q.   Describe your emotions once you step out on the field and you're there in the moment. 
REESE DISMUKES:   I mean, well, hopefully we'll get to go over to the field on Sunday, but I mean once we get on that field, it's who's the best team and it will be between the 100 by 53 and it's a regular football game.

Q.   Talk about what it's going to take for you guys to come out victorious and to fulfill your destiny. 
REESE DISMUKES:   I mean we're going to have to play our best football.   They're a really good football team and we're going to have to play our best to win.

Q.   Their run game has been crucial to this team's success this season.   What's your focus going to be?
REESE DISMUKES:   Obviously we're going to stick to our guns.   We've been running the football all year and we're going to keep doing what we do.

Q.   What's the value of someone like Tre Mason to really playoff. 
REESE DISMUKES:   I mean he's a great back and Coach Malzahn putts him and the rest of our team in the right situations at the right time, and I think him and nick really feed off each other and do a great job of that.

Q.   He's close to breaking one of the school's records.   When I asked him about it, he was almost raving about his line men.   How do you guys playoff of each other?
REESE DISMUKES:   I mean I think, you know, really just this whole team, our motto has been together.   And really, we've just done everything together, and we couldn't do it without him, and I feel like he couldn't do it without us.   And the receivers as well, they do a great job blocking on the edge, and really this is a team effort.

Q.   This season half that LSU game did you ever think that you'd be in this position heading into the National Championship game?
REESE DISMUKES:   I really didn't try and think that far ahead.   Obviously it would like, man, I want to be in Pasadena, but I mean really, we just took it one day at a time, one practice at a time, one game at a time, just tried to get better each and every day at everything we do.

Q.   Heading into this matchup, you're technically the underdog, so does that give you a little extra fire?   How does that change your approach to the game?
REESE DISMUKES:   I mean we've been the underdog in almost every game we've played, I think, so that really doesn't change anything.   So I mean we just look at it as any other game.   Obviously it's the National Championship, and we're going to have to play our best football to win the game.

Q.   Reese, you've come from a high school program that's won three out of the last four or five.   They tied for one of them.   Just talk about what a championship experience at an early age can mean to a big stage like this. 
REESE DISMUKES:   Yeah.   I mean playing in the state championship back in 2010, I think my first game in high school‑‑ or last game in high school was in Jordan‑Hare.   My first game in college was in Jordan‑Hare, so that was pretty cool.   Really, I think my high school coach, Bryant Vincent, he's now at South.   And he did a great job of just teaching us experience that we had to work really hard and kind of blue‑collar guys, go out there and work hard each and every day.   And that's how you gotta be successful on the football field.

Q.   I would ask you what it's like to see Nick Marshall's wizardry in back field in action, but you don't see it because you're headed in the other direction.   You see it on film, huh? 
REESE DISMUKES:   Yeah.   Those guys do a great job what Coach Malzahn asks them to do.   I mean on film they look fast.

Q.   When this is all over, 10 or 20 years down the road like all the other former Auburn and Alabama players in the state you'll look back at it as something pretty special because of the turn around here, how frustrating it must have been to not win a conference game last year and maybe that was a driving force to what has happened this year. 
REESE DISMUKES:   Yeah.   I mean you know, I think they always say, you know, it's not how hard you fall.   It's how hard you get up.   And I mean that's really how we looked at it, just kind of took it one game at a time this year, and you know, that's not the way Auburn‑‑ that's not the way the program is is to not win any SEC games and be 3 and 9.   That's a disgrace.   And we wanted to get our edge back and back to playing Auburn football.

Q.   Your brother played at Alabama. 
REESE DISMUKES:   Yes, sir.

Q.   You, of course, Auburn.   State owns four crystal balls right now, wanting to get a fifth.   It's pretty amazing what the A state has done. 
REESE DISMUKES:   Yeah.   I think that'll go down in history.   I don't think that'll ever be done‑‑ maybe in Florida with all those teams they got.   But I mean as far as, you know, to Top 10 programs like we got in our state, I think it's pretty special.

Q.   And your family and friends, what kind of contingency do you have coming out here, how many folks?
REESE DISMUKES:   I got a lot of people.   My girlfriend is coming and my mom and dad, both my brothers or all three of my brothers, my sister.   I got a lot of people coming out.

Q.   It will be special. 
REESE DISMUKES:   Yeah.   It will be.   Yeah.   Thanks.   War Eagle.

Q.   (No microphone)?
REESE DISMUKES:   Not really too big for me.   I played in it back in 2011, so really didn't take me long at all.

Q.   (No microphone). 
REESE DISMUKES:   Yeah.   I mean you know, the tempo can really take advantage of people.   So I mean, you know, as far as I'm concerned, I mean it takes us a little while to get in shape for it.   But you know, our strength staff does a great job getting us prepared for that.

Q.   Reese, can you talk about your matchup with No. 8, Timmy Jernigan?   What do you see on tape with Timmy?
REESE DISMUKES:   He's a great player.   Great all‑around player, great against the run, great against the pass.   Not really any deficiencies in his game.   He's really strong.   I'm going to have to play my best game to win.   Should be a pretty good matchup.

Q.   You talk about the circus atmosphere.   As a lineman, I've heard a lot out there, the linemen are like, let's get this going.   The skill players are like, oh, yeah.   What's it like?
REESE DISMUKES:   I mean it's fun.   You just gotta soak it all in.   You might never get in this situation again, and you'll remember this the rest of your life.   You just gotta enjoy it.   This is all part of the game.

Q.   Take us through the end of the Georgia game, the end of the Alabama game when you're there.   Watching it's amazing.   What's it like being a part of that team?
REESE DISMUKES:   Georgia, fourth and 18, that's not a good situation to be in.   I was just praying, please, God, let something good happen.   And you know, it happened.   Ricardo‑‑ they tipped the pass and Ricardo caught it and ran it in.   It was like, oh, my God.   That was nuts. 
The Alabama game I was actually at the 50‑yard line getting ready for the coin toss at overtime, and here comes Chris running by me.   I looked and I'm like, that's not good.   And I see him running by me and I was like, wow, I was trying to keep everyone back because I didn't want to get a flag or anything.   And it was just history from there.   The fans started rushing the field and everything like that.

Q.   That is great.   Can you talk about how this team has grown together since Gus Malzahn has been head coach. 
REESE DISMUKES:   Yeah.   He came in and started off with, you know, it's a new day and really gave everyone a fresh start and a clean slate.   And I mean we just got our physical edge back starting back in the spring and then going into fall camp and really just took it one game at a time and just tried to get better each and every week.

Q.   What were your first impressions of Malzahn?
REESE DISMUKES:   You know, no gray area.   You kind of knew what was going to go on and what was going to happen.

Q.   What do you think makes him such a successful coach?
REESE DISMUKES:   I mean he really doesn't change.   You know, he's kind of been the same guy since day one. 

Q.   How is he different now than when he was coordinator?
REESE DISMUKES:   I mean he just is making all the calls.   I really don't think he's too different as far as an offensive standpoint at all.   Maybe we go a little faster, but he's just the one in the team meetings telling us what we're going to do and that kind of thing, and that's just all.

Q.   What makes your rushing offense so successful?
REESE DISMUKES:   I mean you know, I think you gotta look at the coaches.   They do a great job of putting us in the right situation, and we got nick and Tre they combat each other pretty well and the receivers have done a great job blocking and us five up front have done a pretty good job this far.

Q.   When you've watched Florida State's rushing defense on film, what jumps out to you?   Their starters haven't allowed a rushing touchdown all season. 
REESE DISMUKES:   I didn't know that, but I mean they're a good defensive front, and I mean good defense all around.   We're going to have to play good football to win and we're up for the challenge.

Q.   (No microphone).   What's it like for you knowing this team has that kind of reputation?
REESE DISMUKES:   I mean I think you kind of gotta look at it that way when we run the ball the way we do or we have this far.   So I mean you like that as an offensive line, that you know, you get some credit because a lot of times you don't get that credit.

Q.   A lot of this team seems like‑‑ basic plays I understand are really simple or maybe the genius in this offense is blocking schemes.   How intricate and how special is it?
REESE DISMUKES:   The blocking schemes aren't too difficult at all.   Inside zone, little gap scheme, power counter.   That's just about it.   It's not as complex as people try to make it out to be.

Q.   What's it been like for you (No microphone)?
REESE DISMUKES:   I mean I think coach Grimes has done a great job with not only me but the rest of the guys, and I think got a lot better technique this year. 
But I mean I think it's not only me, but you can't play without your two guards next to you and they can't play without their two tackles next to them.   So I don't look at it as far as myself, but they've helped me get to this situation.

Q.   Is there something you focused on in development though?
REESE DISMUKES:   I mean I just try to go out there every day and get better, and like my coach says, sharpen your knife.   You know, you're either getting better or you're getting worse.   You never stay the same, and I just try to go out there and do that.

Q.   It's been such a wild ride for you, you've been through such highs and lows, what's it been like being on this ride?
REESE DISMUKES:   I mean it's been fun.   I think Coach has done a great job with us, and you know, from coming through Georgia and that happening to us and threaten kind of having a bye week to get over that and then going into Alabama, and you know, just getting through that.   And for the team to be able to get over that crazy win and beat Missouri the way we did, you know, I think our team's grown a lot over that whole situation.

Q.   When you look at it as luck or destiny, how do you look at that?
REESE DISMUKES:   I mean can say what they want to say.   We rushed for 296 on Alabama.   I don't think anyone had ever done that before.   And we rushed for I don't even know how many on Georgia.   You know, we kind of lost focus as a team there in the fourth quarter.   And you know, we were lucky the way we won the way we did, but if you look at how we ran the ball that game, it's not a fluke or luck or anything like that.   All that matters is you get the W in the game.

Q.   If the blocking is not that complex and there's nothing too sophisticated with it, what makes this offense so successful where you look at what Malzahn has done when he was a high school coach and assistant here and assistant everywhere else?
REESE DISMUKES:   I mean he's a genius at what he does.   He just puts us in the right play situation at the right time and that's pretty much it.

Q.   Was there a time when you first realized, all right, this guy is really, really sharp?
REESE DISMUKES:   I mean you just talk to him, you know that.   I don't think there was any particular time that I just‑‑ it was like, oh, man, he's a really smart guy.   I think from the first time I heard him talk, you kind of knew he was smart.

Q.   Did he recruit you?   I can't remember. 
REESE DISMUKES:   Yes.   Yeah, he did.

Q.   What was your impression of him when you first met him during that process?
REESE DISMUKES:   I mean just he was a really smart guy and pretty good offensive coordinator there.   Had a really good offense and his goal has always been be the No. 1 offense in the country.

Q.   Are you tired of answering questions yet?
REESE DISMUKES:   Not really.   It's kind of all part of the job.

Q.   Part of the job.   Can you talk to me about the dominance for the state of Alabama, possibly five national championships.   Is it unheard of for a state to do something like that?
REESE DISMUKES:   Yeah.   I think we'll go down in the history books.   I mean I think it's just cool that, you know, we've done‑‑ I mean we'll be a part of something special like that say it does occur.

Q.   Also the domination of the SEC, possibly eight here, if you guys pull off a win.   Talk about this conference and how unbelievable it is. 
REESE DISMUKES:   Yeah.   I mean eight in a row, I think it just goes out to, you know, the recruiting the conference has done and the players and the coaches and the hard work that everyone puts in, and I think it truly is the best conference in America, and I'd like for it to stay that way.

Q.   Can you talk a little bit about frame of mind, where you think the team is at at this point getting ready for the game?
REESE DISMUKES:   Yeah.   I think Coach Malzahn has done a great job keeping it just as a regular game week.   They haven't done anything out of ordinary or changed anything up.   And I think that's how you gotta be.   And I think we've done a great job as far as that's concerned, and I think the team is ready, and you know, obviously we got two more days, I think, to prepare.   What's today?   Saturday?   Yeah.   We got two more days to prepare and just get ready for the biggest games in our life.

Q.   You got your own pavilion and Nick Marshall just gets a little table.   So I'm just wondering what do you think of your star treatment?
REESE DISMUKES:   I mean I don't know.   I mean just happy to be in this situation and just Nick, you know, he's from a little country town, so I'm sure he'll be fine at the table. 

Q.   On a different note, I'm doing sidelines for the game and so I'm wanting to find out how fast you and nick kind of got on the same page for a first‑year quarterback to go that fast. 
REESE DISMUKES:   Yeah.   I think I've kind of helped him a little bit having been in the system before, been playing in this league for three years.   And I mean he's a ball player and you know, a lot of people don't know, he was only in this system for I think six weeks before only our first game.   So you know, we didn't kind of know what he had, and he didn't know what we had.   And I think we've just grown together over all that time, and just trying to get better each and every week kind of as our whole team has.

Q.   How will things be different.   I don't know, noise and stuff like that.   What have you guys been preparing for with communication?
REESE DISMUKES:   Yeah.   We're just treating it as a road game as far as noise goes.   So I mean we've been in this situation before, playing at Tennessee, playing at LSU.   So it shouldn't be a problem as far as communication goes.   We do a great job of working with noise at practice as far as back at Auburn, we'll be in the indoor and have the music on as loud as it can go and you can't hear anything there.   So that helps us work on that situation. 

Q.   What's this whole week experience been like so far?   Anything surprised you about the whole process you gotta go through here?
REESE DISMUKES:   Not much.   I kind of figured it would be like this.   But it's just been exciting trying to soak it all in, but at the end of the day we're here to win a football game and that's kind of been in the back of my mind the whole time.   Enjoy when you're not preparing for the game or not at practice, but you're at stuff like this, you just have a good time and soak it all in, and when it's time to go to work, you gotta go to work.

Q.   Seems like it is kind of tough to have a good time when you have something looming like that.   They set all this stuff up, but then it's like, don't enjoy it too much.
REESE DISMUKES:   Yeah.   They just tell us to come soak it all up and I mean most of the guys are really focused.   So it's kind of mind boggling to go from all, you know, game, game and then kind of chill out.   It's kind of hard, but I mean I think we've done a great job as a team this far in preparing and just getting ready for the game.

Q.   What has been your favorite thing away from practice that you've done this week so far?
REESE DISMUKES:   Let's see.   I gotta think.   I don't even remember what all I've done.   Me and some of my line buddies ate at a really nice Mexican restaurant together.   That was pretty fun.   Just, you know, just hanging out with all the guys is good.   There's a basketball game.   I've been whipping people's butts in that.   So that's about it. 

Q.   Is the Mexican food better out here or is it different than Alabama?
REESE DISMUKES:   Yeah.   It's actually way better than it is in Alabama. 

Q.   People say, but you never know for sure. 
REESE DISMUKES:   Yeah.   I didn't get any cheese dip.   I like that in Alabama.   They didn't have cheese dip at the one I went at.   Us fat guys like cheese dip.

Q.   Did they even know what you were talking about?
REESE DISMUKES:   Yeah.   They knew what I was talking about, because I said queso.   A little here and there. 

Q.   How much did you guys put away?
REESE DISMUKES:   How much food? 

Q.   Yeah. 
REESE DISMUKES:   Not too much.   We didn't get too fat.   (Laughs).

Q.   Have you been to the Rose Bowl before?
REESE DISMUKES:   Never.

Q.   So this is going to be a new experience for you. 
REESE DISMUKES:   Yeah.   Hearing about all the history and all that kind of stuff and you know, the Rose Bowl is always something you hear about and that kind of thing.   So it'll be exciting.   You know, go check it out on Sunday, you know, kind of see how it looks and all that good stuff, and then be ready to go Monday morning.

Q.   Could you talk a little bit about Greg Robinson and how he's come along?   He may have a shot at going to the NFL next year. 
REESE DISMUKES:   Yeah.   Greg Robinson is a dominant force and great football player, and I mean I don't think you can say as much as you want about him.   I mean he's just a great all‑around player and brings a lot to this team and he's a pretty dominant force on the football field.

Q.   Has he progressed a lot, especially this year?   I know he played a lot last year, but did he make a big jump this year?
REESE DISMUKES:   Yeah, yeah.   I think, you know, really as a whole offensive line we've made a big jump and Coach J. B. Grimes has done a great job with us and has allowed us to work on our technique and he's brought new stuff to our game and really helped us out.

Q.   Can you think of a game where he like really dominated somebody where it stuck out in your mind where he really pancaked somebody?
REESE DISMUKES:   Greg.

Q.   Greg, yeah. 
REESE DISMUKES:   Yeah.   I mean I don't think you can really think of one game.   I think he kind of dominated in just about every game.

Q.   But is there one that sticks out in your mind where you almost felt sorry for the guy he was blocking?
REESE DISMUKES:   Yeah.   I think Tennessee, I think he was smashing folks up there.   But I mean he smashed folks just about everywhere, I mean so, I don't think you can really pull one game out of it.

Q.   I'm just thinking like one time where you looked at it and you said, man, he really wiped that guy out. 
REESE DISMUKES:   I mean I think he's just about had one every game, but I think Tennessee had a few good ones.   I'm not really sure.   I think maybe even Alabama.   Yeah, actually.

Q.   Tell me about that. 
REESE DISMUKES:   Alabama, the play I think it was‑‑ it was either Alabama or Georgia, the play where nick took it deep or Tre had a long run.   Yeah, yeah, it was against Alabama.   It was the one nick pulled it and ran the long touchdown.   I think it was the first touchdown of the game.   He wore out their D tackle.   He took him for about eight yards.   I don't think he pancaked him, but he took him out.

Q.   Okay.   Do you remember which defensive tackle it was?
REESE DISMUKES:   I think it was Pagan.

Q.   Just took him eight yards, just ran him backyards?
REESE DISMUKES:   Yeah.   Smashed him and that's really why we were successful.

Q.   Y'all enjoyed watching that in the film room after the game?
REESE DISMUKES:   Yeah, we did.   Coach Grimes is a good ol' guy.   He's fun to watch film with.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT