U.S. AMATEUR FOUR-BALL CHAMPIONSHIP
May 29, 2019
Logan Shuping
Blake Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Blake, you guys love that 18th hole, man.  How about that putt?
BLAKE TAYLOR: Yeah, I mean, the goal was just two-putt, but I didn't want to leave it short.  It was uphill, pretty straight putt, so I decided to give it a run, and it caught the left edge and went in.
Q. Tell me also about the long birdie putt at 12 that put you 3 up.
BLAKE TAYLOR: Yeah, Logan made a bomb on 12.  I got a putt up, another long putt up pretty close.  And he snuck in a bomb, and that really kind of -- that helped us push a little further ahead for the finishing stretch.
Q. And then what's it feel like here making the final now?
LOGAN SHUPING: I don't know.  We're just going to go eat, get ready.  I mean, we start in 45 minutes.  So we're excited right now, but I think we've made it this far.  Might as well give it our all, one more round.
Q. A nice little birdie run in the middle of the round, 8, 10, and 12 that got you the lead.  You held on at the end.  What did you do well in that stretch?
LOGAN SHUPING: Again, we hit the ball great today.  We kept hitting it good.  We rolled the ball, I think, the best we have all week today.  We had a couple lip-outs, but every putt we hit either went in or almost went in.
So that was -- I mean, I think that's been the key all week.  We did make a bogey today, but for the most part we just parred people to death and made birdies here and there.  I think the only thing we need to really improve on is par 5 play, and we're ready to go.
Q. Blake, this wind really picked up as the day went along.  It's going to be windy in the championship.  What do you have to do mentally in the championship match with the wind?
BLAKE TAYLOR: We're kind of excited for it because, like I said, it makes the course tough.  This is a course that is meant to play in wind.  So you just have to play it kind of how it's meant to play, a lot of low shots, a lot of running it up on the greens.
It makes a lot of holes turn from birdie holes to par holes, and you really got to take your birdies when you can get them.  Like we said, kind of like we've been doing all week, just keep making pars.
Q. Logan, last one.  You guys probably, being from North Carolina, have heard of Scott Harvey.  What's it going to take to beat him and his partner, Todd Mitchell?
LOGAN SHUPING: Doing what we've been doing.  Yeah, of course, we know who they are.  We get here, and we see the Stewart Hagestads, the Scott Harveys, and that's cool and everything.  You know, we're just going to go out, play the course.  We know who they are.  They're great.  So are the people we played this afternoon and every other round here.
So that will be cool one day, you can go back and say, hey, we played in the final U.S. four-ball against Scott Harvey and Todd Mitchell, but right now, it's just us and the course.
Q. All right.  Thanks.
BLAKE TAYLOR: Thank you.
LOGAN SHUPING: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT