U.S. AMATEUR FOUR-BALL CHAMPIONSHIP
May 29, 2019
Logan Shuping
Blake Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I know it's a little disappointing you didn't get your hands on that trophy, but this is your first USGA Championship -- your second.  A little disappointed you didn't win, but sum up your week.
BLAKE TAYLOR: It was long, first of all.  Just realized we got here a week ago.  It was fun to make it to the last day.  That was kind of our thing the whole time.  We were like, we don't want to leave.  So we made it to the last day.  Played the whole time.
LOGAN SHUPING: Yeah.  I second that.  I mean, it was beyond an amazing week here.  Obviously, you know, we'd like to be holding the trophy.  Any time you lose, you're not going to be that happy.
But looking back on it, this is probably going to be my favorite week of golf ever.  I mean, this is so much fun, having the family here, playing with Blake.  We played so well.  I mean, we even played well this afternoon.  Those guys got hot, and they're great.  That's what happens.
Q. You guys are both from North Carolina.  Scott Harvey is pretty much a legend in North Carolina.  Did you guys know of him before you teed off?
LOGAN SHUPING: Yeah, yeah.  We knew who he was.  But it is what it is.  He's known because he wins stuff like this.  So we tried to stop him today, but him and Todd played great.
Q. Seemed like maybe the difference in the match was the par 4 in the back.  You guys were 1 up.  I guess you drove the green, three-putted.  Mitchell got it up up and down with a birdie.  Is that where everything kind of changed?
BLAKE TAYLOR: Yeah, that kind of kicked off his streak.  He birdied three holes in a row, and that started him.  So, I mean, I guess it got him fired up.  And that, you know -- I hit a couple bad drives, and we just weren't in as good a position as he was.
Three holes later, he made three birdies by himself and kind of changed stuff.
Q. You guys got back in it after they birdied two holes in a row.  You got two back and took the lead.  You stuffed some shots in there.
BLAKE TAYLOR: Yeah, they birdied 5, and Scott birdied 6.  We were saying a birdie on 6 is incredible today.  Yeah, on 7, I got one in there close and made it and left one in the heart on 8.  And then what other holes?
LOGAN SHUPING: 10.
BLAKE TAYLOR: 10, we both put it in there close, and they kind of hit it over the green in a bad spot.  What was next?  13.
LOGAN SHUPING: 13, you hit it in --
BLAKE TAYLOR: Yeah, I hit into five, six feet on 13 and made it.  So, yeah, that was the thing.  After that, we really didn't have any great looks.  I mean, I kind of got a bad break on this hole, thought I hit it down the fairway and ended up in the bunker where I couldn't even get it out.
LOGAN SHUPING: Had to go sideways.
BLAKE TAYLOR: Yeah, had to come out sideways.  I wish I could have helped Logan out a little more on this hole.  Like he said, it was a fun week and we're glad to just be here.
Q. How does a week like this help you guys going into the summer competition season, obviously into your senior seasons for college?
LOGAN SHUPING: Oh, man.  Shoot.  I don't know.  We've got -- we'll be traveling all day tomorrow.  I know we've got a tournament next week on Tuesday.  So, I mean, pretty worn out right now, honestly.  But we'll regroup, obviously.
To play, I think you have -- since you played in the Greenbriar, but I've never played in front of this many people before, people I had no idea who they were.  But it was fun.  It was a blast today.  That's what it was about.  I think we held our own.  Wish we could have made some more birdies down the stretch, but that's how it goes.
Q. You get to come back for three more years, being a finalist.  I don't know what your plans are beyond college, but you can play next year at the Philly Cricket Club?
LOGAN SHUPING: Absolutely.
BLAKE TAYLOR: That will be a fun trip.
Q. Have you been up to Philly at all?
BLAKE TAYLOR: I've been in parts of Pennsylvania but never to Philly.
LOGAN SHUPING: Never been to Philly.
Q. Ever come out here before?
BLAKE TAYLOR: No.
LOGAN SHUPING: No.
Q. Reflections on Bandon, spending a week here?
BLAKE TAYLOR: Amazing.
LOGAN SHUPING: Amazing, yeah.  Everyone talked it up so much, and we were like, you know, so many people are talking it up, so it's probably pretty good.  I mean, you could have talked it up even more because it's unreal, the course is.  I mean, I wish we could have seen some of the other courses.
Q. If you can qualify for the U.S. Am next year, you'll get to see two of them.
BLAKE TAYLOR: That's even more incentive to come back here.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT