U.S. AMATEUR FOUR-BALL CHAMPIONSHIP
May 28, 2019
Blake Taylor
Logan Shuping
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Blake, I'll start with you.  Tell us what you had on the second shot going into 18.
BLAKE TAYLOR: It was 161, straight downwind, and I figured it was probably playing about 140.  And you knew you couldn't land it at the flag so just hit a good pitching wedge in the wind and try to land it about ten yards short.
I had the slope left so just play it left and let it come down the slope, and that's what it did.
Q. At about four feet, was there much break at that?
BLAKE TAYLOR: It was inside right edge, and it was just put a good stroke on it, and you know it was going to go in.
Q. What's the feeling like when a putt goes in like that and the comeback that you made?
BLAKE TAYLOR: It was really good, because I honestly played terrible all day.  He kind of carried us and made huge putts, made 20-footers on 16 and 17 for birdie.  And then mine was a little shorter, but it was nice.
Q. Logan, tell me about winning 16 and 17 before you got to this point.
LOGAN SHUPING: Oh, man.  It was one of those days where it felt like nothing was going our way.  We couldn't make anything.  We were hitting good shots, getting some bad bounces.  Finally, I just looked at Blake on 16 and was like, man, I don't want to leave.  This place is awesome.  I don't want to go anywhere.  That's what I just kept telling myself on 16 and 17.  I just don't want to leave.  Made some putts, hit some good shots, and got some breaks, and --
Q. So what happened on 16?
LOGAN SHUPING: 16, hit driver down the middle.  I think I hit a 9 iron about 20 feet long of the pin.  And Blake hit it up there about 30 feet, just missed it.  And they were up there for par.  It's like, well, you know, you got to make it.
Finally, I felt like I hit the ball great today.  I didn't make hardly anything until the last couple holes.  Finally, it was just like, you know, if you want to stay, you got to make it.  And made it.
Then 17, I hit driver down the middle, had 240, 237 to the stick.  Pin was on the back.  I was just trying to land it on the front so I ripped a 4 iron up there and thought it was going to be, honestly, perfect.  And I think it got a big kick, went over the green just in the rough.
All I could do from there was chip it from probably 15, 18 feet for birdie.
Q. What club did you use to chip?
LOGAN SHUPING: 58 degree.  I had to hit it a little bit higher and let it run down the hill.  Again, it was a putt where we talked about where we had to match the speed and the line and just, again, told myself if you want to stay, you got to make it.  Blake was in there too about eight feet, ten feet.  He was inside of me.
But I knew that if I made it, it would put the pressure on him, because he had about a 5-footer left, maybe longer than that.  Maybe 7-footer.  He had a 5- to 7-footer for birdie left that I knew if I made it, it closes that hole up.
Q. I don't know who your hero is in golf, Blake, but Tiger used to do this.  He would be 2 down, three to play, somehow win.  What's that feel like?
BLAKE TAYLOR: It's crazy.  I mean, it's the biggest comeback I've probably been a part of.  We lost 14, we both missed kind of short birdie putts.  And then lost 15 when they went birdie, birdie.  We were like, you know, it wasn't looking good.  But like he said, we told ourselves on 16, we got to go 3, 4, 3 and see what that would get us.  And that's what we did, and it ended up being just enough.
Q. Logan, what's it mean to you now, the way you did it and the way that match went?
LOGAN SHUPING: I mean, it's awesome.  When we came here, we were like, let's just have a good time.  We came out in the practice rounds, we heard about this place.  It's everything we thought it would be and more.  We played well in stroke play.  We're like, let's go out here and have fun and enjoy the course and play the way we've been playing.
I think we keep hitting the ball like this -- we still haven't, in my opinion, made enough putts.  So if we get the putters hot, I think we can go as far as we want to go.
Q. Great.  Thanks.  Appreciate it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT