NBA PLAYOFFS ROUND ONE: CLIPPERS vs WARRIORS
April 21, 2019
Patrick Beverley
Shai Gilgeous-Alexander
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Warriors - 113, Clippers - 105
Q. Shai, you hadn't been playing well the last couple games.  Doc touched on that.  You were one of the keys to really get this team going.  Did you have that aggressive mindset from the start and did you feel like you needed to play better?
SHAI GILGEOUS-ALEXANDER: Yeah, absolutely.  We addressed that in film.  I had watched film and I saw spots where I could take advantage offensively, and I tried to do so today.
Q. Shai, when you're going out there and you're playing that aggressively in the first half, how do you feel it energizes the team?
SHAI GILGEOUS-ALEXANDER: Personally, I think Pat is the energy of the team.  He locks us in before and at halftime and things like that, and then we just feed off of him as far as defensively.  I feel like as a unit when we get going defensively, our offense takes care of itself.
Q. Pat, at the end of the third quarter, you guys were up by seven, they went on a 23-10 run.  Describe what happened in that sequence?
PATRICK BEVERLEY: They made shots.
Q. Can you talk about as far as going back to Golden State, how intense is that going to be knowing that you guys are down 3-1?  How do you inspire yourselves and the rest of the team to come out and get a victory?
SHAI GILGEOUS-ALEXANDER: I think that we from the beginning of the season, Playoffs, training camp, we're self-motivated.  We look at every situation, every game as one game at a time, and you know, it's 3-1, that's the obvious.  Everyone knows that.  But to us, we just have to win a game and go from there.
Q. Can you talk about the different element that JaMychal Green brings to you guys in the starting lineup?
PATRICK BEVERLEY: I just think he's another big that can stretch the floor.  You know, Doc did a great job of making the adjustments, and as a unit, we were able to switch a little bit more, get stops, run.  He can space it.  So kind of put him in a bad position with that one to do with Bogut.  We like what we have, and we'll see how it goes from there.
Q. Pat, you've been one of the veterans, you and Lou, that's really been helping Shai along with this.  How impressed were you by what he did tonight?
PATRICK BEVERLEY: I mean, words can't really describe because I see the work every day.  I seen the work since training camp.  Before he even stepped into training camp I watched film of him with my best friends, hey, man, this kid is going to be special.  You see the grind throughout the year, and he embraces it.  He loves the grind.  Whether it's up or down, coaches, they on him like they're supposed to be, Sam Cassell, Doc, on him, on him, he never folds.  Very poised, cool under pressure, and I think what you guys seen tonight -- despite the loss, what you guys seen tonight is starting to make him for sure.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT