WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC: 1ST ROUND POOL D
March 11, 2017
Francisco Lindor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Can you describe the victory and what it means?
FRANCISCO LINDOR: Any victory is good, but this is insuring something good.  It's not over yet, but the work here continues in México.  We have to play strong tomorrow, whatever happens.
Q. What does it mean to you leaving México practically on the brink of a elimination at home?
FRANCISCO LINDOR: We weren't thinking about eliminating México.  We were working hard to win the games every day.  It just so happened that México lost the first game and then they just lost today.  We're not trying to eliminate anybody, we're trying to support each other and play as hard as we can.
Q. (No microphone)?
FRANCISCO LINDOR: Yes, of course, from the first day the team, whatever we need in order to win a championship, the chemistry is there, the batting is there, the pitching is there.  It's a matter of playing ball correctly, otherwise if we don't play ball correctly...
Q. Have you guys allowed yourself to think about the next round or what the possibilities are going forward?
FRANCISCO LINDOR: I don't want to think about what's going to happen.  I want to stay in the present, and I was I wasn't trying to hit home runs.  Wherever they go was a plus, was a bonus.  I was just trying to get a good pitch to hit, trying to make something happen for my team, get on base, and let Correa, Beltran, Molina, Baez do the job and bring me home.  It was a good day out.  It was a good day today.
Q. What went through your mind when there was a disturbance in the stands?
FRANCISCO LINDOR: It was a little bit -- it's a little bit frightening because of our families, and we're also fans.  One has to -- this is a family environment, and when we saw they were in our families, you're thinking about your wives and your children, your relatives.  I know the fans of México, they are good fans, but well, the rivalry between Puerto Rico and México is part of the game.  It's too bad that something happens like this, such a beautiful atmosphere, so big and so beautiful.  But thank God nobody got hurt, and the family didn't get hurt, so that's a good thing.
Q. Do you connect the home run, opening the first inning, and then -- yesterday was Correa, today it was you?
FRANCISCO LINDOR: The first one I was looking for the pitch that he threw me, and I knew.  I hit it with everything.  The second one I didn't have any idea, but it looked like the ball was flying here, and now that I hit two home runs, I'd say it's a good park to hit.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT