NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: DEVILS v AVALANCHE
June 2, 2001
Rob Blake
Jay Pandolfo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  You came off a fast period.  Did you feel the pace?

ROB BLAKE:  We did.  It's hard moving out there today.  They are coming at us pretty good.  We have got to turn it up a few notches if we want to compete again.


Q.  What about the other part of your defense everybody talks about you, Foote and Bourque, but the other three guys seem to be carrying the load?

ROB BLAKE: Yeah, definitely, Skoula had a big goal for us last game; Greg de Vries and Johnny Klemm, they played tons of minutes for us so it is an all-around 6.


Q.  Are you surprised at all about the fact that they are not getting to the net as much as they should be?

ROB BLAKE:  Well, we take pride in that.  That's one thing.  We have got some real mobile "D", guys that are strong.  We want to keep them on the outside. If we keep them on the outside, it's tougher to score.
 

Q.  Here's an observation made the end of the first period.  The Devils look uptight; not very relaxed; is this fair?

JAY PANDOLFO:   Yeah, I think maybe we were a little uptight in the first period.  We got a couple of penalties  here and we really couldn't get into our game.  I think now we have to stop  taking penalties and playing 5-on-5; we have been much better off when we are doing that.  Seems like every first period we are getting penalties and trying to kill them off and you don't get everyone off the skate and we need everyone in this game.


Q.  Goal scoring slump has gone from minor to major.  It's no laughing matter, you are not going to win with the limited offense you had in the first period.  How to get that turned around?

JAY PANDOLFO:  Definitely the second period we are going to have to come out there and get as many shots through as we can.  Their defense and forwards are doing a good job on blocking shots and letting Patrick see the puck so we have got to find a way to get in front of him and get pucks on net and that's the only way we are going to win if we get some goals against Patrick.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT