THE 148TH OPEN
July 19, 2019
Jake McLeod
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How do you sum it up?  
JAKE McLEOD: Yeah, played a little bit better today.  I made a lot more birdies but still made a lot of bogeys.   
 Q.  That kind of course, isn't it?  
JAKE McLEOD: Yeah, that's right.   
 Q.  What was the difference really?  
JAKE McLEOD: I was just missing a few putts.  Well, I had a couple of three-putts out there and just a couple -- there wasn't much wind out there, but when it was on the crosswind holes I was sort of getting confused which way I was going and made a couple of wrong decisions there so they came up short or long.  That kind of hurt.   
It's tough to get up and down sometimes out here.  So other than the sort of three or four times, I actually played pretty well.  Those bogeys sort of stung a little bit there.   
 Q.  You bogeyed the first but you knocked it down pretty well and bounced back.  
JAKE McLEOD: Yeah, I hit a good shot into the third and really nice putt there, so that was nice.  Played the fourth well.  And on the fifth holed a really nice putt there.  That was good.  Through 5 I was pretty happy with that.   
It was perfect conditions out there.  So I felt quite comfortable and ready to go.  And got to the next hole and a little three whack there, so it just ruined a bit of the momentum.  But hit it close on the next, on the par 5, drove a 3-iron to about 8 feet and missed it.  So that one hurt a bit, as well.   
 Q.  You sensed a few birdies out there?  
JAKE McLEOD: Yeah, there was plenty today I thought.  If you hit it in the right spots on the greens they roll pretty well.  If you hit the ball on line it's quite easy.   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  
JAKE McLEOD: The pin was sort of back left, like four to the left.  And I was down that steep bunker, it's about 15 feet, 20 feet below the pin.  Obviously didn't want to make a six.  I'm just going to jam it into the bank and let it skip out and I couldn't see it.  Apparently it spun right and went in.   
 Q.  There was a big roar.  
JAKE McLEOD: Yeah, it was cool.  So I holed the putt in the hole before.  When I holed that one I was pretty pumped.   
 Q.  A couple hole outs like that must be special?  
JAKE McLEOD: Yeah, definitely.  I'll take a lot out of it.  I was actually quite happy though with how I was feeling.  I usually get quite nervous on the first tee.  But today I was really comfortable.  I had a good time.   
Next time I'll hopefully do a little bit better.   
 Q.  Do you feel you got a little more comfortable than you thought you would be coming here?  
JAKE McLEOD: Yeah, definitely.  It was weird, coming in I thought I'd be packing it in a bit.  But I was very happy.  I was still obviously nervous, but I was just thinking about some other things.   
I was pretty happy with how that went, yeah.   
 Q.  What's coming up next?  
JAKE McLEOD: To be honest, I think I'm going to have some time off.  Maybe a month off or so.   
 Q.  Go home?  
JAKE McLEOD: Yeah, go home and hang the sticks up for a while.  I'm not sure how long.  I'll decide over the next few weeks.   
 Q.  Did you have any advice from Australian players?  
JAKE McLEOD: No, not really around this golf course, no, because no one has really played it before.  But I've played a couple of practice rounds early and I got to play with Padraig on Wednesday, it was cool.  He helped me on a couple of tee shots.  And Charley Hoffman on the first day.  I came out Monday afternoon he was giving me some advice on things.  It was cool.   
 Q.  What did you make of Erik's trousers?  
JAKE McLEOD: Yeah, the short ones.  I'm not sure.  I'm not sure.  I think he pulls them off.  I don't think everyone can.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT