VALERO ALAMO BOWL: TEXAS VS COLORADO
December 29, 2020
DeMarvion Overshown
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Texas 55, Colorado 23
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for DeMarvion.
Q. Who had the better pick tonight, you or big No. 95?
DeMARVION OVERHSOWN:   I'm going to have to give it to my boy AC.  That was crazy, crazy.
Q. Throughout the game it looked like you were playing through some pain, especially in the second half.  What was going on with you there?  How did you get through that, have the performance you had?
DeMARVION OVERHSOWN:   Just a couple bruises.  It wasn't nothing serious.  I just knew I needed to be out there for my team, just kept pushing.  I knew I had nothing else going tomorrow, don't play till another nine months, leave it all on the field.
Q. Talk about the guys that did play.  What kind of message were y'all trying to send about this program?
DeMARVION OVERHSOWN:   That we're the University of Texas and no matter who's going on to do better things with their life, it's a standard here.  We recruit players for this.  People leave, next guy up.
Q. You had the social media announcement saying you were coming back.  Talk about that decision.  After tonight, this whole process of making a transition to linebacker, how do you feel about the growth you think you still can make?
DeMARVION OVERHSOWN:   Just the fact I've learned a lot over the course of the season.  The fact that I'm not even halfway where I can be and where I will be next year.  I didn't get a spring ball this year once I moved to the linebacker spot.  I know coming back is going to help me a lot in the long run.  It's also going to help the team a lot next year.
Q. What would DeMarvion the linebacker tell DeMarvion the defensive back who walked off the same field last year?
DeMARVION OVERHSOWN:   Get in the box.
Q. Tom talked about with all the guys that were gone, he wasn't concerned about the young guys going out there.  Did you feel the same way?  If so, why?
DeMARVION OVERHSOWN:   I did.  Like I said earlier, with the University of Texas, we recruit players for this moment all the time.  Just after the Kansas State game, you seen what the young pups can do.  I trust them.  They trust me and I trust them.  That's one thing about playing this game, 11 guys on the field, you all have to trust each other in order to get the job done.
Q. How impressed were you with Casey tonight?  If Sam does choose to leave, how do you think he and Hudson will do?
DeMARVION OVERHSOWN:   I think they're going to do just fine.  They got a great coach on the offensive side.  They compete every day.  No matter who is the starting quarterback next year, we're going to be good because they compete every day.
Q. What kind of statement did this game make that Tom Herman and this coaching staff are the right group to lead the program going forward?
DeMARVION OVERHSOWN:   The fact that when we have fun and we go out there, we can win games.  That's no question at all.  I mean, 2020 was an up-and-down season.  We know what we're capable of when we play our best.
Q. Was there a point this year, a game you can point to, where you really started to feel comfortable with coach's defense?  With so many guys coming back, how good do you think this defense can be next year?
DeMARVION OVERHSOWN:   I mean, we've gotten better every game.  Like I said, we not even close to where we're going to be next year.  We didn't get a spring.  That really held us back at the beginning of the season.
The fact that we're getting better each week, we haven't even seen our full potential yet, it's definitely going to be scary next year.
Q. With the number of young guys playing tonight, how does that make you feel about the future of this team?  I have to ask, is there a reason behind the number of armbands you wore tonight?
DeMARVION OVERHSOWN:   No, that's just me doing me.  Got to build my brand, you know.  Got to build my brand (smiling).
The question about the young pups playing, like I said earlier, I trust them.  I see them practice every day, working just as hard as anybody else.  The fact that they went out there and done they thing tonight, I'm really proud of them.
Q. Do you feel this game can be kind of a springboard game for you going into next season, give you momentum going into the off-season?
DeMARVION OVERHSOWN:   Yeah, for sure.  I feel like not just me but everybody that played today, they saw what we were capable of.  I feel like it's a huge springboard for them.  Hopefully we get a regular off-season this year and just to work at what we didn't get to do last spring.
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT