ROGERS CUP
August 7, 2018
Francoise Abanda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








F. ABANDA/K. Flipkens
6-3, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. When the wild cards were announced, they were given to three Canadian players.  You weren't one of them.  You got one because of an injury.  Now you're the last Canadian woman standing.  What does that mean to you?
FRANCOISE ABANDA: It means a lot.  Yeah, it's crazy because I thought I was going to play Saturday.  Next thing you know I'm playing Tuesday night.  Everything can change every day.  Things are just going good for me every day.  Today I won my match, so hopefully tomorrow I'll just go and do my best, really be fearless.
Q. You seemed to keep her off balance.  What were you trying to do out there?  What was your strategy going in?
FRANCOISE ABANDA: First of all, I just have a good attitude.  I think I had the good attitude and right mindset going in.  I know she's a very steady player, experienced as well, older.  I just really tried to stay solid every point.
Q. You did very well on your first serve, winning 85%.
FRANCOISE ABANDA: Yeah, I served pretty well in the first set, returned well, as well.  Towards the end I struggled to close the match.  Finally I closed it at 6-2, I think.  I'm glad I was able to close it.
Q. Sloane Stephens coming up tomorrow.  What kind of challenge does she present for you?
FRANCOISE ABANDA: Yeah, as I said, she's a big challenge for me.  I'm actually happy to play world No. 4.  It will be a good match for me regardless of the result.  I think I will just go out and do my best and really play with no pressure and just enjoy.
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French, please.
Q. It's a big victory, maybe the best one since your last quarters.
FRANCOISE ABANDA: Yes, it's been a long time I didn't have a big victory like this one.  Flipkens was top 30 in the past, so it was a tough opponent.  I'm happy I was able to win this match.
Q. Can you explain how you spent the evening last night with the rain.  Were you just waiting?  Did you go back to the hotel?
FRANCOISE ABANDA: I was waiting for the match since yesterday.  It was long.  I even played one of the last matches today.
But never mind.  I believe I was ready.  I did the right things.  My coaches helped me.  That was the most important.
Q. It seemed very solid from you from the baseline.  You seemed to be on the defensive.  How was it playing against her?
FRANCOISE ABANDA: I know she mixes it up a lot, she slices a lot.  I was trying to be consistent and not make mistakes, to find a right balance.  I believe I had the right mindset today.  This helped me win the match.
Q. Are you sending a message through this victory?
FRANCOISE ABANDA: For sure, there was pressure in that match.  Whatever the result, I just wanted to play well and have fun.  The positive thing is that I had a wild card and I played the Rogers Cup against one of the top players.  There are many positive things about this.  Tomorrow I have another match to play.
I'm not in the mindset of a statement.  What has been said is in the past, and now we're in the Rogers Cup and I'm focusing on that.
Q. You're going to play Sloane Stevens tomorrow.  What do you know about her?  What does it mean for you to play her on center court?
FRANCOISE ABANDA: It's a player I've been watching for a few years.  She won the US Open, many big tournaments.  So the match will be tough.  But I'm happy that I'm able to play the No. 4 in the world.  It's important for me to have a measuring stick.  Very happy.  I will go out, play my match, do my best.
Q. You were saying you wanted to reach the top 100.  Is the Rogers Cup a good step towards that goal?
FRANCOISE ABANDA: Yes, the first part of the year was tough for me.  But this is the best moment I've had until now.  I think with this victory I can try to do well in the next tournaments, and this week also.
Q. You're going to be the only Canadian player in the second round.  In Toronto there are four players.  Did you watch Denis and the other players?
FRANCOISE ABANDA: Yes, I followed them.  I followed Toronto as well as Montreal.  I saw Felix won.  Denis was playing at the same time I played.  He won?
Q. Yes.
FRANCOISE ABANDA: Okay.  It's good.  I'm happy about the boys in Toronto.  I will try here to do my part for all the fans in Montreal and all those who are supporting me.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT