NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: RANGERS v CANADIENS
May 21, 2014
Brandon Prust
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Do you think there is even more you can do to get to him or get him off his game to get some goals past him? 
BRANDON PRUST:   Yeah, I think you can always get more traffic and take away his ice.   You know, we can still do a lot more going to the net and looking for rebounds in the pucks and try to screen a little bit more.

Q.   It seems like Vanek is enduring quite a bit of scrutiny right now.   How do you see him handling that?   Do you think it's fair? 
BRANDON PRUST:   Well, he's been around a long time.   You know, with guys and players like that you're always expected to get a ton of goals and a ton of points.   If you don't get them, people are going to start talking. 
So we're just worried about him playing the Montreal Canadiens style of hockey and staying positive.   He's a good player and someone we need to be good for us here.

Q.   Has it been challenging not to think about your experience here and seeing familiar faces? 
BRANDON PRUST:   Yeah, I don't think it's challenging.   You know, you don't have to erase any memories or anything like that.   It's kind of cool coming back to New York.   It's a city I've lived in for years.   It's going to be good to go back to MSG and doing what I used to do there. 

Q.   It can excite you that much more with the potential to win a game at the Garden as a team?
BRANDON PRUST:   Yeah, I think it was similar as to going into Boston.   It was fun are us to go in there and steal games.   And MSG is one of those buildings too.   You have a hostile crowd and one of the best arenas, especially for hockey game or playoff hockey game in the world.   So we're excited we're going there.

Q.   Daniel said he had some interesting goalie situations in Philly.   But have you ever seen anything quite like what happened with Dustin Tokarski in this series? 
BRANDON PRUST:   I don't think I've ever been through a situation like that, but the kid did well.   He's been skating with the Black Aces for most of the playoffs and he does a job like that.   That's why you see they have a lot of trust in him.   Even though we don't know him too well, the organization and the goalie have a lot of trust in him.

Q.   Did you see anything in that day or days leading up to it, personality, demeanor‑wise that this kid can handle the pressure?   Because obviously that's not an easy thing to step into. 
BRANDON PRUST:   Yeah, I think even game day after morning skate, you know, just we were talking about something, and just him joking around.   You know, I thought he would be maybe a little more nervous, maybe a little more, but he was joking around and chattering.     You can tell he's been through it.   He's had some experience in his past where he's been through stuff like this and done a really good job.   So we're hoping for more of the same.

Q.   Knowing Henrik as well as you do, when you see him playing like this, are there things that can you think of your time here or do you say things that might throw him off?   Or is it just hard to get him off his game when he's like this? 
BRANDON PRUST:   He's one of the best for a reason.   He's tough to get off his game.   We just have to do a better job of making it tough on him.   These goalies are in the NHL.   If you let them see pucks and you're not getting rebounds, you're not going to get many goals.
So we've got to get back to what we were doing.   We were getting in the net, getting rebounds, getting dirty goals, shots from the points.   Guys were screening and we scored a lot of goals throughout the playoffs like that and through the season, so. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT