NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: DEVILS v RANGERS
May 20, 2012
Brandon Prust
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Are you able to explain yourself the way you want to (indiscernible)?  
BRANDON PRUST:   Yeah.   I think I was able to talk quite a bit and just explain kind of where I was coming from on the play and just trying to get in a check before it was the end of a shift, just skating over for routine check, I just wanted to rub him out and get off the ice.  
And he just kind of‑ he bailed out of it and turned and kind of went rolling.   And it's just kind of a reaction when you're off balance, your arms go up, I didn't want to go do a faceplant in the boards.   It's just kind of a reaction.   I had no intent to hit him in the head.   There was nothing vicious about it.  
   
 Q.   Do you think the league was receptive to that or did you get a sense a suspension is coming?  
BRANDON PRUST:   I have no clue, really.   I know that I played a lot of professional hockey games.   Never been suspended before.   I don't even think I've had an elbowing penalty this year.   
So I'm sure they'll take that into account.  
   
 Q.   Do you think that he sold that at all?   That's what your coach would say.   
BRANDON PRUST:   Well, I didn't even really feel I elbowed him.   I didn't even know I elbowed him.   I went to the bench and I thought maybe I caught him with my knee, maybe charley horse or something.   So I just‑‑ I didn't hit him that hard.   I just grazed his helmet, got his helmet a little bit and it slid up and for sure he's trying to get a penalty when your helmet comes up.   It's just natural.   You're going to try and sell it for a power play.  
   
 Q.   Do you think it's unfair for them to characterize you as a headhunter in that case?   
BRANDON PRUST:   Who is referring to me as a headhunter?   
   
 Q.   DeBoer.   
BRANDON PRUST:   I'm not too worried about what he has to say.   He's not my coach.   
   
 Q.   Coach said you take a lot of pride when you get hit hard, bouncing back up and playing the game the right way.   Is that something that's been a season‑long thing that's been hammered in, or is it something that doesn't need to be hammered in?  
A.Yeah, it's something that is just kind of the character of this team.   If a guy's lying down on the ice, he's seriously hurt.   We see guys getting up from broken foots and broken wrists and stuff.   
So we don't usually lay on the ice unless your head's off.  
   
 Q.   How hard is it to keep playing that way when you have seen in some other cases guys go down easier?  
BRANDON PRUST:   We just keep the same mindset.   We don't worry about what other teams are doing.   We just worry about ourselves.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel like there's hate, for lack of a better word, (indiscernible) in this series, three games in?  
BRANDON PRUST:   I think it's been going all year.   It's Devils‑Rangers.   So there's been a hate since‑ for years.   But this season's been pretty good that way.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT