MLB WINTER MEETINGS
December 12, 2018
Tanner Roark
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How are you?
TANNER ROARK: Surprised but it's the name of the game.  This is the way this business is.  So I'm a Cincinnati Red now, so pretty excited.
Q. Did you sense when they acquired Corbin that this was something that could possibly happen with you?
TANNER ROARK: No.  I thought we had a pretty good staff over there in DC, but they thought otherwise, and I don't know what their plans are.  So I'm just grateful to be a National and there were good times over there.
Q. How will you handle -- I know it's happened like ten minutes ago, how do you think of your time as a National and how would you describe your experience there?
TANNER ROARK: It was a great experience.  I learned a lot from the veteran pitchers and position players and guys that were there when I first came up.  And they taught me how to be professional.  And it's taken me a long way.  And I always remember certain things:  To always be a professional.
And I'll miss the guys, of course.  But like I said, it's the name of the game.  I have new teammates now, and I've got to face them.
Q. What do you know about the Reds and kind of where they are at this point of their cycle of trying to get in contention and things like that?
TANNER ROARK: I know they're -- they can hit the ball.  They have a tough lineup.  I know that for sure.  And also I'm excited to go in there and do my thing and just attack, attack, attack.
Q. Is one of the first things when we talk to any pitchers, pitching in Great American Ball Park, is there anything that you think of pitching in that park with its reputation?
TANNER ROARK: I know what you want me to say.
The ball flies.  I feel like the ball flies everywhere nowadays.  There's only a few ballparks in Major League Baseball that the ball doesn't fly or plays fair or is just huge.  So it's not going to change the way I pitch.  I'm still going to attack guys and pitch inside and get them uncomfortable.  That's my game.  So there's no need to change the way I pitch or try to trick guys.  Just coming after you, and that's me.
Q. You had some big highs obviously in Washington.  But you also, for whatever reason over the years, were a guy that they would sometimes bump out of the rotation.  Obviously now even though they don't have over stock rotation, you're the guy they're trading.  Do you hold any grudges against them the way they treated you at times, given your track record?
TANNER ROARK: No, life's too short to hold grudges.  But that's what they wanted to do, you know.  If they can live with it, then they live with it, you know?  They treated me great.  But there were times to where I would be very frustrated and I'd get pissed off.  But that made me stronger mentally and how to handle certain things like that.  So it helped me.
Q. Do you have any relationship, do you know Derek Johnson at all, the new Reds pitching coach?
TANNER ROARK: I do not, no.  I'll be sure -- I'm sure he'll be calling me here pretty soon.
Q. Is it exciting knowing going to Cincinnati you'll be one of the top starters there, just going to that role as a front-line starter for them?
TANNER ROARK: Yeah, I'm excited just to go there.  I don't care about No. 1s.  No. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, it doesn't matter.  After everybody has pitched the first five games, there is no more No. 1, you just keep going.  So I don't care about being the oldest guy, oldest pitcher or starter or whatnot there.  I'm just going to do -- I'm going to spread my knowledge and learn from these guys and get to know these guys.  And I'm excited to get to know them.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT