LPGA STATE FARM CLASSIC
July 18, 2008
Sherri Turner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JASON TAYLOR: Sherri, thanks for joining us. Great round out there. Great run yesterday and today. Talk a little bit about what happened today.   
 SHERRI TURNER: Well, it was kind of nice because I actually just kind of picked up where I left off yesterday, which is very pleasing to me. I maybe hit a few shots closer to the hole today.   
 Let's see, you want me to go through my round?   
 JASON TAYLOR: Yeah.  
 SHERRI TURNER: You guys are going to have to bear with me, because I get some of the holes confused. 7 is really like 16 or whatever. I started on 10 today and just made a 2-putt par there.   
 Then 11 I made a putt from about 30 feet for birdie.   
 12, Par 4. Just 2-putted for par there.   
 13, Par 5, I actually hit my 3-wood on the green and made the putt from about 12 feet. So made eagle there. That always gives you a little jump start in your round. I made one of those yesterday too on the other side, which is always nice.   
 2-putted for par on 14. 2-putted for par on 15. 16 was a little disappointing because it was a Par 5 and I hit my tee shot pin high right. I was just into the rough. I didn't hit my chip as close as I would've liked, but I missed about and 8-foot putt for birdie there, so I made par there.   
 17 I made a good two-putt for par, Par 3. Then 18, 2-putt for par.   
 Then I made the turn and I also parred the first hole, which was a little disappointing because it's a Par5. I don't think I birdied that hole yesterday either. But No. 2, Par 3. I made a putt. I hit a 9-iron there about ten feet from the hole and made that putt.   
 No. 3, I 2-putted for par.   
 4, 2-putted for par. 5, I made a good save. I missed the green left and chipped -- the ball was sitting really down in the grass. I hit a really good shot about two feet from the hole and made par there, so that kind of kept me going.   
 Then No. 6, 2-putt for par. I think had a pretty good chance there for birdie. Wait a minute. That's a Par 5. I made birdie on that hole. I hit my drive off into the rough on the right. I hit a good recovery shot and then hit a wedge about 15 feet and made that for birdie.   
 No. 7 I hit a really good shot there, an 8-iron to about nine feet, but I did not make that putt. Then No. 8, I got a really good break on No. 8. I don't know if you guys are familiar with the course or not, but No. 8 is a big dog leg to the right. I hit a good tee shot, but the wind was blowing left to right and it was kind of pushing my ball to the right. I hit the cart path and the ball ended up like 45 yards from the green. So made a routine birdie there. Hit it up about five feet from the hole and made birdie there.   
 No. 9, I 2-putted for par there. So 66, 66. It's been a long time since I shot two 66s back to back.   
 JASON TAYLOR: Questions for Sherri.   
  
  Q. That's what I was going to ask. I mean, can you remember the last time two rounds in a row...  
 SHERRI TURNER: I really can't. I mean, I can remember one year I shot 63 and then I think I followed it maybe with a 70. So what's that, 11-under?   
 No, I would say this is probably the two best back to back rounds maybe I've ever had. That's saying a lot for me, as long as my career has been.   
 I can't really explain it. I actually debated about coming here. You're not going to be happy to hear this, but I didn't play well here last year. I'm thrilled that I came here, because it's just totally different golf course. We all know that. Except for you because you weren't here last year.   
 Last year it was very firm and very dry. When I went out and played my practice round this year I was so happy I decided to come here, because it's such a different golf course.   
 I mean the greens are still maybe a little softer than we would all hope for, except the players that are shooting low scores. They're gonna love it. But the fairways are beautiful and the course is fabulous. It's in wonderful, wonderful condition. It's a very, very much fun course.   
 I didn't remember that from last year. It wasn't that I played bad last year, I just remember there were a couple holes that gave me problems last year. When I look back I realize maybe I was not hitting the right club off the tee or something.   
 Anyway I'm really happy to be here.  
  
  Q. Outside you mentioned this could be or is your final year on the tour. Talk but satisfaction of having these last two days.   
 SHERRI TURNER: Well, last year I had talked about retiring at the end of year. At the end of year I ended up exempt. I thought, Well, what am I going to do? I might as well play. So I have decided for sure this is going to be my last year on tour.   
 It's not that I'm quitting because I don't think I can play anymore. It's just everything else that goes with tour life. I think after 25 years, the traveling and having to get up at 4:30 some mornings when my body is just not quite up to that. Just the preparation to play well. You know, just practicing and having to practice to play well.   
 I've had a couple injuries and I still have a bad shoulder, and I know that I have to do certain things to maintain a certain level. Even to be able to compete I know there are certain things I have to do to be able to do that. I have just decided that it's time.   
 There are so many young girls out here and I love them all. But at 51, I'm the oldest player out here that plays competitively week in and week out. I love playing and I'm going to miss it tremendously, but I have just decided it's time.  
  
  Q. Being the oldest player, does it make it that much sweeter to have rounds like that?  
 SHERRI TURNER: Absolutely.  
  
  Q. Does it make scores like this even better?  
 SHERRI TURNER: Absolutely. I knew that I could do it, but actually be being able to do it and thinking you can do it, two totally different things.   
 I have to add one other thing. I'm friends with Kenny Perry, and I have to say that he has inspired me this year the way he's played the last six or seven weeks. I'm very proud of him and all the decisions that he's made. I think sticking to his guns is wonderful.   
 Just knowing that he -- and, I mean, I haven't had any doubt in his abilities because we all know he can play. We just weren't sure how he was going to do after his injury. But having seen him play as well, I'm like, You know what, if he can do it so can I. So I have to say that he has definitely inspired me.  
  
  Q. You've been through it one or two times in your career, but the cut is going to be pretty low here. What does a player do now for the rest of the day? What's it like waiting to find out what that cut is?   
 SHERRI TURNER: Well, fortunately I'm not really worried about the cut now being at my swell. That's the good thing if you're sitting there at minus two or minus three.   
 But to be honest with you, I have not looked at the scores. I do know that they're low. Really I'm not really concerned obviously about what the cut is. I'm just going to try to keep going the things that I have done the last two days.   
 Yesterday after I played, I mean, I had a late tee times so as soon as I was done we left the course and went back to the hotel and relaxed. Did not think about today's round at all.   
 I'm not going to tell you that I'm not going to be thinking about tomorrow's round. I wish that I could honestly tell you that. I'm sure that I will be thinking about tomorrow's round because, you know, I haven't shot two 66s back to back. I've played well the first two days of events before, but it's different. I haven't been in this position in a long time.   
 I'm just going to do my best to keep doing the things that I'm doing and enjoy being there and thinking, you know, this could be the last time I'm in that position. Just keep doing -- playing one game at a time, which is the way my caddie and I do it. Instead of one hole we play one game at a time. We play one game at a time, which is one hole.   
 We play 18 games. The reason we do that is because if I have a bad hole I have to forget about that game and move on to the next game. I call it one game at a time and it's working this week, so who knows.  
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Sherri, say we're looking 36 holes ahead and you do emerge the winner. Would you come back to Springfield next year and defend your title.   
 SHERRI TURNER: You asked that question, didn't you? Yes you did. Yes, I would. Okay? Yes, I would. I'm not completely walking away from golf. I'm going to continue to play on the senior tour. We only have a handful of events. But, yes, you know, the good Lord willing, if I win this event I'll be back next year for sure. You can count on that.  
  
  Q. For so many years this tournament was at the Rail. I remember I talked to you a number of years ago about how tournaments like this have been here for so long and have been here for the tour. You've played here not every single year but a lot of years.   
 SHERRI TURNER: Yes.  
  
  Q. Two more days of golf. I mean, gosh, what would that mean to win a tournament, especially this tournament?   
 SHERRI TURNER: It would mean a lot. There's not even a handful of events that I think of when -- it's going to be very difficult to walk away from. And Ashley, I'm not going to start crying again. I promise.   
 This event is one of them, Corning is one of them, Rochester is one of them, and maybe Toledo. The reason being, of course, is because those are four of, if not our longest running events on tour that the players have supported year in and year out.   
 Maybe the money hasn't increased as much as maybe some of the other purses, but they've been here year in and year out. That's one of the things I have tried to stress to the younger players. Support the events that have supported us.   
 Unfortunately we don't get all the top players to Springfield or all the top players to Corning. I can't say why they don't come. You know, but this has definitely been one of our longest running events and one of our better events in my opinion.  
  
  Q. Obviously you're in a situation where you don't have to worry about making the cut, but those weeks over the years when you're on the bubble, that's got to be -- I guess it's part of the job, but is it pretty stressful?  
 SHERRI TURNER: It's tough, especially if you go back to the room and start watching the computer. That's one of the things you have to try to stay away from if you're on the bubble. It changes so many times. Minus two then it goes to minus three. I can remember a lot of Friday afternoons going to a movie or just going shopping or something just to try to stay away from watching that computer.   
 Have to control or it. And believe me, I have had my fair share of Friday afternoons watching the computer and wondering what the cut is going to be.   
  
  Q. You're 51. The tour gets younger and younger all the time. Players that are younger than you say, Gosh, I wouldn't have known what to do if I came out here when I was 18. You've seen a lot of evolutions over the years.   
 SHERRI TURNER: Absolutely. Today I played with I think Young Jo is 23 or 24 maybe, and Hwanhee -- I'm not sure, but I think at the oldest the same age.   
 Believe me, the last few years I've played with a lot of 18 and 19 year olds. The first year that Morgan Pressel was on tour I was paired with her and Michelle Wie. I had a yardage book that was older than Michelle was. I actually showed it to her. I said, What year were you born? And she said '91 or '92. And I said, Look at my yardage book. It said 1991 on it. She got a kick out of that.   
 But it's been fun, because I have a lot of nicknames out here. A lot of girls call me Aunt Sherri and a lot of girls call me grandma. But it's better to be called something than nothing. It's fun to play with the young girls. It's amazing.   
 The two that I played with today I had never played with Hwanhee. She didn't play well. She struggled. Maybe she learned something from the old one. I don't know. But it's fun, because when I first came out on tour I was a 27-year-old rookie. We don't have many of those anymore.   
 When you talk 27 years old, a lot of the girls been out here seven, eight, and nine years by then. They're tour veterans by then and not a rookie.   
 When I came out I was very much in awe of a lot of players. Now a lot of the girls come out here and all they want to know is where is the first tee. They're ready to go. It's really interesting to see how it has evolved.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT