LPGA NW ARKANSAS CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JOHN Q. HAMMONS
September 7, 2007
Sherri Turner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Thanks for coming in, great round out there, you shot a 5-under 67.  You want to talk about your round out there despite the conditions?   
 SHERRI TURNER:  Sure.  I started on No. 10 and I started out with a bogey but it really wasn't a bad -- I didn't really do anything bad there other than I hit a bad chip.  I hit two good shots and it was playing into the wind and we didn't -- we thought there was more winds than there was, so I hit a shot and it went over the green and made bogey there.   
 Second hole, 2-putt par.   
 Third hole, hits a 9-iron and missed the green just to the left and couldn't decide whether to chip or put and I putted and it was a bad decision.  The ball went maybe ten feet so I made a stupid decision there.   
 But after that, things got a lot better thank goodness.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  3-putt?   
 SHERRI TURNER:  It was a 3-putt, but it wasn't on the green, so I count it as a 3-putt.   
 Routine putt on 11, 2-putt par.   
 13, the par 5, I hit it in two and the pin was way, way back.  The officials were very generous to us today moving the tees up, because I'm telling you, it was a mess.  I actually had a very good chance for eagle there and just missed it probably 15 feet.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  What club did you use?   
 SHERRI TURNER:  Driver, 3-wood.   
 14, I hit an 8-iron about 12 feet and made the putt.   
 18, I hit my mid wedge to about ten feet and made -- no, no, I made a long putt there.  I made a very long putt there, probably 40 feet.  It was interesting because No. 17 and 18, we all three birdied.  We wondered if it ever happened, all three players birdied both holes.   
 No. 2, I made a long putt there, about a 30-foot putt there.   
 No. 3, they had the pin tucked over to the right and the wind was swirling there.  All three of us came up short of the green and I think we all hit the wrong club actually.  I made a good chip and saved par there so that kept my momentum going.   
 I birdied 4, made about a 12-foot putt there with an 8-iron.   
 6, 3-putted.   
 Par No. 8, I had one of these (indicating a foot).  Those are fun, with a 9-iron, one foot.  Those are fun when you can tap it in.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  And how does it feel to come in here after the first 18 holes and be one stroke out of the lead.   
 SHERRI TURNER:  It's a great feeling.  You know, it was a weird day and nobody probably had any clue.  Half the field, over half the field is still out there.  And there may be a better score than 6-under, who knows, after the first round.   
 But it makes for a long day, for everybody.  And I was very fortunate in the fact that I was early but I was late enough to where I never went to the range until it was time for me to go and I didn't warm up two or three times like some of the girls did.  So that was the nice part.  Yes, I did get up at 5:30 but everything else was okay.   
 Very strange day.  I tell you, with my game this year I've never really known what's going to happen one day to the next so I'm very excited.  What else can I say?   
  
  Q.  At 6,239 yards, was the course playing a little shorter today with some of the tees?   
 SHERRI TURNER:  You know, it probably played right at that, being so wet.   
  
  Q.  If you reached two par 5s in two, are you still among the longer hitters out here?   
 SHERRI TURNER:  Yes, I would say the top 25 percent.  I was reaching No. 13, the par 5, I was reaching that in the practice rounds in two.  They only moved it up like ten or 15 yards.   
 And then 7, first day I played that hole I had 210 to the front so I thought, okay, I can probably get home here.  But then we decided because where the tee was, you had to hit an awfully good driver, get down there and get past that corner to be able to go for it.   
 My caddie and I had actually talked about playing 3-wood off the tee, play it as a three-shot hole because if you miss it to the right at all you're blocked by the tee and they moved up the tee probably 15 yards.  It was just enough for me and my caddie said, "Take your driver and blow it past everything."  I did hit it down there past the bunker on the left.   
 So, you know, my strategy changed on some holes because of the rain but it was pretty much the same.  And there will be players that will be reaching those two holes in two.   
  
  Q.  Because the Tour guide doesn't tell me, are you 50 or 51?   
 SHERRI TURNER:  50.  Somebody said I was 51 this morning and I was mad at them.  I will be 51 in October, so close enough.  Close enough.   
  
  Q.  How did you spend the time today when you were waiting for play to start?   
 SHERRI TURNER:  We had one delay before I came, I went to the putting green and putted for probably 20 minutes and went inside and made myself be really careful about eating too much.  Usually on a day like this, you know, breakfast was there, and next thing you know, 30 minutes later lunch is there.  So you have to be really, really careful about not eating too much.  But there were girls I know who warmed up three times, and that is hard.  It's really difficult.  And I've been in that position before.   
  
  Q.  There have been years where you won multiple times.  What's the most you've won?   
 SHERRI TURNER:  I've only had three wins.  And two of them are back-to-back, 1988.  You remember 1988.  Anyway, that was my best year on Tour and I had 17 Top 10's that year.  Sometimes you think, wow -- it was a good year, you think, man, if I could have that at this point in your career, how much more money you could make.  But you have to be appreciative of how far you've come, too, very much so.   
 By the way, I did see Kristy McPherson's name at the top and it did inspire me.  Kristy is almost like my little sister, you know.  One of the things that I've done this year, and of course a lot of girls call me "Grandma," and I'm okay with that, because I really am.    
  
  Q.  Your caddie called you that the other day.   
 SHERRI TURNER:  She was just teasing.  She does it because everybody else does it, you know.   
 Kristy is a great kid.  She's from South Carolina where I'm from, and the first opportunity I had to meet her, I told her, if there were any questions -- I knew she had a big sister because Angela Stanford is her big sister in the Big Sister whatever program, but she's sort of had two this year.  We sort of feed off of each other when we play well.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Great day for both of you so far.  Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT