LPGA CORNING CLASSIC
May 27, 2005
Sherri Turner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOEL LAMP:  We've got Sherri Turner here in the interview room, our current leader 1 under par today.  Let's start off, we'll go over your score card.  You teed off on

No. 10 and birdied No. 11.
SHERRI TURNER:   I actually putted in from off the fringe, so that was a bonus there.  I think I hit a 7 iron in there and was a little above the hole and putted in from off the fringe.

13, I hit a really good drive, but mis hit my second shot and I chipped it in, so I was very pleased with that.  I chipped in from the front of the green.
JOEL LAMP:  What did you hit in there?
SHERRI TURNER:  9 iron.
JOEL LAMP:  You made the turn at 2 under, 8 under par for the tournament, and then bogeyed 1 and 2.
SHERRI TURNER:  No. 1, I hit the green and three putted.  I left my first putt probably eight or ten feet short.  That was a new pin.  I don't remember it ever being there.  We all kind of struggled with it in our group.  I think we all made bogeys there.  I think we all three putted the green.
JOEL LAMP:  How far was your first putt?
SHERRI TURNER:  I was 35 feet or 40 feet short of the hole and then left my putt maybe six or seven feet short.

The second hole was just disastrous from the start.  I hit my tee shot left, tried to hit a shot I probably shouldn't have tried to hit, but I thought I could reach the green still, and hit it left.  I decided to just punch it out into the fairway thinking I could still make a 5.  I hit my pitch probably 15, 20 feet past, made bogey.  I was glad to get off that hole.  That was tough.
JOEL LAMP:  You recovered with a birdie at No. 5.
SHERRI TURNER:  Yes, I actually almost made an eagle there.  I hit my 6 iron in there and hit it really nice and went past the hole.  I had about probably a 30 footer, made birdie there, 2 putt birdie.

Then I think I just parred in from there.  I think I hit the greens from there and just 2 putted the rest of the way.

It was a little bit of a different round today.  It was interesting because there was no wind, but I wasn't quite hitting the ball as crisp today, especially in the middle of the round; I lost it for a few holes.  The biggest difference, other than those two holes, was maybe my putting.  Yesterday I made more putts than I made today.  That's basically it.
JOEL LAMP:  Questions?
Q.  (No microphone.)
SHERRI TURNER:  I think I shot my low round the second day in '88.  I don't know if you guys have looked back in the record books or not.  I shot a 63 and I think it was the second day.  I don't know.  I would say that    well, 63.  Yesterday I played well, I putted well.  Today, a little bit of a struggle and my putting was not as good.  So I would say that's probably the difference.  My putting was not quite as good today.  I remember in '88 that I made a lot of putts when I shot 63, although I did have one 3 putt, I remember that, because it was my next to last hole.
Q.  (No microphone.)
SHERRI TURNER:  I'm very pleased with where I am right now.  This is the kind of course    I mean, you have to play every shot.  You can't fall asleep on any shot on this course, whether it's a putt or off the tee or into the green.  I'm trying to just do that.  I'm just trying to play one shot at a time.

Today on No. 2 I probably got a little bit ahead of myself, thinking I can still make a birdie and I need to get it down there, and I probably should have played smart and played for par.

I think my game    you know, I obviously haven't been playing as consistent as I was when I came here in '88, but I feel good about where my game is now.
Q.  (No microphone.)  Do you think that helped you at all?
SHERRI TURNER:  I think it probably did.  I got off to a good start today.  I had some opportunities today that I missed, too.  I hit it close on 14, but I was above the hole.  I was maybe 5 feet there and I missed that putt for birdie.  I made some good putts for par saves.

Yes, I definitely was glad I had an early start today, because when you play well and you haven't played well in a while, you know, and you have more time to think about what you did, you don't really want to do that.  I was very happy that I had an early tee time today.  I think it's very scoreable out there today and I think you're going to see some low scores, whether it's Annika or someone else.

I don't really know what anyone else is doing from the morning round.  It's very scoreable.  It's just a matter of getting the ball off the tee.
Q.  (No microphone.)
SHERRI TURNER:  What do you mean?  Like playing early?
Q.  Is it helpful?
SHERRI TURNER:  Yes, because I think we were pretty lucky today, this morning.  I don't know what the forecast is for the afternoon, but I know that originally it was for rain in the afternoon and I was pretty pleased.  I was thinking I had a good tee time the first two days, for sure.
Q.  (No microphone.)
SHERRI TURNER:  Well, I'm going to go have some lunch and regroup and figure out what I need to work on.  I definitely need to go hit a few balls and a few putts.  I feel pretty good about where I am.

This afternoon I have to return some things at the mall I bought a few days ago and see if I can get a new cell phone, since my Sprint phone service is not working here.  And I know they have a Sprint store in the mall, so I'm going to go over there and maybe upgrade my phone.  Forget about golf for a few hours this afternoon.
Q.  (No microphone.)
SHERRI TURNER:  It's really nice, especially being here.  I feel good about being here and playing well.  I can draw on my good memories being here and playing well.  I've played well here a lot of years.  Other than winning, I've had a lot of good finishes, and I'm looking forward to the weekend.  I think it will be fun.
JOEL LAMP:  Thanks a lot, Sherri.  Good luck.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT