LPGA CORNING CLASSIC
May 26, 2005
Sherri Turner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOEL LAMP:  We've got co leader Sherri Turner here in the interview room, 6 under par 66.  Let's start off by going over your score card.  Eagle on No. 2 to get started.
SHERRI TURNER: I made probably a 35 foot putt there, so that's kind of nice to start out your round like that.
JOEL LAMP:  What did you hit in?
SHERRI TURNER:   I hit 6 iron in there.  That hole, it just depends on the day and the conditions, it sort of plays like a par 4, but some days it plays like a par 5, today it was kind of like a par 4.
Q.  You followed that up with a birdie on No. 5.
SHERRI TURNER:  Yes, and that's the same as No. 2.  I hit a really good drive there, and I had like a 6 iron in there and I missed the green and didn't make a great chip, but made a 15 foot putt there.  That was a bonus.
JOEL LAMP:  You close out the front nine with birdies on 8 and 9.
SHERRI TURNER:   8, I had a tap in with my sand wedge.  I hit it about a foot from the hole.

9, I made about a 15 footer.  I hit a pitching wedge in there.
JOEL LAMP:  Followed that up with another birdie at 11.
SHERRI TURNER: I hit a 7 iron about eight or nine feet past the pin.  That was probably one of my best putts of the day right there.
JOEL LAMP:  The loan hiccup in your round was a bogey on 15.
SHERRI TURNER:  I was trying to play smart there.  I thought would I rather be long or short on this hole.  I hit a shot and it was short of the green.  And then I don't know what happened on my first putt.  I closed my eyes or fell asleep or something.  I left it 10 feet short of the hole and missed the putt there.

I came back on 16 with another tap in.  That was kind of good there.
JOEL LAMP:  What did you hit in on 16?
SHERRI TURNER: I hit my wedge.
JOEL LAMP:  15, what was the club on the tee?
SHERRI TURNER:  Pitching wedge.
JOEL LAMP:  6 under par 66, not too shabby today.  You're sitting on top of the leaderboard after one day.  Just your thoughts on the round in general.
SHERRI TURNER:  I'm obviously very pleased with the way I played.  I've been working on some things with my swing.  Last year I didn't get to play that much.  I think I only played eight tournaments.  I've been having some problems with my shoulder and had to make some adjustments with my swing.

I'm not going to say I'm totally surprised I played this well today.  I mean, I love coming to Corning, and you guys all know that.  I feel like if my game is going to come together, this is where it should come together.

I had one really bad break today and then I had a good break that made up for it.  But on 14, I actually hit the pin on my third shot, okay?  And it went off the green into the rough.  If it hadn't hit the pin, it would have been pretty close to the hole.  But I was really happy to make par there.

On 16, I pull hooked my tee shot off the tee and it went around the trees and came out into the fairway.  I thought, "Okay, I'm square now."

I don't know, I just felt really peaceful and really at ease out there today.  Like I said, I have a lot of good memories from here.  Last year was a tough year for me because I actually lost my dog during this week.  So that was a tough week last year.  I've looked forward to coming back here since last year and hoping that I could play well here.
JOEL LAMP:  Questions.
Q.  (No microphone.)
SHERRI TURNER:  Last weekend at Wykagyl, I started hitting good shots.  I've got a new driver and a new putter in my bag.  I played with both of them last week and both of them this week.  But my putting was good today.  And you know, it's like when I started making putts, I started having good memories of making putts on these greens.

These greens can be difficult.  It all depends on where your ball ends up on the green.  It might have a lot of break or a fast putt, but you have to learn these greens.  You have to learn which putts you can go for and which putts you have to try to lag close to the hole.

I struggled really badly with my wedges last week.  I worked on my wedges some this week and I feel good with my wedges.  You obviously need your wedge game this week because there are a lot of holes you're going to hit your wedge on here if you get a good tee shot.  I think that's the main difference.
Q.  Having played here for many years, how much does it help to have played in every condition imaginable at this course?
SHERRI TURNER:  I have played every condition imaginable here.  I remember one year it was sleeting during this tournament on Sunday.  It was unbelievable.  It truly helps.  They were so right about the wind, because on one hole it was like you would tee off and it would be downwind, and then you would get to your shot to hit into the green and the wind would be totally coming at you or going one way or the other.  My caddie and I, we were commenting on how much it changed throughout the day.  It was just incredible.

I think it helps a lot to know the conditions.  Like you said, I've played in this tournament    '84 was my first year.  I'll tell you guys that.  I think I missed it one year.  I've played in every possible condition here.  It was very tricky today.  It was very tricky.  I think my caddie and I did a good job of picking the right clubs and that was important.
Q.  (No microphone.)
SHERRI TURNER:  I'm not planning on changing anything.  As a matter of fact, I'm really glad I'm playing early because I won't have much time to think about it.  Go have dinner, watch a couple of hours of TV, fall asleep, get up and come right back out here.  I'm hoping that's going to work in my favor.
Q.  (No microphone.)
SHERRI TURNER:  It's been a long time.  You mean like to be tied for the lead after the first round?  I don't know, I would probably have to look back in the record books.  It's been a while.  My last best finish was the Open.  I think it was 2001 at Pine Needles.  I finished fourth.  That was my last best finish.  I can't tell you, to tell you the truth.
Q.  (No microphone.)
SHERRI TURNER:  I did notice that.  And when I first got here, or else when I first teed off, I noticed that Kelli Kuehne was a couple under.  I don't know how she finished, but I did know Laurie played well.  She shot 3 under.

People will tell you that they really don't watch the leaderboard, but you have to watch the leaderboard, because what are you going to do all day out there when the leaderboard is staring you right in the face.  And it's nice to see names up there of some of the older players.
Q.  (No microphone.)
SHERRI TURNER:  It was kind of interesting, because, to tell you the truth, I didn't really know until I got on my third hole what anyone shot from the morning round.  All I heard was Annika made a 3 on 14, and then at one point she was 5 under.  So I assumed she was leading, you know, because usually when she gets to 5 under, she goes, 6, 7, 8, you know.  I just assumed she was leading.

When I saw the board and saw that Sophie    I think Sophie was finished at that time and had shot 6 under, and actually Annika was finished too.  Is 3 in second place or is 3 in third?  Is there somebody at 4?
JOEL LAMP:  No, not any more.
SHERRI TURNER:  So two 6s and a 3.  Did someone get to 4?
JOEL LAMP:  Laurie was at 4 for a while.
SHERRI TURNER:  When I saw the scores and I saw that Annika finished at 3, I thought it must be tough out here, the conditions must be difficult, and they were.  I'm not going to say they weren't.  There were times today when the wind almost completely died and then it picked back up again.  So it was kind of a strange day.  So this morning, I don't know if it blew all morning or what, but I know when I got up and looked out my hotel room at 8:30, it was blowing then, and I'm assuming it was blowing all morning.
Q.  Being in the lead is obviously nice for you, but being in the lead over Annika, does that add to it?
SHERRI TURNER:  Annika is in a different league, completely.  When I was walking from my 9th green to my 10th green, some older guy went, "Who's Annika?"  Or something like that.  Annika is in her own league.  She's the type of player that any day she can shoot 62.  Really, honestly, I'm not really thinking, Wow, I beat Annika by three strokes today or anything like that.  I would never think that, because I know what her capabilities are.  I just have to think about what I did today and not compare it to somebody else, keep it in perspective.
Q.  (No microphone.)
SHERRI TURNER:  Well, yes, she's going to be a great player.  She has distance, she has a good iron game, she is a good putter, and you know, I think that you have to attribute that to youth.  I think if she played this tournament a few more times that there would be certain things she did today that she wouldn't do.  I saw her hit a drive on 16.  She hit her driver.  I'm not saying she's the only one that hit her driver there.  The only time I've hit my driver there    I'm not saying you should do what I do, but it was when I was really mad and I walked to the tee and said to my caddie, "Give me my driver," like that, which really isn't smart.  I was surprised to see her pull her driver there.  And one time she went to putt out and missed a real short putt.  I just think that's youth.  That will be the things she will learn from.

And we've all been there.  At 48 years old, I still learn things about myself every day.  I'm sure she'll learn something from that.  But she's going to be a great player.  I failed to ask her if she had ever played in a Tour event before.  And I don't know if she has or not.
JOEL LAMP:  She played at Kraft.
SHERRI TURNER:  I know Duke just one the NCAA, because I was talking to her about it, and I don't really know.  I failed to ask where she finished.  I figured she finished toward the top because I know they had some strong players.  She's only a sophomore or so.  She's going to do well.
Q.  How big of a factor was the wind for you?
SHERRI TURNER:  It was definitely a factor because it was swirling all day.  And we commented on it more than once that it changed two or three times during the same hole.  Everybody played in it, and I figured that that was probably the reason there were not more low scores.
Q.  Was there a time the wind died down?
SHERRI TURNER:  There was a time period for maybe three holes where we didn't have any wind, at least it didn't seem like there was any.  But then it picked up.  And when it picked up, it came in the totally opposite direction it had been blowing.  It was definitely playing some mind games with you.
Q.  (No microphone.)
SHERRI TURNER:  I think I made 3 pars.
Q.  What's your tee time tomorrow?
SHERRI TURNER: 8:10.
Q.  (No microphone.)
SHERRI TURNER:  You know what?  I don't sleep good anyway.  I think that's an age thing, too.  I hope I'll be able to sleep.  I'm sure I'll think about it a little bit.  But hopefully I've been there enough times to be able to sleep.
Q.  (No microphone.)
SHERRI TURNER:  I remember.  It's been a lot of years, but at the same time I can remember like it was yesterday.
Q.  (No microphone.)
SHERRI TURNER:  Well, I remember most about shooting my 63, I think it was the second day or third day, I don't remember which it was, how I had a little hiccup even in that round, I three putted No. 17 and I was a little upset with myself, and I was like, "Oh, whatever."  I sort of felt like I paid my dues at this tournament before I won, because my first year that I came here I had a chance to win.  I was in the last group the last day, and I played with Big Mama the last day and she won.  I actually learned some things from her that day.

But I'll never forget, when I first got my Tour card, I heard, "Wait until you go to Corning."  So I got here and it was just amazing, everything about it, in particular, the fans.  I just felt, especially as a young player, they were so supportive of me and all the young players.

And then the other thing that I'll never forget is, I was fortunate enough to be playing with her when she won the tournament on Sunday.  And this little plane flew over that said, "Corning loves Big Mama."  I thought that is the most awesome thing I've ever seen in my life.  To me, that was incredible.  I can't even imagine what she must have felt like, because I'm like, that was just unbelievable.  I've always loved coming here.
Q.  You said you lost your dog?
SHERRI TURNER:  Last year during this week.
Q.  How long did you have your dog?
SHERRI TURNER:  For 12 years.  She traveled on Tour with me for 12 years.  And I had her here the first year that I got her.  And last year, she had been a little sick before I came here.  And I had been to the vet the week before, and you know, it's kind of hard when you are on the road with yourself being sick, much less with a pet.  But I remember taking her over to the vet here.  And they said, "Well, I think we need to do a chest x ray."  And they did a chest x ray and she was covered with cancer.  So she had been struggling.  And the vet said, "You have two options."  I said, "What do you think?"  She said, "She's really struggling."  So, you know, I didn't feel I had a chase in the matter.

And it happened    I had to do it between the first and second round.  And I played bad the first day.  I'm not going to say it was because of that, but it was certainly on my mind, because I knew it was going to happen.
Q.  What kind was she?
SHERRI TURNER:  She was a Silky Terrier.  Her name was Cagey.  I have a new dog now.  She's not with me this week, but I have a new dog
Q.  What kind of dog?
SHERRI TURNER:  I have a Cairn Terrier now.  They're feisty, any Terrier is.  They are a lot of fun, though.
JOEL LAMP:  Thanks a lot, Sherri.  Congratulations.
SHERRI TURNER:  Thank you.  I hope I see you guys tomorrow.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT