MLB ALL-STAR GAME
July 13, 2004
Alfonso Soriano
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  This has been some year for you, being traded from the Yankees, you said that was one of the worst moments of your life.  Can you just talk about how things have changed in the last six months for you? 
 
ALFONSO SORIANO:   Yes, a lot of changes with me in my life.  But, you know, you have to take everything, you know, is possible.  I'm so happy that I'm to be part of the group, the Texas Rangers and the MVP tonight.  You know, sometimes things happen for a reason and I'm so happy right now that I got the MVP tonight.  
 
Q.  How did it feel in the dugout when your former manager and eight New York Yankees?
 
ALFONSO SORIANO:   I feel tonight, honest, like I'm coming back to play for the Yankees because having Joe Torre manager, Jeter at short, Giambi at first.  You know I feel like I'm back playing for the Yankees. 
 
Q.  How did it feel to hit a home run off of Roger Clemens who was your teammate last few years?
 
ALFONSO SORIANO:  I feel a little sorry because he's been nice to me all the time, but, you know, I had to do my job in the game.  I'm sorry, but, you know, I'm happy right now.  (Smiling). 
 
Q.  With five Rangers in the game and you get the MVP, do you think you showed the world that the Rangers are a legitimate first-place club? 
 
ALFONSO SORIANO:   You know, I think that everybody now, they see what the guys on the team, we have five good players in the All-Star Game and we have a lot of young talent.  So we are good playing in the first half and I hope everybody be consistent and healthy and keep going in the second half. 
 
Q.  How did your teammates like Michael and Hank react to you being named MVP?
 
ALFONSO SORIANO:   I think they are happy because they always are nice to me.  They are young and they are always with me, stay close to me, so I think they are happy, and everybody in the clubhouse, too.  
 
Q.  Obviously with the trade for A-Rod, the MVP, he has a much higher profile, do you think a performance like tonight will raise your profile everywhere among fans? 
 
ALFONSO SORIANO:   My performance tonight, I'm pretty happy tonight, getting MVP.  I think he's doing his job with the Yankees and I'm doing my job in Texas.  I'm happy for him but happy for me, too.  
 
Q.  Would you describe your home run, what you hit, and how it felt, whether you knew whether it was going out?
 
ALFONSO SORIANO:   You know, I hit a split; the only thing I know, I think that's what they were throwing.  
 
Q.  Alfonso's mother has come into the room and I'm wondering if you have anything to say to your mother, how proud she must be of you?
 
ALFONSO SORIANO:   Everything is for her because I'm working hard for her and my family.  I'm so happy that I could do this tonight for her. 
 
Q.  Have you thought about the possibility of playing in New York in the playoffs; would that mean a lot to you to play the Yankees in the post-season? 
 
ALFONSO SORIANO:   No, second half is coming, we have to make the playoffs first and see what happens.  But, you know, I'm happy now with my team and I'm glad and happy that we'll be in the playoffs this year.   
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT