MLB WORLD SERIES: YANKEES v DIAMONDBACKS
November 2, 2001
Alfonso Soriano
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  What was going through your mind when you made the big defensive play?
 
ALFONSO SORIANO (Through Leo Astacio):   I was making the play.  I could not really think of anything because I was just trying to make the play but once I got to the bench and sat down and thought about it, I realized I made a pretty big play because I saved the team one run, maybe two.  
 
Q.  How infectious, as a rookie, first-time player on the team, how infectious is the confidence all of the other guys have on the team, how infectious is that for you? 
 
ALFONSO SORIANO (Through Leo Astacio):   It's a very big factor.  I see the way these guys carry themselves and they all have a lot of confidence in themselves and that helps me to have a lot of confidence in myself.  I look at myself and say why can't I play like that and be that confident.  As far as being a rookie, they always help me and give me positive feedback, never anything negative, just always try to maintain a positive mind frame. 
 
Q.  It's been an interesting year, you started out in left field and you went to second base and there were a couple of incidents during the year where you had some rough moments.  When did you start feeling comfortable and when did you feel that you belonged on this team? 
 
ALFONSO SORIANO (Through Leo Astacio):   I would say in the second half of the season, I became comfortable and I had total confidence in being a Major League second baseman.  So I would say in the second half of the season is when I became comfortable.  
 
Q.  When you went to right field with the game-winning hit last night, were you trying to do that, and if so, who taught you how to hit?  Where does that come from, knowing how to hit in certain situations? 
 
ALFONSO SORIANO (Through Leo Astacio):   When I came up to bat all I was thinking was to put the ball in play.  I didn't really think about going to right field.  As far as who taught me how to hit in those situations, I would just say, it's opportunities come up in the game.  Last night, it happened to be in a World Series, but I try to view it as it could have happened in a regular-season game, in the middle of the year. 
 
Q.  Obviously there are a lot of guys on this team who have great experience and poise in the post-season.  Are there a couple of guys on the team who you have especially watched or wanted to emulate and who are they and why? 
 
ALFONSO SORIANO (Through Leo Astacio):   As everybody knows, the Yankees have superstars, past and present.  But currently, I like to watch Derek Jeter, Bernie Williams, Mariano, especially in the playoffs because you can see that they give everything for their team.  
 
Q.  The other night after the bunt play, it looked like Bernie Williams took you aside and said something to you; what did he say and what effect did that have on you?
 
ALFONSO SORIANO (Through Leo Astacio):   Bernie was telling me that I'm a good hitter, and that situation, when I have two strikes, I should not try to bunt, I should try to hit the ball and put the ball in play.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT