adidas International
January 6, 2003
Elena Bovina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 

THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Elena, please.


Q.  Obviously, you're very happy?

ELENA BOVINA:  Yes.  I was, you know, I was very happy with my win today, especially beating a Russian girl because we are very competitive with each other.  When we play each other, we always try to, you know, to win.  You know, it's been a tough day for me and Anastasia, I think, because it's pretty tough conditions.  It's windy and it's hot, you know.  So I guess I just  -- I was the first one who just adjusted to those conditions better, you know?  She was just making, I think, a little bit too many errors for her game, unforced errors. 

Q.  You are steadily rising up the rankings.  What's your goal for 2003?

ELENA BOVINA:  Ranking-wise, I don't have a goal.  I just play, you know, I try to do  -- at least I try to do what I've been practicing, you know, what I've been working on last few months.  And if I'm gonna do that, I'm gonna be improving my game.  And, you know, with that, my ranking will be going up.  So I'm more concerned about my game than my rankings. 

Q.  So there's some competitiveness with fellow Russians.  Would it be nice to, say, be the No. 1 Russian player?

ELENA BOVINA:  Oh, definitely.  I think that's one thing that all the girls, all the Russian girls wanted to achieve, is to be No. 1 player in Russia, especially with the amount of girls that we have right now.  It's a really great achievement, and that's what Anastasia did last season.  She did a great job really. 

Q.  You had a little chat to the umpire at the end. 

ELENA BOVINA:  Yeah.  I just wanted to make sure about -- there was a few calls that I didn't really like, and I just wanted to ask something that I wasn't sure about.  I figured that I would just talk to the umpire.  She answered all my questions. 

Q.  Are you playing in the Australian Open?

ELENA BOVINA:  Yes.

Q.  How does this fit into your preparation?

ELENA BOVINA:  It's good, because I had  -- I played last -- few matches last week in Gold Coast, and also this week I'll try to play, you know, obviously as many matches as I can.  And it's a great tournament to prepare for Australian Open.  You know, as I said, I'm very happy that I get to play my next match here. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT