SWINGING SKIRTS LPGA CLASSIC
April 26, 2014
Hee Young Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Here with Hee Young Park.   What was the big difference between yesterday and today for you?
HEE YOUNG PARK:   Definitely weather.   It was freezing yesterday and rainy.   It was bit tough to measure my distance all the time because the wind always switched yesterday, so I been more struggle.   And also like it was wet green, so a lot of like sand on it, on the ball.   So it's been harder with like the putting.
But today weather is perfect, and I just try to do my every single just on my best.   Weather was good.   That was big different compared yesterday and today.

Q.   Kylie said you were putting really well today.   Do you feel the same? 
HEE YOUNG PARK:   Actually, I made a lot of five‑, six‑footer putt yesterday even wet green, so I had confidence from yesterday.
So I try to get really same feeling about yesterday putting feel.   I think that worked. 

Q.   She also mentioned you spent some time on the range.   Was that yesterday or today?
HEE YOUNG PARK:   Yesterday.   I mean, I finished 7:30.   Well, it was 8:15, but I was staying until even darker, 8:30.   They turn on the light, but I make sure, you know, feel correct my proper shot made it, and then I left like maybe last one of the person on the driving range.

Q.   Finally, everyone is really bundled up on this course.   I notice you're in a skirt and not wearing very much.   How do you stay warm out there?
HEE YOUNG PARK:   This skirt actually work really very well because very thick.   Looks like, Oh, my god.   This is short. 
But really thick winter skirt, and then Under Armour stuff on the bottom.
So wind pretty much protect and it's warm.   So it worked pretty good.   Everyone say, Oh, you're not cold? 

Q.   We were wondering the same.   What do you do tonight heading into tomorrow?   You in a great position. 
HEE YOUNG PARK:   Pretty much the same.   Just enjoy, eat dinner.   Obviously right outside of the entrance I have the Korea market, so I always get like Korea food.   I'm staying at a rental house this week so cooking every night, so I'm going to probably do same thing.
All the same. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT