RR DONNELLEY LPGA FOUNDERS CUP
March 15, 2012
Hee Young Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   First off, congratulations, a great round of 7‑under par today.   Currently tied for the lead.   How excited are you with how you played today?   
HEE YOUNG PARK:   Yeah, today I played really good on the fairway.   I hit the fairway and then green, and then lucky thing was most putts, birdie putt was uphill, so that's why I just hit it aggressive and most of the time having positive thinking and then make lots of putts.  
   
 Q.   I know a little bit of a disappointing finish, probably not how you wanted to cap off that round, but what kind of happened on 9?  
HEE YOUNG PARK:   I just missed the one driver shot, No. 18 green.   That's it.   And then most of the shot was perfect, and then I did come through well, and I'm really excited about tomorrow playing.  
   
 Q.   You finished off last season by capturing your first career victory on the LPGA Tour.   Now getting the domestic season of this year off to a great start.   How excited are you about this season and what you hope to accomplish?  
HEE YOUNG PARK:   Yeah, last two events, like at Singapore and Thailand I played really well, and most of the time Top 10, and that's from getting more motivated and confidence.   
Even also last year was really, really big for me.   But you know, I'm just keeping positive thinking and then I'm really getting better to the short game.   That part improve my golf game.  
   
 Q.   Is the short game something that you worked on this off season?   Have you noticed an improvement in it?  
HEE YOUNG PARK:   You know what, after I played last event and then back to Korea and spend with my family two weeks and then back to Orlando, my home, just three weeks.   
So not enough time to fix something, but I just 80 percent working on my putting and chipping around the green.   I think that's really good working right now.  
   
 Q.   And this course does it suit your game?   Is there aspects that you think that helped you to go low today?  
HEE YOUNG PARK:   This is the desert, so my driver more distance and more farther.   So that's lots of help.   And then even greens are hard, but when I hit driver really far and then short irons, getting hit aggressive.   That's the really good for me this golf course.   
   
 Q.   Thank you very much and good luck the rest of the week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT