CME GROUP TITLEHOLDERS
November 19, 2011
Hee Young Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome our current leader, Hee Young Park. Congratulations on a great round today, 3-under par. Can you just take me through what it was like out there today and what was working well for you?   
 HEE YOUNG PARK: Actually two days, first and second round, front nine was really, really well, started first hole, second hole like birdie most times. But today started bogey, made the bogey first time. And then second hole was a little bit struggle, par. And then it was a little bit difficult to play the front nine.   
 But today just be patient, patient, and then back nine finally I just felt my putting distance, so I just trusted and then do my -- visualize my line and just hit, and that was the back nine.   
 THE MODERATOR: I know yesterday you said you would like it if the wind continued today. It wasn't quite so windy today, but did you feel good about the position you put yourself in yesterday by being able to shoot so well in the wind?   
 HEE YOUNG PARK: Yeah, today was a little bit of wind, also, but very difficult pin positions. So I never tried to hit aggressive, just hit only on the middle with the second shot on the green, and then if I had a chance to birdie putt, then focus on that. If not, just not.   
 That plan was really, really works well to me. So yep.   
  
  Q. Are you ready to win? And if so, what makes you feel that way?   
 HEE YOUNG PARK: I don't know, like is that the right sentence. I'm very thirsty, right? Yeah, I'm ready.   
  
  Q. These greens are very challenging. How would you compare these greens to others on the Tour?   
 HEE YOUNG PARK: Actually my caddie and I, during the practice rounds, just a few roll it and then guess the break kind of stuff. But this week just no idea a lot on the greens, so more like trusting my feel, you know. Even I rolled right-to-left two-putt, that area, but it feels like left-to-right, just trust my feel.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT