CME GROUP TITLEHOLDERS
November 18, 2011
Hee Young Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Tougher conditions today?
 HEE YOUNG PARK: Yeah, today was so tough, windy, but it's kind of more challenging, more -- try to more visualize the shot before hitting the shot, and then I tried to just same thing before, like I just look at the ball flight, everything, and try to just under the line. I was fine. 
 Then especially my putt was really, really well. Even yesterday I shoot 1-under, but front nine was just 10 putts yesterday, but today also 11 putts front nine, which is really, really good. And then still a little bit of mistakes the back nine, but really, really tough. So I'm not blaming, just take it. 
 Today still under par, so I'm very happy with it. My goal actually was every day shoot under par, so I'm really, really happy with that.

 Q. Are you a good wind player in general? 
 HEE YOUNG PARK: Yeah, in South Korea has the island, Jeju Island. I played a lot in island, like since amateur and then pro, a lot of like under-the-wind shots, so especially I'm very confident. And then my ball trajectory actually a little lower than other players, I think, my thinking. I think that was a little bit of benefit than other players. Yeah, yeah, everything is good. 

 Q. So if it blows like this two more days, you're in great shape?
 HEE YOUNG PARK: Please (laughing). 

 Q. What did you think about the pairing with Yani today? Had you played with her before?
 HEE YOUNG PARK: Yeah, actually I met her maybe like 12 years ago. We were like grow up together and then competition all the time, national team. I was on Korean national team, and she was on the Taiwan national team. We practiced a lot. And even I visited her house when I visited Taiwan. Yeah, we share a long friendship, so it was fun.

 Q. So you hadn't played together as pros yet? This was the first time?
 HEE YOUNG PARK: Almost two years, yeah, three years, two years, long time. We talked a lot, how's family, Korea, something, other stuff, too. But we had fun. 

 Q. Can you talk about trying to win your first event over here? How much has that been on your mind or are you trying not to think about it? 
 HEE YOUNG PARK: Yeah, I'm not think about any like first time or second time, just own my shot and then prepare, like routine and everything, try to the same, and even pressure on the par putt or birdie putt, it doesn't matter. I never think about that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT