HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
February 27, 2010
Hee Young Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN: Hee Young, thanks for coming in, you shot 3-under 69 today, you're just a few shots behind the leaders. Tell us how you played today.   
 HEE YOUNG PARK: You know, when I was started, make the birdie first hole, feeling very up, like very exciting. But the next hole, too exciting to me, I can't control and made the bogey next hole.   
 So I'm going to think about to keep trying to stay playing, and don't do the aggressive playing, because mostly players, they are tricky -- like tricky shots, but a lot of them made it. So it not really -- you can't do low under par, so I'm just going to keep trying to stay patient and when I have a chance for birdie, then keep focused more on the putts. That's why I hit it so low under par.   
  
  Q. How long was the birdie putt on 17?  
 HEE YOUNG PARK: About nine metres, ten metres. But I saw very similar putt, and I carried the putt over to my marker and so I saw it twice, and then like little waiting and keep trying to putt mine and then made it. So a little bit luck, yeah.   
  
  Q. The leaderboard has every sort of player at the top, young, old, long, short; what is it about the tournament that seems to make it so even for everyone, so fair for everyone?  
 HEE YOUNG PARK: Mostly this week, this is I think -- more patient for the weather and -- and then not focused -- like every hole, so more take advantage and then keep playing by myself something, that's the key I think.   
  
  Q. You've done very well on hole No. 9 for three days; what's with hole 9?  
 HEE YOUNG PARK: Every round, I just make birdie. Last year, I was -- actually second shot I was hitting driver all day and then every shot made it on the green when I hit a good driver.   
 And then good, positive from the previous shot something, and then, yeah, keep trying to do a little bit of the same shot and then easy, like when I get to chipping area, do the same management. So that's why every day make the birdie.   
 And I'm getting improving for the short game, so the No. 9 hole, that's the key, the chipping, because the greens are so wider.   
  
  Q. Today the weather is cooler than the past two days; I'm pretty sure that must have helped the ladies and yourself with the golf game; is that correct?   
 HEE YOUNG PARK: Absolutely. The worst day was yesterday, very hot, not any clouds, just only sun. I wasn't putting hat and then my head getting burned here and now I'm a little sore, but today much better.   
  
  Q. Depending how the leaders do, you should be about two shot behind; what will be your thought before the final round? What's going to be your game plan?   
 HEE YOUNG PARK: When I came here first round, after first round, I keep trying to every day like 3-under, 4-under something, it wasn't working. Tomorrow, not really warming up tomorrow morning, and yeah, keeping to the advantage and more I think the par 5 holes, like No. 9 and No. 15 something, yeah, that's more aggressive playing for the par 5.   
  
  Q. Are you one of these players who loves the final day when you are in contention, or are one of these players who are a little bit shy with their cameras, all the people? What's your approach?  
 HEE YOUNG PARK: You know, I don't care. I don't care about cameras, crowd, something, very exciting, when I made a putt, they love it, like it, so it's getting some good -- and getting better past the hole, so I like that.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Thank you so much for coming in.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT