HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
February 25, 2010
Hee Young Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MIKE SCANLAN: Hee Young, if you want to start off and tell us about some of the good holes you had today, some of the birdies.
 HEE YOUNG PARK: Well, yesterday I played the Pro-Am. I won by 12 shots, it was a scramble. My score was 9-under, nine birdies and no bogeys, so it was still good. It was I think better than Thailand last week. 
 So I was so confident when I went to the first tee, but you know, the tricky greens. It was tricky greens, and a few times, 3-putt, and then it make the bogey. But I keep trying to have positive thinking, visualise shots, and keep trying to do the simple things, and then like after, how many, seven birdies today. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Just talk about how you're playing this year. You came in last week and played pretty well at a tournament you played well before. How do you feel your game is right now? 
 HEE YOUNG PARK: You know, I had winter training in Melbourne and then Korea for like a month exercising. That's not exactly the secret, a lot of exercise, eating well and more, I learned the course management from my coach. So that's why it's more easier to play 18 holes. So that's the difference last year to this year.
 MIKE SCANLAN: What's your coach's name? 
 HEE YOUNG PARK: Steven Bann, he's an Australian guy. He's working more PGA TOUR. 

 Q. What did your Pro-Am partner say to you yesterday as you made all these birdies? 
 HEE YOUNG PARK: They feel like the win, very close, they say keep trying, like about the same on the Pro-Am day. And I say, yes, I will, like, yeah! 

 Q. What do you think of the different holes? 
 HEE YOUNG PARK: Same about to last week, very exciting after one round, and then too much -- the more I keep trying good playing, perfect shots, that should be more pressure for me. So this week, I'm going to more take a break, rest, and more just stretching, exercising to help for my swing. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: How do you like this course here? 
 HEE YOUNG PARK: I like it. I like the course last year, but too difficult for me, because you know, first time playing this course, and then like very hot. I'm not much preparing for this course, but this year, like a lot of management -- very easier than last year. 

 Q. Inaudible
HEE YOUNG PARK: I just want to play just my game, so not really. Doesn't matter who is going to shoot 4-under, 5-under, something. 

 Q. Inaudible. 
 HEE YOUNG PARK: Yeah, say might be close to like raining, so it will be good tee time. That's more helpful for my score. 

 Q. Inaudible. 
 HEE YOUNG PARK: Yeah, more talking about people and talking about my caddie, something like that. It's not talking about nothing, like more pressure, something like that. Yeah, that's good for me. 

 Q. Inaudible. 
 HEE YOUNG PARK: Yeah, yeah, we are going to after this week something and then -- (Inaudible.)
 MIKE SCANLAN: Do you like to talk? 
 HEE YOUNG PARK: I like to talk but I'm not very well speak English, so that's a lot of learning for the English. So I'll keep trying from memory and more learning, I like that. 

 Q. Inaudible. 
 HEE YOUNG PARK: The practise round, the shot, inside putting, but thinking more reminded, and then shot. I'm still trying on every single shot, so that would be positive thinking. 

 Q. Inaudible. 
 HEE YOUNG PARK: Yeah, some of the players like very expensive -- so a letter coming out, but I don't care. I don't care, like, maybe picture a little bit, but you know, like sign something, Top-10, it doesn't matter. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT