LPGA CORNING CLASSIC
May 21, 2009
Hee Young Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN: Let's do your scorecard.   
 HEE YOUNG PARK: Number 2, 30 feet, made a two-putt, the par-5, two-putt, birdie.   
 And then I bogey.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Bogey on 4.   
 HEE YOUNG PARK: Yeah, on 4, lay up to the second shot, and then 50 yards there on and then two-putt.  
 And then No. 5, eight feet to the birdie. And then No. 6, second shot was 108 feet, one putt, birdie. Number 8, 100, 20-foot birdie. And then No. 10, 105 yards, two feet, birdie.   
 And then No. 14, 89 yards to eight feet, birdie. And No. 15, 145 yards, par-3 hole, 10 feet, birdie. And No. 17, 50 yards, two feet, birdie. No. 18, 140 yards, six feet, birdie.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: All right, Hee Young. Nice round today, 8-under par, and you're the leader in the clubhouse by one stroke right now. If you would, just talk about how you played today.   
 HEE YOUNG PARK: It was a great round, like beautiful weather in the morning.   
 And then you know, like before the round, the feel, the warming up, very not well, like sometimes missed shots a lot in the driving range. So I was thinking just today hit it to the fairway and then green to fairway and then green. So very contrary to me, my caddie helped today.   
 After the nine hole, the wind got started. So I was starting, the nose, a lot of cough, but still focused to do my shot, for getting more focus on my shot. I think that helped a little.  
  
  Q. Are you surprised to be here considering you said you were kind of spraying around before and I guess you were saying like maybe allergies or something were bothering you a little bit? Were you surprised that you shot so well considering how things were going out there?  
 HEE YOUNG PARK: You know, actually last week a good finish to the top 10, so getting to feel better, better to better now. And my caddie knows each distance to my iron, like hit it to the draw. They know that.   
 So actually this week not too much practice hitting the ball to the putting, just you know, like in the room, look into the mirror, like that helps.  
  
  Q. Is it part momentum and part just being focused in, I guess?   
 HEE YOUNG PARK: Uh-huh.   
  
  Q. Why do you think there are so many good scores? Is it the conditions of the course? Is it that it's such a quality player field? You have 28 of the top 30 players here this week. Why do you think there are so many good scores?  
 HEE YOUNG PARK: Yeah. Probably much different the weather. Today, like very -- not too hot. Now it's getting hot, but very warmer outside. But last year, very cold. Like feels like very freezee, like not snow, but almost winter. So it is very different.  
 And then getting better the greens out there, the conditions, like good read, good feel. Very true to the greens. So I think so.   
  
  Q. Talk about being in the lead, yet you have -- you'll probably have at least 15 players who are maybe a stroke or two behind you. Does that kind of keep you grounded, I guess, going into tomorrow?  
 HEE YOUNG PARK: Yeah. This is the first time leading, finishing the first round. So it is running through the mind. I think so.   
 So tomorrow I will do the same, keep working with my caddie and just focus the mind, just play.   
 I didn't see on other players' chart, or like score. I didn't see that.   
  
  Q. You don't do much scoreboard watching then?  
 HEE YOUNG PARK: Hunh-uh.   
  
  Q. Do you feel there was any advantage getting out in the morning? Obviously all the low scores are coming from the morning round.   
 HEE YOUNG PARK: Yeah.   
  
  Q. Is there an advantage playing in the morning?  
 HEE YOUNG PARK: I think so. Back 9, getting started into the wind, and then I finished in the last tournament to the putt. So the wind was moving my balls. They're getting stronger, so it's very different the conditions after the round.   
  
  Q. Obviously you have to play in the afternoon tomorrow. Anything that you plan on doing to do any adjustments, or are you going to just continue being aggressive?  
 HEE YOUNG PARK: I think this is still aggressive to hit the ball into play, yeah.   
  
  Q. You're coming off a pretty good showing from last weekend, Top 10 finish. Do you feel like at this point your game is where you want it to be?  
 HEE YOUNG PARK: You know, this week is my birthday, Sunday. So I will try to find myself a present for me. So I just want to keep to the positive thinking and then more visualize my winning, so that will help.   
  
  Q. How old are you going to be?  
 HEE YOUNG PARK: 22.   
  
  Q. Do you have any family members here going to help celebrate with you?  
 HEE YOUNG PARK: No. I just travel with my friend.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Hee Young, thanks for coming in.  
 HEE YOUNG PARK: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT