HONDA LPGA THAILAND
February 27, 2016
Hee Young Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. A very good round.  Did you see that coming?  Did you feel good about it coming into today?
HEE YOUNG PARK: I've been playing pretty good, not even this week, last couple tournaments I've made a lot of birdies.  It just makes some distance from the driver, and I build my irons which really fit on me so it goes longer than compared to any other year, and the short game is getting a lot better.
I mean, the last two years ago I've been struggling with a little bit of shots, so a lot of miss off the green.  And I got some chips, some chipping skills two, three years ago, so now everything is coming together.  Putting's pretty good.  So most of my games is not really problems.  So when I'm feeling better, good, comfortable, even to make six, seven birdies per day, so I think that's the difference.
Q. That's the key?
HEE YOUNG PARK: Yes.
Q. Now you really gained 20 yards?
HEE YOUNG PARK: I think, yeah.  First event was the Bahamas, maybe more than 20 yards.  Now maybe 15 yards compared to last year when I saw the yardage book.
Q. What was the change?  Was it working out or did you change drivers?
HEE YOUNG PARK: Little bit of working out, and the driver shaft I changed it.
Q. What did you change to?
HEE YOUNG PARK: It used to be 44 to 44.5 inches, and I made it a little bit longer and then just try to hit a different shaft and then try to make a trajectory a bit higher.  I think that's a little bit why.
Q. How long is it now?
HEE YOUNG PARK: I don't know.  It used to be like 255 around, but maybe now 265 average, I think.
Q. How long is your shaft?  It was 44.5?
HEE YOUNG PARK: Yeah, 44.5 it used to be, but now it's almost 45, almost an inch.  So it can be a little bit, but it's really good.
Q. What birdies stuck out to you today?  Anything that was noteworthy?
HEE YOUNG PARK: Number 8 definitely it was a hard pin to make even putt.  More like number 16, par-3, it was really tough pin, right side, back pin not really move, but I had a really good up-and-down from the rough, 25 yard shot.  Then that was the really good one and finished strong on No. 18.
Q. Yeah, that had to feel nice finishing off with a birdie?  Got your only bogey, but you regrouped.  How big was that going into tomorrow?
HEE YOUNG PARK: I think that was a lot of meaning to finish No. 18 and make birdies.  Still, first round I had 6 something birdie, yesterday I had 7 birdies, today, 7 birdies.  So I think keep doing, and keep the same thing tomorrow and don't try to push too much tomorrow, and I think it will be --
Q. Don't try too hard?
HEE YOUNG PARK: Yeah, don't try too hard.
Q. You're in great position.  What would a win here tomorrow mean?  Obviously, getting it early in the year, but it's been a little while.  How much would that mean to you?
HEE YOUNG PARK: It's been a lot of working and learning from the golf, even outside of golf, little bit of stress.  But I had a lot of learning like up-and-down score, everything.  So I didn't disappointing that last couple years momentum.  So I'm doing the same thing, trying to build a little, every day a little bit.  I think that's made me be more stronger.
Q. What were some of the goals coming into this year?
HEE YOUNG PARK: I don't know.  I tried --
Q. Didn't make any?
HEE YOUNG PARK: Of course, of course.
Q. Secret?
HEE YOUNG PARK: Yeah, of course, something.  Make some hole in one, make some cars this year.
Q. You wanted to win a car, that was your goal?
HEE YOUNG PARK: I really want to win.
Q. Get back in the winner's circle?
HEE YOUNG PARK: Yes, of course.  Then last year haven't played well in the majors, but I really want to work on the bigger tournaments and then score well and challenge myself.
Q. Play better in the majors?
HEE YOUNG PARK: Yeah, that's my goal.
Q. Well, I think you've been playing pretty good so far.  Good luck tomorrow.
HEE YOUNG PARK: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT