VOLUNTEERS OF AMERICA NORTH TEXAS SHOOTOUT PRESENTED BY JTBC
May 3, 2015
Hee Young Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Very impressive round today.   What was working for you on the course?  
HEE YOUNG PARK:   Last two weeks I've been working on a lot of putting distance.   I didn't change any skill or any stroke.   Just keep practice with the distance and make sure past the hole, because previous round or before, I always above the hole, like short.   So not even chance to, you know, expect to make.   So try to make a visual line past the hole all the time.   I think that helped me the last two weeks.   I think that was because change my key.  
   
 Q.   So you're kind of moving up the leaderboard this week from Thursday to Sunday.   Was there a change in strategy or game plan?  
HEE YOUNG PARK:   Tried to keep it simple, and my routine made a little bit of even shorter to‑‑ shorter hit possible.   I think that worked, even under the pressure.   
   
 Q.   Now, the course was pretty wet in the beginning and started to dry out.   How was the game, your game affected today?  
HEE YOUNG PARK:   Getting firmer today and a lot of par‑5s, more chance to reachable, second shot and more can hit play aggressive today, and more fun today.  
   
 Q.   Fun.   Play a little more aggressive.   That's awesome.   Now, you and Stacy both just almost had an eagle, chip‑in.   Can you take me through hole 18?  
HEE YOUNG PARK:   Okay.   We had a tee shot, but like ahead group a little bit slow.   I don't know what happened.   But we had a short chat.   And hit a pretty good driver, and then second shot we been waiting, like chat, chat, like other things.   Not golf things.   Just chat, chat.   And just make sure try to hit‑‑ make an eagle or birdie that hole.   Let's do it.   And we got motivated and hit the second shot, and then I was a bit more tougher, because right in front of the green was bunker.   But I kind of had to make sure past to the bunker.   So it doesn't matter over the green.   Just make sure hits the green first.   And then I made a perfect shot, almost eagle.   And then I think Stacy wants to make eagle, too, so she had like a little aggressive chip.   And we had like fun.  
   
 Q.   How is it playing with Stacy out there?  
HEE YOUNG PARK:   Fun.   We had a lot of play, even last year.   She won the British Open two years ago, and I was second.   We had to compete.   When we play together, we always play good, both, each other.  
   
 Q.   Kind of feed off each other, motivation?  
HEE YOUNG PARK:   Yeah, yeah.  
   
 Q.   That's awesome.   So great finish here today obviously.   How is this going to help your confidence going into the next weeks?  
HEE YOUNG PARK:   I think it's going to be a little help, because last couple months I kind of had a lot of pressure with the missed cut or made a cut or lot of think about score.   But now I just try to repeat it, hold my routine, like today or this week.   I think it's going to help a lot.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT