KINGSMILL CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JTBC
May 17, 2014
Hee Young Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Tell me about your round today.   How bad did the bogey on 18 hurt?  
HEE YOUNG PARK:   Yeah, I putted perfect and just missed the hole, so I didn't disappointed.  
First few hole putted pretty well, and then beginning hole like a little bit struggle.  
But before finish holes I pretty much got the feel back, so I'm happy.   One more round left, so I'm not at all disappointed.  
   
 Q.   What's the strategy going into tomorrow?   
HEE YOUNG PARK:   It's pretty much the same, and then more try to hit the fairway and green.   
Today a little bit miss driver off the fairway, so it's bit tough to made it close or made birdie chance.  
So tomorrow a little more focus on the accuracy rather than distance.  
   
 Q.   How tough is Lizette going to be to catch if she plays like that?   
HEE YOUNG PARK:   We are actually separate.   I'm not thinking about any other players.   She play really good, so that's really good.  
I think tomorrow will be play with her again, so good for me, because I'm really like to compete with good feeling players.   
   
 Q.   Okay.   And what are your thoughts going into this?   Obviously you've been in the lead before and chased before.   What's your strategy?   Are you more aggressive in this scenario than if you were in the lead?  
HEE YOUNG PARK:   Yeah, when I was Korean Tour I was most behind and then like catch leader was six strokes, so three strokes, nothing.   So this is totally not at all number.   Just myself and my challenging tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   How is the wrist?  
HEE YOUNG PARK:   It's today a bit hurting because long day.   So it's getting tighter.   Stacy and Salas hit it pretty long, so I automatically my body felt like try to hit it hard.   That's why more pressure left hand, but should be okay.  
   
 Q.   What do you do for it tonight?   Ice it?  
HEE YOUNG PARK:   Yeah, a little bit ice, and then I want to do some like cleaning my mind like few putts and clear everything and go rest.  
   
 Q.   How did you spend the afternoon waiting for your tee time?   Sleep in or what did you do?  
HEE YOUNG PARK:   Yeah, sleep in little more.   Like relaxing stretching more than usual.   Like full 40 minutes stretching before I come out golf course.   
Eat lunch, good food.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT