KINGSMILL CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JTBC
May 16, 2014
Hee Young Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  HEE YOUNG PARK:   The course was pretty wet, but it turned pretty nice shape.   And then yesterday actually greens are really firm, so today a lot of rain, which is water holding on the greens.
So I have a lot to do to play.

Q.   How are you feeling going into this weekend?
HEE YOUNG PARK:   I feel really good.   Last week I rested like whole week, so I can I think more focus on the course and I'm ready.

Q.   How is your wrist today?   Was it as comfortable as yesterday?
HEE YOUNG PARK:   Yesterday more hard ground, so a bit tough to hit solid, hit the ball.
But today more soft fairway, everything, so it helped a lot.   So more comfortable today.

Q.   So a lot of ice last night.
HEE YOUNG PARK:   A lot of ice, good food, good sleep.

Q.   Do you expect scores at the end of the day to be pretty good?
HEE YOUNG PARK:   Yeah, I think I so, because greens‑‑ this golf course, hardest thing is greens pretty firm.
But today after rain, now like pretty holding well, so a lot of player can play more aggressive and then more consistent hit it, the fairways.

Q.   A lot of players haven't even started their second round because of the delay; you're done.   Do you think it's an advantage to not have to finish tomorrow and start again?   You just to have play 18 tomorrow.
HEE YOUNG PARK:   If I afternoon tee'd off, maybe bit pressure ready for tomorrow, like maybe 27 hole or I'm not sure.
But this morning, like even when I was tee'd off, weather was still pretty bad.   Like a little bit shower, rain, a little bit windy, cold.   But now, like perfect shape.
So good thing a little bit, bad thing a little bit.

Q.   If you play with Inbee or Stacy, do you enjoy that, or does that make you a little nervous?
HEE YOUNG PARK:   No, I really enjoy it.   Actually not a match play, but feels like match play.   When competitor play well with my group, I kind of like motivated something, so I more enjoy it.

Q.   You know you can win out here; do you go into the weekend fairly confident?
HEE YOUNG PARK:   Yeah, I mean, I don't have nothing to lose, you know.   Just keep enjoy it and enjoy my challenging this weekend, and nothing afraid about it, you know.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT