KINGSMILL CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JTBC
May 15, 2014
Hee Young Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   We were kind of racing against some weather out there.   How did that factor into your last nine?   
HEE YOUNG PARK:   Yeah, first, when I was practice on Monday to Wednesday it was very calm, nice weather.   Like bit hotter, but it was really nice weather.   
But I expected at Kingsmill.   This golf course always windier and like tougher, so I expected.   I practiced in my off week, so today was that time.     
And I rested a lot because I been hurting my wrist.   So I played Texas Shootout and then didn't grab a club eight days.   I think that helps a lot more focused whole 18 holes.   
   
 Q.   Did you feel any pain in your wrist today?     
HEE YOUNG PARK:   No.   I been really good treatment, which is icing and definitely some like cream on and always do a lot of good treatment, like acupuncture.   
So a little bit of painful.   Like can feel it.   Number like maybe two.   It was like eight just to grab the club.   Morning time was more worse.     
So I worry about it, but I took an MRI x‑ray and it wasn't any problem.   Only inflammation, so doctor say just to rest and icing is my best friend, so...   
   
 Q.   How long have you been battling this?     
HEE YOUNG PARK:   It's been two months.   Yeah, over two months.   
Always on and off my wrist or elbow a little bit hurting and then it's disappear.   This time a bit more worse so I was a bit worry about it, but doctor said like should be okay.     
   
 Q.   Have you had it prior to this year?   The wrist, did it hurt last year?   
HEE YOUNG PARK:   Maybe two, three years ago, but it was end of season.   This first time ever like worst my body condition.   
I'm very excited playing this week because I feel a lot better than any other few several tournaments before.   
So I'm happy.   
   
 Q.   You must have hit it very well today.   Very pleased with way you're playing?   
HEE YOUNG PARK:   Everything is pretty good.   I made a lot of more putts.   I practiced a lot of long distance putt and I made quite a bit few long putts.   
And also like more focused.   I been focused pretty well today, which is more think about distance and not like technique.   So that help.   
   
 Q.   So plan tonight is just ice and more rest?   
HEE YOUNG PARK:   Yes.   Just a little bit of checking short game, maybe few balls, and then I have to play morning tomorrow...   
   
 Q.   Maybe.   Weather.     
HEE YOUNG PARK:   Yes, maybe.   But I have to ready tomorrow, so more icing, rest, good food, good sleep.   
   
 Q.   You feel good about play heading into tomorrow then?   
HEE YOUNG PARK:   Yeah, I'm very happy.   Especially like raining day like worst day I'm more into it.   So I'm ready.     
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT