NL DIVISION SERIES: METS v GIANTS
October 8, 2000
Turk Wendell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  You've been living with Rick White a little bit.  How would you describe Rick White? 

TURK WENDELL:   Rick is a great guy.  We share a lot of common interests.  Truthfully, when he first got over here, I didn't know who he was.  I don't really follow the American League all that close, other than the Red Sox.  I couldn't understand why a team like Tampa Bay would get rid of a guy who throws 95 miles an hour and brings to the game what he brings to the game every day.  I was happy after I saw him pitch a couple of times that he was on our team.


Q.  Can you talk about what it has been like to be a part of these games the past few years, these memorable post-season contests that go on forever that wind up being classics?  What is that like as a player? 

TURK WENDELL:   It's definitely a special feeling.  When you're part of something special like this, you win games in the fashion that we've won the games, you appreciate what you've done and how much work you've taken to get here.  I always kind of equate it to when you're a kid and you get things given to you, you don't appreciate it as much.  But when you win and you really earn it, you appreciate it that much more.  And there's been times where I've been sitting out on the field in pressure situations, and I think pressure is only what you put on yourself.  I just step off and I look around and people are going crazy and I just kind of smile and think to myself, "You know what, this is what it is all about.  This is what I dreamt of as a kid."  And to be a part of this and not watch it on TV makes it that much more special, because it's not a dream for me anymore.  It's reality. 


Q.  There was a point where you stepped off the mound and arched your back, was that one of those times?

TURK WENDELL:   That was one of those moments, yes, it was.


Q.  Who was more wound up last night, you or John? 

TURK WENDELL:   I think Johnny was more wound up last night.  Might have had too many cups of coffee down in the bullpen. 


Q.  Given the dream and what everybody wants, if you had the choice of going into a fifth game, or fourth game not knowing, or just saying you could win three in a row by six runs each, what would it be?

TURK WENDELL:   Well, it's definitely nice to have a little breathing room.  But it's also  -- it makes it special to win it the way we've won.  Johnny and I have talked in the bullpen, especially the other night in San Francisco, and it was 2-1, I think and it was before J.T. Snow hit the home run and after he hit the home run I called over to Johnny and said, "You know, some things never comes easy for us."  It definitely goes right to the baseball theory of it is a marathon, it is not a sprint, because our season is such a long, drawn-out process.  These playoff games are just that same way. 


Q.  You mentioned the Red Sox a few minutes ago.  Any thoughts about the team being put up for sale, good or bad? 

TURK WENDELL:   Truthfully, I don't read the newspaper.  So I didn't hear about that until right now.  My thoughts are I hope some individual buys it, instead of like a corporation or something.  Because I believe when one or two people own a team, they take more pride in that team to win, and when corporations own the team, to them, it is more of a business standpoint, and they don't put forth the effort, I think, that is needed. 


Q.  Obviously last night's game really came down to the bullpens, as most of these games do.  How do you personally approach the idea that there are hundreds of pitches thrown in these games and every pitch could be the last pitch? 

TURK WENDELL:   When I'm out there, I try to stay focused and aggressive mentally, physically, and that's pretty much how I approach each pitch.  I say to myself, even if it is the last pitch that I'll ever throw in my life, I want this to be the best pitch I throw.  And you can't have any second guesses or doubts in your head about any sort of pitch.  There's been situations where I've been in the windup and just about ready to throw the ball and I'll stop.  Why?  Because I have a bad feeling.  Somehow a bad feeling pops into my head and I'm a firm believer that you should never throw a pitch if you have a bad feeling.  And there's been times where it's been too late and I've had that bad feeling and given up a home run.  So then you wish you could take that pitch back.  But it's kind of  -- it's just the way baseball is, especially starting pitchers.  They can go out there and throw 120 pitches, great pitches and be perfect and then that 121st pitch is the home run that costs them the ballgame.  It is sad that it boils down to that, but that's the way baseball is, a game of, so to speak, inches. 


Q.  Has any team ever complained about your necklace and can you tell us more about it? 

TURK WENDELL:   I haven't had any team complaints.  It's not like a gold chain where it's going to shine and maybe distract a hitter.  It's not shark's teeth, as a lot of people make comments about it.  It's just hunting trophies, mountain lion claws, elk's teeth, turkey spurs, pigs' teeth.  Trophies, to me, that when I set foot on the baseball field every day, I have the privilege of putting on my uniform.  That's a reflection of all of the hard work that it has taken me to get to the big league level.  When people ask me about the necklace and I look at it in the mirror or something getting dressed, it's just a reflection of all of the hard work that it has taken me to get all of these things.  A lifetime of accomplishments.


Q.  Do the Met players talk about the possibility of a Subway Series, do you get any kick out of it?

TURK WENDELL:   I, for one, am not a big Yankee fan.  As I said, I am a Red Sox fan.  All I care about now is beating the Giants.  I'm not looking forward to playing anyone in the World Series at this point in time.  I'm looking forward to beating the Giants today.  As far as yesterday's game, it's over, and tomorrow, if that happens to be, it is something we'll think about on the plane if we have to go to San Francisco.  Just worry what's at hand right in front of us today. 


Q.  What is your reaction when you knew the Braves were out, knowing that if you win, you don't have to play them? 

TURK WENDELL:   I think a lot of the guys and myself, I was a little relieved, just because I think that is a team that mentally puts a lot of pressure on other teams.  It puts pressure on guys to think that they have to be perfect, and once if they make an error, guys in the back of their mind are going, oh, gosh, we have opened the flood gates.  And that is a team that capitalizes on errors and you can't give teams like that four or five outs in an innings.  Mentally, it did a lot for a team because mentally we have whatever it is against the Braves and we don't have to contend with it, and I think that is a definite plus for our ballclub. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT