MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 13, 2009
Marc Gicquel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. GICQUEL/E. Schwank
  3-6, 6-1, 7-6 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. He beat you easily last year in a challenger. What was different this time?  
 MARC GICQUEL: Last year the court was slow and he played better than I did. Today we both didn't play our best tennis. It was very tight. I could have lost. I had three or four breakpoints at 3-2, and I had many opportunities after that, but it was not easy.   
 I believe I was able to play my service games better, and I was able to stick to the score. In the tiebreaker, he handed it to me.   
 I served better in the third set. Before that, I didn't have any rhythm with my serve.   
  
  Q. How do you keep your motivation? You are 32 years old.   
 MARC GICQUEL: Playing in these tournaments is what we all want. We're all happy to be here. If I don't try my best in these tournaments, then...   
  
  Q. I'll rephrase my question. Where do you find the physical strength to keep fighting that way?  
 MARC GICQUEL: I do fight. I don't want to lose. Today was a great fight. But I believe I didn't play well.   
  
  Q. Some players say it's better to win when they don't play well.   
 MARC GICQUEL: Well, I'm very happy that I won, but my tennis could have been better. From now on I can only do better. But I was tense that match.   
  
  Q. You have no coach? Someone was there.   
 MARC GICQUEL: He's a friend from my childhood. He knows a little bit about tennis. But he's not my coach. I try to analyze my game by comparing what I was doing before. I know physically I'm not at my best level. I'm not fast enough.   
 My physical fitness is the basis of my game. If I'm not fit, my forehand is not good enough and I'm not able to finish the points. I need to work on my speed, my endurance.   
  
  Q. Can we say your friend is your coach?  
 MARC GICQUEL: You can write that down if you want. His name is Sebastien Lelièvre. He's from Brittany. He's a friend from my childhood. He was once ranked 15 in the third series of players nationally. It is just that it's not easy to travel alone. Sometimes my wife is with me. But it's nice having him.   
  
  Q. How did you start this season?  
 MARC GICQUEL: I had a pretty good start. I played well in Casablanca and I made the first round here. I'm going to play in Barcelona, and I'll try to improve my game to be fit for the French Open.   
  
  Q. Are you going to Rome?  
 MARC GICQUEL: I'm not sure. I am registered for playing the quallies, but I'm not sure I'm going to play them. I'll make a decision just before the tournament.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT