MASTERS SERIES MONTE-CARLO PRESENTED BY ROLEX
April 22, 2008
Marc Gicquel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  J. NIEMINEN/M. Gicquel
6-0, 6-4



 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Does the pain in your back explain the first set? 
 MARC GICQUEL: No. The conditions were very slow today and he is a very difficult player to outrun. I also was not patient enough. 
 Also, playing at 10 in the morning or 3 in the afternoon is completely different. The conditions change. 
 During the second set, I was more patient and I was able to give him more problems. But physically it was tough for me. Since I couldn't outrun him, the rallies were long and I had to run a lot. I didn't have enough energy. 
 At 4-3 he was able to come back by playing a bit tougher. 

 Q. At 4-3 you asked for the trainer. 
 MARC GICQUEL: I felt something had moved in my back. But, in fact, nothing serious happened. 

 Q. Until 5-Love you only won two points. 
 MARC GICQUEL: Well, he was giving nothing away and I was rushing too much. For me it was difficult physically. When you lose 6-Love, you have to change something in your game, which I did. I played better after that. But it was difficult for me to maintain the rhythm until the end. 
 He was not playing fast; he was just making me run a lot. He does play well. Also the conditions were not very favorable for me. Immediately after warmup, the balls were already different, they were getting bigger. The clay was slow this morning. It was damp. 
 But he's a very good player and I'm not very fresh. 

 Q. Is it becoming a nightmare, losing twice 6-Love?
 MARC GICQUEL: I didn't feel good today. I think I should change my tactics. In this match when I was losing 6-Love, 1-Love, I thought maybe I would lose Love-Love. But I kept fighting. I thought maybe he would start missing. But at 4-3 he was able to come back into the match. 

 Q. You did lose Love-Love in Hamburg. 
 MARC GICQUEL: In fact, things turned out bad for me because there were many breakpoints, many points for breaking back. I just lost those particular points. It could have been 4-Love for me.

 Q. And how is your back now? 
 MARC GICQUEL: It's all right. It just felt a bit stiff. 

 Q. What is your schedule now? 
 MARC GICQUEL: Munich. I'm not playing Rome because I'm not in the main draw. I'll play in Bordeaux and in Casablanca. Bordeaux is a 100,000 tournament. Casablanca is the week before the French Open. 

 Q. You're still without a coach?
 MARC GICQUEL: For the time being, yes. I'm not looking for one. It went well in Estoril and here, although here I lost in the first round. 

 Q. What didn't work out with Rodolphe?
 MARC GICQUEL: The daily life was just too difficult, and also we didn't agree on tactics. I was no longer listening to him. It was tough for him seeing that I was not doing what he was saying. 

 Q. So who are you hitting with before a match?
 MARC GICQUEL: I don't hit. I just warm up physically. I know myself well. Against Davydenko and Alcione, it went well. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT