MASTERS SERIES MONTE-CARLO
April 17, 2007
Marc Gicquel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  When did you find out that you were going play Garcia-Lopez, and did that change your mindset how you were going to play Murray?   
 MARC GICQUEL:  Yes.  I came here at 12:00.  I knew he had been injured the day before, and also I saw him wearing jeans when he came here, so I figured out he was not going to play.   
 Also I knew that I was going to play on another court.  What it changed for me was that instead of being an outsider against Murray I suddenly became a favorite against Garcia-Lopez, and it was not easy for me.   
  
  
  
  
  Q.  What did you have in mind before stepping onto the court?   
 MARC GICQUEL:  It was a challenge for both of us.  Second round, first time for me.  We could both go to the third round.  Interesting for both of us.   
 It was better, of course, to play Garcia-Lopez than Murray, but we were both tense.  He was the better one.  I fought very hard, but I didn't play my best tennis.  I did what I could.  He was better than I was today.   
  
  Q.  What did you know about him?   
 MARC GICQUEL:  I played him once in Metz, otherwise I had never seen him play.  And in Metz he was not into the match.   
 I knew he had a good forehand.  It was up to me to make the game and not step back, but he took the initiative and I stepped back too much.   
 In the second set I was able to make the difference, but in the third set I was not able to push him back.   
 I was broken immediately, then it was like the day before:  5-3, and he really got out of his way to get that game.  I did win yesterday, which gave me confidence; however, I still didn't play my best tennis.   
  
  Q.  What do you need now?   
 MARC GICQUEL:  Two or three wins in a row.   
  
  Q.  What are you going to do now?   
 MARC GICQUEL:  I'm going to Paris where I'm going to practice, then on Saturday I'll be leaving for Casablanca.  After that, Rome.  I am in the main draw.  And in Hamburg I am 4th or 5th on the list.  I'm hoping to get in.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT