THE IRISH OPEN
June 27, 2013
Oscar Floren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  OSCAR FLOREN:   Yeah, I hit a great drive to about 20 feet, made the putt.   I came out and just and hit everything really, really pure.   I haven't hit much balls with the days leading up, my foot has been bothering me.   I have a bad tendon in the foot so I have not been able to hit many balls, got treatment and today was perfect.  
   
 Q.   Did it feel good all the way around‑‑  
OSCAR FLOREN:   Yeah, it did.   I was a little bit off on 8, and the wedge shot on 9, but part from that, I've been hitting the ball great for the last couple of weeks.   Just been putting awful to be honest, like Germany, as well, so hitting the ball great.   
My form has actually been really good since, I played good in Austria the first two rounds, St. Omer, ball‑striking has been good.   I finished 9‑under last week, I had 122 putts or something like that, which is 15 too many.   Ball‑striking‑wise has been very, very good.   
   
 Q.   Great round of 66.   
OSCAR FLOREN:   Yeah, it was very solid, not much happened.   It was a very solid day.   
   
 Q.   Solid day, nothing happened; you started with an eagle on 13, tell us about that?  
OSCAR FLOREN:   I hit a drive to 20‑foot maybe and made the putt.   So great drive, came out, missed two fairways I think, or three fairways.   I hit the drive well all day.  
   
 Q.   A lot of birdies and no bogeys, fantastic to get through a round without a bogey.   
OSCAR FLOREN:   It was good, but like I said it was solid.   The longest par putt I had was 5‑foot maybe.   To be honest I didn't put that well, but made the important ones.  
   
 Q.   In terms of the condition of the course, are you happy?  
OSCAR FLOREN:   Yeah, it's a great course, very good.   It's tough around the greens.   You've got to miss in the right spot, so when I missed the greens, it was in the right spots.   Otherwise it's really, really hard.  
   
 Q.   Normally the scoring is better in the morning than the afternoon‑‑  
OSCAR FLOREN:   Maybe, but I think the guys in the morning had some rain, so I think that affects a lot as well.  
   
 Q.   Your form has been pretty good of late but this is a step up, isn't it?  
OSCAR FLOREN:   My ball‑striking has been very good, I played well in Germany and Austria for a couple of rounds.   If I can take away the mistakes and get my putter going, it could be very, very good.  
   
 Q.   Your thoughts on 6‑under par?   
OSCAR FLOREN:   Solid, very solid.   I played great today.   It was nice to get off to a good start again.   I've had good starts the last couple of weeks but very good.   
It was really solid, to be fair, it was obviously a great round of golf but it was very, very solid and that's the way I like to play, hit a lot of fairways, a lot of greens, and eventually some putts are going to drop.  
   
 Q.   A fighting kind of rounds, as well, because you had some elements to deal with?  
OSCAR FLOREN:   Yeah, but I had quite a good draw.   We didn't play much in the rain.   I saw the guys in the morning had some rain so it was quite a good draw I think.   
   
 Q.   Has it been coming?   There have been signs, haven't there, in recent weeks?   
OSCAR FLOREN:   Yeah, there has been, and it's more mentally I've changed a bit.   And also like done the work, put in the work, like do the small things every day that matters, so I think that's what I've got to do.   
   
 Q.   You felt that was necessary; you had to change something in the approach?  
OSCAR FLOREN:   Yeah, I did.   I did after March, April, and it's been paying off recently, so that's good.   I like it.   
   
 Q.   Because when you're in form, you tend to keep it going just that bit, but we haven't seen new form for a while?  
OSCAR FLOREN:   No, I haven't.   But I've been in form the last few weeks.   I finished all right in Germany but I played well in Austria and St. Omer the first two rounds, as well.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT