BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
April 27, 2012
Oscar Floren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Can you reflect on the finish?   
OSCAR FLOREN:   The finish was great.   Better than finishing with a double‑bogey today.   The finish was great.   I finally hit some‑‑ I tell you, I hit a terrible, terrible tee shot on 14 but got a break with it and hit a good shot in and knocked in the birdie.   
From there on, I hit only good shots, and that's been‑‑ my shots, I've been struggling with my shots the first two days, and I need to go work on that on the range.   But my putting and short game's been really, really good.   And I haven't been able to hit‑‑ when I hit the greens, they have been fairly close.   
Yesterday, I only hit eight greens.   But when I hit them fairly close, I'm knocking in some putts.   So can't score well without putting well, so that's the key for me this week.   
   
 Q.   And a birdie, birdie, eagle finish.   
OSCAR FLOREN:   5‑under on the last five, yeah.   On 18, I guess I got a bit lucky.   My ball hit the path, and it was the perfect 4‑iron, hit a really great shot to about eight feet and knocked it in.   So good way to finish.   
   
 Q.   That might well be the only one at 18, clearly the weather conditions were markedly different on the first day?  
OSCAR FLOREN:   Yeah, yeah, it was.   I don't know, but I'm more happy about my birdie on 17 because I got a bottle of whisky for that.   
It feels good being back there.   It's been about since October last year, and then I got injured after that.   So feels good to be back where I want to be.   
   
 Q.   What was the injury?  
OSCAR FLOREN:   I was injured, I have a bulging disk in my neck.   It's still there.   It's probably always going to be there.   I have to try to work around it.   So it made my right arm go numb, so I pulled out of Portugal last year.   
I played well at that time of the year, probably the best I ever played.   Finished fifth I think in Madrid the week before and then I had to pull out of Portugal.   Played those two in South Africa in November, but apart from, that didn't touch my clubs between the event in Portugal, and then the week before Abu Dhabi this year.   
So it was a long break that I didn't want to have.   You know, you have to listen to the body when I get injured, so that's all I could do.  
   
 Q.   Is that something that's troubled you in the past?  
OSCAR FLOREN:   No, first time I knew about it in Portugal.   It appeared there.   I did an MRI in Portugal and found out I had a bad disk in the neck and pulled out on the Friday.   It was not feeling good and I was not feeling well.   
The neck is fine now.   I've been more cautious about what I'm doing and things like‑‑ everything, like how I sit, how I stand, how I walk and the way I sleep, special pillow, always travel with a pillow, because you change pillows so much at hotels.   Now I feel good.   
   
 Q.   Does it change the game, do you have to approach shots in a different manner?   
OSCAR FLOREN:   No, we actually changed my head a bit, the setup, because I'll always be tilting with my head.   To have it more straight, it makes it not so much pressure on the neck.   It changed the way I work out a bit, which I didn't like, because I liked the workout we were doing.   But if it's not good for me, I can't do it.   
But the game itself, I guess try to work more on the short game, and it's working, you can always work on putting, even though I was a bit sore, I can work on my putting and chipping.   
   
 Q.   A few times you've contended, so you've learned from the experiences.   
OSCAR FLOREN:   Yeah, I was up there a few times last year.   I don't know how many I had, three, four times.   Yeah, try to build on that.   I know what I'm doing well, and try to improve a bit today on the things that's not been so good over the first two days.   And I feel confident for the weekend.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT