DIAMOND RESORTS TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 19, 2019
Blair O'Neal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You are kind of almost caught in between here, it seems like.  You're playing with the celebrities, and you've got the ladies on the other side.  How do you figure it out?
BLAIR O'NEAL: You know, it's so much fun playing with these guys.  These guys smash the ball, and then the ladies out here are so good.  It's fun to watch their games and be right in there inside the ropes with them.
Q. You did well last year.  You finished seventh, if memory serves.
BLAIR O'NEAL: Yeah, I played well the last couple years, so that's been good.  Hoping to move up the leaderboard this year.
Q. As far as who you're playing with so far, what funny things have you seen on the golf course?  Anything as far as a little bit off?  Well, that you can talk about anyway.
BLAIR O'NEAL: Yeah, that I could talk about.  To be honest, I've just seen a lot of great golf.  Stacy shot 66 today.  Sterling, he played well today.  Yesterday I played with Mardy Fish, Brooke Henderson.  I mean, that is some -- I mean, the best of the best.  Brooke's leading the tournament, or was yesterday.  So it was just a lot of great golf that I saw.  They make it look easy.
Q. Yeah, they have so far.  What is your hope for this?  You're probably not going to win it, but where do you think you're going to be in the whole thing by the time it's all said and done?
BLAIR O'NEAL: My whole thing is to do my best out there and then count them up at the end and see where it is.  I don't even know how many points I have right now.  I just looked at my scorecard, and I have five birdies today, but I'm not really out there keeping track.  I'm just trying to play my game and play well enough.  If I do that, I'll be right in the hunt.  Give these guys a little something to work for.
Q. So the format seems to be a smashing success with the Tournament of Champions with the LPGA and now with the celebrities out here as well.  So looking at the crowds out here, what have you noticed?
BLAIR O'NEAL: Yeah, I love the format because, especially in my game, I'm kind of the turtle out here.  These guys, like I said, are hitting it over 300 yards, killing the ball.  A lot of times they're hitting a 4 iron into the green when I'm hitting a wedge.  So there's a difference there.
Me, I typically will make a lot of pars, and I'm steady.  So it's nice with the point change where that now you get a point for bogey and you at least get two points for par.  So those two add up.  For me, that's the great thing because I can kind of creep on up there and I can inch a little closer to the top with that setup.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT