ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 16, 2013
Nick Faust
Mark Turgeon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









COACH TURGEON:   Needless to say, I'm really proud of my group.   We were dead at the start of the game, we had no energy whatsoever.   Emotional win last night beatin' the No. 2 team in the country in Duke, and we all tried to sleep last night but none of us slept very much.   We missed a ton of layups, balls bounced out of our hands and led to layups for them and we never quit.   We had a shot at the buzzer to tie it, against a team that's won 7 out of 8, or 8 out of 9, and really playing well. 
I can't be more proud‑‑ I'm really proud of this guy next to me.   His growth in the last three weeks, I've been on Nick so hard about growing up and becoming a basketball player.   He's just had a great two weeks, and I couldn't be more proud.   Came up a little bit short, but sometimes you don't win on the scoreboard but you win, and we won today as a program.   Our program got better. 

Q.   Mark, on the last play, was it your hope to get that shot in that situation immediately trying to get‑‑ trying to avoid a situation where they would foul and Logan was the first option? 
COACH TURGEON:   Absolutely, yeah, Logan is a pretty good shooter and they all have a lot of confidence in him, he was 48% from the three a couple of weeks ago, hasn't shot as well of late. Alex had a great screen, it's hard to get an open three late in the game and we actually got one, and, you know, execution was tremendous. The amazing thing is that we put ourselves in that position to be there, to have a chance to do that.   I think we all thought Logan was going to make it.   We were talking about after he made it, make sure we got our men going back on defense, cut the ball and don't let 'em score so we can get it into overtime, that's how confident we were, we were talking about what we were going to do after he made it, didn't make it but the execution was good.   That's what you ask for as a coach. 

Q.   Mark, do you feel like your team has hit a new level here in Greensboro and if you do believe that does it make it frustrating if you don't make the NCAA Tournament to show what you can do? 
COACH TURGEON:   Unfortunately, in today's world you get judged on whether you make that tournament or not, but I'm judging us on where our program was when I took the job and where it is today.   Where we were two months ago, where we were a month ago and where we are today.   That's really how I'm going to judge it. 
A month ago, I'm not sure I wanted this season to keep going, these guys were tough to coach.   Now I'm having a blast coaching them.   I'm having so much fun because they're listening.   Jeff, you're with us, what this group has done in the last three weeks, pretty amazing, pretty amazing! 

Q.   Nick, you were the in‑bounds passer on the last shot.   It looked like Dez came around first and Seth Allen followed him.   Can you go through that and explain what they did to prevent you from getting the ball to them and made you throw it to the other player? 
NICK FAUST:   Well that was just the way Coach drew it up.   There were just distractions to get Logan a wide open shot.   We thought that Logan's a good shooter, so him taking the shot was the best thing for the team. 
THE MODERATOR:   Any other questions?   Thank you.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT