NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: CAPITALS v RED WINGS
June 10, 1998
Chris Simon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Even though you were down in the series the confidence of this team hasn't really shaken at all is the feeling from the guys last night.
 
CHRIS SIMON:  Not at all.  It is one game and we expect it to be a 7-game series.  I know you guys don't think that, but we believe in this and we have confidence in ourselves.  I think last night we had a little lapse there for about three minutes, but that is what happens when you are playing a great team.  They capitalize on those opportunities and -- but I think we played well in the second and third period.  I think if we play that well in the next game it gives us a very good chance to win. 
 

Q.  Second and third period the good things that you did in that period, do you use that as a springboard in Game 2 to get a split?
 
CHRIS SIMON:  Definitely.  That was our goal coming in is to try to get a split.  We would like to win the first one, but we are going to try to win the second one and the thing is there are two teams out there trying to win and you give it your all every night and you hope for the best. 
 

Q.  One of things you guys did very well was shut down their big time goal scorer, Fedorov, he didn't get a sniff at the net last night.  Got to be some pride in that?
 
CHRIS SIMON: I think they have got a very good team, like four lines, they are not a team that only has one line that scores or two lines.  They showed that last night and that is the way we got to be also.  We got to get goals from our third and fourth line.  It can't be expected from the top two lines to score every night especially this time of the year. 
 

Q.  You mentioned that little three-minute lapse in that first period that led to those it goals, what exactly happened there?
 
CHRIS SIMON: I think we just let up and we made a couple of mistakes, but you know, we are not singling out any individuals out there, like things happen up the ice.  It was just, like I said, a 3-minute thing.  We can't afford to give this team a 2-nothing lead. 
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT