MOUNTAIN WEST CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 9, 2006
Jeff Hart
Ritchie McKay
Mark Walters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 COACH RITCHIE McKAY:  I thought our guys fought hard and I thought we played well enough to win.  Unfortunately, we weren't the victor tonight. 

 Q.  Mark and Jeff both, how similar was this game when you lost these guys two years ago, and they didn't get their first lead until late in the game? 
 MARK WALTERS:  I don't even remember that game two years ago, to tell you the truth, so I couldn't help you there. 
 Q.  Jeff, do you remember? 
 JEFF HART:  It was similar.  I knew we had a lead and they came back little by little, kind of similar to what happened tonight, I guess. 
 Q.  Both guys, Mark and Jeff, how frustrating is it to go back and look at the stats from the free-throw line? 
 JEFF HART:  I mean, that's something that's I think hurt us in a few games late this year.  It would have been nice to knock a few down the stretch. 
 Give them credit.  They were hitting their free-throws.  So it would have been nice to have those points. 
 Q.  Mark, could you talk about the disappointment?  It looked like you were off and running, you had a 13-point lead and it slipped away? 
 MARK WALTERS:  It's hard.  A few defensive possessions, we just weren't in the right spots.  They got to easy buckets.  Offensive end we were getting some good luck.  Most of the time we weren't knocking them down. 
 UNLV did a good job defensively.  On me, they were making it hard for me to get the ball let alone get some shots up.  But I tip my hat to them.  It's hard when Chiotti is not in there.  He was in foul trouble most of the game.  So when he's not there, the inside, all that attention that he usually draws, we're missing that.  You know, you can't go back and play that game, so. 
 Q.  Jeff, talk about the last play.  It seemed like it was a design play.  I don't know if it was or not.  You had a good look and you certainly had a hot hand. 
 JEFF HART:  Yeah, I think they were up one.  We drew it there , a bunch of options coming out of it:  getting to the basket, shooting a the 3, looking for Mark.  Had a few options.  I ended up with it.  Had a pretty good look.  Missed it. 
 Q.  Do you guys kind of wish you held on longer? 
 JEFF HART:  Yeah, I mean, we could have waited a little longer.  I'm glad I took the shot.  And I wouldn't want it any other way. 
 Q.  Possession before that I think is what he's saying? 
 JEFF HART:  I don't remember the possession before that. 
 Q.  Mark, do you remember that? 
 MARK WALTERS:  I don't remember that play, man. 

 Q.  Coach, could you answer that one I just asked?  Do you wish they had hung on just a little longer? 
 COACH RITCHIE McKAY:  UNLV had a possession left on the clock anyway, so whether they got it with 36 seconds or whatever, our team always wants to be the aggressor.  We put a little spread offense to try and take advantage of our dribble penetration.  But even that wasn't to stall; it was to try and give guys a rest in the possession and try and attack towards the end of it.  And we've talked all week about being the aggressor, so I didn't mind that shot at all. 
 You can't play with the sense of passivity and win at this level. 
 Q.  That being said, do you think you guys got a little too passive in parts of the second half when the lead was double digits? 
 COACH RITCHIE McKAY:  No, we were completely taken out of our offense because of UNLV's pressure and the way they sped us up.  Even when we did break it, and we had good things behind it, we got in the bonus.  We had six fouls early and never got to the seventh or at least if a four-minute stretch.  But we were on the attack.  We didn't -- I don't remember any possessions going down to the end of the shot clock where we were too passive.  I mean, there could be but I haven't reviewed the tape. 
 Q.  Could you just talk about how Jeff Hart played today? 
 COACH RITCHIE McKAY:  Jeff's been great the last three games.  He's really done a great job of helping our offense. 


 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT