NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SHARKS v CANUCKS
May 19, 2011
Ryane Clowe
Joe Pavelski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Questions for Joe and Ryane.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 JOE PAVELSKI: Yeah, I think every series you have to kind of reprove yourself. I haven't showed up in the way I'd like. Can definitely be better in a lot of areas.   
 Just need to improve on that.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 JOE PAVELSKI: I think a big thing that we've just been going over is protect the puck a little bit more, be a little bit cleaner with it, skate better. There's a lot of better of stuff, if we start moving, start skating better, the other areas will take care of themselves.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 RYANE CLOWE: I think we should expect more of ourselves. When you play a power-play and you play 18 and 20 minutes a night, that's big minutes. You got to be productive when you're out there.   
 In the past, we've had pretty good playoffs, so you set your level, you set the bar high. First two games of the series, obviously we can be better as a team. I know I can be better as an individual.   
 You think this kind of series should suit my game a little bit, so I got to start playing in it that way. I got to be a little more strong in the offensive zone with the puck. Obviously, felt I had a better game than the first game last night, but still room there to improve. Not only for me and Pav, but definitely as a team.   
 JOE PAVELSKI: At the start of playoffs, you set your bar high. We've had success in the past. In that L.A. series, we hold high standards and got off to a good start. Each series, they get bigger. We have to step up and become better players as the series goes on.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 RYANE CLOWE: Our five-on-five play, I was happy heading into the series. Got to give them credit. They're in your face. They don't give you any free entries. They make you work to get the puck back.   
 The first game was obviously a bad game for us. Then last night, I thought we did as a line a great job of coming out clean, having an opportunity to forecheck. When you get the puck on your stick in the O zone, what you do with it, we had some chances. I think that momentum, like you talked about, having a couple of shifts in a row, kind of grind time I guess you could call it, that stuff is contagious. That trickles through the rest of the lineup.   
 We definitely need more of that. Sometimes you can't go to the drawing board and draw something up there. Those 50/50 pucks, you hear it all playoffs, you have to win those battles. That's not a blueprint, that's black and white. You got to win those.   
 That's upon ourselves as individuals, how much you pride you got in those areas. Right now they're winning those battles. Our line, we pride ourselves on that. We got to be a lot better.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 JOE PAVELSKI: I guess on a few of them. We're thinking we can't believe that's called a penalty at times. He's played physical, rough. That's the type of player he is. He's had a bad rap for it at times. I guess he runs the fine line. The refs have been on him for that.   
 You definitely have to take a look at your game, watch out in certain areas. When he walks that line on the right side, he's a great player for us. He definitely brings a little bit of his physicality for us.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 JOE PAVELSKI: Maybe. It's hard to say. Whether they're looking or not, we have to stay out of the box. It's hurt us. We're not drawing enough penalties the way it is. We're better off playing a five-on-five game. If we do, our power-play has been somewhat dangerous so far. We've been able to get on the board, get a little bit of momentum going.   
 When we're killing penalties, that kind of totes the ice back for them.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 RYANE CLOWE: Well, I hope you look in the mirror, hope he means you. I think every guy gets on that plane and evaluates their game, at least they should, win or lose, doesn't matter how the game goes.   
 I know I think about every shift after the game, go over it, what went wrong, what went well. You have to take the positives, try to build on those, as well.   
 You know, it's frustrating. I don't think it's a lack of people not caring. Still, at this time of year, it's funny how you can say that we need more guys, we got some passengers. You're in the Western Conference final, and you got a taste of it last year, you know how hard it is. You figure you push harder.   
 I think at times you want to win so bad, we get frustrated, kind of lose composure a little bit like last night.   
 I think most guys look at themselves on this team, we're not a selfish team by any means, we're not stupid either, we know who he's talking about. We just got to respond.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 RYANE CLOWE: I'm not sure about individual. We had a team meeting today. It was pretty good. It was pretty positive. Had a short chat with Todd after Game 1. I needed to be better, we needed to be better in the game. That's pretty well what we discussed.   
 So far as individuals go, most of the time that's behind closed doors. Usually keep that within themselves, and vice versa.   
 We had a good team meeting. Obviously, we had some video. Wasn't anyone called out individually. Not usually is. You know, you're foolish if you think if you don't know if you played well or not at this time of year.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT