NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND 2019
February 17, 2019
Giannis Antetokounmpo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Team LeBron - 178, Team Giannis - 164
Q. Clearly, this is a family matter for you.  How much is it important for you to share this moment with your brothers?
GIANNIS ANTETOKOUNMPO: It is important.  As you guys know.  Family over everything.  The most important thing for me is family.  I just want them to go through the experience, to see what I go through.  So it's important to have my family here.
Q. Giannis, have you ever received an alley-oop like the one that Steph through you off the bounce pass?
GIANNIS ANTETOKOUNMPO: No, no.  That was the first time.  I think that pass was going to Joel, but I was able to sneak in there and make it look like good pass for me.  It was a nice play.
Q. Giannis, congratulations for your performance.  Would you like to send a message you know to the Greek fans that stayed awake the whole night to cheer for you and to watch the game.  And if you would like to say something for them in Greek.
GIANNIS ANTETOKOUNMPO: [ Speaking Greek ].
Q. I just wanted to know what was most gratifying for you and your brothers that are there tonight?  I actually want them to speak for themself also.
KOSTAS ANTETOKOUNMPO: Say it again?
Q. What's the most that you can take out of this whole experience? You and your other two brothers.
KOSTAS ANTETOKOUNMPO: Like watching great players play, like all of them, all of the players from both teams and just seeing the mentality, you know, and the way they just -- their demeanor and everything.  The way they carry themselves.  I feel like that for a young man that want to become great, it's really important.
Q. How badly did you want to become the first international player to win the MVP tonight?  And are you disappointed you didn't?
GIANNIS ANTETOKOUNMPO: Actually, I didn't even know that there's never been an international player to win the MVP.  I was just trying to play hard, have fun.  Previously, my first and second All-Star, I think I was kind of nervous.  This one I was a little bit more relaxed.  I had my name on that MVP until the third quarter, and they got hot and took it away from me.
But at the end of the day, I had fun.  My family had fun.  It's just a great experience.
Q. Giannis, this was Team Giannis, and this is something like your breakout event right here.  Was it hard trying to be a face of a team?  You know, obviously, you were in the background as a reserve a couple other times, and now this is you.  How did you handle being in the spotlight?
GIANNIS ANTETOKOUNMPO: It's easy as long as you stay humble and down to earth.  It's easy.  I think just being a leader of the team, it wasn't as tough as I thought because my teammates, the guys in the locker room encouraged me to step up and take it serious and play hard and help the team to win.  So that was kind of easy tonight.
Q. Giannis, your older brother Thanasis has already two MVPs in the Greek league.  How difficult will it be for you to catch up?
GIANNIS ANTETOKOUNMPO: I'm really happy for Thanasis.  He's gotten better every year.  I try to take a lot of tips from him before the game, how to become MVP.  He's got two of them.  I did everything he said, but I didn't win the game.  That's why I didn't get it.
As I said, I'm going to keep getting better.  Hopefully, I can get as many MVPs as Thanasis.  Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT