TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 20, 2018
Kolin Hill
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Kansas - 16, Texas Tech - 48
THE MODERATOR: Questions for Kolin Hill.
Q. (Question about T.J.)
KOLIN HILL: Everybody is playing together, playing with the edge.  That's just something that's helping us along the way.
Q. (No microphone.)
KOLIN HILL: What did you say?
Q. (No microphone.).
KOLIN HILL: I mean, yeah.  Definitely nice.  Thank God for putting me in position to make those plays.
Q. What is the biggest measuring stick you guys use?  Is it yards allowed, points allowed, just wins, turnovers?
KOLIN HILL: I feel we look at yards.  One of the things we stress is stopping the run.  Stopping the run takes care of itself as far as the pass game and everything.  Just stopping the run is very important for us.
Q. Moving up the national rankings, getting out of that triple digits, is that something on your radar?
KOLIN HILL: I don't really look too much into things like that.  We just look at what we got to focus on, which is stopping the run.
Q. What is y'all's mentality (indiscernible)?
KOLIN HILL: You know, we knew we had to get out there and do what we had to do, stop them.  Our mentality is the same each and every drive we got out there:  stopping them.
Yeah, definitely helped out a bunch.  Especially our offense gave them momentum as well, stopping them on those plays, getting the field goals.
Q. Did you hear a particular voice at that time?  Who was rallying the troops?
KOLIN HILL: Everybody is communicating.  You guys like Dakota, Jordan, Broderick.  All those guys are communicating when we get in positions like that where we got to stop them when we have a short field.
Q. You got dinged up a couple times today.  Did you have the motivation to get back out there because the defense was playing so well?
KOLIN HILL: One of these things, I got a little stinger in the side.  I knew I was okay.  Definitely did want to go back out there, though.  That's always the plan.
Q. (Question about getting recognition on defense.)
KOLIN HILL: It's been a long time coming.  Especially when I first got here, we weren't known for defense at all.  That's definitely something that we stress.  Things have changed for us defensively, so...
Q. Did Williams get your attention today in his escape-ability?
KOLIN HILL: Yeah, that's one of the guys we definitely had our eyes on before the game started.  When he did create those plays, I give credit to him.  Definitely a good runningback.
Q. Iowa State and Texas coming up next.
KOLIN HILL: We will come back, watch the film tomorrow, prepare for Iowa State tomorrow.  We're just going to get ready for them starting tomorrow.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT