TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 4, 2018
Kolin Hill
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Kolin, I guess just what was the biggest thing you took away from watching the film over the weekend?  
KOLIN HILL: On Ole Miss?  I mean, it's definitely one of those things where it was kind of disappointing because we're this close.  It's just a lack of focus, not doing your job, not executing.  One of those things where it's upsetting.   
 Q.  From a defensive line perspective, how tough is that to know that y'all kind of wanted to stop the run and you weren't able to that game?  
KOLIN HILL: Yeah, I mean, that's one of the things that we went into the game trying to do is definitely stop the run, and it's disappointing that we weren't able to execute that.  It's just little things like being out of our gaps and stuff like that that made those big gashes, and that's what we can't do.   
 Q.  From your perspective what was it like to see a guy like John Bonney come in 20 days ago and lead you guys in tackles?  What does that say about him?  
KOLIN HILL: That dude came here to work, and he's definitely competing at a high level.  That's what I like about him, and he's making plays, as well.   
 Q.  Keeping in mind I'm not pointing this question directly at you, but you are the representative of the defense right now; how do you guys fix the, as Coach said, "bonehead mistakes" you guys were making with these penalties, either the targeting rules, the pass interference, whatever it is that's preventing you from getting to that next level?  
KOLIN HILL: I mean, just simply just like at practice doing your job.  That's one of the things that's important, and as far as just the hitting, targeting and all that stuff, that's just one of those things that's part of the game, but we've got to learn how to just keep our heads up and tackle better.   
 Q.  I don't know how much film you guys have watched, but what can you tell us about Lamar going into Saturday?  
KOLIN HILL: I mean, yeah, like you said, we haven't -- we watched film on them, and some of the things that they're good at is just the option -- they have certain plays that they're very successful at, but they have good skill players, good quarterback, so we're up for the challenge.   
 Q.  Is it hard going into the film room watching film of a game like that where you know that their offense outmatched the defense they were playing up against, and you really can't learn --  
KOLIN HILL: Yeah, it's definitely kind of hard to gauge, but we go into it with just a mindset.   
 Q.  Was it clear kind of the loss that not having Jah'Shawn out there as a leader on that defense the first couple plays --  
KOLIN HILL: Yeah, a guy like that is definitely somebody that we definitely need on the field.  The leadership, he has leadership qualities and plays that happened in the game possibly wouldn't have happened if Jah'Shawn was playing for sure.   
 Q.  How can this team really learn from this last game but particularly the first quarter, the adversity you faced in this game?  
KOLIN HILL: I mean, yeah, like all the stuff that went on in that first quarter is just part of the game, but we have guys that can step in and make plays just like the guys that got ejected or whatever.  We have guys in position.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT