TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 24, 2017
Kolin Hill
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Kolin, what do you see most from Oklahoma's offense?  
KOLIN HILL: Very physical O-line, very skilled players.  That's pretty much it.  They're a good team, a good, solid team.   
 Q.  When you're facing this type of talented team, does that add to the juices to get you guys going for a late kickoff on the road?  
KOLIN HILL: Yeah, definitely ups the ante.  Preparation starts today, so we have to focus on today as far as practice.  Have a good practice today, tomorrow, and the rest of the week.   
 Q.  How do you feel like -- what do you all need to do to recapture the first five weeks?  
KOLIN HILL: Just prepare better.  There is a lot that we need to focus on ourselves as a team.  So it just comes down to us just preparing better.   
 Q.  How will preparation be Saturday?  You guys haven't had a night game on the road yet.  
KOLIN HILL: Yeah, that's one thing we haven't had.  But, I mean, we're going to have the same mentality that we've had for every other game.  Hopefully it's going to be a more crazy environment, but we've just got to up the ante.   
 Q.  Justin a couple weeks ago mentioned at West Virginia he saw during those third and fourth quarters the juice on the sideline kind of lacking.  Is that something you think you got back this week or is that something that's still not there?  
KOLIN HILL: I feel like that's something we need to get as a team.  There are times where we have it, and we'll just get complacent.  So we need to keep that edge on us at all times.   
 Q.  How much of the responsibility that falls on a player, about the coaches trying to rally the troops, but something that you saw in that Houston game, just the players really taking it on themselves, the defensive players, encouraging offensive players and vice versa?  
KOLIN HILL: Yeah, it definitely falls on us.  Our coaches always try to motivate us and keep that edge for us.  But, as a player, as leaders, we need to tell the other guys rally the troops, you know?  Just everybody keep that same mentality throughout the whole game.   
 Q.  Defensively, how do you guys prepare going up against a guy like Baker Mayfield who is just super physical?  
KOLIN HILL: The difference?  I mean --   
 Q.  No, just how do you prepare?  
KOLIN HILL: We're going to take it -- he's definitely a really good player.  So that's one thing.  He's one of the guys and one of the key players in the game.  So we want to make them feel uncomfortable as far as like him having that pocket presence and all that stuff.  We just want to make the whole offense feel uncomfortable as a defense.   
 Q.  Last year this was the game tabbed as the game defense forgot with the shootout with over 1,000 yards between the two teams.  Does that add a chip on the shoulder for defense knowing that you guys can play better than that?  
KOLIN HILL: Yeah, definitely, and that shows our defense is improving each and every week.  We're not the same defense from last year.  That's one thing that we're just going to have that in the back of our mind throughout that whole game.   
 Q.  Oklahoma's left tackle Brown, No. 78 made an All-American team, a big guy being 6'8" and 345.  How does he look to you on the field?  What would be some keys to play effectively against limb?  
KOLIN HILL: Along with him and the other O-linemen, he's physical, they're all physical.  That's something as a D-line we have to match up with, you know, just physicality.   
 Q.  How much difference has it made for you being here, second year playing in Coach Gibbs system?  
KOLIN HILL: At this time in my career here, I'm used to Coach Gibbs defense.  So that's one thing that, as a player, I'm very comfortable with the defense that Coach Gibbs is calling.  It just comes down to all of us executing his calls as a defense.   
 Q.  Would you say the success, the increased success that you've had this year, you said part was playing to rush-in.  Would you say it's more the cause of that or because you've been here longer and gotten used to the calls?  
KOLIN HILL: I personally feel playing rush-in I'm more comfortable at that position because of the size that I am.  Being in the trenches is something that, you know, I'm good at doing, but I feel like I'm better -- I'm more comfortable playing rush.   
 Q.  Do you still communicate with any of your buddies from the Notre Dame team?  
KOLIN HILL: Yeah, I definitely keep in touch with a few of them, especially on the defense, Nick Watkins, he had a big pick against USC this weekend.  So I definitely stay in contact with those guys.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
KOLIN HILL: No, nothing like that.  Just keep in contact with them every now and then.   
 Q.  It's fun playing under the lights again with the home crowd behind you.  But is there a small part of you that loves to go on the road and silence a crowd that's playing against you?  
KOLIN HILL: Yeah, there's no better feeling than that.  On the road, and you have thousands there, just to hear them silent in their own stadium, that's a great feeling.  That's something that we're looking forward to this weekend.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT