PAC-12 CONFERENCE MEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
March 10, 2021
Timmy Allen
Alfonso Plummer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Utah - 98, Washington - 95
 Q. Timmy or Fonz, this is actually for either of you guys.  Allowing 95 points but also scoring 98 points, was it one of those games where you guys just had to find a way to claw your way out of there, because normally you guys ride on your guys' defense, but what was some of the troubles on defense as well?
 ALFONSO PLUMMER:   I would say like we have to play more in control.  They was pressing a lot.  They was doing a pretty good job on pressing the ball, so we have to play in control next time.
 Q. I really want to ask, obviously 98 points today, 90 points your last game against Arizona State.  Are you guys really finding an offensive rhythm that you think is really going to help you the rest of the way?
 TIMMY ALLEN:   Yeah, a little bit.  I just think we're moving the ball well and making open shots.  It's a simple game when you play it the right way.  So I would say so, just got to continue to do that.
 Q. Timmy, this is the third time that you've been to a PAC-12 tournament, but this is the first time that you've won a game.  Is this a little bit of uncharted waters now, you win tonight and now it's a quick turnaround, I mean, what has to happen here in the next 24 hours for you guys to get ready for another one?
 TIMMY ALLEN:   Yeah, I just said that in the locker room, I'm excited and happy that I can give myself one.  A quick turnaround, just got to rest and rehab and prepare.  Same mindset, aggressive mentality tomorrow.  It's a big game.  We know how good they can be.  So we're excited, just got to come in with the right game plan and right approach and I think we'll be okay.
 Q. Fonz, when the ball's moving around the perimeter like that and you a guys were taking care of the ball and looking for each other and not turning it over, how much more dangerous are you guys as shooters when the ball's moving around cleanly like that?
 ALFONSO PLUMMER:   Yeah, we all can hit open shots.  We got a lot of shooters on the team, so I feel like when we move the ball we always like have the confidence to knock it down.  So I feel like we are a dangerous team when we move the ball like that.
 Q. Last year at this time it was obviously when COVID kind of really shut down everything.  Was it different coming back to the arena that was kind of the last place that everybody kind of looked at before COVID shut down or was this just, did you have any of those kinds of memories coming back in?
 TIMMY ALLEN:   Yeah, I had a lot of memories.  In my career I've played here quite a bit, two PAC-12 games, a game against Kentucky, and now.  So I've seen a lot of people in that gym and compared to now it's completely different, but you just got to bring the same approach and create your own energy off your effort and just your game.  So it was different, but I always like playing here in Vegas, it's a good environment.
 Q. Following up, you guys obviously brought a lot of aggression and energy in the first of the game as well as in the beginning of the second half.  That hasn't always necessarily been the case this season, sometimes one half is different than the other.  What's led to kind of where you guys are at now?  It seems like you guys are peaking at the right time and able to kind of gel a little bit more than maybe a few games back.
 TIMMY ALLEN:   Like I said before, I just think we're moving it well and making open shots.  We always come with the same approach every day to practice throughout the year, whether we win or we lose.  We have had couple skids but we just came in with the same approach and stuck to it.  So we're excited about tomorrow, we're excited we can move on, and we're going to try to keep going here in Vegas.  So we're looking forward to it.
 Q. Not to look too far ahead, but when the brackets were announced, you guys had both USC (No microphone.) Is that a big (No microphone.) Knowing you're facing a team you just recently beat and knowing if you win that Colorado is probably waiting?
 TIMMY ALLEN:   We're not worried about the past, to be honest.  I know USC is going to want to get some revenge for what we did to them at our place.  But we just got to come with the same approach.  We're not really worried about who we played or who we beat previous to now, because this is a whole different situation and we know what can happen in March, so you just got to come in with the right mindset and attack.
 Q. Timmy, you posted a double double tonight and I just was wondering what helped you to be so effective in so many aspects of the floor for the entirety of the game?
 TIMMY ALLEN:   Just being aggressive, trusting my teammates, coming with the right approach and being ready to play.  It's the simple things that can get you going here down the stretch.  Everyone's tired, everyone's hurt, it's really just your mentality and how you approach the game.
 Q. I know you've put in a lot of work in terms of your ball handling and taking on that role, especially lately with Rylan not being available, the ball is in your hands a lot more, a lot more responsibility.  What's it been like here for the last five, six, seven games having the ball in your hands more and having to take on that role as well?
 TIMMY ALLEN:   It's been fun, to be honest, I'm not going to lie to you.  I think I'm someone who is very unselfish and can make plays for my teammates and guarding me you have to honor me because you know I'm going to be aggressive and attack you as well.  So I'm just trying to make the best of both worlds, keep my teammates involved and score the ball and try to keep my turnovers down.  When I do that I think I'm pretty good at it.  So I'm just looking to continue to build and grow, but it's been fun, man, just making plays, that's the type of unselfish player I am, so I'm enjoying it.
 Q. For either of you, two games against USC, you guys have defended Evan Mobley very well twice.  What was working in those two games and maybe what adjustments might you expect from them tomorrow?
 ALFONSO PLUMMER:   Yeah, the game plan that the coach has had for us is a really good plan.  It always works.  We always talking on defense, we always like rotate in the right spot at the right time.  So I feel like if we keep following these plans of the coaches, it's going to work, for sure, tomorrow.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT