AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: ASTROS VS RED SOX
October 14, 2018
Mookie Betts
Jackie Bradley, Jr.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Red Sox - 7, Astros - 5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions for Mookie Betts or Jackie Bradley, Jr.   
 Q.  Mookie, before the game A.J. Hinch called you a ticking time bomb.  Do you feel like you exploded tonight?  
MOOKIE BETTS: I mean, it is what it is.  I just go out and do what I can to help the team win, try and be consistent in having some good at-bats and getting some timely hits and whatnot.  But it's not just me.  We've got 25 guys out here to win.   
 Q.  Jackie, your approach on the three-run double, and Alex was saying during the year you made some adjustments.  And ever since you've been the kind of professional hitter that they need.  
JACKIE BRADLEY JR.: First at-bat, I think it kind of starts back with that, I saw a lot of off-speed pitches with the bases loaded.  Second at-bat, got started off with a fastball and saw another off-speed pitch and I was in a hitter's count.  So I just wanted to not do too much, see a pitch in the zone that I could handle and I got it on the 2-1 count.   
 Q.  Mookie, how often do you practice taking secondary leads?  And what's your approach determining when it's the right time to go on a passed ball, something like that?  
MOOKIE BETTS: I'm not sure I've ever practiced secondary leads, to be honest -- not in professional ball, really.  Just something that kind of naturally happens.  You talk about it and whatnot.  I think it's just instincts.   
You've got to trust what you see.  That's what I've always been told.  And anytime you start thinking about what you want to do here, what you want to do there is when things kind of go wrong, so trust your instincts is kind of what I always do.   
 Q.  Either or both of you, just knowing the struggles David has had this time of the year, how you felt for him going out after the standing ovation and then Barnes gets the third out in that inning?  
MOOKIE BETTS: He pitched a great game.  I think no matter what you say about him he's a great pitcher.  He goes out and takes a ball every time.  He's a competitor, for sure.  He has that dominant presence on the mound.  And he showed it today.   
JACKIE BRADLEY JR.: Definitely.  After they put up four runs, he still allowed us to stay in the game.  He competed his tail off and we were able to tack on a few runs when we needed.  And, like he said, before, he's an ultimate competitor.   
 Q.  After yesterday, kind of a difficult day offensively, how important was it to establish a tone in the first inning to actually get those runs pushed across?  
MOOKIE BETTS: You know, I think just one of those days, you know.  Unfortunate that it happened in the playoffs, only getting two hits.  But it's just one of those days.  So I knew we've been really good at turning the page.  And there's no sense in stopping.  And we went out and did our thing today.   
 Q.  Can both of you talk about going to Houston 1-1 and with Nate on the mound Tuesday?  
JACKIE BRADLEY JR.: We're excited to get there.  We're going to the series, like you said, tied 1-1.  And we're ready to compete.  I think everybody is going to enjoy themselves and we're going to just keep continuing to take it one game at a time.   
 Q.  What were the guys saying in the clubhouse or dugout about Chris Sale not being there and were either of you able to communicate or send a text or anything yet?  
JACKIE BRADLEY JR.: No.  I don't think anybody was saying anything in the clubhouse or dugout.  We're focusing on winning a ballgame.  Obviously I'm not sure of all the details with Chris as we sit here right now.  So that's new to me.  I'll check on him afterwards.  Thanks for letting me know.  (Laughter).   
 Q.  You guys understand the variables involved in balls that are hit by the wall better than just about anyone.  That last ball that Bregman hits, how hard of a play is that when it's kind of going straight up and then coming down next to the wall and what was your view of it?  Did you think that was -- that Benintendi clearly had it or were you wondering?  
JACKIE BRADLEY JR.: From my view, off the bat I thought it was too high in a sense to get to the wall.  But as you see, Alex does a really good job of barrelling balls up.  So even though I thought it was high, it still had that great trajectory for Fenway.   
And at first I just thought it was going to be a normal out.  Maybe one step on to the track.  But as I saw Beni go back and get closer to the wall I started darting over to his way in case of the bounce off the wall.   
And he told me personally that the ball came back.  So I'm glad that it did.   
 Q.  When the bottom of the order is going, Jackie gets on base, or Mookie or somebody else in that portion, does it create a different dynamic, Mookie someone's on base in front of you, and, Jackie, do you think about that when you're batting that Mookie is coming up pretty soon after you?  
JACKIE BRADLEY JR.: I think it just extends the lineup.  We like to be able to put together great at-bats up and down the lineup no matter who's up.  We like to have that mindset of do your job and kind of pass the baton to the next person; get on base any way you possibly can.  And I like to be aggressive.  I know they're not going to pitch around me to get to Marcus or whoever is behind me.  So I just continue to try to see good pitches and compete.   
MOOKIE BETTS: Yeah, I think when those guys started rolling, it definitely makes our whole lineup a lot better.  We have some good bats in our lineup.  And I think when that lineup is extended and you start getting guys on base throughout the whole lineup, it makes definitely for a long day for the pitcher.   
 Q.  Speaking of the trajectories of Fenway, Jackie, have you seen a replay of the three-run double?  
JACKIE BRADLEY JR.: Yeah.   
 Q.  What did you think about the way it bounced around there in the corner; have you seen something like that before?  
JACKIE BRADLEY JR.: Not ever since I hit the ladder.  I want to say that was two years ago or maybe a year ago.  But it's pretty cool.  I've never seen it ride the top of that little edge like that before.  It's pretty unique.   
 Q.  Obviously you guys aren't in the bullpen with him, but when you get a guy like Ryan Brasier coming into your clubhouse after everything he's been through, does he bring a new perspective?  
MOOKIE BETTS: I'm not sure about new perspective.  But he has that presence that when he takes the mound that you know something good's going to happen.  He's a dog.  He gets on that mound, he doesn't care who's in the box, he's going to get you out.   
I think having that mindset is huge, especially being somebody in the back end of the bullpen and he's definitely proven why he belongs.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT