ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 13, 2019
Romain Langasque
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. A 65, the numbers don't tell the full story.  Tell us about that round from your point of view?
ROMAIN LANGASQUE: Yeah, it was a good round.  Like yesterday and the first round, my long game is really, really solid.  My driver is on fire.  I'm driving like every fairway and quite far away, so I'm really confident about that.
So that gave me a lot of opportunity because I hit a lot of green, and then I just stayed patient, because today, I started really well, but a few putts just lipped-out quick in the round and I stayed patient and I made birdie, 7, 8, 9.  8, 9, was really good because really tough holes.
I just stayed patient and really good on 16 again, after missing two times six-foot for birdie on I think 13 and 15.  So really happy about that.
Q. Four top six finishes for you so far this season.  How much are you looking forward to the opportunity tomorrow to go out and win your first European Tour event?
ROMAIN LANGASQUE: You know, I will take it if I won, and I will just be focused on do my best.  I'm playing really good since two or three weeks now and I just didn't get the momentum.  This week, I'm in a good form, and I think I have a good chance because I'm playing really, really well, and I will do my best tomorrow because I want to win now.
Q. Another very solid, consistent round of golf.  How much are you enjoying your experience here so far?
ROMAIN LANGASQUE: Yeah, I really enjoy my well.  As I said before, I'm playing really well, really consistent and my driving is really good.  I'm hitting a lot of greens and a lot of birdie opportunities and I just stayed patient and some putts dropped at the end, so that was good.
Q. Just the two dropped shots all week so far, but that eagle on 16 today, is that the highlight?
ROMAIN LANGASQUE: Yeah, it was good, because I was playing really solid, as I say.  I missed two times six-foot on 13 and 15, so I was a bit nervous, and just a good putt on 16 and a good par to finish.
Yeah, that was a really good round.  I look forward to being in contention for tomorrow.
Q. Tomorrow is a day where it all gets a little bit more high pressure.  How do you relax tonight and prepare for what could be a very big day tomorrow?
ROMAIN LANGASQUE: Like I do like every week.  I'm just going to have a stretch with my physical trainer and go back home and have a bit of pasta go to bed and that's it.
Q. It is a big week, as well, next week.  It's new territory, your first major as a professional.  How important is this week in building towards The Open?
ROMAIN LANGASQUE: You know, I prepare myself to be ready for next week, and I'm ready this week, so that's good news.  I will arrive over there really confident and this is a tough golf course, I have played there as an amateur and I remember this is really tough.  But I like the tough course.  I like the tough conditions, so I'm looking forward to having that next week and I hope I will be ready to have my chance again.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT