MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2016
Romain Langasque
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Well done. Fantastic today.   
ROMAIN LANGASQUE: Thank you.  
   
 Q. You must be pleased with that to finish 31 home?  
ROMAIN LANGASQUE: Yeah, that's pretty good. I just played really good the back nine. I was playing really good the first nine, but just missed some putts and I needed to drive it like two meters and I knew I just needed to be patient and play my game on the back nine. But I missed putts on 11, 12, 13, but after the wind turned for me and just a good like four birdie on the last five holes to finish, so just amazing finish for me and pretty good.  
   
 Q. When you won the amateur championship last year you told us you were going to play at St. Andrews and then turn professional. You must be glad you changed your mind.   
ROMAIN LANGASQUE: Yeah, I tell that, but I didn't really, I didn't think that when I said that, because Masters is amazing and now I realize I have, and I took a goodie six to play the Masters, because that's no tournament are like this one and I really want to came back here really quick, because that there is no tournament like this one, like the Masters, and that's it.   
   
 Q. What did you hit in on number 15 and how long of an eagle putt?  
ROMAIN LANGASQUE: I got 235 meters and I hit hybrid. Which I hit a little push, but with that wind it came back at the end and just missed the putt, but it was a really good shot.  
   
 Q. Was 16th best putt of the week for you?  
ROMAIN LANGASQUE: 16 and 15th second day.  
   
 Q. Oh, yeah.   
ROMAIN LANGASQUE: Yeah, but, yes, when we left the tee with my caddie I told him, this is the chip that Tiger made and if I can make it in. And I just hit a good chip and it went in.  
   
 Q. What's the biggest thing you'll take from this week, the biggest thing you'll learn from or enjoy?  
ROMAIN LANGASQUE: It's amazing, I learned a lot yesterday because the course was really tough and like 4‑ or 5‑under was a good score and I think I was maybe just too much, too much 1‑over or even par so just learn a lot, I see Bernhard Langer is now close to the lead and I learned from him and I hit the ball 14 meters longer than him, but you just have to be patient on a big course like this one, just to do your best every shot and you have to have a good strategy and to play your golf.  
   
 Q. You must feel ready to turn professional and play in big events all the time because you've done well in Major Championships?  
ROMAIN LANGASQUE: Yeah, I really, really want to be quick on the TOUR and to do my job on the TOUR and I will want to have a chance and do my best and after we will see if I can do quick on it, but I will just try to do my best all the tournaments.  
   
 Q. How much is it a boost that you've already finished second in a Challenge Tour event, that you've done that, now you're going to be a professional, is that a big boost?  
ROMAIN LANGASQUE: Yeah, that's a big boost because now I can take category for this tournament next year, so the pressure is less to get back here, but my objective is finishing in the top 15 and going to the tour quick. And after my dream is to play on the PGA TOUR all the time. So, just, just now continue to play my game step by step and then we will see.   
   
 Q. Was this the sort of springboard that you were looking for for your career?  
ROMAIN LANGASQUE: Yeah, that I think is the best way to finish on in a big tournament like this one and finish on this tournament and on Sunday with 4‑under is just perfect for the confidence and for everything.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT