MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 8, 2016
Romain Langasque
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. (Question regarding Bobby Jones.)  
ROMAIN LANGASQUE: I just do my best and thanks to him to give the entry to the amateur and to create the Masters and I will do my best the next two rounds.  
   
 Q. Maybe he was watching on 15. Tell us about your eagle.   
ROMAIN LANGASQUE: Well, it was just like I asked my caddie, can I have a yardage to the flag. We did a good job after the second shot, I was 50 meters and wind against, so perfect. I just hit a really good one. I think that, if it's not going to go in, but it was amazing how difficult it is when there is lots of people around when my ball go in. That sound coming to me. So, no, just amazing. And that give me two shot to play the Tournament with. I made a mistake on 17 with the second shot, but I make a good one on 18 to finish.  
   
 Q. Were you nervous after the bogeys coming into 18, worrying about the cut line?  
ROMAIN LANGASQUE: No, yeah, I was nervous, but not about the bogey, because I'm in, because I can make the cut. So I just say, okay, we could hit a big drive, so I try to hit a good drive so it goes long and uphill. And it's a perfect second shot. And I think with three putts I can make the cut, too, but I was just doing my best on the 2‑putt and it was good.  
   
 Q. It appears Bryson DeChambeau might also make the cut. At least two amateurs. How important will it be to you, what will it mean to your heart if you are low amateur?  
ROMAIN LANGASQUE: I just want to do my best and, really, I hope Bryson will make the cut, and we will have a good time on the weekend. But just do my best, if I finish best, I just tell myself that's one better thing, but not important for me.  
   
 Q. Have you competed against him in tournaments before?  
ROMAIN LANGASQUE: Sorry?   
   
 Q. Have you competed against him previously?  
ROMAIN LANGASQUE: I do not understand.  
   
 Q. Have you played against Bryson in tournaments?  
ROMAIN LANGASQUE: Oh, yeah, I play against him at The Georgia Cup one week ago. It was a match play. And I think that he's a really good player, solid player, so if he can make the cut I think it will be interesting to play with him.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT