FUBON LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP
October 22, 2015
Alison Walshe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What just happened from start to finish?
ALISON WALSHE: Got the call at pretty much 6.00 decided I was going to come and got on a nine o'clock night.  I think it took me, literally when I landed it was about 24 hours when I took off.  Got to the hotel just after 11:00 PM.  Kind of figured everything out and then went to bed and then got up this morning and had my first warm up in like -- I haven't been playing golf.  So it was a little interesting.  Tripled the first hole today but got it back.  I was 7-over on the front or 6-over on the front or 6-over total or something.
I got a really bad break on the first hole of the day.  I went into the bunker and it plugged and we were just like, this is karma.  So I was like, wow.  I thought coming any ways, I had nothing to lose and when that happened, I was like, there's nothing to lose.  Went on and played well on the back nine and I guess that's the benefit of a no-cut tournament, three more days.
Q. How many birdies on the back nine?
ALISON WALSHE: Two or three.  A couple on the back.  It was a little weird in the beginning.  I just kind of felt groggy.
But I think because of the adrenaline of rushing here, playing here, I don't necessarily feel tired.  But I know my body is tired, you know what I mean.  I think tonight I'll crash.
Q. What time did you get the call?  It was in the middle of the night?
ALISON WALSHE: It was like 5:30 in the morning, my phone was buzzing like crazy and it was a bunch of players being like, "Dude, I didn't know you were coming; I'm excited to see you."
I was like, "I don't think I'm coming.  What are you talking about?"
They are like, "You're on the tee sheet."  And then Mindy Moore more called, and then she kind of told me there was a flight.  I wasn't going to come unless I could get there last night.
Q. Did you think you would get here this morning to come play?
ALISON WALSHE: Well, yeah.  At first she's like, "Well, you could maybe get in that morning."
I was like:  "If I get in that morning, I'm not doing it, because there's no point."
And she was like:  I know there's a point, if you look it up and get on it in time, you can get to Narita and down here Wednesday evening; and once I heard that, I was like, I'll do it.  I mean, it's a no-cut tournament, money to help the Money List, nothing to lose.  So I figured come out here.
Q. And you're close to get in next week, too?
ALISON WALSHE: Yeah.
Q. Have you ever had to do anything like that?
ALISON WALSHE: No.  It's weird mentally more than it is physically, I think.
Q. Weren't you thinking of what to pack --
ALISON WALSHE: Yeah, I just threw stuff in, and I've never been to this golf course.  I was just -- physically I've played golf without having practiced but mentally, I was like, oh, what's this hole do and just kind of getting ready for that whole set.  It was a little bizarre.
I played in an event a week ago and that was the only full 18-hole round I've played since the Evian.  I went on vacation and I literally have not been practicing.
Q. Where you go?
ALISON WALSHE: Boston and Martha's vineyard and Newport, Rhode Island and kind of been casually hanging out at home.  I played that round for Gary Player's event and 14 holes with one of the girls like 2 1/2 weeks ago and that's about it, just kind of fun golf.
Q. Dave is on the bag?
ALISON WALSHE: That's nice, because he's a friend.  So it wasn't a stranger.  Nice to have that option.  He was great.  He walked the golf course for me.
Q. So goal now is probably get some sleep?
ALISON WALSHE: Yeah, now I'm more excited.  Before I was a little weirded out but I'm excited.  Goal is to go get rest, come back out.  That's the benefit of a no-cut tournament, I have three rounds.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT