PORTLAND CLASSIC PRESENTED BY CAMBIA HEALTH SOLUTIONS
August 28, 2014
Alison Walshe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Besides the food trucks, good finish.  
ALISON WALSHE:   Thanks.  
   
 Q.   How did it feel to finish off on that positive note?  
ALISON WALSHE:   Good, because 17, I mean I pushed my drive, so I knew it was going to be a pretty good par to save, but obviously I didn't.   Just get one more birdie.   That pin is pretty accessible.   And then just to make the putt was just a nice little comeback.  
   
 Q.   How long was that?  
ALISON WALSHE:   It was probably like 35 feet.  
   
 Q.   Coming into this week, you've been on a tough stretch.  
ALISON WALSHE:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   Been changing anything, working on anything?   What's been going on?  
ALISON WALSHE:   Yeah.   Actually, I've been having a pretty terrible time.   But I had an old coach fly out this week from college, and we kind of looked at my college swings, to be honest, and we kind of had a little epiphany about something I've changed, and we kind of went back to what was working then, which I don't know why I ever kind of went away from it, and we kind of grinded the first two days, and I just had to trust it, and I did.   And actually hit some really good shots, so it was kind of refreshing.  
   
 Q.   All right.   Is it Monday and Tuesday?  
ALISON WALSHE:   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   What's his name?  
ALISON WALSHE:   Michael Haywood.  
   
 Q.   From‑‑  
ALISON WALSHE:   Tucson, Arizona, yeah.   So he came up, and then with him and my coach at home, we kind of collaborated some work.  
   
 Q.   When was the last time you saw him?  
ALISON WALSHE:   I see him periodically when I visit and stuff.   He's kind of been in the know of what I'm working on with my coach back home, and I just kind of expressed my struggles to him; and him being on the West Coast, he was like, I'll fly up, you know, just at least be someone to hang out with or something.   So it was nice.  
   
 Q.   What's your coach's name back home?  
ALISON WALSHE:   Jeff Leishman.   
   
 Q.   All right.   Did he bring like film, was he just like here's a VHS?  
ALISON WALSHE:   We really looked at like still pictures from college, which is kind of terrible, the weight.   I was like, oh, my God, look at me.   
No, we really looked at pictures.   I'm not one to hugely look at video, but we noticed my grip was really strong in college, and I almost have a borderline really weak grip now, which trying to get to a spot, it's pretty hard for that position.   So it was good.  
   
 Q.   What about this course you like most?   You were familiar coming into it?  
ALISON WALSHE:   I like it a lot.   It's really traditional.   Kind of reminds me of Northeast golf.   Greens are awesome, rolling good.   So if you're hitting the ball well, you got a lot of good opportunities.  
   
 Q.   What about conditions in the afternoon?   You thought greens were maybe a little bumpy or dried out?  
ALISON WALSHE:   A little bit.   But honestly, the greens are so nice that they held up pretty good.   They weren't too bad.   You know, you had some spots, but I wasn't too worried about them.  
   
 Q.   And let's talk about the concert.  
ALISON WALSHE:   Oh, my gosh, yeah.   I went to the eagles.  
   
 Q.   How did that go down?   How did you get the tickets?   Who did you go with?  
ALISON WALSHE:   You know, Rob Neal hooked up Pat Hurst as a past champion, and I don't know his connection there, but pat was nice enough to invite me because she knows I'm a good Eagles fan, and a few of us went, and it was my third time seeing them.   And it was awesome.  
   
 Q.   Really.   Where did you see them before?  
ALISON WALSHE:   I've seen them in Boston twice.  
   
 Q.   I heard they played for like three hours.   
ALISON WALSHE:   They did.   They played 8 to almost midnight.   I think they played 27 songs.   It was awesome.  
   
 Q.   First time you've ever done a concert on a Wednesday night before?  
ALISON WALSHE:   Yeah.   I was a little stressed out.   Yeah, no, I took it easy.   I got some rest.   I slept in, but I don't know, I had a fun night.   
   
 Q.   Awesome.   I'll have to check the concert schedule in where is that Prattville, I guess.   Cool.   Anything you wanted to improve on for today?  
ALISON WALSHE:   No, just keep working on that stuff that we kind of came up with in the beginning of the week and just kind of get in the green.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT