LPGA KEB HANABANK CHAMPIONSHIP
October 19, 2013
Alison Walshe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talked to Marty a little bit.   What was the whole inspiration behind the windmill yesterday on the first whole hole.   How did that come about?  
ALISON WALSHE:   We kind of took one of the windmills in the practice round on Thursday.   We were joking around, We were like, what's the deal with these windmills?   
We brought one to the first tee and we stuck it in for the wind gauge.   We made joke of it, and then the next day, sure enough, we get there and it's standing there.   It was a symbol on the first tee.  
   
 Q.   How long have you and Marty been working together?   
ALISON WALSHE:   We just started this Asia swing.   First week was China, so two weeks ago.  
   
 Q.   How is it going?   Seems like you two are having a lot of fun.   
ALISON WALSHE:   Yeah, she's a riot.   She keeps me pretty relaxed out there, so it's been fun.  
   
 Q.   Seems like you have a lot of fun out here; is that true?  
ALISON WALSHE:   Yeah, I mean, you have to, otherwise it's miserable.   I mean, obviously I get upset and angry and stuff, but at the end of the day it's golf.  
If you're not having fun, I mean, I don't know, I wouldn't be out here.   I try to make it fun.   
   
 Q.   So you think that whole perspective helps you on the golf course?  
ALISON WALSHE:   I think so.   I think so.   Especially when you're over here for like a month.   If you're not having begun you're just going to be that much more miserable.  
Obviously you get upset, but then you got to move on get that attitude back and hopefully make a birdie to get back.   
   
 Q.   You had a good week last week.   Now you're right up there again.   Is that kind of motivation carrying through, or something different?  
ALISON WALSHE:   Last week I was hitting it good.   I stuck with it.   This week, same thing..   I'm putting well, so I think that's big think.   Out here everybody in these events is a really good player, so I think if you make couple more putts, have that many more birdies.   That's been the key, I think.  
   
 Q.   Have there been any swing changes, or all just been kind of mental?  
ALISON WALSHE:   Not much.   Same stuff.   Still work with the same coaches.   No, it's just been mental really.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT