MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 19, 2013
Alison Walshe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MODERATOR:   We'd like to welcome in our co‑leader, Alison Walshe, into the interview room.   Great round.   Big birdie on 18.   Talk about the putt and how that hopefully will give you little bit of momentum going into the weekend. 
ALISON WALSHE:   Yeah, it was obviously a nice way to finish.   Any birdie, I'll take it.   It's good.
To do it on the last hole was nice to have a little momentum overnight and going into tomorrow.   At the same time, ties me with the lead, so it was kind of important. 
MODERATOR:   What was different today than yesterday?   Today not as many birdies, but still another solid round.   What were the differences between round one and round two? 
ALISON WALSHE:   The weather.   I mean, it was really breezy out there this afternoon.   On the first hole alone it was like a 15‑mile‑per‑hour wind.   So it was going to be up and down.   You can't be too aggressive on certain tee balls or certain approach shots.
So that kind of made the difference.
MODERATOR:   Someone said with the vision of getting your first win, was there any feeling or any thought coming into this week that you're on the brink of a breakthrough?   Just what are your thoughts on holding the lead after two rounds? 
ALISON WALSHE:   I mean, I'm always trying to win.   Always dreaming the dream to win a tournament.
I'm really pleased with my game, so I think it can happen.   I step up to the tee every week right now and I'm pretty confident.   It's pretty nice to have two rounds and be in contention and not fighting to try to come back and be in the leader's group on Sunday.
Hopefully I play well tomorrow and have a chance to do that on Sunday.
MODERATOR:   Questions. 

Q.   How many putts today? 
ALISON WALSHE:   Give me a second. 
MODERATOR:   29 or 30? 
ALISON WALSHE:   I don't know.   Is it written somewhere? 
MODERATOR:   I think it was 29 or 30.
ALISON WALSHE:   All right.   We'll go with that. 
I think 29.   Could be off, though.
MODERATOR:   We'll double check. 

Q.   Yesterday was 22 with 11 one‑putts. 
ALISON WALSHE:   Yeah.

Q.   Those days don't happen very often.   How did you feel after that?
ALISON WALSHE:   Going into today? 

Q.   Yeah. 
ALISON WALSHE:   It's literally you practice what you get.   All I did this week was grind on my putting.   I went out the first say, and, I mean, obviously a 22 putting day, you're not going to get that every day.   That's a great day.
But I worked my butt off on putting earlier this week.   To go out that first day, it's kind of reassuring.   You practice what you get. 
Going into today I didn't expect to have another 22 putting day.   If I did, I did.   I was happy with my putting again today as well. 

Q.   You didn't have some silly number of one‑putts today?
ALISON WALSHE:   No, not a silly number.   It was hard.   It was breezy out there, so getting close was tough. 

Q.   An off‑beat question, but the 14th hole, how would you describe it? 
ALISON WALSHE:   14?   What do I think of what's going on?   I love it.   I love this type of stuff.   I love when the crowd is going nuts and we get involved and the caddies get involved. 
I heard it when I was on the first hole today.   I was looking forward to it.   So I think it's really cool.   The fans were great.   Everyone in my group got involved. 
So I think it's pretty special to have that. 

Q.   Did you throw anything?
ALISON WALSHE:   Yeah, I threw a couple golf balls.   I raced; my caddie raced. 

Q.   Your caddie won?
ALISON WALSHE:   He should have won.   He had it all the way to the last five yards.   He started strong and then he was a little bit weak in the end.

Q.   What's his name?
ALISON WALSHE:   Mike Berger. 

Q.   You talk about you always live the dream, the dream, the dream.   Do you start thinking about that now, or is that still another day away?
ALISON WALSHE:   It's definitely another day away.   I'm thinking about what I'm going to eat.   You know, like tomorrow I can go out there and first hole, just the First Tee bail is what matters.
Then on Sunday, if I'm in that position coming down the last through holes I'll think about it.   I'm not going to think about it yet.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT