MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 18, 2013
Alison Walshe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MODERATOR:   Good afternoon, everyone.   We would like to welcome our current leader, Alison Walshe, into the interview room.   A great 6‑under, 65 today in some difficult conditions with the heat out there.
Take me through the day.   What was working well for you in your game? 
ALISON WALSHE:   I think the difference for me today was definitely my putting.   I had struggledon it last week and came out here and did a lot of work on it.   Actually coincidentally I 3‑putted the first hole and I was like, Here we go again. 
Then 1‑putted the next hole and got my confidence going.   Made a lot of putts today, so that was pretty key.
MODERATOR:   When look at your year overall, how have you felt about your game?   Do you think there are some things that have been working well lately that you saw this round coming? 
ALISON WALSHE:   Yeah, I mean, I've been hitting it probably the best I've hit it in a long time this year.   I've been giving my myself a lot of opportunities, and it's frustrating that I haven't been able to really go deep and make some putts. 
So I think, like I said, the putting was key, and I think that's going to be key for my to really get the rounds going well.
MODERATOR:   With all this heat, everybody talks about the mornings being a little bit cooler.   It's going to definitely get tougher as the afternoon goes along.   It's supposed to be near 100 degrees in the heat index.   Is it key when you do have the morning round that you take advantage of whatever cooler weather you can have? 
ALISON WALSHE:   Yeah, I think the heat is the heat.   We're going to get it in the afternoon tomorrow.   But I did say I kind of like my draw being the morning today and afternoon.   Normally I don't like this flip flop, but at least I can rest this afternoon.   I think it would be kind of a grind to sweat out there all afternoon, go to bed, and go out there and do it all over the next day.
But it's hot.   At 7:00 in morning I was sweating and I'm sweating now and it's 3:00 or whatever it is. 
MODERATOR:   We've seen a lot of low numbers at this golf course over the years.   When you come into the week, do you think about that, knowing a golf course is played that way where players can put together low rounds?   Or do you focus on yourself and do the best you can? 
ALISON WALSHE:   I just try to focus on myself and beat the golf course.   Yeah, there are golf courses you might see you can score a little lower, but if you get worked up with that you'll put some expectations that you don't need. 
I just try to go one hole at a time regardless of the course. 

Q.   Can you tell us how many putts you had or how many one‑putts? 
ALISON WALSHE:   I had 22 putts today.

Q.   Wow. 
ALISON WALSHE:   And I had‑‑ some of them were off the fringe, though.   But I had 11 one‑putts and I had a chip‑in. 

Q.   Where was the chip‑in? 
ALISON WALSHE:   On 14. 

Q.   I dominated here, but I will do it a little longer.   Was there anything you changed at all in your putting stance or where the ball was or anything?
ALISON WALSHE:   Yeah, actually, I spoke with an instructor, Joe Hallet on some putting.   I have another coach for my swing.   He's out here this week, and we actually did a lot of work this week.   We actually did on article yesterday for somebody on putting coincidentally. 
So we got to grind on that a bit.   He looked at it and just put some extra thoughts in my head, and obviously it paid off.

Q.   Did you feel this coming on?   You had been striking the ball well? 
ALISON WALSHE:   Yeah, yeah.   That's kind of what was frustrating about last week.   I was hitting it too good to not really convert all those putts. 
So it was nice.

Q.   Just to clarify, you were interviewed for a story on putting yesterday?
ALISON WALSHE:   We were doing some work for an article that's going to be coming out on putting.   Stuff that he went over with me a few months back‑‑   and my putting has improved ‑ so we got to work on it the last couple days.

Q.   What was not working well last week?
ALISON WALSHE:   My distance control.   Speed.   So we worked a lot on stroke length and stuff like that just to kind of garner speed for the greens.
MODERATOR:   Alison, I know Solheim Cup is coming up.   While you can't participate in qualifying for the team this year, in two years the rules are changing so that you'll be eligible based upon your citizenship here in the U.S. 
First off, how do you look at it from afar knowing that you've played for U.S. teams in the past, and how excited are you to have the opportunity in the future to be able to make a Solheim Cup team? 
ALISON WALSHE:   I mean, I'm super excited that the rules are changing.   I love the fact that I now have an opportunity.   It's really bothersome in the moment.   You want to be out there.   I'm going to support the heck out of the team.
Hopefully I can just continue to play well to be recognized maybe for the future teams and stuff.   But it's definitely another goal to try to achieve now that I can attain it, I guess.
MODERATOR:   Were you there in 2011?   Did you go there and experience that whole thing?
ALISON WALSHE:   I did.   I did.   It was in Ireland, which is where I was born.   So I went out there and watched the teams.   It was awesome.   To watch that, it's just really thrilling and motivating. 
I am going to go out to Colorado this year.   I think you can feed off that, so I'm looking forward to it.

Q.   Some of the past winners here have said that familiarity is a big thing.   That once they play here they feel comfortable and score well here.   How familiar do you feel with this golf course, and is there something with the greens you learned today too in addition to just putting well?
ALISON WALSHE:   I'm definitely more familiar with it.   I think this is my third time at this golf course.   I played the Pro‑Am yesterday.   I like the golf course because, I mean, I like the bentgrass, but I like the fact that it's tree lined and you can shape shots.   I'm kind of a creative ball striker, I guess. 
But the greens are kind of nothing really different or something you got to get familiarized with.   Just a matter of the making putts. 
MODERATOR:   Any more questions for Alison?   All right, well thank you very much, and best of luck the rest of the week. 
ALISON WALSHE:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT