U.S. AMATEUR FOUR-BALL CHAMPIONSHIP
May 29, 2019
Scott Harvey
Todd Mitchell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Todd, start with you.  You guys are in the final for the first time in four-ball.  What's that feel like?
TODD MITCHELL: It feels really good.  Obviously, we're very excited to be in the position that we are.  It's been a long week, and now it's come down to this.  Try to keep loose and come out here and battle these conditions and see what happens.
Q. Scott, what's it like to be in a final in four-ball after all these tries?
SCOTT HARVEY: I think it's great, man.  Like I said, we've been in this position before as far as playing the early round, the morning round of the final day, and we lost.  We didn't want to do that again.  So now we've come this far, might as well try to finish it off.
Q. Both of you have experience playing in finals in singles events.  How will you use that experience this afternoon?
TODD MITCHELL: For me, the little things like knowing don't just run to the 1st tee without warming up after a long break, just little things like that.  This course is playing so tough, man, it's just play golf and hang on tight.
SCOTT HARVEY: That's exactly right.
TODD MITCHELL: I mean, it's blowing 30 out there, and things are getting firmer and faster on the pins.  I felt like today the pins were more difficult than they were yesterday afternoon.
So I think it's harder to get the ball around the hole.  So you just have to stay committed and hopefully hit a bunch of solid shots.
Q. Todd, you guys jumped on them late in that first nine.  Tell me about a couple of those birdies.  You guys birdied 4, 6, and 9 to win those.
TODD MITCHELL: He made all the birdies on the front, and it was kind of like really hang on.  I mean, he hit great shots and great putts.  Outside of that, we didn't have many -- I missed, I guess, a couple other opportunities that we had, but outside of those, there was putting from 30 feet up tiers and trying to get it close.
SCOTT HARVEY: Wind picked up as the day went on.  Then it got really tough.  With the pins where they are, it's going to be -- it's just going to be hard.  There's going to be bogeys, and there's going to be some birdies, but they're just going to be well-earned.
Q. Any of those early birdies you were especially proud of?
SCOTT HARVEY: Every damn one of them.
You know, yeah.  No. 4 was huge, because they were both inside -- I had about 15 feet, and they had it about five feet or so, right?  And I made it, and they both missed.  And like Todd said, walking off the green, if I miss it, they make it, I'm sure.  So that was a big turnaround.
Q. All right.  See you this afternoon.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT