SHISEIDO WTA FINALS SHENZHEN
October 27, 2019
Andy Bettles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  It's been quite a tough year if you look across the whole of this year. For her to make it here, how big an achievement was that?  
ANDY BETTLES: I think it is. I think it's something she can be really proud of. Like you said, there's been kind of a few setbacks. She had quite a serious injury halfway through the year. For her to make top eight in the world, it's a really good achievement.   
 Q.  Two slam semifinals. What did that do for her confidence? Back-to-back, as well.  
ANDY BETTLES: Yeah, I think that was really good. She kind of made I think probably like I think it was five quarterfinals in a row before making that breakthrough to a semi. The first one was at Wimbledon, which was kind of her probably least favorite slam in terms of the grass. To do it there was a big boost for her. To back it up again in the US Open where she played great throughout, it was excellent.   
 Q.  She has a tough group here. What do you think are the biggest challenges going into that?  
ANDY BETTLES: Yeah, they're both tough groups, to be honest. It's good, kind of a good mix of players. Obviously Karolina serves big. Halep and Andreescu are probably a bit more longer rallies and stuff. Should be good variety.   
But this tournament, every match is tough. It's a bit of a cliché, but this one it's true.   
 Q.  Do you feel the surface suits her?  
ANDY BETTLES: Yeah, it does. Similar to Singapore. I know there's been a lot of talk whether it's similar. It's pretty similar.   
It's slow. Expect kind of long rallies, which is good for Elina.   
 Q.  First year at the Finals was it's fair to say a miserable experience for her. Second year couldn't have gone any better. How has that changed her approach to this year?  
ANDY BETTLES: I think the first year was a bit of a learning curve. She kind of lost her first two matches. Kind of just preparing similar to how we did last year, kind of take the pressure off. Pat yourself on the back a little bit for making it, but lock in for the first match, it's going to be difficult, yeah, get ready for tomorrow.   
 Q.  Physically and mentally, how do you see Elina coming into this?  
ANDY BETTLES: Yeah, I think she's really good. Kind of she played a lot at the end of the year. She's kind of match-fit, match-ready. Had a week or so where we kind of toned it down a little bit.   
I feel she's good physically and mentally in a good place as well for a good last push.   
 Q.  Starting against Pliskova. How are you preparing her for that?  
ANDY BETTLES: I'm hitting some big serves. It's a good thing about this tournament, is that everyone knows each other so well. There's not going to be any real big surprises. We kind of know what she's going to bring. Last couple of days prepared for that. Some obviously big serves, big hitting. Kind of did a few things tactically in the practices just to get ready.   
 Q.  Next year is an Olympic year. What is her approach?  
ANDY BETTLES: I think obviously it's a massive tournament. For her to represent her country and play the Olympics is always really important. I don't think it's the be all and end all for her. It's once every four years.   
Maybe it's the most important, but Grand Slams are always going to be important as well. I think it's difficult to choose between them.   
 Q.  Talk about your relationship and how it's evolved over the years to now.  
ANDY BETTLES: Yeah, I mean, this is our third year together, third year of making Tour Finals. It's obviously going well. Kind of a different role for me this year as her head coach.   
Yeah, to be honest, like I have always said, not that much of a change because I was kind of doing that role for lots of weeks anyway.   
We get on really well. Similar age. I think we kind of understand each other off the court which probably helps on the court, as well.   
 Q.  Before this year Elina won many championships, including the Finals last year. In Grand Slams, there were no breakthroughs. This year was the opposite. How to balance between tournaments and Grand Slams? Is it something she should deal with?  
ANDY BETTLES: It was kind of an interesting one because the two years previously she won five tournaments and four tournaments each year, probably didn't do as well as she wanted in Grand Slams. This year was a little bit different, where she did better in Grand Slams, but didn't pick up as many titles.   
It's not something I can explain so much. Maybe we focused a little bit more on Grand Slams. Hopefully next year it comes together and she can mix the two.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT