IZOD INDYCAR SERIES: HONDA INDY GRAND PRIX OF ALABAMA
April 9, 2011
Ryan Briscoe
Helio Castroneves
Scott Dixon
Will Power
Oriol Servia
Justin Wilson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: We'll get started with today's post qualifying press conference featuring our Firestone Fast Six drivers. We are joined by Ryan Briscoe of Team Penske; Scott Dixon of Target Chip Ganassi Racing; and Helio Castroneves, Team Penske, our defending race winner here; Justin Wilson of Dreyer & Reinbold Racing; and Oriol Servia of Newman/Haas Racing.   
 We'll start with you, Oriol. Qualifying sixth here, your second time since joining the IZOD IndyCar Series that you've made the Firestone Fast Six. Your first time racing here at Barber. Talk about the confidence this position gives you going into the race tomorrow?   
 ORIOL SERVIA: Well, it's always a lot better to be in the Fast Six, not only because you're in the first two rows, but it just feels great. It's the most frustrating thing, like in St. Petersburg, when you're mentally prepared to go three rounds in qualifying and you're knocked out in the first one. You feel like I've only started. So it feels great to at least have a chance to go for the pole at the end.   
 We made a huge improvement. We still don't have it to make the Penske guys nervous, but we're getting there. So I'm very happy for Newman/Haas and all the work over the winter and all the uncertainty, Carl and Bernie just stuck with me, and stuck with us.   
 Now we have a great teammate with James, and a great sponsor with Telemundo so things are starting to roll. I have to give them huge thanks for getting us here.   
 THE MODERATOR: Justin, if you could, talk about the challenges of qualifying today, especially out there in turn 16?   
 JUSTIN WILSON: Yeah, I think we had a pretty good day. We started out I think 11th and 12th. But Dreyer & Reinbold worked really hard. The set-up really came together and this morning the car felt pretty good. We made a couple more changes in qualifying, and it's right there.   
 I'm really pleased to make it into the Fast Six, just like Oriol said. It's kind of a relief to be starting up here more than anything else. I'm pleased with that.   
 In the Fast Six, I got a little carried away going into the second to last corner and lost the rear. But I had already set my quickest time by then, so I wasn't too concerned. I knew the grip level for me was down a little bit, and I had done pretty much all I could do.   
 So I was just happy to continue and like I said, just be here.   
Hopefully, we'll have a good day tomorrow in the Charter car.   
 THE MODERATOR: I have to ask, how's the wrist?   
 JUSTIN WILSON: It's okay. Ryan and I were joking about it. I think the two cripples were here first. So we are joking about that.   
 It's uncomfortable. It's definitely throbbing a little bit now. But when it comes down time to qualifying, you've just got to get on with it.   
 Yeah, the race is going to be tough, especially with Oriol breathing down my neck. Yeah, the feeling gets pretty heavy. Even today I'm feeling it in my right side.   
 So, hopefully, get some good rest. Got a nice long break before the race, and we can keep this Spaniard behind me.   
 THE MODERATOR: Ryan, last year here at Barber, you started ninth and finished sixth. This year, on the front row, so things are looking better.   
 RYAN BRISCOE: Yeah, definitely. I'm loving the Penske Truck Rental car. It looks great and it's feeling great. We unloaded with a very good car, and we've tuned it a little bit, but we haven't had to make any big stabs at it. It's just been a very solid car.   
 Really good preparation from Team Penske from the off-season testing. Yeah, it's just been at the front every session and just chipping away at it. So I'm feeling comfortable, solid. I wish we would have gotten the pole, but we got the front row, and that's a great place to be.   
 This is where, for a few of us, our championship starts here, and I'm looking forward to a good race tomorrow.   
 THE MODERATOR: Helio, you'll start fourth tomorrow. Is that what it's going to take starting there with your teammates on the front row to help you defend this one?   
 HELIO CASTRONEVES: Yeah, certainly we struggled a little bit. When we came to the task, we seemed to be pretty comfortable. But somehow the track changed with probably the other series. We seemed to be most in the group between 12 and 6. The number three group seemed to be most affected on that.   
 We were able to recover on the qualifying, to be honest. We were able to put some good laps together. But in the end of the day, it's great to be -- just adding to what Ryan was saying -- certainly our championship is starting as well.   
 The pressure is good in this place to start in the front, now that we have the double file restart. We want to make sure that -- I want to make sure that I complete the first lap and then go from there.   
 At the end of the day, great team effort for the entire Team Penske. I'm glad I'm in a new car with AAA Insurance, and hopefully we'll get our car to victory lane.   
 THE MODERATOR: Scott, this is a track that really required a lot of grip. Can you talk about the conditions out there today in your qualifying round?   
 SCOTT DIXON: Yeah, today was tough. Actually, our car was pretty good all except for the session that it counted, so that was a little frustrating. We missed on the balance a little bit, and it was just extremely loose once we went for a second run on the red tires and we missed it there.   
 I couldn't get into the corners and carry the speed and get off. Little frustrating, but I think we had the quickest time for qualifying, with obviously in the wrong session.   
 I'm pretty happy with the car. Both Target cars, at least Dario and the Clorox car should be good tomorrow. I think they're having a few issues there, but all in all, not a bad day.   
  
  Q. Helio, can you talk about starting the championship season tomorrow? (No Microphone).   
 HELIO CASTRONEVES: We know this championship is all about points and a lot of small points make a big difference in the end. I have to say that we're starting in a big hole, but we can't give up on those things.   
 Normally in a season, you have one or two races that you're able to give yourself something, a problem and a mistake or something like that, and we already gave it away in the first race. So now we turn the page. We can't keep focus on what happened in the past.   
 Right now we're in a good place in that all three cars seem to be fast here. And we need to collect as many points as possible and move on.   
 THE MODERATOR: We're joined by our pole sitter, who is trying to sneak out of here, Will Power of Team Penske. Will, yesterday, after the final practice there, you weren't the happiest with your car. Now you're on the pole, even though you're as fast as yesterday, you weren't happy. What changes did you make and what did you do out there?   
 WILL POWER: Yeah, we definitely changed the car from the 20-minute session. I still wasn't happy with the car. It still wasn't spot-on. It's just so hard to get a balance around here.   
 But it's just great to get the Verizon 12 car there, because you have to start in the front here. It's very difficult to pass, and it's usually a pretty green race.   
 So, very focused on winning this race. I really want to win it, because I felt we had a really good car last year; a better car than we have this year with speed. We just made a wrong call down on strategy. I just want to make it work. I really want to win it.   
  
  Q. (No Microphone)?   
 WILL POWER: Definitely inside, yeah. Definitely, no question on that  
  
  Q. (No Microphone)?   
 WILL POWER: It's such a short straight, I think it would be very tough for someone to get that run. Never say never, it's possible. But I'll try to do the best job so that doesn't happen.   
 THE MODERATOR: I know that the restart manner is still being determined for tomorrow. Any thoughts on that with our debut of double-file restarts here?   
 WILL POWER: Yeah, I think that they're going to go earlier which will spread them out a bit and hopefully stop the mayhem. Yeah, I'm not sure what they're going to come up with. I didn't know they're still deciding. Things change here all the time, so you never know where you're at.  
  
  Q. (No Microphone)?   
 WILL POWER: I don't know. We'll have to sit down and think about that one. I'm not telling (laughing).  
  
  Q. Is there a tire strategy for qualifying?   
 WILL POWER: Yeah, I said that last year was pretty cool because someone could go out and throw another set on and make it a bit tighter. I like it the way it is because you just lay down your time and that's that. And everyone's basically on the same tire. So, in a way, I don't know.   
 Whatever it is, they change it all the time. But hopefully they'll just keep it as it is for a while.  
  
  Q. (No Microphone)?   
 WILL POWER: Yeah, I just think that the track characteristics are going to make it a less chance of having a problem in the first couple of turns because you're not braking from high speed. The track surface is very consistent and the grip is consistent.   
 So I think there are a number of factors that have played into what happened at St. Pete. That's why I don't think we should do double-file restarts on street courses. Road courses maybe, but on street courses with the bumps and the dust, and the crowns in the road, there are too many variances in grips from road to road. But here, it should work.  
  
  Q. (No Microphone) Can you talk about what happened here last year?   
 WILL POWER: I mean, Chicagoland I would say were the biggest points hit that we took with a car that was going to win that weekend or be on the pole. It was right there. Here we finished fourth.   
 Yeah, we had a really fast car, but we just picked the wrong strategy. I'm just determined to get it right this year.  
  
  Q. (No Microphone)?   
 WILL POWER: Well, yeah, it's just so tight. It's very easy to not get through in some of these rounds if you just happen to pick it wrong or someone balks your best lap or whatever. It's just the nature of the series now.   
 I just said to Robin Miller last night, you can't pick one bad driver in this field, not one. You can't pick one guy that you look at and say, well, he's won races in junior, he could potentially win you a race in an IndyCar on the right day.   
 It's just we've arrived. It's the tightest it's ever been; I really think that. In the '90s it was very competitive. But now with one main car and one main engine, everyone's developed it as much as they can. It is the tightest field because of all that, the tightest field in history.  
  
  Q. (No Microphone)?   
 WILL POWER: It's all the little details. It's really about commitment. That's where you need to pick time up on people but not get being greedy as well. You can get the entrance and the exit. It's a very technical circuit, that's why I like it.   
 THE MODERATOR: Congratulations, Will, on the pole, best of luck tomorrow.   
 WILL POWER: Thank you.   
   
    
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT