IZOD INDYCAR SERIES: SAO PAULO INDY 300
March 13, 2010
Tony Kanaan
Will Power
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. What is your opinion of the racetrack? How have you been able to handle that slipping and sliding all day long? Do you think you can nail the setup when you're leaving part of the racetrack out sometimes? 
 WILL POWER: Yeah, I mean, I like the circuit. I think it's great. You know, I think it's a good decision to qualify tomorrow because it is a little bit tough going down the slippery start/finish straight. You know, like Helio said, it's going to be very physical. 
 But that's what it's all about. Yeah, I mean, setup-wise I think everyone got a little bit closer there at the end, which is going to make qualifying a lot tighter, which is better for the fans. 

 Q. What are you going to do to prepare for the physical and mental challenge of practicing, qualifying, racing all within the same day, probably within about six hours, specifically the physical demands? 
 WILL POWER: Yeah, I mean, that's done over months of training before you even turn up here. So, you know, you have to work very hard in the off-season. I had to work especially hard, because I broke my back and was out for a long time. You know, I think it will be survival of the fittest tomorrow. 
 It's a very tough track. Like you say, you got a lot to do in one day. I think it will be physically and mentally draining. Everyone will be. Yeah, I think it will be a good day, though. 

 Q. On your back, were you feeling it at all going down that bumpy back straightaway? 
 WILL POWER: No, I don't feel it at all in the car. It's not a problem. It's just when I walk around or run or anything, it's direct impact on the spine. Lying down in the car, it's fine. 

 Q. Tony, we're kind of used to doing this. We sat in Japan and watched the water run down in one spot and couldn't race. How do you explain that this happens and we have to deal with it? 
 TONY KANAAN: They know. They follow IndyCar. The explanation was given when we said what we're doing to fix it. I don't think it's a negative thing. I don't think everybody really was upset. The fans are still up there. We ran for an hour. It was a very good session. At first a lot of people thought, We were not going to run. Everybody ran. So it was good. 
 IndyCar, for some of the people that come to the racetrack, not journalists, TV people, but some of the fans that are out here are new fans we got because we came here. They don't know a lot. They don't know if we qualify Saturday or Sunday, what do we do. Everything is so new, so cool, it doesn't matter. 
 They want to see cars running. They saw the cars running. Whoever chose not to come here today is going to get a unique opportunity to see for the first time, at least for me, that you're going to qualify and race on the same day. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT