MASTERS SERIES MONTE-CARLO
April 15, 2007
Benjamin Balleret
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  What was your state of mind in the beginning of the third set?  Were you thinking you made your contract, or did you think you still had room to win? 
 BENJAMIN BALLERET:  I was really into my match.  Unfortunately, I started badly this third set, and after it was difficult for me to come back. 

 Q.  How do you analyze that match? 
 BENJAMIN BALLERET:  I had too much ups and downs.  I had a let-down during three or four games.  That's too long, in my opinion.  This made the difference. 

 Q.  What is the situation now after all what happened last year? 
 BENJAMIN BALLERET:  What happened to me last year was unexpected.  In the following matches I put too much pressure on myself, but I tried my best during the whole year.  I will never thank enough Monegasque Federation for giving me this wildcard this year.  I gave everything I had.  I don't need to be ashamed. 

 Q.  Are you disappointed after the expectations following last year? 
 BENJAMIN BALLERET:  I put pressure on myself, but with this wildcard I didn't want to play only one match.  As last year I wanted the adventure to continue.  Unfortunately... 

 Q.  What happened last year could have triggered a great step forward, but apparently you had too much pressure to build on it. 
 BENJAMIN BALLERET:  No.  I played good matches, but it was difficult.  There were many good players.  And what happened last year is still helping me today for all my tournaments. 

 Q.  What is your goal?  To have the best ranking possible or the highest ranking possible? 
 BENJAMIN BALLERET:  To try to go as high as possible.  To be among the Top 100.  That's a goal all the players have. 

 Q.  How did you spend the hours before the match compared to last year?  You knew people would watch you. 
 BENJAMIN BALLERET:  I tried not to put pressure on myself.  I knew I was going to give my best.  I felt good on the court.  I felt relaxed. 
 This year I was more relaxed.  I didn't have so much pressure. 

 Q.  Winning the first two games was a help? 
 BENJAMIN BALLERET:  Yes.  I felt good.  I was not making things complicated in my mind.  I went on the court to win.  I was not overthinking. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT