BAYLOR UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 21, 2017
Denzel Mims
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








West Virginia - 38, Baylor - 36
Q. Talk about the two-point conversion, what changed?
DENZEL MIMS: We never try to look at the scoreboard, and we always had a mindset that we always could come back.  We just kept fighting and kept fighting.  We wanted the win so bad, and that's what changed it.
Q. A lot of losing streaks would kind of crush a young team.  This one doesn't seem to be that way.  Do you guys feel like you get stronger every week, emotionally even still?
DENZEL MIMS: Of course, of course.  Every day.  Every day after a loss we all come in and just try to look at our mistakes.  We're all hungry and we all want to win so bad, so we're going to keep doing what we've got to do and even do more to try to get the win.
Q. Along those same lines, what's it going to take to get three points better and be on that winning side?
DENZEL MIMS: You know what I'm saying, just knowing our assignments more and just do what we're coached to do.  Even if it doesn't matter what the situation is, just do what we're coached to do.  I feel like that will make us better.
Q. How much of a score did Charlie give to the offense, not only with his hands, but with his arm, but able to extend plays with his feet?
DENZEL MIMS: He gave us a big spark.  It hurts because Zach went out, but it's good to see that he came in, he stepped up, and knows what he had to do as a quarterback.
Q. Is that a good problem to have, to have two quarterbacks that if one goes down, you can rely on the other one to jump in?
DENZEL MIMS: Of course, of course.  We always don't want to be second-guessing the back-up quarterback.  But I've always been confident in Charlie, and I know what he can do.  So when he came in, I was like let's go.  Let's keep it going.
Q. Did you feel the emotion throughout the team when Charlie came in and you guys started getting things going your own way?
DENZEL MIMS: Yes, because we all know what Charlie can do.  We know that he's going to do his job.
Q. Because there are so many young guys on this team that are contributing freshmen and sophomores.  Is it not one of those things where you don't have to build trust in a freshmen, you guys start and trust each other already?
DENZEL MIMS: I don't think it's an excuse for our freshmen saying not to trust them.  I feel like you can trust anybody that showed what they can do, and Charlie shows it every day.  So everybody trusts him, and we trust every freshman because they show it every day at practice.
Q. What's the feeling like whenever you walk off -- well, after the missed two-point conversion, and the fans gave you guys a standing ovation after the game.  They gave you guys a standing ovation and their appreciation to you guys, what's that mean to you guys?
DENZEL MIMS: It means a lot.  It means a lot to know that they're not going to give up on us.  Even though we lose and they're still going to come to the games to support and be there every step of the way.  So it feels good to know that they're still there and they still support us.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT