CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 21, 2014
Danielle Kang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Just want to run me through the round, 6‑under, got to be pretty pleased with that?
DANIELLE KANG:   Today I teed off, just wanted to post a really good score.   It was early in the day.   I felt great coming out.   My game's been building week to week, and I knew the greens were really receptive from the rain and it's not firm.   I just played really aggressive today.   I just went at every pin.   I knew the balls weren't going to play as much, so I just went with my gut and I saw a couple of the putts rolling.   The greens are in amazing shape despite‑‑

Q.   Golf course is great, huh? 
DANIELLE KANG:   Despite what it went through, it's wonderful.   I really like ‑‑ the greens are very true, and also it was just one of the days where the greens are very receptive so you just go at the pins, throwing darts.

Q.   What happened on 9 there?   Pretty big to end with a birdie there?
DANIELLE KANG:   I had a pitching wedge.   I almost holed out three times today, including that it's four. 
The 7th hole, I had the same shot similar to that and I came up an inch short.   I just replayed that shot in my head and put the same feeling in the 9th hole.   I kind of like looking down on the hole.   I think that's Nicklaus' style of course.   I don't know who designed this, but I really like ‑‑

Q.   Robert Trent Jones?
DANIELLE KANG:   I love Robert.   That's what it is.   I love being able to see the holes on downhill shots.   I really liked it.   I wanted to be aggressive, just threw a dart at it and it just stuck.

Q.   Just went for it?
DANIELLE KANG:   Yeah.

Q.   Had a good finish last week, too, didn't you?
DANIELLE KANG:   I finished bogey‑bogey on the last two holes and then finished 25th, I believe. 
But I'm trying to pull myself together.   I had a couple of rough years, so I just decided to pull myself together and get this starting to roll kind of thing.

Q.   Putter has been the thing you have complained about and said has been your issue, is that accurate?
DANIELLE KANG:   A while back.   My old putter made a comeback three weeks ago. 

Q.   What putter is that? 
DANIELLE KANG:   That's my U.S. Amateur putter.

Q.   What kind of putter is it?
DANIELLE KANG:   It's TaylorMade, center shafted Corza.   I always said it was the ugliest putter, but I putt the best with it. 
You know when there is a saying, Don't judge a book by its cover, I'm going to go with that line.   I love him even if he's ugly.   I love and I'm going to keep him.   I've been putting better and better every week.   He's staying in my bag. 

Q.   How important is putting this week?   I would think it's almost‑‑ Stacy was saying she thought you could have bunch of rounds here where you hit all 18 greens just because they're so big here.
DANIELLE KANG:   The greens are so big.   The fairways pretty wide.   I mean, there are some bunkers that come into play as well. 
I just think it's a putting contest.   It's always been a putting contest.   I realize in professional golf, you can't ball strike your way through.   Putting is one of the most important things.   If you are not comfortable with your putting, I don't think you are comfortable with your game.   As soon as I was comfortable with my putter, I just more felt together with my game.

Q.   Going back to the putter from the U.S. Am, is that anything there?   Are you trying to go back to certain things that you did back then when you won?
DANIELLE KANG:   I am.   I'm going back to it.   I actually ditched that putter before in my amateur career, and I didn't‑‑ when I first won in 2010, I told my dad, I don't like this putter. 
He goes, Why do you not like the putter? 
I'm like, it's just so ugly. 
Then he's like, All right.   I don't think you should change. 
Then I played the Open, I played the Wegmans and all of those.   I putted horrible.   Then my dad goes, Put your putter back in the bag.   I did and I won the North & South, British, I won the AM again, and then I ditched it. 

Q.   You would think you would learn something from that?
DANIELLE KANG:   I think I'm going to learn something.   I'm just going to keep it.   I don't need to rock something that doesn't need ‑‑ the boat is sailing, just cruising, I don't need to rock anything. 
Really happy with my putter.   TaylorMade makes great putters and they've designed hundreds of putters for me, but ‑‑

Q.   That's the one. 
DANIELLE KANG:   ‑‑ nothing feels as comfortable as that one. 

Q.   Are there any other parts of your game you're trying to get back to?
DANIELLE KANG:   My short game, just trying to get better at my short game, get more confidence in my iron shots.   Those are the things where I just ‑‑ around the greens are where I need to just improve, and I've just been working on it really hard the last few weeks. 
I also got a new short game coach, Gabriel.   I can't say his last name.   I could text it to you.

Q.   That would be great. 
DANIELLE KANG:   Don't say that I can't say the last name.   I got a new coach.   He used to be a PGA player, and he's a Swedish guy.   You might know him.   Gabriel. 
Anyways, he helped me a lot with my short game, my putting and my releasing the putts.   I got a new ball‑striking coach Brian Mogg.   I just got a new team going on, and I really like it.   I got my old caddie back.

Q.   Who was your old coach?
DANIELLE KANG:   Brady Riggs. 

Q.   Who else does Mo coach?
DANIELLE KANG:   Mogg, Brian Mogg.   He teaches Amy Yang, Caroline Masson, Meena Lee.

Q.   A lot of them. 
DANIELLE KANG:   Amy introduced me to him, and I really liked him, something about his ‑‑ the teaching. 
He came out this week and he watched me for one hole.   That's all he did.   He just goes, All right.   I'm leaving. 
I said, Okay. 
He's goes, You're good to go.   Just keep working on your short game and you'll be good.   Okay, you're right.   He said, Don't change that putter. 
I go, Okay. 

Q.   What was it about the short game that he was looking to fix?
DANIELLE KANG:   Gabriel?   He wanted me to be less technical.   And I had just been worrying about too much of the outcome.   The thing that my coaches Gabriel and Brian always told me, your mentality is good.   It's sometimes your technique.   So I've been working on releasing the club head and feeling the shots more with my club head than my hands, if that makes sense. 

Q.   Yeah, that makes sense. 
DANIELLE KANG:   I worked really hard for the last couple of months, and I'm starting to see my game come together, which I'm really happy about. 

Q.   Have you always been more of a technical player or more of a feel player?
DANIELLE KANG:   I'm a feel player, but sometimes somebody says maybe it's your course management, maybe it's the way you're doing this, maybe it's this. 

Q.   Makes you think about everything?
DANIELLE KANG:   Everything.   But my coach goes, No, no, no.   Your course management is great.   Sometimes I think you need to practice this, so you don't have the technical issue out there. 
So I go, that makes way more sense than someone telling me you don't know course management.   Everyone knows how to play golf at this level.   That made my feel really great.   Just been working a lot of things, gaining distances, reaching par‑5s.   After you reach the par‑5s, you can't three‑putt.   I'm working on that.   Just everything is coming together.   It's always a process. 

Q.   What's the strategy tomorrow? 
DANIELLE KANG:   Still going to attack the pin.   As long as the greens are receptive, I'm going to still play aggressive. 
This is such a beautiful golf course, it is.   Everything is so green.   I was telling them today, This is so quiet.   There's so many trees.   I love everything about this golf course.   I love rivers. 
Anyways, beyond that point, there are some holes that you have to be conservative about, middle of the green and you've got to two‑putt, like No. 8.   I'm not going to attack that pin, I don't care how aggressive I get.   Went for the middle of the green, had a 15‑footer and I lipped out my putt.

Q.   You'll take it and move on?
DANIELLE KANG:   Sometimes you got to take it and move on.   I was told not to be greedy, so I'm not going to get greedy. 

Q.   Inbee was saying if then conditions stay like this, she thinks it might take 20‑under to win this.   Is that something you agree with?
DANIELLE KANG:   I think so.   Because I think you got to be going low every day, especially when the greens are this receptive.   People are going to be throwing darts at the pin.   You're not going to be playing ten yards short and roll it up.   153, you're going to land it 150. 

Q.   That's nice. 
DANIELLE KANG:   Everyone is going to play it at the pins, which will be great. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT