SUNRISE LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY AUDI
October 25, 2012
Danielle Kang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   And the weather was fine today, or was it hot?
DANIELLE KANG:   No, it wasn't.   I was expecting a lot of wind, but it was a great day.   It's so pretty out here, and perfect weather.   And the crowds are so awesome. 

Q.   So better than Korea, the weather?
DANIELLE KANG:   I'm usually more overcast weather, so I don't know.   Korea was a great tournament, too.   And I like it out here.

Q.   And how was your performance do you think today?
DANIELLE KANG:   It was good.   It was really good.   I took it shot by shot.   My brother told me to stay in the zone.
I started off kind of here and there, but putts started going in, I started flagging some shots, so ended up being a great round.

Q.   Take me through birdie the last hole, great way to finish?
DANIELLE KANG:   Last hole, I bogeyed the par‑3.   So I was really bummed.   But last hole I 107 yards and the wind was coming into my face a lot and like the hazard, you know.   So I was like, you know what, I'm going to go for it, so it just went right on and it was perfect yardage.

Q.   Like you were saying, everybody expected it to be so windy here and the wind didn't really pick up.   Was that a huge advantage for you today?
DANIELLE KANG:   I played on Tuesday practice round and it was just miserable.   I was wondering I don't know how I'm going to play.   I don't know if this is even playable.   But it's just been such a great day, perfect weather out here.   So many people.   It's awesome.

Q.   Coming to the end of your rookie season and starting to really kind of put together some great rounds, how would you kind of sum up so far your rookie year?
DANIELLE KANG:   My rookie year.   It's really different than how I started off this year since I didn't get to play much tournaments in the beginning.   And best thing I learned about rookie year is reshuffle.   But I've just been progressively getting better and starting to get used to the tour and people are so great out here.   It's a lot of fun.   The travel.   I'm getting used to it now.

Q.   First real Asian swing, how has this been so far?
DANIELLE KANG:   Everything is set up so perfectly, so I don't have to worry about anything, which is so great.   I'm going to miss the business class flights, but I've been away for like, what, two weeks now, almost three weeks.   I feel like I've been away for five weeks, though, for some reason.   I've been hitting different countries.   But it's fun.

Q.   And overall what's going to be the key for the rest of the week to kind of keep up what you were able to do out there today?
DANIELLE KANG:   You know, I just mind what I do.   Just try to take it shot by shot, try to hit the best shot I can and try to read the right lines and put a good stroke on it.

Q.   Thank you.   Nice playing. 
DANIELLE KANG:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT