BLUE BAY LPGA
October 23, 2014
Danielle Kang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What distance and club on your hole‑in‑one?   
DANIELLE KANG:   151 with an 8‑iron.   My third this year and seventh overall, but two in a tournament.   I got one in Hawai'i.   It pitched 138 and went in the hole.   
   
 Q.   What was the reaction?   
DANIELLE KANG:   Yeah (indicating excitement. )  
   
 Q.   Did it jump start the round?   That had to get you pretty amped up?  
DANIELLE KANG:   It was in the middle of the round.   So, yeah, I was pretty pumped.   On the 18th hole I was still trying to go for it.   I'm an aggressive player, so, why not, let's go.   Missed a lot of putts but there was a lot of good things I did.   
   
 Q.   What were some of the good things?  
DANIELLE KANG:   I was hitting the drive well when I needed to hit it well.   I was hitting the shots well when I needed to hit it well and I hit the chips well when I needed to chip it well.   Sometimes if you don't hit it well, you even it out with a par.   But when you hit a really good shot, it ends up giving myself a birdie chance.   
   
 Q.   Coming off last week, what were you trying to turn around, change?  
DANIELLE KANG:   Last week I had a lot of things on my mind, Korea, and then this week I just wanted to play my game.   So we thought like a hole‑in‑one, I've made seven so far.   And we always talk about getting a car‑‑ I've done two in a practice round.   
   
 Q.   On the car holes?  
DANIELLE KANG:   On the car holes.   
   
 Q.   But not in the rounds?  
DANIELLE KANG:   No.   And I did one in Hawai'i that was not on a car hole, competitive, and this was my fourth technically in a competitive round.   
It was my birthday on Monday, so I was like, I think it's a gift from him, thanks, Dad.   
   
 Q.   How was the birthday?   
DANIELLE KANG:   It was a great week.   I had a really good birthday.   It was the longest birthday of my life actually.   We went on the plane and it was like a charter plane, so everybody is like happy birthday on the plane.   Then I went to sleep and then I woke up.   
And it was still my birthday.   We drove in a car, got to the hotel and then I went to sleep and it was still my birthday and I woke up and I had a full day of birthday.   And then my mom thought, because you know, I don't want to say like Beijing was bad, but we didn't have much things provided in Beijing, like cakes or chocolate.   I was looking for chocolate all week and ice cream etc., and I didn't find anything, so I was telling her all that.   
My mom brought two cakes, lugging it from Korea all the way here, with like five luggages.   I was like, why are you bringing this.   She's like, it's a mother thing.   
So then I actually had a cake, as soon as I got to the hotel, I blew out a candle.   I also had cake when I woke up, because my mom had the second cake and we went to the pool, got a massage, went to the beach and had a huge dinner with everybody, a lot of players.   It wasn't like invite.   It was kind of like just sit.   
Brought out another cake and Westin brought out another cake, so I had like four cakes.   And I woke up the next day and it's birthday in America, so everybody was like happy birthday.   So it was the longest birthday (laughing).   
   
 Q.   Coming into the final stretch of the season, what were some of your expectations?   
DANIELLE KANG:   A lot of things are still pretty tough in my life but everything's kind of getting into place a little bit now.   My swing was a little iffy last week and it's been a little iffy but my short game, got a new short game coach, Gabriel Hjertstedt.   He came out before I went to Asia.   I've seen him for putting and my putting has been improving a lot.   So before Asia, he throughout to where I live and we worked for like ten hours, just short game, chipping up‑and‑down.   
So you know, if one part gets better, the other needs to stay whole and the ball‑striking hasn't really been there for me.   But if my chipping and putting is there, it kind of helps.   Last week, mentally I wasn't really prepared to play.   It was okay, though.   I have a lot of fun, ate a lot of food and came out this week.   And I knew that if I miss a green, I could make an up‑and‑down.   
Today I got a aggressive with a couple of chips and it didn't really sit.   
   
 Q.   So how long have you been working with Gabriel?   
DANIELLE KANG:   Well technically I had a first legit lesson after Evian.   But then I Skype with him so he could check when I'm practicing, if I don't feel good, then I talk to him.   It's helped out a lot.   Short game is a pretty important part of the game.   He's based out of Arizona.   
   
 Q.   What club?   
DANIELLE KANG:   8‑iron, 155.   
   
 Q.   That's practice rounds and competitive rounds?   
DANIELLE KANG:   So when I'm at home making hole‑in‑ones, yeah.   Seven total.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT