U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 6, 2012
Danielle Kang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Looks like you turned things around today? 
DANIELLE KANG:   Yeah.   Today, yeah, I just try to take it one shot at a time.   I want to minimize mistakes kind of thing.   I don't really know.   I just had a rough morning.   I didn't have a great morning.   My friend Brian called me, my brother called me, my coach, trying to calm me down.   Started off the day, kept on hitting only one shot at a time.   Try to focus, just try to put those feet on the greens.

Q.   Tough morning?   Just like depressed? 
DANIELLE KANG:   No, I got a (Indiscernible) it's okay.   When you play golf, you try to block it out. 

Q.   Given what you shot yesterday, did you come out here thinking cut line?   Do you have to think that? 
DANIELLE KANG:   I don't want to think cut line.   I only think about the shot I'm hitting kind of thing.   So if I can make the cut, I make the cut.   If I don't, I don't.   I had a really rough start yesterday.   I just really took‑‑ I mean, I tried my best today thinking‑‑ I don't know, just try to take it one shot at a time and see what brings you out here. 

Q.   Can you talk about the conditions late in the round, changing course, firm, not firm? 
DANIELLE KANG:   I am not sure.   I think I started getting tired maybe because I didn't eat lunch.   I may have gotten tired.   I lost focus here and there.   Tried to go for pins all of a sudden. 
My back started hurting, actually.   I couldn't swing through the ball.   I started missing it left and right.   I tried to stretch a little bit.   I tried to hang in there. 

Q.   So you really have no idea about about the course conditions? 
DANIELLE KANG:   I think it got firmer towards the end.   As it was getting later, my back started hurting more.   So I took a longer club and hit it softer.   That made it run out technically.   So I'm not exactly positive.   It's been in great shape all week.   And the greens are rolling great. 

Q.   Sounds good. 
DANIELLE KANG:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT