THE LPGA DRIVE ON CHAMPIONSHIP
October 24, 2020
Danielle Kang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Danielle, a grinding round out there for you today.  Just overall how you feeling coming off the course?
 DANIELLE KANG:   I'm very frustrated today, but there was a lot of up and downs.  But I think I handled the curve balls pretty well.  Good to finish on a birdie.
 Q. You started on No. 2 there with a bogey but were able to answer with three birdies in a row.  What were you feeling through those three holes?
 DANIELLE KANG:   It was just an unfortunate bogey.  Reachable Par-5 and ended up hitting in the water.  Kind of blocked it.  That was the story of my day.  Just lots of blocks.
 But I missed the five-footer for par on that hole.  I realized that the greens were faster than yesterday, so I got the speed of the greens and ended up rolling in some putts.
 Q. There as of time on No. 9 where you had I want to say a crucial par save as Ally was able to birdie one.  Did you think that was a crucial par save?
 DANIELLE KANG:   It was a huge par save, because these roughs aren't easy and the ball sits down.  It's very hard to judge and you get kind of knuckle balls that just dive.
 Yeah, I'm just like replaying it in my head, the block off the tee.
 Q. I was going to say, we'll get to that one next.
 DANIELLE KANG:   Another one, yeah.
 Q. Yeah, OB on 16.
 DANIELLE KANG:   Caddie is rolling his eyes right now.
 Q. As I ask about it.  The back nine was kind of the story of everyone's day where it was up and down.  What happened there on No. 16 when you went OB?
 DANIELLE KANG:   I pushed it, but I honestly didn't think it was out of bounds.  Unfortunately it was out by a couple inches.  Nothing you can do about it.  It's marked with the white.
 So I was pretty upset because just a waste of two shots right there minimum.  Just not the time to do that.
 But I don't know, the swing felt -- it didn't feel quite all there, so I'm going to go tweak it today and hit it better tomorrow.
 Q. Not only that, but even able to close on a birdie on that par-5, 18th and to get some cheers from the crowd there.  What was that like to hear some fan reaction?
 DANIELLE KANG:   It's actually kind of fun.  I know that people out here are really supportive and they've been kind of boating or jet skiing from hole to hole.  That's pretty cool and fun.  They're all here having fun, so that's the whole point of it, for people watch and have fun and be entertained.  I'm glad they're having a blast.
 Q. Looks like the same kind of final grouping tomorrow.
 DANIELLE KANG:   Uh-huh.
 Q. What is there to take away to aim for a third LPGA Tour victory this event?
 DANIELLE KANG:   I think I got to play a little bit more aggressive.  A lot of times I kind of gave myself a putt and there wasn't a lot of -- like I said yesterday, if one was good the other one was kind of bad.
 So just I think tomorrow I think getting everything together and just firing from the start will be pretty key.  The other two girls ooh playing pretty well, so I've got to focus on my game.  Everyone's game is very different.  I can't really worry about then.  There are no leaderboards, so I don't know who is at where.
 Q. Do you like chasing from behind or are you one of those that would rather have the comfortable lead?
 DANIELLE KANG:   Either or.  I think having an opportunity, being in contention, is important.
 OPHELIA BUNUEL:   One of Girls Golf (indiscernible) is energize, and you need a lot of energy on this course.  What are you going to do to stay energized tomorrow as it will be the final round?
 DANIELLE KANG:   I like to eat, so I eat a lot.  I think food is good energy, so definitely going to have my bag stacked with lots of snacks.
 OPHELIA BUNUEL:   Thank you.
 DANIELLE KANG:   Thank you.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT