DIAMOND RESORTS TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 22, 2021
Danielle Kang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Two back to back bogey-free rounds.  How do you feel?  Do you think your goal for the next two days will be again bogey-free?
DANIELLE KANG:   I haven't really thought about it.  I just -- like yesterday I had a lot of fun out there today and made some good birdies.
This golf course is kind of sneaky tough at the same time, so I just can't lose focus on certain shots.  Three-putts are out there, too, which is scary.
But I'm having a lot of fun.
Q. Of course every round is different.  Do you think a lot changed from yesterday, or just really good golf all around and good company?
DANIELLE KANG:   Yeah, today was -- it was really cool.  I got to play with John Smoltz today, and he's a Hall of Fame baseball player.  I mean -- oh, he's right there.
Yeah, it was really cool to just hang out with him all day today.  And got to play and Cole again.  It was a really fun group.
Q. You mentioned texting Annika earlier.  What do you think --
DANIELLE KANG:   I did?
Q. Yesterday I think it was or during the pre-tournament press conference.
UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:   Annika mentioned it in her press conference.
DANIELLE KANG:   Oh.
Q. Annika mentioned that you guys texted back and forth.  How would you feel to play with her tomorrow or the last round?
DANIELLE KANG:   Oh, it would be incredible to play with her.  I would be really nervous if I played with her right now, but it's actually kind of my dream to play with her at least once.  So it would be really amazing.
Yes, we do text back and forth.  I was like, did I mention that this week?  Yeah, she's a role model of mine and I ask her for a lot of advice here and there.  Her advice has gotten me pretty far.  She doesn't think it's much, but it's helped me a lot.
Q. How did that start?  Did you reach out to her?  Was there something specific you were reaching out to her about?
DANIELLE KANG:   I did reach out to her specifically about stuff, but she's always been just very a welcoming, classy person that has been approachable, always giving me a door to approach her.  So I took it.
Q. What would you say is the best bit of advice you got from her that she might not think was that great?
DANIELLE KANG:   I don't want to share.  (Laughter.)
Q. Okay.
DANIELLE KANG:   I don't know.  I mean, she's helped me with putting, chipping, wedges.  I think it's the way I play as well as what's she's helped me.  Stuff that Butch always says as well, but coming from Annika it really helped.
I don't know, there is a lot to it than just like a specific thing.
Q. Okay.  Have you talked to Butch this week?  Do you talk during tournaments that much?
DANIELLE KANG:   Oh, yeah.  He just texted me.
Q. What kind of feedback has he been giving you watching you on the telecast?  Anything?
DANIELLE KANG:   We just don't talk that much about golf.  Sometimes he just says, Good round, and I say, Thank you.  We have just fun jokes going back and forth.
Unless I really need him about a specific swing Butch wouldn't just give a swing advice in the middle of a tournament.
Actually, fun story.  I'll just kind of deteriorate here, deter here.  I called him one time in the middle of a tournament.  I was leading and I said, I can't hit my 3-wood.
Q. You said I what?
DANIELLE KANG:   I said I couldn't hit my 3-wood.  He said, How are your wedges?  I said, They're good.  He said, Well, you seemed to make four birdies on par-5s.  What's wrong with it?  I said, I just can't hit it.
He's like, Okay.  Here is what you do.  Take the 3-wood, throw it out of the bag.  (Laughter.)
So I said, Okay.  Make the bag lighter for Ollie.  I said, But if it I can hit it I can reach it in par-5.  He goes, Well, it's not happening this week, so...
So that's kind of the advice that he gives sometimes, and it makes you feel good.
Q. Did you take it out?
DANIELLE KANG:   I didn't physically take it out, but I didn't hit it at all for the rest of the two days.
Q. You talked about wanting to feel comfortable on the greens, that that was a goal over your putter.  How are you feeling this week?
DANIELLE KANG:   Not quite there yet.  Obviously a work in progress.  This is the first step in order to what I want to accomplish.  I'm just sticking to my routine and thought process.  Like people say, golf is game between your ears and thoughts that go through my mind.
I'm doing a pretty good job for the last two days.
Q. How good do you feel your game has been over the last two days?  Two bogey-free rounds and a lot of birdies.  How good do you feel about?
DANIELLE KANG:   I feel pretty solid.  Definitely hit some missed shots here and there.  Snap hooked it on 17.  It's there, but like I said, I didn't get to put as much time in it as I want.  Short game is something that I've been really focusing on, and iron game, I mean, it's just -- this golf course you have to put it in specific spots.  I'm just trying to play smart.
I been here for three years now.  I think I know where to capitalize and don't.  I just got to stay extra focused just because, you know.
Q. Last question is:  With music blasting on the 18th tee, what would be the most ideal music on Sunday that plays for you?
DANIELLE KANG:   I'm not sure.  I was trying to play Cole's song today but it turned off.  I know.  I don't know.  It depends.  Hopefully I get paired with one of my friends again and one of their songs could come up.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT