LPGA DRIVE ON CHAMPIONSHIP
August 1, 2020
Danielle Kang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Here with Danielle Kang, who is now tied for the lead going into the final day.  You've said before you love challenging golf courses.  How much did the weather add to the challenge of Inverness?
DANIELLE KANG:   I absolutely loved how the golf course changed shape.  Today was a complete different challenge than yesterday.  It was a different game.  It was different golf course.  I think everybody in the afternoon had to play through that, so I think they'll know what I'm -- what we all went through.
But it was just all of a sudden it's gotten cold, it was raining, everything is wet.  Yardages we have to adjustment, the green, softness, everything changed, so I liked how chameleon this golf course is.
Q. It got a little bumpy there on the back nine.
DANIELLE KANG:   It did.
Q. Take us through what happened and what was going through your mind to quickly rebound as you did?
DANIELLE KANG:   To be honest, I was a little bit rushing.  Yeah, there was a lot of things that I -- I don't know.  I just kind of lost focus a little bit there.  I just knew that we had to pick up pace, and that's what I was focused on.
And then caddie and I just kind of took a step back, and I knew that I had three holes left and all I had to do was give myself opportunities and kind of adjust to what the golf course was playing like, and I was finally able to trust it on the last three holes.
During the practice round and all that I drilled it in my brain to get the firmness and the run-outs and all that, but it was pretty cool actually how different it was.
Q. You were a little surprised when you took out your phone, because you said that you don't check your phone during the round, even though you can.
DANIELLE KANG:   Yeah, no, I don't.
Q. How were you surprised when you saw the cut line at +6?
DANIELLE KANG:   Yeah, I knew it was playing tough today, but it just -- it's playing really tough.  During the weather delay I talked to my coach, Butch Harmon, and he was saying, Hey, you're doing great.  Just keep it up.
I go, What are the scores at?  Because I felt like I was struggling.  I was kind of behind the field.  He's like, You're doing fine.
So after I made couple birdies.  I know I made some mistakes there, too.  But no matter how easy some shot may seem, I don't think it's playing as easy as I think.  It's just a bit frustrating.
However, I think tomorrow we're going to come -- I don't know if it's raining again tomorrow, but -- it's supposed to?
Q. Uh-huh.
DANIELLE KANG:   Okay.  Well, at least it'll be consistent from today.
But it was really interesting.  It was kind of cool of Inverness for it to flip like that in 24 hours.
Q. What hole were you put on the clock?  Do you remember?
DANIELLE KANG:   Was it on 8?  What hole were we put on the clock, 8 or 7?  Like 8th hole, 7th hole?
CADDIE:   Yeah.
DANIELLE KANG:   All the way up until 17.
Q. So how does that change your routine?
DANIELLE KANG:   Well, I think it differentiates per player.  Some caddies have their caddies run up.  Some players pick up pace.  For me, I try not to worry about it, but I can't help but worry about it.  I think I'm just a little out of practice being on the clock.
But that wasn't the reason why I was rushing.  I just kind of felt it was cold, it was windy, it was raining, grips were wet.  I needed to dry my hands.  Gloves wet; umbrella is over there; I don't know what the yardage.
All of a sudden it's going 30 yards shorter than yesterday.  So all that compacted was a bit overwhelming for a few holes.
Q. There was no easing back into the LPGA, was there?
DANIELLE KANG:   Oh, I love that they threw us on a major championship golf course here.  This golf course is -- I hope we come back for whatever reason, for whatever tournament.
It's a brilliant track.  I really enjoy it.
Q. On this type of day, being on the clock, the weather, the course, is it just a total mental challenge more than anything?
DANIELLE KANG:   No.  I think it's more kind of skill, because -- your caddie's skill and player as well -- how well you can function.  Because like caddies --  caddies are going through a lot during days like this.  They've got 30 things going on and they have to be super quick and efficient while the player -- they have to be attentive to the player with getting the numbers right.
There are a lot of the things getting thrown at you, but that's the beauty of tough weather conditions and tough golf courses.
Tried to manage it well.
Q. Many players are saying you just got to be happy with par on many holes.
DANIELLE KANG:   Yeah.
Q. Do you agree with that, and how difficult is that as player who wants to get as far under par as possible?
DANIELLE KANG:   Well, there is -- every hole is a birdie opportunity technically, but there are holes that if you walk away with a par it's good hole.  No. 7 is a great hole.  I bogeyed that hole today.  I had a mud ball.  But it's a great hole.  It's a dogleg left to right, back up the hill right to left, wind in off the left, hazard at right, short, rough left, up, and it's a narrow green.
Things like that you have to have great tee shot, great second shot, and you're probably going to miss the green sometimes if the greens are firm, and you have to have a good short game.  But I think that's what the golf course gives us, just the challenge.
Q. And what about your experience having the lead going into the final round?
DANIELLE KANG:   I think I'm definitely excited for tomorrow being in contention.  That's just always my goal, to give myself opportunities and give myself -- put myself in contention.  That's what we work on.  I got a great advice from Annika Sorenstam.  I spoke to her during my off-season.  I always call her and ask her if I can chat, and she gave me great advice on three-day events and what I can do to perform better in my career.
One of the things was just go out there and be aggressive and put on the gas, and that's what I did and shot 6-under yesterday.  It's definitely a benefit going into the weekend.
Q. When you're in this position, what kind of conversations will you have with Maverick?  He's in contention, too.
DANIELLE KANG:   Yeah, it's pretty cool, huh?
Q. Will you talk about it?
DANIELLE KANG:   Yeah, we talk about the best shots we hit, normally the best putt we made, the most unlucky shot we got.  We talk a lot of golf.
We just go, Baby, you would've loved this shot.  I hit this high cut over a tree.  We actually talk about that, so...
I go, Oh, my gosh, I hit the same shot today.  And then we start explaining what hole.  He actually 3D satellites on maps and looks at my entire golf course track, so it's kind of interesting.  I don't do that for his golf course.
But we do talk and I think it'll be really cool.  Hopefully he plays well today, and it'll be a really exciting Sunday for us.
Q. If you both won on the same Sunday, what would that be like, do you think?
DANIELLE KANG:   I have no idea.  I think we were leading at the same time yesterday for a little while.  That was really cool.  So we'll see.  We'll see what happens.
Q. Did you play in the rain at all in the break?
DANIELLE KANG:   No.  Solid 100 to 110 degree heat.  Dry.
Q. Quite the contrast.
DANIELLE KANG:   Yeah.  But thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT