LPGA DRIVE ON CHAMPIONSHIP
July 31, 2020
Danielle Kang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  Q. Here with the leader after the first round, Danielle Kang.  Yesterday you said it felt like you never really left an LPGA event.  I think you showed that today.  How are you feeling after the first round?
 DANIELLE KANG:   Bogey-free, 6-under.  I feel pretty good.  I didn't know I was in the lead until you just told me.  There aren't any leaderboards on the golf course.
 But everything felt pretty solid.  I practiced a lot about green speeds here.  I felt that Inverness was going to be tough on the greens and firm, and had some good speed ton today.
 Q. I remember you saying that the firmness and also the fairways were kind of going to be the make or break.
 DANIELLE KANG:   Uh-huh.
 Q. When did you realize you might have been on a hot streak?
 DANIELLE KANG:   What do you mean?  Today?
 Q. Yeah, today.
 DANIELLE KANG:   Honestly, there was no hot streak.  It was kind of consistent.  Few pars, birdie here; few pars, birdie there.  It was very spaced out birdies, to be honest.  I made definitely some good saves, good putts.
 Even if you hit a good shot, it's not an easy putt.  I almost 3-putted from like nine feet.  Definitely had really good attitude and it was really fun to be back.
 My caddie and I haven't worked together in six months, so it was fun to be out there.
 Q. Definitely some differences.  We're all standing here, didn't hear any roars or anything.  Did you take that into account as you were playing today?
 DANIELLE KANG:   No.  Honestly today was a bit quiet, but it's okay.  I just focused on my own game.  It is what it is.  I played a lot of golf at home without any galleries, so I think I'm kind of used to it.
 Yeah, so I think having some playing partners today -- actually, I was really aware of my etiquette, because normally when you play at home you just kind of step through people's lines, and that's what I was most aware about today.
 Q. What was the best part of your game today?
 DANIELLE KANG:   I would say I just didn't have any hiccups on any part of the game.  I definitely miss-hit some shots, miss-hit some putts, but I had some great iron shots, great tee shots, and great putts and chips.
 So any time one part of my game kind of gave he me a tough shot, I made it up with a good save.
 Q. Do you feel like they're going to set it up more difficult in the coming days?
 DANIELLE KANG:   Yeah, maybe.  I think the greens will dry up.  I'm hitting the ball really far out here.  The greens are a bit firm so one of the holes was 190 yards and I hit 7-iron hoping that it bounces and things like that.
 Yeah, I just think not having any holes your game will help out here.  It's a very championship golf course.
 Q. Is the like adrenaline and the feeling of walking off the green when you get a birdie, I mean, does it feel way different today compared to when you have fans cheering for you?
 DANIELLE KANG:   Yeah, I would definitely think it's calmer, more level headed.  Maybe that's good for me.  I don't know.  But I also really like the fans.  Can't really say here or there, but today was very mellow.  I'm pretty sure that's the fans not being around.  I also really love it when there are a lot of roars.
 Yeah, it was a good day.
 Q. Even though it was mellow, did you feel nerves on the first tee?
 DANIELLE KANG:   No.  I actually was really anxious to come out yesterday.  I was just really excited to sleep.
 Q. Does it feel any different at all standing over a putt that you kind of need to make when there is, I don't know, just so quiet and there is not people around?  Does it feel like any other tournament?
 DANIELLE KANG:   I haven't really thought about it.  Even if there are fans, they're usually really quiet when you're putting.  Only difference is you don't hear the applaud or the crowds after the ball goes in.  That's what my caddie is there for.  He claps for me and gives me fist bumps, so that's good.
 Q. Is he doing that more than usual because there is no crowd?
 DANIELLE KANG:   No.  I don't know.  I don't think so.  I think he was just trying to more stay out of my way more today.  He goes, It's my first week back.  He was just everywhere.  So it worked.
 Q. I know you said you didn't know you were in the lead until we just told you.  Is that different for you, not leaderboard watching, or are you one of those that just focus on your own game?
 DANIELLE KANG:   I'm a leaderboard watcher, so that's a bit different, not knowing where the leaders are standing.  I know we can check our apps and phones and stuff.
 Q. Oh, you can?
 DANIELLE KANG:   I believe you can, but my phone is usually off when I play.  So I guess there is positives and negatives to both.  I just try and take the positives.  If there is no leaderboard, I'll focus on my game.  If there is a leaderboard, I know where I stand.
 Q. If you're near the top on Sunday, will you look or not?
 DANIELLE KANG:   No.  I don't really touch my phone on the golf course.  It's kind of my rule.  That's why I never respond.  Usually at night.
 So, no, I wouldn't do it.  I have enough things to worry about on the golf course.
 Q. Maybe your caddie will look at his phone.
 DANIELLE KANG:   I doubt it.  He leaves it off, too.  Because we get text messages and things like that.  You're just tempted to do, you know -- I'm pretty sure you can text rules officials and you can do that.
 But, no, it's better off.  Yeah, it is what it is.  Just go with the flow.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT