BMW LADIES CHAMPIONSHIP
October 25, 2019
Danielle Kang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Another 5-under 67. What's gotten into you over the last week, and now two 67s here. You're playing lights-out right now. How are you playing?
DANIELLE KANG: Playing good. Lots of birdies. I'm hitting it well. Hitting it straight. Chipping well. Putting well. So honestly, I'm really not paying attention to other people. I think that's one of the things that I've gotten better at. I have not looked at the leaderboard once. I know that people already know that I'm a leaderboard watcher, but I really am caring less what people are doing in my group, what they are shooting. So I'm just worried about my own game and sticking to my own game plan, but it's hard to do.
Q. It is hard to do. Are you having to think about doing it? Like you said, you are a leaderboard watcher?
DANIELLE KANG: Yes, definitely, I made a 3-putt bogey on 10 and a couple -- both girls birdied and I even said, that was a two-shot hole. I thought to myself, not really, so much golf left, I don't even know why I'm worrying about something that's not in my control, so that's something I'm really working on, staying positive, having fun, having a blast. I mis-hit it. I'm actually pretty okay with all the misses. It's okay. I look at it as an opportunity to make an up-and-down or have a good chip and things like that.
Q. It's clearly working. I'll let you know right now. You have a two-stroke lead on the field. We have one group left behind you. So you have to feel comfortable and in a good place heading into the weekend?
DANIELLE KANG: Yeah, I guess so. I didn't know that.
Q. What's the game plan now for tonight heading into the weekend?
DANIELLE KANG: Not much. I'm going to try and see what my mom wants to eat. I have a mommy and me date tonight. I know, we have a lot of mommy and me dates. Tonight is another one, so we are going to decide what we want to eat. I ate blowfish last night, so we'll see what I want to eat today.
Q. I've seen some players out there eating the live octopus?
DANIELLE KANG: My food will be cooked. Those are actually really good, though.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT