CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 24, 2019
Danielle Kang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You were 7 back to begin the day. What was your thought process?  
DANIELLE KANG: Thought process was give everything I've got out there and see what happens. It's never over until it's over, right?   
 Q.  So when you look around and you're playing that well and the scores are going so low for you on your card, how do you stay within yourself and not look ahead to see what exactly you could post?  
DANIELLE KANG: I honestly didn't look that far ahead. I just kept trying to make birdies. Putter kind of got cold after nine holes. I gave myself a lot opportunities on the back nine and they just didn't drop. But I had a really good attitude about it.   
17th hole I was walking down the fairway and I said, You know what? I have a right to be a little bit annoyed. Best thing I can do is hit this close and give myself a chance.   
 Q.  You said to me after that second shot here at 18 it's very difficult coming down the stretch.  
DANIELLE KANG: Yeah.   
 Q.  What do they have to look forward to?  
DANIELLE KANG: To be honest, I don't know. Everybody hits it differently, and for me it's -- I have a 4-iron in; 197 yards to the pin for me. So I had an amazing 4-iron. Gave myself a good birdie chance, and so I'm proud of that.   
Yeah, see what happens when they come down the stretch.   
 Q.  We just saw Charley's birdie go in. Outstanding day for you as well. Take us through the final round here.  
DANIELLE KANG: Honestly I started off pretty far back. I just kind of made a charge in the beginning, and I knew that I had a chance as long as I had -- the first few holes are tough, so as long as I shaved off a couple of shots starting off, I think I had a chance.   
I think I did a pretty good job. My putter got a little bit cold on the back nine; it was a great eagle on 17. At the end of the day, I gave myself a lot of opportunities and I think that's what I'm mostly proud of.   
 Q.  Take us through the eagle just in general. Kind of a momentum shifter for you.  
DANIELLE KANG: Not really a momentum shifter. I think it was more so like I had an opportunity to be able to hit it on in two and I haven't had that this entire week.   
So I had a full 3-wood and just ripped at it.   
 Q.  Just an outstanding week for you and women's golf in general. Another consistent round for you. Just overall, your season, a win at the Buick LPGA Shanghai. What's it been like for you now that the season has come to a close?  
DANIELLE KANG: Well, LPGA has come to a close, but I have one more event left. I'm playing the Inbee Park Invitational, so I can't think that my season is over yet. I don't get to go home for a couple weeks.   
 Q.  Any big plans for the off-season?  
DANIELLE KANG: Not yet. I have an outing as well, a couple outings I have left, so just taking it day by day. I definitely am proud of how I played. I'm playing very consistent. I gave myself a chance again, so made a lot mistakes, but also made some great shots.   
Just got to be proud.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT