BMW LADIES CHAMPIONSHIP
October 26, 2019
Danielle Kang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  1-under 71, up-and-down kind of day, but you fought back from a bunch of early bogeys. What was going through your mind early?  
DANIELLE KANG: To be honest with you, the wind switched. It wasn't the same as the last couple days and we just had trouble for some reason figuring out what the wind was and we miss clubbed a lot starting on hole 1 and tried to save some shots back and forth. Yeah, I left a lot out there today.   
 Q.  What do you take from just the day in general, because you were able to fight back and ended up under par for the day?  
DANIELLE KANG: To be honest it was a very frustrating round today. I hit the wrong number twice. It was just -- I don't know, every mistake you could possibly think of, we made it. I don't know, but I was proud that we were able to capitalize on certain holes and make some birdies coming in. I know that finishing in the red numbers was important. There was a lot of birdies out there today and I knew. I didn't see much of the leaderboard, but I knew people were going low, so I was kind of frustrated.   
 Q.  You came off with a smile on your face, learn from today and move that to tomorrow?  
DANIELLE KANG: Yeah, definitely. It's just golf. Sometimes you don't play well and I still shot under par. So it's okay. It's not exactly the round I envisioned, but I made the best of it and made some great up-and-downs, great saves coming in, and I hit some good shots. So it's okay. I've got another full 18 holes tomorrow.   
 Q.  You do have another 18 holes, a couple strokes behind and it looks like going to be in the next to last group. What's the game plan chasing for your second straight win?  
DANIELLE KANG: I'm going to go pretty aggressive tomorrow, and I need to get that wind down, that wind direction down. Yeah, just stay aggressive. I left a lot of putts short today, so making sure that I stick to my game plan and trust my shots.   
 Q.  You said you made some good up-and-downs. Where did you make those at?  
DANIELLE KANG: I made a really good up-and-down on 16. Made a good up-and-down on 8.   
 Q.  Those bunkers off the green?  
DANIELLE KANG: Just off the green. I had a good shot. Just wrong wind, and ended up 17 yards short or 22 yards because I pace out my wedges and chip shots. It's just that's a completely wrong club and I -- I don't like being miss clubbed more than once a round but it happens. But those were really, really good chips because I short-sided myself a lot today. I gave myself a really good opportunity to make a putt on 2 and I short-sided myself on 1 and 2. It was just a little -- it was a little bit rough. I constantly had to make those 6- , 7-footers all day for par, and once in a while you're going to miss them and those were the bogeys.   
 Q.  You're going to be chasing a couple strokes. You're about two strokes back. You were chasing last week, chasing before that in Shanghai. Do you play well coming from behind or would you prefer to be in front?  
DANIELLE KANG: Either way. I enjoy being in contention and having the opportunity to win. Tomorrow I know that there's going to be a lot of birdies out there. We've played this golf course, I don't know, what, four or five times by now, so I'm hoping that I stick to my game plan and just pick the right numbers. Today was rough. It's okay, though. It happens. It's golf.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT