BMW LADIES CHAMPIONSHIP
October 25, 2019
Danielle Kang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: We have with us Danielle Kang, who just finished a 5-under 67 and leads the tournament at 10-under. You have to be very proud of the way you're playing off your win last week and now two 5-unders. How do you feel right now.   
DANIELLE KANG: I feel pretty good. I feel really comfortable about my game. Putting aside the position where I'm at, I'm having a lot of fun out there. I'm improving on the things I'm working on, so I'm happy.   
THE MODERATOR: You say you're improving on what you're working on. What are you working on?   
DANIELLE KANG: Well, we always want to putt better and chip better and basically all that, having a better attitude, and being able to manage the golf course a little bit better. Butch and I have been working on scoring a lot. This scores seems to be a little bit lower, which I'm happy about, lots of birdies..   
 Q.  Why do you play well when you come to Asia?  
DANIELLE KANG: Every time I come to Asia, I eat well, I communicate well, but I communicate well in English, so -- I play well.   
 Q.  This is towards the end of the season and it seems your shots and your game is more shot. Is there motivation or something behind you doing so well towards the end of the season?  
DANIELLE KANG: In the end of the season, the beginning of the season, the middle of the season, my performance varies. I think it's impossible to do well all year long for me, so I try to focus and plan my strategy around that.   
 Q.  You've played two rounds here in Busan. Can you give us an impression of the gallery here?  
DANIELLE KANG: I think that the people in Busan have been very nice, so I'm very grateful for that, and they are rooting for me, so what's not to like. Everybody recognizes me and they are rooting for me, so that's nice.   
To be honest, I haven't been going out because some places going out remind me of my dad, so staying with my mom and my friends.   
Hana I've known for 13 or 14 years in the States, but whenever we are in Korea, we live on different schedules, so she is an early bird and I am not. I tend to sleep in late. We don't really get that much time together, but when we do, we good shopping or we go get some ice cream. But this week, we haven't been able to really see each other. I think we talked briefly, but we text each other all the time. She just told me that she doesn't want me to FaceTime her at 3:00 a.m. in the morning.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT