BUICK LPGA SHANGHAI
October 18, 2019
Danielle Kang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Here with Danielle Kang, defending champion, who comes off a second round 67. You had a pretty awesome eagle at No. 9. Tell us about that hole and what happened there.
DANIELLE KANG: Well, I'm not hitting my driver very far this week, so I can't really reach the par-5s in two like I normally am doing.
So I hit it, and obviously I'm 20, 30 behind the girls. Had about 250 in and I said, Going to hit a 3-wood. If it bounces on, it bounces on. Left a 30 yard little pitch left. He actually walked up and said, Ah, this is your specialty. I said, Yeah, it is, and then I chipped in.
So we're just taking the positives out of what I'm not used to with my game, but it's okay. It was a really cool eagle.
Q. It was. Pajaree also eagled and Brooke birdied the hole. It was quite a hole for your whole group.
DANIELLE KANG: Yeah, I told Brooke, I said, 5-under for the group is pretty good. She said, Yeah, not bad. Sorry to let you guys down.
But I let them down when she made a hole-in-one. I par'd.
Q. Someone has got do it. It's not every day.
DANIELLE KANG: Yeah.
Q. You said you're working on the different stuff. What are you focusing on in your game now this week?
DANIELLE KANG: Did I say I was working on different stuff?
Q. You said were you were maybe focusing on things that don't always work for you.
DANIELLE KANG: Oh, no. It's just game plan, right? I'm normally going up there, let's say, hitting it further than I normally do. Like on 17 I hit my normal distance drive and it went in the bunker, but I didn't expect it to go normal 260.
So it's kind of things like that I'm trying adjust to it. It's okay. I guess sometimes you just have to capitalize on what you have and utilize what you've got. That's what I'm doing.
Q. You did that this year and certainly did that last year when you took home the victory here. What are you looking back to, are you looking book to 2018 to rely on as you move ahead to 2019?
DANIELLE KANG: Yes, I definitely know that birdies are out there and it's a pretty tough golf course. It's not easy to shoot low. There were a lot good scores out there today and I know how well these girls can play, so I just got to keep chipping away and keep on trying to make those birdies and see what happens at the end.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT