BUICK LPGA SHANGHAI
October 20, 2019
Danielle Kang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  It's been a closely-fought contest between two of the very best in the game. Only one could emerge victorious. Like to welcome you to the prize presentation. A pleasure to welcome Mr. Goud, marketing director of Buick, and our successfully defending champion, Danielle Kang in 2019.  
 Danielle, happy birthday. How is it going so far?   
DANIELLE KANG: It's going great. It was a really stressful day. I definitely played well out there. It was really tough because you're definitely watching what Jessica is shooting and scoring, and always just try to keep in my own game.   
There were a lot of birdie opportunities. I made some really great up and downs. I've never been more nervous than the last putt for some reason, but I made it.   
 Q.  Yeah, there was a little bit of work in that last putt, but it was so close throughout. You broke away with that fantastic birdie on the 15th to give yourself that two-shot buffer. Did you breathe a sigh of relief then?  
DANIELLE KANG: No, I didn't. I know how great of a player Jessica is. She hits I knew that there was a par-3 coming up that wasn't easy and also a reachable par-5.   
Jess hits it way further than I do, so I knew that I had to capitalize on that hole. It definitely wasn't a breather. If I made that putt on 16 then maybe, but I knew that she also had an opportunity. You never know. Plus, 18 is also a birdieable hole.   
 Q.  Tough closing holes down the stretch. Your ability to stay so positive was fantastic. How did you do that? How did you keep on having that great chat with yourself, Olly, who was giving you so much good communication and telling you to stay positive, stay focused, be aggressive?  
DANIELLE KANG: One of the main things I work on is to be positive. My brother told me few years back to tell myself a lot positive things you do on the golf course so I don't get dwell on all the negatives that happen sometimes.   
I don't know, it's something that I'm working on, something that I got reminded of, and it's just -- yeah.   
 Q.  And your short game was incredible.  
DANIELLE KANG: It was. (Laughter.) Yeah.   
 Q.  Did you impress yourself?  
DANIELLE KANG: I started challenging Olly at one point saying, Oh, watch, I got this one. He goes, Middle of the green is okay. I hit it -- short-sided myself I think five holes in a row. It was a bit of a challenge, but I definitely trusted my short game.   
I went home last week, flew all the way back from Korea and worked on my short game with my brother, and I've been working on my short game with Maverick. My mom told me I needed my chipping to get better, and it's definitely better.   
 Q.  Always listen to your mom. Your mom, Grace is here this week. What a way to do it in style and win here. Tremendous championship, one you're very fond of clearly winning it back to back.  
DANIELLE KANG: Yeah, that's got a nice ring to it, back to back. I've done that in the U.S. Am and did it again. It's really cool to defend, so I'm really excited.   
 Q.  Can we ask Stephanie to present you -- look at this cake. It's got a cape on it. You were superwoman out there today.  
DANIELLE KANG: Thank you. I love it. (Applause.) I like the golf holes and everything.   
 Q.  We won't let you eat it just yet. Pass it pack to Stephanie. You will be able to have a slice in a minute. If I can please ask Mr. Goud from Buick to present the magnificent trophy to our champion in 2019. Let's hear it for the Buick LPGA Shanghai champion, Danielle Kang.  
 (Applause.)   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT