BUICK LPGA SHANGHAI
October 15, 2019
Danielle Kang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So back to the site of a win. Got to feel good to come back to a place where you're the winner. How are you feeling as we start the week?  
DANIELLE KANG: I feel really great actually. I took a week off last week. It's been a crazy travel schedule, but body kind of doesn't know what country I'm in or I don't really know what jet lag is at this point.   
But I feel really good. Been working on my game. That's the whole reason I went home. I got some great practice in with my brother, and that's actually the best practices I usually get in.   
 Q.  Really?  
DANIELLE KANG: Yeah.   
 Q.  Does he work with specific stuff with you? Do you have a routine?  
DANIELLE KANG: No. Just playing with him and like you learn different things from each other. He knows my game better than most. He knows if I'm doing anything out of the ordinary. I don't know. I just have fun playing and practicing with him as well, so...   
 Q.  Looking back to the win last year, what are some of the moments from here that stand out most in your mind?  
DANIELLE KANG: Coming back and playing the practice round yesterday actually showed me a lot that I was in a complete different mindset last year, as in being comfortable and being uncomfortable and things like that.   
So I feel much more comfortable this year with the way I see the golf course and the way I see my shots. I'm actually happy about that.   
 Q.  Do you think that was coming to a new place last year? What was the difference?  
DANIELLE KANG: There was a lot of things going on last year if you guys go back to it. It wasn't because of this event. Just leading up a lot of things with my swings and stuff.   
 Q.  Feel in a good place now?  
DANIELLE KANG: Yeah. Last year's win I mentioned that it was a mental breakthrough and things like that. Obviously I kind of -- a lot of things came back to me and I remember a lot of certain shots I hit. 16th hotel I hit a really great shot on the par 3.   
17th hole chip shot stands out to me. Made a great birdie. It was a really tough shot and made really great up and down.   
18th hole that putt was really hard. I putted it again is and it was still hard, so proud that I two-putted. That almost made it actually. Little things that pop up here and there. Yeah, very confident about the golf course and the way I'm playing.   
 Q.  We're getting close to the end of the year. You've got to be feeling that break coming up soon. How do you continue to push through that knowing you still got a couple weeks left in the year?  
DANIELLE KANG: I actually don't really have that much of a break.   
 Q.  Okay.  
DANIELLE KANG: Technically we have this week, I have BMW. I have three weeks off, but that's -- I took it off because we really don't have a break, so I'm using that as -- I like practicing and I want to get my game better, so utilizing that time so I can be ready for CME Championship.   
I am also playing Inbee Park Invitational after that in Korea, and then I have an outing and then I have technically a week off before the holidays, which is two weeks.   
And then we have the third week off and the fourth week off - air quotations on off - and the Tournament of Champions is second week of January. So I know the schedule is not out, but it's beginning of January.   
 Q.  It is.  
DANIELLE KANG: Yeah. So I don't really see it is an off. I don't really have much of an off-season coming up, so I kind of like to pace myself. I don't know. I think just planning out your schedule, where you're going to be and how you'll prepare your game, I don't really put my clubs away ever. I just need to put the work in so I can play the way I want to play.   
Hence going home last week was a good thing, and the next -- after BMW three weeks off will be a really good momentum into the next year as well.   
 Q.  What do you work on when you practice? Are you working on something specifically? Just keeping your game tuned?  
DANIELLE KANG: A lot of different things actually. I like to feel a certain thing, so if I can do it in practice I can do it in tournaments. In order to engrave that feel it's repetition and doing it over and over again.   
At tournament sites it's very hard to do since you don't have that much time and plus you have to map out the course, map out the conditions, and the traveling and all that. So when you're at home in your routine, like the workouts and the practicing and all of that.   
So I think being able to get in tune with your own feel for me is the most important, whether it's short game to bunkers shots to wedge shots and irons and drivers, all of it.   
So it's grinding in the field so I can do it at tournaments.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT