AIG WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
August 1, 2019
Danielle Kang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What is it about majors that brings out the best in you?  A fifth and a sixth already this year.  
DANIELLE KANG: I like the challenges of the golf course.  I did miss a couple cuts at a couple majors, but I don't know, I'm just kind of an all-or-nothing type of player.  I like that it challenges every part of your game, your ball-striking, your chipping around the green and putting speed.  So very excited that Woburn was absolutely in tremendous shape, and it's a lot of fun to play.   
 Q.  Being a parkland-style course, much like you play week in and week out on the LPGA Tour, do you feel like that fits your game a little better?  
DANIELLE KANG: Yeah, it fits my game way better.  I feel like my track record on links golf, it's not very good.  I like if I have to hit 165, it goes 165 instead of hitting in one place and ending up another.  I'm enjoying Woburn golf course out there a lot.   
 Q.  I asked your caddie what you did well.  He said, it's not what she did well, it's she didn't do anything wrong.  Everything was a good number.  
DANIELLE KANG: Oh, that's good.  Oh, he said something nice.   
 Q.  He said it was an uneventful but easy 66.  Is that a product of your current form?  
DANIELLE KANG: Yes.  Easy golf is the best golf, right?  No stress.  You get a number, you see the shot, you go and hit it.  Same thing with putting.  I know I left a few short out there, but I kept trusting my speed, I see the line, and you just go up and trust your execution.   
 Q.  Great start to the week.  You looked very comfortable out there on the course today.  
DANIELLE KANG: It was very comfortable.  It was an easy golf day.  That's my favourite type of golf.  You see the shot, you hit it, you see the line, you kind of putt it, and sometimes I left it short, sometimes I didn't make it, but you just kind of have to trust in the work that I've done, and it was okay.   
 Q.  It's not perhaps been your favourite major in the past, but this golf course not quite as linksey as previous years.  Are you looking at this as a real opportunity to go out and get this title?  
DANIELLE KANG: To be honest, yes.  I don't remember playing -- I remember the rounds that I did in 2016.  I know we're back in three years, but I truly love this golf course.  I like the inland course, I like the trees, and you're right, I'm not very good at links, yet --   
 Q.  I like the yet.  
DANIELLE KANG: And I'm trying to take advantage of the British Open, and I love coming here and playing in Europe.  Yeah, trying to capitalise on what I can this week.   
 Q.  It has been a very busy schedule over the last couple of weeks, back-to-back majors.  How are you feeling coming into this because it's a couple of really intense weeks.  
DANIELLE KANG: Yeah, it is.  I don't know why my throat has just kind of gone.  But they've got some good tea -- I'm in England, I'm going to get some tea.  Like I was saying earlier, there might have been a little bit of a blessing in disguise that I missed the cut last week because I came here on Saturday actually and I got a lot of rest, I played a few rounds, and I like to be prepared, and I think I did that well.  I'm just excited to be out here and prepared.  I like being prepared in a proper way and competing in a proper way.  I'm kind of just looking at it as a little bit of a roll from Saturday and not looking at last week as a loss.   
 Q.  It's all about building on this start the rest of the week?  
DANIELLE KANG: Yeah, I'm just going to keep sticking to my game plan.  I am a very aggressive player, and the fact that these greens are very receptive is a plus for me, so I'm trusting my speed, trusting my swing, and trusting the execution.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT