KIA CLASSIC
March 31, 2019
Danielle Kang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Solid finish.  You said you were hitting phenomenal yesterday.  
DANIELLE KANG: Uh-huh.   
 Q.  Were you hitting it any different today?  What did it feel like?  
DANIELLE KANG: I hit the ball really well today as well.  I think it's the mindset of having a lot of confidence over the ball, over the shots.   
I'm putting really well.  Like I said, it's poa.  Sometimes it bounces, sometimes it doesn't.  I learned a lot of patience and I was just trying to stay patient all day.   
I made mistakes definitely, but I saved a few.  Yeah, it was good round.  I was coming in 8-under, bogey-free.  Last hole, I mean, it was 180 to the pin.  I even clubbed down and it still went long.   
It is what it is.  That was a good roll and I gave it everything I've got.  I was watching the leaderboard all day.   
 Q.  Does that help you, watching the leaderboard?  
DANIELLE KANG: Yes, it does.  Anyone will tell you I like attention, so I kind of like feeding off what's going on.  When I'm watching whoever it is on the leaderboard, whether it was Nasa making birdies and I know that I needed to keep pushing more and more.  So it motivates me even more.   
I like watching the leaderboard.   
 Q.  Would you have in as a club on 18?  
DANIELLE KANG: It was 180 yards to the pin.  I hit a 6-iron.  Yeah, it went a little long, even out of the rough.  It was 147 to the front, so I was trying to pitch (indiscernible) high 157 or something, around 160, but it flew 175 so, okay.   
That was the one miss you couldn't have because of the pin placement.  Very tough.  I misjudged the speed on the chip shot.  I think so did Chella.  She said, How slow was that chip?  I went...   
You're chipping into the hill.  It's very deceiving.  But it's tough hole, so that's the beauty of it.   
 Q.  You had to love the drive on 16, right?  Is that where you wanted to hit it?  
DANIELLE KANG: Yeah, I hit it two feet yesterday for eagle, so whatever I did today was a little disappointing than yesterday.  But I putted well; I read the putt well.  My 15th hole too I hit it close and missed it.   
16 just kept reading it but just wasn't quite breaking.  Yeah, but it was fun.   
 Q.  Any other close calls on birdies today besides 15?  Any shorter ones?  
DANIELLE KANG: I had a lot of shorter ones yesterday, but I can't really necessarily say I had a birdie opportunity and didn't capitalize on it.  There was an 8 foot par putt that I made that kept the momentum going, and I wish that I -- there are putts where I'm not actually putting to maybe, it even if I'm six feet away.   
I'm just trying to hit it close.  It's realistic.  These greens are so fast.  They're rolling really quickly.  I love poa, so I just know just get it there and then hopefully that hits the hole.   
But speed is everything for me, and my speed control was great.   
 Q.  Have you played with Nasa much before?  
DANIELLE KANG: She was my younger sister on tour, my little sister.  I haven't played with her that much but I've played with her enough.  She's a really, really solid player; very good ball-striker.  She's fearless.  That's kind of the world that comes to my mind when I see her.  Little warrior.  She just charges.  She swings hard.  She putts with confidence.   
I don't know what she's at right now, but I just saw she was at 18 again.   
Yeah.   
 Q.  What was she like personality-wise?  
DANIELLE KANG: She is a cutie, a sweetheart.   
 Q.  Winner of the birdie bet.  
DANIELLE KANG: He has to take me to the movies, How to Train Your Dragon.  Yeah, we don't have a big bet.  I need dinner and I get a movie.   
 Q.  Date night pretty much.  
DANIELLE KANG: Yeah, but it's nonnegotiable date night.  It's what I want.  Not that it's already not what I want, but sometimes get too busy, sometimes not.  The best part is that I won.  It bothers him so much that I'm so happy.   
 Q.  Don't like to lose.  
DANIELLE KANG: Oh, he hates to lose.  I love it.  I even talked to him this morning.  I go, By the way I automatically won.  Just I was so happy.  I'm sorry you played bad, but...   
 Q.  Shove it in your face.  
DANIELLE KANG: Yes, I get a full on movie night, dinner, and yes.  He's my chauffeur.  It's great.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT