BUICK LPGA SHANGHAI
October 20, 2018
Danielle Kang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How was your cake this morning?
DANIELLE KANG: My cake was delicious.  I told them to save me a slice, so I'm going to eat some cake now.  I love IMG.  They know me so well.  Bring chocolate on chocolate on chocolate.  I only had a couple bites because I didn't want to have a sugar high today.
Q. Just kind of up and down today?
DANIELLE KANG: Oh, my gosh.  Today was rough.  I don't think honestly -- well, Sei Young had a very hot start, but of all of us just kind of nothing was just -- couldn't just get the thing rolling.  Our group just had a little bit of a struggle today.
I turned the round into an under-par round, so really happy about that.  It was rough.  Not going to lie.  It was really rough.  I started feeling the yips again and then I started blasting it 30 yards right and tried to hook it back in the fairway a couple times and then my putts weren't dropping.  It was frustrating, but it's okay.
When you have those days you have to be able to keep it in play, and that's what I did.  Proud.
Q. You feel that sometimes, when like everyone in the group is kind of a little bit off?
DANIELLE KANG: Yeah, I could feel that.  I mean, like I said, sometimes you just have a really hot start but it's just -- just all of us were kind of hitting a wall every time we wanted to get something going, and then we would all fall into trouble or the wind would pick up.
I don't know what it was.  Just our momentum.  Couldn't ride the momentum in any case today, I don't think.
Q. Proud of yourself for sticking through it all?
DANIELLE KANG: I'm really proud that I ended up in a red number.  That was my goal for today.  I told my caddie, Listen, it's not really working well.  I don't know what's going on.  He was telling me, Each shot is a new hole, but my main goal was to shoot under par.  I don't care if it was one or three or whatever.
There were times I would have a wedge in my hand and I was trying to hit it on the green because you just don't feel good.  But it's all good.  I kept myself in play.  I think that was most important.
Q. Birthday plans?
DANIELLE KANG: Not really.  Actually just going to have a quiet dinner with my mom and a friend.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT