BUICK LPGA SHANGHAI
October 19, 2018
Danielle Kang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Same story for you, same thing as yesterday pretty much?
DANIELLE KANG: What was the story?
Q. Plugging away, not thinking too much.
DANIELLE KANG: Yeah, yeah, I guess so.  I talked to Butch last night, talked to my coach last night.  He said, Just be patient, trust my game, and that's what I'm doing.
I like playing with Sei Young and Ariya.  They're playing well as well and it's just fun.  Yeah, I mean, not much to it.  Birdies come and hitting fairways and greens.  Excited.
Q. You and Butch get the chance to talk pretty often?
DANIELLE KANG: Yeah, he messages almost after every round.  Just talking about what were your swing thoughts today?  More so for him he tells me to trust my game.  Nothing mechanical we're talking about.  But if I'm uncomfortable -- like last week it was kind of funny.  I told hmm I couldn't hit my 3-wood.  He said, Don't hit it then.  You have 13 other clubs in the bag.
So if I look at my caddie and I say I'm not feeling it, then I don't hit it.  Yeah, we're just going off feel.  Even on 17 we didn't really want to go for it.  Just laid up and still made birdie.
Q. So you guys have established a really good rapport already.  Have you known him for very long?
DANIELLE KANG: No.  Well, Dustin introduced me to Butch.  It's been going really well though.  I just feel really confident in how he can help me, and I feel that my game is getting more consistent.
Yeah, I'm just excited.  I like being -- I mean, everyone knows me.  I like attention.  I like being in the final group.  I like having crowds.  So it's fun.
At the end of the day, you just enjoy.  You work hard to be in the final groups and work hard to be in the hunt and be the leader and chasing the leaders.
That's why we play.
Q. How about you and Ollie?  Seems like you guys have fun together.
DANIELLE KANG: I have a blast with Ollie.  Ollie helps a lot.  He knows how to emotionally keep me stable and doesn't get me too -- when I get too excited he knows how to keep me steady and knows -- I mean, he just tells me what he's thinking.  That's what I was searching for in a caddie.
I know he's been on my bag just this year, but I like that he speaks his honest opinion.  If he doesn't like something he just says, Yeah, I don't like it.
But at the end of the day, it's my choice and he knows that.  So I just -- it's great, because if he doesn't like it and I go, I like it...  I mean, at the end of the day I just...
He gets vetoes once in a while where's he's like, You're not doing this.  So we have that kind of thing going on because I just ignore him.  He goes, D, you got to go right of the pin.  Okay, and I go right at it.  He goes, Veto.  You're not hitting a 7.  I go, All right, fine.
Yeah, we have a very good dynamic and he works really hard and he knows my game pretty well.  I mean, my game varies, too.  I don't have a stock yardage on my irons, and he actually kind of gets feels for that now.  He's like, I need to you rip a 7-iron.  Give it extra 15 yards.  I need you to do that.  I go, Oh, okay.  Well, I have the 6-iron.  No, no.  I need you to give that extra.  Or if it's shorter club, I mean, it's 130, Do you have that soft 7?
I mean, he knows.
Q. He knows your game.
DANIELLE KANG: Exactly.  So just being honest in what he's thinking really, really helps.
Q. How many vetoes do you give him?
DANIELLE KANG: He only gets five a year, but now three a week because I do a lot of stupid stuff.  I do so many stupid decisions that I give him three a week.  He hasn't used it once last week.
Q. Saving them up.  Do they carry over?
DANIELLE KANG: No.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT