DIAMOND RESORTS TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 17, 2019
Danielle Kang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Do you think anyone had more fun with their celebrity partners than you today?  
DANIELLE KANG: I'm not really sure, but I had a blast today.  I know that it's still a tournament and I'm still trying to focus.  So I told my caddie Ollie today that, hey, just remind me to focus for at least a minute before my shot.  But I just wanted to have fun.  It's just a little bit different type of tournament we're playing.  I absolutely had a blast.  These guys were amazing.   
 Q.  It wasn't the finish you wanted on 18, but you still had a really good day.  
DANIELLE KANG: Yeah, I forgot the number on the tee box, and I don't know what I was doing.  I just hit it.  I usually wouldn't -- I mean, it kind of takes you out of your routine and all that.  It's okay.  Sometimes you've got to roll with the punches.  This type of tournament, you've got to have fun, and it's more the environment, and that's what I was enjoying.   
I mean, I hit a great chip shot but missed the putt.  These greens are rolling beautifully, and they're so fast, and they break a lot.  I just made a mistake.  That's all it was.   
 Q.  But your day overall was pretty good?  
DANIELLE KANG: Oh, yeah.  Honestly, usually if you ask me, I'm super intense after a round.  I'm thinking about every shot I hit.  I can't remember half the shots I hit today.  Lee was singing while I was hitting.  He was singing Rumor and I Don't Dance.  I was trying to get Cole to sing, but he kept getting bright red and running away.  I said, it's your job to sing, so get back here and sing.  It was good.   
They were calling me over to look at their swing or checking out their lines and all that.  But it doesn't happen in professional golf usually.  Competitors are not going to say, hey, can you come check this out?  You just rush over, and Ollie goes, where are you going?  I go, check out Lee's ball.  But it was a lot of fun.   
 Q.  Would it favor a certain personality because of all that or take a certain temperament to win here?  
DANIELLE KANG: I think it depends how you play.  Some people might just play very intense, the way they normally do.  Some people might just play their own game, like however they want to approach the tournament is different for everyone.  For me, I just -- I like to have fun, and I'm really thankful for Diamond Resorts for hosting this kind of event.  It's different.  It's not just the 150 or 144 players playing, intense threesomes and all that.  You're meeting people.  It's, I don't know, more of just enjoying the game, and that's what I'm doing today.   
There are crowds out here, and I want the people, the celebrities that took their time to come out and have fun and enjoy playing here as well because without them we can't have this tournament, as much as we can't have a tournament without the fans or the sponsors.   
I know how to play -- it's a different type of golf game.  I try to adjust to what this environment gives me.  Today was a little bit wilder than normal, and I liked it.  It's a solid 68, I would say.   
 Q.  Are you a country music fan?  
DANIELLE KANG: You know, it's neither here nor there.  I'm not a big country fan, actually.   
 Q.  Did you listen to some of their songs before you played?  
DANIELLE KANG: No, I did.  I had my friend send me songs.  I've got some friends that have a lot of country music fans.  Yeah, one of my closest friends loves to send me what he likes and all that.   
 Q.  We won't see you in cowboy boots any time soon, though?  
DANIELLE KANG: Is this live?   
 Q.  I turned it off.  
DANIELLE KANG: Is it off?  I don't know if I should tell, but I don't know how to tell you.  I'm dating a golfer, and his favorite two artists are those two.   
 Q.  Really?  So he's jealous?  
DANIELLE KANG: No, he's the one that sends me all the country songs.   
 Q.  But, I mean, is he jealous of you today getting to play with them?  
DANIELLE KANG: He is.  I sent him a video.  It's cool.   
 Q.  Are you dating a famous golfer that we would know?  
DANIELLE KANG: You guys would know him.  He was miked up for 18 holes in the Bahamas the other day.   
 Q.  Really?  How long has that been going on?  
DANIELLE KANG: Anyway, Maverick sends whatever.  Maverick sends me the songs.  He's a big country fan.  He sends me a lot of country music.  That's all I know.  I was trying to get around it.  Don't say that on the interview.  Should I just say it?  So, yes, I'm not a big country fan, but my boyfriend is.   
 Q.  Are we allowed to write that or no?  
DANIELLE KANG: Sure.  You can just say -- eventually --   
 Q.  So don't write Maverick, is that what you're saying?  
DANIELLE KANG: You can write Maverick.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT