LPGA KEB HANABANK CHAMPIONSHIP
October 11, 2018
Danielle Kang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Windy and cold.  How do you put up a number like that?
DANIELLE KANG: I actually really like tough conditions.  Honestly, people keep asking me if, oh, are you ready to play this week?  I keep telling them, I'm really happy.  I've practiced everything that I could have practiced and I'm ready to play, and whatever happens, happens, and I came out this week.  Whatever the conditions are -- I actually like wind.
Q. Is the ball flight just that you hit it solid, that helps you in the wind?
DANIELLE KANG: Yeah, I think it's more feel I have an advantage of maybe.  Sometimes you try to play a 20-yard wind, 25-yard wind, I base it off whatever I want to.  If it's 113 yards and I want to hit a 7-iron, I just have to convince my caddie that I'm going to do it.
Yeah, just had a lot of fun out there today.
Q. What were some of the highlights of the round?
DANIELLE KANG: I think I've been practicing a lot of my short game, and I think when I mis-hit a shot and gave myself up-and-down opportunity for par, I made those saves, and I think that was kind of the highlights.
And whenever I had it -- my brother told me this morning, he goes, "You get really excited if you have a 9-iron or 8-iron when you play with us," because I play the tips.
So every time I had a 9-iron or 8-iron, I was super excited today, and those were my opportunities and I capitalized on them and I'm pretty happy about it.
Q. 5-under through round one here at the KEB HanaBank Championship.  Pretty windy out there.  How were you able to manage so many birdies out there today?
DANIELLE KANG: I took it shot by shot today honestly, and it's definitely tough conditions and I love -- I actually really enjoy tough conditions, because then you have to, every part of your game has to be in play.  Everything worked really solid today.  I just worked on keeping it steady, keeping consistent and not get too ahead of myself.
Q. You had a couple weeks to rest and train.  What exactly did you do to prepare yourself for round one here in Korea?
DANIELLE KANG: There were a lot of things that I've been doing differently.  I think it's just working on the right things with my coach, and, I don't know, let's just see how things go, and I don't think I've just been preparing just for this week.  It just something I've been working on for a long time.  So I'm hoping that my game is going to get there soon.
Q. How do you like playing in Korea?  It's the first event of the fall Asia Swing.  Obviously you have family ties and friends.  Is the environment playing here in Korea different for you?
DANIELLE KANG: I absolutely love playing in Korea.  I love it out here.  I was asking my physio yesterday if I've gotten fatter because I can't stop eating.
But you're right, the friends and family -- someone asked me this morning, how are you feeling; are you ready to play today?  Honestly, I'm really happy.  I'm not really worried about golf.  I think that's one of the main things I've been stressing about.
I'm just really excited that I'm here and I get to see my friends and family that I don't get to see very often, my nieces, and the fact that my friends parents came out and I'm playing good, which makes it more exciting -- because Korea, they love when you play well.  They cheer you on and I like that.  I mean, everyone knows me.  I like it when it gets loud.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT