KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 29, 2018
Danielle Kang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How are you feeling today?
DANIELLE KANG: I'm feeling great.  Just really pissed about the last three holes, but other than that...
Q. Did the heat get to you?
DANIELLE KANG: I don't know.  It's just kind of -- I hit a wall randomly, but I played some great golf today, so really happy with getting myself back in play.
Q. When you woke up this morning, was it gone?
DANIELLE KANG: Oh, it was better by last night.  Like I just felt better.  Yeah.  I felt better by last night.  I just ate pretty bland food and got up this morning, and yeah, I'm just a little bit out of it.  It's fine, though.  I played some really good golf today, so I'm very proud of keeping myself in play, even yesterday.  For me it was very tough, so I kept myself -- shooting 1-over, I was very proud of that, and today, obviously it's a disappointing finish, especially with a reachable par-5.  Bogeying there and really annoying.
Q. How did you do that?
DANIELLE KANG: You'll never know.  See?  You'll never know how I did it.  I'm not going to tell you guys.  You guys missed out on a good round of golf today.
Q. Well then tell us about the good parts.
DANIELLE KANG: Yeah, I mean, I made some really good putts.  I almost holed out a couple times.  I holed out for birdie on No. 4.
Q. From where?
DANIELLE KANG: 112 yards out, I holed out.  I hit it in the water off the tee, but I told my caddie, I hit it pure into the water, so I wasn't really upset about the water because I hit it so good, and then I ended up making birdie, so that was good.  I made some really good up-and-downs today.  Yeah, so at the end of the day, I have 36 more holes.  Like I said, it's a major.  No one is going to take it that low, and scores seem pretty steady, so shooting under par and shooting in the 60s is always good.
Q. Considering what's happened, you have to feel pretty good about it.
DANIELLE KANG: Yeah, I was at 4-under at one point, so looking at the leaderboard, I wanted to set a goal to finish at 5.  Every hole is a birdie hole, right, so give yourself an opportunity and give yourself a putt.  That's what I was trying to do.  Just giving myself opportunities to get up there.  But at the end of the day, my caddie -- I was just really unhappy about the finish, and he was just kind of saying, well, no one wins it on a Friday, and plus you've got to keep yourself in play, which I did.
Q. When you hit it in the water, was it the wrong club?
DANIELLE KANG: No, it was a driver.  I just hit it really, really good.  I was in the water; what are you going to do?  Sometimes you hit it really good in the water.  You hit a bad shot and it ends up in the hole, and sometimes you hit it really good and it ends up in the trap.  From that tee box, I pured it into the water.  It wasn't that bad.  I hit that good.
Q. It was like a heat index of 106, 107 today --
DANIELLE KANG: Was it?
Q. That was the feels-like temperature.  How much water did you drink, and how did you handle the heat?
DANIELLE KANG: To be honest, I don't think I did very well with energy level and all of that.
Q. You didn't handle your energy level well?
DANIELLE KANG: No, I didn't.  I just kind of hit a wall to be honest.  I was really energized and got pushed -- I'm an aggressive player, and I kept pushing, and my body started getting tired.  I don't think that was really my fault, though.  We were just kind of go, go, go today, and I didn't really eat as much as normal, but at the end of the day, I felt good.  I felt good, hitting it good, so at the end of the day, you've got to keep yourself in play, which I did.  I shot in the 60s today and I made the cut.  Weekend time.  Step 1 is to make the cut, right?  I was outside the cut line yesterday.
Q. (Indiscernible.)
DANIELLE KANG: Oh, my bogey on 7?
Q. The par-5.
DANIELLE KANG: I wasn't mad, I was -- it bothered me because I -- sometimes you just know you're not going to make it, and I just didn't make it.  Like I just know that it wasn't going to go, and I don't know why I putted it anyways.  I don't know, I just had a brain fart, and I brain farted the next three holes.  So I kind of tried to get back into my own system, but I hit some great drives, great second shot.  Hit a great second shot in, went over the green, had a great chip, missed the three-footer for par.  So there's nothing I could really -- it wasn't a mistake, but at the end of the day -- it is what it is.  You're going to miss some three-footers, you're going to make some 10-footers.  It's golf.  I guess it was meant to be.  It was meant for me to miss it.
Q. The three-footer on the last hole?
DANIELLE KANG: Yeah, I missed a two-footer on the par-5, too.  But I can't really look at those two misses because I made some good putts today, too.  Like I said, maybe it was meant for me to miss that putt.  Maybe if I made it, it would have been like really, really weird.  I don't know.  I will never know what would have happened if I made it.
Q. Then it would have been meant to be.
DANIELLE KANG: I don't know, then I would make it.  But right now we're standing here and finished at, what is it, 2-under?  So yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT