LPGA KEB HANABANK CHAMPIONSHIP
October 13, 2018
Danielle Kang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Danielle, current solo lead, 12-under through round three.  What was working out there so well for you today?  
DANIELLE KANG: Actually I got off to a very slow start today and I was 2-over par through quite a bit of times, and I fell back a lot, but my caddie really talked me through a lot of the shots and kept me together to be honest.   
I was getting kind of emotionally annoyed with putts not dropping and I'm looking at the leaderboard -- I'm a leaderboard watcher and everyone knows that, and seeing I'm four shots back all of a sudden, and he just kept telling me:  You're putting great and don't change anything.   
He kept me in the game today, so 4-under, six birdies coming in -- he told me I had six birdies and I made it.   
 Q.  What was your strategy going into today's round and did it factor to how frustrated you were?  
DANIELLE KANG: Well, I just get frustrated if things are not going -- it's not just necessarily the score, if I'm just making little mistakes that I shouldn't be making but that's just golf and he reminds me of that every day.  Play 72 holes, sometimes it's going to happen and he talks me through it.   
Honestly I was not in a good mood in the beginning, but he kept telling me, six birdies are out there.  I said, okay, well -- so then I just said, let's just have some fun, and I don't know why, I was trying to force things.   
At the end of the game, you've just got to trust your game and that's what I did.   
 Q.  You had such a great round, round one, and again to pull off such a great round, what does that do for your confidence level going into tomorrow?  
DANIELLE KANG: I'm really excited to play in the final group tomorrow.  I love that I'm in the lead in Korea.  We come here once a year and this is so special to me.   
Like I said in the beginning of the week, people kept asking, are you ready to play.  I said I'm just really, really happy and I get to be around my friends and family and my cousins came out today.  I just -- I'm looking around seeing if they need water.  I'm focused, but I'm just happy to be here.   
 Q.  What would it mean for you to get another win, back-to-back seasons?  
DANIELLE KANG: I'm not necessarily just looking at that.  I'm just honestly really happy with the process at the moment.  I've been going through a lot of rough times through the last few months, and honestly, I'm just kind of still working through it a lot of the times, and even I look really steady but I'm still fighting it and I'm just trying to get into the happy place again and just playing golf and not worrying about or having just anxiety or anything like that.  So I'm just really happy about the process so far.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT