U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
May 31, 2018
Danielle Kang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Did you end up playing at all yesterday?
DANIELLE KANG: Yes, I did.  I played nine, the front nine.
Q. So you saw the whole course?
DANIELLE KANG: I saw nine on Monday and nine yesterday.
Q. Can you talk about the conditions today?
DANIELLE KANG: I feel that the conditions were fine.  I mean, I definitely got a few mud balls out there.  I think it's fine.  Like I said, it's part of golf.  Greens are rolling amazing.  I don't know how they drained that water, but it's fast.  I realized it was fast after smashing the first few putts by.
I mean, the golf course is definitely tough.  Even it's wet, I know it's not playing as firm as they want it to be.  The golf course is playing very long.  I had a couple of 5-woods into the greens and stuff.  I had a 5-wood in and had a couple of 4-irons.  Definitely challenges like every aspect of the game.
Q. Having the seen the golf course one time, were there some shots or anything that was tricky out there that if you had a normal amount of practice rounds --
DANIELLE KANG: I said in the press conference yesterday, you can play it 20 or 30 times, but the way USGA sets it up, you show up on Thursday and you are like, What is this?
I think that this week, I think having caddie knowledge is really important.  My caddie knows a lot about the golf course and it helped a lot.  Being able to trust certain things that he says and going for certain things that he says and going for certain pins and being okay with that.  I think that gives you an edge if you have two people knowing the golf course.
Q. You said yesterday that some people are definitely stressing out, but you weren't one of them.  How much do you think your attitude coming in affects your play?
DANIELLE KANG: I stressed out a little bit.  It depends on my mood during the day.
Just yesterday I didn't get to bed until like 10:30 or 11 o'clock and I had to wake up at 4:15 or something.  It's just like any other tournament, you have done the best you can and prepare the best you can.  Not being able to see the golf course one more time isn't going to affect the way I play, the way I prepare for the week.  My attitude coming into this week, approaching the tournament as it was anything else is helping quite a bit.
Q. When you look down and saw mud on your ball, what were your thoughts?
DANIELLE KANG: Funnily enough, my brother actually made me practice mud balls when I was younger.  So I was thinking about that yesterday.  If there are mud balls, they are mud balls.  I remember playing when I was 15 and I was getting so upset because the golf course was wet and it was getting mud.  And him and I were having a match and I was trying to clean it off and he was like, no, no, no, you have got to learn how to hit mud balls.
It actually gave me a sense of calm.  It wasn't, oh, crap, there is mud.  You have to adjust, what is this mud going to do, how is it going to affect the shot.  The fact that I have previous experience of my brother -- learn.  So it's definitely helped.
Q. What is the secret for hitting a mud ball?
DANIELLE KANG: I can't tell you that.  I can't tell you that.  You have got to figure that out.
Q. What is your caddie's experience here?
DANIELLE KANG: What was my --
Q. You said your caddie had a lot of experience?
DANIELLE KANG: He was stressing out too.  He hasn't walked the course.  So yesterday was the first time he finally finished walking 18.
The work that he's done, the confidence that he had of knowing the golf course really helps me to hit my shots without any doubt and full confidence in being able to shoot at the pins and being really aggressive the way I usually play.
Q. How did the advice from Trey pay off today?
DANIELLE KANG: I definitely went into some places he told me not to go to.  It definitely helped staying on the left side -- he's like don't go there, and I definitely went there.  It happened three or four times, but it's okay, I saved it..






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT