HSBC WOMEN'S WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
March 3, 2018
Danielle Kang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Thoughts on your day?
DANIELLE KANG: I grinded it out today.  Actually I wasn't hitting it very well in the beginning.  The greens were kind of slower for me the front nine, so I left everything short.
But towards the end, I just started to hit it harder and give it more of a chance for birdies.  I got unlucky on the last hole, hit in the fairway and end up in a patch of sand and seen it plugged, all that stuff.  It's okay.  We have another 18 holes to play.  We played really well today.
Q. What was it like playing with Nelly, given you were paired together in a group of three and watching her climb up the leaderboard giving you some heat today?
DANIELLE KANG: It's only Saturday, so it didn't really bother me.  I played with her last week.  She's a great player.  She shot really well last, too.  I think she made like six birdies in a row last week.  But yeah, at the end of the day, I worry about my own game.  It was fun, though.
Q. Given the stress you suffered in round one, you fell asleep stretching, chipped your tooth, things like this you could have done without, but being one back of the lead going into round four, it's pretty good, isn't it?
DANIELLE KANG: Yeah, I mean, every day, it's drama.  My life is a drama.  I don't love drama.  Drama loves me.  Maybe I am dramatic.  Yeah, it is what it is.  It's life sometimes.  Things -- nothing could be perfect every day, so just got to take it and run with it.
Today I was really late.  I think I had 60 seconds to tee off.  I go the to the tee within 60 seconds.  That's just me.  That's okay.
Q. What caused you to be late?
DANIELLE KANG: A lot of little things.  I don't know.  I like was laying in the locker room, didn't realize what time it was.  Next thing I know, I have I have five minutes.  That's just me.  It's all good.  My caddie just looks at me, you do you.  I know.  As long as I make the tee time, we're good.
Q. Would you have preferred to go into tomorrow where you are?  Do you like to chase?
DANIELLE KANG: Either/or.  It actually doesn't bother me.  I wasn't really thinking about whether I was going to be in the lead tomorrow or chasing, but Nelly had a really solid game today.  She played really well.  She shot 7-under.  Any time you shoot 7-under, you play well.
I didn't want to finish on a bogey but it was a really unlucky lie on the fairway, quote fairway, got plugged in the bunker.  But I gave myself a really good par chance and I ended up one shot behind the lead.  Got 18 more holes to play and that's a lot of golf.
Q. Still in the last group.
DANIELLE KANG: I shot 2-under today.  That's not bad.
Q. You still seem to be having fun.
DANIELLE KANG: Definitely.  I do like just having birdies and playing well and being competitive instead of people making mistakes constantly and dropping back scores, instead Nelly was playing really well and birdieing.  I played with her a few times now.  So it will be fun tomorrow.
Q. Did it feel like she was pushing you all the way today?  She had a strong start and you had to respond, as well.
DANIELLE KANG: No, I wasn't really worried about what she was doing.  I was more annoyed that I kept leaving every putt short.  Might have been the rain.  The front nine was not rolling as fast as but it started to dry up and the putts started rolling out.  It is what it is.  I mean, I played pretty solid.  I scrambled in the beginning kind of here and there, and I wasn't hitting it that great.  So just tuning up today.
Q. Did you talk about a fly buzzing?  What were you saying, the way you had the bogey?  What stopped you?  I thought you said there was something happening when you were hitting the ball or not.
DANIELLE KANG: Just now I said that?
Q. I almost missed hearing --
DANIELLE KANG: I did not say anything about it.  Do you have a question, though?  (Laughter).
Q. Well, you were explaining your bogey.
DANIELLE KANG: No, I was not.
Q. Were you not?  What was said?  The shot you dropped.  The bad lie in the fairway.
DANIELLE KANG: The 18th hole?
Q. Yes.  What were you saying about it?
DANIELLE KANG: Oh, I just got super unlucky.  You can't do anything about it when you have a downwind west shot up a hole above you and I have a 120-yard shot and I'm in a patch of sand.  There's nothing really I can do.  So I tried to clip it and I got plugged, so then I go, okay, cool, all right.  Whatever.  Best thing I could do is get out and give myself a run at par.  That's what I did.
Q. Do you feel there's a number that, a sort of score you can shoot tomorrow to put yourself -- give yourself a really good chance in I think you're 14-under.  Is 20-under sort of where you want to go tomorrow just to get a chance?
DANIELLE KANG: I don't know, man.  I have no idea what's going to happen tomorrow.  It might be 30 miles per hour wind tomorrow, who knows.  Somebody might shoot 59 tomorrow.  I have no idea.  10-under might shoot 59, I don't know.
Q. What have you got planned now?  Are you going to go back to the range?
DANIELLE KANG: I've got to go chip a little bit.  I chunked a chip, oh my God, it was terrible today.  My chipping wasn't -- after that little chunk, it kind of threw me off.  But it's just a little fine tuning here and there, definitely.  So just hit the range and putting and stuff.
Q. What hole was that when you made that bad chip?
DANIELLE KANG: 8.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT