SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 29, 2017
Danielle Kang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Birdie is always a nice way to end a round.  Tell me about what happened.
DANIELLE KANG: Well, my rib, I think I pulled a muscle in my rib joint yesterday around the 12th hole, and then after that, I've been so uncomfortable.  I haven't been able to breathe very well.  But like it doesn't affect my shot, though.  When I go into a putting stance, it just tightens everything up.
The front nine, I was feeling the same way.  It was just so uncomfortable.  I kept hitting my back with my putter.  I just couldn't get to it.  We had a rain delay and my physio, Shane Campbell came out, and he needled me during that 15 minutes, dry needling.  So he needled the muscle between the ribs.  I laid down on the floor and he just needled me.
Q. Literally, with a needle?
DANIELLE KANG: Yeah, I got dry needling done.  He was thinking there's nothing else I can do, just needle.  I said, well, it can't hurt worse than it hurts right now.
Yeah, and after I came back out, I just felt more relaxed over the putts.  I was able to go into my own putting stance and not be in so much pain whenever I go into that stance and just started dropping bombs.
Q. Overall you're tied for second.
DANIELLE KANG: Yeah, I was watching the leaderboard, and I kept tell myself, push to 14 and see what happens.  I was walking up the to on 18 and saw Cristie was on 14, and I said, "You've got to get to 14."  That was the number I needed to hit today.
Q. You got there.  What do you do now?
DANIELLE KANG: Got to wait and see.  She's back at 15.  You never know.  After a slow start today on 12, like the first 12 holes at even par, with six holes to go, you can't wish anything else but give yourself a chance.
Q. So ultimately, no matter what, you're happy with how you've done this week?
DANIELLE KANG: You know, on the last hole, I gave myself a birdie opportunity and all I told myself was, "You need to get to 14."  And I got to 14, so I'm very happy.
Q. What's next for you?
DANIELLE KANG: Japan.
Q. And then week off and CME?
DANIELLE KANG: No.  I play Blue Bay, too.  I'm playing all of them.
Q. How do you pace yourself through all this?
DANIELLE KANG: People say I'm young, but you know, you never know.  I have my mom out me, which is really good.  She helps me out a lot on the road when she does travel with me, so it makes it easier on me.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT