HSBC WOMEN'S WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
March 1, 2018
Danielle Kang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Nice going, a 68, in clubhouse, and you said how sweltering it is but you're pleased to be in.  
DANIELLE KANG: Yes, it was a very solid round overall today.  Had a little drama this morning but had a bogey-free day and it was very -- it felt like easy golf, which that's what you want every day.   
 Q.  What was the drama?  
DANIELLE KANG: I broke my tooth.  I fell asleep during stretching.  I don't know what's going on.  I was stretching out on the floor and next thing I know, I slept 30 minutes.   
 Q.  You fell asleep stretching and you broke a tooth?  
DANIELLE KANG: I broke a tooth.  Call the dentist on range.  It's all good.   
 Q.  It's remarkable you came out and shot such a good round after all that but you woke up, the tooth will be sorted but a very good round of 68.  Looking at some of the birdies you made, excellent 2 at 15.  
DANIELLE KANG: Oh, that was a good 2.  I home-runned it during the Pro-Am.  I was like, okay, trust it, you've got this, and it was a good birdie.   
 Q.  Lots of them to be had today and your good friend, Michelle Wie is on 18 behind us, having a lovely round of 6-under par.  
DANIELLE KANG: Yeah, seems like she's playing pretty solid, too.  I've been watching the scoreboard all day.  Lots of good golf out there.  Birdies are out there, but it's tough.  Definitely playing tougher than last year I feel like, for me, at least.  The greens are firmer; it's rolling faster; the course is longer; I showed up, and I go, "What happened here."   
 Q.  You put together a great bogey-free 4-under round today starting out in the first round of the HSBC Women's World Championship.  How do you feel, other than warm, coming off the golf course?  Looked like a pretty smooth round for you today.  
DANIELLE KANG: I like the way played today.  I played very easy golf.  Everything seemed to flow very nicely out there, and that's what you want any time you tee it up.  There are a lot of birdies out there and the course is playing definitely tougher than last year as far as I remember.  Yeah, it was a good day.  Solid day.   
 Q.  You're off to a great start overall this season.  Do you think this is a nice push you've got to help get you back into that winner's circle you got to taste last year?  
DANIELLE KANG: Definitely.  Like I said before I even started this season, that I worked harder than I ever worked during the off-season.  I've put on muscles, I've put on weight and I'm hitting it further, and I'm definitely feeling that my game is there and I trust my game more.   
I definitely want to be in the winner's circle again.  I got a little taste of it, so I want more, obviously.  So definitely a good start to the season.  Playing more consistent.  That's what I wanted at the end of the day, more than just about winning.  My goal was to be -- definitely be in contention more and give myself chances and that's what I'm doing.   
 Q.  You're definitely giving yourself those chances early.  We've got your good friend, Michelle, a stroke ahead of you who just finished her round.  What's your relationship like?  It looks like you guys have a great time.  
DANIELLE KANG: Yeah, she's a big sister I never got to have.  Just blessed to have her in my life.  She's waving from across the fairway, and I know she's playing well.  I'm watching how she's playing.  You know, it's great to have support out here.  I've got good friends out here and Michelle is one of them.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT