SOLHEIM CUP
August 18, 2017
Michelle Wie West
Danielle Kang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Danielle (inaudible).  What's it like to have her as a partner?
MICHELLE WIE: I was trying to support her all day.  Let her shine.  Purposely missing my putts today so she can make hers, just making it a little more difficult.
But, no, we had fun out there.  It was great chemistry.  I felt like we make such a good team (inaudible).  We were having so much fun today (inaudible) going out there.  It was fun.
Q. Danielle, your first experience, rookie on the Solheim Cup team.  Has it lived up to every one of your expectations?
DANIELLE KANG: It has.  It's exceeded my expectations.  I'm having so much fun out here.  I've got to play with my big sister today.  I got to play with Lizette earlier today.  They're actually setting me up to make the putts, and they're helping me make the putts.
So, yeah, just been a great team.  And I think we have really good chemistry on the golf course and off the golf course.  And on that par 3, I'm asking her, is my 65 number good?  She goes, no -- 67, no, 70, 68.
MICHELLE WIE: No, 67.
DANIELLE KANG: Like I can control a yard.
MICHELLE WIE: Yeah, you can.  It was 67, not 68.
DANIELLE KANG: But it's that confidence that I get; they believe in me.  It's been absolutely wonderful.
Q. Pretty good fun, the Solheim Cup, isn't it?  Just how it is and how comfortable have you felt out there today?
DANIELLE KANG: I've been really comfortable all day.  I think my partners are helping me to be comfortable.  And they've been just fantastic to play with.  And I never feel like -- I never knew what it felt like to have a team.  And I wished they were my teammates all day, every week.  But I see her all the time.
Q. You guys, well documented, you're very close, you're very good friends.  How significant is that when you're out here fighting, playing together, fighting for your country, trying to get points on the board?
MICHELLE WIE: For sure, you've really only got each other out there.  It's just you and your partner.  And all day I was trying to support her, let her shine.  And she did so great all day.
But we just, early on we, I birdied the first hole, she birdied the second.  And we did a great job all day of alternating, and she did great.
Q. How nice was it to see that red on the board and kind of feed off that momentum as well, Danielle?
DANIELLE KANG: It was great.  I kept watching the whole day.  I'm like, okay, four points are towards us right now.  And me and Michelle just wanted to keep that up and then just get a point for the U.S.A. team.  We were having so much fun out there.  We were singing songs.
Q. What songs?  (Laughter).






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT