DIAMOND RESORTS TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 21, 2021
Danielle Kang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  THE MODERATOR:   What a great first round here at DRTOC.  How do you feel now that you got the first round under your belt?
 DANIELLE KANG:   It was a really fun round today.  Besides what I shot, I had a blast.  Like I do, I really love playing with Lee and Cole.  We have so much fun.  I want to play with them every day, but get re-paired, so...
 Q. You play so well at this golf course.  Would you say it's one that you particularly like?
 DANIELLE KANG:   I think I like playing this golf course because there is a lot of birdie opportunities, eagle opportunities.  It's a risk/reward.  I like holes that -- like No. 16.  It's kind of drivable but not really at the same time.  Drivable holes that have a lot of penalty around it is a good driving hole, in my opinion.
 So I just think there was some good shots played out there and it's scorable.
 Q. Was there a particular birdie that was memorable to you, or when did the momentum start kicking in?
 DANIELLE KANG:   I don't really think there was like a specific momentum.  I just hit good shots today and made some good putts.  The guys have really good vibes.  We always try and have fun.  I actually didn't even look at the leaderboard until way later.
 There were some holes -- they get more excited if I make a birdie, so I want to make it.  Yeah, it wasn't a specific birdie, but there was a par-5 -- I think it was -- what hole was that?  13?
 Q. Yes.
 DANIELLE KANG:   Yeah, that hole is really cool birdie because I didn't -- my caddie didn't think I could cover the bunker from the tee and I said I can and then I did.  Then he said I couldn't get it around the bunker and I did.  So that was cool.
 Q. I know you didn't get as much practice and preparation as you would have liked, but what part of your game were you most satisfied or pleased with today?
 DANIELLE KANG:   I think my short game was really good today.  I had a lot of good feel and touch around the greens and made some good saves.  I chipped in once today, which was cool.
 And even the chip on the last hole wasn't easy.  Straight into the grain, and I had -- just had good feel with the wedges, and that's what I been working on a lot, so...
 Q. Which hole was the chip-in?
 DANIELLE KANG:   9.
 Q. Danielle, out of your saves, any real good par saves?
 DANIELLE KANG:   I would say 4 was a good par save.  I hit in the bunker and then I got greedy because it was four on, and then I chunked it out of the bunker and then I wanted to chip it really close and I miss hit it.  Then I hit it to about, I want to say six or seven feet.  That was a good par save.  It was a lot of the greed.  (Smiling.)
 Q. There is a lot red, white, and blue at the top of the leaderboard today.  Have you thought much about the Solheim Cup coming up in a few months from now?
 DANIELLE KANG:   Yes and no.  We have the Solheim Cup Zoom call meetings and things like that, but just like last year you know how International Crown got canceled?  You never know what's going to happen.
 I would love for all the tournaments to happen, but sometimes it's not the case.  Solheim Cup is an honor to be a parts of USA, and just hoping that we can have fans and that it will be better by September.
 Q. Would be you happy if there were a limited number of fans on site?
 DANIELLE KANG:   I would want fans.  It's a Solheim Cup.  I don't know what it would be like without fans.  I've never felt anything like it when I played my first Solheim in Des Moines.  Fans kind of make the tournament for me, so...
 I'm not sure.  Hopefully there will be.
 Q. You and Ollie sometimes set goals for the day and what score you think you might shoot.  Was today that kind of day?
 DANIELLE KANG:   No, not really.  We -- I told him I haven't gotten much work in and I apologized to him before.  He says, Don't apologize, but as is player I want to be prepared as much as I can.  He works hard.
 But he said sometimes relaxed you is better than really prepared.  Let's just have fun.  That's kind of my attitude right now, and I know my game is there.  Today I made some good saves and hit some good shots.
 I pull hooked some drives off the tee, but I made it work.  I know there were some missed shots, but we were just trying to have fun, to be honest.
 Q. Speaking of fun, question that I love asking players this week, we're so close to Disney.  If you could play with any Disney character, who would it be and why?  I know I asked you this yesterday, but if it's changed.
 DANIELLE KANG:   What's changed?
 Q. If you could play with any Disney character, who would it be and why?
 DANIELLE KANG:   Like any Disney movie?
 Q. We've got Minnie Mouse, Elsa.
 DANIELLE KANG:   I was going to say Stitch.
 Q. Yes.  We haven't had Stitch yet.
 DANIELLE KANG:   Yes, I want Stitch.
 Q. You mentioned you would like to have Lee and Cole out there with you every round.  Is that something that you -- maybe can't request every round, but do you make sure you have them at least on Thursday?
 DANIELLE KANG:   I can't tell you that, but I did play with them every Thursday for the last three years.  My scoring average with them is pretty good, so...
 Q. What is it about that vibe that gets you off to good start?
 DANIELLE KANG:   I just feel like I'm playing with my friends back at home and I'm not stressed.  That's kind of the vibe I have.  I know tournament golf we always want to play well and win, and sometimes we get so caught up we forget to enjoy it.
 Those two guys, you can't not have fun with them.  At least once a year I'm guaranteed one round, hopefully.  I don't know if we're going to be paired next year together, but probably.
 Q. You're going to at least ask I suppose.  Somehow.
 DANIELLE KANG:   Can't confirm or deny what I do to get the pairing.  (Laughter.)
 Q. I guess leave it at that.
 DANIELLE KANG:   Yes.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT