LOTTE CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY HERSHEY
April 15, 2017
Danielle Kang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DANIELLE KANG: It's great to finish with a 66 on the final day and moving up the leaderboard.  I got off to a really hot started and tried to get the ball constantly rolling in the hole.
Left a couple short in the beginning, but tried to keep the momentum going by making par putts.  It was just a fun day.  Lizette played really well as well.
We were both making birdies here and there, and it was just fun to play with a friend.
Q. I think it was on 14 you got within two shots of the lead.  Were you aware with what was going on in front of you?
DANIELLE KANG: I was looking for the leaderboard and I didn't know where it was.  I always look at the leaderboard.  After I made that bogey on 16, I realized I was two shots or three shots out.  The leader was 17 at that point.
I was like, Okay, let's try to make a birdie here and then hole-out on the next hole and then see what happens.
Q. Yeah.  Was that what you were doing, just kind of going for it?
DANIELLE KANG: No.  I was just trying to hit a good shot there.  I actually did hit it good.  Just turned it over a little more.
The wind was very switchy today.  Kept going from southwest to northwest, either downwind or into.  Off the tee was into and then it was down, so I needed to fly the 8-iron 146, and then I trying to give it a little extra and absolutely turned it over a little bit more and ended up in the water.
It's okay.  Then my caddie was like, Just make it up and down.  What are you going to do?  Birdie in the water.
Q. I saw you make a little fist pump after that.  Was that a big putt to close out?
DANIELLE KANG: Yeah, I looked at the leaderboard and I needed to finish top 10.  I looked at it and I was like, You don't want to finish with a double after a great start.  You want to make a really good bogey.  That's all I could ask for.
Q. Last question.  I was walking out to I think it was 8.  Were you running?  Were you on a dead sprint?
DANIELLE KANG: I was running.
Q. So that was you?
DANIELLE KANG: Yeah, I run all day.
Q. Is that a normal thing?
DANIELLE KANG: No, I like seeing the group in front.  I don't know where they were.  They were playing really fast today.  After I hit my tee shot I kind of jogged to the fairway.  That's what I usually do because I'm a very quick-paced person and I don't like walking very slow.
I walk pretty fast, but it's a twosome today too, so I wanted to keep it going.  I usually just jog down on the fairway.
Q. Hiking it pretty good.  I was impressed.
DANIELLE KANG: Yeah, I ran from the nine green to like the clubhouse.
Q. I saw you.
DANIELLE KANG: I sprint all over the place.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT