OMEGA MISSION HILLS WORLD CUP
November 25, 2007
Zhang Lian-Wei
Liang Wen-Chong
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:  Welcome, everyone.  4-under par 68 in the final round foursomes and 7-under par total for the tournament.  Firstly, can you tell us, what can you take out of this tournament after producing China's best finish in the OMEGA Mission Hills World Cup?   
 LIANG WEN-CHONG:  Yeah, we are really happy with where we finished.  Six birdies is exactly the same number that we had in the second round of this tournament, and we had a really good round.  We coordinated with each other pretty well and are happy with the result.   
 ZHANG LIAN-WEI:  Yeah, I feel the same.   
  
  Q.  There are a lot of very excited galleries following you, and there were even people running around, up-and-down and making a lot of distractions to you, how did that affect the round?   
 ZHANG LIAN-WEI:  Really, I enjoyed the whole day today.  I like people to come and see us play, and we don't expect the perfect crowd.  As long as the crowd is here, we're happy.  So I'll say thanks to all of the people coming to see the China team, and we need people to come and see China golf.   
  
  Q.  Actually, if this is the World Cup that you've finished in with Korea, the same ranking, for only the Asian team, so do you consider yourselves the Asian No. 1 out of the other countries?   
 ZHANG LIAN-WEI:  Well, the World Cup is the World Cup.  We're playing in the World Cup so we don't consider this in comparison to the rest of the Asian games.   
  
  Q.  You've been playing with the Korean team, and how well do you know them and what do you think of their ability?  What's your favourite team in these four rounds of golf in the World Cup?   
 LIANG WEN-CHONG:  Yeah, we had a good round with Korea and they are pretty strong.  We met them and play together with them on the Asian Tour a lot.   
 Regarding the world-class players, that's the reason why we want to play in this World Cup.  And first of all, it really depends on where you want to put yourself into this World Cup with the rest of the world-class players.  It depends on how you're going to make the most of it and how you're going to make the best of it and that's what I expect in four rounds of golf.   
 ZHANG LIAN-WEI:  Yeah, I know the older one, he's a winner on the Asian Tour and I even know his father.  We are pretty good friends.  So we really had a good time playing with Korea.   
  
  Q.  Obviously China's best-ever result in the World Cup is here but is there any disappointment because on the second day foursomes, there were just a few bad holes and without those holes, you could really be right up there at the top of the leaderboard?   
 LIANG WEN-CHONG:  Yeah, we did make some mistakes in the second round of the foursomes.  But as you can see, it happens.  We really did our best, and especially today, we avoid the same situation which happens in the second rounds, and that's the only thing that you can see out there.  We are trying to make the best of it.   
 Yeah, people make mistakes and we did good in this round of golf.  I think the things that we've been doing today is the best that we can do, and throughout this tournament, I did learn a lot of things.  And with this kind of tournament, we can learn a lot of things in this kind of team play and I think that's the best thing in the past four rounds.   
 ZHANG LIAN-WEI:  Well, nobody wants to see a big seven in the second round.  That was a really big seven, but it happens.  But no, we don't want to see this kind of huge, triple-bogey happen.   
 It's not an easy game at all and we are trying to make the best for the galleries and fans who have been following us all the way.  This is a really good tournament and I think we will play even better next year because throughout these four rounds of golf, we think we are still even more strong and the best team playing in China.   
  
  Q.  What is the best thing that you received in these four rounds of golf?  Your A Game, where do you see that in China?   
 ZHANG LIAN-WEI:  Well, the best thing of the four rounds, first of all, I'm really happy to play with Liang Wen-Chong again.  That's the first thing that I treasure most.   
 And I'd like to thank the sponsor, Omega.  Omega really put on such a great event for us and for the all of China and for the rest of the World Cup teams and this is something I've never seen in my life, especially all of the galleries, the fans.  I've never seen this kind of big, big tournament in my professional career.  So that's why I think this is only the beginning.   
 I'd like to thank all of the fans that came all the way here to back the China team.   
  
  Q.  It was 12 years ago that you played in the first World Cup here at Mission Hills.  How has your game changed now to 12 years ago?  And what were you doing 12 years ago if you were actually at Mission Hills for that World Cup.  And as a second question, do you expect to be playing together in the World Cup in another 12 years.   
 ZHANG LIAN-WEI:  Yeah, 12 years ago, the first time the World Cup was here in China.  We played in the old clubhouse in Shenzhen area which is the Nicklaus World Cup venue.   
 Actually, the first day we were facing the defending champions from the USA, Fred Couples and Davis Love and this is something I had never dreamed of.  Even in that first round, I never even knew where I was playing.  Well, if I go back 12 years ago, I would never think I would play that kind of golf.  They are really strong and really hard to beat, something I can never forget.   
 Yeah, we did pretty good.  We did a very good score if you want to come from last, so that's the only thing I can remember from 12 years ago.  My partner at that time was Cheung Jun, and I'm really glad that I have this kind of partner which we get this results which is the best ever, especially this is my fourth time representing China for the World Cup.  That's what I feel about the 12-year difference.   
 Of course, regarding the next 12 years, you know, I'm 42, 43 years old, and I consider myself a strong player, but I don't think I can play another 12 years.  Still we are very good partners.  I will stick to this kind of team play the most that I can play.  I'll stick to it.  Thank you.   
 LIANG WEN-CHONG:  12 years ago, I just started playing golf for two years, and I knew nothing about the professional tournaments or even World Cup.  That's really, really -- as you can see, 12 years ago, I was only a beginner at golf and quite new.   
 After a couple years of getting into it and turning pro, I saw myself on the right track of following in his steps.  He set up a good example of Chinese professionals to make highlights in tournaments worldwide on The European Tour and Asian Tour.  He had a lot of success and set the right direction for the steps to follow in my career.   
 Since that was the first time I partnered with Zhang, and we had another chance playing in the World Cup from 2001 and we do have a lot of chances to play in the Dynasty Cup and Buddha Cup, and we always have a really good score on this kind of team.  So I think I will -- I don't want to tell you that we're going to -- how long we are going to play with each other but if we have a chance, I'll stick to play with Zhang again to make even another highlight in the World Cup venues.   
  
  Q.  After three rounds, today you finally seem colour coordinated a little bit.  Did you guys prepare that or plan it beforehand or just coincidence?  And what's your plan right after this since you will have a big break?   
 LIANG WEN-CHONG:  Yeah, I'm going to have not a really long break because I have one in Japan and one in thigh lapped, the Volvo Masters.  And of course, he's going to go get the Order of Merit in Asia.  Since I'm planning on playing The European Tour next year, I'll start really early in 2008, maybe January, so I won't have a very long break.   
 And regarding the uniform, we did talk about at dinner last night and it turns out a little bit of yellow/yellow and we would wear black trousers and black shoes.  That's what we did today.  But I think that's not really a big deal because we are on the same boat no matter what kind of boat it looks like.  So it's going to be like that sailing the boat in the same direction.  That's how we did regarding the colours.   
 ZHANG LIAN-WEI:  I'm going to play in the Volvo Masters of Asia.  It really depends after this, I'll see my ranking on the Asian Tour and I will play in Bangkok, the Volvo Masters.  That's my plan.  Other than that, I have no idea.  Probably I will have a break.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT