OMEGA MISSION HILLS WORLD CUP
November 22, 2007
Zhang Lian-Wei
Liang Wen-Chong
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:  We've got Team China, 7-under par first round, you must be pretty happy with the start.  Can you tell us about it, Mr. Zhang. 
 ZHANG LIAN-WEI:  Quite pleased with 7-under, started with two birdies on No. 1 and No. 2 but in the middle of the round, I kind of got a little bit quiet.  It's unfortunate on the par 5s we missed quite a few good opportunities to go low.  We were hoping to get down to 10-under for the total day, but overall, I think I would grade myself a B-plus or an A-minus for the overall 7-under. 
 CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:  Mr. Liang, could I have your comments, please. 
 LIANG WEN-CHONG:  7-under overall today, I'm quite pleased.  But looking at the leaderboard now, 7-under is really not up in the Top-10 so going into tomorrow's round in foursomes, we might be going a little bit more aggressive and hopefully get into the Top-10 into the weekend so that we will get a chance to hopefully pick up the trophy on the weekend. 
 CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:  Big crowds following your group today.  Did it help, encourage you to play better? 
 ZHANG LIAN-WEI: Everybody knows the golf course here is not very easy to walk especially from the green to the next tee.  Sometimes they take a shuttle to the next tee and then the fans will be still way behind. 
 But overall, I'm so happy to see so many supporters around the golf course.  Sometimes they were yelling to go for it, and it might have interfered with play a little bit and also to the other place in the same group.  But I'm so pleased to see all of the support around the golf course. 

 Q.  Many of the teams are saying they are worried about tomorrow's format, the foursomes, because it's much more difficult to make a lower score.  Do you feel that the China Team has a bigger advantage because they know each other's game so well? 
 ZHANG LIAN-WEI:  Playing the alternate-shot tomorrow, you are not responsible for your own shot.  You are responsible for the person who is going to hit the next shot.  So of course it's a lot more pressure. 
 But we have played together so many tournaments in the past few years, and we know each other's game.  We know the yardage.  We know how far we should go and when to be aggressive and when to be conservative, and with all of the support also on the golf course, we hope they will play better tomorrow and get an even better result. 

 Q.  Can you talk about the difference in playing in the '95 World Cup and this year? 
 ZHANG LIAN-WEI:  Back in '95, there was a lot of disturbances on the golf course, telephones and everything and a lot of the people on the golf course, they didn't know much about what's golf and the etiquette of golf. 
 But this year, at least most people and all of the supporters on the golf course, they are much better in that way knowing how to enjoy and watch the tournament and support the team. 
 I'm quite pleased.  And also prior to the tournament, last night, we got together and we talked about the strategy and we are very comfortable with the chemistry between us. 
 LIANG WEN-CHONG:  Back in 2001 when we played the World Cup in Japan, we played together as a team a lot more chances in the last five, six years like the Dynasty Cup in Mission Hills and also the Buddha Cup in Beijing. 
 So we know each other's game very well, and having the World Cup played in Mission Hills for the next 12 years, hopefully there's going to be at least one time that we're going to hopefully bring the trophy into China and share that with all of the supporters. 
 ZHANG LIAN-WEI:  We were very pleased on No. 16 with both of our approach shots were aimed at the same spot and ended up at the same spot, so we both had the same landing spot and also had the same distance for a birdie chance.  And it's all because during the practice round in the Pro-Am, we calculated how to do all of the approach and all of the breaks on the greens. 
 So it's all of the effort we already made before today's round and then we had the nice birdie on No. 16. 
 CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:  Thank you, guys, and all the best for the rest of the week. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT