FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
May 27, 2004
Zhang Lian-Wei
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Zhang Lian-Wei, 3-under par, 68 today.  This interview will be interpreted by Gerhard Kutt.  Before we start do you want to explain your relationship with him and how you guys got together?

GERHARD KUTT:  Basically, IMG asked me to help out for the two weeks here.  I moved here from Hong Kong after being around Asia for about 41 years.  I'm from the southern part of China.  I speak a little bit of Cantonese, so we at least can communicate with each other.  Zhang obviously does not speak any English, and it's really for a level of comfort for Zhang.  I drive for him and I take care of anything that he requires while he's over here.

JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  If we could start with some opening comments about the day.  I know you played in the Masters over here, but obviously today a great day for you on a day with very hard conditions.
ZHANG LIAN-WEI:  The Masters was the first time I had ever played in the U.S. on the PGA TOUR, and I didn't expect the crowds to be what they were, and also the combination of the fans, plus the fact that there were many, many famous players, the world's best players there.  I was pretty nervous, so it took me a while to get settled.

So this is the second time this year.  I already know a little bit more of what to expect.  The practice rounds went well, so I think my level of comfort is here now.  I'm much more comfortable.

JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  You were also the only player among the 156 players without a bogey today.  A difficult thing to do with the condition of the greens and the winds up to 25 miles an hour.
ZHANG LIAN-WEI:  Basically my goal today was to shoot as many pars as I could, and just keep the ball in play.  So I was shooting for pars.  I wasn't trying to do anything fancy.  Basically the rule of the game for me today was to play steady and get pars.
Q.  Can you go a little bit into how you started?  I gather you didn't start until you were 19, and were you a javelin thrower once; that's what I read.  How did you go from javelin to golf?
ZHANG LIAN-WEI:  I was 20.  When I was in high school I participated in javelin, and it was probably after high school that I met a Japanese person who happened to be in Zhuhai who said, why don't you come play golf with me, you can caddie for me, et cetera.

The Japanese guy took me under his wing and showed me what golf was all about, the rules, what it meant to be a caddie, and I started playing with him, as well, and that's basically how it started.
Q.  This was in your hometown?
ZHANG LIAN-WEI:  Yes, this was in Zhuhai.  It's north of Macao, and Macao is becoming famous because MGM is going in there and Sands Venetian.
Q.  What part of China is that?
ZHANG LIAN-WEI:  This is the southern part of China.  Zhuhai is north of Macao, and Shen-Zhen, where I currently live is north of Hong Kong.

I'm from Shen-Zhen, that's where I live, that's the golf course that I belong to.  So I hope that people will be a little bit more clear, I'm not from Hong Kong, I'm from China.
Q.  At what stage of your youth was golf banned?
ZHANG LIAN-WEI:  It wasn't that it wasn't allowed or banned, there just simply wasn't any golf where I was living.

The first golf course was built in 1984 in China, Jung Sun, which is in the southern part of China pretty close to where I live.  Zhuhai built the second course one year later in 1985, so golf courses have literally only existed in China since 1984.
Q.  Do you feel the weight of the expectations of the Chinese people on you as you are over here playing in the United States?
ZHANG LIAN-WEI:  Not many people in China know that I am here playing this tournament.  They did know that I played The Masters, so there's a lot less pressure on me here, bearing in mind that aspect that you just asked.
Q.  Will they know if you're in contention on Sunday?
ZHANG LIAN-WEI:  China will probably get the results by tomorrow, and if the scoring is good, then they will definitely be interested in my results, yes.
Q.  How is the Chinese food in Memphis?
ZHANG LIAN-WEI:  Okay (indicating thumbs up).
Q.  How long have you been in Memphis?
ZHANG LIAN-WEI:  Since Saturday.  Well, Saturday evening.
Q.  How did the invitation come to pass?
ZHANG LIAN-WEI:  The boss of FedEx invited me here.  I played golf with the CEO of FedEx, it was a father and son.
Q.  Where?
ZHANG LIAN-WEI:  In China.  And after they played, he said, I'll invite you to come to play this tournament.
Q.  Do you know if it was Fred Smith?
ZHANG LIAN-WEI:  It was last year that we played together, and he said, I'll invite you to play.  I'm actually not sure because the names just go over my head.  His father is retired and his son is the boss now.
Q.  Are they from the United States?
ZHANG LIAN-WEI:  Yes.
Q.  Is this the first round by a Chinese player in a PGA TOUR event?
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  He played in the World Cup, but that was a team event.  He was the first Chinese man to play in the Masters.

GERHARD KUTT:  You'd have to go back before the 1940s, I think, in order to find someone else.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Do you know?
ZHANG LIAN-WEI:  There are Taiwanese people that have played on the PGA, but they're not mainland Chinese people.
Q.  What do you like about Memphis, and why do you feel comfortable here, besides the food (laughter)?
ZHANG LIAN-WEI:  My first impressions have been very good of Memphis.  I think the absence of pressure is just felt.
Q.  What were your impressions of the golf course?  What did you think of the golf course?
ZHANG LIAN-WEI:  This course isn't quite as difficult as the one at The Masters.  It was much tougher at The Masters, the course at The Masters.
Q.  Does the wind not bother you?
ZHANG LIAN-WEI:  You have to be careful when the wind blows, so it's more difficult to play in the wind, yes.  I just have to be more cautious.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT