UBS HONG KONG OPEN
November 17, 2012
Zhang Lian-Wei
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  CALVIN KOH:   Thank you for coming.   As we were walking town to the press centre we were stopped by so many supporter asking you to sign your autograph.   I'm sure this tournament is more about rewarding the galleries that have been supporting you the last three days, as well.   
LIAN‑WEI ZHANG:   It's a very great round today because there's a lot of friends from Hong Kong and a lot of people who play golf here.   They enjoy walking down the course with me today and support me and hopefully I will have a better round tomorrow.  
CALVIN KOH:   You looked better in your round today, except for the three bogeys, you could have gone even further than your 9‑under today.   
LIAN‑WEI ZHANG:   Started with a great round today, got three birdies, but unfortunately there were three bogeys coming in the middle of the round so played quite conservative on the back nine, and just gave myself a good chance for tomorrow.   Hopefully it will be a better round.   
   
 Q.   What would it mean to win tomorrow?  
LIAN‑WEI ZHANG:   Well, it might be a bit early to say it right now, there's still one round to go but it would be an honour to be able to win tomorrow if I get the chance, since winning the Macau Open and the China Open, that means winning the UBS Hong Kong Open would be like a great 'China Slam,' so we'll try the best tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   What is your strategy tomorrow?  
LIAN‑WEI ZHANG:   For tomorrow's round, it really depends how I play tomorrow.   I will not be too aggressive or too conservative.   It really depends on how I feel tomorrow during the round.   
   
 Q.   What did you think when you saw Michael top his tee shot on 10?   
LIAN‑WEI ZHANG:   I knew that when Michael touched the ball during the practise round and the ball actually went about a few metres.   I knew he didn't break a rule but we were kind of laughing at each other, and Michael Campbell was asking me, was that all right.   But John just said, well, I'm sure we are on TV and officials should be able to decide what happened.   So they were pretty sure nothing would breach the rules.  
   
 Q.   What happened with your bogeys?   
LIAN‑WEI ZHANG:   On No. 6 I had a 3‑putt and starting from that hole, I got a little bit tense.   
On No. 8, I saw Michael Campbell use a 6‑iron and I decided to go with a 5 and we both got a terrible result with a tee shot.   Luckily I got a pretty good bogey out of that.   
No.9, the tough par 4, we both went into the bunker on the right.   It was good that we both got par and it got me to calm down a little bit, so on the back nine I played a bit more conservative and no more bogeys came out.   
   
 Q.   It seems like you and Michael Campbell were having a few laughs out on the golf course today.   Do you know him well from perhaps past tournaments in previous years?  
LIAN‑WEI ZHANG:   We've been friends for quite a few years on The European Tour.     We played together back in Hal Asia at some European Tour events and a month ago at the Mission Hills Star Trophy, we sat down and had a coffee shared some laughs.   So it's a very comfortable playing rounds with Michael Campbell.   He's a very funny person and it's really enjoyable playing with him.   
   
 Q.   He's a nice guy and good friends, so relaxed?   
LIAN‑WEI ZHANG:   Yes.   
   
 Q.   Good support today?  
LIAN‑WEI ZHANG:   It's great to see some friends from Hong Kong supporting me, also some friends coming over from the border coming over to support me, as well.   It's good to have people walk around the course today and hopefully tomorrow that will give me a bit more support and have a great round.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT