OMEGA MISSION HILLS WORLD CUP
November 29, 2009
Zhang Lian-Wei
Liang Wen-Chong
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   LAURY LIVSEY: We would like to welcome our host, Team China, Zhang Lian-Wei and Liang Wen-Chong, into the interview room, who anyone issued the tournament at 11-under. Could we get some comments about your tournament overall and your day today.   
 LIANG WEN-CHONG: Overall the whole week, our performance is not up to what we had expected before the tournament. But we have tried our best and hopefully in the future if we will be able to represent China again, we will try to improve our standard.   
 ZHANG LIAN-WEI: Overall, the whole week, we are very inconsistent. Sometimes we played some really good shots, but quite a few times we made some major mistakes.   
 So overall, I would not give us even par in our overall grades. I think we didn't play up to our standard. We tried our best and hopefully in the future after several times partnership, we will try to improve our performance in the future.   
  
  Q. What do you think about development of golf in China for the Olympic Games?  
 LIANG WEN-CHONG: Since the game of golf has been announced as the official sport of the Olympic Games of 2016, we would like to see more and more junior golf development and training program supported in China. We all know that Zhang has his junior club, this is the ninth year, and also, I am coming out from the Chungson Hot Springs Golf Club which has a very good junior program, as well, hopefully more and more junior programs will be supported by more sponsors that will also have the opportunity to develop more junior golfers, and maybe in the future, those golfers will be able to represent Team China to play in the future Olympics and the World Cup.   
  
  Q. What do you think of Mission Hills as a site for hosting the World Cup?  
 ZHANG LIAN-WEI: Since this is the third year the World Cup is being held in Mission Hills, it's probably the best site to have such a major tournament, because we can see that more and more fans are coming out to the golf club to support Team China and the whole tournament, and I'm very happy. We have tried our best and I think Liang is very mature and has become a mature player now, and as team we have tried our best in this World Cup.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about your round?  
 LIANG WEN-CHONG: Today for the first part after eight holes, we were 2-under, but unfortunately on the 9th hole, we came out with some mistakes, especially with the club selection.   
 ZHANG LIAN-WEI: Instead of a 5-wood, I chose a 3-wood and maybe we played a little bit too aggressive and ended up with a double-bogey. But that's the way golf is. Sometimes you play some good shots and sometimes bad shots happen, and that's the way to do it.   
 At that time, I think we still made a good choice, but with a bad club selection, a bad result, and that's the biggest mistake that happened today, the 9th hole with a double-bogey.   
  
  Q. Do you have a prediction which team might win the World Cup this year?   
 LIANG WEN-CHONG: After the first round of the tournament, playing with Team Sweden, the standard of golf of the defending champion is much stronger and much longer than Team China.   
 ZHANG LIAN-WEI: Before the tournament started, they said it is very tough for Team China to be able to finish in the top three, because we understand there is still a big gap between Team China and the top few teams playing in this tournament.   
 Even though golf has been announced as an Olympic sport and it will be in 2016, that's only seven years away, and do we have enough time to produce more and more young junior golfers hopefully in the future to represent China in the future Olympic Games or the World Cup, it's going to take a lot of support from everybody and a lot of sponsors and a lot of support from the government and the golf association, and hopefully everything has to be done to produce more junior golfers to be representing China.   
  
  Q. How come Team China after the first two rounds, was still near the top ten on the leaderboard, but on the third day and especially today, you have come all the way down to below 20.   
 ZHANG LIAN-WEI: There is still a big gap between Team China with the top teams, technical and mentally. There's a lot of departments that has to be improved, and that's something that we have to try to work out, and also, whoever is representing Team China in the future, there is still a lot of improvement to be made.   
 LIANG WEN-CHONG: Both myself and Zhang have played a lot of tournaments overseas the last several years, and we believe that the standard of coaching in China is to be improved.  
 Hopefully in the future the Golf Association or the other clubs will be able to bring in more and more high-profile and better standard coaching, international coaching, into China to improve the game of golf.   
  
  Q. What do you think of your season and where will you play next year?  
 LIANG WEN-CHONG: This is the eighth tournament I have played in the last couple of months and mentally and physically I am pretty tired, and it's about time to take a break after this tournament.   
 But you know, for the last two months, there are a lot of major tournaments in Asia and overseas that I have played and overall I'm pleased with the results.  
 As far as next season, I have to really sit back and discuss with my team to find out what tournaments and which tour I will focus on for the next season.   
 LAURY LIVSEY: Again we would like to thank Team China for coming in. Appreciate it very much.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT