OMEGA MISSION HILLS WORLD CUP
November 25, 2009
Zhang Lian-Wei
Liang Wen-Chong
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   CALVIN KOH: Thank you for joining us today, playing for the fourth time together and especially in front of a home crowd this week. Would you share with us your thoughts for the week ahead.   
 LIANG WEN-CHONG: We have been practising for two days, and it feels good for the golf course and the condition that we are playing right now. So we feel pretty confident for the next coming four days.   
 ZHANG LIAN-WEI: We had a very good practice round yesterday, and we had another good round in the Pro-Am today. And today, we are both working on the greens, how to read the greens, and we actually decided who will tee off for the next couple of days, and the strategy that we are going to do for the next four rounds.   
 So we feel pretty good for today's Pro-Am. We talked a lot and we will be a very good combination, because this is not the first time. We have a lot of experience playing and working together as a team.   
 CALVIN KOH: How is your form coming into this week?   
 ZHANG LIAN-WEI: I have a new coach I have been working with for a couple of months and we trust each other. We are in the process of making some success so that's very good and I feel very confident. I think we are ready for this World Cup.   
  
  Q. We heard that you are going to play at least the in the Top-10?   
 ZHANG LEIN-WEI: That is probably the goal, but I didn't say that.   
 LIANG WEN-CHONG: Since this is the very first year, after the golf is voted into the 2016 Olympics, it means a lot for China to work as a team to play better and get a better result in this 55th World Cup. So we will try our best to do whatever we can, and hopefully we can get into the Top-10.   
  
  Q. Speaking of the Olympics, obviously you two might hope to be around to play together in 2016. You've had three attempts here at Mission Hills together. Do you feel that you are sort of running out of chances together as a team, and that this weekend is probably your last chance to win the World Cup?   
 LIANG WEN-CHONG: Well, considering this is not the first time we played with a partner, and it's definitely not the last time, I can ensure you about this.   
 Of course it's not an easy answer. It's a very good chance, any time if I have a chance to play with Zhang Lein-Wei, he's my big brother, at least on the golf field and I cherish every time that I can play with him, and we will try very hard to win, of course, representing China.   
 Zhang Lein-Wei and me, we are always looking forward to see the young players that can play better and better every day through our represent this time. This is always our goal, to play as a strong team from for China and hopefully we will see a lot of good teams in China in the future for the Olympics.   
  
  Q. This is the very first World Cup after golf was voted into the Olympics on October 9. Do you think there will be extra pressure for the next four days or a plus for the next four rounds?   
 ZHANG LIAN-WEI: We love to play golf and it is not pressure. We will take this in a very positive way to play better golf for China.   
 LIANG WEN-CHONG: Well, I love to play golf. This is my job. Every time I go up there, I want to play golf, very good golf. And of course, there's pressure out there on the golf course, but I think I will turn the pressure into a very positive way to work out a very good team for the next four rounds.   
  
  Q. What will be your uniforms for Team China?   
 ZHANG LIAN-WEI: We will have a China team uniform for the final two rounds. So please wait for another two more days. You will see.   
 CALVIN KOH: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT