KIA CLASSIC
March 24, 2018
Wei Ling Hsu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You started this tournament and you had a triple bogey on your third hole.  
WEI LING HSU: Yes.   
 Q.  Now you're one off the lead going into the final round.  You've been playing well all week.  What's been the key to your good performance here?  
WEI LING HSU: Even I made the triple bogey on number third hole, but I think that is another key for me.  I was little afraid at the very beginning because I missed the cut last week, so I kind of lost a lot of confidence.   
So making triple bogey on that hole I was like, Just play.  Don't even think about it.  Just play.  Just swing.  Don't afraid for anything.  Because I already 3-over.  I was like, Just play.   
After that I kind of starting hitting the ball well, solid, and starting make the putt; able to see the ball rolling pretty good on the green.   
So I think that's the other way to -- another like make a turn or something.   
 Q.  Third round is not quite finished, but at the moment there are four players tied for the lead.  You're one back of the lead.  
WEI LING HSU: Yes.   
 Q.  What is your mindset and strategy going into the final round?  
WEI LING HSU: I mean, this is not the easy course because a lot of fairway like the rough is very long.  I think everything just -- hopefully I can put it on the middle of the fairway tomorrow.  I think that's the key for everyone.   
Also the putting for -- every single one was hard to read and hard to putt.  So I think that's two thing would be the key for everyone.  Same time I will keep it in the fairway.  I didn't hit many fairway this week, so I am just hoping that I hit more fairway tomorrow and able to put the ball close to the hole.   
 Q.  You've been putting well.  A lot of the players don't like the poana greens here.  Have you adjusted to them pretty well?  
WEI LING HSU: Well, every time I go to a lot of course I don't really think about it like hard or easy.  Just like it's just another green and just do what you can do, best you can do, and just putt it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT