AL DIVISION SERIES: RANGERS v YANKEES
October 6, 1999
Bucky Dent
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. In light of what happened with Don Zimmer last night, what goes through a player's
mind when a line drive goes through a dugout like that?

BUCKY DENT: It's scary. You know, it's scary. You don't want to see anybody get hit
with a ball and get hurt. Especially a guy like Don. Any time a line drive goes in a
dugout, you're always concerned about somebody getting hurt real bad.

Q. Being the big World Series hero that you are, what do you see from your team in
post-season, what can your hitters to do get out of this big funk that they're in?

BUCKY DENT: I think the big thing is for us to relax, you know, over the course of this
year we've gone into kind of like a little bit of a funk like this before, we've broke
out. When this team breaks out, it's going to be big. So I think for them it's just to
relax and keep trying to do the things that they're doing, remember the positives. Because
we have a good hitting club.

Q. Bucky, is it an advantage or disadvantage to have a day off before Game 2 after last
night?

BUCKY DENT: I think for us it's an advantage. We flew from the west coast. We had some
guys, you know, feeling a little bit bad because they got the flu. I think for us it's
going to be an advantage.

Q. You've obviously seen some great Yankees' teams. How does this one stack up to some
of the ones you've seen?

BUCKY DENT: Well, they're the World Champions. Last year they had an incredible year,
and they pretty much have the same team with a few changes. So, you know, they're a team
to beat. They're good. They're solid. They don't make many mistakes. They have good, solid
pitching. They have a great closer, so I don't see too many holes in their club.

Q. Is being more patient with breaking balls something that has to be emphasized given
last night?

BUCKY DENT: I think Coach Rudy Jaramillo does a great job preparing our hitters. Last
night, like Rick said, we had a chance early in the game to score some runs and we just
didn't get the big hit. I think once that happens, you know, once, you know, we get a big
hit and it kind of relaxes everybody, I think you'll see some guys really start to get
after it. But, you know, Rudy does a great job preparing as far as telling them what to
look for and stuff like that. They're prepared. It's just a matter of them going up there
and having the confidence to lay off some of the pitches that are out of the strike zone
and stay in their game. Our overall line-up is pretty solid. Like I said earlier, there
were times this year where we've been in a funk and not swung the bats real well and all
of a sudden somebody will get a big hit and everybody will come out of it. We're capable
of doing that.

Q. What in general do you like, dislike about the wild card playoffs? The fact that
even though Texas had such a good record, you still had to play the Yankees since they
couldn't play the wild card in their own division?

BUCKY DENT: I like the wild card. I think it's interesting. Like this year, with all
the teams battling to the end, it gives another team an opportunity to get into the
playoffs. I think the one good thing is should the wild card play the team with the best
record, even though they're in their own division. I think that that, you know, that
should happen. I don't care where the wild card comes from. If the wild card's in, they
should play the team with the best record. I don't care if they're in your division or
not.

Q. Do you see guys pressing, hitters?

BUCKY DENT: No, not really. You know, let's give credit. New York has really good
pitching. But I don't see any of our guys really pressing.

Q. I just wanted to follow that up. Is it almost easier to say that now because it
would have meant you guys would not have gotten the Yankees in the first round?

BUCKY DENT: No. That doesn't matter. I felt it even in '96 when we played, that the
wild card team should play the team with the best record. That's really what it's for.
Whether it comes out of the same division or not doesn't matter, you know. The team with
the best record, I think, should play the wild card.

Q. Your experience, I'm sure you've been asked this many times. What are your
experiences when you come back to New York, you're out to dinner, people remembering the
home run. How often do you think about it?

BUCKY DENT: See, I have nothing but good memories coming back here. I mean I've played
on some great teams here. There's a lot of, you know, great players I played with. For me
to come back to New York, it's always a real positive thing. The people always talk about
the '78 year, the home run against Boston, the game against Boston. Those are all things
that are real positive for me. I mean it's something that you don't forget because of, you
know, the experience that you had here. So for me it's always positive coming back here.

Q. Bucky, when you loaded the bases in the first and obviously the struggles you've
had, it would have been huge to get something on the board early. How much of a deflating
factor is that when you load them and you come away with nothing?

BUCKY DENT: Well, it's a little bit deflating at the moment. But we still felt we were
going to score some runs. We had guys on base, we had opportunities, and we just didn't
get it done. But you could feel in the dugout that the guys really felt that we were going
to break out. And we just didn't get it done last night. But, you know, they're confident.
I mean, you know, they're -- it's a -- it's hard to explain unless you're in there with
them. Like I keep saying, we've been there before where we've kind of been a little bit
shut down, they shut down our offense for a little bit. Then all of a sudden, somebody
will get a hit and they'll get you. So, you know, we still felt like we were going to
score some runs last night.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT