ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
February 28, 2018
Jen Hoover
Amber Campbell
Alex Sharp
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Wake Forest 72, Pittsburgh 38
JEN HOOVER: Just really proud of our overall effort tonight and our focus.  I thought our defense was, we talked a lot the last couple days to advance and move on, you have to defend and rebound.  And I think that's our largest margin of victory in a tournament game, and I think it's because of our defense.
We held a team to 27 percent from the floor, and that was a mixture of defenses we were able to throw at them and the kids were able to just kind of adjust on the fly and I thought we did a great job locking into our game plan.
Q. You mentioned defense first, so was that your favorite part of the game, because it looked like a lot of things were working.
JEN HOOVER: Yeah, I think my favorite part of the game is I thought as a team, we just, from top to bottom, I thought we really fed and played off of each other and before the game, that was one of last things I told them is just have fun with each other and really feed off of the energy that each one of you creates.  I thought at different times during the game, that was flowing through different players.  These two sitting beside me, for sure, Tyra Whitehead I thought was big energy coming in -- and then all the offense will come.
Q. Defensively, in addition to just holding them to low percentage, you also had nine steals, had very active hands.  How were you able to use that to generate offense?
JEN HOOVER: Well, I think that's what it did, and that's what we talked about defensively.  If we can defend rebound, and we can run, that's a lot of fun.  I thought, you know, we've got a lot of length on our team and we've got a lot of versatility,.
And I thought with us being able to switch up our defenses and them really understanding what each player, what a scouting report and what the personnel was trying to do, we were able to really get some tips and deflections and stay active and engaged.
Q. Amber, it seemed like your assertiveness early on really set the tone.  You were very aggressive attacking the basket.  Can you talk about that as a point of emphasis?
AMBER CAMPBELL: Yes, well, I know that like one of my strengths is to basically get to the basket, but then also, I lock into defensively, if my offense isn't really working, then I focus on my defense to get stops and stuff.
But I mean, it was a mismatch, so I could get to the basket.  I couldn't have done it without my teammates.  They were setting great screens for me to get there.
Q. Was there frustration built up from Sunday and how that game went?
ALEX SHARP: I wouldn't say frustration.  I think we really clicked tonight in offense.  We really fed off our defense and we really spaced the floor and the bigs are setting great screens for the guards and they were looking inside, as well.  So I think it just really clicked tonight.
Q. Talking about Alex, she has the ability to be in the right place.  Can you just talk about her all-around game?
JEN HOOVER: -- before she ever got here was just that she would fill a stats sheet up, and a lot of that is, she just -- she does.  She has a knack for being in the right place at the right time, and a lot of it's toughness.
At different times throughout the year, we kind of say, you know, the two words we use a lot to describe Alex Sharp is toughness and consistency.  You know, when you look across a stat line and she goes 8-for-12, 2-for-3, 1-for-1, eight rebounds, two assists, like, that's -- that's consistency.
She does a great job reading her teammates, as well.  Sometimes she tends to get inside a little bit trying to get rebounds and that can screw our spacing up, but she's seen that a little bit lately.  You know, I think she -- when we were really getting her those mid-post jumpers in the lane, she was doing a great job, and she's got such a high release and she's really a tough matchup for people.
Q. You played ten folks more than ten minutes apiece tonight.  Will that help you tomorrow as you face Miami, and then what do you expect tomorrow out of that game?
JEN HOOVER: Well, I hope it helps us.  I think this year, we've been able to play a lot more than I have had in the past, and I thought we had some good energy and some good moments coming off the bench tonight.  You know, definitely, I think it got to help us tomorrow.
Q. Amber, was there ever a point in the game where you were able to maybe in the third quarter take a minute and kind of appreciate what you guys were doing?
AMBER CAMPBELL: You said in the third quarter?  Not really.
MIKE FINN: Thanks, Coach.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT