NL DIVISION SERIES: GIANTS v REDS
October 7, 2012
Mat Latos
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How important was it to get one here and get a split?   Obviously you can get two tonight, but with at least one win to set yourselves up going home?   
MAT LATOS:   I thought it was extremely important.   We go all the way across the other side of the country to play against a team that's been dominant all year.   Great pitching staff they have, so to take at least one from them so far and then go back to our own ballpark, we have the best record in the National League in our own ballpark, so I guess it will bring attention.   
   
 Q.   One interesting thing about the ballpark, when you shift home to your ballpark, I was wondering the difference between the two and how your pitching staff has been able to minimize damage in that ballpark this season and keys to that?   
MAT LATOS:   Yeah, it's definitely a bigger difference.   Pence's home run he hit off me was a home run as much as Posey's was.   You kind of catch a break.   You can make mistakes here, as opposed to Cincinnati.   In Cincinnati, you make a mistake and you turn around and it's four or five in an inning.   
Our pitching staff, I would say a lot of the guys‑‑ the other four guys have been pitching there for a couple of years and it's my first year there, I've given up 20‑something home runs there.   So we have been able to minimize damage by keeping the ball down and mixing the pitches up and keeping the ball on the ground more than in the air.   
   
 Q.   Dusty said you were joking, or maybe you weren't, that you could go another inning tonight.   Can you comment on that?   When do you think you might be available mention?   
MAT LATOS:   My last start in St. Louis I went five innings, I think I threw 70‑something pitches.   Normally he let us go 100‑plus.   So that takes more of a toll than 75 pitches.   I actually threw a bullpen yesterday and had a lift before.   I felt good this morning.   
A lot of times when you pitch a game you come back the next day and you're sore.   I'm not sore.   I literally was just lightening it up in the clubhouse just joking with him, telling him, I can go as much as he needs me to.   I could come back when ever they need me to, to be honest, but that's up to the GM and Dusty.   
   
 Q.   Dusty said Homer will pitch for Game 3 for sure and it's in limbo for Game 4.   Johnny will be healthy enough for Game 4.   Is it hard to be in limbo for Game 4, and if they they'd asked you to is that an option?   
MAT LATOS:   If they need me to, Game 4 is a possibility.   I threw only four inches and 60, 70 pitches, so it sucks that Johnny went down, and I don't think it's‑‑ I'm young still so it's not like I'm Bronson where I have some miles on me.   I'm able to‑‑ I feel real good, so if need be and I need to go Game 4 I will go Game 4.   
   
 Q.   Mat, is your opinion of Homer Bailey different having seen him pitch an entire season in person?   
MAT LATOS:   To be honest, I've never met the guy. I don't make opinions on somebody that I haven't known.   From what I've got from Homer, he works as hard as anybody I've seen in the league, even on days that he pitches I look at him, a lot of times I'm working out and he's in there getting loose and getting ready for the game and I watch the stuff he does, it's unbelievable.   He might as well go out and run a marathon before he pitches.   That's how he hard he works.   
My opinion of Homer, he's a workaholic and he's been healthy all year and I think it shows, the way that he's been pitching all year and it's exciting to see him throw.   He got the no‑hitter.   Literally I didn't move from the bench the whole game because just to see him throw is unbelievable.     
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT