NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIP
March 18, 2016
Brandon Sorenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Could you give us a brief opening statement, please.
BRANDON SORENSEN: The match ended up pretty much coming down to a takedown.  Again, I don't like it to be that way.  I don't like to be tight.  But that's what happened, and you've got to come out on top, and that's what I did.  I'm moving on to the finals.
Q. You said you don't like those matches, but you tend to be in a lot of these close matches.  What does it do to you?
BRANDON SORENSEN: I mean, I think it gets to the fans a little more than me.  I'm out there wrestling, and I'm staying -- like staying in my positions, and I don't really have a heart attack like some of the fans do.  I'm out there working hard.
Q. How about the coaches?  Are the coaches having heart attacks?
BRANDON SORENSEN: For the most part, they're pretty calm.  I'm sure they've been there in a few of the matches.  They know what's going on.  They're pretty much in the same position I'm in, looking for openings.  This is what you need to do and that.  But I guess I can't really say for them.
Q. What does this really mean to you, this win, getting to this position for yourself?
BRANDON SORENSEN: You know, it's another step to where I want to be, and we've got another one tomorrow to -- where I really want to be.  It's a goal that's been all year.  It's always been a dream of mine.  It's another stepping-stone to getting what I want.
Q. You've wrestled on the big stage before in high school, but this is probably a far different -- will be a far different experience at one of the most famous arenas in the world.  Do you have any idea what it's going to be like tomorrow night?
BRANDON SORENSEN: I mean, I've kind of got a picture of what it's going to be like.  Wrestling in Fargo, they put you up on a platform.  That's kind of similar to what they do in high school state finals.  You know, that's kind of similar, but then again, it's different.  It's going to be a bigger crowd here.  There's more guys pulling for you.  But what it comes down to is just you and another guy wrestling.  You're in your zone, you're wrestling.  The fans -- kind of shut out when you're out there, and that's that.
Q. I don't know if you were aware, I know you saw him earlier, but your former high school teammate, torn ACL, comes through, makes All-American, what can you say about Dylan's effort today?
BRANDON SORENSEN: That's Peters.  He's not a guy to give up.  Strong worker.  I've known him for basically my whole life.  And I heard about that, and it's not where anyone wants to be.  But Peters, he moves forward.  He's as strong as ever.  He locked an all-American spot, right, and he's still going forward.  That's what I expect of him because he's just that kind of guy.
Q. What do you like in your skill set tomorrow that could maybe give you the advantage in your match?
BRANDON SORENSEN: You know, going off what -- our previous match-up just a couple weeks ago -- one thing, I can't get ridden on the bottom and just moving heavy hands, getting him kind of stepping, stumbling to where -- that's kind of where I was in that position last time, more fakes, and then I think things will start going my way more.
Q. You're the third Iowa guy we've interviewed already, and it looks like you guys are really peaking and wrestling well, the guys who have made it this far.  Talk a little bit about being on that program and how the preparation went after the Big Tens to kicking it into the finals.  It's a very difficult thing.
BRANDON SORENSEN: Yeah.  At the Big Tens we didn't get the team trophy that we wanted, but we're moving forward.  And just being in that room, that atmosphere, those guys know what they have to do to get the job done.  Some of the best partners in the world are in that room.  That's always making us better.  We move forward from the second-place finish, and we're doing all we can to keep team points up there.  But the thing is you've got to focus on your individual match-ups.  If you go out there and do your thing, the team will put together itself.  That's kind of where that's at.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT