ZHENGZHOU OPEN
September 15, 2019
Nicole Melichar
Kveta Peschke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
N. MELICHAR, K. PESCHKE/Y. Wickmayer, T. Zidansek   
6-1, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English first, please.   
 Q.  Congratulations. Can you just give us your thoughts on the final and what you think made the difference today?  
KVETA PESCHKE: Well we are very happy we could win today. For us it was the first match indoors, basically, it was a little bit unfortunate with the weather, the rain came. But we both like to actually play indoors, so it was maybe a little bit in our favor too. And, yeah, we have never played this couple before, so we didn't exactly know what to expect. We knew that they have a good run here at the tournament, making finals, so they did something right for sure. We wanted just to concentrate on our game and game plan, which I think we did. And, yeah, the second set was definitely a little bit tougher than the first one, but we stuck to our plan and had a good finish to it.   
NICOLE MELICHAR: Yeah, I think that we did well to stick to our game and I think the difference between the first and second set was they served a bit better. I think they made a few less mistakes, but other than that I don't really know what much more to add.   
 Q.  Tell us about what you think about the tournament, obviously the first year here.  
NICOLE MELICHAR: I think the tournament did an amazing job. It seems like they have been running it for several years. The hotel is great, the organization was perfect, the food was good, the transportation, just everything that you needed was available and I have not one bad thing to say. I think they have done great job.   
KVETA PESCHKE: Yeah, me too. Very professional and high standards and we felt really, really comfortable here and hope we can be here next year again.   
NICOLE MELICHAR: Actually, one thing, they could have had better weather.   
(Laughter.)   
So improve on that next year, guys, come on.   
(Laughter.)   
 Q.  Could you describe this week in Zhengzhou in three key words and with some brief explanation. Thank you.  
KVETA PESCHKE: Oh. You go first.   
(Laughter.)   
NICOLE MELICHAR: I think we had fun. Every day with my team, with my partner and our coach, I think we had a lot of fun together. I think we were disciplined. We did our practices and just everything. We went to the gym, did what we needed to do and we had our routines. And you can think of the last one. I don't know.   
KVETA PESCHKE: I would say that iconic Zhengzhou hotel.   
NICOLE MELICHAR: Yes, the hotel is wonderful.   
 Q.  What is your schedule now for the rest of the Asian swing?  
NICOLE MELICHAR: We go now to Osaka, then Wuhan and Beijing.   
 Q.  How does this week set you up for the rest of the swing?  
KVETA PESCHKE: It's a good beginning.   
NICOLE MELICHAR: Yes.   
(Laughter.)   
NICOLE MELICHAR: Yeah, we hope to continue and win as many matches as we can in Asian and we're still fighting to try and get to the year-end championships in Shenzhen. This week definitely helps, but we still have a long way to go.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Chinese.   
 Q.  Last year you won a championship and at that time I asked you the question, why do you still play tennis and you said the passion. So we're wondering, this time you won a Premier title here, so what's your passion, because you have played for a lot of years.  
KVETA PESCHKE: Yeah, I mean, winning is obviously super sweet and I enjoy tennis, it doesn't matter in what age. It still keeps me quite fit. I enjoy playing doubles for sure much more than singles. In singles I wouldn't stand a moment on the court, no chance, so I need my partner to cover half court. Yeah, it's a great game and I still enjoy it and obviously with the win that's the wonderful bonus you get.   
 Q.  Recently from the news we know that Kim will return next year and we know that at her age and with so many years she didn't play. From your experience could you give her some advice?  
KVETA PESCHKE: I mean she's a great champion to me I think she doesn't need my advice.   
 Q.  She doesn't have your experience to play. Like she's 36 years old now and she doesn't have the experience to play at a higher age.  
KVETA PESCHKE: Well she will see, after so many years she didn't play, it will obviously not very easy in the beginning to get the rhythm. Let's hope so that her body survives the difficult matches and transition. Obviously, she's still under 40, so I hope she does well. And if she enjoys it, then, yeah, why shouldn't she try?   
 Q.  Right now your doubles ranking is at the 10th position, so your next expectation is for the Shenzhen final, right?  
NICOLE MELICHAR: Yes. We try.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT