JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 25, 2012
Romain Wattel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Tell me how pleasing this round is today?
ROMAIN WATTEL:   It was really nice.   I really enjoy, every time you play low, you really enjoy.   But today, I especially enjoy, because it's a tough course, so for the third round, I needed a really good score to be back in the game and that's what I did.   So I'm really, really happy.

Q.   Did you feel that it was possible when you first stepped on the course this morning? 
ROMAIN WATTEL:   I didn't focus on the score.   I just tried to play my best and to focus on each shot.   So I just tried to play the best shot I could every time. 

Q.   Presumably, though, there was a moment where you thought, this is good, this is exciting?
ROMAIN WATTEL:   Exactly, that's for what we are playing golf, so, yeah, it is nice.

Q.   Does it run long like that?   Is there a momentum that builds by that one birdie and you get the confident and another one comes and you just step up? 
ROMAIN WATTEL:   Yeah, yeah, of course, but when I made a good putt on 7, yeah, it was good momentum for me, because every time I made birdie on the front nine, it was a close birdie and on 7, it was like a three‑, four‑metre putt, quite important, and I holed it.   It gave me a lot of confidence. 

Q.   Presumably, you've got some confidence across the year, because you've played well without having really that many victory chances?
ROMAIN WATTEL:   Yeah, exactly.   I made a lot of Top 15, but not a lot of top four, top five.   So yeah, I played all right, but not enough to get a chance to play the victory.   So, yeah, I'm happy.

Q.   And what are your thoughts about that?   Does that become frustrating or are you pretty happy with the consistency? 
ROMAIN WATTEL:   Yeah, I don't try to analyse.   I just want to‑‑ I'm just trying to play my best and to do the best I can in each tournament, and I'm going to analyse it at the end of the year.

Q.   Are you more and more comfortable out here, enjoying it on The European Tour?
ROMAIN WATTEL:   Yeah, it's my second year, so I feel more comfortable than last year and I think it's going to be even more the next years. 

Q.   But do you benefit from knowing courses, having already done it the one year? 
ROMAIN WATTEL:   Yeah, that's easier to prepare the tournament the week before.   So, yeah, for me, I feel that's easier than last year, yeah. 

Q.   Tell me about the situation with your caddie?
ROMAIN WATTEL:   We don't know each other a lot for the moment, because it's the first tournament we have played together.   But he's a really nice guy and I really enjoy to work with him in the first three rounds. 

Q.   You were with Rod Gutry who knew you an amateur and he worked with you for a considerable.   Time?
ROMAIN WATTEL:   This is only my second caddie, so I don't know a lot about caddying.   Yeah, we will see.   But he's a good caddie.

Q.   Did you just feel it was time for a change?
ROMAIN WATTEL:   Yeah, exactly.   I think it was a good time to change, and we worked together for more than two years, more than two years, and I felt that it was the maximum we could do together.   That was it. 

Q.   You must be excited about the final day now?
ROMAIN WATTEL:   Exactly.   I just tried to do my best; to play the best shot I can, and that's it, because we can't control the future of that.   So we'll see. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT