U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 17, 2016
Romain Wattel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Obviously, your first U.S. Open round.  Spent a bit more time than you probably imagined, but how do you assess how you played that?
ROMAIN WATTEL: It looked like a marathon this first round.  No, I didn't know what to expect, to be honest, because that's my first one.  But I was happy to play -- I was thinking about this on the course, I was happy to play courses like Valderrama, for example, this year.  It looks like -- the preparation of the course looks like a little bit the U.S. Open.  So it was not far off.
I think we were lucky to have a bit of rain.  So it was maybe easier to get close to the pin.  It helps me quite a bit because I could get close to the pin and I have birdie chances.  So I'm happy the way I played, and I will try to rest a little bit for the second round.
Q. The conditions changed dramatically from what you might have expected Tuesday or Wednesday?
ROMAIN WATTEL: Exactly.  What we were thinking about the strategy before the first round was totally different after the rain because then you could play to the pin.  You did not have to leave the ball so much.  So that was a totally different game, I think, from Wednesday to yesterday.
Q. And also, was it strange -- you know, your first U.S. Open, we talked about the practice rounds and the crowds and so amazing, and you come back this morning, and there's no one there.  Is that a different experience?
ROMAIN WATTEL: I'm more used to this kind of tournament with not a lot of crowd.  But it was nice yesterday to see such a big crowd even with the rain, even with the stop and everything.  So I really enjoyed it.
Q. How did you occupy yourself during the delays?  Did you get a chance to watch any of the football?
ROMAIN WATTEL: Yeah, yeah, I watched a little bit, and I was with my team, with my friends, who were just chilling, and tried to rest as much as possible because it's not easy.  You don't want to lose energy.  So I just tried to rest.
Q. Does it help, something like watching the Euros back in France?  It relaxes you?
ROMAIN WATTEL: They don't play until Monday.  So I will not watch the French team.  I really enjoy it.  I love football.  So for me it's great fun to watch this on TV.
Q. It can be quite frustrating just sitting around normally, but at least you have something there to do.
ROMAN WATTEL: Exactly.  You can occupy yourself to doing something else, watching something else.
Q. So overall, you're happy with the start?  With people talking about scores being high over par, you're 1 over par and well placed on that leaderboard.
ROMAIN WATTEL: Yeah, well, I don't know what to expect.  I'm just going to try to play as good as I can, and we'll see.  We know it's a tough course.  It's a tough tournament.  And you just try to play the best you can, and you'll see at the end.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT