BMW MASTERS
October 31, 2014
Romain Wattel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  ROMAIN WATTEL:   Yeah, that was a lovely round.   We got lucky with the weather.   I thought it could be worse.   But no, that was nice to be again with Nicolas.   He played really well and that was good for me to be with him today. 
Yeah, what else I can say?   It was nice to see my name on the board.   That's always nice, and to see Alex, as well, doing well, it makes you maybe happier. 

Q.   You and Alex, you go back quite some time, don't you, as friends? 
ROMAIN WATTEL:   Yeah, yeah, we're good friends.   So I really like to see his name on the board and he makes me more motivated, actually.   So it's nice for both of us. 

Q.   Down the years, that has always seemed to be a trait of French golf, when one of you does well, somebody follows the next week.   It seems to have that inspiring effect?
ROMAIN WATTEL:   Yeah, exactly.   I think we're all motivated when we see the other French players doing well.   That's even more this week because we are sharing the room, but no, I really like to see my friends like Victor or Alex doing well. 

Q.   You are genuinely sharing a room with somebody that's won so much money with two competitions this year. 
ROMAIN WATTEL:   No, actually I never shared the room but this week it was a bit different because we are really away from home.   So I wanted to share with him and that's always a pleasure for me to be with him in the room because he's a really nice guy.

Q.   He doesn't snore? 
ROMAIN WATTEL:   No, he does not‑‑ last night I fell asleep before him, so that was no problem. 

Q.   You touched on the weather.   I take it that the fact that the rain stopped, that course is, what, tender was the word that Nicolas Colsaerts used. 
ROMAIN WATTEL:   Yeah, we got lucky because we played not many holes with the rain, and only a bit of fog this morning, but not much.   We got lucky for two days with the weather and I don't know what they are expecting for the next two days, but if it stays like this, it's going to be a low‑scoring course I think again. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT