U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 28, 2015
Neal Lancaster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: Neal Lancaster, hole-in-one on hole No. 2.Q. Nice ace.  Talk to us about the --NEAL LANCASTER: I think the pin might have been -- I don't even know, probably 10 or 12.  Hell, I was still asleep.  169, I just took a 7 iron and hadn't hit many good irons all week, and just my caddie and me were like oh, 7 or 8.  I'll just hit the 7, and I hit it. As soon as I hit it, he said be the right club.  I saw it.  It flew right in the front, right in the hole.  We couldn't believe it stayed in.  They had to move the hole, and we just moved on through.  That was basically it.Q. That early in the morning, was there anybody following you around?NEAL LANCASTER: Yeah, there was probably 60 people up there, but I announced to them, You can all go home now.  You've seen the best.  No need to stay now.Q. The 60 people, I guess you had to buy them drinks, but you're not going to buy the field drinks, right?  Because somebody's going to win $670,000.  That kind of sucks.NEAL LANCASTER: A couple groups behind was telling me not to leave, so I'm trying to get out of here real quick.  They've got that thing backwards.  I've always thought, if you make a hole-in-one, they ought to buy you drinks all day.  So I think it's backwards. No, but a 7 iron, 169 yards.  It was a good shot, a little fade, just faded right in there, just went right in the hole on the fly.Q. Shot a 74 opener, then 71, 71, 67.  The ace helps, but seems to me you started kind of really getting in the groove here.NEAL LANCASTER: No birdies.  I only made five birdies in four days.  I butchered the par 5s, and actually, I was 6 over on the par 3s, I think, until I made the ace. But it's U.S. Open.  It's adversity out there.  You hit in the rough a lot.  You've got to count them, though, I made two great pars on 18 from down in the ravine short of the green.  So you've got to count them all. But the par 5s kill me.  Only made five birdies for the week.  Five birdies and a hole-in-one, that won't get it done.Q. As a qualifier in your first Senior Open, your impressions on how you were treated?NEAL LANCASTER: First of all, I think the USGA did a great job, and just as important, I think Sacramento area, what great support.  I mean, the fans were great.  There were piles of people out there.  Great crowds.  Great golf course.  They need to probably come back here. This is like a true U.S. Open, nothing like watching Chambers Bay, which was a great course, I'm sure.  But this is a true U.S. Open test when you got the rough and drive the ball and you've got the pins where you can't get to them.  It's a great course. I think the volunteers, you have to thank all of them for coming out.  But more importantly, just everybody coming out.  They really supported it.  It was really nice, really good week.Q. Neal, one last thing on the hole-in-one.  Have you ever seen it where the hole's got blown out and they had to move it two feet?NEAL LANCASTER: I've seen it a couple times where they had to move it.  I've seen it a couple times.Q. Were they getting to watch it on the monitor?NEAL LANCASTER: They just shot where the hole was.  They didn't show the shot because they were still asleep too, I'm sure.  We teed off at 7:48 or something like that, which is great.  You play in twosomes too.  You get your rhythm better playing in twosomes.  You move along.  When you're playing in threes, extra guy, it actually takes another hour to have one extra guy in your group.  When you're playing twos, you're just moving right along.Q. Any question there, you're going to use a 7 or 8?NEAL LANCASTER: I got on 13 and pulled out my 7 iron on that long par 4 off the tee.  I said, I'm just going to use my 7 iron from here on in today.Q. After 2, was there much argument between you and your caddie?NEAL LANCASTER: No, it's so early.  You're 6 over par at the time.  You just go, hey, 7 iron.  But something I told him over there on -- I told him on the 3rd tee, I said, Something about Sundays, U.S. Opens, I've had some luck in it.  Maybe I can shoot one of these 29s again.  I've had two 29s in the two U.S. Opens I played, and then my first Senior, have a hole-in-one on Sunday.  Something about Sundays in the U.S. Open, I love them.Q. Congratulations.NEAL LANCASTER: Thank you.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT