BELL CANADIAN OPEN
September 6, 2002
Neal Lancaster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  We'd like to welcome Neal Lancaster to the interview room.  Congratulations on another very good round.  You said yesterday you were not sure if you'd be around for the weekend, but it looks like you're going to be pretty safe.
NEAL LANCASTER:  I'm looking forward to that now. 
MODERATOR:  7:30 early for you this morning?
NEAL LANCASTER:  Way too early this morning.  Bogeyed the 1st hole right out of the gate.  Actually hit a good drive.  I picked the wrong line off the tee, hit it in the rough, I couldn't get to the green.  I just laid up.  Actually hit a bad layup shot in the left rough, then hit a good shot eight feet and missed it for par.  I bogeyed 1.  Confidence was a little shot.  I hadn't been swinging like I want to swing. 
Then I hit a good shot about 10 feet on 2 and I missed it for birdie. 
3rd hole, drove it perfect.  Hit it about 12 feet.  I missed it. 
Got on 4, played scared, played left of the hole about 40 feet, made two putts and went on. 
The next hole, I hit a 2-iron off the tee on 5.  The ball went in a divot.  The group in front of us, first group out this morning, one of the caddies didn't fix the divot.  Kind of half fixed it.  I was in half a divot.  I couldn't move the grass out of it so I had to play it.  I just swung hard and beat down on a wedge from 132 yards, it went about 20 feet past the hole.  I kind of skulled it.  I made the putt.  That kind of got me back in a positive frame of mind. 
Next hole, pin was back right.  Scary hole par 3.  It was 211, I think.  I hit 5-iron right underneath the hole 25 feet.  Hit a great putt.  It went around the hole, stopped on the back lip.  Didn't go in.  Satisfied with three on that hole. 
Next hole, hit a good drive.  Had 3-iron in there.  I hit a good shot.  It took a bad bounce out in front of the green.  Short sided myself, didn't have a chip.  I hit a great chip, hit it 15 feet.  I misread the putt. 
8, I got a great break.  I hooked it off the tee.  I think it went in the hazard and hit the hazard stake, hit a couple trees, bounced on the cart path.  Hit a wedge to the green.  Hit a wedge over 30 feet from the hole and 2-putted.  Had red paint all over my ball.  I had to have hit the hazard stake. 
9, totally different wind out there today, that's when the wind started blowing.  I hit driver, 5-iron, just off the front of the green.  I was actually playing short because if I was long, it was impossible.  Hit a good chip up about three feet, made birdie there to get to 1-under for the day. 
10, wrong club off the tee, didn't hit it far enough down there with the wind.  3-iron, 5-iron, about 40 feet.  Bad first putt, left it eight feet short, made it.  That was kind of a big key for me too. 
The 11th hole, I hit a good drive, hit a wedge about six feet, missed the putt.  Just hit a horrible putt. 
Got up on 12, the pin was back right.  It was 223.  I hit a 3-iron just playing left of the hole.  Hit a really good shot, oh, about 20 feet, made the putt.  Actually, it was just lagging down for 3 again.  Made the putt.  That put me 2-under. 
Next hole, 2-iron, wedge, just off the green, chipped it up, made about a 3-footer. 
The par 5, next hole, really big for me.  I hit a good drive.  It stopped on a downslope which was kind of a bad break.  Tried to hit a 3-iron and run it on the green, pulled it in the left bunker.  Had about a 75-yard bunker shot.  Hit it three feet, great shot, to make another birdie. 
Next hole, hit a great drive, had a wedge in there.  Kind of a sucker pin placement, so I didn't go for it.  I just played it out to the right of the I was going to take my chances on 16 because I knew I had another par 5 coming.  Made par on 15. 
16, hit driver.  Hit a good drive.  Had 211 to the hole.  Hit a 6-iron.  It went 25 feet past the hole.  I wanted to hit a 5.  Good two putts for birdie to go 4-under. 
17, I hit a bad shot.  I hit it right.  It hit on the slope of the bunker, bounced hard right.  It semi-plugged in the bunker, deepest bunker on the course probably.  I hit a great shot ou three feet, like to have made it.  I was kind of amazed at that shot. 
18, 2-iron off the tee.  I had 173 to the hole.  The wind was a little right to left.  I was trying to hit it right at the flag and let the wind drift it over 20 feet left.  I hit the right of the flag, and the wind didn't move it.  It started drifting to the right.  I think it hit into the rough off the green and bounced up four feet from the hole.  It was a great break.  It could have been 5.  I hit a good shot, got a good break.  You have to have some good bounces in this game. 
MODERATOR:  What club? 
NEAL LANCASTER:  7-iron, 173.  Probably needed to hit 6.  I didn't know.  I was kind of guessing a little bit. 
It's firming up a lot.  Guys this afternoon are going to be guessing a little bit on some of their club selections.  You have to hit it short of the green on these par 5s.  I hit a 6-iron on one hole, went 230.  The firmer it gets, it's going to get more difficult.  It's kind of unfortunate we don't have any wind yet.  I shot 11-under because of that.  If we get a little bit of wind, the scores will go up a little bit higher. 
There's some trouble on that golf course.  I still can't believe the guy said it was too easy.  I haven't found anything easy about it, even though I am 11-under par. 
MODERATOR:  Questions. 
Q.  You're halfway to Tiger's scoring record for this tournament.  If conditions don't get tougher, do you think the way you're going right now, you might be able to match 22-under or surpass that by the end of the weekend?
NEAL LANCASTER:  You never know.  I'm trying not to set any goals.  I'm just trying to go out and play golf.  I don't think I'll get to 22-under.  11-under, that's good as good as I can play for two days. 
I could, but the golf course is going to get more difficult.  I don't know where Tiger shot 22 under, probably Glen Abbey.  That golf course plays a little longer than this one. 
But somebody could get hot here and shoot 62 or three.  Depends how they set the golf course up.  The TOUR officials, they have some tricky pins.  I'm sure the superintendent is not happy after the way they talked about the golf course the first of the week.  I think it's a great golf course.  We just need some wind.  It's getting firm like it's supposed to play. 
The wind comes up, you can shoot anything on the backside.  But for me, 22-under, I don't see it, but I'd like to shoot it.  I'll take 21, how is that, and forget the record? 

Q.  (Inaudible)? 
NEAL LANCASTER:  I just don't see me getting that hot with the putter actually.  If I drive the ball well, I possibly could get there.  If the par 5s play the way they did today, it's going to take 20-under. 
They always trick it up on the weekends.  I've been out here 13 years.  This is my 13th year now.  Every year they start tricking.  The officials trick it up a little bit more each year every tournament.  They trick it up a little bit more on Sundays.  They're trying to put pins in a little more difficult places because we're hitting a lot of wedges in.  They'll throw you three or four sucker pins that you might have 75 yards, but you know you can't hit it at it if you know the golf course. 
You have to make some 25-footers out here.  That's why Tiger is such a good player.  He's probably the best putter in the world from 20 feet.  All you hear is how long he hits the ball.  It ain't how long he hits the ball; he's the best putter to ever pick it up. 

Q.  Yesterday you said you were very lucky. 
NEAL LANCASTER:  Today I actually struck the ball better.  I hit the ball a lot better.  I still was fighting my swing a little bit.  But I still had a couple good breaks.  By "good breaks," I mean some places you got to play the right shot.  Like on No.  9, I hit a 5-iron to the green.  Actually, I needed to hit a 4-iron.  I couldn't hit a 4-iron because if you're behind the hole, it's impossible.  I had to hit a 5-iron short of the green 10 yards and take my chances on playing uphill.  It worked out. 
The big thing, you got to put the ball in the right spot, even though the golf course is playing short and fast. 

Q.  (Inaudible)? 
NEAL LANCASTER:  My caddie this week couldn't make it.  His car broke down.  He was coming over the mountains in Pennsylvania, his car broke down.  I got my old caddie who is from up here, Kenny Doig.  He's caddying for me this week.  He called me.  I said, "Yeah, I need somebody." 
Between me and him, neither one of us can get a word in.  We're talking every minute out there.  We're just trying to have fun.  No matter what we shoot, we're just trying to enjoy it, trying to be ourself. 
What happens to me a lot of times, when I get to playing poorly, I don't even act like the person that I am.  I just kind of get real quiet, get off to myself, get to trying too hard.  We're just trying to take it and play it as game of golf.  What happens happens.  We know we're not going to hit every shot perfect.  We're going to make some mistakes.  Hopefully we'll recover from it. 

Q.  (Inaudible)?
NEAL LANCASTER:   He actually didn't talk to 50 yards on No.  10 today.  I thought he got sick.  I thought he might have went down with a heart attack or something.  For 50 yards, I turned around, I said, "You all right?"  He said, "Yeah." 
Every shot, he's analyzing it.  If it's good, bad.  On the 12th hole, I hit a 3-iron today, great shot, 20 feet from the hole.  Take it there every day where I hit it.  He said, "That would have been nice if you hit a little fade."  I'm like, "Just carry the bag." 

Q.  Did you get your back worked on?  If so, what did they discover? 
NEAL LANCASTER:  Yeah, they fixed it actually last night when I finished here.  I just went over.  I was bound up a little bit.  What happens, I've been trying to change my swing.  I get real fast with my hips.  I spun my hips too fast.  Thrown my hip out of place.  I just went in and Tom, the chiropractor with the TOUR, he whacked it back in.  They did a little muscle therapy on it. 
It was sore last night, but it was fine this morning. 

Q.  (Inaudible)? 
NEAL LANCASTER:  Probably some of the reasons I haven't played well is because when I take it too serious, I don't play well.  The way I'm trying to look at the game.  You know, this is I think my 13th year.  I feel fortunate to be out here 13 years.  It could be a lot worse. 
Thank God I'm not in an office every day.  I get to play golf for a living.  I just do the best I can and go out there and hit it and add it up. 
One thing about this game, if you play it long enough, you're going to see more disappointment than you're going to see success, unless you're Tiger Woods.  I have seen a lot of disappointment, so can I pretty much handle anything that happens.

Q.  (Inaudible)?
NEAL LANCASTER:  Probably selling cars with my dad.  He's been in the car business for 44 years.  But I always told my mom when I was young that I wanted to be a garbage man.  They used to come by the house on Tuesdays and Thursdays.  I thought that was the only day they worked (laughter). 

Q.  (Inaudible)? 
NEAL LANCASTER:  It's their golf tournament.  I guess they can do what they want to do.  They've been doing what they want to do for however many years they've done it.  I have no issues.  I don't even get to play in the golf tournament. 
I'd love to see them change their criteria for having a golf tournament.  They only play 90 players.  If you ask me, it's probably the easiest major to win.  I think Tiger will probably win 20 of those.  When you have a 90-person field, I'd like to play in one of those every week.  You're cutting 20 guys on the weekend.  Not a lot of pressure there. 
But, you know, it's their tournament.  They can do what they want.  In my opinion, I just really don't even know why anybody  -- you know, it's their course, they can do what they want.  Like they said, "If you don't like it, don't play." 

Q.  (Inaudible)? 
NEAL LANCASTER:  '95 or '96, I can't remember.  I enjoyed it.  Augusta wasn't really what I thought it was going to be.  They needed to add some length.  I thought it was very short when I played there.  The greens aren't actually that fast, I didn't think.  It was so much undulation is what the problem was. 
Now the golf clubs and the balls are outdating the golf courses.  Like I said, it's their tournament, they can do what they want, I guess.  If we couldn't have controversy, we probably wouldn't have anything to talk about. 

Q.  Do you still live in North Carolina? 
NEAL LANCASTER:  Yeah, I live just outside of Raleigh-Durham in a town of about 8,000, Smith Hill, North Carolina.

Q.  How do you keep up with your racing? 
NEAL LANCASTER:  Well, the last six weeks I've had every weekend off.  I've been keeping up with it pretty good.  It's not hard.  I get to watch a lot of it.  I like to watch the night races.  The guy who represents me, he represents a lot of the race car drivers.  I get to go to some races, see them. 
I'm really not even interested now that Dale Earnhardt has passed away.  He was like what everybody wanted to see because he was the guy you knew was going to rough you up.  You knew he was going to be there at the end. 
The most astounding thing I ever heard was he was in 18th place with one lap to go at Daytona and won the race. 

Q.  (Inaudible)? 
NEAL LANCASTER:  Yeah, always.  Always enjoyed cars.  I like to live in the fast lane, at least I used to.  I turn 40 next week.  I'm slowing down.  I feel 60.  I'm trying to slow down.  I can't party like I used to. 

Q.  (Inaudible)?
NEAL LANCASTER:  Do we have a Dale Earnhardt on TOUR? 

Q.  (Inaudible)? 
NEAL LANCASTER:  Yeah, actually I played with Paul Stankowski the first two days.  He plays with reckless abandon.  He aims at everything.  I think he wedge to 16, par 5, made par, then birdied 17 and 18.  He just aims it and hits it hard.  He plays kind of like that.  I think he probably made 13, 14 birdies in two days and shot 5-under. 

Q.  (Inaudible)? 
NEAL LANCASTER:  I'm always talking or something.  If why feel good over the ball, I'll be talking to myself sometimes.  I prefer actually if we're going to have a little noise, let's just have a lot of noise.  Let's all sit there and talk.  I'll hit while we're talking, that's no problem.  It's the guy that's rattling the bag of potato chips that gets you.  Just walk up there and tell me you're going to rattle, don't stand over there and try to get one out.  That's the one that gets you. 

Q.  (Inaudible)? 
NEAL LANCASTER:  All kinds of things.  I might go from positive to negative in two sentences.  I'm terrible.  I'll say that a few times.  I had a couple shots yesterday, I was over  -- I didn't feel good.  I was going (moaning).  I'd hit them, the guys I was playing with started laughing.

Q.  How do you spell that? 
NEAL LANCASTER:  I don't know how to spell that (laughter). 

Q.  (Inaudible)? 
NEAL LANCASTER:  I try not to.  When it gets to going bad, I'm sure we all as players say something we don't want to say.  That's one thing about playing here in Canada.  Over at the British Open, I can say just about everything, these people won't understand me.  Being from the South, I have that quick southern drawl, I guess. 

Q.  (Inaudible)? 
NEAL LANCASTER:  No, they didn't know.  The greatest thing about over there is when I got done after Friday, I went down to the (inaudible) tent, had a few beers with a bunch of people over there.  I talked to them 30 minutes, they talked to me, and nobody understood a word.  It was great.  We were sober at the time. 
MODERATOR:  Enjoy sleeping in tomorrow.  Good luck this weekend. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT