SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 26, 2013
Neal Lancaster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What was working for you out there?  
NEAL LANCASTER:   I just got off to a good start, I actually just got off to a good start.   I think I was 3‑under through 4.   And I got a good break on the 8th hole and made a birdie.   
And actually from there in I struggled.   I probably got up‑and‑down five times.   I started trying to relax and the more I tried to relax the more uptight I got.   So, this damn game, I don't know why nobody wants to play it.  
   
 Q.   After 11 you were 5‑under, you probably were feeling pretty good at that point.   
NEAL LANCASTER:   Yeah, and I 3‑putted 12.   But I hit a really bad shot.   I had a hundred foot putt.   
But, coming in, 15, 16, are good holes into the wind.   14.   They're playing a little into the wind.   But it looks like the wind is laying down.   And it's firming up a little bit.   Everybody got a little pressure on them and it is Major, so everybody's hopefully choking a little bit like I was doing.  
   
 Q.   You go 73, 71, 71, 67, so you got better all the way in.   
NEAL LANCASTER:   I used the long putter.   I was using the long putter for about five weeks and went back to the short putter today.   And it's the first time I picked one up in five weeks.   And I actually hit it really close on the front nine and made a few.   
But I just, I still am not performing like I want to, as far as from tee to green.   I wasn't striking the ball very well.   But I got around with 67, which is good.   Would love to have four of those, I would be right there.  
   
 Q.   Talk about 18th.   That was a big up‑and‑down for you.   
NEAL LANCASTER:   I hit it left of the green and actually didn't hit a great drive and I was actually thinking, man, I would really like to chip this in, this would be some big money if I could chip this in.   
I hit a good chip and almost chipped it in.   But I was going to hit a different club and my caddie put me on the right club and luckily I just left it in the right place.   It was a straight uphill chip and it was very makeable.   I just didn't get it done.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT