GREATER HARTFORD OPEN
July 22, 2003
Akio Sadakata
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







TODD BUDNICK:  We thank Akio Sadakata for stopping by.  Akio has the distinction of playing with Suzy Whaley tomorrow. 
I know you guys have a few questions for him.  We will jump right into that.
Q.  Basically give us your overall reaction, the news that you are going to be playing with Suzy, your reaction?
AKIO SADAKATA:  Just it doesn't matter who I am playing with.  I focus on my game.  I know there are a lot of clouds falling on her tomorrow and maybe just all this week, so try to stick with my game plan and do what I have to do. 
I will be really excited to play with her.  I mean I don't know her personally.  I just met her over here.  I'm looking forward to play with her.

Q.  What's the group that you have been where you had the biggest following, the largest crowd around, what's your experience been?
AKIO SADAKATA:  For me?

Q.  Yes.
AKIO SADAKATA:  After the first round at the HP Classic at New  Orleans.  When I shot the 64 in the first round, I guess tied for first, after the first day.  That was the biggest day around for me, that's the first time.

Q.  How did you feel that you handled it the second day, did you feel like you handled it okay?
AKIO SADAKATA:  Yes, I was fine, I stayed calm.  I just tried to get it done. 
TODD BUDNICK:  Will you even think about the crowds, the larger crowds on Thursday, or is that something that you just worry about your own golf?
AKIO SADAKATA:  This week?

Q.  Yes.
AKIO SADAKATA:  Not really.  When I focus, I can really focus.  I don't see the other people when I am playing golf.  I just focus.  I like to hear a lot of claps, yes, just stick with it.

Q.  Did you even give any thought at all going into this week that you could be paired with her, did that enter your mind?
AKIO SADAKATA:  Actually, I didn't realize until yesterday that she was playing it.  I thought about it last night, no surprise.

Q.  When you are playing in a threesome are you the kind of guy that likes to talk to your playing partners or are you more a guy that just likes to keep to himself, talk to his caddy and worry about what he is doing?
AKIO SADAKATA:  Obviously it depends on the golf game.  If I am playing good, I mean, you know, I'm talking to my caddy, talking to other players.  If I'm not playing well, or something, I have to really focus.
TODD BUDNICK:  Thanks. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT