THE CHAMPIONSHIPS WIMBLEDON
July 11, 2017
Svetlana Kuznetsova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








G. MUGURUZA/S. Kuznetsova
6-3, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. During the match, your coach appeared to be gesturing to the umpire at one point about the instructions that Muguruza was being given from her box.  Did you notice that?  Did it affect you at all?
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Excuse me, start the question again.
Q. During the match your coach was gesturing to the umpire, and he appeared to be disappointed or bothered by the instructions Muguruza was receiving from her box.  Were you aware of that?  Did it affect you or annoy you?
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Well, I could hear that because it was pretty clear because we all speak Spanish here.  She was talking to her all the time.  But it's her physio.  I mean, I know she acts like this all the time.  I know that.
I don't think it's appropriate, but okay, I was focused on my game.
Q. Was it just encouragement or do you think it was coaching?
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: My coach says it's elements of coaching.  The thing is, the same umpire gave my coach a warning last year for telling me, Vamos, vamos.
Then this girl was talking to Garbine during the match.  She didn't say anything to her.  That probably what surprise him a lot.
Q. Given that, do you think because on the normal WTA Tour you can have coaching, do you think we could get rid of all this debate and just allow coaching at Grand Slams?
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I don't see why not.  I think it's great these coaches can work more their job.  It's more interesting to the fans.  I don't see why not.
I mean, I'm not here to complain, whatever they were doing on the court.  Garbine played very good game today.  And I think she deserved to win, because I didn't play so well.
Q. Some coaches during an on-court visit hide the microphone so no one can hear.  Do you ever think it's too intrusive and fans shouldn't listen or do you think it adds an exciting element for the fans?
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: You see, guys, why I think it's all started is because of the TV.  I don't think it's coaching started because of the players.  I mean, I think the scheduling is make for the TV.  Many times who make the schedule, they don't care about the players.  It's sad, but it's true.
This is a thing.  If the fans not going to hear, it's not going to be there.  The same thing, like I finish last night at 7:00 to play doubles.  I check the schedule.  I was really mad.  Because why do I play first, not second.  When I ask the question.  They said, Because of the TV.
The TV is more important for the tennis than the players, probably.
Q. How did you feel about the match?  What maybe didn't go your way?
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I think in the start I had some options on her serve.  I had Love-30, 15-40, couldn't turn it around.  Then I just lost silly break, quite fast one, the first set.  Then it was again everything even.  Second break in the second set, it's pretty simple.
But these small moments, small chances really matters a lot.  I think Garbine recovered very good today.  She defend very good.
Q. How do you see Garbine's chances in the tournament now?
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: It's very difficult to say because all players are playing extremely tough.  Definitely she going to be the favorite in the semifinals for sure.  If she plays like she played today, she has all the chances to win the title.
Q. Do you find with her, she doesn't have great results on the tour, but she manages to do this at the slams, do you find that strange?
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: No, I find it strange because she doesn't have consistency so much.  She can do some tournaments very well, and some tournaments she can be out very quickly.  I mean, I don't know why, but it's probably something whatever.  She can answer better than I do.  But, yes, it's like that.
Q. Novak is coming in in a minute.  I know his press conference will be a lot about the condition of the courts.  You've been coming here for a decade and more now.  How would you compare the condition of the courts this year to previous years?
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I mean, I played on Court 12, some courts there.  Once I played doubles on Court 14 or something.  I thought the color of the court, it's not green.  For me, the grass at Wimbledon should be perfect, everything, the most beautiful thing of the grass you could see.  So that was weird for me.
I didn't play on really small courts like other girls do.  They told me it's really slippery somewhere, but I didn't feel it.  And the court today was fine.  I cannot say much about it.  Just the color, but it's strange.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT