WIMBLEDON
June 25, 2008
Svetlana Kuznetsova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  S. KUZNETSOVA/K. Bondarenko  
6-2, 6-3  
   
  Q. After three sets on Monday, was it nice having an easier day today?  
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Yeah, definitely. I think I also did everything to have it easier. I played much better, and I started to play much better on grass. So this is one of the days when you go through one, two, three rounds it's great. You start to play a different game and really happy with that.  
  
  Q. What was the difference between Monday and today do you think?  
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Well, I was just playing a little bit more like you should play on grass, not on clay court. I was inside, I was hitting the ball from the start. Yesterday I played three sets. Just when I had very important moment I started to play better, but today I started from the start, so it was okay.  
  
  Q. And it's very difficult then to move from clay to grass?  
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Yeah, for me it's difficult to adjust, yeah.   
  
  Q. And your serve today, you dropped your serve twice. Was that disappointing, that you might have wrapped it up a bit quicker?  
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Yeah, I could not. I could not get my serve in as much as I would like to. I was maybe wanting to do too much with this, and I wanted to go more forward, which I think I did pretty well. Yeah, I was really happy with everything except my serve.  
  
  Q. When she won three games in the second set, you saw the match out quite well. Were you pleased with the way you saw the last two games out?  
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Well, like the game before the last, it was very tough one, but I think I still played better, and then it should go my way because I think I did everything to make it my way.  
  
  Q. And you might have her sister up next, who has beaten you twice, both times you've played. What edge has she had on you before?  
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Yeah, definitely. I played with her in Berlin and I play her in Warsaw, both. Warsaw I played really bad, and Berlin I played first set very well, and something happened in the second set, and then she started to play much better, and I just dropped the level a lot.   
 But still, definitely I'm looking forward to try to get the revenge and play better. Definitely hungry for that match, and I'm looking forward to play that. She's a very tough opponent because she plays hard, she moves well, and yeah, looking forward to playing that.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT