ROLAND GARROS
June 4, 2017
Svetlana Kuznetsova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








C. WOZNIACKI/S. Kuznetsova
6-1, 4-6, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You and Caroline's matches are always very intense and dramatic.  This was the first one on clay.  Did she surprise you a little bit?  It's your favorite surface, I guess?
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: No, she didn't.  I think when I was playing the game I should play it was bringing me success.  Caroline was defending very good today and playing very deep, close to the lines.
I felt like I lost my chances.  I had many opportunities, many deuce games in the first set.  Second set I played better.  I could have broke her earlier, but I did it at 6-4.  And then in the third set it was couple key moments when I miss easy volley on deuce on my serve, and she broke me.
Then I was 3-Love down.  It was very difficult to play then when it was against the wind for both of us.  Then I came back.  It was 3-2, break point, to make it 3-All and serve.  There I missed it a little bit, and Caroline was playing good, consistent.  I was missing a little bit too much.
Q. She has been famed for her backhand always, but here on clay it seems like her forehand is coming up as a weapon, as well.  Do you agree?
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Oh, I think she still builds a game with her backhand.
Q. At some points in the match you made some gestures towards your coach.  I was wondering if that was a specific aspect of your game you were unhappy about or it was just frustration?
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: He knows.  He knows what it was (smiling).  It's just between us.  It's nothing else.
It's not something special.  It's something I don't like he's doing.  That's it.
Q. She once before reached the quarters here.  What perspective do you see for her this year?
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I don't know.  Every round is tough, and next one gonna be even tougher.  So I just wish her good luck.  I don't know.  It's not my call to make.
Q. But what do you make of her game so far?  She's struggled on clay previous?
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: She played good today.  She played very deep, very risky, and yeah, I don't know what to say else.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT