PACIFIC LIFE OPEN
March 16, 2008
Svetlana Kuznetsova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  You look to be so in control in the first set.  What happened in the second set?   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I just stopped a little bit.  I lose my concentration.  Just a little bit there and a little bit there.  I had chances to break her straight, and I didn't do that.   
 So she was lead 2-Love.  She got a little bit more -- I let her be back in the match, and I stopped.  And every time I was worse and worse till 5-Love, and I managed to win that game and come back and I had chances at 5-4 which I didn't use.   
  
  Q.  Do you take anything out of that match?   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Well, definitely.  I have to figure out how to start to play better earlier than 5-Love down in the second set.   
  
  Q.  The conditions a problem at all today?   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  No.  They were not that bad, like yesterday was much worse.   
  
  Q.  You must be pleased your match was today and not yesterday, given the strong wind?   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Yeah, definitely.  We played doubles yesterday.  It was awful.   
  
  Q.  When you are down 5-Love like that, how important is it to try and, you know, rather than just say, Forget this set; I'll get her next set?  How important is it to try and come back right then?   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Well, I try always to think that every point is important because I think in the end of the day it's true.  There is always -- any point could be turning point in every match, so I got to play the best.   
 Of course some points you play bad and I just did some easy mistakes and I was not moving my feet.   
 Definitely it was important because I still wanted to have some games under my belt.  I didn't want to go to the third set 6-Love down.  So I changed that to give me key to play better in the third.   
  
  Q.  You've reached a couple of finals earlier this year, I believe?  How happy have you been with your form this season?   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I was a bit disappointed about Australian Open to lose, because I think I was very well prepared and I don't do so well.  But this is just -- I have to take some lessons from that.  The same as from Doha.  You know, it was so windy and I didn't play well.   
 Dubai I did final and -- I mean, she played good; I didn't play so well.  In tennis, you got to go with whatever comes and try to make it better all the time.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT