MEDIBANK INTERNATIONAL
January 11, 2008
Svetlana Kuznetsova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  Do you feel like there was a game that she won or maybe you lost? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I think, I mean, we both played some moments very well and stuff.  It was some ups and downs but it was all right because one side was so windy.  I was not doing mistakes by myself.  She was pushing me to do them. 
 Sh was aggressive.  I had 3-Love, 15-40 in the third set and she served very well.  I mean, I didn't do -- she push me to do mistake.  It's not like I miss.  I think it was a great game.  Maybe I had some chances and maybe sometimes I was aggressive, had to be a little bit more aggressive, but she definitely -- she beat me or she played better maybe some moments. 
 She has maybe more experience.  She played more better some important moments. 

 Q.  The games against Justine, would you go over them with a fine-tooth comb more often because that's the girl you want to beat? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Not really.  I mean, I'm not going to go count all whatever 18 games I've played against her or whatever.  Now I think we are much closer than before.  I've been working hard and I think I'm getting closer.  I think difference is not so big, you know, and she just been there longer.  She has more experience being there, but I'm trying my best and I work hard every day. 
 I think I'm getting closer, so this is what I going to work on, my things, not about -- definitely I going to think about tactic against her, but I think I should work better on serve, these points. 

 Q.  You said the other day that one of the things you needed to do before the Australian Open, to win another Grand Slam, was to improve your self-confidence.  Does a result like this tonight give you more confidence or does it take it away because you got so close? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  No, definitely not going to take my confidence away, because, I mean, I going to be very stupid to do that because I lost to No. 1, you know.  It's only one girl who beat me and it's No. 1.  If I going to make it to the finals it's going to be great. 
 Definitely it's positive things, because I lost to No. 1 and I had 3-Love up, 15-40 in the third set and I had possibilities and I played a pretty good game.  It just change things and take them a positive way.  I mean, I cannot blame nobody for that.  I just work on my things and take positive out of that. 
 I mean, I live a good life.  I'm No. 2 and I improve every day and I'm young.  There is no taking my confidence away for sure. 

 Q.  When you were up 3-Love in the third and then things changed, can you just kind of explain more in depth what was going on? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Well, I broke her against the wind.  It was like wind blowing from one side.  I lost the same side later two -- twice my serve on the same side, si it's very tricky side to play.  It was very hard to keep serve there.  I guess she just served a little bit better. 
 I mean, I cannot -- I'm not explaining like she's No. 1, I have to be ready for every moment.  It's never relax, and I didn't relax neither moment in the match, but she just played some moments very good. 
 But In don't think that the key was exactly in the 3-Love, 15-40, because she served great there, but I had other opportunities. 

 Q.  Did you notice anything different about her game, her tactics, from the last time you played her? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  No, not really.  I knew everything she going to do and I think I done better things to play against her than I done last time, so I think this is improvement for me.  But still, you have to play better because, I mean, she's the best one now. 

 Q.  You said you worked hard in the off-season.  What were some the things that you did do get prepared for this season? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Work every day, five hours, whatever, just, you know, just do -- it's day by day the work.  It's not like doing something from another world, like going snow boarding or something.  I did opposite.  I didn't go snow boarding.  I stayed in Barcelona. 
 I just been very consistent in myself, much more consistent than before, so I think that was the key.  I think I feel my improvement in the court, and this is like the biggest pleasure you can feel. 

 Q.  But you didn't work on any specific part of your game, like the forehand, backhand, serve? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  You know, more forehand. 

 Q.  So you're hoping it be a lot bigger tool this season than it was last season? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Well, you know, what can you expect?  I feel like last year in this tournament I was sick and definitely I played much better this year.  This is the best year I started so far and it's only first tournament, but I'm really excited about being in the finals and playing Justine in this way. 
 Definitely I disappointed about the lose, but I have to take positive things.  Never let it bring you down. 

 Q.  So you're feeling good going into the Open? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Yes.  I mean, you got to enjoy the life.  I know I lost, but I know I've done everything, I gave everything.  Some moments she was just better. 

 Q.  Did you have a look at your draw?  The draw is out. 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Uh-uh, no.  I just -- Justine told me that she plays on Monday and I play on Tuesday when we were in ceremony, but I had no clue.  But some mistake I saw who I play first round, but I didn't pretend to see that because I don't care.  Like I will think about this on Sunday. 

 Q.  When did you go to Melbourne? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Tomorrow 8:00 a.m.  I know.  You let me go to sleep.  No, I really enjoy talking to you guys. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT