U.S. OPEN
September 8, 2007
Svetlana Kuznetsova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk about how nervous you were at the beginning?  Were you very nervous?  How did you experience that?   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  You know, it's very tough.  I think the match was much closer than the score, for sure.  And, you know, like I always say that -- and I'm gonna say it once more.  To beat Justine, she's No. 1.   
 When she plays her best game I have to play my best game.  I didn't play my best game so that's why I lost.  And I had so many opportunities -- not so many, but with these players like her, so high level, you just have few opportunities, not many.   
 If you don't use them, there's no way I gonna win.  I had so many of them.  I felt I just didn't move to the ball well enough because I was pretty tight.  So I think I got to learn a lot out of this final and just see -- take many times and improve it.   
 There is something about my game I have to work.   
  
  Q.  She's had moments in the recent past where as great as she is, she'll get a little conservative at times, mental lapses.  Is she at a point now where she's not going to have any mental lapses, because she seems so aggressive?   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  No, I'm not agree about it.  We're not machines.  Everybody, we're players.  We are humans.  And she is also, you know.  She is No. 1 now and I think she deserves it.  She works very hard to receive.  She's very professional.   
 She still had some ups and downs today, and I just didn't use it, you know.   
  
  Q.  Considering you didn't play much in the summer after Wimbledon, was this a surprise to get as far as you did?  Did you expect to play well?   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  You know, I didn't play many tournaments, but I did train a lot, you know.  I really trained hard.  I was improving some things.   
 But next step I have to do some improve during the matches, you know.  It's not about the training on the court.  Just when I go to play finals I wish I play at my best, and today I didn't do so.   
  
  Q.  Do you feel like the No. 2 player in the world, which is what you'll be on Monday?   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  It's very hard to say, you know, because I think player No. 1, No. 2, No. 3, it's not about only -- some people Justine, because of the quality, you know, she's No. 1.  She has unbelievable quality.   
 Like you take another player like consistency, like Jelena, you know, if I'm there, the system is like that, I think I deserve it.   
  
  Q.  What's the toughest part about playing Justine?   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I've been asked the question just now about if she gets a lead she sometimes get a little bit weak.  But for me it's tough.  Like you get a little bit -- like she get a little bit like a break or something, I think she's getting more relaxed and she plays better.  This is very tough.   
 She play pretty unusual game.  I didn't play nobody like that in this tournament.  All the girls I play play totally different tennis.   
  
  Q.  Are you going to train tonight?  I know you like to hit the ball after the game.   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  No, no, no.  I went to hit in 2004 because I had doubles next day.  I hope to have few days off.   
  
  Q.  Would it be a good comparison if we say that Justine plays like Roger?   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I don't know.  I think women and men, you can't compare.  I don't know, no?  I don't know.  I think she No. 1.  She deserve it.   
 For me, I mean, Roger, he has all the records possible.  I think it's a bit different.  Justine, she's No. 1.  athlete.  She deserve it.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT