ROLAND GARROS
May 28, 2017
Svetlana Kuznetsova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. KUZNETSOVA/C. McHALE
7-5, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. Sveta, you were so fired up in the end when you got the win.  Just talk about how tough a battle it was.
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Well, I mean, it was really, really tough.  I was playing not so good.  Like, you know, when you're so nervous and you kind of gotta relax and just play the game.  Like, I felt like I was playing against myself.
And on the changeover when it was 4-3, I thought it was 4-3.  I heard it was 5-4, and then I was just serving for the match.  So umpire got me really happy.  I'm like, What is the score?  He's like, 5-4.  I'm like, Oh, good.  And he looked at me like I was from another planet.
And it looked to me better because I couldn't win my service games, and I got so much happier and I could finish it.  I mean, it was a really difficult match for me.
Q. Can you also talk a bit about the conditions out there?  Because it was very hot, very humid, it made the balls a bit heavy, I think, and that sort of went with the rain earlier today.  What was that like also with you saying that you didn't play at your best?  Did that make things even more difficult because it was two hours and five minutes for a 5 and 4 win?  It was a long one.
A. Yeah, it was a long one.  Each game was like I had break points all the time and I just couldn't make them.
And it was not really humid.  It was really hot.  And the court was bouncing a lot.  So, I mean, normally it's good for me, but today I think everything was bad for me because I was just playing with my nerves.  And I have to relax to play better next matches because it's too much tension.
Q. I'm curious were you just nervous because that's how it is in the first round of a Slam or is there any special feeling to go with this tournament in particular for you?
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: First of all, it's Paris.  I'm always nervous in Paris.  I always love to play here and I wish to do great.  And, yeah, I want so much and then sometimes it's hard.  So sometimes it's better, I prefer to think that it's like, I don't know, smaller tournament.
Q. Sveta, you've obviously been around for a long time.  How open does this feel to you compared with in previous years that you've obviously played her?
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I mean, now it's a little bit that it's not clear player who is winning everything like Serena, for example, or somebody who is like playing great like Maria.  But other players are very good.  I mean, Simona is playing great.  Svitolina is playing great.  Who else?  I don't know.  I forgot the girls.
Many players who can play great.  And I think that it's also nice.  Every time you can find something good about it.
Q. Were you happy with how you prepared for this tournament and just your form coming into it?
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: You know, I learn so much over the years.  Sometimes I came here feeling amazing feeling.  I thought I had amazing preparation and I was feeling great, and I was doing horrible.  And some days I come here not expecting anything and was doing good.
So I don't want to value my preparation, but I do feel the ball great and I hit well.  And I feel like I can run and play.  I would say I'm physically great, but today I couldn't breathe because of my nerves so I can't say that.  But, yeah, if I control my nerves, I'll be much better.
Q. What do you think you're going to do before the next match in order to try to control your nervous better?  Because it's so easily said and it's a difficult thing to do before a match.
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Yeah, I have lots of friends here who is giving me so many things what I have to do and why I'm not doing that.  And it's very difficult to explain people who sit there and watch and see everything different picture.  When you never through that, when you're never there.  It's difficult.
I will try to relax but hopefully it's going to get better.  Normally it's better second round, but I don't want to say anything because we'll see.
Q. I wanted to ask you about Petra.  Obviously, she's back and she won today.  How inspiring is it to see what she's gone through and she can come back six months later and win her first match here?
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I don't want to think of what she's gone through.  I see her this morning and I hug her.  I'm like, How are you doing?  How are you?  How was time off?
You know, because in every case you have to see positive things and it's good to rest a little bit home.  So it's great and she's looking happy.  I'm more than happy she's back.  And, yeah, the thing that she's been through it's really horrible.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT