U.S. OPEN
September 3, 2007
Svetlana Kuznetsova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions.   
  
  Q.  I don't think a lot of people made you the favorite coming in.  What did you feel coming in, what do you feel now about your chances?   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  You know, trying just to take it game by game, match by match, not like thinking who says am I favorite or am I not.   
 I'm feeling like getting better every match.  So this is very important for me.  I think this is what about during Grand Slams.  You don't have to play unbelievable in first match, but as long as you go through, as soon as you go better and better, it's very important.   
 I'm very confident about my game and looking forward for my next match.   
  
  Q.  You played the long second game of the second set.  After that you really put together a strong streak.  Did you feel like she got fatigued or did you pick it up after that game?   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  No, not at all.  Not at all.  Like because I think basically about the match, first set I think she been doing so many unforced errors.  I mean, I had to stay focused and don't let her chances like to get in the match because from the start was very windy.  I guess she was very nervous and she didn't know maybe how to control, so she was just missing all over the places.   
 And in the second set, I knew I had to stay tough.  I lost straightaway first game.  I had chances to come back in second game.  I lost it also.  And then I said, Look, you just still have to play the same game to stay tough out there, and this is what I did.   
 I think I just raised my game better in second set, and she was playing better than the first one.   
  
  Q.  The other day Marat talked about being a former champion here.  He said, What happens in the past, who cares.  Do you feel like that or when you walk into this tournament you still have a sense of it's your house, too?   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I mean, Marat is special person.  I have so much respect for him.  I think he's such an unbelievable athlete.  His personality is very special.  In some point I agree what he says, but then in some point I will never forget.  It's not a thing to forget, winning a Grand Slam.  It's not like nobody cares.  At some point, I agree, it's in the past.  But still I been honored to win here.  It's only one Grand Slam I won so far.  Definitely always good memories.  Definitely I come here I think about it because it's not possible without it.  I feel proud for what I've done.   
 But it's in the past.  I'm consistent, I have to do better in the future.   
  
  Q.  All these young girls in this part of the draw, do you remember three years ago when you were one of these young girls?   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  No, I don't take it at that.  I'm just myself now.  I'm experienced.  I'm happy that I've been through what I've been.  It's been some good and bad times.  Just looking forward for each match I have.  I guess for them is great opportunity for them to be there.   
  
  Q.  What do you make of all these girls in the draw that are 18, 19?  Is this an announcement from them they're ready to go deep in majors?   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I don't know.  I just think they have good opportunity.  That's it.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk about your fellow Russian Anna, in your half of the draw, assess her game.   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Anna, I mean, she's tough player.  She plays good.  She's just coming up.  She win two, three tournaments this year.  She's very confident about her game.   
  
  Q.  What do you like about her game?   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I don't know.  I not thinking.  I don't know.  She just good player.  She is tough.   
  
  Q.  What do you know about Szavay?   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  She's tough.  I played her last weekend.  I think it's worked very good for me to play her.  First set in New Haven, I never play her before, so I didn't know what to expect.  I think now I know her game and I can prepare her better.   
 I think it's very tough match.  She's kind of black horse (sic), but I have to be tough out there.  If I play my game, I have good chances.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT