U.S. OPEN
August 28, 2007
Svetlana Kuznetsova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  Is it a hard time to get back to 2004 here and get you back on track at this tournament?  Is it time for you to get back to your championship form here? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I don't know.  I don't want to think about it you know.  It's been a great year for me 2004, and I wish to repeat it.  But I just want to take one match at time and get back in the game every time. 
 I won it when I was not thinking about winning it.  Just playing my game, so basically that's what I want to do. 

 Q.  The hung Hungarian girl you beat in the final in New Haven, how tough was that match going to be if she didn't get hurt? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  You know, it's very hard to say because she got hurt.  But then she could have got tired later on this the match.  I started to find the game kind of because it's very hard to play a player you never played before. 
 She was 6-4 up, but then I started to get my forehand better, you know.  She was getting tired and not moving like so well.  But still, I believe it would go for three sets for sure. 
 It would be pretty tough, you know, but I was feel confident.  I wasn't feeling like I was going to give up at some point.  She would have to play very good to beat me. 

 Q.  At this time of year everybody's a little beat up from eight months of tennis, and not many top players like to play the week before the US Open.  You did.  Did you want the momentum going into this tournament?  Was that it? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Well, you know, the difference is I didn't play any tournaments before.  I played only Toronto, so after Wimbledon I took a break.  I like this break after Wimbledon.  To me it gives you a lot, because for me to play on indoor I have be also very good, focused. 
 It's very he very important to have rest after Wimbledon.  I wish I could have played San Diego, L.A., Toronto, but I didn't play and so for me it was good.  I don't feeling tired or anything. 
 So I have tomorrow off and I had Saturday and Sunday off.  I feel pretty good and confident about it. 

 Q.  That's has Yankees logo; is that correct? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Yes. 

 Q.  You like the Yankees? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I like the hats.  The same question in New Haven.  They kid me about it.  I live in Europe most of the time.  I wish I could follow Yankee and follow this, but I didn't.  I've been once to Blue Jays/Yankee game here in 2005. 
 I don't know the rules of baseball more or less.  I know they hit like this, and if you hit it far you got to go run.  But then another one catches.  I know more or less, but I don't know how to count. 
 Then I met this big player and he goes, Yeah, come to watch the match and we go after for drink or something.  I go, Okay.  What time you want me to come.  He goes, 5:00 p.m.  I said, When it's finish?  He says, 11:00 I said, No way, forget it.  I cannot just sit and watch you hit this ball and you never make it.  So I'm sorry. 

 Q.  Yankee stadium has a grandeur to it, much history, much tradition.  It's a real sort of fixture in New York City and it's part of New York experience to see the Yankees. 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Yeah.  I did and I have this experience and I really respect the game.  I know it's very big in the U.S. and Canada and in Europe it's not that big.  I don't follow it. 
 But I am in love with hats.  I have many hats different design, and like this one an I love New York.  For me, NY is New York, so... 

 Q.  That's what I was going ask you really.  For you to we're that is symbolic, and the Yankees are symbolic in New York.  You have a Grand Slam title in New York.  How much do you really enjoy coming to this city? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  It's just the best.  I love to be here.  Like all week in New Haven I love to be there.  It's so calm come before coming to New York.  It's a great week before New York, and then I think come on New York. 
 It's so cool.  I love the city.  I would love to do some photo shoot or something here just on the streets because I think it's so special.  I just love being here.  It's so crazy.  Just so good rhythm of the city. 

 Q.  Justine said yesterday, you know, I asked a question about the atmosphere here and how some people really thrive and love it and others don't care for it.  She says she doesn't personally really care for it.  It's not her favorite major.  But you sound like you do.  You really like get into this environment. 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I'm really cool.  I mean, I'm different than Justine.  I'm cool with Justine, but we're completely different people, I guess.  She's just different than me, and I love this.  I love the crowd and I love that it's this many people and I think it's like show time. 
 It's exactly this about New York.  I love it.  Yeah, it's sometimes a bit hard to focus, you know.  Yesterday I came out on the court to practice on P-3 and looked to me a bit of zoo because everybody was yelling.  From New Haven I was like Oh, that's too loud.  But in couple days you just get used it and it just great environment. 

 Q.  How it to feel today being back out on court and playing strongly? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  It was great because it was many supporters out there.  It was many people coming, so I was surprise and it's felt great. 

 Q.  Another Russian player by the name of a Sharapova loves this city, and she talks about eating in a different restaurant every night.  Is that you, or do you have a couple go-to places? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Normally me I'm more routine about restaurants.  Yeah, it's good to try different places, but I prefer to go to a couple and just choose them.  Not like going every time a different place.  I don't like that. 

 Q.  What are your go-to places in New York? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Just a few.  Just across the street from the hotel, so it's close.  Some Japanese places for sure.  I love Japanese food.  Normal basic Italian.  Stuff like that. 

 Q.  Just in the last game today, you were running back and forth a lot and doing the splits a lot.  Was that very tiring? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  No.  I mean, I think in the second set I wasn't playing so good.  I was playing plenty of forehands and I was like behind the court.  I was just try to get every ball back because she was missing a lot.  I said, I don't care, I just want to get this game. 
 So I had to slide for the balls.  I think I have to improve it.  I have to really be careful about my feet, but, yeah, that is what happened. 

 Q.  Have you been to the Sanchez cabin in Naples yet? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  No.  I haven't been there yet. 

 Q.  Would it be convenient for you sometimes to be there rather than training? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  So much depends on the schedule.  But, yeah, if I would like -- I would have to play Indian Wells, Miami and then I have to play Charleston and don't play Amelia.  I can do probably.  I got to think about it. 

 Q.  Would there be enough players to hit there with you? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I have my hitting partner with me normally, so if I go there I'm fine. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT