PILOT PEN TENNIS PRESENTED BY SCHICK
August 23, 2007
Svetlana Kuznetsova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  Texting everyone to tell them you won again? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Excuse me? 

 Q.  Texting everyone to tell them you won again? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  No.  Some girl is asking me for practice in the US Open and I said I cannot do it right now.  I got take care of here. 

 Q.  Do you like matches like this, or would you rather have played at least to two sets? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Well, in some point it was good to keep energy, but then I enjoy to play full matches.  Today it was pretty hot.  It was pretty weird.  It was very difficult to start on the match, and as soon as I start rolling it stops. 
 So I do this huge effort to start and then it stops and it was kind of weird.  But still I'm happy.  I cannot change it.  I got take it the way it is.  I think I played pretty well in the end. 

 Q.  A Yankee hat. 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Oh, yeah.  Well, a different one today. 

 Q.  Is this a strange tournament, in that injuries which players might normally play through they're not going to play through in this tournament because of the US Open next week? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Yeah.  It affects a lot definitely.  It affects a lot having the US Open next week.  You try to reserve yourself a lot and stuff like that.  But I think I'm completely opposite.  I try to play matches.  For me the more matches I get the better here. 

 Q.  Did you feel any retribution after when you played Schiavone in Amelia Island when you retired and she was very boastful and today you got the win over her? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I won Miami and afterwards I was just very tired.  I had too many matches, and changing from hard to clay one week to another it's difficult. 
 Now I just feel mature and I know the game of her.  I think more on the court.  I try to play more uncomfortable game instead of just hitting in the ball. 

 Q.  Are you getting in as much tennis as you wanted to this week? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Yesterday I had three setter match so it was good to me.  Maybe I haven't played my best, but it's good to have tennis matches and to come from worse to better.  Today it's sad but it was pretty good. 

 Q.  What is it like for you to have a win over Schiavone by retirement when you had to retire by injury and she didn't act so Kosher, I guess? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Well, you know, I was asking her, you know, you're still moving pretty well today.  I know her movement as well as her strength in the game, but still she was running well.  She goes, Yeah, but I'm not sure.  My leg is hurting a few days. 
 Well, I cannot do anything about it.  But for me it was also important match today because for Fed Cup after the finals we play after the US Open.  I was focused and I wanted to play well and I think I did. 

 Q.  What are your thoughts on your next match? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I play Elena, right?  She won.  I play her here last year in quarters I think and we had three setter.  I always enjoy playing her.  I know her game pretty well, as she does mine.  It's always interesting. 
 I think I have better record, but still, you know, it's always good to play your countrywoman and it great to have two Russians in the semifinal. 

 Q.  Whether you win or lose here in this next match do you think you're prepared for the US Open? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Well, I guess it's too far to start talking about US Open.  You know, semifinal, I think I have pretty good chances.  I just going to focus on here. 
 I know the New York is coming next week, but still I want to take it day by day.  I still hope to win tomorrow and have one more match.  But still going to give my best and not going think the way I am now for the Open. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT