ROGERS CUP PRESENTED BY AMERICAN EXPRESS
August 16, 2007
Svetlana Kuznetsova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Svetlana, please.   
  
  Q.  Svetlana, two matches on hard court now.  Are you feeling comfortable yet?   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Yeah, I started feeling much better today.  I think it was much more consistent match.  You know, last match I played the day before yesterday I played very good first set, but considered I had ups and downs because I couldn't get my concentration together.  But after a long break, I think it's more or less okay.   
 And today I think I was focused all the match 100%, so I'm really happy with performance and looking forward to tomorrow's match.   
  
  Q.  You've been pretty consistent this year.  A lot of finals, but you haven't won a title yet.  Is that something that's on your mind?   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I guess it's extra motivation for me.  You know, I get everything, but not quite together yet.  Still I'm doing very good tennis, I'm playing good.  I feel comfortable on the court.  I feel I am improving.  So definitely I think the good things are still to come.   
  
  Q.  What do you think is missing?   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Just a little bit more determination, you know, in important moments, you know.  Just to have this motivation, you know, to win important matches, important moments, you know.  A little bit, not believe, I do believe enough to myself, but just turn this point a little bit, you know.   
  
  Q.  On the other hand, you've had some success against players that are ranked No. 1 in the world, and I think you've won four matches against players that have held that ranking.  How do you explain that?  Do you go into those matches a little more loose and confident?   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  No, not at all, not at all.  I beat Amélie like many times, like three times something.  You know, like they're No. 1, but I'm number 5, 4, 3, whatever I am.  It's not that big difference.  You know, I'm not like around 20 so.  It's nothing.  I still have pressure on because I want to win.  And every match I go to play I want to win.  So, yeah.  It's just a reality.  I think I want to be there one day, and I have to beat this players.   
  
  Q.  You've had a little bit of success against Justine as well.  What would you attribute that to?   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  A little bit?  I have like 14-2.  But last time I won, so it's pretty good for me.   
 No, I played unbelievable match against her in Berlin.  And she's an amazing player.  She's the best for the moment, I think, in the tennis.  And I really have respect for her game.  But I really enjoy playing against her, you know.  She's extremely tough, and it's always a big challenge to play her.   
  
  Q.  Are you thinking about going back to the corn rows at all that you had at Wimbledon?   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  It's all in secret.  I have some still opinions in my hair, but that's all for the future.   
  
  Q.  Are you going to have something for the US Open, something different?   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  No, not for the US Open.  I'm going to stay with this hair for quite a bit.  And when I have a little bit more free time, I'll have to figure out.  I don't want to change too quick, I'll run out of ideas.   
  
  Q.  You have to think about it?   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Yeah, I want to do something, but I want to wait a little bit.   
  
  Q.  A lot of players have been sick the last few weeks.  When something like that is going around the locker room, are you extra careful?   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Not really, you know.  I'm not kind of person who goes like that (imitating).  I'm just whatever it goes, you know.  If something meant to be, it's going to happen.  But then I think I have very good vitamins, I'm taking vitamins.  So I have very good immunity, I hope, which it shouldn't get to me.  I've been sick in January, but hopefully usually, I'm good with it.  I don't get sick often.  But you never know.   
  
  Q.  I spoke to Rosanna De Los Rios at the French Open, and she said sometimes you hit with her daughter Anna.  Have you hit with Tina ever?   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  No, no.  Tina, she's scared of me, you know.  She looks at me, and she goes like, Oh.  You see how she looks at me right now?  Now she's like what the hell you talking about.   
  
  Q.  She's a bit older?   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I don't know.  She never comes to me, never talks to me, you know.   
  
  Q.  Do you play tennis (talking to child)?   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  She does, she does.  She's got new job she does with Isabel.  She takes players to press, it's much better than hitting this ball all day long, yeah (smiling).   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT