INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA (WOMEN)
May 20, 2007
Svetlana Kuznetsova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  (From Italian)  You went four times in a final and you lost the four finals, why?   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Well, I don't know.  It's just about finals, I guess, because I play so good game before it and when I come to the final I don't play so well, I guess.   
 It's something mentally which I have to work on, but I'm definitely sure I have the game.  I mean, I didn't use my chances in the first set.  I had so many easy balls to finish and I didn't do that.   
 Second set I was a little bit already tired.  It's not easy to play three weeks in a row.  I played good tennis.  I mean, I'm sad about the finals, but I'm there and I know I can play much better than I did today.  I prove it in other matches.  I just have to prove it in finals.   
 It's still important to get there, but it's very bad to lose it.  I know I can improve it so it's the most important thing for me.   
  
  Q.  It wasn't a question of needing to break serve out there, it was a question of needing to hold serve, wasn't it?   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Yeah.  She been serving not so good and I had some easy balls.  But then when I serving she was returning pretty well.  But I haven't been doing much with the serve, and I wanted to put serve harder and harder, and it was more risky and risky.   
  
  Q.  Not to be impolite, but you had so many balls that just seemed like gimmes if you hit them over.  Did something cramp up in your mind?   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  No.  I just want to force it too much instead of going to the net and volleying.  I mean, I had more balls to attack than the balls to defend in first set.   
 But then it changed a little bit the game, and that's what I said.  I had so many opportunity in first set.  I didn't use them.  If use at least 50% of them, the match would be completely different.   
  
  Q.  Isn't that also because she is very quick on the court so you have to try to hit the ball maybe taking some risk, otherwise the ball will come back?   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Yeah, this is the thing.  I was afraid of -- I was thinking I didn't want the ball come back sometimes, but I don't think about it that it not going to hurt me because she's in defense position.   
 If I focus well and I just have to play one more shot.  She makes you play one more shot, and I had to be more focus and more consistent.   
 I mean, when you're not at your best fresh level, best fitness condition, it's hard because you going to finish the rallies faster.   
  
  Q.  What will you do between now and Roland Garros?   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I fly tonight to Barcelona, so I will rest a few days and train and then probably go to the French.   
  
  Q.  The fact that you have tape on your arm was a problem for you, or not?   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  No, no, not at all.  The thing was like in the start of the tournament I was going to pull out because my body was so weak.  I was hurt everywhere.  It was all together.   
 But match by match I see players pulling out and I say, Okay.  I'll try and hang in, because for the tournament it will be very difficult everybody pulling out.   
 So I played match by match, and some matches it was hurting a lot.  But as match was going by and next round it was going better and better.   
 On level of pain, today was almost the best day, yesterday and today.   
  
  Q.  What exactly is the problem with the arm?   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I don't know.  Just hurting.  Yeah, I mean the physios did very good job here, because I been having treatment for a while every day and I didn't recover, and so it was very important for me.   
  
  Q.  Has this week still been perfect preparation for the French, though?   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Yeah, definitely.  I mean, I still improve myself, because every day -- I mean I couldn't say I was going there very positive with so many energy.  I was just playing my game and I was winning the matches in two sets.   
 I think this is about getting yourself better, even when you're tired and stuff.  You just go through the matches and you just improve.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT