INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA (WOMEN)
May 19, 2007
Svetlana Kuznetsova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  Two finals in a row and against a Serbian player.  How do you like this? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Well, they're pretty different players, you know.  Jelena plays different pace than Ana.  And I think this is my third straight week of playing pretty good tennis, and it's very good for me. 
 Lots of consistency.  I'm a little bit tired, yeah, like everybody would have been.  But I guess playing with Ana I was more tired because it was my third match in two days and it was tough. 
 Now I feel pretty good and I'm looking forward to it.  It's going to be a very interesting match. 

 Q.  Just one week before the French you think you play your best on clay? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Yeah, this year I can see how I can hurt other players a lot on clay court, which I can play with lot of spin.  And I really enjoy my game and I really understand the game more this year, so we are looking forward for French. 
 It's my favorite tournament, so it's always nice to be there. 

 Q.  You said it's your favorite tournament, Roland Garros?  More than the US Open that you won? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  You know, it's always special.  It's one of my favorites, but French is in Europe.  I love United States of America.  I love being there.  I love the culture, especially the music culture. 
 But being in the French is something more special, maybe more special because I have not win it.  I've been so close so many times, and it's looking like a goal for me to one day do well there. 
 But I cannot say that I love one more than the other.  They're very special both to me. 

 Q.  What kind of music do you listen to? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Everybody knows I think:  Hip hop, R & B, so it's more rappy a little bit.  So I mean, everything but this is my favorite stuff, so I love being in the United States, you know the style of rappers.  But my biggest passion is tennis and then after it's tennis. 

 Q.  Do you listen to music before the match? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Yeah.  Before sleep, before the match, in the morning.  Every time I can. 

 Q.  (From Italian) You said that you love Rome and you like the city a lot.  Did you have the occasion to visit Rome and to feel the Italian crowd?  And do you know that the Italians like Russians very much?  And did you go to a Russian restaurant in Rome? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  When I'm in Rome I prefer eat Italian food.  It's very good.  So Russian food I can eat in Russia.  I have not been in Russian restaurant in Rome.  I didn't even ask if one exist.  I think one exist. 

 Q.  There is one. 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  But I never been to this.  But normally in Russia it's the best food.  Russian restaurants in other country normally they are okay, but not so good. 
 There is one restaurant in Barcelona.  There is also one in Paris.  I've been had both of them.  I love shopping in Roma, but I have not had so much time.  I came straight up after the final and just been shopping maybe an hour all the week. 
 But I love Italy.  There is few cities I would love to visit, but I guess it's going to be after I quit playing tennis and stop traveling so much. 

 Q.  (From Italian) Did you expect a match which was rather easy, or did you expect a tougher match? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Always I try to expect tough match because if the match after comes easy it's always better, you know.  And I knew that -- I mean Daniela, she's playing much better than she been in the past year.  I lost to her in Indian Wells. 
 I know that I'm better on clay court definitely.  And now I just come for every match pretty relax, because I know if I play good game it's all in my hands.  So this is what I ask for myself:  To do my best. 

 Q.  The best improvements of Kuznetsova have been in psychologist side, in movement, in tactics?  Where do you think you are improved the most? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I think really analyzing myself and accepting myself the way I am.  Not making myself like other people or like other good or great players.  Just being myself and really understand the game, what I'm doing on the court. 
 Really analyzing the opponent and analyzing my shots, what hurts other opponents.  You know, more analyzing.  And definitely this is also psychological things.  A little bit to analyze things and to be calm and to be, you know, to grow a little bit, to get mature. 
 Because I started when he was 17 on the tour, so everything comes early and it's pretty hard.  So I been doing pretty well the last days. 

 Q.  Following your question, if a person help you the most was Arantxa Sanchez Vicario, Emilio, about improvement? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  My coach. 

 Q.  Your coach? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I mean Arantxa and Emilio help me very much.  I talk to them they have very often.  It was always one moment in my life I was looking to other people to help me, but then it's come the moment that I understood nobody can help me but me. 
 So I'm on the court and nobody else depends on me.  I don't think about nothing else.  I have ability to do everything and really believe in myself.  It really helps a lot.  And not looking for help, but to help myself. 

 Q.  (From Italian) Do you have a goal for this year in your career? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  This year? 

 Q.  Yeah. 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Well, I prefer not to put the goals because -- definitely there is some goals.  But first of all, I don't want to talk about them, and then secondly, I don't think about them. 
 Because I come in the tournament and it's not depends only on me.  I still know that it's a lot in my hands, but depends on the draw and depends some on the luck. 
 But for me it's important to do what I am doing, to go on the court and feel sure in myself to know what I'm doing.  So if I have this, I think one day sooner or later I going to grow in my game and be higher in ranking, and well, and be playing better game. 

 Q.  Whatever happen tomorrow in the final, do you already know what you are going to do next week to prepare for the French? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  My coach does.  You know, definitely I going to go to Barcelona.  I going to get treatment and recover my body.  But I feel pretty well.  I just think I got to work a little bit of everything:  A little bit fitness and a little bit of my game. 
 But I think I have the game on the clay and I show it past three weeks.  It's been amazing.  If I would go to the clay court season and somebody would ask me, Would you do semifinal and final?  I would say, Well, it would be great, you know.  Not like, No, but like, It would be great. 
 So I don't know what's going to happen.  I'm still playing good game, and just the same thing for tomorrow.  I just want to go out there and play. 

 Q.  You know Jelena's game? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Good enough.  Good enough.  I played her.  For me it's a little bit tough to play the player first time, because I played her at the US Open.  I think I didn't play so well, but she surprised me a little bit with her game. 
 I played her like two, three years before in juniors, but then I played her twice in indoors and I won both times.  I think I prepared better my strategy. 
 But tomorrow is going to be tough match.  She been playing very well past weeks.  She lose both times to Justine, so it's going to be very hard.  But still I think I have the game to win or just to do the match, you know. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT