MEDIBANK INTERNATIONAL
January 9, 2007
Svetlana Kuznetsova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
  Q.  Could you give us a background how long you've had this for?  
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Well, I think I flew to Hong Kong on the 1st  of January, and since I have arrived I've been feeling pretty -- I mean, it's  cold in there and I stayed away next day, then the next day I felt bad and I  was jet lagged and it was tough, everything.  I think I get sick over the week, and it's really bad, like second,  third day. I'm looking forward to  getting better and hopefully prepare well for Australia.  
  
  Q.  Is it just breathing and speaking?  Do you have any aches and pains?  
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: No, I am good with my body, I prepared  well. This really disappoints me a  lot. I cannot do everything well, but I  just need to stop in the middle of the round to breathe, and my nose close and  I hear everything ding-dinging in my ears.  The blood is going up and I can't really focus with everything else.  
  
  Q.  What are the medical staff telling you about your chances of playing in Melbourne?  How long have you got to recover?  
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Well, actually they were telling me -- I was  asking, today was my concern if I can go on the court today or either I pull  out before the match. They said,  "How do you feel?" I felt  better today, but I know I cannot push my body to the max because otherwise  next week is going to be horrible. I did  my best.   
 I did not play for three days and I  felt more or less good, but I just -- it's difficult when you cannot  breathe. You cannot play around it. This is my advantage over other players; I  can move well, I can play long rallies, but I'm not so, for example, Maria. So doctors said just take your time. Nobody take responsibility to tell you how  long it will take.  
  
  Q.  So you don't know?  
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: No, I'm taking antibiotics which makes me  feel a little worse -- well, more relaxed, and yeah, I don't know.  
  
  Q.  Svetlana, if you don't feel better by next week, will you play the  Australian Open anyway, or will you pull out to look after your health for  later in the year?  
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Well, I feel better every day. Yesterday I felt ridiculous. Today I felt better so I decided to try.   
 Definitely I will play Australian  Open. If I feel a bit like this I will  push myself and maybe I will have to retire again. I am really motivated to play. If I am the same way as I am today, I won't. But if I get better, I think I should. It's impossible I stay like this one more  week. It's not that serious for me.  
  
  Q.  So you've had it for about a week now?  
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: No, three, four days really bad. Flying from Hong Kong here, flew over the night, and it  was like the worst flight of my life.  
   
  End  of FastScripts…  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT