SONY ERICSSON CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 9, 2006
Svetlana Kuznetsova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Well, if I would know, I wouldn't do so.  I guess I was just nervous.  I couldn't play.  I don't know how it happened.  It's just I was watching 15 minutes of the match, it was pretty ridiculous out there.  I don't remember much about it because I was not there, I think. 
 It's not much to say about it, because I don't really know what happened. 

 Q.  Svetlana, just a question about Amelie Mauresmo she's your partner in doubles.  Just a question about her as a person, what do you like to play with Amelie, what do you like to get along with her? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I don't know.  We're always joking around.  I think it's always fun because we talk about so many things, and, I don't know, she's just a nice person and it's always a nice atmosphere around. 

 Q.  If I remember well, last year in Wimbledon, it was very good atmosphere, very funny on the court.  Is it difficult to find this kind of connection with other players? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Well, there are players you get along with better or worse.  And it's not common very often that she's Russian.  I feel good with her as with other players.  It's something special.  We have fun on the court and I think this is very important. 

 Q.  You've tried to be human, it hasn't been possible.  You still have hopes to win Sharapova, I guess.  You've won her sometimes this year. 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  It has been incredible.  I don't know what's happened today.  I need to keep positive for tomorrow, but it's not easy after a match like today's.  I can also think I haven't played today and hope to play better tomorrow, but she's an excellent -- she's excellently fit.  She hasn't lost a match still.  It will all depend on my serve, if I can put pressure on her I will have chances, but I need to give my best. 

 Q.  Today, a crucial key beginning of match, you've made a few aces, you've had double fault, what's happened?  It's affected you and what? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  The beginning was hard and tough, but I have it hard to play at night.  When it's difficult, I don't get used to this schedule, this timetable.  Maybe I'm nervous, many things.  I was 2-Love and then she was 3-Love and then I start thinking negative. 

 Q.  This was a round robin, and you were still active.  Right in an interview you said you need to make up your mind when you're defeated and you need to overcome for the next day. 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Tomorrow we have a duel, a Russian duel.  I hope to be at my best and for sure I will try, hope not to be paralyzed as today. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT