INTERNAZIONALI D'ITALIA
May 19, 2006
Svetlana Kuznetsova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q.  What was the big problem, the main problem that you had during the game?   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I guess all was a problem today (smiling).   
 I don't know.  I never -- I didn't -- I played this court last year in the match I lost, and definitely it was in my mind that it was --  I don't feel comfortable.  Like, I need one match, one or two matches, to get used to playing this court.  I don't know.  Sometimes I have my forehand, and I don't see the distance well in this forehand.  Sometimes it goes like three meters out, and I'm like I never hit like this, you know.  So I did lots of mistakes.  I had lots of ups and downs.   
 But the court was -- the bounce was really strange.  I couldn't get used to it, but also she was mixing up the distance with the ball so much.  Like sometimes -- usually when we play, we hit the ball, we hit it with a spin.  Sometimes the ball was easy just like on my racquet, and I just didn't move my feet to it, you know.   
 So I had to stay focused.  I could have win easier because I was 4-1 up in the second.  I just lost concentration and then I get disappointed with myself and then I cannot think properly when I play.   
 So in the third set I took a break.  I start well.  I was 2-Love.  Then I was Love-30.  I start like if I just take her as a player, like I don't look whatever, I just concentrate on my game, I play much better.  But if I get into this, like, low, dropshot, I start to do the same thing, it's confuse me so much.  So I just had to stay in the game all the time, and definitely I was not playing my best, but I am very happy to pull it through.   
 But definitely if I want to have some chances tomorrow, I got to play much better.  But, I mean, all credit to her.  For her level, I think she played very good match.  She mixed up very well the speed and the length of the ball.  Yeah, pretty smart game.   
  Q.  Of course you could have played better, but are you surprised of the quality of this girl that nobody really knew til last week almost?  I mean, she was 168, 133 and so on.   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  You know, when I saw her first time in the locker room, I recognize her because I played Under-16s.  She's my age.  I played 14s, 16s with her.  I think maybe she played for Swiss team or something because her face looks familiar but nothing seems like Italian for me with her, you know.   
 And then when I was going to play this match, everybody say, Who you play.   
 I said, Italian girl.   
 Everybody say, Is the one who winning easy against everybody?   
 I say, Yeah.   
 They say, Oh, easy.   
 I said, No, no.  I knew it's not going to be easy completely.  It's very hard mentally to play with a player who you know that you have to beat, that you play against all the stadium, and then you play on a court that you don't really comfortable on.   
 So it was pretty -- lots of points against me.  I knew it was gonna be hard match, but I didn't know what to expect because I never played her.  I don't know how to play her.  Like, you know, you come into the court knowing that surprise expecting you there, but you don't know what to do.   
 And if I would play continuously good level, I would finish this match quicker.  But as I had so many ups and downs, it was like this.   
  Q.  You say playing "against the stadium."  Is there a feeling out there that you're in the enemy camp?   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  You know, sometimes it just disturbs you a little bit because you just throw the ball and somebody yells something, you know.  I cannot say I speak Italian, but I get something.  I mean, I get a little bit frustrated.   
 But it's also push me more, you know.  Like I wanted it more badly.  Of course I knew it.  Like she has no pressure, she just has playing for fun.  I have all the pressure and I fighting against everybody, especially I was fighting against me also sometimes.   
 So, yeah, sometimes it was really tough.  When you are down, you know, sometimes the public is really helping you when they go with you.  But when they go against you, it even pushes you more down.  So I really had to stay good with myself today.   
  Q.  Will you hear the clapping in your sleep, do you suppose?  All the clapping for her, when they tried to pep her up?   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Yeah, but like when I'm so concentrate on the game, I don't hear really the public so much.  Like, I mean, you play US Open final and you play with 25,000 people or whatever, and you don't feel it.  You don't -- like if you play concentrate, you don't put much attention.  You have lots of adrenaline because you know they are there, but you don't put so much attention.   
 But definitely when they go only for her, it makes big difference (smiling).   
  Q.  Do you think she has the quality to become a top 10 player, or is too early to say something like that?  Because Italy never had, and so we would of course be very much happy about it.   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  First of all, like I never want to say "never" in the life because I think everything is possible.  If you want it really badly, you can do whatever you want.  I really believe in it.  This is how it worked with me.  Lots of people tell me, You never be in top 50.  Lots of people told me.  I just been working and working, you know.   
 I mean, definitely she has the touch.  She's smart.  She can see the court.  But she has to work on lots of things.   
 Then it was also like if you see sometimes the people, they play very well at home with crowd and everybody put attention and you are so happy to play at home and it's so much for you, and then you go and you travel, you have to keep this consistency every week.  This is really where you have to give it there.  It's not many people can do this, but you never know.   
  Q.  I have a question which has nothing to do with the match.   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Go ahead.   
  Q.  In Paris they are going to play on the first Sunday.  Are you okay with this?   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I am playing on the first Sunday, or I may be?   
  Q.  No.  If they ask you to play on the first Sunday, do you think it's a good idea to change?   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I think I have no problems to play.  I am going on Thursday.  I am going earlier in case I play Sunday because it's very important.  French Open, it's like very important event.  It's Grand Slam.  You try to come earlier and prepare well.   
 But like I think the tough thing is that you play -- if you play on Sunday, then I think there is two days you don't play.  So this is pretty hard one.  But, I mean, if I have to do it, I got to do it.   
  Q.  One more question about Oprandi.  Do you think she has better forehand or backhand, and apart from dropshot, what is her strength?   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  (Smiling).  Okay, I think definitely she has better forehand, but the backhand has more like stability.  And I think the touch is her strength, be able to see well the court, to move good the hand, you know.  Because when she really move the wrist, the ball bounce really well.  So you got to really work, to work with your feet to get into it.  This is, I think, her main things.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT