NASDAQ-100 OPEN
April 1, 2006
Svetlana Kuznetsova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   LARRY SCOTT:  Before the winner's press conference starts, good afternoon, everybody.  We want to give a short presentation in recognition of all that the media does to support the Sony Ericsson WTA Tour throughout the year, as well as during this tournament. 
 In addition to the player awards that we had this year, every year we honor the media with the Ted Tingling Media Excellence Award.  This award, as you know, was named after Ted since 1991, recognizing excellence in tennis reporting.  As you all know, Ted had an enormous impact on women's tennis.  No one was more passionate about the game in women's tennis than him, and his influence extended to encouraging many other people to follow the sport. 
 This year, I am pleased to present this award to two people, to Lisa Dillman and Barry Flatman.  Lisa is not here, but we're thrilled that Barry is here.  Barry, please come up (applause). 
 From our champion. 
 (Svetlana Kuznetsova hands trophy to Barry Flatman). 
 BARRY FLATMAN:  Thank you very much. 
 Thank you very much, Larry.  This is a true honor.  I have to say that I'm old enough to remember dear old Ted, wandering around as he did, pointing out our mistakes as he did, but he was a great person. 
 It's an honor to receive his award, so thank you very much (applause). 

 Q.  Svetlana, you had an extremely difficult draw here the last 11 days, and you were fortunate to get a walkover from one of the players, but still five players in the top 50.  Do you feel like playing all those tough matches helped you get ready for a difficult final? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Yeah, definitely.  Lately, if I see my year, I been prepared so well.  I worked so hard in preseason and coming to all these events, I played Dubai, I played Doha.  I had Dubai and Doha, also the hardest draw was possible.  I had Amelie, I had Martina, I had Amelie again, and I had Justine.  I had all the time tough draw, you know, and I had to play very well to go through this one. 
 Yeah, I mean, the match against Hingis, it was the key for me I guess because I had matchpoints against.  I was watching the DVD, and I had this volley which I usually would miss, and I didn't do that.  I mean, it was a key, you know, to get more confidence and each match to get more and more.  Of course the match of Patty, like she withdrew, help me little bit.  Next day to play after three-setter, it would be tough.  But, still, I was well-prepared, I was fit to play. 
 Today was tough match.  I think I held it well. 
 Q.  You mentioned confidence.  It seemed that with every shot that she missed, with every big forehand you made, you seemed to gain that confidence.  Can you talk a little bit about that. 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Yeah, the game, what I feel now on the court when I play, I feel pretty confident, you know, because I just -- before, I think I was trying to hit the ball overhard (sic), you know.  Now I'm just playing like half of my power and the ball seems to go pretty fast, so I am pretty excited about that. 
 I am just -- sometimes I think why I have to hit it hard, so I just put less pressure on me and I put the ball back and it's pretty hard to opponent to play. 
 I give lots of spin to the ball so it's bounce pretty high and it's hard to hit it back to me.  For sure it's very hard to give Maria shots back.  When I see she miss, it gives me more motivation to put more balls back.  I can defend well, and I can hit my forehand pretty hard enough. 
 Q.  5-3 in the first set, it looked like you were going to let her back in, played a loose game there.  Were you concerned at that point that you better tighten it up or else it was going to get away from you? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I mean, it was tough.  But this is what I didn't want to happen to me.  I didn't want to stop in the match and think, "What's gonna happen?"  No, it's already past.  The moment, it's over.  I don't have to concentrate it, I don't have to let myself miss a forehand again and just keep going. 
 I knew I broke her and I broke her again, and I was wanted just to stay every ball in the match and give my best and see what I can have out there. 
 Q.  Can you tell that she was getting frustrated at not being able to make certain shots? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I mean, I'm not -- I was not trying to look at her, you know.  Whatever, I mean -- I'm feeling the game, I feel that she doesn't make so many shots, she cannot make me winners because I move pretty well and I put the ball pretty long back.  So I was happy with that. 
 I could make my return pretty long enough so she cannot attack me, and then I can attack her.  This is what definitely she doesn't like. 
 So I was concerned about making my game out of hers. 
 Q.  It looked like the crowd was very supportive of you.  Can you talk about the atmosphere of the match. 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I mean, for me, it's a bit unusual, you know, you play Maria and you have crowd behind you.  Of course I was trying to get best of it, you know.  I was trying just to focus and to give it to me more energy. 
 But, I mean, whatever crowd feels, it's big pleasure to play here in NASDAQ.  Of course I felt amazing that crowd goes with me. 
 Q.  Why do you think they were?  Why do you think the crowd was so firmly in your corner? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I don't want to get into that (smiling).  I mean, I guess I played good match against Martina, and I played very good strokes against Amelie (smiling). 
 I guess I have not -- I heard a lot about match in semifinals.  This is what everybody want to hear (laughter).  I didn't -- I cannot say anything about that because I was just having my Japanese night and I didn't watch anything. 
 Q.  You went swimming, right? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I didn't go to swimming pool because it was too cold.  I don't know.  I guess just Tatiana had a bad injury, and I guess she was fighting very hard, and I hope she recovers well.  I guess public wanted her to make it through because she was a big fighter on the court. 
 Q.  You had a headache in the second set?  What do you think caused that?  Did it have anything to do with that plane circling and circling and circling? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  (Laughing).  This is a good one. 
 I saw -- I was playing the first set and this flight was pretty annoying, you know.  But what I wanted, just to be there and to give my best.  I knew if I would think about flights, about birds - when I was kid, I was thinking about birds and I never won a match.  I knew I got to go and I got to play. 
 I heard that Maria didn't like it and I didn't want to get into it, you know.  I also didn't.  Then umpire said I think after the first set that the flight gonna stop.  I didn't understand anything what she was saying.  I said, "Excuse me, can you repeat to me."  She just said it was gonna be over, the flight.  So I was happy about this. 
 But I was just trying to get myself not to lose my concentration. 
 Q.  You were living in Spain a long time.  Do you know Spanish? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Yes. 
 Q.  That's why many people like you, you know. 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Yeah, you know, I mean, I heard lots of people talk that I yell "Vamos" instead of whatever in Russian.  You know, I just yell whatever I feel.  I can yell both languages, even English.  I don't consider me living in Spain.  I train in Spain, and I live in Russia.  I love Russia.  But also I have people treating me very well in Spain.  I'm very happy to train there.  But if I would have chance to train in Russia, I also would stay. 
 Q.  Championship point, you're ready to serve, crowd is cheering.  How did you feel?  It has been a while since you were in that situation. 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  You know what I'm thinking now about crowd, about championship point, about serving, I finish the US Open also with an ace from second serve.  Today I think somebody told me I also finish the match with an ace, but I didn't realize it.  I was just playing one more point.  I knew it was important.  I wanted to take my time before the serve to focus on the movement because I change my serve in the preseason.  So every time I serve, I have to be very focused on my movements. 
 I was just trying to focus on next point. 
 Q.  What did you change in your serve? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Uhm, how explain with English.  I just put my back leg back and then I come together, you know, so I can push off and jump.  But I still have lots of things to change in this serve.  I do it slowly. 
 Q.  What about your feelings here, your nerves before the match?  How were you feeling? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I been nervous, because I'm not -- but I was pretty much better than I felt like before finals, like before US Open.  I mean, US Open is bigger but I was much more nervous. 
 Here, I was -- I knew I just gonna go out there and I just gonna do to my best.  If I won't be able to attack, I would go run behind, or I can and defend.  Whatever was happening to me today, it was okay.  I just wanted to be there and just to give my best and I wanted this trophy badly. 
 Q.  Considering the ups and downs you had, what you went through at the end of last year, are you surprised you won a tournament of this magnitude so quickly? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  No, I'm not.  I would say maybe one year yes, but no, I'm not.  I put in lots of work in December, I had one month and a half of I been on the courts day and night.  I been on my own, I was thinking what I want to do.  Then I started to look at the people who play, and people have been out from the tour and they come back and they win many tournaments, and I think I can do it, too. 
 I was just working with psychologists, I was working on myself, with many doctors, with people.  I was just playing my matches, and I see if I play the right game I can make it.  I'm just very excited about that.  I hope to improve every match in more tournaments. 
 Q.  You had at the French last year two matchpoints on Henin-Hardenne.  You didn't get them.  Did that weigh on you for a long time? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  It was hard because it didn't happen to me first time.  I had the same thing the year before against Myskina.  I had also two matchpoints and she won the trophy.  Next year I come back and I have Henin and I again have two matchpoints and I miss like this my forehand, and again she is in the final.  I lost to good players and I had to take positive out of this. 
 No, I don't think it would -- it took me out.  I had many things what happened to me in 2004.  But I don't think either of them let me down.  I just lost my (rhythm?), I guess, my confidence.  Then I start losing.  I get injuries.  Doctors wanted to make me surgery of my shoulder.  I had big problems before US Open on my back.  I mean, everything a little bit, it just changed my way. 
 Q.  This is a very emotional victory for you, after two years building on the US Open.  A lot of players would take time off and savor the moment and enjoy it, but you are signed in to play Amelia Island.  Why do you want to go play immediately again? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Well, I didn't plan like to win this tournament and then to go.  But I did it after US Open, after I won, and I always gonna be the same.  If I commit myself to do one thing, I gonna do it. 
 Now I'm not tired.  I mean, I didn't play so many matches.  Yeah, it's tournament, seven matches, but it's two weeks.  I had one day singles, one day doubles.  When I practice in the club, I practice three, four hours a day and I spend less time than this.  Of course it was more energy and then nerves.  But I guess I get tomorrow day off and then I gonna start training on the green clay. 
 I think it's possible to make everything.  I'm just enjoying my winning stroke (sic), why wouldn't I keep playing?  I'm happy, I'm looking forward.  I never play this tournament so I'm very excited to go there. 
 Q.  Do you think the best of you is to come?  Do you think we've seen the best of you, or the best of you is in the future? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  No, if I would think so, I would quit tennis right now.  No, no way. 
 I'm very happy about that I am playing.  Even today's match, I don't think I played very good match at all.  I could have played so much more inside of court, I could have make -- I could have hit my ball much longer and move her more around.  I see so many possibilities to work on. 
 So I just hope I can make myself work harder and to spend more time on court working on my strokes and during my matches and improve. 
 Q.  Do you do any bicycling now, or are you sick of it? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I was talking to Amelie maybe to go bike in December, but not really enjoying the bike, you know.  I find it's boring.  I don't know.  I need just some sport, to play some game, to be competitive, you know, not against the watch.  I just want to compete with somebody like play the game or something.  No, I'm not doing bike at all. 
 Q.  Looking at the rest of the year, which of the Grand Slam tournaments do you think offers you the best chance of winning one? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I don't know.  I guess my dream would always be Roland Garros.  I won the Open.  I love Australian Open, I love Wimbledon, but Roland Garros especially, it's Paris.  It's, I don't know, city of love.  It's very nice place to be.  I hope one day I can make it. 
 Q.  You are one year older than Maria, but not a lot older.  When is the first time you became aware of her? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  You know, now in tennis, you know, I feel very old, you know.  I am 20.  Really.  I am 20 and I feel so bad saying I'm old but, you know, now I don't want to think about this.  Just everybody who goes out there is professional tour and everybody playing the same levels, whoever age is. 
 Q.  Do you remember Maria, or did you know her only after you turned pro? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  You know, first time I saw Maria, now I remember it pretty well because it was here, it was in Juniors Orange Bowl.  I played - in Juniors I was not so good.  Under-16, under-18.  Maria was not in Russia and she was in States, no.  I came to play Orange Bowl.  I think I made final this year, I lost to Zvonareva. 
 One day I heard just somebody talk so much about Maria Sharapova, new Russian.  I went just to see a few games and I saw her playing.  This was first time I saw her. 
 Q.  Maria continues to grow.  She's 6'2" now.  Do you think this is affecting her motion on the court? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Maybe it's -- I don't know.  I didn't talk to her ever about this or to her doctors. 
 Q.  You see her on the court. 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  It helps her to serve better also.  If I would have chair under my leg, I would serve like 100 kilometers more stronger.  But definitely it has some advantages and some disadvantage. 
 She's not great movement on the court but she has very long hands, arms, and it helps her to play the ball very flat.  The fast surface suits her a lot, like grass court and indoors.  It suits her game.  Clay, she's not gonna be the favorite one to play, but what everybody has. 
 Q.  Maria gets so much attention.  Do you feel you're in her shadow?  You've won the same number of Slams she has.  What is that like for you? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  You know, I can see differently because she's not getting attention of -- I mean, she's great player.  She be No. 1.  I mean, I have all respect for her.  It's not about who won more Slams or something.  It's also one part of it. 
 But she won also lots of tournaments.  She been a long time in top 5 or whatever, I mean, in ranking.  I think she get more attention of the commercials, of things out of the court.  But this is what everybody life is, you know.  Maybe I wouldn't be able, you know, just to spend two, three hours in photo shoot, maybe it's not for me. 
 I never think about.  Sometimes it's just a bit sad because many players, you know, would get a little bit more attention.  But, you know, the way it goes, it comes to you. 
 I just very happy with myself, the way I play.  I'm not looking much to her side.  I hope she will be happy with her career and what she does out of the court.  I'm just working on myself, my game, and I'm improving and getting closer to the top.  Let's see how I can make it. 
 Q.  Did you have any messages from other players before the final saying, "Great to see you back"? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I had a message after the final of Amelie.  This, I was pretty excited about because, I mean, I didn't feel very great winning her, you know.  But, I mean, we pretty close because we play doubles together.  I been following her.  I left Australia and I was texting her that "well done," I text her when she won Paris.  I was pretty, you know, trying to help her.  Now I'm very happy to get message from her. 
 I also get the message from Elena Likhovtseva.  She's good friend of mine.  Like wishing me good luck in the final. 
 Not other players as I know - sorry.  Alicia Molik, my mate.  Yeah, from her definitely. 
 I would like just -- I hope, guys, everybody will be happy, I don't know if you know, but she's coming back.  She plays -- she may play Rome, Berlin.  I mean, I'm pretty excited about this.  I'm very happy for her.  Hope it will go well. 
 Q.  Did you do anything interesting in Miami other than tennis?  Did you have any time to do anything? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  No, not really.  Not as I remember.  I went once to cinema and this was my biggest move in Miami. 
 But, I mean, I didn't have any time.  Usually I would love to go shopping in the States, you know, because in Spain or in Russia we don't have so many things in these prices.  But I am not sad about this, I am pretty happy to have this trophy with me and to play my game and to win this tournament. 
 Q.  You're apparently an iPod person.  Did you have a special bit of music you played this morning? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I would love them to ask me what I would love to hear during warm-up.  But I love this song which they had when they present me.  I was so excited they put it because they put it in the match before I guess when I played Hingis.  It's something about, "I'm so excited, I gonna like it," or whatever (laughing). 
 I was pretty pumped.  I love this song.  But the one they put on Maria, I didn't like it that much.  I mean, I love the music.  I hope one day we can have like in basketball match the same thing on this music.  I think this will be great for crowd, for tennis and for everything. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT