NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 28, 2006
Svetlana Kuznetsova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q.  It seems that you are back to your best level.   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I still hope to get much better than this (smiling).   
 But definitely I am very happy.  I worked very hard preseason, and I been working a lot on myself and on my game like last tournaments.  I am pretty happy with my improvement, you know.   
 It seems like black line in my life for the moment, it's over.  It looks much lighter, everything.  I am more happy on the court.  I am very excited about my match, my game, and I really enjoy the game on the court.  I never enjoyed that much before.   
 Now it looks to me like I am under control of situation.   
  Q.  Your confidence is back?   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Yes, definitely I have much more confidence.  Not on the top of, you know, because I never want to think like I'm on top of something, or it's the end.  I think the end is in the sky.  I mean, everything is possible in the life.   
 I want to just keep improving and keep playing much better and just really looking forward to play my next match.   
  Q.  What has been your best match so far this season, do you think?   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  My what?   
  Q.  Your best match.    
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  My best match.  I think I played very well against Martina.  I mean, I didn't -- she played very smart against me.  She's very smart player.  She play me so very uncomfortable, but I still was there, I was still playing all the match.   
 Then I played very good match against Amelie in Dubai, definitely.  I think these are probably my highlights of this season.   
  Q.  Those are good wins.  So you can look forward now to have some others?   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Yes, definitely.  I mean, I am improving match by match.  I am really happy about it.  Still looking forward, big matches to come more.   
  Q.  I have a question about instant replay.   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Yes.   
  Q.  If you look at the numbers, the lines people are wrong about 25% of the time.  So let's say 25% of close calls, they're actually wrong.  Do you think that's a good number or a bad number for a lines person?   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  You know, the thing is it's hard to say because they still human, you know.  That's why they make this Eye call, and that's why it's so interesting.  You still can challenge and you still have chance to win,  you know.  This is the good thing about line calling.   
 But then, I mean, the speed is so fast, you know.  I don't think you would be happy to sit out there and to challenge this ball, you know, when you have so much pressure on you and the ball is coming and the speed is really quick.   
  Q.  But in your opinion, is one out of four too many, or is that a good number for someone calling lines?   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I would say it's all right (smiling).   
  Q.  You would say it's all right?   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I don't want to blame nobody.  I just want to keep out, you know (smiling).  Just chill, you know.  Whatever, it's happens.  You know, bad calls happens.  It's tennis, it's all about the game, you know.  You get upset, but you still have to keep playing.   
  Q.  Your face says that maybe you think that number is too high?   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  (Laughing).  My face may say many things, but my tongue telling what I think, what I have to say, you know.   
  Q.  Are you going to watch tonight the match between Amelie and Nadia?   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I think I am going to go to swimming pool.  I saw enough tennis (laughing).   
 I don't think I gonna stay here tonight.  I think I gonna go home because I spend lots of time on the court, and I saw -- I played Amelie, and I know more or less how that Nadia plays.  And my coach will do that job, so...   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT