NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 26, 2006
Svetlana Kuznetsova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.  Could you just give a little general reaction to the match, because it was so long? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Oh, it was really tough, you know, but you are really excited to win matches like that.  I didn't play so for a long time actually these, and I'm pretty excited the way I did.  I stay in there all the time with my mind.  I wanted to win so badly.  I was hanging in there. 
 I mean, I didn't play so well, but, I mean, I'm very happy with the final result. 
 Q.  What were you thinking during that tiebreak when it kept going back and forth, back and forth? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  No, it was only going forward all the time.  I was having all the time matchpoints (smiling). 
 But what I was thinking, I was just thinking, "Come on, just make it," because I was just winning the point and then I was doing an error.  I was winning a point and making an error.  So it all depended on me. 
 I was like, "Okay."  The last one I was like, "Whatever happens, I just put the ball in and see what she can do."  So she made a mistake, and I really couldn't believe it, it was out, so I was so like happy about everything. 
 Q.  Did you know it was out? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Yeah, I mean, I saw it was out but I was not sure because she completely won all the Eye calls almost, all like three last ones.  So I was like, "Okay, maybe this Eye is for her."  So all the time saying like calling ball for her, you know.  Like I was not sure because I am not sure in this machine at all because like all the time she was right and I was wrong.  So I wasn't sure.  But I saw it was out. 
 Q.  Did you turn around and watch? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Yeah, of course.  I didn't turn around.  I was just standing there, I was shaking, "Okay, maybe this one gonna be wrong one."  I was like -- and I saw her smiling, so I said, "I guess she thinks it was out, but I'll stay," because I didn't want to do step forward to shake hands and I didn't want to go back because I thought was out.  So I was just, "Okay, what is going on here?" 
 Q.  You could tell that she was getting tired and massaged. 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I mean, she took the physio in very complicated moment.  I mean, I had to serve with the wind, so I probably win all these games on that side, you know.  She didn't broke me once on this side, you know.  Like it stop the game for me also.  It's hard of to serve, so I had to stay focused. 
 Then I knew she was not moving perfectly, but I didn't want to think about it, you know, because I always have all time, even more, to hit the ball or something.  I was already overhitting it so... 
 I was just staying calm. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT