US OPEN
August 29, 2005
Svetlana Kuznetsova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Svetlana, please.  
 
 
Q.  It must be very disappointing being the defending champion, to go out in the first round.  What are your emotions? 
 
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I mean, of course I'm disappointed to lose that match, you know.  But things happen like this.  You know, it's happened to many top players, they lose the first round.  It happened to me.  I try to stay strong and take positive things out of this.  I know I was not at my best today.  She been playing pretty well.  This is what I think happened.  It was pretty humid out there and it was tough.  It was tough to stay there.  This is my point.  
 
Q.  Was your back bothering you at all? 
 
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  No.  My back was very good.  I'm feeling pretty well, but I don't think -- I mean, couple things disturb me before the tournament, so I couldn't prepare that well.  I just didn't play my game.  
 
Q.  After Sampras won in '90, the next year he lost early.  He said he felt the monkey was off his back at that point.  Is that kind of how you feel, that that pressure is now off? 
 
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I mean, now nobody will disturb me about this.  Nobody will say me nothing.  I just relax and I'll take some time off, I guess.  And I just prepare for next events.  I'm learn a lesson.  I mean, is tough.  But, you know, the tough things make you grow stronger and make you learn.  I learn with it.  Just looking forward to play mores tennis.  I know I'll be back on my level, but it just takes some more time. 
 
Q.  How much time are you planning to take off?
 
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I don't know.  I'll see how it feels.  I need to think about things.  I will decide during the next weeks. 
 
Q.  You're the defending champ.  Did you think maybe you would be on center court for your first match? 
 
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I mean, I didn't think of it.  You know, I had to concentrate on my game, not about where they put me.  Maybe if you guys think like this, maybe it should be, you know.  It's not my decision, so I just do on the court whenever they put me to play.  
 
Q.  Can you tell us what is it that makes it so difficult?  Where does that pressure come from, the pressure on you to always perform?  How does it manifest itself? 
 
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  No, I think you just have to learn, you know, to plan your calendar a better way.  It's just year after year after year, you cannot just keep playing like 32 events a year or 25.  First of all, it's not only your mind, body, it's your mind cannot hold, then start the problems.  Especially too much matches every week.  So it's a bit hard.  Last year I played lots of tournaments.  In the end, that's why I was in great shape and I was doing well.  But maybe this year it wasn't the key to play so much and get in better shape.  Maybe it was to better to plan the calendar.  So many times you have to learn this. 
 
Q.  Were you emotionally ready to play this match?  When you went on court today to play this match, did you feel you were ready, anxious, hyped up? 
 
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  You know, it's really hard to say something like this.  I mean, I wanted it badly.  I think I tried a lot.  I've tried my best.  You know, I've been there.  But, you know, it was not my day.  Things were not going my way.  I was positive, you know.  I didn't do anything which is ugly.  I just wanted to stay as I am on the court and still try my best, you know, because if I get pissed, if I go wrong way, it's not going to help me at all.  I was ready, but I wasn't at my best.  
 
Q.  You seem to be describing a condition we know as burn-out.  Are you familiar with that phrase?  Would you agree you're experiencing it? 
 
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I'm pretty familiar after playing last year US Open, Bali, Beijing, playing indoors.  I pretty familiar with that.  I know how you feel when you just don't have any gas and you can't go any more.  But now I think it's something different, and I have to find out what's that.  It just takes a while to learn it.  It takes a while to play with pressure, to learn how to play with pressure, you know.  Just on the same things where they're coming to you, just stay the same and play the same.  It just takes time to learn.  
 
Q.  Coming into here did you say to yourself that the pressure has been so great, you don't know how to deal with it, you were going to come here, try, and if things don't work out, it's okay, try to learn how to deal with the pressure in a month or so?
 
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  The pressure, yeah.  But the pressure, usually you put it by yourself.  Because you think too much what people say; you think too much about the press, what they say.  But I was just think, I go there, I just do my best.  Happen, not happen.  You just cannot do anything more.  I've been there, I tried my best, it wasn't my day.  What do I do?  Kill myself?  No, I don't.  Just take positive things out of this and maybe I'll try to learn.  That's it.  
 
Q.  When was the last time you felt good about tennis and where you're at?
 
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Like my level, my game?  
 
Q.  Yes. 
 
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I think like very good game in Roland Garros when I played Justine.  But I still didn't use all my chances.  Just pretty normal stuff.  I just need to prepare this time better to play my good tennis again because this year it didn't happen.  
 
Q.  You were a fairly obscure player before you won here last year.  Were you surprised by all the pressure and attention you got both here and during the year as the US Open champion? 
 
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I think I get more pressure than attention, you know, because every time they asking like -- it start almost like, I won last year, then from this year, January, "What do you think about defending your title?"  When you hear it all the year, it's like I know I have to defend, but it's better to defend than never have to win it, you know.  I already won it, so I'm happy with that.  I will have so many chances, you know, just to play this game again and just will play -- hope to play many more US Opens and have chances to win it again.  
 
Q.  Are you saying this is a little bit of relief? 
 
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  No.  Just happen.  Just happen.  I wasn't at my best.  I was not till -- till this day was not good year for me, so good as last year.  I just take things how I take it.  
 
Q.  Coming into the tournament, you didn't have any real expectation that you could win it again, did you?
 
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I didn't expect it last year either.  I mean, I'm just playing.  When you have good chance, you do your best.  When chance not happens, you just try, and see what happens.  If you never try, you never do it.  Sometimes you feel horrible and you winning a title, and sometimes you feel good and you not winning anything.  So it's tennis, it's life.  
 
Q.  How much is the pressure is there with competition against the Russian girls? 
 
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I think now it's got a little bit less.  I feel it less.  I don't know when it's about other girls.  Last year it was much higher for me, I know.  It's really important.  It's really been pushing us up, you know.  Now I think everybody's a bit tired is my opinion.  
 
Q.  We have a phrase called "bounce," when you do something well, you get a bounce out of it.  When you came back from 5-2 in the final here last year to beat Elena, people expected you would get a bounce out of that.  You haven't had that great a year.  Why?  What's missing? 
 
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  If I would know, I wouldn't do this, right (smiling)?  I mean, if I know what's the problem, I would say, "Okay, I have to change it."  But sometimes it's just not going your way, things doesn't happen.  It's not that easy because I guess I just been a bit tired last year after everything.  I mean, it's been tough year.  I flew all over the world.  After US Open, I went Bali, Beijing.  After, I just been burn out in indoors.  It takes your body to recover.  After, when you start to play again, it's hard to find your rhythm.  This is what happened to me, I guess.  I mean, this is so many different points.  I mean, I just want to have some time off and just start it again.  I really believe I'm going to do well again.  
 
Q.  You were very close to a very important win over Justine in Paris.  You almost gave that match away.  To come here and lose in the first round, is this affecting your mentality? 
 
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I mean, this wasn't big match for me, I don't think so.  I take big match against Justine, I lost with two match points.  I lost to Myskina also two years ago.  I really think I'm player professional when I stand up and play again.  I don't let myself to go so much down.  Of course, any time you have ups and downs, you know.  Now I'm a bit down, so I think is going to be some up in there.  
 
Q.  Yesterday you said coming here just changes everything, I remember the memories.  I guess maybe you didn't remember them enough, huh? 
 
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  You know, I mean, to remember memories, it's not enough to win the game.  I don't know if I explain myself well.  If you just -- I don't know, it's nice to win, it's nice to be here.  Every year I will enjoy it because I know I won this thing.  I mean, it's just one dream which came true, and I know that many people, they dream, and they cannot get it.  I'm happy to be here and to try it again once more and once more.  I cannot win every time.  Nobody can do this.  You can't expect this.  
 
Q.  What would you like to do?  If you had no calendar, what would you want to do with your life?
 
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  You know what, I would still go and play tennis because I love this game, just without everything, you know.  I hit to have fun, I hit to keep in shape, just practice well, to don't have pressure for a while from the tournaments, just get myself out of it.  And next when I come, I want to feel fresh again.  I want to look for a fight, you know, to come back again.  
 
Q.  Any desire to play Fed Cup?
 
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Not really.  I spoke to the captain last year, the end of last year and start of this year.  I was not planning to play.  I cannot put myself to do the best for my country.  
 
Q.  Even though it's the final? 
 
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Yeah.  But, I mean, I would love to, but I'm not in the best shape to do it.  I cannot play -- I learn a lesson last year.  I played lots of tournaments.  I've done the best for my team, I guess.  I went to Argentina after Wimbledon, which was not easy.  I went to -- the end of the year as soon as I had to play Fed Cup.  I couldn't do so well.  I didn't do that much in the final.  I just want to play at my best for my team, and now I cannot do this.  All injuries and stuff, I just want to have some time off, I guess.  I don't know, I'll think about it.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT