WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2005
Svetlana Kuznetsova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions in English, please. 
 

Q.  I was just going to ask, I think you answered the same thing in Russian, but four Russian players in the quarterfinals.  Do you think there's any reason for that, or how would you explain that?
 
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I mean, what's the reason about last year of three Russian players won a Grand Slam each? So, I mean, the reason is everybody play well and great competition between each other and just do well. 
 

Q.  Do you think there's any training methods or reason why so many Russian players have made it to the Top 10?
 
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I mean, this question, we should make a poster so everybody knows (smiling). No, I mean, because we compete between each other so much, and since we are young we have not good conditions and it's so tough to get through, like, through this world to go higher, you know, to start traveling and everything because it's so hard with the sponsors.  And since you do this, you just become so strong a person, player and mentality. 
 

Q.  You need a strong mentality to break through?
 
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Yeah, yeah, because nobody will give you nothing for free in Russia, and you have to do the work for it. 
 

Q.  You think maybe some of the other countries, they're not as kind of mentally tough?
 
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I mean, sometimes people, like they are starting to play tennis, no, but like, "It's okay, he has only 10 years old and he has all the time in the life."  This is not like this.  You have to play tennis (indiscernible), you have to practice a lot.  Sometimes people think that kids shouldn't do this, but it's different in Russia. 
 

Q.  Are you, yourself and the others, role models there for more youngsters to play tennis in Russia?
 
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Yeah, I hope so.  I hope so.  I know that people, they are trying to open more clubs in different city.  Because now the most important city is Moscow, so everything is in Moscow and they have very good level there.  But other cities are not so good, so I know that people, they are trying to do something. 
 

Q.  Are the Russian players close as friends?  Do you travel with one another?
 
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I mean, some of them, but it's very hard to be because we have so big competition between us.  So this is why.  Competition makes you grow another level, you know.  You just fight till the end and you want to do better and you want to be best in your country and you just want to do good, you know. 
 

Q.  How do you assess the chances of the four of you here?
 
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Everybody has different, you know -- lots of chances because everybody is different.  If you get to quarterfinals, you can go higher.  This is just -- all depend on yourself and how much you believe, how strong you want it. 
 

Q.  Do you think Petrova can beat Sharapova?
 
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Well, I have no idea, you know.  It's between them and whatever they play like. But I think -- I don't know.  We'll see tomorrow. 
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT