AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 25, 2005
Svetlana Kuznetsova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Svetlana.  
 
 
Q.  What happened with your serve in this match?
 
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Well, I mean, it was just terrible, you know.  These matches I cannot win without playing forehand in the court, with so many unforced errors and not putting any first serves in.  It was just terrible.  Maybe I was not concentrate so much in my serve.  But it's almost from the start, it went just long way.  I was very focused and I play very well first set.  And after something happened, so I just stopped.  And, I mean, I just stopped playing.  I mean, like my body was there, but my mind wasn't there at all.  It was just, I don't know, ball boy playing out there.  And I didn't do anything to win this match.  I didn't deserve to win because I just didn't fight.  I played well first set.  It was like going well.  I could have win it even easier.  And I was doing my things what I have to do to beat her.  In the second and third set, I just went off, you know.  It's not just because of fitness conditions.  It's all in the mind, you know.  I have the game.  I have everything.  If I don't do the right things, I don't win. 
 
Q.  Where did your mind go?
 
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Well, this is what I have to ask, you know, myself.  This is what I have to think of.  I mean, if I want to be No. 1, if I want to go more forward, if I want to win more Grand Slams, I just have to change totally, you know.  I have to change this game.  It should not happen to me, in the Grand Slam especially.  Because I had the match in my hands, I had everything.  I just switched off.  
 
Q.  Do you think in temperatures like this, maybe the roof should be closed?
 
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I don't know.  Is difficult to say, you know.  But especially is hard for both players, for me and Maria.  It was hard to play, you know.  I think even I have more fitness condition.  I mean, I was fine.  I think she was more tired than I was, you know.   I just -- I cannot say now excuse it was too hot.  It's, I don't know, it's a lie.  I just lost because I didn't play anything.  
 
Q.  I wasn't suggesting that you lost because of the heat.  It was more as far as health is concerned. 
 
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Maybe.  Maybe.  Maybe it should be closed the roof.  But it's Australian Open.  So I think we should play on the open air, you know, open roof.  But if it's rain, they can close it.  But it's decision of the tournament.  I mean, I don't mind, you know.  I play whatever.  
 
Q.  Do you have the impression that she was fading at the end, and if you could keep a few balls going, win a couple service games, you'd be all right?
 
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Yeah, definitely.  Definitely I could -- I mean, this last point I could have win, and points before, advantage, if I would stay there, you know.  But the thing was, my mind was not there.  And I was so upset what happened in the third set.  In the end, I already knew what I did wrong, you know.  And it's bit -- I've been in the past, not in the time I was on the court.  You know, I was thinking, "I had 1-Love and I didn't use it, I didn't close it."  I was so upset with the past, and I couldn't concentrate on the moment I was on.  I think this was the main problem.  But I had chances every point.  I had chances in the end.  I mean, I think as soon as I'm on the court, as soon as I didn't shake the hand, I have chances.  
 
Q.  Talk about the effect that playing doubles with Martina had on your game.  Did that also add any sort of mental toughness to your game?
 
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I mean, now that's completely different thing, you know.  Definitely it's help me a lot.  I start to even practice more.  I start to improve better on and off the court, you know.  But I can say I improve serve, I improve volley.  I just need to do it more in singles.  I have to get going more in singles, you know, doing the stuff.  That's it.  
 
Q.  You've lost to Maria the last two times you played her.  Besides the fact that maybe mentally you didn't have a good match, what do you think she is doing better and better in the last few months?
 
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I lost her -- yeah, I lost her last two times.  Each match was so much different, you know.  I mean, in indoor, she just played great, you know.  She played unbelievable.  I couldn't do anything.  Today I think it was my match, and I just -- I was playing well first set.  I show like what I should do and what I have to do.  The most thing she's improved I think is in her mind.  I mean, it's not improved, it's just the mentally tough.  She's very confident in herself.  She's winning so many matches.  She's going, you know, she fights so hard.  She improved the shots, definitely, but I think the most thing is in her mind. 
 
Q.  It's her ability to stay focused like you were unable to do today?
 
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I mean, I have to get used, you know, to play with her.  You know, I need couple more matches.  But she's playing well.  
 
Q.  Do you think she can win the tournament?
 
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  You know, you never know.  But we'll see.  I didn't see other girls, how they play, so.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT