AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 19, 2005
Svetlana Kuznetsova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Svetlana, please. 


Q.  Was it difficult for you to put the distractions from off-court out of your mind while you were playing?

SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Well, you know, I think I'm professional enough, you know, to go there and just to do my job.  While I was on the court, I was not thinking about this, you know.  And just afterwards, walking off the court, I felt like everything is start to come back to me, you know, to come back on my mind, you know.  When I played the match, I was focused on my match. 

Q.  Have you spoken to Elena Dementieva since all this happened?

SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I think she did her -- she said her word in press yesterday, you know.  I didn't talk to her. 

Q.  You haven't spoken to her at all?

SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  No.  I didn't see her.

Q.  Are you disappointed with her remarks?

SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  You know, I kind of understand her.  I don't mind, you know, what she says.  Everybody has an opinion.  That's fine. 

Q.  Do you normally have a good friendship with Elena?

SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  We're okay, you know, we say hello every day.  But I never played with her when I was a junior, you know, so I know her during one year.  Sometimes we just understand disappointment with other people because I think we are all involved and we are all victims of this. 

Q.  Are you receiving support from the rest of the girls in the locker room?

SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I don't talk about this much.  You know, I'm here to play tennis and I want to keep focused on my game.  I come here first thing, and my first priority is playing tennis.  I feel support from lots of people and I really appreciate for it. 

Q.  Can you just clarify about the test in Belgium.  You took a cold remedy?

SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I went to the Belgium, I had temperature like 37.  I just felt sick.  And I went to the doctor.  That is usual for everybody.  And he gave me medicine, and I was taking it.  So nothing wrong with that. 

Q.  That was during the tournament, not before it?

SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Huh? 

Q.  During the tournament, after it had started. 

SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Well, I was sick before, like maybe two days.  I was taking it during the time he told me to take, so... 

Q.  Did you ask him whether what he gave you, whether there might be any problems with it?

SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I did ask.

Q.  And he said it was okay?

SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Yeah. 

Q.  Do you think it might be a good idea for players to actually get doctors to actually sign something saying, "This is safe for you to take," so you have something?

SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  But I don't think I took something wrong because it was --

Q.  The doctor said it was okay to take.  It may not have been.  Do you think doctors should be made to sign a statement saying it's safe for you to take?

SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Yeah, definitely I think it should be a little bit like this.  I definitely think that doctors should make a statement what we can take for sure, you know.  For the reasons when you are feeling too bad, you know, because while you're in a bad, like feeling so bad, you have to stand up, you have to take something, because you give your word, you have to play.

Q.  Have you heard anything officially yet from Belgium?

SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  No.

Q.  Did the doping testers ask you if you had taken anything before they tested you?

SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Yeah, I put everything, you know. 

Q.  Did you tell them you'd taken something?

SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Yeah, yeah, everything was fine.  No comments.  I mean, I put everything, so... 

Q.  From what we saw today, it doesn't seem to be affecting the way you're playing tennis.  You're still playing very well. 

SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I feel like I'm professional player and I have to do it and I want to show that it doesn't affect me, you know, 'cause I don't feel like I did something wrong.  I just try to take it out of my mind because I need to play my game.  This is my first priority. 

Q.  Has it given you extra motivation?

SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Maybe in some points, yes, and different ways no, because it takes a bit your energy.  But definitely I'm motivated more because I want to show to people that still I'm here.

Q.  How do you feel right now about this official who came out with this accusation? 

SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  You know, last year I played US Open, I won one of the biggest events.  I worked for this all my life.  It was a big dream for me.  And I was not so famous.  Now everybody coming to my press conference, looking my practice.  You know, it's feel totally different.  I feel like a star here, I don't know, and I didn't do nothing wrong (laughter).  So this is the funny thing about this, you know.  I'm not afraid of nothing because I didn't do nothing wrong.  I feel that he shouldn't do this 'cause I think it's worse for him than for me.  You know, maybe it's touch my reputation a little bit, but I think everybody understand.  And I don't know what he was thinking of. 

Q.  Have you asked the WTA if there's any sort of action that you can take against the Belgium minister or if there's anything you can do to help resolve this?

SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Yeah, definitely, you know, these days my lawyers, my agents, my parents, WTA definitely, everybody was working on it, and everybody try to help me, you know.  Everybody's on my side 'cause this is terrible thing what can happen, so... 

Q.  So you're saying you might sue him?

SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I don't know yet.  It's all -- it's not -- it's not my decision now.  I'm playing Australian Open, I'm here to play.  I'm not going to think now who I going to sue, who I don't, you know.  So definitely he has to pay for it, you know.  But this is going to be the thing what going to take my management, my agents, my parents.  You know, they going to think about this. 

Q.  Were you pleased with the way the crowd - even though it wasn't a big crowd - seemed to support you?  They gave you a pretty good ovation at the end.

SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Definitely, I really appreciate for all the people.  I think people, everybody understand, you know.  Saw lots of people in hotel.  And everybody knows me.  After they ask autograph.  I mean, even on the street, you know.  So it feels like everybody understands.  So I really pleased with this and appreciate for that. 

Q.  Have you actually been notified by the Belgian minister about the test?

SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I didn't know -- I don't know nothing.

Q.  You still haven't heard anything?

SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  No.  All I know is from the press. 

Q.  The Belgian minister said he called your coach before it was released to the press.  Do you know anything about that?

SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  No, I don't know anything.  You know, I'm here.  I'm focused on my tennis.  And what I'm getting is from the press, asking me this question, what you all guys ask.  I understand the press asking this, you know, because everybody needs something to tell to people.  But I don't know anything.  You know, I've been in touch with my parents, with everybody, because everybody is a little bit confused what was going on.  Everybody tried to help me, so... 

Q.  Where is Emilio right now? 

SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Emilio, he's in Spain, yeah.

Q.  The minister actually said in this quote, he said that at 9:30 in the morning on Monday, there was connection between a coach, one of your coaches, and his office.  They talked on the phone.  That would have been about 7:30 at night here on Monday.  He said there was a discussion between his office and your coach.  Do you know who that could be?

SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  You know, I have many coaches, you know.  I travel last year like maybe with seven coaches now.  I mean, this is just -- they didn't contact me, you know.

Q.  None of your coaches talked to you?

SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  No.  I mean, nobody knows anything.  I think it's just a bad thing, they didn't contact even WTA, nobody get official letter, nothing.  WTA, ITF, Russian Federation.  I talked to everybody.  And nothing official, so... 

Q.  The Belgian minister also said he didn't feel like he needed to apologize.  What do you feel about that? 

SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  You know, tomorrow I wake up and I say something bad about somebody, I will feel terrible.  Because, you know, sometimes when you blow the name of somebody for nothing, you know, everybody of us, three of us, we work for this so hard.  We getting it every day we work for this, you know, for have a good name, very clear, and we're all very clear athletes.  Then somebody take and say this.  And nothing is for sure yet.  So it's just a bit dirty, you know.  Everybody can have opinion.  This is my opinion about that. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT