BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 19, 2017
Svetlana Kuznetsova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








E. VESNINA/S. Kuznetsova
6-7, 7-5, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. A tough loss for you, but obviously a great run here this week.  How did she work her way back into that match, do you think?
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I felt like when I was playing, I didn't feel good today, because she was very aggressive, and I was a little bit out of my game.  I was too far from the court, and I was running all the way, way behind, so the only thing I could defend.  And I didn't serve well.
So I think that was overall the key points.  Even I made it 7-6, 4-1 and was one break, and she kept being aggressive, and, yeah, I was too passive.  I think that's why I lost.
Q. Even when you were up in the second set 4-1, you were still not feeling totally comfortable?
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: No, I didn't feel comfortable at all today on the court.  I was trying to do the best I could, you know, but this is the type of day when you don't play your best tennis and you've gotta still do your effort.
I tried my best and she won because she was more aggressive than I did.  I was too passive.  That's it.  Too much behind and didn't serve well, I think it was key points.
Q. Did you feel like you were passive because of the moment or stress or pressure?  I mean, why were you finding yourself back there too far?
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Well, of course, of course it was a lot of pressure.  But also, I don't know.  You know, some days you just don't feel the best way.  You cannot really explain why.
Today it wasn't like other night when I played Pliskova, I was playing great.  Now, to play day match, it's a bit different.  I couldn't figure out a lot the wind and stuff like that.
But, still, I give a lot of credit to her, because she was aggressive.  If she wouldn't, she didn't have any chances to play.  So I had to go to be more inside of the court, and I couldn't do it.
Q. She's a player who has had success, of course, in doubles for a while, but is just breaking through in singles.  Do you think she could be someone who sticks around for a while and gets into the top 10?
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Why not?  Of course, I mean, she did semis in Wimbledon last year.  She won here now.  She has to be much more consistent to be in top 10, but she can make it, for sure.
Q. How are you feeling, like, right now?  Is it disappointment?  Frustration?  Happy with your week?  What are kind of the emotions?
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Look, I gotta be positive, you know.  It's no way to be negative.  I made finals here is great.  I lost a match which I should have win, but, you know, this is tennis.  This is game.  Nobody died, so I move on, and I'm on a good way.  I'm playing better.  I'm winning lots of matches in a good way, in two sets.  I'm really positive.
Definitely I'm really frustrated with that loss, but I will go above that, hopefully, and will be all right.
Q. Do you take any parallels from this final to the other two finals you have had here?
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Oh, I don't even remember other finals.  I mean, it was way back when I was a child (smiling).
Q. Obviously you're heading to Miami.  How are you feeling physically?  How draining was this two weeks here?
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: No, I feel great.  I didn't overwork.  I think what really is difficult to handle, like, lots of stress.  It's, like, kind of waste you physically a little bit.  But the rest matches didn't get me so much tired.  I feel great physically.
I'm looking forward to have couple days off and hopefully get a good start in Miami.
Q. You played a few aggressive players, and obviously she hits the ball flat.  But what makes her different from other aggressive players?  What does she do?
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: You see, I have not played her so much to know her game better.  Definitely the next time I will come up to play against her I will have better strategy.
This, today, was a bit frustrated, because she was playing flat.  But just different.  The ball was sliding quite a bit.
I think it doesn't help me that we didn't play much before.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT