US OPEN
September 10, 2004
Svetlana Kuznetsova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Svetlana, please. 


Q.  Why do you think you needed a practice after that kind of victory? 

SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  You know, it was great victory but the weather was so -- I mean, the wind was blowing so hard, so you really, like, have to clean your shots after.  But anyway I did it after almost each match.  Each day I played, I hit afterwards. 

Q.  When did you realize that she was hurt? 

SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I mean, Lindsay, if she was hurt, her game doesn't need so much like movement.  She play so well without moving, you know.  If she's even hurt, you still have to play because she has great hands.  And with the wind, it was tough for me to make her move, you know.  So, I mean, I just had to play the same as I played before.  Yeah, she was hurt, I mean, when she took a break, no?  But before, I didn't see it.  If she wouldn't take a break, I wouldn't see that she was hurt.

Q.  Did you see a big difference at the end when she wasn't moving that much?

SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Not really.  I didn't see like last game, but I was serving well, you know. I mean, the last game, she maybe stop a little bit.  But I can't say anything because I been serving well anyway, you know. 

Q.  Was that your strategy, to move her around?

SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Against Lindsay, you won't play to her, you know.  I mean, it's no way you gonna win it.  You know, but in the first set it was so tough because the wind was blowing so hard.  I had no chances to put the ball -- to make the ball, you know, to play to the side because you can't risk because you never know where the ball gonna go. So I was just trying to play my game, to dictate a little bit, not to defend too much and move her around. 

Q.  How does this feel, first Grand Slam final? 

SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I mean, it feels great, you know.  I'm trying not to think so much about it, just to focus.  Nothing is done yet, so I'll have to be focus.  And after this tournament I'll think about what I did here, right and wrong, and how happy I am or am not. 

Q.  So you're not...

SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I'm calm.  I'm fine.  I'm happy to win against Lindsay today.  Just one more match left.  So looking forward for this.

Q.  Did you get nervous when Lindsay took that break after the second set?  You didn't start the third set very well. 

SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Uhm, yeah, she took this break, but the thing is I had to play better third set.  I had to break her in first game.  It was difficult because she took this break and you just stopped, you know.  I won first point.  After, I miss forehand a little bit 'cause of the wind.  I mean, it was just too difficult to break her in first game. And in the second game, I served against the wind, you know.  I mean, you just -- against the wind, it's so tough to serve.  I just can't describe it.  I couldn't do anything.  I couldn't -- when I serve, I don't know where the serve gonna go.  Doesn't matter where I gonna hit it. So I was calm, I was trying just to hang there.  I knew if she break me against the wind, I can break her, too.  That's what I did.  After, I was just trying to keep my serve and give her much more problem as I could on her...

Q.  Do you think you played well today? 

SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I mean, I've played okay.  I played good, you know.  Of course I wish play better, you know, but I am still very happy with result.  That I hang in there, you know.  The most important was for me to put as many balls as I could into the court to make her move around. I serve better in the end, in the last two sets.

Q.  Were you nervous at all that first game, of the first set? 

SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Not really.  I was just fine.  I was just playing the match.  I was nervous in the last game at 5-4, so... But was -- I was okay. 

Q.  When you found out that Dementieva won the first set 6-Love, were you surprised? 

SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  A little bit, but not really because I know that the wind is like this and the game could change any moment.  That's the same thing that happened today in our match, you know. With this wind, you never know who gonna win.  I really didn't know.  I didn't watch any of this match because I been here practicing. 

Q.  You're Top 10 in the world.  Do you sort of feel like the forgotten Russian among all the Russians?

SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Like what? 

Q.  Like the one that's not noticed among all the Russians even though you're Top 10 in the world?

SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I feel different.  I feel that other players that are Russian have more attention to them, you know.  But I don't mind, you know.  I am still Top 10, I am still doing my good results, and I am still practicing better and better my game.  If I will do better, everybody will notice me, so... Just think positive. 

Q.  Elena said the French final that she and Myskina played was the biggest thing in Russia, an all-Russian final.  Do you think playing Elena might be bigger than that?

SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I don't think is gonna be bigger for Russia because first thing is much bigger, definitely, you know. But it's really big for me, you know.  So for me it's the most important thing.  So for me, for people who are around me, you know... So for me this is the most important thing.  Anyway, I am really happy if it's all-Russian final.  I'm fine if it's gonna be American.  I don't have nothing against it.  I just want to play the winner, that's it.

Q.  Considering what happened at the French Open with Myskina, she went on to win the tournament, did that make you believe you could do the same thing, what you've done here?

SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  You know, you always have to believe in what you can do this.  But sometimes it's difficult because you see the level on the TV and it seems to be so high.  But, still, I was like I had matchpoint.  I was most like difficult opponent of her, I think, Roland Garros.  Of course I did believe her.  Of course I could have change history maybe, I could have been Grand Slam winner and it could be somebody different, you know.  I mean, you never know.  But of course I believe it.  Of course I was upset about it because I lost against her twice this year and both times I was up all the time.  It was -- match was in my hands.

Q.  Can you talk about the best vacation you've taken?

SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  You know, I'm not really know any vacation I took in my life.  But last year I had three days.  I like just to -- when I was living in Russia, I was going to snowboard sometimes.  Last year I had only three days off, so I just took my car, my friends, and we went to the Alps, French Alps, and I was just skiing for two days.  For me, it was like almost the best thing. 

Q.  Where did you go to practice after the match?  Who did you hit with?

SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  With my coach, Sergio.

Q.  Did you stay on the practice courts?

SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Yeah.

Q.  Did anybody stop you on your way out there?  Did everybody notice? 

SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Some kids, you know, few girls, but not really many people, you know. I know that if Lindsay would do that thing, you know, of course there would be more people watching her.  But, you know, I don't mind.  I am still doing this.  I am doing the way I want to, you know, and I'm still enjoying it. 

Q.  You played tennis every day last year except for three days in the year? 

SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  No. 

Q.  You said you only had three days off. 

SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Three days off in a row.  You know, of course I had days off (laughing).  I mean, I'm not nuts to play every day. But last year, in the start at least, when I had days off, it was like I miss tennis so much.  I couldn't stay day off of tennis.  I wanted to be there just to go to club to hit a little bit.  But now I have so many things to do and so many tournaments, so I just need it sometimes.  Your body, your mind just need rest, you know. 

Q.  What is it about tennis that you like so much? 

SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  Just because if you work so hard, always is gonna be benefit back to you.  Because you really have -- you can show your personality in the court, and definitely it's good.  We have like four Grand Slam.  We have so many tournaments in the year.  I start to understand that after Olympics, because that guys who do there, they go there and maybe they have two Olympics in their life, you know.  And if you do one, if you don't do twice, you know, you never happen in your life for them.  Maybe you had bad luck, but nobody cares, you know.  You didn't win so that's it. We can try our chances everywhere, you know.  The year is long.  You travel, you see more people, you know, you get more experience on the road especially. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT