US OPEN
September 8, 2004
Svetlana Kuznetsova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.  
 
 
Q.  If you could just discuss about what you went through today with the rain, the wait, the anticipation. 
 
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I mean, today was a very difficult day.  Last night we finish quite late.  We played three sets doubles.  It was very tense.  In the morning when I wake up, it was like I looked in the window, you know, I didn't want to go to club, I wanted to stay little bit in hotel.  I saw the rain, you know.  I knew I have to go, you know.  One point, I was happy that I don't have to play straightaway, you know.  But other point I knew it even worse because I have to wait all day long in the club because I didn't know what was better. I was just going, trying to be calm, you know.  So we were already like -- we came to club and we had some time to warm up, like half an hour before showers started. And after, it was like in and out, in and out.  They were going like you're going on in 20 minutes, 10 minutes, no, it's rain again, back.  In 10 minutes.  You have to warm up again, you have to go back.  It was like kind of very difficult. But the most important thing to me was don't get nervous, you know, just to be calm.  And when I finally would get to the court, I started the match, I saw I cannot -- it was so difficult to see the ball, you know.  I just couldn't make the shot just so easy, the easiest one, you know.  I was just missing them. I saw she was also doing the same thing, you know.  So both of us, we played like little bad, you know, for quarterfinals.  But you can't do anything about it because it's like this, you know.  It's not about our level; it's about how was the day, you know. So about the level, was next thing.  About level, who gonna win and who gonna stay more calm in this match and who gonna do the things what -- to try to do things, you know, and don't get so unhappy with unforced errors. So I was just trying to be consistent, you know.  In second set I did early break.  I knew it was good, one point.  But other point it's still early, you know.  I mean, I didn't play so much in my career, you know, so I didn't know, like, to stay all the time in the game.  But I was still trying to be more aggressive on my serve and try to make her play on her serve, you know, if I could do the other break is better. And she had twice breakpoint on my serve, which one she miss my second serve.  And second time I just served well. And I knew I just have to be, you know, all the time there, you know.  Doesn't matter, I didn't have to overhit the shots, you know.  Just to be there.  Doesn't matter if I would have lose this serve, just to stay there.  So who will stay there, who will be more calm is gonna win, you know, is gonna bring you the victory, I think. 
 
Q.  You've had good results this year.  But to get this far, get to the semifinals, play Lindsay Davenport, that's got to be exciting?
 
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I mean, that's great, you know.  I'm really looking forward to this.  It will be great experience for me.  I will try to do my best, you know.  I mean, to do my best, one point you say, it's just like everybody says, you know.  But what I mean is just to go there and play my game, you know, just try to improve my game each match.  So this year it was one point was very good.  But other way, I see so many disappointing matches.  Like it's could have been so much better 'cause, like, Roland Garros, you know.  It's the worst tournament I can remember in my life, I think.  I lost to Myskina.  I had 6-1, 3-1.  I had match in my hands.  After, I just started to rush and to do different things.  I didn't have to change anything, you know.  After I had the matchpoint.  After she's going and she's winning Grand Slam, you know.  I mean, this is weird.  And after, I win Eastbourne.  I'm in good form.  But I have to play next day, you know, almost in one day Wimbledon.  I wasn't ready for this.  And from one point, you won such a great tournament, such half million tournament, I never did it, you know.  And after when I lose next day first round in Wimbledon, of course it hits you in the head and it brings you so much down.  So the important thing is I think I did, I just was trying to hang in there.  Doesn't matter was happen bad to me, you know, I was just trying to play my game each tournament, you know, to improve, you know.  Just don't bring your head down, you know, just always try to go higher.  So I think this the most thing what help me.  
 
Q.  Lindsay had said that there were about 100 people when she started, fans, in her match.  She was aware of people walking around.  It was very distracting.  How was it playing in front of such a small crowd today? 
 
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I mean, I think one point I was happy that we are not playing on the Armstrong or other court, you know, because, I mean, it's what I understood from anybody there.  It's even weird.  It's better to play smaller court so it seems little bit crowded, you know.  It was important for me, maybe, to play small court so I don't get so nervous.  You know, it was just one more match.  I played Pratt second round of main draw in here, you know, this court.  Now I play in quarterfinals in the same court.  I just like...  It's weird, you know.  But I really just was thinking just one more match, just to hang there.  I knew I couldn't do my best today because it was like impossible.  
 
Q.  At the start of the match, there were about 30 fans there.  Can you remember the last time you played a match in front of only 30 or 40 fans?
 
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  You know, I'm -- I think I played many matches like this because, I mean, I used to crowd matches.  I mean, I'm fine with that.  Because I had good experience last year, I played with Martina.  You can imagine how many people coming to watch it this matches.  And when I played singles, I am not that famous; I am not that good.  People like not -- I mean, "that good," not so popular.  You know, I don't have such a like publicity, maybe, like Sharapova, you know.  I know I am very different, you know, totally.  But like maybe I didn't -- I mean, not many people know me.  Not many people, they just look in the paper and say, "Wow, Kuznetsova, she's seeded.  She should be good.  We come to watch her."  But some of them, it's not really many people coming to watch. So I don't really quite remember, so... 
 
Q.  You're playing a woman who has just won four hard court tournaments and is obviously an American favorite.  You're not likely to see a lightly packed house; you're going to see many people in the stadium.  It will be a different atmosphere than today.  Talk about what you need to do to overcome both Lindsay and the atmosphere that you will be facing?
 
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:  I know that the court gonna be -- the crowd almost gonna be against me, you know.  Maybe I'll -- can do something, the crowd some people will be with me, you know.  But, I mean, is not my point of going through this match, turn crowd for me.  I'm just going there to did my best, try to win, you know.  So I never played Lindsay.  It's gonna be first time for me.  I know she's very tough opponent.  I mean, she's in her best shape, you know.  She win all the tournaments she ever played, you know. I just played Martina yesterday, so all the people was against us.  But still we could go through this, you know.  This I think is only mental strength, you know.  I think if I believe, I can do it, you know.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT