BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS SINGAPORE
October 29, 2016
Svetlana Kuznetsova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








D. CIBULKOVA/S. Kuznetsova
1-6, 7-6, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. What do you think made the difference in the third set of that match?
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Well, I think Dominika was very aggressive.  I didn't use my advantage.  I didn't serve well enough at 4-2, and that's pretty it.
Q. Were there some distractions off court that you were having some difficulty with?
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Yeah.
Q. Can you share those?
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I would rather not go there.
Q. I appreciate it must be difficult at this stage to look back over the last couple of weeks, but do you feel a sense of pride in what you've achieved in what's been a long stretch for you?
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Yeah, now it's a bit difficult to look at it back because I'm still thinking about the match.  I felt I have opportunities, but of course I went a little bit short because I had too many matches and it was very emotional everything.
But, yeah, I'm very proud of effort I've done.  I played many matches I didn't expect.  Such a good ending of the season, and I'm proud of my effort.
Q. Did you feel fatigue or more mental tiredness towards the end?
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I just didn't think about it.  I was just giving it all I had and that's it.  You know, it's not worth thinking if I'm tired, if I'm fatigued.  Whatever it is, I'm not going to put any excuses.  I just did all I could, and I went short a little bit in the end.
That's it.
Q. Just talking about the emotions of the match and everything like that, and even now, what is like kicking off the emotion for you?  Is it just the frustration of losing the match?  The disappointment?  The pressure?  Kind of all?  Release?  I don't know.
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I think overall I was frustrated for other thing which I thought was a little bit unprofessional.  But overall, Dominika played really good.  She was really aggressive.  I was short in some shots, and in the end I think she just was aggressive and I was not.
That's it.
Q. This is your first time to Singapore, and we're sad to see you --
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Second.
Q. Okay, second.  We're curious, what are some of the things you've enjoyed the most this week coming here last minute and playing so well?
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I mean, I was just spending all my time on the court, a lot of time.  Straight when I came I had no time to visit anything.  I was trying just to save energy.  I stayed all the time in the room and trying to do my best to recover and play matches.
That's all.  I enjoyed the crowd.  I enjoyed the tournament a lot, and that's it.  I have not had any time to visit.
Q. I understand you don't want to speak about it, but you felt she did something unprofessional or her camp?
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: What?
Q. Did you feel she did something unprofessional in the match or somebody from her camp?
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: No, she was okay.
Q. You really weren't thinking about much other than the matches this week, but have you started thinking about your off-season?  Anyplace you would like to go?
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Last year I had only five days off, so definitely I'll have more time off this year, especially I qualify here so I didn't have to go to another tournament after that.  So I'm really happy.
I will go for a week home.  Really I didn't have any thought of where I go for holidays.  I didn't have any time for that.  I just wanted to focus on finishing the season the best I could.
Yeah, I'll go somewhere on the sand.  Where, I don't know yet.
Q. Does your season as a whole or even just the way you're season ended with all success towards the end, does it make you hungrier for 2017 and what you can possibly do in the first few months there, or is it the same as it was before in terms of your motivation?  What do you think is the impact there?
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I didn't have -- honestly, I didn't have any time to think about it.  I just think about vacation right now and just let it go.  You know, I have to go to bed and sleep relaxed, not to think about the matches, not to be nervous all the time.  Because last five weeks it was every single day I think about next day to play match.
So I'm like dreaming to just relax, relax the nerve, and then I just want to have good season and good pre-season, and next year just to be consistent.  I think I got lots of confidence after finishing the year like that.  I think I can do a lot of the things.
Of course I don't want to have many expectations, so I would like to try to start season as last year.  Just try to be stable and consistent.
Q. To end on a positive note, you talked yesterday about keeping happy, and you were very thoughtful about that.  What are some of the things that make you happiest about playing on the tour?
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I mean, off tour, my hometown, my home makes knee happy, and my dog, my friends.
On the tour, definitely what you work for it's winning.  Of course winning makes you very happy.  And just, working hard and enjoying tennis.  That's what makes me happy.
This year I read what Roger said once.  He said, Why the press sometimes put so much pressure on players?  Maybe some players just love to play tennis, you know.
I'm not loving to play tennis.  Of course I love to win and I wish to win, bit I do enjoy the game a lot.
I think it's really nice to work something what you love and what you enjoy.
Q. As you said, you love the game.  We talked to Radwanska a few days ago and she says she often goes on YouTube to watch her hot shots.  Do you do that?  Your ones, of course, not hers.
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Actually I watch hers a lot.  She always have the best shots.  I don't know how she makes it.  She really makes nice shots.
But I do watch mine as well.  Last night I was watching the a shot I made against Garbine.  It was really nice.  And also I have focus on Svetlana Kuznetsova, my fan group, and they always put the best shots of the match.  I often go to watch that because it's nice.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT