QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 27, 2020
Svetlana Kuznetsova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. KUZNETSOVA/B. Bencic
6-4, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Can you just talk through the match from your side, obviously a close match and what did you think made the difference in getting it done in two sets?
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I thought that I didn't serve so well in St. Petersburg match and I didn't have so much confidence. And today I served better and of course outdoors suits my game more and I was more aggressive and I think I choose the right tactic, that was a change of something that's been working here.
Q. The conditions have been tricky for most of the players, with the wind and everything, but it seems like you for you, you were able to handle it pretty well. What was the key in just playing through those conditions?
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Yeah, it was not easy, but I just pushed myself to move my feet. That's basically all you can do when it's windy and, yeah, it worked pretty well.
Q. Two-time finalist here in Doha before, now back in the semi-finals, so can you just, what is it about this tournament that seems to suit your game?
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I mean I have amazing memories. It was my first time when I beat Justine here and it was like I was a kid, I was 19 and I was, in those two events, I raised from number 30 something to 13 or 14 and it was amazing. It was so long ago it was like my another life, but it really happened to me, I didn't watch it in the movies.
And here I'm back again in the semis. I didn't expect it that early. I've been working hard for this and it's nice that the work pays off.
Q. 13 years ago that you were last in the finals.
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Don't tell me that (laughing).
Q. Sorry.
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: It's like, almost like a kid who already going to school for some years, that's how long, 13 years.
But, you see, I would never imagine at this stage to be here and playing well and it's great, I'm happy, I'm blessed by my parents giving me such good health that I can continue playing and enjoying the game.
I thank them for choosing this game for me because I really enjoy it. It's not easy, it's very difficult, frustrating moments we face, but if you stay on your path and you work hard you can achieve.
Q. You obviously made the final in Cincinnati and now you're in the semi-finals of another Premier 5 event. How much positivity and confidence do you take out of the fact that it seems like there's a good level that you're hitting at this stage in your career?
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Yeah, I wish to hit it a little bit more times, be more consistent. But it's great. It's great that I'm playing and I can play and face the best players in the world and to enjoy the game.
And I can still do that, it's just, I think, a matter of consistency and motivation. And traveling a lot that's what's really hard for me.
Q. Was the motivation high to start 2020 or did you have to struggle with it in the off-season?
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I did great, but I got sick in Auckland. It was really frustrating to be one week in the bed after the flight. And basically I had been traveling for, training for a month, two month and you come to Auckland looking forward for the new year and you get illness.
And then I lost a little bit of the shape and I didn't play so well in Australian Open, but still I'm here and digging in there and just working hard.
Q. You said in St. Petersburg it was one of the first, not first times, but your father was there to --
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: First time.
Q. That was the first time --
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Yeah.
Q. -- in your career. What was that experience like and what did he say to you kind of throughout that week of getting to see you play live?
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: It's not easy to have relationship with your father as when he's a good coach, a great coach in different sport and he always push me a lot. And sometimes it's rough, it's really hard, but it's very important to face right these moments with the parents. Doesn't matter if you think it's wrong, they're doing it from a good heart. It's very important to understand and when you're young you don't.
And it was very special because I couldn't even talk, like I was almost crying. And it's great, I'm happy -- it's something which I had dream of in my bottom of the heart, I never could really say it out loud. But now I understand, then I didn't. So it's great he saw me once play and that's already enough (laughing).
Q. Looking ahead and playing Sabalenka in the semi-finals, what's the challenge for you playing a big hitter and she's playing pretty well while she's here?
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I mean I have nothing to lose. I love the game, I will enjoy it. She's very tough opponent, she's in great shape right now, I'm just going to dig in at the game and try and play well and I hopefully have chances.
Q. Maria, obviously announced her retirement yesterday and as somebody who has known her for a very long time what was your reaction to hearing the news?
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Well, I was thinking I was reading many articles. Many articles say something. And I was like, I have to come up with something interesting.
Thinking about Maria I cannot say it's -- each athlete deserves to take the time when they're ready to say good-bye and it's never easy. If you say it, like I'm playing the last year out loud, so everybody is like, Oh, it's last match here, last match there, it's very difficult.
Or to say it this way, it's everybody's choice and they have this right to do that.
Thinking about Maria, she was never very open and somebody took it as being arrogant or high level, like kind of lift your nose up.
I never thought so of her because I think it's just her way to defend herself and having her space, because everybody wanted something of her.
I think she's a great champion and she did it her way. She played her way, she win whatever she won and she's great athlete, a great champion.
I remember one moment, I don't know, it's always been in my memory, I was playing -- I'm not sure if I play in juniors already or WTA event in Miami -- and her dad and she was walking and I say, Okay, let me drive you and I drove them somewhere. And she was little kid and she already, like, and I been, I think I'd been playing pro, and she now is like stopped playing and I'm still playing. I feel very old right now.
But I wish her the best and I think she's very kind in heart and nice person. I wish her to be as successful in her life after career as she was in tennis. And if she needs it, if she wants to be happy, it's her right and I think happiness is the most important thing.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT