DONGFENG MOTOR WUHAN OPEN
September 30, 2016
Svetlana Kuznetsova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
D. CIBULKOVA/S. Kuznetsova   
3-6, 6-3, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What do you think made the difference in the end?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I think I struggle.  I think I should have won the game when I had 15-30.  She start missing.  I cannot really say some certain point.  Then my serve, she played two good points and I double-faulted.  I felt like I should have broken her in 4-All.   
But, I mean, overall I think I lost little bit my way when I got broken in second set because I felt like I was on top of the game after I won first set.  I felt like I was controlling.  I stopped a little bit or started to play different game and I lost the way.   
 Q.  She played two singles matched yesterday, won both.  Were you surprised at all that physically she was hanging in there in the third?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: No.  She started to miss that game at 4-All.  I mean, she played two matches.  I played also three hours.  I mean, everybody was a little bit tired, I guess.  Yeah, I mean, it's great because we're both in good physical condition.   
 Q.  What are the positives that you take after this week?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I'll have to sit and think about it.  It's a positive week, you know, to play semis here.  It's a good thing.  It's good consistency that I'm getting already to the semifinals, beating top-10 players, being in top 10.  I like it.  So next step is to go more for it.   
 Q.  How much were you feeling the two matches from yesterday in your body today?  You were tired from doubles, as well.  Physically how were you today?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I mean, I wasn't fast, but I couldn't complain.  Dominika played also two matches.  I wasn't at my best, but I was not at my worst.   
I felt better than I felt against Aga yesterday.  I felt better physically.  But I was not in my quickest day today, yeah.  But I still could have done better.   
 Q.  You haven't played her in a very long time.  I think last match was 2011.  Did she play the same way that you remember her playing or were there differences?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I struggle with the memory of the matches.  I don't bother to remember them.   
On the game, I think every day it's a new game, a new match.  She was attacking because she would figure out, like, it's the only chance, it would give her more points.  I was a little bit too passive and playing a little bit too short.   
 Q.  Do you think about the WTA Finals?  How significant is it making it there for you?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I think about it.  Yes, I think about it.  I don't mind.  I mean, I just try to play every match.  If in the end I get in there, it's good.  If not, I'm not going to die from that.  My life will still keep moving and everything will be great anyway.   
 Q.  We were talking to Steve Simon today about many different topics.  One of them is about speeding up the game.  One of the things he mentioned is in the doubles they put the no-ad scoring and the third set super tiebreak.  Do you imagine something drastic like this changing in the WTA for singles?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I think it would be horrible call, though.  For doubles they make it so singles players play it.  I think this is what gives you drive.   
I would take out five sets of men's, that's what I would do for sure.  I was thinking about it.  The men always say we shouldn't earn that money or whatever it is.  But I never watch one match from beginning to end of five sets.  They start and you say, I'll come back in fourth, fifth.  You turn the channel.  It's no point.  It's too hard for the guys.   
But three sets, deuce, advantage, this is the point of singles game.  I think it's very interesting and it's going to be physical and everything.  It's not only luck.  On doubles, it's so much luck sometimes.   
 Q.  I know you said you're not really thinking much about Singapore.  In general it's quite competitive at the moment.  Everybody is doing so well.  Does it bring any extra element of excitement?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: It's a lot of talk about it.  But people need to talk about something.  Now they figure out the Championship coming, people have chances.   
I don't look up to the rankings.  I don't look up to this thing.  I ask my coach sometimes, So this girl is playing, who we need to win?   
I don't really care.  It's just to talk.   
But I know the important thing is I go on the court and I try to win matches.  I don't want to focus I win or not, only going to be like that.  I hate to do that.  I just want to be happy and play my game.  That's it.   
 Q.  Can you talk about your week in Wuhan, compare Wuhan to other tournaments.  What makes this tournament so different from other ones?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I think for me it's one of the best organized tournaments over the circuit.  I've been here last year.  But this year I see huge improvement.  It's good indoor court here.  They have, in case, other good indoors for practice.  It's very difficult to play there matches.  But still everybody here, the people who work in the hotel and everywhere, venue, is so nice.   
To organize this in China, it should be so difficult.  So great job for organization of the tournament.  It's amazing.  Most of people talk English, which is amazing.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT