ROGERS CUP
July 29, 2016
Svetlana Kuznetsova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. HALEP/S. Kuznetsova   
3-6, 6-1, 6-1   
An interview with:   
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You had a great first set, then the momentum seemed to change.  What happened?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Yes, I played great.  I was really focused.  Yeah, I was really excited about first set.   
Then in second set I was a bit low energy and I missed balls.  My hands relax, they didn't move quite together.  Yeah, I did many unforced errors and gave her chance to go ahead.  Then I was just frustrated with myself and couldn't get it together.   
In the third set, in the first game, easy ball and I miss.  I think it was quite the turning point.  She got the break.   
Simona is one of top players.  If you give her chance to play, it's very difficult to go around later in the match.  That's what happen.  I think it was really difficult in third set to change her momentum.   
Yeah, I think my miss was in the second set.  I did quite terrible.   
 Q.  Next Monday you'll be in the top 10 for the first time since 2010.  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: No, I've been in the top 10 two weeks ago.   
 Q.  What does it mean to you to be back in the top 10 since 2010?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I mean, I feel like I'm getting there.  I play today great set.  I beat Petra yesterday.  I'm doing much better this year.  I'm winning good matches.  I feel like every week I'm there playing against best, having chances to beat them.   
I would like to be a bit higher, you know, to feel myself like one of the best players in the world.  Of course, it's a great thing, you know, after a long time to be back on top.   
Yeah, I've been struggling a couple years.  I was 25, 30 in the rankings.  Yeah, I almost got used to that.  Still I knew inside of me I could do so much better.   
I changed few things, talked to myself, end of last year, and I think everything working much better.  I'm much more mature.  Yeah, I try not to repeat mistakes of the past.   
 Q.  With the Williams sisters and Roger still playing, what do you see in your future?  Do you have five or six more years, a couple of years?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: You know, when I was 24, 23, I would say I would never play when I'm 30.  Now I don't want to say I won't play when I'm 35.   
You know what, I really love the game and I enjoy playing big stages, big tournaments.  When I do great, it comes smoother everything and better and easier.   
But the schedule is extremely tough for me, to have a break one month in the year.  In 16 years of my career, I played 15 seasons, full seasons, which I was resting like one, two weeks a year.  It's extremely hard to travel so many weeks in a row.  Doesn't matter if you win, you lose.  When you lose, it's more difficult.  When you win, it's a bit easier.  Still, it's extremely tough.   
I wish to stay more home.  That would be my first reason to quit, stay home a little bit more.  But I would like to play long, but I don't know for how long.   
 Q.  Where is home?  What would you see yourself doing after tennis?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: It makes me sad to think I won't be playing and competing, but it makes me happy I will sleep more than a month in a row in my bed and see my dog every day and my friends and I won't miss any more the birthdays and weddings and stuff like that.   
Now home for me is Moscow, but I don't know where I will be after I stop playing.  My life changes day-to-day so much.  I like different parts of the world.  It depends where I going to have family.   
But for sure I will do something with tennis, as well, helping and developing young kids to play, passing my experience to them, helping them out.  I think I have a good potential in that, as well.  Something to do with tennis.   
 Q.  Why do you think Russia is producing so many top players?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Because we are very mentally tough.  That's my thing.  Because nobody helps us.  Like in another Federations, I give you example, like I never had a deal until I was clothes deal.  I was No. 1 junior, I was top 10, I didn't have deal.  Nobody is interested in Russian.  Everybody interested in American, Canadian, French.  We have to go through difficult times no matter what.  Nobody except our family would help us.  We go through difficult times, but then we're mentally tough.   
 Q.  In Rio are you going to play singles and doubles?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I plan to play doubles and singles.   
 Q.  With who?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: With Daria.   
 Q.  Do you want to play mixed doubles?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I'm 31 (laughter).  I think I can, but no, I think it's just too much.   
 Q.  What are the plans for the next couple days?  Do you plan on resting one day?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I wish I would know.  Some people ask me, What you going to do next Sunday?   
I'm like, I don't know what I'm going to do tomorrow.  It's always, like, tennis about that.   
I had ticket yesterday to fly to Rio.  Now it's very difficult to find the flight.  Some girls are staying here, waiting till Monday.  They were smarter than me.  They book a ticket for Monday.  I'm waiting when I have a chance.   
I would like to practice couple days, I don't mind.  Maybe I would change my mood tomorrow morning and say, No, I want to rest.   
I'm waiting till my agent gets me a ticket to Rio.   
 Q.  Are you going to the opening ceremonies?  Do you want to go?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Not really.  I've been to one, Athens I believe.  We stood like in one huge covered place, very hot weather with all the athletes for one, two hours.  It's extremely hard to stay on your feet for so long.  Then you just walk once round.  You basically don't see nobody.  Everybody see us.  I see only the same company I've been in the room for three hours.   
I think no, because also next day we have games.  It's not like we have opening ceremonies and couple days.  I may play, like, next day.  Most probably no.  But I have in case with me the Russian outfit for the ceremony.   
 Q.  What are some of the positives you took out of this match with Simona?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I played amazing first set.  I think I played great.  I was in control.  I just lost little bit the momentum.  I think next time I just have to be focused in the first games, for example, of the second set.  I will stay with only positives.  I will try to get out all the negative.   
 Q.  When you bring a coach on, when there's a change, what words of wisdom is he giving to you at that point?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: My coach is very positive guy, much more positive than I am.  He said, Look, you've been playing great.  You just started to play game she likes without noticing that.  You got to try to go back to your game again and do this, do that.   
Yeah, he was just giving me positive thoughts.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT