ROLAND GARROS
May 27, 2016
Svetlana Kuznetsova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. KUZNETSOVA/A. Pavlyuchenkova   
6-1, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.   
 Q.  How do you feel about that?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: About what?   
 Q.  The match.  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: (Laughter.)  I feel about everything.  I'm not sure.  I feel a little bit -- I mean, I got messed up in the second set.  I was up I'm not sure how much, 3-1, 40-15, I guess, and then I was down 4-3.  I got tense and started to do weird things instead of playing the game I was playing.   
Yeah, that's it.  Then at 4-3 I came back to play long rallies and trying to move her around.  That's it.   
 Q.  You know who you're playing next?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Muguruza maybe.   
 Q.  Yeah.  Talk about her.  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: She's great player.  She plays really flat and aggressive game.  Yeah, she will be favorite because, I mean, just favorite.  I don't know why.   
But I just want to go out there and just try to play my game.   
 Q.  Big picture, how are you feeling about your game?  Seem to be doing quite well.  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I was better today because first matches I was extremely tense.  Today I said to myself, Look, you got to get out of this tense.  I got to just play my game, and whatever happens, my goal for this year was trying to enjoy the tennis.   
Since I got a bit better ranking and everything I start to be tense again, and I don't want it to happen.  I had a great nap in the locker room while the guys were playing five sets.  I was great.  I was feeling much better.   
So I said, Okay, I just go out there and I want to be happy.  That's the only thing I was concerned about.   
 Q.  You told me you don't like to look back about previous good things you've done, but when you're here are you able to perhaps draw some confidence from the fact you've within here before?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I mean, it been six years ago.  It's great memories, of course.  Yeah, I been in finals.  I been playing great here.  I just want to enjoy it.  You know, it's not -- I mean, it's great to know that I done great here, but I just want to look forward and try to do my best.   
 Q.  Until that moment at 6-1, 3-1, you played very well.  Does that also have a little bit to do with her game?  Maybe you like that kind of hard, flat hitting game, or do you just feel good going into the court from the beginning?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I think I just played smart.  I can play against any opponent.  I played smart.  I knew what I had to do and I completed it well.   
And then I just a bit rush because I was winning so -- I'm like, Really, I'm winning that good?  I just get a little bit nervous.  I get a little bit confused and start to play really short points.  That's not really what I had to do against Anastasia.   
Then I start to get back to the level I was playing.  But it was tricky.  I let my opponent get back in the match, and it was more difficult task to win then instead of winning when I was 3-1, 40-15.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I don't know the scoreboard, but yeah, I been leading.  Then at the point when she was 4-3 up I just had to shut it down the memory and I was thinking like, Look, you got to start over.  Doesn't matter already at this point.  Just to do the same.   
Because I'm better on clay, being and I have to focus on that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT