WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 18, 2019
Svetlana Kuznetsova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
M. KEYS/S. Kuznetsova   
7-5, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You served at 5-3 for both sets. Weren't able to get it done today. What were you able to make happen today?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I think I was supposed to be a little bit more aggressive. I think Madison served well, served much better than I did. But still, I had all the chances. Sometimes it goes this way, you know. The game is like this.   
Yeah, I served both times with the wind, and first set I did one easy mistake. Second time she played better, the game, but it was very even match. You know, it could go either way.   
 Q.  She's been a tough opponent for you in the past, also. What is it about her game that you have found challenging?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I mean, every time it's totally different match. Today I felt like not before -- before I didn't feel it, like I had chances. I had chances, everything.   
She hits the ball really good, but I don't see this pictures I didn't win against her before. I see it as today's match. Today we were very even. She was just more aggressive than I was. That's it.   
 Q.  Leaving Cincinnati now. You'll be ranked, I think, 62, which is almost a hundred spots better than when you came here. How nice is the feeling you leave Cincinnati after everything you accomplished here?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I mean, overall it's great week. You know, I have been beating great players. I feel great. You know, each match which I played three-setter could go either way. I'm happy I won most of them.   
The last one, okay, I was one step shorter. But maybe it's better this way. You know, as I'm trying to see positive in everything, it's more motivation for me for the future. I'm giving developing positive things. I want to have day or two rest and just to get ready for the Open. It's new challenge. That's it.   
 Q.  How tough were the conditions out there today? Very hot, very humid. You were dealing with the breeze that was on the court. Did you guys have to adjust or did you have to adjust to how you wanted to play your game because of any of that?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Yeah, of course. Yeah, I served both times when I was serving for the set from the one with the breeze. Theoretically it was easier, but then I did some unforced errors I shouldn't do. Madison took control of some points.   
It was really hot for me for warmup, but when I went on the court, I always forget about how hot is that. I'd rather play in really hot weather than cold. I was okay.   
 Q.  Can you talk about getting ready for the US Open, considering how well you have played? Is there maybe in your mind a round that you'd like to reach and to be happy?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I never set rounds for myself. I never say that I want to win a slam or whatever. I just want to be the best I can be and play each match.   
I can draw any player in the first round, so wish me luck in the draw. And after, we'll see.   
 Q.  It's been 15 years since you won the US Open, and here you are runner-up at Cincinnati. What dos that feel like to you? Did you expect that?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: You know, it feels weird when players like Dasha come to me and say, You know it's been 15 years since you win the US Open, she's laughing. I'm, like, What's so funny about that? It's like it's been decade. Probably you were just trying to speak this time when I won that (smiling).   
I mean, this life, you know, for them it's funny. For me, it's really long thing. It's a lot of work. It's great. Honestly I didn't expect to be so good at this tournament, but I really enjoy it and I'm really happy. This all what matters for me.   
 Q.  Fourth time you have played her. Anything change -- they are all different matches -- but with respect to today's game plan as opposed to other ones as a result of how well you're playing this week versus her?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Oh, I don't -- when I saw I lost to her three times, I won't even remember. Like, this is good about me. I don't remember anything like good or bad, but my memory is like Dory from 'Looking for Nemo.' I'm totally Dory on this.   
I remember one time in Sydney she killed me with her strokes, but now, as I was feeling I'm moving well and I'm confident in my movement. I don't know. It was new match. Of course it changed everything. I felt like I had chances, and it motivates me to play her next time, because I see the things what I can change in the future. I felt like if I would play two more sets I would have more chances (smiling).   
 Q.  You said we should wish you luck in the draw, which we do. I'm curious if you think other players should be afraid of you now.  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I don't think anything. I'm just thinking about preparing myself and be at my best. But of course for seeded players I won't be the most preferred first round.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT