APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 13, 2016
Svetlana Kuznetsova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. KUZNETSOVA/S. Errani   
7-6, 6-0   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  A lot of time in the heat today.  You sure you up to the semifinal tomorrow?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Yeah.  I mean, doubles it was not so much of movement.  Yeah, I miss the times when you play one match behind another one and next day you have to go again.   
It's great.  You know, it's great that I win some matches.  It's great preparation.  It's great start of the year.   
So I'm already very positive and happy with that.   
 Q.  I was going to say, last year you were out first round Auckland, Sydney, Melbourne.  Here through to the semifinals.  Anything different?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: You see, I never watch it that way.  If I would watch it I would be damaged.   
But, no I still feel happy.  I try always to stay like that.  If not, with our life you'll go nuts.  I prepared well in December I think, and I mean, it's little, small things that matter the most.  Sometimes they're not about you, you know.   
So you just have to carry on and try to do your best.  That's what I been working on.  And just to be a little bit more consistent day by day.   
 Q.  Halep next.  How much do you know about her?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Oh, definitely.  She's No. 2 in the world, I believe.  I practice with her.  I mean, she's extremely tough.  She doesn't out of power you, but then she's really smart player.  She takes all advantages on the court and reads the game well.   
It's going to be tough one, and I'm really looking forward to improve every game.   
 Q.  I think you played her three, four years ago.  Has she changed?  Gotten better a lot or the last couple years?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I believe she started to be more consistent, you know.  I think she has like many issues like health issues, because I was supposed to practice with her in Dubai and she got sick.  Then sometimes she get injury to something.   
But when she plays well, she always goes deep in the tournament.  She's really consistent player for me.  I think she improved in that a lot.  I believe that first year when she played really well, next year she had a really low start, low playing.   
I don't remember her rankings and stuff like this, but I think she just got much more consistent.   
 Q.  Do you remember Roland Garros 2014 quarterfinals; she beat you easily.  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Yeah.  The thing is with me, it's not so much against about another player.  With all the respect to all players I play, it depends a lot on me.  So I mean, that day she was great, but I was out of that.   
You know, the game, it's 50/50.   
 Q.  Mentally or physically?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Oh, I don't remember now, but I remember I was feeling so bad about myself, about my game, about the pressure, you know.   
But was good by then.  She just improved, yeah.  I think it's also about believing in yourself and each game of each player.   
 Q.  How satisfying is that you were in the finals here in '08 and semis in '06, and here you are back in the semifinals in 2016.  Is that personally satisfying for you with that longevity?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: You know, I was going to Australia, coming here, and I was like, Oh, it's great, one more year.  Great pre-season.  I don't like to set goals, but so far to be in semifinals the second tournament of the year is great.  Especially for me that I am slow starter until I get so many matches under my belt.   
So I am just feel happy I can play, and to do well is nice.   
 Q.  You won Moscow at the end the year.  Have to very happy about that.  Why did that happen?  You weren't playing all the time.  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: You know, Moscow get my confidence in the end of the year, so probably that's why also an easier start this year.  I still remember the feeling playing good and comfortable against players on the court.   
To explain something why it's really hard, you know.  First of all, I didn't want to play Moscow.  I was in China three, four weeks.  I was just like, Oh, my God.  I can't wait until this season will be over.   
But then I came back home and I was like, Okay, it's one of my favorite events.  I would like to play it.  Last moment I decide, Okay, I'll play.   
Then when I get win and win and win, and when you win, and then they offer me to go to Zhuhai to play.  I was like, Okay, I'll go to Zhuhai.  So in end of year I was just going with the flow.  Whatever wind was blowing I was going.   
So it just happen like that.  I don't know.  I just decided that it's easier for me than force something.   
 Q.  During the off-season you didn't change anything, anything that was big?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Off-season I just decided that I have to start really slow and really not push for a lot, because that what I been struggling a lot.  I try to train too much and go for a lot.  And here me and Carlos, we decide that, look, we just take it easy, do a plan.   
I couldn't find a fitness coach like last moment so I said, Okay, I going to do preparation by myself.  I mean, we just sat down.  I told my views on the pre-season to Carlos and he said his, and he supported me all the way.  So I really appreciate him for his support.   
Yeah, we just worked easily, quietly, and just taking care.  Again, I push it too much in the third week.  Still I was trying to keep it slow.   
 Q.  So you're feeling comfortable in your body now?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: After 30, playing so many matches you don't feel that comfortable, but do I feel good.   
 Q.  So just with Carlos now?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: No, Carlos, Hernan Gumy, and Anastasia Myskina.  Three.   
 Q.  They're all here already?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: No, no, no.  They all work separate.  I cannot afford three coaches at the same time.  I can't afford even two at the same time.  (Smiling.)   
I divide my coaches -- and they are happy with that, of course -- by the zones.  Like Hernan does States, all States swings.  Anastasia does Moscow and all around Moscow, like Doha, Dubai as well.   
And Carlos does the rest.   
 Q.  You went to Fed Cup final and you did not play.  They maybe could have used you.  That was Anastasia decision.  She's your friend, so...  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: It's very hard question which I cannot really answer.  I'm sorry.   
 Q.  But you came there and thought about it.  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Yes.   
 Q.  And you would've played?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I was there to support the team.   
 Q.  That was it?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: (Shrugging.)   
 Q.  You thought maybe you were going to play?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I don't know.   
 Q.  Without you they lost.  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Stop it.  I cannot answer that questions.  I always stay behind Anastasia and whatever she does and whatever she did.  She got so much criticize from Tarpischev and I think it's so wrong.  I think she does great job.  To get united all the girls, it's amazing.   
I didn't feel better atmosphere than with her in the team in whole my career.   
 Q.  Did 'Nastia say after it was over, I'm sorry; I should have brought you in?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: It was not up to discussion.  It's not about -- I'm not saying that I stay behind her decision that it was her decision.  I didn't say that.  I'm just saying that she done a great job, and I'm actually -- don't twist my words later.  I make sure.   
She did a great job over all year.  We could have been out in Poland.  We could have been out against Germany.  We made to the to final.  I think it's great.  She does unbelievable work.  She unites all the girls.  It's great atmosphere.  Maria is not playing all the time, and when she played it was great.  She was comfortable.  Everybody on the team was comfortable.   
I think this is the most important thing.  We are the team, and it's best.  The girls in Czech, they played really well and deserve to win.   
 Q.  Did you feel bad for Pavlyuchenkova though?  She lost all three.  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: It's tennis.  I mean, you feel bad for me that I didn't win more slams or something?  You feel good that you win two slams.  That's what I'm saying.  Other girls that were playing, they were very good.   
Of course you feel probably crap when you lose three matches, but it's happens.  It's not her fault.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT