HUAJIN SECURITIES WTA ELITE TROPHY ZHUHAI
November 5, 2015
Svetlana Kuznetsova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. KUZNETSOVA/C. Wozniacki
  7‑5, 2‑2 (ret.) 
  
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
   
 Q. That was a pretty great comeback in the first set down 2‑5. Talk about how you were able to turn that around. Were you surprised that the match ended the way that it did?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: First of all, I didn't realize it was 5‑2. I mean, I kept playing and then I just‑‑ I knew it's one break. So, I mean, for you maybe it's 5‑2; for me it's one break.  
I managed to break, and then I was like just playing. I found better game. I think I found how better to play her. I correct some mistakes what I been doing and figure out it was going my way.  
Then Anastasia came to the court and she told me, Oh, it's great from 5‑2. I was like, Oh, really? It was 5‑2? I was just feeling great. Much better than I expected.   
   
 Q. What is it like having Anastasia as a coach? What specifically is she helping you with?   
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I mean, it's great atmosphere overall. We have so much fun. Like when they offer me to come here, I look at Anastasia and I said, Look, if you go with me I go; if you don't go I don't go. Because I'm not going to go somewhere for one week by myself.   
I mean, we had so much fun in Moscow during Kremlin Cup. She was helping me a lot. She's very wise. I like that she knows me and feels me. It took her time also to adjust; for me as well to adjust to her.  
And it's great. You know, she knows me. She feels. She gives good advices. I also feel responsible, because she came one week and left her three kids back home. I have to‑‑ you know, I have to play, because sometimes you're like I'm a bit lazy, whatever. You got to do that. So she kind of push me more.   
   
 Q. What is the situation now with Fed Cup? Do you know?   
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Last night we were in Periscope. Do you know Periscope?   
   
 Q. I do.   
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: We were there last night there for one hour and got to like 30 questions about that. We had different questions, more strange ones as well.  
What we say, the most famous answer is Anastasia is going to talk to me after that, but I'm not in the team. I promise her to go and support the team, which I will do. I have ticket on Thursday to fly to Prague.   
After we're done here we'll talk and see what's better.   
   
 Q. How do you see the tie going in terms of is it going to come down to singles? Doubles? How do you see it playing out?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: So hard. It's who writes newspaper has work to do. I see it's going to be tough one. We lost close one to Czech in Moscow, and it's going to be tough. I mean, the Czechs playing back home, it's going to be crazy crowd there, I think.  
But we been in, for example, Poland this year as well. But Maria been playing well. Petra not always consistent, but playing amazing when she's on the top. Lucie is a there.  
I mean, it's going to be interesting. I think we have chances. On the paper I don't know who is favorite. The you got to look at the records. I have no clue.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT