ROLAND GARROS
June 4, 2014
Svetlana Kuznetsova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. HALEP/S. Kuznetsova
      6‑2, 6‑2 
  
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please.   
   
 Q.   It's very difficult to play against Halep.   What was the difficult point to play?  
    SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:   I think she played overall a very good match, solid.   I had chances in the first set.   Like it went 6‑2, but I think it was a lot of close games.   It was lots of deuces.   It was very tricky to play today with the wind and everything.   
    I think Simona played very good.   I was not at my best in everything a little.  
   
 Q.   There was one point in the second set where you applauded one of her shots.   She seemed to wrong foot you or catch you off balance a few times with her game.   Do you think the timing of her strokes is very good?  
    SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:   I was not at my best, as I said.   She plays always very smart tennis.   She doesn't overpower you.   She takes off the speed very well.   
    I know what point you're talking about, but, I mean, it was few points I wasn't ‑‑it's like when some ‑‑it's very important to play well in the key points.   I didn't do it today.   I was not in my best in my movement, so it matters a lot on this surface and against Simona.  
   
 Q.   In the first set at 4‑2, there was a point where you stretched to the backhand side and your foot slipped.   Is that where you hurt your leg, or was that something that came up later in the match?  
    SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:   I think overall the court was not the best to play on, but I know the point you're talking about.   No, it was at some other point.   I don't know what exactly ‑‑actually, I pulled the leg on the Safarova game in the start of the match, and then I was struggling with the pain.   
    I managed to do it without physical in the Safarova match, but today it got worse, I believe.   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   You think that the rain delay affected your game today?  
    SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:   It's very hard to say, you know.   I mean, you can put many excuses or whatever, but I think the key is that Simona was at her best.   I think she played quite good today.   My movement was not perfect.   The shots was not so good.   
    Mine was 30, 40%; hers was 70, 80.   So that's plenty of difference for me.  
   
 Q.   Do you think she can win the tournament?  
    SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:   It's not my thing to predict.   I think it's your job.   So you do it.  
   
 Q.   I mean, from what you have seen in the semifinal, do you think she's good enough to beat Bouchard or ‑‑sorry, Petkovic?   
    SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:   As I said, it's the same question.   You just did it around.   I told you I don't do the calls who gonna win.   You can write whatever you think.  
    But players, matches, you never expect ‑‑you never know how players face each other.   It's a new story totally.   I think when you get to semifinals everybody has the potential to win a trophy.   
   
 Q.   How do you feel about just, you know, back in the quarterfinals of a slam?   Just your progress, your clay season has been...   
    SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:   I mean, it's been quite ‑‑now, I mean, I'm very disappointed with today's performance, but overall I feel ‑‑I played matches finally, because I have been injured or something happened to me.   Every time was something going on.   So finally I feel like kind of back on the road.  
    Yeah, it's quite good, you know.   For sure I can play well and better, but I cannot expect solid start without winning anything in the start of the season.  
    I'm on the right path and going better, so I will keep on working.   I definitely know I don't have like ‑‑like some people told me why I don't keep playing tennis.   You're not winning.   
    Because I feel I have potential.  
   
 Q.   Did you feel in the match like today from the very beginning you were just going to be off?   Could you feel that from the start?  
    SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:   You know, I mean, 2‑Love she was up, and then it was maybe 2‑2.   I felt like I was not feeling the ball so well as I would prefer, yeah, for sure.   
    But I fight, and you give whatever you can.   I struggled to play my best today, because it was far from that.  
    But it was difficult.  
   
 Q.   The injury was thigh?   Hamstring?   
    SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:   It was adductor hamstring.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT