WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 17, 2019
Svetlana Kuznetsova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. KUZNETSOVA/A. Barty
6-2, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. A slow start and then you won eight games in a row.  What were you able to figure out in her game and successfully execute?
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Well, all my players I faced this tournament was very different games.  Ashleigh's game is really different.  It's kind of the game I play, I think, more similar.  And I just was trying to figure out.
I didn't play well on my serve but I started to play the game and trying to read her game.  So I thought I could read it pretty well.
Q. Ashleigh said even though you're very versatile and very creative, you played the best in moments where you were straightforward.  Would you agree with that?
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I didn't understand.  I was playing my best...
Q. She said you are normally very creative, but today you were especially good in moments when you were playing very straightforward tennis.
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I don't know.  I felt like I was kind of in control of the match because I'm moving well, bringing every ball back, playing very consistent.  Definitely is bringing more pressure to my opponent.  I could read her game well and was really stable in my game.  I thought it was the key.
Q. At this stage of your career, how hard is it to play someone you have never played before?
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I always struggle with that.  I never can figure out straightaway.  Maybe I'm not the best in figure out straight, like, how the player plays.
Like Yastremska, I played her first time.  It took me a set or more to figure out.  As soon as I get the player, it's easier.
Q. You mentioned I think before when you were talking about your visa problems that you were going to drop in the rankings or you weren't sure if this means you had to stop playing.  Curious if you feel like this tournament has sort of saved your career?  Your ranking has gone way, way, way up after this.
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Well, sometimes in life it's like this.  It's like really small things change everything.  Definitely it's different momentum I have now.
I was coming here trying to enjoy the tennis, and I still have the same goal.  Taking losses not so hard on myself, as the wins as well.  Yeah, I'm really happy I'm in the finals, but it's not so happy or end of the life if I lose or amazing.
I'm still happy person.  I enjoy what I do.  And this is the main thing, to stay stable everywhere in the life.
Q. You mentioned on court that Venus had helped you get the wildcard?  What was the story?
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: No, I always, like, when I apply to top 20 wildcard, like Azarenka and Venus, they always get in the top 20 wildcard.  So if one of them gets in, then I have a chance for top 20 wildcard.
In Toronto was the same thing, like I got the visa last moment, on Tuesday, so I took a plane on Wednesday.  And one player pulled out, so Venus got in and I got the wildcard so I didn't have to play quallies.
And the same thing here happened.  So I texted the tournament director if I could get wildcard for quallies, because I was not making quallies on my ranking.
They were giving wildcards to American girls, which is normal.  Then Venus got in, and I got the wildcard (smiling).
Q. Are you happy when Venus wins matches too?  Her ranking goes up, helps your chances of getting wildcards also?
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: In some way, yes, but I'm more focused on myself.  I know if I have good level and get in my matches, I won't need to Venus win matches.  I will just be on my own (smiling).
Q. You have never beaten three top 10 players at a tournament before.
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I never been in the finals of Cincinnati, either.
Q. How does it feel to come back and still be crossing things off of things that you have never done before?
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: As they say, it's always something for the first time.  No, really, I'm really happy.  I think I have analyzed all my mistakes.  I'm not really analyzing person, but somehow, like, on my intuition, I'm doing so much better, not repeating so many of my mistakes.  Just playing smarter and wiser now.  At 34 I should start, I think (smiling).
Q. At set point in the first set, you ran around that forehand on serve and returned it down the line.  That's not a shot decision that we see often.  I'm curious what went into that idea.
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I always love that shot.  Just in Spain they teach me to go crosscourt.  They say it's more stable.  And the thing is why Russian people go so well with Spanish tennis, because we are, like, really crazy and really go 100% and risk it.  Spanish, they put us calmer.
So there I was going for Russian way.  Sometimes I put patience but then something Russian comes out.  You cannot hold it all the time (smiling).
Q. You held serve at Love three times in the second set.  Was it more your serving or just a complete read of her game where you wanted to go pick your spots for that?
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I made the break, and, you know, when you feel like you're in control of the match, you start to be worried not to relax, so I was trying to focus on my serve.
I was not playing her serve so well.  For me, I was making too many easy mistakes on return.  And my serve, I'm not serving 100% at the moment because I got injured in the start of this tournament, so I had to figure out how I can push up for the serve so I don't get hurt more.  So I'm kind of changing my serve a little bit, but it looks like it's working better.
Q. You said Russian mentality is taking risks.  So what do you think makes that kind of mentality?  Is it culture, running in the DNA?
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: DNA?  In Russia we say believe today and not tomorrow.  So some people can have not much money but they will spend everything today.  We say we don't take money to the grave.  You never know.
It's something you have to enjoy today.  We go crazy.  We go for everything.  So sometimes patience works good.  I think it's a culture, it's in DNA, it's in everything.  Also in the environment, where you live in Russia and how the times are tough, you don't know what's gonna be tomorrow, if it's gonna happen.  So you rather have something good today.
Q. Do you plan on taking money to the grave?
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: It's very difficult question.  I fight it.  I fight it.  I want to live today and I want to live tomorrow.  It's like angel and other guy, bad guy, is there fighting in my head.
Q. What was it like to learn the Spanish way of playing?  Was that difficult?
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: It's frustrating, because it's very easy for me to play the Spanish way, but it's frustrating why I play Spanish way, win so easy, cannot play hard way.  Then I start to be like everybody.  So I learn a lot from it, and it gave me everything I have.  It's my game.
Q. On the court, do you think in Russian or Spanish?
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I don't know.  I think everything on the court.  But the thing is what I found out really that I cannot work with people who speak Russian, because I speak Spanish tennis in my head.
So when coach tells me something, Russian coach, first of all, they don't get my game, with all the respect.  Russians don't get what the Spanish want to play, like topspin, forehands.  Spanish don't get Russian ways.
I came to Spain when I was 14 and they taught me everything.  I speak Spanish tennis in my head.  I won't understand the language of Russian coaches, like, it's different.
Q. You told us recently that nothing really surprises you in tennis anymore because you have been around so long.  Do you still feel that way after this week?
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Yeah.  Doesn't surprise me.
Q. Is that something that comes naturally to you, or is that, like, a strategy you have adopted to kind of deal with this career?
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I just go with the flow.  That's it.  I just go if it comes as I feel.  I learn so much to trust what I feel.  This was the main things what fighting inside of me.  When I start to listen to myself, things start to get better.
Q. Do you talk to Dasha about kind of that Russian/Spanish thing a lot?  Because she seems to kind of have a similar thing of wanting to play instinct, wanting to play the crazy shots, and everybody thinks, oh, you need to balance a simpler way with your creativity.  Do you talk to her about that?
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: No, not really, because I was in Spain since 14, so I know all the ways of Spanish tennis and she just started with Carlos.  We didn't have that much time, either.  But maybe one day, I offered her my help if she needs it, so we can talk and I can maybe help her if she needs, of course.
Q. I read that while you were looking after your knee injury you decided to stop rushing and take your time with things and not go to the next tournament quickly.  I'm curious how that has helped you.
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: It's been so many different things when I was off, so I just enjoy time off.  Honestly, I was not missing at all traveling and all the stress when you play tournaments.
But now I have missed it and I feel good.  I feel joy staying here and being here.  Definitely helped me to have some time off to see other things out of tennis, because when you learn more you can bring more to your work, to your job.
Q. A question about your racquet.  It's quite special.  Not many players play with the yellow Head racquet.  Maybe only Gasquet is the one I can think of.
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Youzhny used to play.
Q. But now I don't see it that often.  Is it something special?
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Maybe it's the racquet which wins for me.  I don't know.  I mean, I play with this racquet for so long, so I just love it.  It gives me control and everything.  And the power and the spin.  So basically plays for itself.
Q. You have worn that shirt quite a bit this week.
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I just bought whatever was in the store.
Q. Just looking ahead, you play either Madison or Sofia Kenin.  Can you talk about each one of those matchups in the final.
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Madison is extremely tough.  When she's on fire, it's really hard to play against her.  It's going to be difficult matchup against both of them.  I think Madison is a little bit harder hitter, more aggressive.
Kenin, I never played.  I practiced with her couple of times.  I don't have much clue about her game.
Q. Kenin might be a mix of Russian tennis and American tennis.  Curious what that combination is like compared to the Russian/Spanish.
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Well, everybody has a different mess in the head.  I have my mess.  Everybody's playing different.  Kenin probably has less mess in the head.  She's playing great, winning lots of matches.
Both opponents are really tough, and I respect both of them.  Looking just forward to play another great match.
Q. Statistically Keys has the hardest ball, hits the hardest.  Does that feel like that as a player, or are there other players...
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Well, Pliskova hits hard.  Serena hits hard.  I don't know.  I don't follow statistics, honestly.  I try to follow the ball, but she hits really hard.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT