ROLAND GARROS
May 31, 2014
Svetlana Kuznetsova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. KUZNETSOVA/P. Kvitova
      6‑7, 6‑1, 9‑7

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please. 

Q.   So what is it with you and these long three‑set matches at majors?   You seem to get stuck in them all the time. 
    SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:   I don't know (smiling).   Just matches, you know.   I just ‑‑it was unbelievable match.   I didn't enjoy it on myself out there. 
    I'm not sure, you know.   Four hours 44 minutes, wish this one would be way shorter.   But still, you know, I think I run twice more than Petra out there today.

Q.   Did you feel going into today's match that you were due for a big win?   You have come so close the last few weeks of getting that big win over a big player, Radwanska or other players.   Did you feel almost like you were due?
    SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:   I knew I was going out there, and I was going to give everything I could and run every mile, every meter I could, and put as many balls back, be aggressive, try to be aggressive, I mean.   Because if you watch the match, Petra was inside the court and I was next to the fans.
    But I just tried, you know, my best.   I didn't think if I win or if I lose, you know, for me it was a matter to give my best.   I think I have done.
    I left out there everything I could.   And, yeah, I mean, I come up with a win, you know, but I was very close to the loss, as well.
    I was very strong mentally and really happy with that.

Q.   The top three seeds are out of this tournament, and the draw looks pretty open.   Does this victory give you the confidence to believe that you could be one of the contenders for the title?
    SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:   I don't care who is contender, who is not.
    You know, I just try to play my best, and you never know how it will go.   This is my one favorite tournament, I can play very well here.   Just focus on the net. 
    Many other girls are playing extremely well, and you never know who can win the title.

Q.   Was it difficult to stay focused after the medical timeout?   How did you handle that?   Because it was quite long. 
    SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:   I mean, yes, but this is part of the tennis.   Player can take medical, player can take toilet break, whatever.   It's important not to let it go into your head and just keep stay focused and that's it.

Q.   What were you thinking on the first match point when Petra hit the line with that volley?
    SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:   Oh, that volley was quite tricky one.   I mean, she went for it, and it went her way.
    I couldn't have done anything, you know.   It's better that she went and she made line that I missed some sitter.   I prefer that, you know, because you're like, I should have won the match already.
    But there I think that this ball meant to go out the way she hit it, but it catch the line.   Second match point, she went for it, you know.   I played a decent shot, and she just went and she won.
    The match turned around many times, and I just hang in there and did my best.   Today I went with the win.

Q.   As you said, you ran a lot and your defense today was incredible.   You must be particularly proud of that.   Physically are you feeling good after a match like this?
    SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:   Yeah, I feel really good.   I feel really excited, happy.   I really feel almost like Rafa out there, you know (smiling). 
    The difference is I cannot make winners from that far behind, so I have to go inside a little bit. 

Q.   What is the mentality when you play Petra?   I mean, she's such a big hitter of the ball, she can a lot of times take the racquet out of your hand.   So mentally how did you go into this match? 
    SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:   Yeah.   As I said, I have to put as many balls back as I could to try to be consistent, because Petra made some unbelievable shots.   Sometimes it's just out of my hand to do something.
    So what I could have, what I could have and could put more balls in the court, this is I have to take my chances, my possibility.
    Sometimes I just don't have chances, and I have to, you know, to agree with that and just to keep playing and playing.
    I have a more comfortable game with Petra on the clay, because it's my favorite surface and her probably less favorite.

Q.   You have such a good record here.   Every time you come to Paris, do you feel like you're capable of winning the whole thing?
    SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:   I never think about it, because it's like ‑‑well, actually, when I was like a little bit younger, I don't think I'm like very old yet, but I was coming here and I was feeling, Oh, I'm such good shape, I have a plan, I have a chance.   I would lose quarters in even earlier stage. 
    So I feel as the years go by just try to play good each match and I don't have to start the tournament in the high note and to play well.
    So for me it's important just go match by match.   You know, to think about how the tournament will go, it's not worth it, because the worst thing what I have to do to make it work.   That's it.
    I try not to think.

Q.   I believe you get to play another lefty in your next match, Lucie Safarova.   I guess at least you got a good practice against a lefty. 
    SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:   Yeah, it was quite a lot practice, quite physically winning that match and I have another lefty.   It's quite all right. 
    You know, I prefer to play one by one, lefties than to have righty, lefty, righty. 
    I'm really excited to play Lucie.   Lucie had unbelievable matches this year against top players.   She was very close with Na Li in Australia, some close matches with Maria on clay. 
    She plays unbelievable well and is going to be another tough one.   And I try to be ready to run as much, and maybe even more, and to be a little bit more aggressive.

Q.   Coming into this French Open, compared to the last two or three, mentally do you feel fresher this year?   No, yes? 
    SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:   What happen ‑‑I don't remember.

Q.   I'm asking you. 
    SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:   I have been so many Roland Garros, so many Grand Slams, I don't remember.
    I feel all right, you know.   I feel that I have a lot of experience.   I have been through a lot.
    When I go into slam like Roland Garros, I would like to enjoy it, you know.   This is my main thing.
    Today I really enjoyed the crowd, the atmosphere, the Philippe Chatrier, it's one of the best courts to play on.   In the end, it was packed. 
    This is, as a player, I can't ask for more.   These are the moments you live for as a player.

Q.   This is a bit silly, but I don't know if you've realized that you had five years between your first two slams and now it's five years. 
    SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:   Yeah, I know (smiling). 

Q.   Have you realized that?
    SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:   I don't mind about it, but I did it every time on Instagram, everybody talks about it, but it's still too far, still third round.   I prefer to leave it out there.

Q.   Sometimes with players who achieve success at such a young age and you're a very talented player, pure talent ‑‑
    SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:   Thank you.   Only talent, that's it? 

Q.   That's where I'm going.   So you're a very talented player.   You won early.   When you look back on your career, do you think that there were ever decisions that you made about your career after that that maybe you regret, almost like, Oh, I won a slam.   Was there work ethic issues after that?   Were you always a hard worker, always focused, professional?   When you look back on your career, were there ever decisions that you regretted?
    SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:   You want me to tell I was unprofessional at some stage? 

Q.   No, I'm asking.   Some players think they were. 
    SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:   Of course, we are humans.   We are not machines.   If I would be a machine I would be No. 1 for ten years, better than Serena.   But here I am, I have won two slams, but I have been No. 2; I have not been No. 1. 
    But I mean, I try to look in the life as it goes, you know.   Whatever comes, I'm happy to play tennis, I'm happy to be where I am.
    Of course I could have been better, and of course I could have been worse.   You never know where it goes.
    I try to look at things positive.   Yes, maybe I would done something different in my career, but you never know how it would been going if I would change my mind before.
    So I'm here right now, and I'm thinking from now on, but of course I never been perfect.   I have done some wrong things, but it's as experience.

Q.   It's been five years since you won the French Open the last time.   The player you played against on the final of a French Open is Dinara.   Recently she retired.   So of course she hasn't been on the tour for a couple of years.   But still, what are your thoughts on her retirement?
    SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:   I mean, I never been close with Dinara.   I mean, we have respect for each other, we are kind of friends, what you can call friendship between tennis players and rivals for whole life, we are kind of this. 
    I mean, I feel sorry because I think she could have played longer, but unfortunately her injuries didn't let her do that. 
    I mean, I hope she can reach happiness outside of the court and just wish her all the best.   I mean, I wish she could have played more so we can have more battles. 
    But sometimes life is like this, so that's why you have to live every moment the best you can on the court or anywhere in your life.   You never know what's gonna happen tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT