BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 8, 2013
Svetlana Kuznetsova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. KUZNETSOVA/J. Jankovic
  0‑6, 6‑2, 7‑5 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Was it difficult with those conditions?   It's remarkably cold today, and it seemed like it took you a while to get warmed up and going.   
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:   Well, for me it's very difficult to play in cold weather because even I tried to play in the long tight pants first set, I cannot.   I think I can do it every time I go and try, and I know I cannot play in anything ‑‑ wearing anything, because it's just not comfortable.   
I can practice in it without problem, but when I have matches I always start to lose and I have to take it off and then all the things changes.   I don't think I started to win because of my pants, but still, I was not moving.   (Smiling.)  
I just had to change things.  
   
 Q.   Were you thinking about it after the first set?   Were you saying, I cannot win this match actually if I keep these pants on?   Was it that bad?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:   You know, I thought it was ‑‑they are very tight, so they were kind of pushing my stomach so I was not so much comfortable.   It was not bothering me like so much, but after I took it off I was feeling a little bit looser.   So it's a little bit funny.   Yeah, it's just the pants, but I don't blame them.   I mean, it's all because of me.  
   
 Q.   You must really hate cycling pants.   
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:   Yes, I do.   I don't like cycling either.   I tell you, it goes a lot in my family, but I'm happy I'm playing tennis.  
   
 Q.   You played her a lot of close matches.   It's a pretty good rivalry, no, between and you her?   
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:   Yes, definitely.   We always have long rallies, and when you sit down in your head is going like, It's still very hard.   I'm know I can win it, but it's going to be double harder.   She's still going to be there, she is still going to put balls back.   But I made it and I'm pretty happy with it.  
   
 Q.   When you play somebody you have played so many times and you know her game very well and she knows your game very well, is it more pressure to play against a player like that because you're familiar with her game, or is it less pressure?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:   No, it's no pressure.   I mean, I had no pressure.   She's seeded; I'm not seeded.   I have no pressure this year at all.   
Overall, I was thinking that I don't want to have any pressure in my life, that I feel much better without pressure.   But I will try to keep this way things, but I always think that I come on the court it's going to depend on me and on my game.   
I was pretty bad in the first set, but I managed to change it.   So I'm pretty happy with it.   But I have to change the start.  
   
 Q.   Can you really feel that, you know, you have no pressure when you're double Grand Slam champion even if you're not seeded?   Do you see yourself that way?   
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:   Overall, I feel pressure you put on yourself.   No one puts pressure on you.   I mean, maybe some of your team or whoever, close people to you.   
But pressure of what?   If we think like this, pressure to win, to lose, I don't have to prove anything to no one.   Only to myself.   To myself I only want to give my best.   If I give my best and another player beats me, it's fine.   
It just disappoints me when I don't do anything like in the first set.   I was really, really frustrated.   But I had to keep it down, because otherwise I would lose it.   
   
 Q.   How do you feel about playing here?   You have had some good success getting to two finals, but then a little bit after that you had struggles early on.   How do you feel about playing here in Indian Wells?   Has it been a good place for you or not so good place for you lately?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:   You know, other day I was on the radio and they ask, What do you like and what do you not like in Indian Wells?   When I was younger it was too boring for me, this place.   Now I enjoy actually the tranquility of here.   Just everything is fine.   
For me, whole my career is so much ups and downs and I am just used to it, so just going along with it.   Just try to do my best this year wherever I can.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel this is a place where you can play some of your best tennis?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:   I believe I can play good anywhere, and I can play bad actually in the same way.   (Laughter.)  
Not actually in the same way, but I still keep it there.   Bad loses not maybe many people remember, but the wins, it always counts.  
   
 Q.   Do you still feel that the match is on your racquet, generally speaking, whoever you're playing?   Are there a few players where you don't really feel it's on your racquet?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:   It depends on my day, actually.   (Smiling.)  
It's the way it is, you know.   I mean, there is players like Jelena that are consistent, and there are players like me kind of shining and sometimes low days.   
But me, it's always try to maintain some level.   So far this season I was quite good with it, so...   
   
 Q.   Have you surprised yourself so far in this season, having come back from the knee injury and everything?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:   No, not surprise.   I'm just too very calm right now and just enjoying every moment.   I start to enjoy again the tennis.   This is for me the most important.  
   
 Q.   I was talking to another player last week who told me, a guy, that they were actually places he hates to play and that he never wants to play again.   And most players you hear, depending whichever tournament, they all love the place.   You don't have to name the places, but have there tournaments that you really, really didn't like to play?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:   I mean, of course everybody comes to press, I love this.   You know, you're tired to listening, I love this.   I mean, for sure you don't love every week.   This is pretty clear.  
There are smaller ones which are not well organized, and it's very difficult to go play them.   It's not like I hate them.   There is always some good things and some bad things.   
But there is events like small you've got to take a train, a flight, then a ride, and then this, and then the food is not great.   These events really like I better not go play.   
But big events, I think they're all quite good.   I mean, there are some things you don't like about it, yeah, or you like more or less, but big events always pretty well organized.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT