DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS WOMEN
February 19, 2013
Svetlana Kuznetsova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. VINCI/S. Kuznetsova
  6‑3, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Sorry you lost.   How do you feel your comeback has been going from the operation?   You have had some good results, haven't you?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:   I never made operation.   You ask about my operation?   
   
 Q.   No.   I asked how the comeback has been.   
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:   It's good.   I'm happy to play again and was a long time off.   I was also happy to stay home for so long.   
I think I have been playing very well in Australia, better than in this trip, for example, and I think the tournament in Doha I played good first two matches.   Third match I was a little bit off.   
Yeah, I mean, it's all right.   You know, it could be better but it could be much worse.  
   
 Q.   What happened tonight?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:   Well, it was a little bit difficult match.   I think Roberta played very well.   It was very tricky point in the start where it could go either way.   I was 2‑1 up with a break, and then there I think I lost a little bit control of the match and then Roberta started to play very well.  
I couldn't really get my game up again, and it was very close every game.   I had many games Love‑30, 15‑40.   I just didn't use it to my advantage.   That's it.  
   
 Q.   How long you have been away from the tour?   Is your level of play where you would like it to be?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:   Oh, definitely not.   I mean, I would be in the final winning this tournament if my level would be where I wanted it to be.  
But, you know, sometimes you cannot ask from yourself.   You know, I'm happy I didn't have surgery.   I'm happy my knee is pretty okay and I'm just playing again.  
   
 Q.   The website said you did have surgery.   What actually did you have?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:   No, it's something ‑‑I don't know how to explain it in English.   It's something was small bone was broken there, and I didn't do surgery because it was not needed.   I just had to let it grow.   I was three months with the crutches, and then I had to do full recovery of the muscle.  
   
 Q.   You feel all right now?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:   Yeah, better.  
   
 Q.   How far do you think you are from your best?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:   It's very difficult to say.   You know, some matches like in Australia I was feeling great, but again, I mean, it was very important to see that I can win.   I win two good matches, with Caroline, I win another good matches like with Julia Goerges.   
I mean, few good matches.   I have played already in four tournaments this year.   I played 20 matches.   I mean, it's a lot.   It's quite good to have so much game experience.  
Next level, I just need to compete and win against good top players.   So far I have not had these matches.   But in Australia, I mean, I felt that I can be quite close.   Just a matter of time.  
   
 Q.   When you did so well in Australia, do you regard this as any kind of a setback, this trip?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:   Excuse me?   
   
 Q.   You did so well in Australia, very well.   You haven't done quite so well on this trip now.   Do you see that in any way as a setback?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:   You know, I mean, if I come back and I expect to win everything, it's quite difficult.  
You know, Australia was really good.   Here it didn't go so well, but again, I mean, I had still lots of matches.   I think I just need to be patient and keep working, and I think it will pay back one day.  
   
 Q.   Serena Williams said she thought it was weird that you haven't been given a wildcard.   She said that you were a great player, and she suggested it was something that she would have expected.   Do you feel anything similar to that, or how do you feel about what she said?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:   No, I mean, I read what she said, that she wouldn't play the tournament.     You know, the thing is it's not so many like schedule in ways.   It's not so many tournaments to play.   I wouldn't play it, either, you know, because I think I deserve to have a wildcard.  
But in my situation, I just have to go through this patch.   I mean, not many players that would say just, you know, I'm not gonna play.   But it's also good way to look at it.   But then I see another way, that I have to still be humble.   I still have to prove that I can do it and I can go through quallies.  
It's very weird, believe me, to play quallies.   You're like you cannot turn yourself on, like where I am?   Am I playing quallies for real?   
It so weird, but still, I made it through, and I hope I don't have to do it again.   I do feel that I deserve wildcard, but, you know, sometimes it's hard situations.   
But I appreciate support of Serena.   
   
 Q.   Vika pulled out today.   She said she played too many matches the last couple days.   You saying you played 20 matches this season, do you feel it's a little bit hard on your health, your body, your knee?  
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:   Who said?   
   
 Q.   Vika.   
SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA:   Vika.   Wow, Vika played only Australian Open and Doha, no?   
I mean, yeah, she been winning, so it's big difference.   But still, I mean, on my opinion it was good to me to have so many matches.   But it would be better if I have, for example, few days off between the tournaments and then play matches.   
I can have like three difficult matches and one day travel.   Three matches I had in Doha it was schedule was 8:00 p.m., 8:00 p.m., 5:00 p.m.   Then I come one day flying, practice, next day I play like at 10:00 or 12:00.   It makes no sense, the scheduling.  
But, you know, there's nothing they can do about it.   Yeah, I could say, Oh, I'm so good, I go home.   But I prefer to play, even if it's hard to go for it, and try to do my best.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT