FEDCUP FINALS: CZECH REPUBLIC v RUSSIA
November 6, 2011
Svetlana Kuznetsova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 P. KVITOVA/S. Kuznetsova
  4-6, 6-2, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. (Through translation.) When you were up 3-0 in the final, third set, there was an impression on the stand that she will be beginning the final storm, the final assault on you. Did you have that same impression?  
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: (Through translation.) Well, actually, I wasn't really thinking about it. I thought that in the third set she upped her game, and I was just unlucky at some points in the third set.   
 I think I was playing well up until the score 3-0, and it's not like I was playing badly after that. It's just she upped her game.  
  
  Q. (Through translation.) Do you agree that everything in this match depended on Kvitova whether she will play bad or good, everything depended on her, and you have nothing to reproach yourself?  
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: (Through translation.) I would never agree with such assessment that everything depend on the other player across the net, whoever I have to play with.   
 And I think a lot depended on me, maybe not so much on myself, but still, a lot depended on myself, and I would say I gave it 100%. And maybe I wasn't aggressive enough in some key points, but I gave it all.   
  
  Q. (Through translation.) It's your first match against Kvitova, so did you watch her matches in the past? Did you feel throughout the match that she's a rising star in the women's tennis?  
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: (Through translation.) Well, I wouldn't call her a rising star of the women's tennis because she has risen already. She won the Grand Slam, she won the year-end Championships in Istanbul, and it's hard to say what her tennis looks like if you watch TV, because it's different on court.  
 I feel I can beat her, and it's just throughout the year she played many more thrilling matches like this as compared to me, because I did play well this match, but I didn't have so many intriguing matches throughout the year, as she did.  
 She just was better in some moments of the match. That's it.   
  
  Q. (In Spanish.)  
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: (In Spanish.)  
  
  Q. (Through translation.) How different was the second set from the first set? And despite the outcome of the match, we had the impressions that you were enjoying this match no matter what.   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: (Through translation.) Well, actually, I felt really energized when I stepped on court in the first set and I won it. Then in the second set, I felt a bit out of gas. I felt some inner emptiness in my soul. But in the third set I started well again. I felt like I was really enjoying myself on court.   
 I would like to thank the crowd for their support. It was really a pleasure to play in front of a home crowd and feel such a colossal support, because without their support I don't think I would be up 3-0 in the third.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT