CHINA OPEN
October 1, 2011
Svetlana Kuznetsova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. KUZNETSOVA/A. Dulgheru
  6-2, 4-1 (ret.) 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. What did you think about the match? Your opponent pulled out of the match in the beginning, so what do you think about the match and your performance so far?  
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I think I was playing pretty okay. I did some unforced errors because sometimes I just was not walking to the ball. I know she was not at her 100%, but I feel sorry and I hope she recovers soon. I know she has been having problems in the past with her knee.   
  
  Q. Some of the favorites Maria and Serena, quit the game because of injuries. How do you think about your chance now to win a title here?   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I didn't know that they pull out; I didn't even see the draw. For me it doesn't really matter who plays in the tournament. I just would like to play against the best players and try to win.   
  
  Q. Getting towards the end of the season now, how would you sum up your year?  
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Not so good. (Smiling.) I don't think it's so good, but I'm looking -- I'm kind of looking for my game, you know. I feel like in the end of the year I started to play better and better. But unfortunately the year is almost done, so it's very disappointing to me.   
  
  Q. Can you understand why things have not gone so well this year?  
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: As I said before, I think I'm just looking. I just cannot find myself on the court, because I have to really play sometimes with -- not with what I think are my best shots with what the girls don't like. You know what I mean? Like I have shots that people don't like to play with, and sometimes I think I rather play other game, but the girls are comfortable with my other game.   
 So it's kind of messy. I don't know if you understand me, but I'm kind of looking the way to play and to be confident. I think I start to move better and everything in the end of the year, so at least I'm already closer to my better form.   
  
  Q. Safin is actually one of your favorite players. He played here yesterday. Did you watch the match against Pete Sampras? Have you had a chance to talk with him?  
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I saw him yesterday here before leaving to the hotel. I spoke with him for a little bit and then I left. I didn't watch the match.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT