U.S. OPEN
September 5, 2011
Svetlana Kuznetsova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







C. WOZNIACKI/S. Kuznetsova
  6-7, 7-5, 6-1

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. What happened after the first set?
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: What happened? You didn't see? 

 Q. From your point of view. 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I had chances. And for me, I missed the chances. This is my opinion about the match. 

 Q. Were you feeling like you needed to close that out in the second set?
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Of course. Of course. I mean, I have not played matches so intense in very, very long time. My U.S. series wasn't so good. Finally I came in good shape and was playing good game. 
 Yes, I did lots of unforced errors, but because I was trying to come very aggressive and to dictate, and I was doing this. And she plays a game. She was a wall, you know. To break a wall, you cannot hit hard. You have to mix it up. 
 I think I did the right things. I just couldn't close it up in the right moments. This is it. She never gives the match away. I just didn't do the right things in certain moments when I had to. 

 Q. Was there a point where your thoughts went back to the 2009 match?
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Well, no, I thought I cannot lose opportunities. It's not about 2000-whatever was the year about this match. It's just about opportunities. You cannot give up opportunities and miss your opportunities. 
 We're talking about playing one of the best players in the world. I played good game. I think levels of the game were very high today. I just lost my opportunities. 
 But it's very similar the game it was. I mean, I don't remember exactly what happened that year. But I feel like it was missed opportunities, and there were missed opportunities. So it's kind of the same. 

 Q. Is this also a question about her physical state?
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I don't know her physics. I can tell you about myself. I didn't have lots of matches. This is why I couldn't manage to play better in the third set. That's it. 

 Q. You've won Grand Slams and she hasn't yet. Do you think her style of play is a formula to win a Grand Slam?
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I don't know what to say. I can tell you what I won, how I won. But about her, I cannot tell you anything. 
 I think it's too much talk about it. It doesn't make sense to talk about it because she's No. 1, she's stable player. So far she didn't win. But if she wins, she will win. You will talk about different stuff. 
 But just matter of time to see if it's gonna happen or no, you know. She's still great player. What's wrong if she didn't win a Grand Slam? What's wrong if she gonna win? I think it's talking of nothing. 

 Q. How far away are you from the condition you were in when you won in 2009 in Paris?
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I don't know. I felt good on the court today. Not in the third set. But I felt like I was moving good. I don't think it's exactly you can compare. I'm not a machine to compare myself. I was on the fifth speed and today I was on the fourth. It's impossible to compare. Every year is different, every day is different. You cannot compare. 
 Definitely I need more matches to be in that level. But today I played at a good level. I just couldn't close the match. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT