DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS WOMEN
February 19, 2011
Svetlana Kuznetsova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. KUZNETSOVA/F. Pennetta
  6-4, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. What are your thoughts on that?
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Well, it was difficult match, difficult conditions. I think out of all the surfaces I played with Flavia, it's the one that suits her a lot because it's fast and can she use my power.
 She has quick hands, good timing. She was doing pretty well. I'm happy I managed to hold my serve few times in the second set, and I managed to break her in the end. I was trying to be aggressive. You have to realize when you try to be aggressive you're going to do few unforced errors. I don't have to be frustrated, but still it's frustrate me a lot sometimes.
 But I managed to win 6-4, 6-4. The game was very equal. I think the key points I was playing a little bit better than her. 

 Q. You were saying on the court that you didn't feel you played your best match. Was it the unforced errors?
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Yeah, yeah, because I tried to be aggressive because I see the space. I know my shots. I know exactly. But sometimes I'm going for too much because I want to do it too good. 
 Sometimes I get her out of the court, and then I want to close the point fast. But if the rush, I don't look the ball properly, and I hit with the frame and mishit it. Sometimes just some few points frustrate me, because to go higher level I have to win these points. That's the only thing I want to work on.

 Q. In the tournament itself, you've obviously beaten some top-ranked players. You came in as the 16th seed. How do you feel you've progressed in this tournament?
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I mean, on paper it's nothing. I say it one more time. It's like I was out of top 20. I think now I'm in top 20. I'm not sure what's going to be my ranking if I win or lose. Doesn't really matter. 
 What matters the most is my game. My game is back. Maybe not in the highest, highest level, but I'm competing against best players and beating top 10 players and I'm comfortable on the court. I know which moment for time to win, and I'm happy.
 Because I know and I realize what happened in the court, because last year I did not. So I'm in the finals. It's great for me. Tomorrow it's one more match to play. I just want to go out there and to see how I can compare myself to No. 1, what I have to work on, and to do my best. 
 Definitely I have me my possibilities and my chances.

 Q. You say you're back. What's the difference between maybe some points last year and now? What's the difference in your game?
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Yeah, I mean, especially like first six, seven months of the year... 

 Q. Last year?
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Yes. It was disaster. I was just playing ping-pong tennis or something else. Not my game. This is all I say. I could go either way. 
 And with any player, I was losing to -- like I don't know, maybe I had six, seven first-round loses. So for myself it's very unusual. 
 Then I won San Diego, because after Wimbledon I stop. I started to work with Larissa. I start to think, What's wrong? What I am doing wrong on the court? Where I have to bring my game back? So we work really hard.
 Then U.S. series I played better already. Then I got sick, and then I played last tournaments because I had to play them. Then I pull out just to rest and recover and get my game back. 
 I think I've done all I could, and now I have lots of matches to play. I'm really happy and lucky to play them. Just that's it. 

 Q. You mentioned the use of spin. Is this something you used to do more earlier in your career that you stopped doing? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Yeah, since I came to Russia I think I kind of missed it, because in Russia they quite don't get my game, some people.
 But, I mean, I appreciate all coaches in Russia who work with me. I been changing a lot. This is maybe also my fault. Maybe I have to discuss with the coach what we have to work on before the match, before working with the coach. 
 They just see the game differently, and I cannot play this game. I have my understanding. I cannot take new coach and he teach me again how to play tennis how he sees it. I'm all right constructive player and person. It's impossible to change me. You can add and correct things, but not change.

 Q. You had two tough matches before this one. No ill effects from those matches? You weren't tired today at all?
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: You know, I was not tired, but I was very slow somehow. I felt slow today. It's because sometimes takes me a few games to warm up. Tomorrow I cannot let myself do that. I realize that. (Smiling.)

 Q. You must be pleased with the way you battled back, because Flavia I think broke your serve four times. But immediately you sort of got back on top of her and eventually broke her near the end there to close it out. That shows battling qualities on your behalf. 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I tried to battle. Without battle, you can just go take your plane ticket and go back home. I love to battle. I love to play and to run and to play spin and different combination. 
 I think we had some good rallies today, even it's hard to play on this court. It's very fast. It's hard to have lots of long rallies.

 Q. You mentioned a fast start against Caroline. What else do you need to do to beat her tomorrow?
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: You're from her country, right? Where you are from? 

 Q. I'm based here. 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Oh, I'm sorry. I never seen you before and you straight ask about her, so...
 What I have to do? I have to be aggressive for sure. I have to stay calm and to play my game and just do less unforced errors. Serve well. That's it. 

 Q. You said you weren't totally happy with today. What were the keys today to winning the match against Flavia?
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I mean, I still was aggressive. I still played my game. 

 Q. In terms of your game.
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Yeah, like in terms, I think it's important that I tried many things today, but in important key moments I was coming back to the basics. That's it. 

 Q. You seemed very relaxed and confident throughout the match. 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I'm relaxed. You know, sometimes I think, so I win on lose, what happens? What changes? The world wouldn't change. I have less or more points or money in my pocket, it's not going to change me. 
 Definitely I want to be somewhere in the top of the game. But it's important, health, the family, the people to be healthy. Not have any terror attacks in countries. That's the important things in the life.

 Q. You seem so relaxed on the last couple of points, and you produced two terrific shots. 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: You recommend to be relaxed tomorrow for me as well?

 Q. You know better than me. 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I will think about it. 

 Q. The two forehands that you produced seemed to come because you were very confident and relaxed. 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Yeah, I mean, when you go ahead in the game, everybody basically of who plays good level, everybody goes ahead and they relax and they play better. 

 Q. One last thing. In terms of the top 10, if you win tomorrow you go into the top 10. Is that a motivator?
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Am I? 

 Q. 11. 13 or 11. 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: 11. That's not top 10. I mean, it's quite fast, but I been working really hard for this pre-season. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT