AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 19, 2011
Svetlana Kuznetsova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. KUZNETSOVA/A. Rus
  6-1, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Being seeded 23, is it something that you think of? Is it a weight to carry around, or do you just go out and play?
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I don't know. The first thing it makes me think of is Michael Jordan number (laughter). 
 Really, I don't know. I just have to play. Doesn't matter actually the ranking. The game, if you get it, you get it. If it's not, it's not. 
 I'm happy playing with it. I have the next match very tough. I'm looking forward to play it and just happy with my game so far.

 Q. You're so used to being at the top. The lower ranking, doesn't feel any different?
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: It felt better last year because I couldn't play really how I wanted. But I'm changing it now. I've been working hard for pre-season. I'm playing better. 
 It's getting better, so I can only be happier about that. 

 Q. You said in Sydney already that you had taken some time off. What did you do during your holidays? What did you do in order to make your head fresh again?
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: It was not quite like holiday. It's not like I took time off and I went like to Australia to see penguins. No, I was just at home and doing things what number of people do. And when people listen to me - I mean, not sport people - that I just to movies with friends, just doing basic stuff, take care of my apartment, buy something, whatever. Just normal human being things. 
 It just makes me happy to stay long at home. I was a little bit tired of the road. Just stayed there. And I started practice pretty early. But I wanted to keep in shape. 

 Q. It was your first holiday in 10 years. 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Since I was 16 I was playing tournaments whole year, and we had only time off is pretty one month and a half in the end of the year. 
 So, yeah, it was pretty long time since I have not really stopped playing tournaments. 

 Q. If you compare this to what Justine did, it's quite normal that she had to take some time off, too. 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Well, I don't know her reasons. For me it's hard to say. I know my reasons and I follow myself pretty much. I don't know why she took off and what happened to her. 
 I guess we just have two different life, and also personality is different. I don't know. 

 Q. You were injured last year? You had a middle ear infection I read. 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: No, I didn't have. I was a little injured of my shoulder in Miami. That's it. The rest was fine. 

 Q. There was no problem with your middle ear? I read that, as well. 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: No, not that I remember (smiling). Not that I remember, yeah. 

 Q. Your next match seems kind of a strange matchup for a third round. 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Do I play Justine? Is it right? 

 Q. Yes. 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Just a great match to play. It's third round, fourth round, whatever. A draw like this, maybe it's good we didn't play second round or first round, you know. 
 So it's going to be tough one, and we are both coming up and playing better. So definitely we're both not at our top level, but it's going to be just great match. I'm looking forward, and enjoy playing Justine.

 Q. You have I think two victories out of 18 against her. 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I didn't count. I know she win most of the time, but believe me, I don't count. I know that each match is different match. It's a new match to play. The same amount of points to win again. 

 Q. Is it special to play a match at 11:00 in the morning? Do you have to change your habits, your routine before the match?
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Well, it's hard, not because it's 11:00 in the morning. Because last time my first match I played first round I played fourth, so is completely different schedule you make of the day. And today I have to play first. It's like totally different. 
 This is just different. If you would play all the tournament more or less at the same time, this is what it makes difficult. Sometimes you play night matches, sometimes you play at 11:00. I guess you just have to be used to it. 
 But to be a little bit lucky with the schedule, it helps.

 Q. Do you get up earlier before a morning match?
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Yes, of course.

 Q. At what time?
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Today I wake up at 7:35. I think maybe I should even wake up a little bit earlier. But before I would wake up at 8:00, 8:15. But I tried to wake up earlier for the early matches. But for example when I had to play fourth, I wake up at 9:00 or so. 
 I mean, it's hard to change with the sleep, because for me I'm so organized with the sleep hours. I get so used to the time to go sleep and wake up. So you have to play with it around. 

 Q. You used to get along very well with Kim Clijsters. I don't know whether it's still the case. With Justine, what is the difference?
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I don't know. I guess, I mean, I'm okay with Justine, too. I don't really have somebody who I don't get along with, I guess. Maybe me and Kim were a little bit different generation, that's it. 
 But with Justine I'm fine as well. I don't have any problems with her. 

 Q. What do you think about Kim for the moment?
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I mean, she's playing great. I'm really happy for her. We really have fun in the locker room. We talk a lot, chat a lot, laugh a lot. I'm just really happy for her. What can I say? Just a great example. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT