U.S. OPEN
September 6, 2010
Svetlana Kuznetsova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







D. CIBULKOVA/S. Kuznetsova
  7-5, 7-6

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

 Q. What happened when you were leading and after she came back?
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I don't think it's what happened then, it's what happen in the whole match.
 I just I didn't feel good today. I was very flat. I don't know. It was very hard for me to play one night second night match, and then in one day to play at 11:00, you know. I mean, I still have to play and win today, doesn't matter what, because I feel that my level is so much better.
 But I was just fighting with myself and was not doing all the time the things I was supposed to do. And I was leading, I was doing right, and then I stop again. I mean, I was feeling flat out there. Still, it's not an excuse. I still have to win. Doesn't matter how I win.

 Q. At the end of the second set you were in better shape?
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I was better, but still not good enough.

 Q. Do you think Cibulkova is a very, very good player? What do you think of her?
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I think she plays good, but my level is higher, and I have to win these matches.

 Q. Her game was difficult for you?
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I played against myself, not against her.

 Q. Do you find that the game for women has become more physically demanding? You know, is there a lot more pressure, do you think, for women to bulk up at the gym, for example? And do you think that women who do build themselves up and bulk up, do they have a better chance of performing at a better level than those, you know, leaner sort of girls?
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Yeah, definitely, because we have - not counting Grand Slam, Miami, and Indian Wells - we have other tournaments which you have to play every day, so you have to be very fit.
 Tennis became already physical when Serena and Venus started to play, you know, because they kill everybody with their power, so everybody went back to the gym.
 So it's already been physical then.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT