U.S. OPEN
September 7, 2009
Svetlana Kuznetsova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. WOZNIACKI/S. Kuznetsova
  2-6, 7-6, 7-6 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Was there a specific turning point in the match for you?   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I think in the second set I should have played better. I mean, I was playing unbelievable. I just hit too many unforced errors and I could not control my emotions. And I wanted it so much, so it was pretty hard to control.   
 I was giving her some chances. What was the score in the second set? I don't know. First games I had chances to break her, and I was going for too much because everything was going so well. And I give her chance to come back, to believe that she can do that.   
 Overall I think I lost, like -- credit to her. She beat on the court, and she was putting balls back, but I lost to myself because I did so many unforced errors. These unforced errors, you cannot win against nobody. It's no chance.   
 Yeah, was fighting hard because it's really what I want. And I feel like I'm in great shape. Everything was not on my side, and I was doing too many unforced errors, not controlling the situation so much. But I think I played the game smart. I was trying to come to the net. I served better except the unforced errors.   
  
  Q. Were you getting frustrated by her ability to return?  
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: No, no. I mean, she has to do something. If she doesn't hit as hard as me, she has different advantages. This is her advantage, to bring the ball back.   
 And mine, I have to do to play one more ball. So basically I was not doing it. I was missing so easy balls, and I cannot allowed myself to do that.   
 I fought hard. I gave everything. But I didn't use my chances and I was doing too many unforced errors.   
  
  Q. Seems to be a drama every time you meet her. Also in Miami.   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: It was 6-1 in the third. It was not big drama. I felt like I was in control of the match almost all the points. Just the tiebreaks I play bad. I had advantages, I could break her more times. I was holding my serve. I was fine.   
 But tiebreakers, I just didn't play well. When the game was close, I was doing unforced errors. When I was leading, I was fine. But then something happens. 3-All, 4-4, I play worse.  
  
  Q. Are you surprised of her mental toughness?  
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: You know, I think I played within myself too much, so I wasn't thinking about her at all. And I don't think she did something too well, you know. I just did unforced errors all the time. And you don't have to do much. You just have to put the ball back. I was creating the point or I was losing it. This was it.   
  
  Q. You were able to hit some great winners.   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Yeah. I mean, I was going for it. That's why also I was -- some points I was too tense. I was just pushing the ball in. But it's not my game and I know this. I was going for it. I just didn't do it so well.   
  
  Q. Do you think her game plan is a little bit boring, being so defensive?  
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Again, I don't care about her. It's my game and I lost it. It's very disappointing for me.   
  
  Q. How do you see her chances against Oudin?  
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I don't know. I don't really care.   
  
  Q. You say you lost within yourself. Can you put your finger on why that was?  
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I think I was just attacking all over the place. I was just doing too many unforced errors. I was playing within myself too much. I should just play one more ball, just few points which I didn't do well, decides all the match like always.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT