PILOT PEN TENNIS PRESENTED BY SCHICK
August 27, 2009
Svetlana Kuznetsova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. MAURESMO/S. Kuznetsova
  7-6, 2-6, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about the break in the last set, those two final games.   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Well, it's hard to say something about like last break because you have to see picture of whole match because I didn't use my chances in the first set at all. I gave her chances to come back. She didn't have many possibilities to play. I let her to come back into the match. She started to play very well.   
 Over the last matches I seen her play, it's the best she played. She played really good. She was going for her shots, for line. I did a little bit too many unforced errors.   
 But I give a lot of credit for her. I think she played really good match. I think I was a bit too passive sometimes, rushing too much. This is it.   
 I had few possibilities to break her back in the third set, but I didn't do it.   
  
  Q. Is that one of the biggest differences in Amélie's game, is that now she seems to be more aggressive?  
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Well, I played her many times, and I think today is the most aggressive she's been. But also I gave her possibility to be aggressive because I started to be too passive and I didn't attack enough. When I started the first set, I don't know, I was 4-1 up. I was doing my game. Then I did few unforced errors.   
 It's small moments in the matches when you can let opponent to come back. And Amélie, she's professional. I mean, she has a lot of experience at her level and her stage of game. She knew to use her chances.   
  
  Q. What about the falls? Were you concerned when you fell over?  
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: It was the similar fall on the French when I played Serena. It's really hurt my ankle. I don't know what's going to be now. I rather keep playing with the pain than stop and put tape and do this and do that. It's too much. Maybe I hurt a little bit my back, but I didn't mention it when I play. I was fine.   
 I was fighting till end. I was pretty much enjoying, I can say that. Even I lost, I been doing my best. Maybe I didn't take my chances, do unforced errors. But during the game I was going for my shots. I think it was good preparation for me for New York.  
  
  Q. Are you happy where your game is after this week heading into New York?  
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I know the game is there. It's just few matches, few points, and I have to be more consistent, don't lose these chances. Like here I had every game. I was playing Zheng, 6-1, 4-2, and I didn't close it. Then I was playing another girl yesterday, Wickmayer. I had my chances. I didn't close it. Here again, when I close my chances, I be fine. I don't concerned about my game.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT