SONY ERICSSON OPEN
April 2, 2009
Svetlana Kuznetsova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 V. AZARENKA/S. Kuznetsova
  6-3, 2-6, 7-5 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. You lasted a lot longer than most players in the top 10. You have to be proud of that.   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Well, I didn't last out the tournament, so...   
 I have not been winning a lot. But, you know, coming here I been a bit lost on the court. I didn't know what I was doing, so I was trying some new stuff and then some old stuff and I was a little bit messed up.   
 So coming to the tournament if would tell me I would make to the final, I would doubt that. You know, I mean, I feel like I gave everything today. Definitely I could have done much better.   
 I would have played maybe first set more consistent. I was 3-1 up; 3-2, 15-40; 3-1 I was 40-15 on my serve, you know.   
 I gotta improve some things, but I definitely get back in the game. I feel the ball and I do things on the court. I was fighting all I could and maybe didn't serve that well in the third set.   
 But, you know, I was fighting, and for me it's the main thing.   
  
  Q. What parts of her game have improved since you played her last year at Roland Garros?  
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Well, I mean, for her I guess she plays much better on clay -- on hardcourt. I was much better shape, and Roland Garros is Grand Slam. You always play better on Grand Slams.   
 But she just get a little bit more consistent, I think, a little bit fitter.  
  
  Q. You looked a little winded at the end of the match. What was your fatigue level as it went on?  
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Oh, you know, much better than another day in third set. At end of second set I was barely walking, and here I was fighting and I was feeling I can go for longer, you know, I will last longer.   
 Definitely I could've done better, and this is what I gonna work. Because I lost a bit of fitness right now, but this is how I gonna be working for the clay court season.  
  
  Q. How did you like her chances against Venus or Serena?  
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: She played Serena and she was winning and she started to throw up. I guess Serena has more experience and she knows what it takes and she's No. 1 right now.   
 Venus also has more experience, you know. But she has no pressure. Let's see if she can handle it, because she gets a little bit tense in the important moments. But for me, she has good chances.  
  
  Q. Did you notice some nerves out there from Victoria at some points in the match?  
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: A little bit, yeah.   
  
  Q. Why do you say your fitness not where it should be right now?  
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I've been better. I've been better. Yeah, I just see some points which I gonna work on, so...  
 Sometimes it's so cool, you know, to stay on your own and lay back and not somebody telling you always what to do. You just suit yourself.   
 So I'm pretty cool with that. I been on my own and I did pretty good week, so, two weeks.   
 And I'm playing doubles and we having so much fun. And singles, you know, I didn't -- yeah, she was playing good, and I did pretty good match, so...   
  
  Q. How was this first tournament without a coach?   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I liked it. I liked it a lot, actually. You know, you're just playing the match and you stay on yourself. I think I'm strong enough to do it for myself, but not for all the time.   
  
  Q. I read recently that you have a tattoo; is that true?   
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Yeah.  
  
  Q. What is it and when did you get it and why?  
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I think tattoo describes a little bit your personality. Something very personal just because you put it on your body. It stays with you forever. I love tigers. Tiger prints. Sometimes you feel my motivation maybe to fight like a tiger or whatever, so I have a tiger on my stomach.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT