AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 28, 2009
Svetlana Kuznetsova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. WILLIAMS/S. Kuznetsova
  5-7, 7-5, 6-1

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Did the closing of the roof greatly affect your chances of winning?
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: It's gave her more chances, I guess (smiling). I mean, I don't know. 
 Yeah, definitely it was a big change. I was very comfortable playing outside. 

 Q. What were the conditions? You obviously prepared, did you, for the conditions today? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Well, yeah, I guess it's two different games. One you play inside; one you play outside. She has big serve. She was using it very good when the roof was closed. I guess it was in her favor very much. 
 But, still, I tried to do my best and I had my chances even like that. I was 5-3 up. 

 Q. Some people that were in the tunnel when you came off court suggested that you were a little bit angry to have been brought off court. Is that correct? 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Well, yeah, definitely angry. Why should I not be? Game going my way. I'm fine playing with the roof. I think the guys yesterday, it was the same weather. Everybody was playing with the roof. Why today they had to close it? I didn't get it. 
 Yeah, that was why I was angry.

 Q. Who are you angry at?
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I don't know (laughter). 

 Q. Did you ask the referee?
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: What I have to ask them? It's the tournament, what I have to say. I'm just a player. I play. That's it. It's not in my hands, you know. 

 Q. Is it difficult for you and the other players to understand how the rule on heat works here?
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: I didn't get the rule at all. Closing the roof middle of the match, I don't get it. 

 Q. Was it especially surprising for you that you started with an open roof and then during the match they closed it?
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Yeah. I mean, how you do that? I don't know. You just playing outdoor tennis, and one set you play indoor tennis. It's very good. 
 Serena was tough. She's playing great. I give her credit. But I don't get this rule. This is it.

 Q. In your heart of hearts, do you think if the roof stayed open you would have won the game?
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: You know, there is one saying that they say. It's not very good one. I mean, you can say what happen if, if, if? The match is over. She won. This is it. 
 But it could have been different way. 

 Q. Did you feel okay out there? You didn't feel any physical discomfort or danger?
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: What, in the heat? 

 Q. Yes. 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: No. I was completely fine. It was not easy to play because it's heat. But we are in Australia. It's normal, no, to play with the heat.

 Q. When you were looking at Serena down the other end, did you detect she was having trouble in the heat?
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Well, you can compare her serve with the roof closed and with the roof open. This is it. This makes all difference. 
 Yeah, I saw it's tough for her. It was the same, not very easy for me, you know. But I managed to move pretty well. I was fine. I was playing well. This is it. 

 Q. You were serving for the match still. 
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Yeah, that's what I said. It doesn't matter. I still had my chance. Even with roof closed, I was 5-3 up, 5-4, serving for the match. I just didn't do that. 
 Definitely the chances with the roof open would be more. But, still, I had my chances. You know, I'm there, I just got to work on some points on my game to improve it. That's it. 

 Q. What do you take away from the tournament, what positives?
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Well, it's not much, you know. I just have to improve a few moments which was missing today. I guess I've done too many unforced errors and I've been not serving so well in the important moments - in the third set especially. 
 But, yeah, I got to work just in some ways. But I'm there, you know. It's not too far away. But this step is the most difficult one, and I just got to work on it. 

 Q. Do you think somebody from your country will go on and win the title?
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Well, we have 35% of chances (smiling). Definitely it was great. I was hoping it would be four people in semifinal of my country. But I couldn't make it. You know, it's my fault. We could have make history. But, again, could have, would have. Maybe next time. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT