NBA ALL-STAR 2020
February 14, 2020
RJ Barrett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What did it mean to you to be chosen for this game?  
RJ BARRETT: Oh, you know what that meant. I grew up idolizing MJ. He's the best to do it. So especially for it to be my first time in Chicago, it's great.   
 Q.  What are your expectations for the game?  
RJ BARRETT: Just go out there and have fun and try to get a win. I watched this game a lot growing up because I really wanted to be in it. So just go out there and have fun.   
 Q.  How special is it that you've got [fellow Canadian] Shai Gilgeous-Alexander as your teammate?  
RJ BARRETT: It's great. I've got Shai and Nickeil [Alexander-Walker]. We've been boys for a while. And we've got Brandon Clarke too. It's great, especially to have friendly faces here.   
 Q.  RJ, is there a time that you could say you bet on yourself to get to this point today, whether it was at the AAU level or high school or college?  
RJ BARRETT: I always have. I feel like I expect greatness from myself. That's what I do. I work hard to be great every day, and I expect great things. But when something like this happens, I get to take a step back and really enjoy it.   
 Q.  What's something that's unusual being in the NBA versus college?  
RJ BARRETT: It's been really different. I've had a lot of people help me to make my transition smoother. It's been really different. It's been a lot of hard work. I'm enjoying it, though.   
 Q.  Which veterans have helped you the most this season?  
RJ BARRETT: I wouldn't say the most. When Marcus [Morris] was there, I talked to Marcus a lot. Because he's a guard, he's a wing, I talk to him a lot. I talk to Wayne [Ellington] and Taj [Gibson] really helps me in like a day-to-day routine, like staying focused all the time.   
 Q.  Today is Valentine's day. Do you have a Valentine?  
RJ BARRETT: No, I'm just going to be hooping today.   
 Q.  Did you do something for your girl?  
RJ BARRETT: No. I sent her a gift. I sent her a rose bear.   
 Q.  Who's going to be Rookie of the Year?  
RJ BARRETT: We don't know yet. I don't know.   
 Q.  If you ended the season today, who would it be?  
RJ BARRETT: I feel like a lot of people are deserving. I feel like a lot of people deserve it. A lot of people work hard for it, so I don't know. It's kind of hard not to vote for myself.   
 Q.  What are you looking forward to?  
RJ BARRETT: I really want to pick people's brains. There's a lot of stars here. I just want to see what they do and see how I can apply it to my life.   
 Q.  Have you ever played against Zion Williamson?  
RJ BARRETT: I played against him in summer league, but this will be the first time.   
 Q.  Thoughts on his play so far.  
RJ BARRETT: Nothing different. He's been doing that. I feel like with him he's a player we haven't really seen before, so like how do you even guard it? He's such a great talent. He's such a good kid, and he works hard at his craft. So I'm happy for him.   
 Q.  How do you stop him?  
RJ BARRETT: I'll give you the secret. He's going to do what he's going to do, and you can't stop it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT