ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
April 25, 2013
Randy Edsall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






		  
		  COACH EDSALL:   Thought we had a really good spring.   Thought our guys really worked hard.   We got a lot accomplished in the 15 days.   Saw quite a bit of progress from our football team.   Now we're already into our summer program.   As our young men finish up classes here and head to finals, we'll be back on campus at the end of May preparing for the season.

Q.   How would you say after digesting the spring and the quarterback play, how would you best characterize quarterback competition and depth chart right now? 
COACH EDSALL:   The depth chart we put out the other day is pretty straightforward.   C.J. is our starter as we go into the fall.   Then we have Perry and Caleb, and Ricardo who will be and they battle to be the starter as well.   There is competition that you have and you have a depth chart that you go into the fall with and you go from there.   We also have Shane Cockerill coming in as a true freshman.   We'll make sure guys get snaps and guys get the ability to show what they can do.

Q.   What is the latest on Perry and Caleb's health right now? 
COACH EDSALL:   They were doing things.   Perry is running and progressing.   He'll be ready to go come August, and Caleb has been cleared to go as the players do 7 on 7 on their own to do that, and C.J. has been cleared for everything.   So all of those guys will be healthy.   It will be great competition.   It will be good to have all of them out there.   When you bring Shane into the mix, I think we'll be more than adequate at that position.

Q.   Randy, regarding C.J., was he able to do anything this spring?   If he didn't do much, are you apprehensive at all about what might occur in the level he'll be at in the three weeks going into the season? 
COACH EDSALL:   The good thing is we were able to have C.J. involved with 7 on 7, individual drills during spring practice.   He just wasn't allowed to have any contact.   So you could see the progression and the progress that he was making throughout spring in those drills.   So I was very pleased.   You could see the confidence he was gaining each time he was out there.   Now we're doing conditioning and lifting with our eight hours per week. 
He's doing well.   There's not going to be any limitation or hesitation.   I know on his part, I'm not concerned about him.   He's worked extremely hard to put himself in the best possible position to be as healthy and as sound as he can be.   So, no, there is no hesitation on my part and I don't believe we'll see any hesitation on C.J.'s part either.

Q.   Is he further along than you anticipated? 
COACH EDSALL:   He's doing extremely well.   I know this.   He's cleared for everything.   So to me that's where we thought he would be. 
The biggest thing for me was I could see the confidence grow in him, and he was out there, driving off that leg and doing the things that you need to do as a quarterback.   And as he's doing things to continue to move forward, there is stuff that happens each and every day for him that just leads you‑‑ that knows he's where he needs to be, and he'll be as close to perfect as he can be come the time that we start practice on August 5th.

Q.   It sounds like the running backs had a pretty good spring.   What was it that those guys improved upon specifically, and how much of it was the offensive line's improvement as well? 
COACH EDSALL:   I think that one of the things is you have great competition there.   Wes wasn't out there due to injury, but Albert Reid is such a worker and a guy that wants to do well.   He puts pressure on anybody because of the way he works and the way he competes.   And Brandon, you could see him.   He got stronger over the winter and felt more comfortable and more at ease with the offense and knowing the offense a lot better. 
Also, I think our offensive line made strides, but we still got a lot of strides to make.   I just think that we're developing more depth and more competition at each position, and I think that's what we have at running back is we have tremendous competition there.   Joe Riddle had a good spring.   So you bring Wes in there, and there are four guys that can really get after it.   So when you have depth and you have that depth rates the competition, it makes everybody work a little bit harder and everybody get a little bit better.

Q.   Coming out of spring, what areas are you most pleased with, and what areas do you have most concern for going into the fall? 
COACH EDSALL:   I think in terms of our offensive line continuing to come together and continuing to develop and figuring out who is going to be the third tackle, who will be the third guard.   I know we've got a back‑up center in Evan Mulrooney.   But who are those guys going to be? 
Are we going to be an eight‑man rotation or eight guys on the offensive line we feel good about?   I hope to get to where we've got ten.   So I think that's the biggest thing on offense.   Again, I was pleased with the overall work ethic and commitment by all of our players in terms of what they wanted to get done. 
I thought they had great competition each day between our offense and our defense, and we go good against good all the time.   I just thought that made us better.   But, again, we've got to continue to work hard and get better.   Fundamentally and on our techniques over the summer, get stronger and bring into the mix the freshman class that we have and look forward to a very good season.





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT