ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 27, 2013
Randy Edsall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


  COACH EDSALL:   We're looking forward to the opportunity on Saturday to go down to Raleigh and work to try to get our seventh win.   Hopefully we can have a good rest of the week and be ready to go when we get down there.   
   
 Q.   When you look at them, they've lost seven straight games, but been fairly competitive against some of the better teams.   They gave Clemson, for instance, a struggle.   What do you see has been their problem?   How dangerous is NC State?   
COACH EDSALL:   Well, I think NC State is a very good football team.   I think they're athletic.   I think they're well‑coached.   I think they've got very good players.   I think when you just take a look, they've had some consistency issues.   The quarterback got hurt.   Mitchell is back.   He had a great game last week.   
Again, it's a team that has a lot of ability and a lot of talent.   
   
 Q.   You're coming off a really tough loss.   Is it tough to recover from that or bounce back from that?   
COACH EDSALL:   No, I don't think so.   I mean, the kids know this is the 12th game of the season.   They know that we're going down into a tough place to play.   We've got our goals and things that we want to accomplish.   That's what our focus has been on.   
(Indiscernible) was over with when the game was over.   You couldn't do anything about it.   You move forward.   That's what we've done and that's how we've prepared this week.   
   
 Q.   I wanted to ask you about All‑ACC.   We're pretty good on skill people, looking at numbers, making choices.   Linemen give us problems.   Can you make a case for a couple guys, especially offensive linemen.   Can you give us some guidance from your team.   
COACH EDSALL:   I think we're a young team up front when you take a look at Ryan Doyle, his first year starting for us.   De'Onte Arnett.   Sal Conaboy has had a consistent year for us.   Andrew Zeller is in there playing, his fourth or fifth start.   Michael Dunn, who is a redshirt freshman, who is playing this year.   
I think our guys have made improvements.   I think they're getting better.   Sal is probably the guy that has been the most consist of all of our guys.   
   
 Q.   How do you think your players have handled the emotional ups and downs of this season?   
COACH EDSALL:   I think our guys have been very resilient.   I've been very proud of how they've come and worked.   We've been through a lot.   They've been through a lot.   Again, I think we've grown up a lot.   
Again, it's still a process.   We're better and improved.   That's what we're trying to do again this week.   We're trying to get better and improve.   
Again, we've had to fight through a ton of adversity.   We got ourselves to a point where we're bowl‑eligible.   We're looking to get to the point of a seventh win.   
I'm proud of the guys, what they've been able to accomplish.   But we still have more to accomplish, and that's what we're looking forward to doing.   When you have that, you have to have a short memory.   You have to go each and every day.   When that day is over, you learn from it, move forward.   That's the mindset we have.   That's what we're focused in on this week.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT