ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 5, 2012
Randy Edsall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


  COACH EDSALL:   We're looking forward to going up to Temple to play them.   They come off a big win last weekend.   We're looking to go up and get better in all three phases of the game.

Q.   As far as defending the run this season, what signs of progress have you seen in that in the new scheme as well as against William & Mary that makes you a little more comfortable perhaps heading up to Temple after last year's rushing performance they put on y'all? 
COACH EDSALL:   I think it's too early to tell.   One game doesn't tell you everything.   We did a good job against William & Mary, but we'll be tested a lot more this weekend going up to Temple.   They rush for over 285 yards last week.   But I think any time you're going to stop the run if you're playing good, sound, solid fundamentals and techniques and everybody's doing their job and everybody's taking care and if you can get an extra guy in the box, that is one of the things that helps you with the run.

Q.   In what ways are you focusing to improve the offense for week two there? 
COACH EDSALL:   I just think we're looking for more consistency.   I thought that we played better in the second half.   You know, I think the biggest thing is that we have to remember we're a very, very young team on offense.   One of the things when you look at us, we have to make sure that we're doing enough, but we're not doing too much offensively.   Because when you take a look, Nick Klemm our starting left tackle, that was his first game starting on Saturday.   Sal Conaboy has three starts.   Justin Gilbert has 7.   De'Onte Arnett has two, and Bennett Fulper has 22.   Then when you look at Perry being a first year guy and Marcus Leak having three starts and Kerry Boykins three and Albert Reid and you know only had one.   We've just got to make sure that we just don't try to do too much.   We do enough to just be able to go out and execute better.

Q.   I'm taking last weekend didn't surprise you too much.   About what you expected in that experience or was it a little troubling? 
COACH EDSALL:   I think the turnovers is what was troubling.   We didn't expect to have four turnovers.   That was the thing that was troubling that we've got to eliminate this week.

Q.   You don't seem to be a revenge, payback kind of guy.   But how much do you mention last year's Temple game?   Fine line there between bringing it up and not doing too much or saying too much about it? 
COACH EDSALL:   I think the biggest thing is that was last year.   Of course I talked about last year's game, and we have to play a whole lot better this year than we did a year ago.   I know as coaches that we remember it, and the players that were here remember it. 
Again, we have to focus on who we are this year and go about our business, and that's what we plan to do.

Q.   I wanted to ask you about Joe Vellano.   Playing the scheme, the three‑four front, is he a nose guard?   His numbers were very good.   Can you evaluate how he played? 
COACH EDSALL:   Joe played very well.   Joe's just a guy that works very hard, self‑motivated, wants to do well, does it in practice.   But Joe's a guy that's not playing‑‑ he could play the nose.   He could play the one technique, the three, or the five in the scheme that we have. 
But Joe's very versatile.   We'll use him in different spots in our scheme.   But, again, he's one of those guys that really works hard at being good and understanding exactly everything that's going on.   It doesn't surprise me that Joe Vellano plays well because of the way he prepares and the way he practices.

Q.   How does he get a pick as a defensive lineman? 
COACH EDSALL:   That's a great question.   It's because he runs to the ball.   He hustles.   I think that's the biggest thing is that as you watch the film, and I showed our whole team the play.   This is why it was really like a quick screen. 
I said this is why you play until the whistle blows and you never think that you're out of the play.   Just because Joe was relentless and gives everything he has until the whistle blows, he was running and the ball got tipped and he caught it.   It's just a great example of playing every play like it's the last play you'll ever play and playing at full speed until the whistle blows, and that's how he got it.

Q.   Coach, is Nick going to work this week and practice?   Do you have any optimism there at all? 
COACH EDSALL:   We'll put the injury report out on Thursday when I get a chance to go through the rest of practice, we'll see if there was anything that transpires with him through the rest of the week.

Q.   You don't see a whole lot of games that end with both teams in the single digits.   How does that feel on the sidelines?   Does it feel like to any degree that magnifies a mistake that could be costly?   You don't see them in games like that. 
COACH EDSALL:   No, you don't.   If you're a defensive guy, you kind of like that.   If you get in games like that, you never know.   There could be one tipped ball, one violation, or one bad call against you that could do that.   Again, I think for our team being a young team, that situation for us in the first game to get that kind of experience, I think that will aid us as we continue through the season. 
But, yeah, it can get nerve‑racking because just like I said, one tipped ball, you know, whatever, one bad call could put you on the losing end of the deal. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT