ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 16, 2011
Randy Edsall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


   COACH EDSALL: We're looking forward to going down to Winston-Salem and playing Wake Forest. Been very impressed with watching them on film and the job that Jim has done. Coming down there a little bit banged up, but looking forward to playing.  
  
  Q. What does C.J. bring to the table as a player and a person as the new leader of your offense? Kind of the same for Cole Ferrand, the new guy if he's pressed into duty if Alex can't go?   
 COACH EDSALL: Well, C.J. is a young man who is very talented in terms of running the football. He's got very good speed. He's just a very calm, collected guy. Doesn't get rattled. He's a good thrower. Doesn't get as much credit for throwing the football that he should. But just has a great presence about him, somebody who is a tremendous competitor.   
 Cole Ferrand, we'll see where that goes. We're still looking for different combination this week during practice just in case Alex can't go. Alex didn't practice yesterday. We'll see what happens today. But we've got a couple of different scenarios going there.  
  
  Q. I just wanted you to talk a little about David Meggett and what he's brought to the table. He's been one of the more consistent running backs in the ACC, I think?  
 COACH EDSALL: Yeah, he's a very solid back. Somebody that is dependable. Is going to make positive yards. Knowledgeable of the game, understands the things that you want done. Has a lot of experience, lot of playing time. He's somebody that we expect to be able to handle a load anywhere from 12 to 20 times a game carrying the football. He's somebody that's been very dependable for us.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about his durability, too? So many backs get banged up or sit out a game or two and can't play. It seems like he's been there for you all year.   
 COACH EDSALL: Yeah, he's been there for us. We've rotated backs in there too. So that's one thing that I think has helped him. But he does a good job of making sure that he does the things that he needs to do to maintain his health. He's been fortunate that he hasn't had any kind of injuries.  
  
  Q. Coach, what is Danny O'Brien's injury? Will he be out for the last two games this season?   
 COACH EDSALL: Yeah, Danny is out for the last two games. He broke the bone in his upper arm. So he's going to be out. Could be in a cast up to 12 weeks. So, yeah, he's out for the next two weeks.  
  
  Q. Just switching to another player. Demetrius Hartsfield has made a ton of tackles for you in the last seven games in particular. What are the things he's been doing well to put him in that position?   
 COACH EDSALL: Demetrius is a great young man. He's understanding the scheme better now that we're playing. He's out there directing traffic at the Mike linebacker for us. But he's a guy that likes to play the game, and somebody who is out there just working to get better each week.  
  
  Q. What do you as a coach say -- I mean, your team has been struggling and you've only got a couple games left -- what do you as a coach say to kind of get the most out of your players these last few weeks?   
 COACH EDSALL: Same thing you've been saying. You're out there working hard each day to get better. Again, every day, what do you want to put on film? What do you want to be seen as you're on film? Do you want to be seen as a guy that's out there playing with a lot of physical toughness and enthusiasm and emotion? That's really what you have to do. Those are the things you talk about.   
 You just talk about getting better. That's the way that you approach any game. But that's what I've been telling the guys.  
  
  Q. Just to follow up, you said there were a couple of different scenarios at linebacker. Does that include moving the other guys back to that position?   
 COACH EDSALL: We've had a lot of combinations at linebacker, so there are a lot of options. So that's all we're doing. We're going to make sure that we have the best guys on the field to give us the best opportunity to win. Like I said, we've had a lot of different options in there this year due to all those injuries. So now we've got another injury. We have a lot of different options that we can go to.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT