ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 26, 2011
Randy Edsall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






		  
		   THE MODERATOR: We welcome Maryland head coach Randy Edsall.
 COACH EDSALL: Looking forward to having Boston College come down here to Capital One Field at Byrd Stadium and looking to get back on the field and you know working to try to get better and we know that they are a good football team and they have got offensive line, active defense and probably one of the best linebackers I've seen in college football for a long time and we are really looking forward to the opportunity and the challenge that we have ahead of us. 

 Q. Talk about the balance of trying to rebuild a program, of course you guys were on top of the list after Miami and some have compressed concern, what do you tell a prospect that there are not as many wins in year one that he would like to see to show a bright future?
 COACH EDSALL: Well, I think when you take a look at it, other than one game we had a chance in the fourth quarter against everybody that we were playing and against some outstanding teams and we have played the third toughest schedule in the country as of right now in FBS. 
 We are a young team and you know, there's going to be plenty of opportunities for people to be able to come in and have an opportunity to play. And again, I think there's things that you see that there is improvement and we just have not been as consistent as we need to be for 60 minutes. Again, we are installing a program here that you see growth and you see development really in all aspects.

 Q. Even though you have practice in preseason camp can you get all of what you want to do scheme-wise from an offensive and defensive standpoint in or is that something that takes longer than a calendar year?
 COACH EDSALL: I think any time when you come in and you're installing new systems it does take some time and really, to me, you can have spring practice, which is very good, and fall practice, but I don't know that you really get know your team and really get -- and the team gets to get a really good feeling for everything that you're doing in you're going out and playing some other people. 
 Again, you see the progress that's being made on offense and defense, and we do good things on special teams. It's just not from a consistency factor and that's one of the things that I think when you have some youth and inexperience, those things happen. 
 But the thing what we are doing, we just keep moving forward and we have got an offense where we have got to work to have playmakers so we can get playmakers in space and kids like that. Defensively we are going to be very active and work to get after people. I think young people like that, as well. 

 Q. I know you have not named the starting quarterback and you won't until game time, but have you started to develop a couple of feelings after practice this week which way you might be leaning?
 COACH EDSALL: Both young men were out yesterday, had good practices and we'll continue to evaluate it today and Thursday and as we get to Saturday, we'll have a starter. 

 Q. Two different questions, what was it like leading UCONN to a BCS Bowl and what has that meant to your career?
 COACH EDSALL: Well, I'd rather talk about Maryland. I'm at Maryland, and I'd rather talk about Maryland and anything that has to do with BC if you wouldn't mind. 

 Q. Since both guys are healthy, is it a question of you're reopening it because you didn't like how C.J. played last week or you're reopening it because you like how Danny played last week? What's the reason it's kind of back open into a competition again?
 COACH EDSALL: Well, I thought we have two really good quarterbacks, two guys that can start and two guys that can win for you. We had a situation where we thought that one young man provided a spark, came in and did that and then we had a young man that took a shot but could go back in the game, and Danny went in. Wanted to make it a competition this week to see where we are at and see who performs best during the week and whoever does, then you know, that will be the guy that will start for us. 
 I have complete in both of them that they can do the job, and we'll see where that leaves us on Saturday. 

 Q. Is that going to be the philosophy every week the rest of the year I guess or are you just waiting for somebody to grab the horns and be the permanent guy?
 COACH EDSALL: We are just going to take it one week at a time. That's all we are concerned about is one week at a time and it happens to be that this week it's Boston College and we'll make our decisions based on what we feel is the best to give us the opportunity to beat Boston College. 

 Q. Curious to follow up on the quarterback thing, to have two quarterbacks with two distinctly different strengths, and maybe I'm reading it wrong but I seemed to think that Danny is a pocket passer, pro-style guy, and Brown is the running quarterback. Is that something you would like, that off-balances the opponents that they have to prepare for two different styles and is it difficult to integrate with your own offense?
 COACH EDSALL: No, I don't think it's difficult to integrate. I think both young men can do the things that we want to do. 
 Again, one might be a little bit better running the ball. One might be a little bit better passing the ball but they are both capable running and passing and I think that's the thing that -- last week, Danny rushed for a touchdown and I thought that that was a good thing. 
 Again, we are trying to do the things that overall, you know, give us the best opportunity to win with who we have with all parts of our offense, not just one particular person on offense, because I think you have to do things that suit all 11 guys on offense and maybe just not one. 
 Again, I think it does give people some problems and when you do have two; and again, if we can have just one guy that he's the guy out there and he's performing -- but when you have two guys that you feel good about, if one guy isn't performing then, you know, it's like any other position, other guys should get an opportunity to go out there and perform and go try and win for your team.

 Q. Does the opponent, as you go on the road, is it possible the opponent would dictate the choice of quarterbacks, one team that you might perceive as more vulnerable?
 COACH EDSALL: Those are all -- that's a very good question, because again, it is. That's one of the things that goes into the equation. But again, if you have that guy who is performing, then you'll probably go with that one guy. But if things are equal and then it might be a situation where that -- what you just mentioned comes into a play little bit more. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT