ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 28, 2011
Randy Edsall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






		  
		   THE MODERATOR: We now have Maryland head coach Randy Edsall. 
 COACH EDSALL: We have got Towson here at home and we are looking forward to getting out and playing, and improving in all aspects of the game, and have a great deal of respect for Rob and what he's done there at Towson in such a short period. 

 Q. What are some of the pros and cons of so many red shirts this early in the season and what did the new kids you played on Saturday show to you dictate that? 
 COACH EDSALL: As a coach, the job of what I'm supposed to do is just to make sure that I have our best people on the field that gives us the best opportunity to win. You know, as I evaluate and I evaluate the young men. I just felt that these young men help us and give us an opportunity to be able to win. I think in this day and age of football, that's what my job is. That's way do. 

 Q. Could they play special teams or could they play at their natural positions, as well? 
 COACH EDSALL: They are basically in the two-deep so they are one play away from playing in a ballgame at their positions, but feel that they can help us on special teams and this way, they get experience on the field, if and when that call would come for them to get in and play on defense. 

 Q. Forgive me for being a guy that didn't get to see any of your games Saturday, after a couple of pretty strong efforts, is it -- again, as an outsider who didn't see it, is it a case of Temple that good or you guys had a letdown after two good weeks? 
 COACH EDSALL: No, Temple is a good football team. Give them the credit. They are a good football team and we didn't play the way that I think that we are capable of playing and I think that's why the score was what it was at the end. 

 Q. Easy or hard to bounce back from a game like that? 
 COACH EDSALL: I expect us to bounce back and how you go about doing that is just, you know, you come back and you look at the film and you make the corrections and you put it behind you, and you go out and you work harder next week and that's what we try to do each and every week. 
 You try to go and make yourself better for the next game and that's what we have been all about this week. 

 Q. Talk about the move of Cody Blue over to defense and what he has shown you, and can he possibly get on the field?
 COACH EDSALL: Again, as I stated before, you know, the job of -- what my job is is to evaluate all of our young men on our roster and work to get the best people on the field and after evaluating Cody, we felt that he's a young man that could help us at the defensive line since we have suffered through some injuries at those positions, and again, we just felt that he was a young man that is going to give us an opportunity to help us win at that position. 

 Q. You've had a lot of changes this week. Any other changes?
 COACH EDSALL: No, the changes that we have are indicated on the depth chart, and they are all there on the depth chart. 

 Q. It looked like that if there was a bright spot in the Temple game, Demetrius Hartsfield might have been one; he had 17 tackles. Tell me a little bit about the way he played and how he's progressing. 
 COACH EDSALL: Well, Demetrius did make a lot of tackles, made a lot of plays in that game for us, and I think he's a young man that's getting better with each game that he's playing. I think he's getting more comfortable in the scheme that we are playing, I just a progression of him getting better each and every week. 

 Q. What are his best assets in the position he plays? 
 COACH EDSALL: Well, he's smart, he understands concepts, he is a big guy that can run. And again, he's a guy that has a knack for finding the football. 

 Q. What's the marching orders, the things you're focusing on the most this week? 
 COACH EDSALL: We are just trying to get better on every phase, offense, defense and special teams. That's kind of our M.O. each and every week. We just want to improve in every phase, and you know, because, again, I think every week, you can always get a little bit better in every different scenario, what you do offensively, defensively and special teams, so that's what the focus is. 

 Q. After a few more practices now under your belt this week, how have you seen the kids react and comeback? 
 COACH EDSALL: I thought the practices have been very good on Sunday and yesterday, and you know, very focused. I expect us to go out and play a good game. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT