ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 16, 2013
Randy Edsall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






		  
		  COACH EDSALL:   Well, we have to get a lot better this week.   We have to make sure that we don't have turnovers like we did last week and limit our offense in terms of the number of possessions we have; and know that we are going to be playing a well‑coached, very disciplined Wake Forest football team that's riding high right now coming off their victory over NC State. 
So we look forward to the opportunity to go down there and work to try to get another win. 

Q.   Talk about your place kicker, he's from down under, talk about his development over the couple years. 
COACH EDSALL:   Well, Brad Craddock came here from Australia and was more of a punter.   He did both but he was probably more of a punter than a place kicker. 
We had a need for a place kicker and he's worked very, very hard.   All the credit goes to Brad for how hard he's worked and what he's developed into so far.   Just been very pleased with his progress from a year ago to this year.   He's really striking the ball very well. 
He's kicking with a lot of confidence, and you know, hopefully that will continue.   But you know, he's a great kid to be around and just very, very happy for how he's performed so far. 

Q.   And how is the update on C.J., is he ready to go this week heading into Wake Forest? 
COACH EDSALL:   C.J. was cleared.   He was cleared on Sunday.   He practiced on Sunday.   He practiced yesterday and did everything.   Had two good practices.   He's ready to go and he'll take all the snaps.   

Q.   Talk about Wake Forest, what did you see on film on their offensive line and offense?
COACH EDSALL:   I think offensively, you know, Tanner Price is an outstanding quarterback, had not played real well against NC State and I'm very impressed with Michael Campanaro in terms of what he can do there offensively.   He's just an outstanding receiver and a punt returner, and their offensive line is really coming together and really gelling as the season goes on. 
So, again, it's going to be a tremendous opportunity for our defense to go against them and to do everything that we can to limit what they do. 

Q.   In terms of the Coaches Poll, how much in favor are you thatthat poll ‑‑ inaudible ‑‑ with the BCS standings? 
COACH EDSALL:   I'm not‑‑ I'm not really in favor of polls.   I think it just should be what people do based on what they do on the field and strength of schedule and who they are playing. 
So you know, to me, I think what happens is, is when you get into polls with number of people voting, you get bias; whether it's conference bias, people might rank somebody in their conference a little bit higher.   I don't think you get really the true data that you need. 
So I think you need to have independent people, which is what they are doing, and let them put the decisions in their hands, because they are all quality people and they are people that have the best interests of the sport and the criteria that they are looking at. 
So, you know, that‑‑ I like what they are going to have is just to have that committee and let them do it and take the raw data of watching film and doing those sort of things and coming up with the teams that deserve to be there. 

Q.   How much time do you think coaches put into the poll? 
COACH EDSALL:   Excuse me? 

Q.   How much time and thought do you think the coaches really put into the poll, into doing the poll? 
COACH EDSALL:   Well, I used to vote on it, and I know that I didn't have enough time to do it.   And then I decided that I didn't have the time, because I can't see everybody else play.   I can't do a fair evaluation.   I have got too much to do with my own team. 
I just don't think ‑‑ we as coaches can't evaluate all 119 teams to see who deserves and who doesn't deserve and all that.   You've got enough work to do with your own team to be able to determine who is better 1 through 25, in my opinion. 

Q.   Considering all you guys have been through the last two years, how much would it mean to you to become Bowl‑eligible here in mid‑October on the road? 
COACH EDSALL:   We are not‑‑ we are just focussed on trying to get win No.6.   And again, we are just going to evaluate the whole season in totality. 
And again, alls we are trying to do is win each game that we play and after you win them, you put them in the bank and at the end of the season, let's see where we're at and hopefully if we do what we are capable of doing, then we'll be able to achieve the goals that we have set for ourselves. 

Q.   Campanaro has caught 16 passes in one game, 12 in another.   Can you talk just a little about the various ways, schemes and things they use, to get him open, and how do you scheme defensively to try to contain that? 
COACH EDSALL:   Jim and his coaches are outstanding coaches and they do a good job, and they have designed ways to get him the ball in a lot of different areas are short, intermediate, deep, lined up into the boundary, lined to the field, motioning, all those things. 
So, again, they make it difficult on you, but there's things that you just have to know and then there's sometimes they put him in places where he's a decoy, as well. 
What you've got to do is just put together a game plan that you think is going to give you the best opportunity to neutralize him and Tanner Price. 

Q.   And sometimes when you pay so much attention to him, they have got a couple of other receivers who can slip past you deep, too, don't they? 
COACH EDSALL:   They do.   Orville Reynolds and John Armstrong, different guys, yeah.   They have got ways to get guys there.   So again, it presents a tremendous challenge for us. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT