ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 9, 2013
Randy Edsall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






		  
		  RANDY EDSALL:   Well, we get to come home this weekend and play a very good Virginia team, one that has tremendous athletes on both sides of the ball, so we're looking forward to the opportunity. 

Q.   I know you've been getting a lot of questions this week about CJ Brown, and despite our relationship I don't think you're going to tell me what's going on with him, but regarding the policy, do you like the policy of having all the information come out Thursday night?   Do you have somebody monitoring the information from the opponent that night to tell you?   And if you could, how would you‑‑ would you do anything different as far as the policy? 
RANDY EDSALL:   I really love the policy that we have in place here with the ACC from an injury standpoint.   I think there's a lot of things from a private side of the young men with that, that we come out on Mondays and if somebody is going to have surgery and be out for the season, you put that out there, because guys can get hurt in the game and you're really not going to really have anything definitive until you get done that particular week of practice, and being that Thursday with a Saturday game is the last day of practice, and then we put out the release then that they're either doubtful, questionable, probable or out for the game.   I think it's a great way, and I think it's the best way with our student athletes so we as coaches don't have to answer questions every time we have a media availability, which is three to four times during the week.   I think it's an outstanding policy, one that I endorse wholeheartedly, and I think that's one of the things that's helped with this. 
Everybody has the information that they need on Thursday evening, and then you just move from there. 

Q.   Historically do you feel what you get from the other teams is credible?   Do you think that's at least pretty‑‑
RANDY EDSALL:   I mean, I do.   I know we've talked about it when we've had coaches' meetings, and we've tried to say, hey, this is the policy we have in effect so we would want everybody to deal with it honestly, and again, just from my standpoint, all I do is my trainers come up after practice and they have the list for me, and they're the ones who put down whether they're probable, questionable, doubtful or out.   I have nothing to do with it. 
I think we just take‑‑ I mean, I just think that you just have to be honest with those things, and we try to, and I do, I believe everybody is fulfilling their obligation the right way. 

Q.   I wonder, as a coach, do you enjoy these rivalry games, and would you ever see Maryland possibly scheduling Virginia as a non‑conference opponent if circumstances allowed in the future? 
RANDY EDSALL:   You know, I think rivalry games are great.   I think it adds to the experience of what college football is all about.   I do, I think those are really good. 
As far as our future scheduling goes, again, there's going to be limited opportunities for us to be able to play a lot of different people based on the number of games that we'll be playing in our conference.   So again, those are discussions that I'm sure will take place between myself and Kevin as we move further down the road. 

Q.   The move you guys made on the depth chart, wide receiver, moving Malcolm into the starting spot, I was curious what that was a result of, whether that was more Malcolm's doing or whether that had anything to do with the holding penalty on Nigel Adams Saturday. 
RANDY EDSALL:   What it is, it's just an evaluation we do as coaches after each game, and we've had guys play, and Malcolm has played well when he's been in there and Nigel has played well, but we just went into this game, we sat down, and that's the way we are.   I wouldn't read anything into it. 

Q.   Talk about Mike London, the coach of Virginia.   What type of coaching does he bring to the field all the time?
RANDY EDSALL:   I think Mike is an outstanding coach.   He's a good guy.   He does things the right way.   I have nothing but just great respect for Mike and what he's done throughout his coaching career and what he's doing there at Virginia.   And again, when you play his teams you've got to be ready, they're going to be well prepared and they're going to be physical. 

Q.   What are you guys going to do to regroup after last week's loss down in Tallahassee to get yourselves ready?
RANDY EDSALL:   Same thing we always do; came in and been on the same schedule that we've had the first four weeks.   This week is another week.   That one was over last Sunday afternoon, and you go back to work and you just keep working as hard as you can.   As I said, you get knocked off the horse, you get right back up and you ride again, and that's what we're doing. 

Q.   This Virginia team has a different look than the one you played last year with Watford at quarterback.   I think he's a guy you haven't seen before.   Can you talk about what he brings, and does he present any different problems than what you got last year? 
RANDY EDSALL:   Well, he's a dual‑threat quarterback.   They're running things out of the pistol and they're running some read‑zone things, and they have some designed runs for their quarterback.   So again, any time that you're dealing with a dual‑threat quarterback, there's always added pressure on your defense to make sure everybody is taking care of their responsibilities.   You know, he has a good arm, and like I said, he's very athletic and can make a lot of plays. 

Q.   One guy you have seen before is Kevin Parks coming out of the backfield at tailback.   He seems to be a pretty good dual‑threat guy, both as a runner and a receiver.   Can you talk about him and the problems he presents?
RANDY EDSALL:   He's an outstanding football player.   I mean, he runs very, very hard.   He breaks tackles.   He can catch the ball out of the backfield.   He does well in pass protection when they ask him to pass protect, and then also chipping guys when he comes out of the backfield.
To me he's a complete football player and one that plays hard all the time, and like I said, I have a lot of respect for him. 

Q.   Randy, if there was one guy who seemed to have a good game Saturday, it was Sean Davis with 12 tackles.   Can you just talk about him and the season that he's had? 
RANDY EDSALL:   Well, Sean is a young player who's just getting better with each game.   He still has a lot to learn, and he still has a lot to accomplish, but he's playing hard, and what we've got to do is just get him to continue to play with better technique and fundamentals.   But again, he's got the speed, the athleticism and all the things that you're looking for to play the safety position.   And now, like I said, the more game experience he has, the better he'll get. 

Q.   Also, everybody, of course, has to say put that game behind us and moving forward from here, but how hard is it to do that, either way, if you were coming off a win like that or coming off a loss like that?   How hard is it to leave that game behind? 
RANDY EDSALL:   I think it's easy.   When you win, you leave that game behind.   You know, the thing is I think it's the approach that you try to take all the time.   When that game is over, you come in and you watch the film and you move on.   You can't get it back, regardless of what happens.   It's one of 12 games that we're guaranteed to play, and when it's over, you move forward.   It's no different than a win.   When you win, you move forward, and when you lose, you move forward. 
To me I think it's pretty much a simple approach.   It's no different when you lose than when you win. 

Q.   I was going to ask that same question, but let me ask you about Caleb Rowe and where you think he is?
RANDY EDSALL:   He's here in College Park going to class.   (Laughter.)
No, Caleb came in and did what he was asked of against Florida State.   Caleb has done well as he's come in to replace CJ in the games that he's played so far this year. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT