U.S. GIRLS' JUNIOR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 27, 2019
Jillian Bourdage
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Seven times you came back from losing the hole to win.  It looked like it was going to be an eighth.  A little misread on the putt?  
JILLIAN BOURDAGE: This one I think I just under-read it, but I felt really good when I walked over the ball and my aim looked great from where I was standing, and I just gave it my best shot, but that's golf sometimes.  They don't all drop.   
 Q.  What did you hit in there?  
JILLIAN BOURDAGE: I had an 8-iron.   
 Q.  From?  
JILLIAN BOURDAGE: From 130 yards.   
 Q.  Talk a little bit about your comebacks today because you were down three at lunch, things aren't looking so good, and then you come out and get it right back to a tie game five, six holes into it.  What did you tell yourself at lunch and what was your mindset?  
JILLIAN BOURDAGE: So in the beginning my ball-striking was a little rough and I was really having a tough time trying to get the ball where I wanted to and put myself in good position for birdie or even par sometimes.  But going into the second round, I just told myself, give it your all, no fear.  I can't be afraid to hit my approach shot into the green no matter where it goes.  I just have to give it my all, so that's what I told myself.   
 Q.  The 4 hybrid, are you going to bronze that thing?  You hit some unbelievable shots with it today.  
JILLIAN BOURDAGE: Thank you so much, yeah.  My ball-striking definitely turned around on the back nine.  Just some of my putts weren't dropping for birdie, and I had a tough time reading some of the greens today versus yesterday.   
 Q.  First Girls' Junior, you get to the championship match.  You've been to the championship match at the women's four-ball this year.  What did you learn from this week, and what will you take forward going into the Women's Am in a couple weeks?  
JILLIAN BOURDAGE: I just learned that I've just got to keep playing my own game and keep firing away, and sometimes you're going to have an amazing day, sometimes you're going to have an iffy day.  I said iffy, by the way.  But you've just got to keep plugging away and you've got to learn from every experience, so I definitely learned a lot out here this week, and I played against so many amazing people, and I'm just so honored to have made it this far and grateful to have been able to come to the U.S. Girls' Junior this year.   
 Q.  You talked about it earlier, about this whole experience of coming to Wisconsin where you have family and relatives here.  What has this meant to you?  
JILLIAN BOURDAGE: This means so much to me, and my family has been so supportive, they've been cheering me on all day and encouraging me, even though I had a rough start.  But it's just nice that they're always by my side, and it's amazing to be here and get to spend time with them, too.   
 Q.  The Women's Am, there will be some amazing players in that field.  What's that going to be like for you?  
JILLIAN BOURDAGE: That's going to be a lot of fun.  Hopefully I get paired with some of them, and I just want to have a blast out there.   
 Q.  Have you played in the Women's Am before?  
JILLIAN BOURDAGE: No, this is my first time trying out for the Girls' Junior and the Women's Am.   
 Q.  Do you think this week will definitely give you confidence playing against a stronger field in a couple weeks?  
JILLIAN BOURDAGE: Yes, for sure.  I'm just going to keep on thinking about one shot at a time and just keep practicing and preparing for the Women's Am.   
 Q.  You came into this tournament ranked almost 900 in the rankings or whatever.  What were your expectations coming in?  
JILLIAN BOURDAGE: I tried not to put my expectations on myself going into this tournament.  Usually I perform pretty well when I don't think too much about that and I just let my golf do the talking.  I've definitely made a lot of breakthroughs in my game this week, and hopefully I can carry them forward into more future tournaments, so I'm very excited about that.   
 Q.  Well, you beat Yuka Saso, who's a top-22 player, and you almost took out the 69 player.  Talk about these two matches the last couple days.  
JILLIAN BOURDAGE: Oh, my gosh, they've been so crazy.  Yuka was an incredible golfer, and she kept me on my toes the entire match, and same with Angelina.  She was phenomenal out here today and she came back strong right when she needed to on 17.  That was an awesome birdie she made.  Very clutch.  It's just been a great learning experience for sure.  And now I know that I can definitely play against a lot of the big dogs out here because that's going to be a good confidence booster for sure, that I can hold my own.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT