U.S. GIRLS' JUNIOR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 26, 2019
Jillian Bourdage
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 14 and 15 bogeys there, a three-putt and then another bogey.  What were you telling yourself as you walked off the green on 15?
JILLIAN BOURDAGE: On 15, I looked at my caddie, and I'm like, okay, I've just got to breathe and I've just got to fire away on this next hole.  I've got to give it all I've got pretty much.
Q. 16, then you made the huge birdie -- 17 actually.  How long was that putt about?
JILLIAN BOURDAGE: Let me think.  I walked it off.  It was about 16 -- I think it was 16 feet.  Either that or 20 feet.  It was somewhere around there.
Q. How good did that feel when that went in?
JILLIAN BOURDAGE: That one felt really good.  I had a putt similar to that this morning from I think around 12 feet for birdie, and that's how I won my first match, too, so I knew the read on it, and I just had to trust myself and not blow it by by six feet.  I just had to get the pacing right on that one, and that felt extraordinary.  I can't even describe the words how amazing it felt to make that putt.
Q. How amazing does it feel to be in this position heading into the championship match?
JILLIAN BOURDAGE: It's a little scary, but I'm very excited, and I feel super -- I don't know, excited about tomorrow.  I just want to go out and play some golf and enjoy the game I love.
Q. Talk a little bit about your confidence right now and what this week, regardless of tomorrow, will do for your game and your mentality.
JILLIAN BOURDAGE: So this week my confidence has grown with each round, and I'm just super happy to see that all my hard work has been paying off, especially on the short game and the putting, because I've been struggling with that a little bit for the past couple months, and I'm making some good putts out there under pressure, and that's definitely a confidence booster.  In the long run it'll help me in any other tournament.
Q. I know you've got some family ties here, but did you know much about Sentry World before you came here?  Did your parents know anything about it?
JILLIAN BOURDAGE: So I've heard the name Sentry World before, but I didn't realize it was located in Stevens Point, and both my cousins graduated from here.
Q. Oh, UW Stevens Point?
JILLIAN BOURDAGE: Yep.  So I was telling my cousins, like hey, I think I just got into the U.S. Girls' Junior, and it's located at Sentry World in Stevens Point, do you know that course?  He's like, oh, that's an awesome golf course; they have a great flower hole.  And I was like, okay, sounds good.
Q. What do you think of the facility now that you've been here for a week?
JILLIAN BOURDAGE: Oh, this place is so amazing, and the chipping greens are phenomenal.  The range is outstanding.  The putting greens are so smooth, and just the whole staff here, everyone is so nice and supportive.  It's just a wonderful place to be.
Q. I know they would like to get another USGA championship here.  Could you see yourself coming back here for a U.S. Women's Open or something like that?
JILLIAN BOURDAGE: 100 percent.  This is such an amazing course.  Like I said, it's such a great place to be, and I'm so grateful to be here.  It's an honor.
Q. You have not trailed in a match all week.  Did you realize that?  Did you think about that or even know it?
JILLIAN BOURDAGE: I haven't -- I didn't realize I haven't --
Q. That's what they said on TV.
JILLIAN BOURDAGE: I didn't realize I haven't been down at all.  Yeah, I guess I've been starting off really strong, and I've just been trying to keep my foot on the gas pedal the entire time.  I've really been -- I didn't even realize.  Good to know.
Q. This will be your second final of the year --
JILLIAN BOURDAGE: My second --
Q. Second USGA final of the year.
JILLIAN BOURDAGE: That's correct, with the Four-Ball.
Q. I know it was a team event, so it's a little different dynamic, but how will that experience help you for tomorrow?
JILLIAN BOURDAGE: Oh, that experience is going to help for tomorrow because at the Four-Ball that was a very scary tee shot on hole No. 1 for sure because Megan Furtney and Erica Shepard are some great players, but tomorrow I'm playing against Angelina, and she's an outstanding player, also, and I just -- this week I learned how to really keep my nerves under control and just keep breathing and firing away.
Q. It's interesting, too, that both of you guys are Four-Ball runners up.  She was last year.
JILLIAN BOURDAGE: Oh, awesome.
Q. It started coming down a little bit.  Did the rain affect your concentration at all?
JILLIAN BOURDAGE: Sometimes I would like to think yes, but most of the time no, I really just tried to block it out, and once I'm over the ball, I really zoned into what I'm doing, and I don't really hear any people moving in the background, I don't see anyone moving, it's just me and the ball.  I don't think the rain really affected me that much.  I'm from Florida, too, so it rains a lot.
Q. You're also in the Women's Am now; you did try to qualify for the Women's Am this year?
JILLIAN BOURDAGE: I did.  I missed it by two strokes.
Q. Will we see you in Mississippi?
JILLIAN BOURDAGE: No, I didn't even get alternate.
Q. No, you're in.
JILLIAN BOURDAGE: Oh, I'm in?
Q. Finalists of the Girls' Junior get an automatic spot, it doesn't matter.
JILLIAN BOURDAGE: Oh, okay, good to know.
Q. You might have to look at your schedule.
JILLIAN BOURDAGE: I think so.
Q. What about obviously the thought of the big prize tomorrow, not only winning this but there's a big exemption that goes along with it.
JILLIAN BOURDAGE: I forgot about the exemption, but obviously just the whole experience I've had this week, it's just been amazing, and the thought of winning has crossed my mind, but I can't think that far ahead right now, I've just got to think one shot at a time, and as of now I'm just thinking about that first tee shot.
Q. How do you gear yourself for that?  It's hard not to think about it, especially if you go back to -- I know you're probably exhausted and you'll probably sleep well, but how do you block that out of your mind to get ready for something where you know there's a prize at the end of it?
JILLIAN BOURDAGE: I think you've got to accept that there can be any outcome.  Yes, I can win, yes, I might not win, but I think I've got to prepare myself mentally for both.  I've just got to let the golf course take me where it needs to.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT