NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: HEAT v BULLS
May 23, 2011
Carlos Boozer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Carlos, for you guys that sit on the bench from time to time and have to come in and out of the game, what is it like with the fans in wake of what happened with Joakim last night? 
 CARLOS BOOZER: I mean, that's part of the game. Fans have the right to say what they want to say after they buy their tickets. They have the right to say what they want to say. Unfortunately, sometimes for us we have to sit there and take it. Unfortunately, that's part of sports. 
 Joakim apologized. I don't really know what happened. I wasn't there. I didn't hear it. I just heard the apology. I don't even know what was said or what wasn't said. I think Jo is doing a great job of apologizing for whatever did happen or whatever he did do. I'll leave it at that. 

 Q. Why should you guys have to take that sort of treatment, if somebody uses obscenities or slurs? 
 CARLOS BOOZER: There should be security to take care of the fans that are inappropriate. Unfortunately, it's sports. That doesn't happen too often. 
 There should be something in place to protect us. At the same time, we have to do a better job of holding our composure. 

 Q. How do you guys counter what they did to you guys defensively in Game 3 yesterday? 
 CARLOS BOOZER: Play better, set harder screens, pass the ball better, move the ball better. Try to get to the spots (Indiscernible) on the floor and just play the group of guys. Play till the end. 

 Q. Joakim said he was frustrated and let his emotions get the best of him. Is that kind of where this team is at? Do you feel unraveling? 
 CARLOS BOOZER: No, not at all. Not in the slightest. I think we're in a position that we have a chance to tie the series up tomorrow. (Indiscernible) This is how the playoffs series goes. Sometimes you're up in the series, sometimes it's tied. Right now we're down. 
 First we have to do what we have to do to win tomorrow night's game. That's the most important thing, winning tomorrow night. 

 Q. The situation could change dramatically tomorrow if you could tie this series up at two apiece, especially from a psychological --
 CARLOS BOOZER: Yeah, that's our goal. We go out there and try to win every game. I think the last two games, the fourth quarter -- Game 2 it was tied at 73 for a couple of minutes with four or five minutes to go. Last night it was a three or four-point game with five minutes to go. They go on a 9-0 run. We want to be the team that goes on the run tomorrow night. 

 Q. Does the mindset just to go --
 CARLOS BOOZER: At this point we're down 2-1. Our goal right now is to win Game 4 and tie the series up 2-2 going back in Chicago. 

 Q. You haven't been in this position all year. Have only lost two in a row a handful of times. Never lost three. Do you feel this is the ultimate test --
 CARLOS BOOZER: We're confident. We're a confident group of guys. We believe in our system and we believe in each other. We believe we can get a win tomorrow. 

 Q. What do you tell to the younger guys who haven't been in this position before? 
 CARLOS BOOZER: What do I tell the younger guys? We just stay together. A lot of teams look for us to be where we are, to have the record we had this season, to win the first two rounds. We're a good team. We have to believe in each other. We do. 
 Get our rest, come tomorrow with a renewed sense of energy and a renewed sense of focus. We have to win the game. 

 Q. Carlos, what do you see them doing to Derrick, not letting him have that breakout game? 
 CARLOS BOOZER: Listen, he's Derrick Rose. He's the MVP. He's going to get a lot of attention. We'll see double-teams, triple-teams, we'll see weak-side defenders getting a lot of attention from them. Trust me, he's doing everything he can to make the right plays for us. We have to do a good job of getting open for him and making shots for him to make it easier for him. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT