NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: JAZZ v SPURS
May 21, 2007
Carlos Boozer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  In a sense, would you say you guys were maybe a little overwhelmed about the stage? 
 CARLOS BOOZER:  Not at all.  I think they got a great first quarter, we were down by one bucket.  Three-point shot, it was a tied ballgame.  I think we did a great job in the second quarter. 
 They got 16 points, 14, 16 points in the second quarter.  We won the second half.  We just lost the second quarter. 

 Q.  The way you played the fourth quarter, is that something you have to realize you have to play every game? 
 CARLOS BOOZER:  We have to play a better second half and start the game.  We have to do better in the second quarter.  At the half we were down by 18.  We won the second half by ten points. 
 We need to be aggressive.  We need to make it a better game. 

 Q.  What do you do with Tim Duncan? 
 CARLOS BOOZER:  Let him do his thing.  Try to crowd him.  He is a good player.  We have to make it tough to make shots.  He is tough to stop and they do a good job. 

 Q.  On offense you seem to get -- you spend the first game getting a feel for things and the second game really asserted yourself.  What's that process?  How have you managed to do that?  Do you need to get a feel for the way guys are going to defend you? 
 CARLOS BOOZER:  I don't know.  Maybe a little bit of that.  Yesterday was so different because I got in foul trouble so early so it was hard to get a good feel for the game.  I didn't get a good feel until the second half.  Once I figured it out, I figured out a way to score. 

 Q.  You guys try to focus on getting one of the three -- Tim, Tony, and Manu play them hard. 
 CARLOS BOOZER:  They are a good team.  All three of those guys are starters.  We do the best job we can on them.  We need to do a better job on them and try to take the rest of the guys out.  We will have a much better chance to win.  It is tough to stop Tony, Manu.  They all have very instrumental parts of the time.  They score in a variety of ways so to speak.  Try to focus on them a little bit, too. 

 Q.  You were down at Houston and you came back. 
 CARLOS BOOZER:  We can come back to win the series.  We lost Game 1.  We didn't lose the series.  We are still confident.  We are going to have a good practice today and tomorrow will be a better game for us. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT