NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: HEAT v BULLS
May 21, 2011
Carlos Boozer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. What do you think is the key going into tomorrow night?   
 CARLOS BOOZER: We just got to bring it. Bring it like we usually do. Bounce back, and correct the mistakes that we made, and play better.   
  
  Q. When you look back at Game 2, defensively you guys still played very well. It seemed like the offense grounded to a halt in the fourth.   
 CARLOS BOOZER: Yeah, we feel like we could play better. At the end of the day, when you view the game, no matter how your defense was, you can play better defense. We always feel we could play better.   
  
  Q. Carlos, Tom always preaches inside-out, inside-out. How imperative is it for you hopefully to get off early in the game --  
 CARLOS BOOZER: We'll get back to it. We shot a lot of jumpers. We'll get back to driving and posting the ball and getting more inside-out. Having a better mix of both.   
  
  Q. Tom was talking yesterday about the need to get easier baskets. Are those harder to come by in playoff basketball?   
 CARLOS BOOZER: The thing about getting easy baskets, you have to make the other team miss so you can get out in transition. We have one of the fastest guys in the world on our team. We give him the ball in transition, we can all follow him and chase him. We have to get stops. Once we get stops, we get the ball in his hands, then run.   
  
  Q. Carlos, you always say just win one at a time. Is the mindset to try to win both?   
 CARLOS BOOZER: Yeah, we can't jump ahead to Game 4. We have to take care of Game 3. Tomorrow our goal is to win tomorrow. And we go from there.   
  
  Q. Do you need extra tickets being from down there?   
 CARLOS BOOZER: I have a lot already. Thank God. At home I get as many tickets as I can, and when I get down there, I'll take care of the rest.   
  
  Q. How long ago does that last game down there seem in early March?   
 CARLOS BOOZER: The last game in Miami?   
  
  Q. Yes.   
 CARLOS BOOZER: It's very long. Seems like a long time ago since we played them down there.   
  
  Q. It's really changed a lot. They clearly played kind of a backs-to-the-wall mentality in Game 2. Is that kind of the way you guys approach this one?   
 CARLOS BOOZER: Yeah. Obviously we feel like every game is a must-win. That's how we've been playing all season. We're not going to change our mindset now. Every game we played this year we thought it was a must-win. You guys know that following us all season. We have a must-win mentality every game we play in. Obviously Game 3 for us we feel like we have to win. We have to win every game we play.   
  
  Q. Do you guys have to do much tweaking? How much does the game plan change and how much is it just executing?   
 CARLOS BOOZER: We'll do our stuff. We've done a lot of preparation. We're as prepared as we can be for Game 3. Our intensity will be better, our focus will be better, and hopefully we'll play better.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT