NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: JAZZ v SPURS
May 30, 2007
Carlos Boozer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Are you surprised how quickly that first quarter spiralled away from you guys out there tonight?   
 CARLOS BOOZER:  Yeah.  They came out very aggressive.  Finley had three shots in a row.  Then Timmy got going.  Tony got going.  It just seemed like it was -- I don't know what it was.  20-4 when I looked up or something.   
 They came out very aggressive and took it to us from the tip.  You know, they played a great game.   
  
  Q.  Carlos, can you talk about your emotions right now?  Obviously at this point at the end of the season, in the big picture, a very successful season for you guys.   
 CARLOS BOOZER:  I'm really hurt right now.  I feel like we had more basketball to be played.  I feel like I got cut short a little bit.   
 Trying to look back, it is tough to do right now because I feel like we should still be playing.  Yeah, we had a successful run for this group's first time being in the playoffs, you know, going from down 0-2 to Houston to all the way to the Western Conference Finals.  I am proud of my guys.   
 Right now it is a little painful.   
  
  Q.  Carlos, it seemed like the last two games the Spurs did a good job keeping you out of the paint.  What exactly were they doing?   
 CARLOS BOOZER:  They had Timmy guard me, a very good defender.  And they had Bruce double me a couple times.  I had a lot of attention.  I tried to pass the ball and make some other things happen.  It didn't go for me tonight.   
 But they are a very good defensive team and they paid a lot of attention to me and they took me out of the game tonight.   
  
  Q.  When you guys get a taste of going to the Western Conference Finals, does this become the expectation for future years?   
 CARLOS BOOZER:  I hope the expectation is The Finals.  I hope guys don't look at this like we did a great job.  I hope guys look at it like we should still be playing.  That's how I feel.   
 My goal is not to go to Western Conference Finals.  My goal is to go to the Finals.  If the guys don't share the same sentiment, we need knew guys.  We had a lot of success this year.  I feel like we should still be playing.  Obviously we ran into a very good team, and a better team than us this series.   
 We will learn from that, but I hope guys have the same vision of winning the championship and not just being successful throughout the playoffs.   
  
  Q.  After the game, Deron questioned the heart of some of the teammates and said maybe some checked out already and was going on vacation.  Did you see that as well?   
 CARLOS BOOZER:  Absolutely.  It is sad to say that because where we are, we are in the Western Conference Finals and we have guys that have vacation plans.  On the other side of the spectrum, you see a guy like D. Fish who flew across the country to make it back to the game.  It is sad to have that.  One guy on vacation, some guys having real life stuff going on and trying to make it back and give him everything he has.  That's a problem and we need to get that fixed this summer.   
 I will never call out a teammate.  I will never say anything negative directly to a teammate because I love my team and I believe in that code, but we need guys that are always going to give everything they have.   
 Like I told him, we need guys that have a championship vision.  When you have your vacation plans already, that's not a championship vision.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT