NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: JAZZ v SPURS
May 28, 2007
Carlos Boozer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Carlos, can you talk about the fourth quarter and what the difference was in the fourth quarter?   
 CARLOS BOOZER:  That was the difference in the game.  They showed their experience on us.  They got to the line a great deal more.  Some were some tough calls.  Obviously some were definitely clear-cut fouls, but they shot a lot of free-throws.  They executed.  They played good D and played a hell of a game in the fourth quarter to win it.   
  
  Q.  Carlos, do you think the team let some of the calls get to you more than it should have?   
 CARLOS BOOZER:  Well, the lead kept spreading as they shot more free-throws.  They did a good job of making their free-throws.  And, you know, it is tough to get back in the game when we're missing shots.  We took a lot of jump shots in the fourth quarter as well.  And when they were getting free-throws, we were taking jump shots.  It is tough to close that gap, so to speak.   
  
  Q.  One of the young guys who had a big role, had a frustrating night tonight, Paul Millsap, trying to defend one of the best players in the league, obviously.  He is also one of the guys involved in some of the tough calls.  Do you have any advice for a young guy like that?   
 CARLOS BOOZER:  For Paul?   
  
  Q.  Yeah.   
 CARLOS BOOZER:  Paul did great.  The one thing that we can always count on with Paul, he brings his lunch pail and hard hat every day.  He brings everything he has.  We can live with whatever happens with Paul because he plays his ass off -- I'm sorry, he plays his tail off every day.   
 You know what?  Some nights are going to be like that for Paul.  But we can live with that because he brings it.  You know, he is one of the guys that has been a huge part of our success this year.  He will bounce back great in Game 5.   
  
  Q.  Can you just talk about the situation that now faces you guys going into Game 5?   
 CARLOS BOOZER:  We are in a dog fight.  We've got to take it a game at a time.  I am sure a lot of people are counting us out of the series.  We will go down to San Antonio and give it everything we have and try to bring it back to Salt Lake.  We know it will be a tall task.  We have a much better feel for this team after playing them four games.  We are down 3-1.  They have three chances to beat us and we are very aware of that.   
 All we can do is toughen up, take it a game at a time and see if we can pull one out in San Antonio.   
  
  Q.  You guys have trailed at halftime in every game in this series.  What do you need to do in the first half in San Antonio differently?   
 CARLOS BOOZER:  Just keep being aggressive.  You know, take it to the rim.  Shoot open jump shots with confidence.  Try to get good stops.  And try to get the lead at halftime.   
 We are definitely trying to get it.  Obviously, we haven't had it.  We are trying to.  All we can do is put our best foot forward and see what happens.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk about Deron Williams and the effort after being sick for a couple of days and coming out and playing the way he did?   
 CARLOS BOOZER:  I am so proud of him.  He did a great job tonight, stepping up, hitting some big shots and continuing to play with that high level.   
 I am really proud of him.  He gave everything he had.  What a performance when you are sick, I am really proud of the kid.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT