NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: JAZZ v SPURS
May 24, 2007
Carlos Boozer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   CARLOS BOOZER:  I have known for a little while now.  Obviously, it is a huge honor any time you get a chance to play for the U.S.  For us guys that were there in Athens who got the bronze, we are very hungry to prove that we are a better team.   
  
  Q.  What does it mean to have Deron there with you?   
 CARLOS BOOZER:  I am excited for him.  A chance to play with some really good players.  Just the practice sessions will be exciting for him because he will get to play with, obviously, Jason Kidd, his idol, and some other really good guards, and the atmosphere, it is great players.  He will come back a much better player.   
  
  Q.  Coach Sloan kind of challenged you guys to play some defense.  He said you looked kind of lost.  Talk about just picking it up to get back into the series.   
 CARLOS BOOZER:  He hit it right on the nail.  We have to play better defense if we are going to have a chance.  We are giving them too many points.  They are shooting a great percentage.  You look at their offensive numbers, each team in the league probably strives to have those offensively.  We have to pick it up defensively just to have a shot.   
  
  Q.  What's the one thing defensively you guys have to do?   
 CARLOS BOOZER:  Defense, we've got to play defense.   
  
  Q.  Is there one element of defense?   
 CARLOS BOOZER:  The whole game.  There is a million things the Spurs do, a million things you have to defend.  Just overall.   
  
  Q.  Talk about coming in down 2-0.   
 CARLOS BOOZER:  Really, it is the same thing, just different things.  We are still behind the eight ball, and it's a good thing we are at home.  I think some of my teammates play better at home as a team.   
 We are looking forward to Saturday night.  Regardless, they are a team that's very confident right now.  I'm sure Houston was, too.  I think that's the bottom line.   
  
  Q.  Talk about being disciplined against their offense for 15, 20 seconds while they go through all the options.   
 CARLOS BOOZER:  It is difficult.  They are a very good team executing what they do.  They have had the same pieces for a few years, and they all know where they are supposed to be at.  They run it very fast and very crisp and they are very determined at what they do.   
 If you make the littlest mistake, they exploit that.  They are very good at what they do.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT