NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: JAZZ v SPURS
May 22, 2007
Carlos Boozer
Deron Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  This game seemed to follow a familiar pattern, almost identical to what happened on Sunday.  Did you feel familiar or similar to Sunday for you guys? 
 CARLOS BOOZER:  Yeah, it was.  The second quarter, they took a pretty decent lead, they missed some shots, didn't shoot as well as we should have.  We were down at 17 at the half.  We have to fix that problem if we are going to have a chance. 

 Q.  In Game 1, they really dominated the paint tonight 13 for 26 from behind the yard.  What does that do in terms of altering your game plan for Game 3? 
 DERON WILLIAMS:  They are just a great team.  They take what the defense gives you.  They can hurt you in so many ways.  Tonight it was from outside.  I mean, they were even with us in points in the paint, it is not like they weren't getting those inside touches, those inside points. 
 They just happened to be hitting tonight.  That's how they are.  You've got to pick your poison with the team and they make you pay in so many ways.  You just got to be -- we got to come up and be defensive minded.  We got to make sure we get stops because it is important for us. 

 Q.  Carlos, you were down 0-2 in Houston and overcame that.  What gives you confidence going back to Salt Lake? 
 CARLOS BOOZER:  I think we can take the fact we played well, just not well enough on the road.  We proved we can score against this team.  We haven't proved we can stop them yet.  That's a little discouraging.  We know if we tighten up our defense a little bit more in Salt Lake, we should have a much better chance.  We just need a couple more guys to step up, give us a little bit more help and hopefully be a much better game in Salt Lake on Saturday. 

 Q.  How surprised are you guys that their movement has been so effective with the back-cuts tonight?  Draw, kick and dish, the dribble penetration, all the stuff they have been able to get? 
 DERON WILLIAMS:  No surprise at all.  We watched film on the guys.  We played against them.  We got to know that when Tim Duncan has the ball, Oberto is cutting to the basket.  That's what he does.  That's how he gets his points.  We just have to be able to stop it. 
 We haven't been disciplined to stop them.  They put up 100-plus points.  You can't beat a team -- like I said last game, you can't get down to a team 20 points in the first half and expect to come back against a team like this.  They make you pay in so many ways. 

 Q.  Deron, how much can you take from being down 0-2 to Houston?  Can you draw on that experience? 
 DERON WILLIAMS:  We can take the fact that we came back and won that series.  That's definitely a positive thing we can take back and we still have a chance.  The series is not over.  I think we're -- it is a lot worse to be down 2-0 to the Spurs than it is to the Rockets because they are a better team, defensively, offensively. 
 They have championships and the guys know how to win.  They are also a much better road team.  They play well on the road. 
 It will be tough for us to get these two victories, but that's what we have to do to even things back up and hopefully come back here 2-2. 

 Q.  Deron, it seemed like every time you made a run they were able to hit an open three.  They made 13 threes on the night.  What enabled them to get so many open threes and how much did that hurt you guys? 
 DERON WILLIAMS:  Every time we started making a run, they made a 3.  They made a big basket.  Barry, Finley, stepped up and hit shots, Tony Parker in the fourth quarter. 
 It definitely hurt us.  We didn't do a good job of defending the three tonight and it cost us. 

 Q.  Did Sloan get on you -- Sloan got on you pretty hard after the first half in Game 1.  Did he say much at halftime for Game 2? 
 CARLOS BOOZER:  What he said basically is we have to play harder and come out with more determination.  It wasn't the same spiel as Game 1, dig deep and fight back.  Don't give up. 
 We tried to come back I don't know how many times.  We cut it down to maybe seven or eight.  You guys know better than I do.  But it just seemed like right when we needed a stop, they got a layup, they got a three and the lead jumped right back up.  Or we had a turnover or what have you. 
 You know, we did a good job of scoring when we had to score and we have to make the game more like two or three or have the lead or when we are down make it one or two possessions as opposed, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven.  You know what I mean?  That's what we have to do. 

 Q.  Deron, how frustrating is it when you play well six quarters and the other two quarters are basically all that separates you from winning and losing games? 
 DERON WILLIAMS:  It is definitely frustrating, especially because we're running ourselves -- when we started the second quarter, this is where they hurt us and we come out and do the same thing.  We come out and play even with them until about eight, seven minutes and it seems like they make a run. 
 A team like that can hurt you with runs because, like I said, they are so sound defensively.  They are going to get stops and they make you pay, whether it is inside with Tim Duncan or tonight with Bruce Bowen with threes. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT