NHL ENTRY DRAFT
June 21, 2003
Craig Patrick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  What was it about this goaltender that made you want to move to get him?

CRAIG PATRICK: Well, we're in a real building mode in Pittsburgh.  We have made that pretty clear.  We decided that the best place to start building is in the goal.  We have got a good young goalie in Sebastien Caron, our other goalie is a little older.  We felt this was a good place to start in the stage that we're in.  We couldn't think -- this was perfect timing for us.  To be able to move only -- we're -- I think we're very fortunate to be in the third position because Florida wanted to make sure they got a good pick out of the draft and they didn't.  So really didn't move down too far.  I think they are going to get the guy they wanted.  Worked out very well for both of us.

Q.  (Inaudible)

CRAIG PATRICK: Come to camp and if he wins the job, play in Pittsburgh but we'll see.

Q.  This morning it came down?

CRAIG PATRICK: This morning.  We have been discussing a lot of things over the last week, but this morning actually 7:51 I got a call and we had three or four more calls after that and got it consummated.

Q.  The thing with players at this young age, being this young, how do you gauge that?

CRAIG PATRICK:  You are never sure of anything when you are drafting 18 year olds.  But I think the guys that are in the top of this draft are pretty predictable.  The next guys that are going are very predictable too.  Very safe picks in this draft early on and we feel certain that Marc Andre is one of them. 

Q.  You mentioned that you got the call this morning.  When you went to bed last night did you think there was any chance that you would be able to pull this off?

CRAIG PATRICK: Yeah, we had talked enough that I am pretty sure in my mind that we would be able to get a deal done.

Q.  Just given where the franchise is and the relative uncertainty is there a symbolic value to the drafting of such an established already established young player, particularly in goal?

CRAIG PATRICK: I don't know what you mean by uncertainty in  --

Q.  Of where the franchise might be, financial situation not necessarily being that clear right now, almost in terms of getting first  -- a No. 1 pick and making that as a statement to the fan base and so on?

CRAIG PATRICK: I suppose maybe.  We didn't think of that, but I guess that's probably a very valid point. 

Q.  I wonder what was it about Fleury that you liked so much?  Was it his personality, or his skill?

CRAIG PATRICK: He has got a great personality, but we based our decisions on skill and we think he's a tremendous, tremendous goalie, very good quickness, very good style, I think he's going to be a great NHL goaltender.

Q.  Having a guy rate this highly at this position does this put a premium now on having a full-time goalie coach to work with this kid right off the bat?

CRAIG PATRICK: That's not something we have discussed yet.  He's going to need a lot of attention for sure. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT