NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PENGUINS v DEVILS
May 13, 2001
Ivan Hlinka
Craig Patrick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Anything that you saw that you didn't see in the regular season, anything surprise you or was this kind of what you are used to in the first game?  Does it take some time to settle into a series? 
 
CRAIG PATRICK:   It always takes time to settle into a series.  I didn't see anything that surprised us.  I thought they played an extremely strong game.  We started out well, but seemed to falter as the time passed on.  I think it is going to be a real good series.  They are an excellent hockey club with a lot of depth, and we'll see what we are made of, but we think we have enough depth.  As long as we stay healthy, we'll be okay. 
 
Q.  Are you concerned at all about how much Mario has left in the tank here? 
 
CRAIG PATRICK:   No.  I think he's got plenty left.  I think we are a little bit drained coming into the game because of our three overtime games at the end of the last series, and then the short turnaround.  But we have an extra day here, so I think everybody will bounce back as strong as we possibly can on Tuesday. 
 
Q.  Is it fair for two teams to finish a seven-game series and have to play two nights later? 
 
CRAIG PATRICK:   That's the way it rolls.  There's no problem with that.  They got an extra day of rest, but that's all right.  It will all even out.  We'll get our rest and our strength back and be ready to go on Tuesday and then see how we do from there. 
 
Q.  In talking about the rest, are you keeping an eye on some of the other guys, maybe with the baby Penguins, honing their craft  -- (inaudible)?
 
CRAIG PATRICK:   No, we are not.  We are entitled to four recalls.  We have used them all.  We can bring people on emergency.  That will be the only case, if we run into some injury problems, depth problems, we could bring somebody in on emergency.  Otherwise, we'll use what we have here.  
 
Q.  What have you thought of how Milan (Kraft) has looked since you brought him up? 
 
CRAIG PATRICK:   I think he looked great.  I think it was terrific they went down and played the way he played.  He came back with a whole lot of confidence.  Feel goods about his game.  Feels very helpful for us, allowing us to play four lines which we definitely needed to do against Buffalo and we are going to have to do in this series, as well.  
 
Q.  What have you thought about the way they have performed in the playoffs?
 
CRAIG PATRICK:   They have been great.  We have some good young kids down there.  Their character is starting to come through and they are getting a lot more confidence themselves.  We are seeing the best of them right now.  They are really, really playing well.  We are so pleased the young defensemen.  Some guys emerged after we traded Slaney and Sven Butenschon because they were not getting the proper ice time to allow their games to come to the top.  And now that they have their ice time, they are playing extremely well.  Same thing with the forwards, we are putting people out there all year.  They are getting some quality time now and it is starting to show.  
 
Q.  Mario's performance and Jagr's performance last night, will you tinker with the lines again, with so few shots on goal?  Are you thinking of making changes to the other lines?
 
COACH HLINKA:   Think it is a good question, but I think it is too soon for me to answer it right now.  We will look at the practice tomorrow and we've still got one more day and we will see after that.  
 
Q.  How much of a factor did fatigue play in the first game? 
 
COACH HLINKA:  You know, I already said right after the game I don't like to talk about who is more tired.  You know, we already got 14 games behind us.  We got the last two, three games in overtime, and then  -- I think we've got a long way to go to do  -- to do the Stanley Cup title, and I don't like to talk about who is more tired.  
 
Q.  Ivan, can you clarify what happened in the final minute?  Did you try to accepted Jaromir Jagr on the ice and he declined? 
 
COACH HLINKA:  We start to play the last ten minutes for  -- I used three lines and after the last three minutes, maybe just ten people there.  Jaromir was on the ice right before we called  -- before we called the break.  He was a little bit tired and was still about one minute  -- 1:30 or something like that, and he is still on the bench, but he was there for last 45 seconds.  
 
Q.  Will you continue to use Mario as much on the penalty kill or could you sit him there and safe some energy for him? 
 
COACH HLINKA:  You know, it's a difficult answer for me.  Sometimes, you know, sometimes you have to decide what is more important for your team.  Like, score the goal under power play and the goal can be for 4-1, or sometimes you need the kill penalty if you are in front 2-1.  There are special things that are very important for the team, and maybe sometimes  -- sometimes he can use the other guys, but, you know, to kill the penalty, it's a very important thing to do in the hockey game. 
 
Q.  Is Jagr's shoulder bothering him to the extent that he is not shooting the puck enough?
 
CRAIG PATRICK:   I don't think so.  I heard his answer like you did earlier.  He's shooting whenever he gets his chance.  He's not holding back because he's got a sore shoulder.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT