U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 1, 1994
Jay Sigel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JAY SIGEL:  Well, three birdies the front, and two the  back.  Five under.  I guess, probably, the best shot I hit  all day was on 14.  I had hit a pretty good drive and had  about 150 yards.  I hit an 8-iron and just hit it just  too good.  It was in the rough, but I didn't have a bad  lie.  It flew to the center of the green and just went  over the back edge and, of course -- down the hill.  I  didn't have a bad lie, but quite a slope there, and I  pitched it back to about eight inches.  So, that really  kept my momentum going.  Then I hit solid shots coming in  from there.  I made one lengthy putt on 9; probably 40  feet.  And other than that, it was --  


Q.  For what, birdie?  

JAY SIGEL:  Yes.  Other than that, it was fairly routine.  Not that the 66 is routine, but some of the shots were  routine.  

JAY SIGEL:  I think so.  I think that the greens were a  little smoother this morning.  The course did play long.  It played longer.  Didn't really drive it out of play at  any time.  I think that was critical.  I don't think I  drove -- I drove the ball better today and I putted  better.  I guess that was the difference.  


Q.  Jay, what was the first year you played here?  

JAY SIGEL:  1958 or '59.  I was 15, so, December, when I  was 15 would have been 1958.  


Q.  Given the technological advantages and  everything, how has this course been able to hold up  against all the modern stuff or has it held up?  

JAY SIGEL:  Well, I think it has.  The scoring -- you  know, I don't think the course could play too much easier  than it is playing.  And I don't know what will be  leading the tournament after today, you know, it is --  the greens are perfect.  They are very smooth.  They are  holding, which gives us the full length of the greens and  width.  Pinehurst, historically, is firmer greens; not  necessarily faster, just firmer, where the green then  becomes two-thirds the size because of the mounding, and  then, getting it up and down from around the greens.  I  mean, I suspect there are players in the field who have  never experienced this kind of play with no rough around  the greens.  So, to further answer your question, yes,  the ball goes a little bit further, but length is not as  important here as accuracy.  There are some subtleties in  the fairways -- you know, it is fine for 260 yards and  then there is a little cut out.  I can tell you  specifically, 11; specifically, 12, where if you hit it  260 down the center, left center, or on 11, left center  like I did, 270 left center, I was in the rough.  Where,  if you are at 250, you are in the center of the fairway.  Same thing on 12.  13 can be that way.  14 can be that  way.  So length helps, but you really have to be in the  fairway to get the ball -- keep the ball on the green and  keep it where you can make par.  


Q.  How close is this course to what you remember  35 years ago?  

JAY SIGEL:  It is in far better shape -- of course, this  is an unusual week, being that it is as soft as it is.  The only thing that really stands out is conditions.  Condition is far better than it has ever been as far as I  am concerned.  I mean, I have been here through the  transition; the grasses on the greens, and I think the  greens and the areas around the greens are about as good  as they have been.  Of course, the fairways are perfect.  


Q.  Jay, are you feeling comfortable now as a pro  and on the tour?  

JAY SIGEL:  I am feeling more comfortable.  I wouldn't say  I am comfortable, but I am certainly more comfortable  than when I started out.  Purposely, I tried to pace  myself early on; didn't play in every event and now I  have played -- this is my sixth week in a row, and I am  feeling more comfortable, yes.  And I think having a golf  club in my hands, I wouldn't say 24 hours a day, but more  often than ever, has really made a difference.  You know,  it is -- and thinking about the game and, you know, what  is going on with it, has been helpful too.  So, yes, I am  more comfortable; I am not comfortable.  


Q.  Something was made by a couple of the  commentators before the tournament started about your  competitive experience here, giving you an advantage.  Do  you feel that is so, especially after the round you shot  today?  

JAY SIGEL:  Well, I said to someone give me a basketball  team with experience or give me one with a lot of talent;  I will take the talent all the time.  Experience is important here, but the way  the golf course is playing right now, I don't think it is  as important as it could be, you know, with the harder  greens and so on, but I don't think that my experience is  going to mean that much, really.  


Q.  What would make it harder; harder greens?  

JAY SIGEL:  Yeah, I think.  


Q.  What else?  

JAY SIGEL:  I think that -- I think, yes, I think that --  this is not necessarily playing like the Pinehurst of  old.  This is -- because of the weather.  


Q.  No wind.  

JAY SIGEL:  No wind.  You know, if you got -- sure, that  is another one.  You have got firm greens and wind.  I  mean, the greens become one-third the size and that is  small.  


Q.  There has been some discussion about Allen  Doyle turning professional.  Have you got any advice for  him?  

JAY SIGEL:  If he asked me for some advice, I will be  happy to give it to him.  


Q.  But no words of advice?  

JAY SIGEL:  Allen is a fine player, and if he turned pro  now at 45 -- what is he, 46?  


Q.  46.  

JAY SIGEL:  He would do just fine.  He'd probably win all  the tournaments in the southeast, you know, of moderate  level, and I suspect he could win some Nike Tour events,  if he can get in them, and Hurricane events, so that is  the only thing I can say at this point.  I'd like to see  him remain an amateur.  I mean, he didn't turn pro 20  years ago, so he ought to at least remain amateur until  he is 50.  


Q.  The length of your birdie putts, and did you  have any up and downs?  

JAY SIGEL:  My birdie putts were on three and four, they  were -- three was about 18 feet.  Four was about 14  feet.  Nine was about 30 feet.  And had an up-and-down on  11; was about six feet.  13 was about 15 feet.  16, I  2-putted for birdie.  

JAY SIGEL:  Well, depending on the winds.  If that rain  just came through as it did, it will -- if there were any  of the greens getting firm, it is going to make the  greens softer again, and I don't know that it will make  it any tougher except the rough will be wet and that will  cause some problems.  So, I think that is about the  only -- the aspect of the very wet rough will be tough.  


Q.  Would you mind repeating the challenge that  Jack Nicklaus made to you to get you to join the Senior  Tour; circumstances of that?  

JAY SIGEL:  Yeah, I spent two days with Jack in May, and  we played and chatted.  There were several questions that  I needed answered; one being how would my amateur career  be affected.  He felt that that was in the record book  and, basically, it was history.  So, that I shouldn't  worry about it.  He recommended that I speak to the  United States Golf Association like he did when he was  contemplating the decision.  Of course, I already had at  that point, but it was a good -- that was a good  recommendation.  He said, after we played and we talked  about what was involved with family and so on, he said  that either way -- either decision that I would make, if  I remain an amateur, he felt because of my condition, my  strength, that I would still be a good amateur and I  would add to my record.  And he said if he turned pro  that I would be fine there too.  He really simplified the  whole thing for me and gave me a lot of confidence;  really a boost to get to that next level, and really get  serious about it.  You know, there were some questions about  travel and family time; he felt that I would have more  quality time for my family, in that I would be -- I would  be earning some income playing golf, therefore, I  wouldn't have to -- when I went back home as before,  being an amateur and in the insurance business, I would  have had to generate income which is pressure within  itself; having to run out and not being available for the  family and maybe being a little uptight and so on and so  on.  And he felt - and I can see that materializing - he  felt that -- that was a very good point.  So those are  really the main points.  


Q.  Where did you play with him?  

JAY SIGEL:  At his course in Florida.  


Q.  Lost Tree?  

JAY SIGEL:  Lost Tree.  


Q.  Jay, Vinny said yesterday before starting,  first he picked you to win here and then he said one of  the reasons, facetiously, that he didn't turn pro at 50  was because you beat him like a drum the last ten years.  Would you talk -- he is well on his way to being low  amateur again.  Could you talk a little bit about him as  an amateur?  

JAY SIGEL:  I think Vinny is a great guy and a real  gentleman and very successful businessman and very, very  good at what he does.  He was a great Walker Cup  captain.  He has been one hell of a player.  In the last,  I guess, eight, ten years he really hasn't played that  much.  He has had to tend to his business.  I do think he  contemplated the Senior Tour and I suspect that if he had  been a little healthier, a little stronger, I think he  might have considered it.  He has a tricky back, but he  has got all the shots and I mean, he has the ability  given that his back is in shape to play very, very well.  I saw him make one swing today on television on 17 and it  is the best I have seen him swing.  He generally swings  at it ferociously, but he didn't in that swing, put it  right in the middle of the green and I suspect that his  back is better because of that.  


Q.  Any idea how you are going to feel tomorrow  especially maybe if you start off with 3, 4 shots in the  lead?  

JAY SIGEL:  No.  


Q.  Mr. Cool?  

JAY SIGEL:  No, I don't.  I am going to tee the ball up on  the proper side of the tee and put it in the fairway and  then hit it on the green.  I am not not going to try to  think about it.  Of course, I was awake this morning at  4:30 being Mr. Cool, because I had to, you know, I was  concerned about the cut also today, so I am a little  tired right now.  


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT