U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 28, 1994
Jay Sigel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JAY SIGEL:  Well, I have played Pinehurst probably 100  times plus, and this is the best condition I have ever  seen it.  Everything is perfect; the sand in the bunkers  is the most uniform I have seen it.  The greens are all  consistent.  I mean, it is immaculate.  It is marvelous.  I am just delighted to be here.  

JAY SIGEL:  Well, the first tournament was awesome.  It  was a lot of fun even though I started off a little  rocky.  I got a little better throughout that.  Second  one was that much better and that was even more awesome.  The third one I was leading the event which was kind of  enough to blow your mind that early and played well, and  I said at that point that these guys really are having  that much fun and I am really glad I made the decision.  And it was easy to make it at that point because it  wasn't distorted financially.  There was really -- after  three events the financial aspects of it were not part of  it and I made that statement; this is really a lot of  fun.  These guys are really a lot of fun and they are  truly having fun.  So -- and then to win in the fourth  event was -- what an exclamation, more than outstandingly  awesome, I don't know, but --  


Q.  Mind boggling?  

JAY SIGEL:  Yeah. So that, you know, I am still having  fun.  And I am surprised at the depth of the players, and  I am surprised at the length and difficulty of the golf  courses.  They are set up somewhat uniformly in that the  rough is modest.  The greens are similar speeds and the  pins are reasonable, certainly, but the length and some  of the shots you have got to hit are really, really  amazing.  So that is the summation of that.  

JAY SIGEL:  Sure does.  I have always felt very close to  the USGA, and I have a lot of friends, and they have done  an awful lot for me.  They have done an awful lot for the  game.  So that is one very, very large aspect.  And being  given a special exemption to play here was fantastic.  Now, coming back to Pinehurst where I  have played my first event was for the Donald Ross  Juniors when I was 15 which happened to be 35 and a half  years ago.  I took the train down from Philadelphia all  night and teed it up the next morning in freeezing  Christmastime.  So I have a lot of fondness for playing  Pinehurst, and a lot of friends here.  I am staying in a  private residence, and I feel real good here.  I have got  a Pinehurst caddy who I have had many, many times and I  think that is the way to go at Pinehurst, and I am  looking forward to the week.  


Q.  How did you do in that junior event; that  first one?  

JAY SIGEL:  I am glad you asked.  I shot 72.  I think I  had seven or eight birdies; shot 72 which was even par  then.  


Q.  Would you --  

JAY SIGEL:  But there were, like, three or four of us  tied.  It was such a large field.  It ran all day, and of  course December 27th, I think it was, at that time it got  dark at 4 o'clock, so there was no time for a playoff.  It was decided that we were going to cut cards.  And  needless to say, I don't like cutting cards, so I didn't  win, but I tied.  But I pulled the wrong card.  


Q.  What course was that played on, do you  remember?  

JAY SIGEL:  Number 2.  


Q.  Who is your caddy?  

JAY SIGEL:  My caddy is fellow named Carl McLaughlin.  Carl has caddied here for years.  He has got two brothers  that caddy here, and he really knows the greens very,  very, very well.  


Q.  How soft are the greens right now after the  rain?  

JAY SIGEL:  They are soft.  The backside, the greens were  getting firmer, and I think without anymore rain they  will be just perfect.  I'd like to see them firm up a bit  and, I mean, you know, we are seeing significant ball  marks when you hit a shot to the green.  But the greens  are the best I have seen them, by far.  


Q.  What can you say about being at your first  USGA event as a pro at Pinehurst?  

JAY SIGEL:  I couldn't think of anything better, really.  Pinehurst is one of my top five courses.  And at this  stage of my life, just playing in a USGA event is great,  and the fact that it is the  Senior Open is very  special.  And I don't think I would want it to be any  other place, really.  


Q.  You have turned pro now.  What led you to make  the decision, and why didn't you turn pro while you were  younger?  

JAY SIGEL:  Well, I didn't turn pro younger because I had  a hand injury at Wake Forest when I was 19 - 1963.  And I  was going to turn pro.  I would have, but I just couldn't  because I didn't play for about 11 months and it took me  about five years to play without pain; couldn't practice  that much.  So I got into a business, started having  children.  We have three girls, and I just didn't think  it would be strong enough, and I don't think it would  have been.  So, why I turned pro when I was 50?  Basically, so many people would ask me the question well,  you are going to turn pro when you are 50, when will you  be 50?  I said well, you know, so and so time, and they  said well, you are going to do this, that, and the other  thing and I am not going to turn pro.  Really, I said  that up until I was 49 -- 49 and a half, really because I  didn't have any intentions and my concentration last year  was really on the Walker Cup Matches.  So, so many people  would ask me.  I finally would turn the question around;  well, what do you think?  And then they would tell me  what they thought and all these people were -- I mean,  101 out of 100 people were extremely positive, so I  thought I better investigate this situation and sure  enough I did and talked to some very significant people  in the game of golf and they answered some questions that  I had, speaking of Jack Nicklaus and Frank Hannigan,  David Eger, David Fay and folks like that, who really  didn't have a vested interest in anything that I may or  might not do, so here I am.  I saw an opportunity to do  something different that might be a little bit more --  well, not a little more.  Certainly more exciting; maybe  than what I was doing, and certainly more risk.  


Q.  What is your most vivid memory from the  amateurs?  

JAY SIGEL:  So many.  I guess losing to Keith Clearwater  in the finals.  We were tied going to the 34th hole and I  am on the edge of the green - I don't know where he was -  but I should have won the hole and I didn't.  I took  three from the edge and I lost 17 and 18.  I think he  birdied 17.  So lost two down.  But so many memories from  that.  That is one event I wanted to win a great deal  only because of Pinehurst and the fact that it was match  play.  


Q.  Being captain at the Walker Cup might have  been the pinnacle of excitement for you?  

JAY SIGEL:  I would say that is true, at Pine Valley in  1985.  


Q.  Right.  

JAY SIGEL:  Yeah.  I did captain in '83 also but that was  at -- in -- I can't think of it at the moment, but it was  across the water.  Hoy Lake.  


Q.  Does it feel a lot different having played  match play here as an amateur for so many years and then  to come back and now you are pro, playing for money in a  stroke play event?  

JAY SIGEL:  Not really because the way I played match play  most of the time was to play the golf course.  Don't  worry about my opponent because I couldn't control him.  And so, no, it doesn't bother me.  It feels really good  just being here and I have always felt that way.  This is  an unbelievable place.  In fact, this -- I like the  things that have been going on here.  They have done  something to the bunkers.  I am not sure what they have  done, but they are far more uniform and the tree  trimming, I think, looks terrific, just terrific.  I  wasn't here 50 years ago, but I can imagine that is what  it looked like.  


Q.  As excited as you are to be here, have you  given any thought to being in contention here Sunday and  possibly winning this thing at this course first time  out?  

JAY SIGEL:  Well, I have thought about it.  But as soon as  I get to thinking about it I dismiss it as quickly as I  can.  I have got to get here for my 1:30 tee time on  Thursday and drive into the fairway.  That is really the  biggest job right now and to prepare as best I can the  next couple of days without overdoing it.  That is one  thing I have had to learn as a professional.  I now have  24 hours a day to work on this thing and I have got to be  careful.  


Q.  Did you ever stop to think how many USGA  events you have played?  

JAY SIGEL:  No.  An awful lot.  27 amateurs, I think.  

JAY SIGEL:  27 and every mid-amateur, and I don't  know how many juniors and 6 or 7 Opens.  


Q.  7 Opens.  

JAY SIGEL:  7, yeah.  


Q.  9 Walker Cups.  

JAY SIGEL:  Yeah.  World events, so you have got 50, 55,  60.  


Q.  You got to be satisfied though that you are  coming here with the game that can win this time?  

JAY SIGEL:  Yeah, I feel I had a good -- I have had a good  week last week in Detroit.  I missed a million putts.  Did the same thing in Atlanta and Birmingham and  Nashville.  So I have played a lot of golf.  I feel  fairly comfortable.  I am hitting the ball -- I feel  good.  I am hitting the ball pretty good, so you know, it  is just a question of scoring and, you know, the ups and  downs from the critical spots and making a few putts.  

JAY SIGEL:  Well, this will be my sixth event in a row and  that is the most I have ever done.  As an amateur I  probably played three at most.  Fortunately, my wife has  been able to travel and my daughter on occasion, so my  wife was out for two weeks in this six week stint.  But I  am just taking it -- early on I sort have had to pace  myself so I'd play two -- or I'd play three and have one  off two or two and have one off and try to ease my way  into this.  But now I see how you can play six in a row  and I think I will be off next week.  I am looking  forward to that and then I will probably play six in a  row more.  


Q.  You said last month you didn't know how you  would take six weeks in a row.  How is that physically  and mentally?  

JAY SIGEL:  Better than I have expected.  I am ready to be  home, though.  I haven't seen my dog, Divot, in awhile, I  miss her, and I just miss walking around the yard and  things like that.  But you know, the six weeks, the five  weeks that I have been out and this week will be-- they  have been a lot of fun.  I'd say they have been very  satisfactory and you know, I am feeling more and more  comfortable on the tour and I am looking forward to  continuing that.  


Q.  You mentioned that you are missing a ton of  putts.  Have you done any adjusting?  

JAY SIGEL:  Yeah, I tried some other putters and they are  history.  I am back to my Ping.  

JAY SIGEL:  Appreciate it.  


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT