ENERGIZER SENIOR TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 8, 1998
Jay Sigel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JAY SIGEL: Yeah, I had my chances on the back side.  I had it close at 10 and missed it.  Close at 12 and missed it.  13, I finally made.  And then I had a chance at 14, and then it was just over at that point.  He just played sterling. All his shots today looked terrific.

JAY SIGEL: I birdied 4 from about 12 feet, wedge.  And 8 from about five feet.  It was just a wedge.  And 13 from about 12 feet, wedge.  And I bogeyed 16.  I missed a green, chipped it up about four, five feet and missed it.  I'm sad to be leaving The Dunes, as you say, what, four top 5s out of five.  But all good things come to an end, I guess.  All good things do come to an end.  Great people here.  It's a great golf course.  I think it's certainly one of the best we play, if not the hardest.  And I think all the players echoed that today.  It's not just the length that makes it difficult.  It's around the greens and on the greens. Just a wonderful facility.


Q.  Your thoughts on going south 25 miles next year?

JAY SIGEL: It's got to be warmer, Jerry.


Q.  Not by much.

JAY SIGEL: I think it's off the water, so that will help.


Q.  Just cut out of the trees.

JAY SIGEL: I haven't been there.  I don't know.


Q.  Jay, you've been around this game a long time.  Have you ever seen anyone, except maybe Jack, dominate like Hale has the last couple of years?

JAY SIGEL: Not really.  I hear the guys saying it's unbelievable how well he plays.  Look what's happened.  What's he won, three opens, three  U.S. Opens.  That says an awful lot about a player. But I don't know that he played like that - and this is what the guys are saying - when he played as a pro, he didn't necessarily play like that, you know, when he was a flat-belly, so to speak.  And I'm just repeating what the guys have said.  I mean, it's certainly kudos for his determination and his desire.  And I give him credit for that, for sure.


Q.  Jay, can you talk a little bit about some of the memories you have here, the first one double eagle on 15?

JAY SIGEL: Everything that's happened here has happened real, real -- real good.  Well, I shot 63, which is, you know, in some pretty -- pretty much conditions like this, which when I think back on it is unbelievable, with that double eagle at 15.  Then I won in '96.  I guess that 63 got me into third that year.  And then winning, really winning.  And then, of course, having that hole-in-one in that third or fourth round on 5; the membership, taking such interest in that to put plaques out, made me an honorary member, which is very special, given who has come before me and that there are only a few.  It always seems that this week is critical from a number of, you know, Cadillac points contracts that we have, some other things.  So it's been a long year.  And, you know, we still had to play right down to the last round.  You know, I had to beat some guys to maintain my position. And, you know, if it's not one thing, it's something else.


Q.  When you made the turn and went back and were playing, you know, with those guys, did you feel pretty good about where you were going?

JAY SIGEL: Yeah, I thought I had a chance.  I hit a real good shot at 10 and didn't make the putt. Of course, I hit a real good shot, and then Hale hit it in two feet.  You know, I still thought I had a chance after I made birdie at 13 and he hit about a four or five-footer for his second putt and just got it in the left side of the hole.  I thought that was big.  And then he makes the putt down the hill on 14, and then 15, and 16, and so on and so on, and so on.


Q.  What's it like, you have a chance to win this golf tournament, you go out and you play well and a guy goes right by you just like if you were shooting bogeys.

JAY SIGEL: More power to him.  It's all we can do, Jerry.  I mean, that's all I can do is perform, and do what I can do.  And if my putter is not -- I had an average putting week and you can't win these events  as an average putter.  You know, Hale is one hell of a player.  Phil thank, Jay.

JAY SIGEL: Have a good holiday.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT