HONG KONG OPEN
December 5, 2013
Lam Chih Bing
Anthony Kang
Unho Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   I'm not sure who should tell this tale but maybe you lead off because you're the man who we know is the Malaysian Open champion who suddenly became a caddie today.   
ANTHONY KANG:   What happened was if I am first reserve for this tournament at the start of the week and I waited all this morning, but nothing.   
And then I looked at all the tee times and all the Asian Tour players, because I would only get in if an Asian Tour player pulls out and I looked at it and I saw that everyone was here and no reports of anybody pulling out, going down the list.   Some guys are struggling on the Order of Merit, they will play for sure, injuries or not.  
I decided most likely I wasn't going to get in.   And I thought, Unho didn't have a proper caddie here, he was going to use a club caddie.   So I thought it might be pretty fun to just go hang out with Unho for a day.  
   
 Q.   But the situation changed when Joonas Granberg, his caddie went to the wrong tee, we gather, so you managed to get in.   
UHNO PARK:   You know, the three of us were sitting down having lunch and I was actually nudging Anthony to go caddie, because we just didn't think we had a chance.   We actually talked about scenarios, you know, it would be really funny if Anthony was on the bag and I got a call and I walked out of the first tee.   
You know, you probably couldn't even script it any better.   And to get paired together, that was just hilarious.   When I got a call to go to the 11th tee, I was just waiting for Anthony to be on the other side and say, gotcha.   But you know, I think somehow it just worked out pretty well today.  
   
 Q.   And Anthony when he did turn up at the tee behind you?  
LAM CHIH BING:   I knew it was going to be him because Unho was coming off the Asian Tour side and when we saw all the debacle going on and the realisation came that it would have been my slot‑‑ but it was too late by then.   But I felt really bad for Joonas for having been in that situation; and felt bad for me, didn't get a start but I'm glad Chih Bing got a start and played a fantastic round today.  
   
 Q.   How was he as a caddie?   
UHNO PARK:   Newbies are always ‑‑ you know, they make a few mistakes.   He dropped the putter cover on the second hole.   From that point on, he was pretty good.   He knows what he's doing.   He's played a lot of golf, so he understands it.  
   
 Q.   Did you feel strange about it, having a champion on your bag?   
UHNO PARK:   No.   I was more shocked at actually the events that transpired on the 11th hole when we teed off because like, you know, like Chih Bing said, we're talking about it and we're talking about the scenarios and what could possibly be happening; and it would be so funny if this happened and that happened.   And it just worked out as we were talking, like we chatted about and was just amazing what happened.   
Again, for Joonas, so unfortunate what happened to him, and yeah, I feel bad for the guy, because he likely needs to play well these last few events.  
   
 Q.   We'll finish with you, because you've had a pretty good round in the end.   
LAM CHIH BING:   I had no complaints, ran out to the 11th tee.   I had an extra club which I took out before I teed off.   I had a bunch of old golf balls, no yardage book, no caddie.   Yeah, worked out pretty well in the end for me.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT