UBS HONG KONG OPEN
November 20, 2010
Anthony Kang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  Third Round 67. 15-Under Total. 195

 Q. Reflect on another day?
 ANTHONY KANG: Really didn't know what to expect. It's been a long time since I've been in the final group in a European Tour event and Asian Tour event as well. I didn't really know what to expect but I knew it was going to be a fun day playing with Ian, world-class player and it worked out. It worked out okay.
 But also I think another thing that helped was the group in front of us, Simon Dyson and Rory McIlroy, they were so fast. I couldn't really think about anything. All we could do was try to catch up to the group in front, which we never did, and so that in itself was a task, too. So overall it was a very fun day.

 Q. You had to fight a bit out there but the results have come your way. 
 ANTHONY KANG: Yeah, you know, it really felt like it was just Ian and I and our caddies in a two-ball on the golf course that's full of people because we didn't see anybody. But you know, happy with the result. 
 Didn't drop a shot today where it looked like I could have on a couple of the holes. I made it up with nice putts there. Very pleased.

 Q. The last is a for-instance. You had that putt from a long range and left it a long way short. 
 ANTHONY KANG: What happened was I've been having like those putts where I go into the grain and downgrain a few times here, especially like on 17. I've been hitting them so hard and hitting them like six, seven feet behind the hole. So decided I'm just going to hit it soft and trickle it past the hole. I just forgot to take the head cover off the putter and really, really hit it poorly. 

 Q. A lot of players say after you've shot a superlative round like a 61, always hard to follow up. Was that in your mind, as well? 
 ANTHONY KANG: No, not really. But after watching Ian start with birdie on the second and eagle on the third I thought, you know, got to keep the gas on the pedal and keep trying to give myself chances for birdies and trying to make them. 
 This golf course, no matter what you shoot, you're still going to have to shoot low the next day. So just got to keep going at it making birdies. Towards the finish I was not hitting the ball as sharply and didn't really have too many birdie opportunities, but didn't lose too many strokes. I still have a shot tomorrow. Granted, I have to shoot another -- we need another one of those wild rounds tomorrow.

 Q. You reflected yesterday this has been a long time coming to get to this situation. Is it duck to water, once you're in it, that's it, competitive all over again? 
 ANTHONY KANG: Like I said, I really didn't know what to expect but just telling my caddie walking down 18, that it has been a really nice day. We didn't make a mess of it, so it was good. I think overall, you know, I'm playing well and hitting the ball decently and putting the ball nicely. 
 I think when you're doing that, your confidence is up a little bit and so even if you have a little bit of the butterflies, I think the way you're playing at the moment kind of takes over. Hopefully that will take care of itself for one more day. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT