UBS HONG KONG OPEN
November 19, 2010
Anthony Kang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  Second Round 61. 12-Under Total. 128  
   
  Q. That is something very special, isn't it, particularly when you come in and the scorer says, "Wow, "To you?  
 ANTHONY KANG: Yeah, she's shocked. Like I was telling Gaia, that every time I turn in a score to her, it's always like 74, 75. So it was a surprise to her. A surprise to me, as well.  
  
  Q. Where did it come from?   
 ANTHONY KANG: Well, it came out of nowhere, really. I've been struggling all year long, but you know, the last six weeks, it's been getting better. I think even from Valderrama onwards, I've been having little stretches of runs where I'm hitting the ball nicely.  
 And then last week in Singapore, I hit the ball pretty nice for at least -- the third round I hit the ball really nice and for the whole round. So it's -- that kind of I guess hitting the ball well for a length of time, it's coming around.   
 Yesterday and today, fairways and greens, hit it basically on a lot of spots I was looking at, which was nice to see, nice to see the ball going where I'm aiming and I made a whole lot of putts today. And bottom line, fairway, greens, make putts, that's it.   
  
  Q. Particularly long one initially that got you to go?   
 ANTHONY KANG: Well, all of the long ones, I think all of the long ones were probably like 25, 30 feet range, something super long or anything like that. It was just a nice round, I put myself in position off the tee and hit it on the greens. Wasn't really trying to make too many putts but wanted to hit the best putt I could and they ended up going in.  
  
  Q. When did you think this was something particularly special?  
 ANTHONY KANG: Not really, because all I was doing was starting out the round, I wanted to make sure I get off to a decent start and put myself in a comfortable position to make the cut, at least.   
 So started off nice, and then I just kind of carrying on, hitting one shot at a time, not really getting too much ahead of myself. And towards the back nine, you know, it wasn't really anything until -- I birdied the last three holes.   
 So before that, it was just kind of ho-hum, kind of 4-, 5-under, like normal stuff, never to like 9-under par, and putts just started going in, especially on the back side. I hit it close on No. 10, like three feet and awful the putts after that were quite lengthy, so it was nice.  
  
  Q. Turned into a ho-hum 61.   
 ANTHONY KANG: Not really. I wouldn't say it's a ho-hum 61, but you get so into it, you forget what your score. It was fun just getting it on the green and hitting a good putt and watching it go in the hole. It was just happening hole after hole, and hopefully it will onwards. But just very, very happy with what happened today.  
  
  Q. When was the last time you shot something so low? How does it compare to the low rounds of your career?   
 ANTHONY KANG: I think this is by far the lowest round.   
  
  Q. By far?  
 ANTHONY KANG: By far, 61, obviously par 70 here, but 61, you know, that's nothing to be too, I guess, what do you say, too bashful about I guess.   
 Like I said, when you're in there just kind of grinding it out, hitting shot after shot, you forget the score and you just keep going.   
  
  Q. And the last time you felt in that mood?   
 ANTHONY KANG: It has been too long, way too long. Yeah, that was a long time ago, about over a year and a half ago.   
 So it was an unfamiliar feeling, but it was a very nice feeling to be able to not feel too much -- not trying to really force the issue and things are just kind of happening, so that was a nice feeling to have.  
  
  Q. Even the victory, albeit that you've got your exemption right through to the end of last year, it does feel like an awful long time ago, doesn't it?   
 ANTHONY KANG: Yeah, it was. What is it, a year and ten months ago?   
  
  Q. Because it's so early in the season?  
 ANTHONY KANG: It is a long time ago. But like I said, you know, it's nice to get this feeling back, especially later part of the year in Europe, as well. And it doesn't really show in scores too much but today maybe just one of those days.  
  
  Q. And something about playing in Asia?   
 ANTHONY KANG: Not so much so because like last week at Serapong Golf Course, I was having a really hard time reading the greens over there and I thought, gosh, how did I ever used to putt on this surface before.   
 And same thing, a little bit of grain here. Fortunately the ball found it's way to the hole. But honestly, in Europe, the competition is so fierce over there that I would like to get myself there and get in the mix because that means that I've become a lot better player.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT