AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 20, 2009
Jarmila Gajdosova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







V. RAZZANO/J. Gajdosova
  6-1, 6-7, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Disappointing in the end?
 JARMILA GAJDOSOVA: Yeah, I mean, I was working there for two half hours to save a match point. To lose 6-4, not the nicest way to end it up.

 Q. How tough was it in the third set with the heat?
 JARMILA GAJDOSOVA: The heat wouldn't really bother me as much as the wind because it wasn't going one way, it just keep going in circles. You never knew. Like the last match, I had no clue where the ball is going. I tried to hit a cross-court. It ended up behind the net, down the line. That was probably the worst part of it all. 

 Q. Was it just the wind? You were up in the last set. Did something just change with you? 
 JARMILA GAJDOSOVA: The 4-2, well, she hold a good game there for 4-3. I was up serving the end where the first two balls, I tossed the ball, I could not see anything afterwards. She could put it on the T, I wouldn't know where the ball is. That game, I just couldn't know where the ball is going. And then, yeah, she hold up for 4-All. 5-4 she hold up again. Yeah, I thought I will start from there a better game. 
 I got my chances. Made couple errors, which I shouldn't. Yeah, the last match point, finish the way it is.

 Q. Despite the loss, do you take some heart from the way you fought back from 6-1 to get through to a deciding?
 JARMILA GAJDOSOVA: Yeah, well, it's nice that I managed to still go through it, at least to the third set, get to the way that I had my own chances and I was actually winning. I just had to close it out pretty much. 
 From one end it's really good and I'm quite happy with that, but in the other way 4-2 in the third is 4-2 in the third. You can't lose from there. It's going to be always hard, so... 

 Q. Where to from here?
 JARMILA GAJDOSOVA: I still play doubles and I still play mixed. I'll still be here obviously still practicing till we go away. 
 I think my next one will be Pattaya, then probably Memphis. That's as far as I know right now.

 Q. Did you feel especially Australian today with the crowd the way they were?
 JARMILA GAJDOSOVA: Oh, they were great. I mean, if it wasn't for them, I think would be even harder than it was already to come back. They helped me a lot. I hope they enjoy at least watching, even I lost. And especially the first set was a disaster, so... I was happy I didn't leave. It was really great of them. 
 Hopefully they will continue supporting the rest of the Aussies, so at least we have somebody still in the draw.

 Q. You're playing here as an Australian. What is the status of that?
 JARMILA GAJDOSOVA: Right now, as far as I know, I still play as an Australian in the Grand Slams. If anything else change, I haven't talked to Craig Tiley or anyone else yet. Right now I still play as Australian. If I play at a WTA event, I'm not sure, but they're working towards it.

 Q. How difficult was today with the heat and wind?
 JARMILA GAJDOSOVA: As I said, we train in it before, so it wasn't something that really bother me as much. Of course, it was hard. It was 37 something on the court. It wasn't the easiest way to be on the court. 
 But I think I'd rather have no wind than 45 degree heat. I would change that for it.

 Q. Have you had much to do with Jelena Dokic?
 JARMILA GAJDOSOVA: As in what? 

 Q. Played with her, hit with her?
 JARMILA GAJDOSOVA: No. 

 Q. Just speaking then, how do you rate her chances?
 JARMILA GAJDOSOVA: Well, she had a good match. She had a great win the other day. Obviously she's playing well. I don't know how she's playing at all. Hopefully she can continue up and get back to where she used to be. She's a great player. She will be. It's just a matter of time. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT