MEDIBANK INTERNATIONAL
January 13, 2009
Jarmila Gajdosova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 E. DEMENTIEVA/J. Gajdosova
  6-2, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
  
  Q. You had a bit of a tough start. What was happening with that?  
 JARMILA GAJDOSOVA: Well, I thought I actually played pretty well. I had chances. First two games it was 30-Love, and most the rest of the games was 30-All and 40-30 and advantage and deuce. I think it was one game which was Love-15.  
  
  Q. Right.  
 JARMILA GAJDOSOVA: So I thought I played well. Obviously she's No. 5 in the world for a reason, so when those big points came up she didn't make a mistake, which I think I made plenty in those points.  
 So I have something to learn from it, but I thought I did pretty decent job. Yeah, I don't think it was something that I got blown away or anything. So, yeah, disappointed because I thought I played well and I had my chances, especially in the second set as well.  
 I had 3-2, two breakpoints, one second serve and one -- I don't know even know whatever you want to call that one.  
 So I was there. I was in the match. I had my chances. I just didn't take them. I jsut have to learn from it. Next time when I play somebody like that, I have to take them and hopefully it will be a different score.  
  
  Q. You felt you played better in the second set.  
 JARMILA GAJDOSOVA: I didn't thought I played badly in the first. I just, on the big points, I made -- on the last shot when I made the point or when I had the chance I just made a mistake really. I don't think I played badly.  
 I felt pretty good on court. Yeah, as I said, I thought she -- I didn't get blown away, which is a good sign, I guess.  
  
  Q. Are you happy with your preparation going into Melbourne now that you've had Brisbane and Sydney?  
 JARMILA GAJDOSOVA: Yeah, I think I am. I mean, haven't been injured for a while, so I think it's a pretty good sign. I had a couple good matches where I played well. I played one girl, she was 15 and one girl, she was five, and also the first round the girl was like top 30 before.  
 So I played good players. I had chances against them. I got very close. I think it's a pretty good sign. Hopefully I will get better and once in a while beat them.  
  
  Q. Did you consult the trainer at the end of the first set?  
 JARMILA GAJDOSOVA: No, no. Coach. No. No trainer. Healthy for a change.  
  
  Q. Could you feel a difference between Elena's level and Azarenka's level?  
 JARMILA GAJDOSOVA: I would say no. I mean, they both play really well, and you can see and feel that, you know, they're Top 15 players. You can see the difference, especially on the big points where they know that they have to win the point and they play that way.  
 They very hardly make a mistake. They come up with the shots you don't expect out of tough positions to make.  
 But, yeah, I think that obviously they have different strengths. Yeah, they belong where they are. So I jsut have to build up towards them.  
  
  Q. What did you find most difficult about Dementieva today?  
 JARMILA GAJDOSOVA: She is a great athlete. I mean, no matter what I tried to do the ball keeps coming back. I keep trying to do what I was told. Unfortunately, I still made a little more mistake than I was supposed to, and that cost me the match, I reckon.  
  
  Q. How hot did you find it out there?  
 JARMILA GAJDOSOVA: Not that bad. I'm used to it by now. I've been here for a long time now, so it doesn't really worry me that much.  
  
  Q. Sam's wildcard is a cause for celebration?  
 JARMILA GAJDOSOVA: Yeah, it's really great for him. It's his first major Grand Slam, so he's really ecstatic about it. Also we gonna play the mixed, so hopefully be better than last year.  
 But, yeah, hopefully he will get a good draw and play well.  
  
  Q. Looking forward to getting back under the Australian flag?  
 JARMILA GAJDOSOVA: Of course. It's my first Grand Slam this year as an Australian again. Very excited. Hopefully going to get a good draw. You know, I'll get to play a couple matches there and the people will hopefully like the way I play and come to support me and take me as Australian again.  
  
  Q. Have you and Sam played mixed before?  
 JARMILA GAJDOSOVA: Yeah. We lost 10-8 in the third set in tiebreaker. We played Erlich/Chuang, however you want to say that name. She's top 4 in doubles. The Taipei girl. I don't know how to say her name.  
  
  Q. What round was that?  
 JARMILA GAJDOSOVA: It was first round actually. They were No. 3 seeded. The match was suspended for like five days because of the rain, so we started on Monday and finished like Saturday or something.  
  
  Q. How are you guys playing tennis together on the court?  
 JARMILA GAJDOSOVA: It's actually not bad except I chunked a double in the match point, so that didn't help. Yeah, it wasn't bad. He played for the first time mixed doubles, so he was a little bit nervous and didn't want to mess it up for me.  
 On every point, I'm sorry. I didn't want to miss that. It's quite funny, because he was serving to the girl jsut like kickers, and the backhand kept bouncing over her. So it was pretty funny.  
 It was good; it was fun. I think we match actually pretty well together. We need to play a little more matches together, but I think it's good.  
  
  Q. Doesn't create any extra tension off the court?  
 JARMILA GAJDOSOVA: No, not at all.  
  
  Q. Are going to take Sam's surname when you get married?  
 JARMILA GAJDOSOVA: Yeah. I will be Groth for sure. It will sound great if I put my full name plus his, jeepers.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT