APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 14, 2015
Jarmila Gajdosova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 P. KVITOVA/J. Gajdosova
  3‑6, 6‑3, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
   
 Q.   Despite the loss you must be pleased with how you stretch Petra and how you hit the ball?  
JARMILA GAJDOSOVA:   Yeah, I thought I actually played pretty well.   She start playing better in the second set than she is the first.   I think she gave me too many unforced errors.  
The third set I was happy that I managed to break back.   I felt like I had the momentum going, but unfortunately I had few chances to go 5‑3; didn't quite go my way.  
Overall I really thought that I played really one bad game that somewhat cost me, and after that‑‑ she still served very well, so it's kind of an iffy game.  
I did all I could.   Yeah, I felt good out there.   I thought I did pretty solid job.   Unfortunately things didn't go my way, but I still made a quarterfinal, beat 11, 12, whatever in the world, and almost No. 4 in the world.  
So I am pretty pleased with the way ‑‑ I mean, I would like to win, but pretty pleased with the way it went.  
   
 Q.   After the first set, Jarka, did you think that maybe an upset was in the air?  
JARMILA GAJDOSOVA:   She's 4 in the world for a reason.   She won a Grand Slam.   She's never going to hand it to me because she lost the first set.  
I knew it was going to be a battle still.   She up her game a little bit in the second set.   Starts going for her shots more.   She start being aggressive out of the first shot so she put me under a lot of the pressure.  
I had few games that I somewhat managed to make a comeback a little bit.   It was a little bit unfortunate that she had to serve‑‑ that she got the two breaks on me.   
Yeah, it still was long way away, but I thought I handled myself pretty well.   Stayed with her toe to toe until the end.   Unfortunately couple chances I got I couldn't use.   You know, just turn on few points.   
   
 Q.   Do the five matches, two in Brisbane and three in Sydney, tell you where you are heading into Melbourne?   
JARMILA GAJDOSOVA:   Look, I think I've been playing the best I have for a few years now.   If it's going to help me to play really well the Australian Open, I'm not sure.   Obviously all depends of the draw, and every match is different.  
I like the way I've been playing so far these past two weeks.   I think most of my matches kind of look the same:   I was very solid and I made my own luck and I think he I played good enough to match the top 10 players so far.  
I beat two very good players this week, so I'm very happy with it.   Whatever is going to happen in Melbourne, we'll see about that.   
I'm not going to take what I've done now‑‑ if it's going to mean I am going to make third round at the Australian Open.   Whatever happens is going to happen.   
   
 Q.   Did you feel any added pressure knowing you were the only Australian female left?  
JARMILA GAJDOSOVA:   No, not really.   I quite enjoy playing Sydney.   I like being here.   I lived here for five years, so I spent a lot of time in Homebush.   
It's nice to play on the center court a night match against somebody like Petra.   We practice enough together, so it's definitely very enjoyable.   The crowd was fantastic.  
They support me from the first point to the last.   I couldn't ask for any better atmosphere out there.   It was more fun and enjoyable out there than the pressure itself.   
   
 Q.   When things started going, you seemed really calm and collected.   
JARMILA GAJDOSOVA:   That's a first.   (Laughter.)  
   
 Q.   On the outside.   
JARMILA GAJDOSOVA:   Thank you.  
   
 Q.   Is that a new Jarka thing?   
JARMILA GAJDOSOVA:   Trying to be.   Trying to be.   I been working on it.   You know, as you know, the past three, four years hasn't been the most enjoyable and the peachy one for me.   
I figured that whatever amount of years I have left in me I'm going to try to enjoy it as much as possible and be as fit as I can be, healthy as I can be, and play the best tennis I can.  
Unfortunately it's not just hitting a tennis ball in a tennis court.   That would be really simple, because a lot people can hit a great ball.   But there are a lot of other things involved.   The top girls are the top girls because of that part.  
So I try improve on that.   I had a lot of help.   I'm glad you can see that.   That's a good thing.   That's kind of I guess really positive outcome of everything.   
Yeah, it did help me the past two matches.   I was set and 2‑Love down in one and then I was 4‑Love down in the other and I managed to win and come back strong.  
So I'm very pleased with that.   
   
 Q.   Your coach said he was pleased that you didn't get into frustration, that that's the Jarka from the past.   
JARMILA GAJDOSOVA:   Yeah.   Chris has been telling me that for all last year pretty much.   He knew it's going to be a tough comeback concerning I haven't played for so long and I had to start playing challengers.   I had to play people I didn't know.   I had to fly like to Japan to play on synthetic grass with sand which does not work for me whatsoever.  
So it was kind of a battle of emotions and try to figure out how to get past that.   Then I think after Wimbledon slowly start kind of going my way, start clicking, and everything came together.  
He really kept making sure that I understand that it's not just my tennis that's going to help me to come back, but there is another part involved.   He been really trying to remind me of that every day, and every time I walk on the tennis court to understand and know that if you keep it together, pretty much stay positive, doesn't matter how bad it goes, you still can win.  
Unfortunately for my side, because he's right, I could prove that yesterday because I was 6‑1, 2‑Love down and I was getting beaten pretty badly until then.   Then one game here and there, and next thing you know I was 6‑3 and 2‑Love up with a break.   So I hate to say it, but he was right.   Don't tell him that, though.   
So I'm really happy with that part.   I'm glad he keeps getting on my case, as annoying as he can be some days.   But he's right.   
   
 Q.   How was your recovery after the late match last night?  
JARMILA GAJDOSOVA:   It was strange.   I didn't get home until like 1:15, got to sleep at like 2:30.   Woke up at 9:00 because I was starving.   I didn't have dinner.   I ate at like 4:00 in the afternoon before my match.   Then we had to wait and then we didn't know if we're going to play.   So it was all messed up.  
Then had breakfast and went back to sleep until 12:00.   Then you have to leave to get ready and hit.   So it's kind of out of it.   Last four days have been really strange.   Ever since I played the night match in Brisbane with all the rain, pretty much I've here every night until between 8:00 and 1:00 a.m., so hopefully I get to sleep tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT