BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY SUNCORP
January 5, 2015
Jarmila Gajdosova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. GAJDOSOVA/S. Zhang
  6‑4, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Be a nice way to start year.   Unusual, but nice way to start the year. 
JARMILA GAJDOSOVA:   Yeah, I'm pretty happy with the way it went.   We had few rain delays and I had a little bit of a tumble on the court.
But it wouldn't be a tennis match for me if I didn't.   Happy it's nothing serious happens.   Overall it's a good start. 

Q.   What did you do?   Did you fall over?
JARMILA GAJDOSOVA:   Yeah, the court was wet and I was going for a shot and pretty much slid all the way through baseline.   So few scrapes, but nothing too serious.

Q.   How about the shape of your game?
JARMILA GAJDOSOVA:   Um, I thought it was pretty solid match.   There are few‑‑ I didn't serve as well as I would like to.   There are few mistakes that you wouldn't usually make, but I thought overall it was pretty good match. 
My coach seemed to be happy the way I been playing.
It was a little bit difficult today as conditions are really heavy and everything was super slow.   I'm hoping by tomorrow, Wednesday, whenever I play the next match, it's going to get a little bit better.   Overall it was good.

Q.   How do you think your game will stack up against Ivanovic?
JARMILA GAJDOSOVA:   It's going to be definitely very fast andquick match.   She's very aggressive.   She has a big forehand.   Obviously she's very good player.   She's been top 10 for very long time and No. 1 in the world and all that. 
So it's definitely not going to be easy.   I'm looking forward to the challenge.   It's someone I have never played against before, so...
I will play doubles probably tomorrow first.   I have to prepare for that first, and after that we'll see.

Q.   Is it exciting getting to play a top‑10 player?   I know it's early in the season, but it really gives you an idea how you're feeling. 
JARMILA GAJDOSOVA:   Yeah, I mean, it's still very early in the season.   It's only second match, so you can't really tell much by what's going to happen on Wednesday.   But I will try to do what I practice and what I am good at and hopefully it's going to be enough to match up against her.
Again, I'm very excited to play against her.   She's a top‑10 player.   It gives me an opportunity to see where my game is, what I need to improve.

Q.   Did you change anything around for your pre‑season this year?   Still with Chris?
JARMILA GAJDOSOVA:   Yes, I'm still with Chris.   I trained here in Brisbane for the past month and a half or so.   I just live a cross the road.   It's very convenient.   No, not much.   I've been working on my fitness with Tennis Australia trainers, so Alex.   They've been really great to me.
Yeah, pretty much working the same, following the rules and what my coach says.

Q.   Set a wedding date yet? 
JARMILA GAJDOSOVA:   Yeah, no, not quite.   Working on it.   Hoping for somewhere end of the year, but it's still very much open because my job is really busy and his is as well. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT