APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 6, 2014
Jarmila Gajdosova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







L. DAVIS/J. Gajdosova
  6‑4, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   What did you make of that?   Things got pretty tight in the second set.   Couple of set points.   A little bit unlucky there. 
JARMILA GAJDOSOVA:   Yeah, look, I had a lot of chances.   I was 4‑2 up.   I thought I start pretty well.   When it gets such a score, it really can go either way.
I tried to play as well as I could.   Unfortunately, made too many errors when it counted and maybe few bad shot selection, bad choices I made. 
But I think I'm still missing a lot of match play.   I'm not used to seeing certain situations and balls coming my way.   It's going to be a long process back, but I can take the positives out it of it ‑ hopefully there were some ‑ and move on.

Q.   Overall how are you feeling with yourself and your game?
JARMILA GAJDOSOVA:   There are good things, bad things.   There is still a lot that needs to be improved.   It's not definitely where I want it to be.
Physically I feel okay.   Not great.   I'm still very tired.   I think the two hours in the sun took a lot out of me, and I just finished doubles as well.   My body is not quite used to such long matches so many points and stuff like that. 
So it's still a long ways away, but I think I can only try to train and hope it's going to get better. 

Q.   A mixed afternoon and the doubles.   Rather take the singles win than the doubles? 
JARMILA GAJDOSOVA:   It's still nice to get a win.   Makes your day a little bit better.
It's still nice.   I need some matches under my belt and some wins as well to give me some confidence for my singles. 
I think I struggle a bit with that considering I haven't played for almost nine months.   It's not easy for me right now.   I try to do the right things and be positive and fight as much as I can, but it's not easy if you haven't played.   It's not easy losing. 
As I say, it's still a long way away.   Hopefully take positives out of it and it'll get better. 

Q.   What are your plans for 2014?   I mean, with ranking where it's at, what do you do to chip away at it and get back into the top 100 and go from there?
JARMILA GAJDOSOVA:   Well, right now I still have Australian Open, so if I could actually win a round finally, then, you know, the hundred points will move me heaps forward.
The last two weeks of points that I had to defend from Brisbane and Hobart last year, so pretty much anything I'm going to win right about now it's going to help my ranking. 
I will try to play a couple challengers after Australian Open, one in Burnie and then one in Launceston.   I play FedCup as long as I get nominated.
And then I was planning ongoing to Brazil for the two tournaments, one on clay and one on hard.   I don't think I'm going to make it to Indian Wells and Miami with my ranking, so I will have to train a little bit and try to play some smaller events, challengers.
As I said, it's a long way back, so it's going to take a while. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT