BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL
January 2, 2013
Jarmila Gajdosova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







L. TSURENKO/J. Gajdosova
  1‑6, 6‑1, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Obviously extremely disappointing.   The difference seemed to be night and day between the first and second set.   Can you just take us through the second set?
JARMILA GAJDOSOVA:   Yeah, it's disappointing I guess.   First I was looking forward to playing Maria, so that was a disappointment to start with that I didn't get to play her.
Then, yeah, the rule is funny.   Lucky loser gets to go straightaway to the second round, so it's kind of unfair, I reckon.   But oh, well.   She's really, really lucky loser, I guess.
I thought I started pretty well actually.   I started pretty decent from the ground and kept my serve, which was really good.
Then I think she struggled.   She had a little bit slower start at well so she didn't expect‑‑ I don't think that I started that quickly, that well. 
And then second set I just give her way too many points and then she started catching up to it and pretty much give way a lot free points I think, a lot errors today that were not necessary to make.
Just lost the rhythm completely towards the end of the first set.   Then I tried too come back in the third.   I tried to fight through it and find a way to obviously win, but unfortunately lost my serve first game.
Then I was playing catchup ever since.   You know, then a little bit of pressure comes up, and, again, I played half of the points good, half of the points ‑‑ you know, I made errors that were not necessary to make either.
So I think it's a lot to learn from it.   I think I need some more matches.   You could see that I was still going very much up and down and it wasn't consistent enough.
I guess credit to her that she stayed through the match and just played the good points when it counts.

Q.   Does it feel like a missed opportunity, more like you lost rather than she won?
JARMILA GAJDOSOVA:   Definitely.   I think the whole match was pretty much on my racquet most of time.   Obviously she made winners and she defend well and everything, so obviously she had to do some things right to beat me.
But I think that most of the things ‑‑ it was on my racquet.   I lose matches and I won matches literally, so unfortunately it was this time ‑‑ wasn't very good match from my side.
As I said, I still have a lot to learn from and a lot to work on, and I need more matches to find the rhythm and to learn how it better to play the points.

Q.   Did you get some encouragement though from the third set?
JARMILA GAJDOSOVA:   Yeah, I think I actually played better the second and third set against Vinci.   I was pretty happy with the way I started.   As I said, just my second match so there was a little bit of nerves playing up. 
But I thought it was pretty good.   I felt pretty good playing the points.   I thought I moved well.   I thought I hit the ball when it was necessary to hit it.
Then, yeah, you just‑‑ I don't know.   The errors keep going and going.   Unfortunately, they were at very wrong times. 

Q.   Antonio seemed to be saying to you, Just keep the ball in play.   That was a pretty strong message coming through. 
JARMILA GAJDOSOVA:   Yeah.   Well, he wants to be to be consistent obviously.   Everybody knows I can hit the ball.   It's not a problem. 
He's trying to make me stay in the points longer, which I was trying to do.   Unfortunately I only did it half of the times, and the other half I gave away free points, which doesn't matter who you play, it's going to cost you matches eventually. 
It cost me today, which is really a shame, because there was opportunity for me to make the quarterfinal if I was playing well and it slipped away.
So I will have to start again next week in Hobart and hopefully do better.

Q.   Is the hard thing about what you're trying to do here in making your comeback just having patience, knowing it might not come straightaway, but you have to let it build over time?
JARMILA GAJDOSOVA:   I think so.   I'm not the most patient person.   I'm working on it and I'm trying to be.   But once you were 25 in the world, to start again from 180 and rely on the wildcards or try to play qualifying again, it's not the easiest thing to do.
I've done it before obviously few times.   I got back to top 100 from injuries I think three or four times, so it's not the first time. 
Yeah, it's going to take time.   I had a chance to help it a little bit, maybe a little bit quicker than it was going to happen. 
Again, there is a lot of work to do.   For me to be ready to play quarterfinals I have to play better than that.

Q.   Do you feel a little bit more at peace personally though having had your family with you the last few weeks after the sort of terrible times lately?
JARMILA GAJDOSOVA:   Yes, it's been very nice to have them here.   Obviously I am very disappointed that they didn't get to see me play in the quarterfinal.   I was going to play Daniela as well, which would be very much fun for them to watch us, because we trained together in Noosa for ten days.   We played exhibition and we know each other very well, so it would be very nice match for everybody. 
Yeah, I guess it's been very good to have them.   They're staying all the way to the Australian Open, which will be fun for them for the first time in Australia, first time in the Grand Slam.
So I'm sure I will play better than that. 

Q.   Have you received a wildcard for the Open yet?
JARMILA GAJDOSOVA:   No.

Q.   So you're from here going to Hobart, is it? 
JARMILA GAJDOSOVA:   Yes.

Q.   You must be confident of one if you're not playing quallies?
JARMILA GAJDOSOVA:   No, I got a wildcard for Hobart.

Q.   Yeah, but the Australian Open?
JARMILA GAJDOSOVA:   Oh, yeah.   Well, I'm in quallies so far, so I will decide based on ‑‑ yeah, I haven't talked to anybody, so I will see what I decide to do and go from there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT