BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL
December 30, 2012
Jarmila Gajdosova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. GAJDOSOVA/R. Vinci
  4‑6, 6‑1, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Must be exhausted but uplifted after that.   
JARMILA GAJDOSOVA:   Not exhausted really.   I think my training sessions were much harder than the three sets.   Physically I feel very good, and very happy and glad to have a win under my belt.  
   
 Q.   Must be a nice flushing into what's been a really difficult year for you?   
JARMILA GAJDOSOVA:   Yeah, it's nice to finish I guess 2012 on a winning note, and especially beating somebody as Roberta.   She's 16 in the world and No. 1 in doubles, so she's obviously playing very well.   
It's been a while since I beat somebody that high ranked, so I'm very happy with the way it finished.   Hopefully it's not the last one.  
   
 Q.   How did you hook up with a new coach?   How did you meet Michael?   Is it Michael?  
JARMILA GAJDOSOVA:   No, no, no.   I start working with Antonio Van Grichen, yeah.   So pretty much my off‑season.   Been so far so good.   
   
 Q.   Where do you know each other from?  
JARMILA GAJDOSOVA:   For a long time.   Pretty much since I was a kid.   He coached Azarenka for five years, and Ana, and I don't know who else.   He's been out there for long time.  
   
 Q.   That was a really tough start.   You dropped your serve at first and then were under a lot of pressure in your second service game.   You didn't win the first set, but you got yourself into the match.   That must have been pretty important.   
JARMILA GAJDOSOVA:   Yeah, the first game I was a bit nervous.   I mean, I haven't played since September.   I haven't had any match practice under my belt, so there was a little bit of nerves playing out there.  
Also she's a tricky player for the first round because she has a very good slice, she doesn't give you much rhythm, and you have to be careful what you do.   
So, yeah, it's been difficult to start with, but I thought I hang in there pretty well.   Except that one service game, I served pretty well.   
In the second and third set I started returning a little bit better and make more pressure on her service games, so she start giving me a few second serves and start a little bit feeling more pressure from my side, which was very good.  
   
 Q.   Groundstrokes have always been a solid part of your game.   Were you concentrating on the return of serve?   What were you working on in the pre‑season?   
JARMILA GAJDOSOVA:   I think kind of general about everything.   I did a lot of work on fitness and movement.   Of course groundstrokes you still have to improve.   There is still a lot of things.   You have to be very consistent and still be aggressive.   Then we worked on the serves and returns a lot as well.  
So I was in a way I guess lucky that I had about eight weeks of preparation, which is a long time for a tennis player for the off‑season.   
So I tried to prepare as well as I could, and just time will show how really well it's going.  
   
 Q.   You had a little bit of treatment during that first set.   Everything okay?   
JARMILA GAJDOSOVA:   Treatment?   
   
 Q.   No, you didn't have any?   
JARMILA GAJDOSOVA:   No, no nothing.   Everything is fine.   Healthy as a horse.   (Smiling.)  
   
 Q.   So your next opponent is about as big as she can get.   
JARMILA GAJDOSOVA:   Oh, well, you know, the bigger they are the better they play.   No, it's always fun to play Maria.   Last time was US Open.   I was set and a break up against her.   
It's been obviously a long time.   She's been playing very well the whole season and she won French Open and everything.   You know, Maria is Maria.   You're never going to get anything less from her than all she has.  
I'm looking forward to it.   All I can do is go out there, fight for every point as I did the first round, and hopefully play very well.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel like the better players bring out the best in you?  
JARMILA GAJDOSOVA:   In a way I think so they do.   You know you're going to get best there is and you know you'll have to fight and bring something more to the table than to other people when you play them.  
But it's always fun.   You kind of try to do your best and try to excel in what you do because you're trying to bring your game up to their level.   
So all I can do is do what I do right and what I do well and fight for every point and play as good as I can.  
   
 Q.   After not having a win in the main draw since I guess the French, how important was getting this one over the line today heading into the new year?   
JARMILA GAJDOSOVA:   Um, it was very important to me to obviously win.   I was going on court to win and I was trying to win obviously.   
But overall, I was just trying to perform to the level what I was training, what I was trying to improve and get better at.   
Despite my ranking, it's going to take time and a lot of the matches till I get to the level I want to be at.   That's the main goal:   To try to get as many matches as I can to improve and get better and everything.   
So it's important.   It's great for my confidence obviously.   As you said, I haven't won a lot of matches and then I haven't played.   
So altogether it's not easy; therefore, the more matches I get the better it is.   
Obviously it is very important and I hope to play many more.  
   
 Q.   You haven't been worried?   There hasn't been any doubts that have risen over the bit of a drought that you've had?   You've stayed pretty confident you could get back to where you were a couple years ago?  
JARMILA GAJDOSOVA:   Yeah, look, there was a lot of things happening in my life off the court and on the court as well with the injuries and everything else.   I guess there is nothing worse can happen to me so far than it has already, unfortunately.  
So from that point of view you can only get better.   I am 180.   It's a long way to where I was, but only time will tell.   I will just keep playing and training and doing all I can to get back to where I was and hopefully better.   
There is no pressure; there no expectation.   There is only me working hard and trying to get to the level I want to play and get better as player and as a person.  
   
 Q.   A little bit of emotion after match point.   Talk us through that.   
JARMILA GAJDOSOVA:   Yeah, look, it's been tough.   As you all know, my mom passed away in September.   It's been a difficult time.   First Christmas as well without her.   
My dad is here, my brother and his wife and son who watch me right now as well, so it was a bit ‑‑ I guess first match in front of them and first match in Australia after long time, and as well without my mom.   
It was a bit difficult, but it's always good to win at least one.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT