U.S. MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 17, 2019
Yaroslav Merkulov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talk about the match this afternoon; first eight holes nobody tied.
YAROSLAV MERKULOV: Yeah, I was up quick two and then wind really started picking up, and this golf course is built for the wind because once the wind kicks in, if you're a hair off, it's a mile off, right. I didn't really let it get to me that it was going back and forth. I was like, just keep plugging along. You can't beat yourself up on 3, 4, 5 and 6 when you've still got 12 more holes to play. There's no sense -- just take the blows, roll with the punches, you know.
Q. Obviously I think it turned for you on the back nine. Was it 12 or 13?
YAROSLAV MERKULOV: 12 was --
Q. You took the first lead at 13.
YAROSLAV MERKULOV: Yeah, 12 was big. Made like a seven-footer to win the hole, and I was freaking out over that hole just because it was like 25-mile-an-hour winds, and the greens were rolling like at 12. I don't know what they're at, but I couldn't get my ball to settle, and I'm like, I don't know how I'm going to hit this putt. Yeah, and then after that, finished with a slew of birdie-eagle-birdie finish, and that's just kind of hard to beat.
Q. How far were the putts?
YAROSLAV MERKULOV: 14 it was three feet --
Q. Did you drive the green?
YAROSLAV MERKULOV: No, I laid back, and I hit -- from like 60 yards I hit a little punch shot into the face of the slope short of the green, kicked up to three feet, but that putt was ridiculous. I had like a three-foot putt that I had to start about a half a foot outside the hole. And then on 15 I was about seven feet for eagle, and then --
Q. How far was your shot in?
YAROSLAV MERKULOV: I had 208 out of the rough. I hit 9-iron.
Q. A 9-iron 208 yards?
YAROSLAV MERKULOV: The ball is frigging flying out here. At sea level my 9-iron is my 155 club.
Q. And 16?
YAROSLAV MERKULOV: 16 he conceded a four-foot birdie putt. I had already missed his birdie and it was over then.
Q. I noticed you're limping. Did this happen before coming here?
YAROSLAV MERKULOV: No, so I got into Denver about two Saturdays ago and I was just in the area working for the week, and then Thursday I'm walking at CommonGround and I'm just walking down the fairway, and next thing you know I like fell over, I'm keeling over in pain. I'm just like, this is not good. So been icing it, ibuprofen, lidocaine, TENS unit, kind of the works.
Q. Every painkiller -- have you tried CBD oil, too?
YAROSLAV MERKULOV: I have the CBD oil with me, as well. Literally everything I can do to try to calm it down and it's not working. I was in the emergency room Sunday night trying to get it looked at, and nothing --
Q. Anything they can do, it's just swollen?
YAROSLAV MERKULOV: The arch is collapsed on my right foot, but I can't tell if that's because of the swelling or if it's actually collapsed.
Q. But you're able to play?
YAROSLAV MERKULOV: Yeah, no, it doesn't impact the swing whatsoever, so I kind of looked at it as like, all right, any other golf tournament I probably would have packed it in, been like, it's not worth the injury, I'm going to keep injuring it. This is a national championship, I'm not going to walk away from this.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT