DUBAI DUTY FREE IRISH OPEN HOSTED BY THE RORY FOUNDATION
July 7, 2017
Paul Peterson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  67, 10-under par.  
PAUL PETERSON: Yeah, happy with how I'm playing.  Putting it really well and just playing simple golf, which just been kind of making it complicated lately.  It's nice to get back to playing like the way I should be.   
 Q.  7 has been a kind hole to you this week.  Two holes in two days.  
PAUL PETERSON: It's nice.  It sets up for a nice little draw off the tee.  Just hit two nice little shots.  I hit hybrid yesterday to nine feet and made a nice one to probably 15, 20 feet today.  Hopefully it's kind to me this weekend.   
 Q.  Has anything changed today from yesterday, weather conditions, maybe blowing a bit more this afternoon?  
PAUL PETERSON: We had perfect weather yesterday.  I think any weather today was going to be more weather than yesterday.  But yeah, I felt like I controlled my ball well out there.  The course is in awesome shape and excited to get going this weekend.   
 Q.  How do you enjoy links golf, because it's quite dramatic on the front nine, flattens out a bit on the back nine but it's a fantastic location.  Is it something you enjoy?  
PAUL PETERSON: Yeah, I love coming over here.  Actually my first time to Ireland, but links golf, we have a little bit of it in Oregon where I'm from at Bandon Dunes, so I've played a little of it.  The thing I like about it is it doesn't really favour long guys or short guys, because there's so many doglegs with wind coming across that you have to just position it nicely and strategise your way around it which I really enjoy.   
 Q.  Is it more mental side of the game that you have to think about shots more than you would normally?  
PAUL PETERSON: I think sometimes middle of the green can be okay in links golf, and you know, you get a couple two putts and try to pick up some shots when you get some good pins or the downwind holes.   
But you know, there's other weeks where you're just trying to flag hunt and you don't really have to think much about the wind.  I just think it fits my style of golf with having to think your way around.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT