UBS HONG KONG OPEN
December 9, 2016
Paul Peterson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Thoughts on the day?
PAUL PETERSON: It's also fun when you get that kind of momentum in the group.  It's like you get guys hitting it all over the place and you're the only one playing good and you're like, man, I hope this round ends.  But when you can feed off Danny, it's good, as well.
Q. What are your thoughts into the weekend?
PAUL PETERSON: Just put together something steady and I think we'll be right where we want to be at the end.
The consistency I had in Asia, so many top 5s -- although you see the results are there, it's like, it's tough.  You move up and some of the rounds it really pushed you on The Asian Tour; if you're around 30th and you shoot something 2-under par, you might stay at 30th, versus I felt like over here at times, especially my rookie season in some of the smaller-pursed events, you could shoot 2-under par and move up a bunch.
That's what we want.  We want to be moving the right direction and playing with better players each week.
Q. Just talk about your day and Danny having a great start.
PAUL PETERSON: It was good to see him get off to a good start.  David and I hit really good wedges on 3, get my first birdie of the day, and then birdied 4.  Hit some good shots.
I felt like coming in, that shot I hit on 10 was really weird because I was trying to play to the middle of the green, and I don't know, I caught a little bit of a flyer and things started moving left on me into that bunker and ended up making bogey there which I thought was kind of a bonehead mistake.
But I was pretty happy with how I was playing for the most part and just told my caddie, you know, it's like a satisfactory goal would be even par the last four, and if we can get 1-under, it would be a good intermediate.  And dream goal would be 2-under, and I was able to birdie 16 and 18.
It was good to accomplish that goal and not have quite as much to make up on Rafa heading into the weekend.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT