UBS HONG KONG OPEN
December 8, 2016
Paul Peterson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Paul, your thoughts on your start here at Fanling?  
PAUL PETERSON: It was a nice start today.  Rolled the ball really, really well.  Put a new putter in play the last couple weeks ago and just been working really hard on my putting back home in the States and paid off today.   
 Q.  Is it a putter that just felt right?  
PAUL PETERSON: It's been something that I've been kind of working on for the right time, getting the right look.  Actually travelled to San Diego to see Scottie Cameron Ron -- well, his partner down there in Carlsbad.  We got some new sight line options for me and it seems to be working, so hats off to those guys.   
I wasn't really a fan of the line, so we switched to a dot on top, and it's just letting me use my math make a little bit more.  The linear just wasn't working for me.  So yeah, it's working.   
 Q.  And it's working here to the effect that I think that's your best score, isn't it, at Fanling?  
PAUL PETERSON: It is, yeah.  My goal was to kind of get it to between three and 5-under for the first two rounds, and to kind of meet that first day was great.   
So I came off sinus surgery a few weeks back and haven't really done much, and so expectations are low and just trying to have fun with Luke and kind of get in our own little world.  It was cool to see some putts drop.   
 Q.  That surgery, successful?  
PAUL PETERSON: Yes, very.  Energy is so much better.  Can breathe, I don't remember the last time I breathed this well.  So it was nice to feel good and be energized and definitely felt a lot better coming overseas.  Just felt like I recovered faster, so it's been good.   
 Q.  Does that mean it was inhibiting out on the course, depending what the weather conditions were like?  
PAUL PETERSON: I think so.  Mainly I couldn't get rid of pressure on airplanes, which was really painful at times.  It was just something I've had to push back because I've wanted to get my status in Asia and it was get status in Europe and just not having the time to do it.   
So took advantage of the break and no, I feel great.   
 Q.  Given that we're in the back end of 2016 and a 2017 season for Europe, but do you reflect with great fondness, having got that first victory in the Czech Masters, as well?  
PAUL PETERSON: Yeah, there's not really too many days that go by where I don't think about it.  It meant a lot to me and it seemed like it was good timing with the Rolex Series now coming out and those things.   
So good timing and great memories.  Hope to get in contention a little bit more this year.   
 Q.  What is the logo?  
PAUL PETERSON: A caddie passed away on the ladies tour in Dubai, so we're paying respects to him.   
 Q.  Did you know him?  
PAUL PETERSON: No.  Didn't know him.  It's just I think it's kind of a traveling family out here.  We're all trying to do our best out here and it's sad to see someone who has worked hard for players out here pass away, and the fact that we've had two in two weeks isn't great with Pedro down in Africa.  It's sad for the caddies and the friendships that they have created; to have two guys go in two weeks is really sad.   
 Q.  How many times have you played here?  
PAUL PETERSON: This is my third time here.  So yeah, I had a good round going on Friday of last year.  Unfortunately missed the cut but knew that I can get it going out here.  I've always liked the golf course.  I just haven't played it as well as I felt like I should and just, yeah, had a good day today.   
 Q.  Do you feel it's a course that should suit you or maybe it hasn't in the past?  
PAUL PETERSON: Yeah, that's kind of how I feel.  It sets up good for me.  You know, it's relatively tight which suits me, because I'm not the longest guy in the world.  It benefits good putters, so I've just always felt like I underachieved a little bit out here a little bit.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT