CIMB CLASSIC
October 30, 2015
Paul Peterson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Thoughts on your round for today.  
PAUL PETERSON: Really steady.  Took advantage of the par-5s really well today, compared to yesterday, maybe just one more.  But really steady.   
Hit some great iron shots.   
Seemed like every putt wanted to at least go in, which was good.   
So, I'm happy about Friday and where my game is heading to the weekend.   
 Q.  What happened yesterday as compared to today?  You made quite a nice move up the leaderboard today.  
PAUL PETERSON: I think it was just a little bit more converting.   
I hit a few more greens on the front nine today than I did yesterday.   
Seems like yesterday some of the putts I made were, unfortunately, par saves as opposed to birdies.  But I think sometimes those are the biggest momentum swingers.   
So I had some good positive momentum to kind of keep me in the round yesterday.   
And then played well on the back nine to post under par.  I thought something around, if I shot something in the 60s yesterday, I was going to be really, really happy.   
But I just controlled my ball really nice today and stuck to my process.  And I'm converting really, really well inside 125 right now.  So, yeah, just happy with where my game's at and looking to build to the weekend.   
 Q.  Obviously, a good position for the weekend as well.  
PAUL PETERSON: Yeah, I haven't seen anything, no leaderboard watching.  So I know there's some guys ahead of me and I got some work to do.  But, yeah, just looking forward to the weekend and moving up.   
 Q.  The highlight of the day must have been the four straight birdies in a row.  9,10,11 or -- maybe your best birdie of the day?  
PAUL PETERSON: Best birdie of the day?  That birdie I made on 13 was great.  That was a plus.  Hitting 6-iron in there close and making that one.  So that was fun.   
And, yeah, I'm really, really happy with where my game's at and just looking -- I love this golf course.  Good memories from Maybank.  So, looking forward to the weekend.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT