SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY ACER
October 2, 2020
Sophia Popov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Golf on my birthday is...
SOPHIA POPOV:   Fun sometimes.  (Laughter.)  But only when I play well.
Q. What was it like out there today?  I mean, you kind of have -- get to compete again out here on the LPGA with all the craziness you've been through, but to come out an celebrate a day with your sisters on tour.
SOPHIA POPOV:   It was just really nice.  I mean, the day also turned out to be really beautiful.  It was a little chilly this morning.  I was like, this is not birthday weather quite yet.
It's really nice.  I dreamed about being out here full time for such a long time.  Just being able to tee it up and not having -- and also having more fun than pressure is a nice thing.  It's like I tee it up and I'm excited for the round instead of teeing it up and just thinking about all the things that I have to accomplish in order to get here.
And I think that just changed my mindset so much.  So obviously now today being my birthday, I can enjoy it when I'm out there and don't have to feel this necessity to have to play my best golf.
Q. What my schedule looks like in a week and a half, two weeks.
SOPHIA POPOV:   Exactly.
Q. And then you get to share a birthday with Anne.  How special is that?
SOPHIA POPOV:   It's like -- it's the best.  I mean, obviously we're best friends, so to be able to celebrate together, I think there is nothing better than that.  It just turned out so nicely now, because a couple months ago we were talking about we just want travel together and we want to enjoy spending more time together.
Now we actually have that, and our birthdays.  So pretty excited about this afternoon/evening.
Q. What do you have planned?  Anything?  Few drinks?
SOPHIA POPOV:   Nothing crazy, but we might have a drink or two at home.  Just celebrate with -- my parents came for both our birthdays, and so probably just have a relaxed evening, a drink or two.
I have to play tomorrow.
Q. So get ready for weekend; nothing too crazy.  The putt you made for birdie on 17.  Looked like you putted through about three feet of fringe.
SOPHIA POPOV:   Yeah, probably more like six feet, five feet, yeah.
Q. Hard to tell from where we were.  That was an impressive putt, and you had a few others.  The one that made an audible pow when you slammed into the (indiscernible) early this the round.
SOPHIA POPOV:   Yeah.
Q. That was like --
SOPHIA POPOV:   That one I actually didn't think that I started it on the right line, and I was just happy it went this.
Q. It was really loud.
SOPHIA POPOV:   I expected to miss on the left side and then it went in and it was exciting.
Q. Had a couple lip-outs.
SOPHIA POPOV:   I did.  A lot of burned edges.
Q. Yeah.  And on 12, the relatively short par-4, got hung up in the fescue.
SOPHIA POPOV:   Yeah, uh-huh.
Q. That was annoying.
SOPHIA POPOV:   Just a tough break.  Literally went in three inches and it was -- you could barely see the ball.  I mean, that can happen out here, though.  You kind of just have to take your medicine sometimes, chip it out sideways.
Still only have a wedge in for most parts.
Q. Other fescue shot you had on 4, the nice thing was you could see it immediately.
SOPHIA POPOV:   Yeah, yeah, exactly.  That one was a little bit easier.
Q. I do got one more for you.  How many times have you played competitive golf in a tournament on your birthday, if you can remember?
SOPHIA POPOV:   Oh, my God.  A lot; pretty much every time.  Last year I was in Daytona.  Usually I was in Daytona the last few years.  That's why --
Q. At Tour Championship?
SOPHIA POPOV:   That's why my friends on Symetra we're they all texted ans said, We're so bummed, because we would always meet up on my birthday and go to the sushi place, Ronin.  Now they're like, We're kind of bummer we can't celebrate your birthday with you, but obviously they're happy that I'm here and wouldn't want it any other way.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT