U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 9, 2016
Eun-Hee Ji
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR: It's my pleasure to welcome Eun Hee Ji into the media center.  She had a rounds of 69, 71 and today a 2-under par 70, for a three-day total of 210, 6-under par, currently tied for second place.  Eun Hee is the 2009 U.S. Women's Open champion, playing in her ninth U.S. Women's Open this year.   
Another great round today.  Can we go through your card a little bit and talk about some of the birdies you made today, starting on the third hole which you birdied for the third day in a row?   
EUN HEE JI: Oh, yeah?  I didn't know that.   
MODERATOR: The par 5.  Do you remember what club you hit in or how long the putt was?   
You birdied two on the back nine, the 13th hole and then the 17th hole.   
EUN HEE JI: Yeah, I remember 17.  I hit a good driver, middle of the fairway and 158 yards to the pin.  And I hit a 6-iron into the wind and just hit it front of the green and just a little rolled up next to the pin.   
MODERATOR: And then sometimes in Women's Opens, pars are just as important as birdies.  On 18, you had to make a great up and down to save par.  Talk about what that meant heading into the Sunday tomorrow.   
EUN HEE JI: Yeah, I hit it right side to my driver in the rough.  So I had to get it over the right tree.  I hit an 8-iron and hit another, in the rough, on the left side.  Actually, me and my caddie talking about I can carry the water or I have to go right.  So my caddie said you have no problem to cover the water, but I feel like I have to go right because this rough's really thick.  So sometimes I couldn't get into the ground.  So I talked to him, I really want to go right side.  So he say, okay, if that's what you want, just do it.  So I just hit it to the right and just made up and down from there.   
MODERATOR: Great chip and then the tap-in for par.   
You've won the U.S. Open before, in that year in 2009, you were in the final group.  How can you use that experience from seven years ago for tomorrow when you might be in the final group again?   
EUN HEE JI: I forget it.  I'm not trying win, you know?  I just play -- focus on my game and trying to play my game and trying to be patient out there.  Yeah, that's all, I think.   
MODERATOR: On the course today, the course seems like it plays very differently in the morning than the afternoon.  Can you talk a little bit about how even during the course of the round today it could have gotten firmer or windier as the day went on?   
EUN HEE JI: It is a lot windier today, so we have a lot different club for today.  Actually No. 1 and No. 2, No. 10, I got 5-wood and hybrid.  So that was pretty long par-4 for me.  And fairway and greens a lot firmer than yesterday.  I'm trying to be -- watch my landing spots, so trying to find my landing spot.  So I talking about my caddie a lot.   
MODERATOR: And right now you're one behind Lydia Ko.  She'll be in the final group tomorrow.  Have you played with Lydia before, and how well do you know her?   
EUN HEE JI: Yeah, we are good friends.  We played a lot, even practice rounds, too, yeah.   
 Q.  How did winning this championship change you, change your life, change anything?  
EUN HEE JI: I have a title for U.S. Women's Open champion, so that makes a lot more like for the people they saying to me, oh, you're the Open Champion, yeah, just like that.   
 Q.  Do you know much about Park, the long hitter?  
EUN HEE JI: Just a little bit, yeah.  Not really.  She plays on Korean Tour, so we don't know each other.   
 Q.  Didn't know if you'd read anything?  
EUN HEE JI: Not really.   
 Q.  You've won this championship.  Lydia has not yet, but she's won so much other stuff, how would you appraise her as a fellow competitor, just how good she is?  
EUN HEE JI: She's a good player.  She hits pretty straight and she is really great putter game.  But this Tour has a lot of good players, so, yeah.   
MODERATOR: How would you compare your game to Lydia's?  How is it similar?  How is it different.   
EUN HEE JI: I think we hitting same distance but she's young and she's more like confidence more.  About same, I think.   
 Q.  What do you do to keep the pressure off?  You said you're not really focused on winning so much.  But what do you do after the game to keep the pressure off of yourself?  Do you go dancing?  Do you roller skate?  What do you do?  
EUN HEE JI: Actually my caddie talk to me a lot when we have like difficult shot or if we -- on the read.  He talk to me a lot.  He talking about other than golf.   
MODERATOR: Do you do anything off the course, as well, to relax?   
EUN HEE JI: Not really.  I watch a lot of drama and TV show, that's all.   
 Q.  Naturally that begs for a follow-up question.  What's your favorite TV drama that you do watch?  
EUN HEE JI: I'm Korean, so I watch a Korean drama.   
 Q.  What's your favorite show?  
EUN HEE JI: Korean.   
 Q.  I know, but is there a name of the show?  
EUN HEE JI: In Korean?   
 Q.  Well, Korean and the English translation?  
EUN HEE JI: I don't know about the English (speaking in Korean), they do amazing challenge.   
 Q.  Amazing challenge?  
EUN HEE JI: Yeah.   
 Q.  Sounds like a golf tournament?  
EUN HEE JI: Yeah.   
 Q.  This is kind of a little off topic, but how much of a disappointment would it be next month if the Republic of Korea does not win the gold medal in women's golf?  Are people talking about that, and do you think female golfers will be feeling this pressure and will it be a disappointment if that gold medal does not happen?  
EUN HEE JI: That's good question.  Yeah, they will be playing the Olympic for a gold medal.  Some people disappoint.   
 Q.  How much would it mean if Korea was able to win the Olympic gold?  
EUN HEE JI: Koreans like, if we win, going crazy.  They like to party and, you know, yeah.  So I think if they win they going crazy, I think, yeah.   
MODERATOR: Eun Hee Ji, 210, 6-under, tied for second place here in the third round.  Congratulations on today and best of luck tomorrow.   
EUN HEE JI: Thank you so much.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT