FUBON LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP
October 23, 2015
Eun-Hee Ji
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Great job again today, 3-under 69, you hold the lead by one heading into the weekend.  How do you feel so far?
EUN HEE JI: Actually I hurt my middle back today, this morning actually.  So this one, just bothering me on my swing, and especially with my driver.  So I missed a lot of fairways today and so I just focus on my ball because my -- bothering my swing, so I don't want to think about my swing.  Keep my focus on my ball and I just be patient just like yesterday.
Q. When did you hurt your back?  Was it in the warm up or on the swing today?
EUN HEE JI: Just before warm up.  I wake up and I'm just hurting.
Q. Just really tight?
EUN HEE JI: Yeah, really tight.  Just a little bit of massage this morning but still hurting.
Q. Double-bogey on 6.  What happened there, and talk about recovering with birdies on 9, 10 and 11?
EUN HEE JI: Actually my driver hit in the rough and actually out-of-bounds, lost the ball.  I hit second one, I hit in the fairway but I with as thinking about my driver shot.  My second shot was going right in the rough and I just made it on the green and 2-putt.
Q. How big was it to get birdies on 9, 10 and 11 to kind of recover from that?
EUN HEE JI: So I never think about my swing, so that wasn't really helping me.  My iron shot wasn't too bad, so my iron shot was, hit it to the green, and my putting wasn't too good.  But it was close to the pin so I just made a birdie.
Q. You're playing very well.  How will you feel tomorrow going in with a one-shot lead?
EUN HEE JI: First thing, I have to get release on my back so I don't have to think about my swing.  And weather is going to be like this tomorrow and the day after, so trying to be patient every day and just focus on my play.
Q. How much was the weather a factor today in comparison to yesterday, as well?
EUN HEE JI: Actually, it's just a little bit of rain more today.  But the greens are going to be softer.  So that one makes a little easier actually.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT