U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 6, 2010
Eun-Hee Ji
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, we're so happy to welcome back the defending champion, Eun-Hee Ji, who won last year in a remarkable come-from-behind victory. I would like to ask you, Eun-Hee Ji, how has this last year been for you? Your experiences as the women's Open champion. 
 EUN-HEE JI: Um, I'm really happy about that. Everybody recognize me after that, and I have more confidence. I have more confidence. I can focus my own game.
 THE MODERATOR: You can focus on your own game? 
 EUN-HEE JI: Yeah.
 THE MODERATOR: How do you like Oakmont? How do you like this golf course? 
 EUN-HEE JI: Beautiful out there. Pretty hard, the green. I think really harder to play on tournament, yeah.
 THE MODERATOR: To play a championship on the golf course? 
 EUN-HEE JI: Yes.
 THE MODERATOR: What shots do you think will give the players the most problems? 
 EUN-HEE JI: Um, I think second shot. Every hole, second shot. We have to really -- to really good positions, and is really hard greens. So we have to good distance try. Yeah, it's hard.
 THE MODERATOR: Questions from the media? 

 Q. You won this championship last year. What's been different for your game this season as opposed to last year?
 EUN-HEE JI: Oh, I change my swing a lot, so, first couple tournaments is really -- I play really bad, but getting better right now. And I think pretty good play this tournament, and last year is -- I talking before I have more confidence, so I can play really good confidence, yeah. 
 THE MODERATOR: How did you change your swing? What did you do to change it? 
 EUN-HEE JI: My older swing is like Sergio Garcia, high and drop down. But now I change it more flat, flatter. 
 Yeah, so I have more distance and I can control a lot of shot, yeah.
 THE MODERATOR: More accuracy? More accurate shots? 
 EUN-HEE JI: Yes. 

 Q. Do you have a favorite hole out there? Any hole you like playing better more than the other?
 EUN-HEE JI: Which hole is that? Par-4, really short par-4. 
 THE MODERATOR: 17? Or 2? 
 EUN-HEE JI: Yeah, 17. Yeah, 17. 
 I think I can get there on the green, so I'm trying really hard there. 

 Q. It's a hole that tempts you. They want you to try for it, and yet there's the safe play and the layup. Have you decided yet how you're going to play that?
 EUN-HEE JI: Oh, how do I say that? 
 If they put a back tee, I just lay up there. But if they put on more forward, I can go for. 
 THE MODERATOR: So if the tees are more forward you will go for it? 
 EUN-HEE JI: Yes. 

 Q. When did you decide to make your change? And also, is this a process of trying to find this rhythm and to get your game back, how has it affected you, you know, mentally or emotionally on the course?
 EUN-HEE JI: I change the swing just this year, January, with, you know, Karrie Webb coach, Ian Triggs, with him.
 Yeah, he pretty much talk to me not much swing, just mental. So I change the swing, but I'm really -- I can trust my swing right now, but first time I can't trust my swing. But now I can trust. 
 Before my shot is always fade shot, so I can't hit the draw shot. But now I can both draw and fade.
 THE MODERATOR: Karrie Webb's coach's name was...
 EUN-HEE JI: Ian Triggs. 

 Q. Because of the heat and the humidity, does that affect your game at all?
 EUN-HEE JI: Not really, but it's really hot out there. I have to more relax and I have to more stay in without sun. So before tournament I have one more like one-and-a-half hour, but I think here like hour be better for me. 
 THE MODERATOR: Doesn't take as much warming up, does it? 
 EUN-HEE JI: No. 

 Q. At Bethlehem last year, can you make some kind of comparison? I know this is like apples and oranges considering the venues, but how different is playing Oakmont practice rounds and playing Bethlehem last year Saucon Valley? As a course in general, how different is it? 
 EUN-HEE JI: Last year is more long rough, and then really narrow fairway. Yeah, that's different.
 Here is not that long rough, and then not wide, but we can go for some couple hole, but really hard green here. Lot of slope there, and, yeah, we have to really good second shot, iron shot. 

 Q. I asked a couple of players already today about the practice round. Will that dictate the type of clubs you will have in your bag? Will you have more wedges or hybrids or more woods? Is this going to change what's in your bag at these first couple practice rounds?
 EUN-HEE JI: No, I just keep my club. But I was changing always couple tournament, at each of the tournament, but I have driver and 3-plus and 4-wood and 3-hybrid, and then all the iron. 
 But we have to -- is really long course for LPGA player, so we have to lot of good shot. Yeah, so everybody keep the hybrid and fairway wood. 
 THE MODERATOR: How about wedges? You keep the same wedges in your bag this week as you normally play? 
 EUN-HEE JI: Yes. Pretty much same as... 
 Yeah, I change the new wedges, like just brand new. Yeah, because I have to more good spin on this green, yeah. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much. You did a good job. Congratulations. We look forward to seeing you this week. 
 EUN-HEE JI: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT