U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 11, 2009
Eun-Hee Ji
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, we welcome Eun Hee Ji, who today shot a very fine round of 70. She's in at 54 holes even par. I want to very quickly ask her about her four birdies. If you would just tell me the club that you hit to the green and how long the putt was on No. 7. 
 EUN HEE JI: I don't remember. I didn't bring my card in.
 RHONDA GLENN: We'll do that afterwards. Overall, how do you feel about your round today and the way you played? 
 EUN HEE JI: (Through translation.) Beginning the round today, I think my game was a little bit shaken up, you know, particularly in putting. I wasn't putting well. 
 But, you know, going towards the latter half of the round, my feel for my shots and the putting, I returned and I was able to play better in the latter half, back 9.
 RHONDA GLENN: I noticed you missed only one fairway. You hit every fairway but one. Has that been the case earlier rounds? Is that the way you're playing this week? You're hitting a lot of fairways.
 EUN HEE JI: (Through translation.) You know, I was a little bit inconsistent on the first day, the first round, but starting second round I got the feel for my shots back. Especially today, I was able to locate the balls anywhere I wanted, basically.
 RHONDA GLENN: One of those good days. All right. Do we have questions? 

 Q. I just wanted to know what you thought about the conditions out there, and especially the wind. How much did the wind affect play more today than the other two days?
 EUN HEE JI: (Through translation.) Well, course-wise, I think the pin locations have favored the players who can hit the accurate driver. And I think you had to hit your driver accurately to have a chance. 
 Now, the wind-wise, you know, it was a little difficult on the long holes, so it was a little bit difficult. But everything was working so well for me today, so it wasn't much of a factor. 

 Q. I also wanted to know, did you look at any leaderboards, especially on the back 9? And did you feel you were gaining ground rapidly on the leaders?
 EUN HEE JI: (Through translation.) Well, you know, I have this habit of looking at the leaderboard every chance I get, you know, so -- yes, I definitely looked at it, especially on the back 9. Yes, I looked at it almost every time I had a chance. 
 RHONDA GLENN: And did you feel that you were making ground? Did you feel that feeling as you looked at the leaderboard on the back 9? 
 EUN HEE JI: (Through translation.) Yes, of course I saw that I was gaining ground on other players, and, you know, every time I look up at the leaderboard and see my name up there, it kind of gives me the excitement. It makes me a little nervous, but in a good way where you can maybe compete a little harder. 

 Q. Will you sleep well tonight, knowing the position that you're in going in there tomorrow? Will you sleep well tonight?
 EUN HEE JI: (Through translation.) Oh, yes, I mean, I sleep well anywhere. So I wouldn't worry about that. 

 Q. No nerves, then, when you get on the first tee tomorrow?
 EUN HEE JI: (Through translation.) Well, I think I will be a little nervous tomorrow, but, you know, to me it's just another golf tournament. It's another, you know, Tour event. I'll be fine. 

 Q. If it rains tonight, will a softer course help your scores, do you think? Or will it be more difficult in softer conditions?
 EUN HEE JI: (Through translation.) You know, I think in some ways it will help, and some ways it won't. Talking about my driver, I mean, I'm not a long hitter. I'm not a heavy hitter. So, you know, I think it will hurt me a little bit there. But then again, if we talk about greens and my second shots, I know the greens are very firm and hard right now, and I think in that regard it will help. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT