HSBC WOMEN'S WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
March 3, 2019
Eun-Hee Ji
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You finished with a 2-under round today, and you were in contention going into the final round.  How would you sum up your week here at Sentosa Golf Club?  
EUN-HEE JI: Actually, like course is really nice out here, and I just keep trying to make fairway and greens as possible.  Greens firm here.   
So it was really hard to get -- hold green, and you know, I always have to think about how much roll I have.   
That's all, I'm just trying hard.   
 Q.  You finished your round, Sung Hyun Park closing with a best of the week 64.  How good a round is that, given the conditions on this golf course?  
EUN-HEE JI: She hit it really well today.  She hit the shot pretty close to the pin and she made everything pretty much.   
You know, that's the shot she had today.   
 Q.  It looked for a while as though it would be a two-horse race at the top of the leaderboard and Minjee Lee was playing well and then she bogeyed the drivable par 4, 14, and it was pretty much Sung Hyun at that stage.  
EUN-HEE JI: Yeah, I feel badly for Minjee.  But Sung Hyun was playing really good, so that happens all the time.   
 Q.  How many times have you played with Sung Hyun in competition?  
EUN-HEE JI: I don't know.   
 Q.  Quite a few?  
EUN-HEE JI: Yeah, yeah.  I played with her before she came out here, and when she came out here, I've played a few.   
 Q.  Where would this round rank amongst the best rounds she's played with you?  
EUN-HEE JI: I think this is the best round with me, yeah.   
 Q.  Your caddie, Martin, was voted Caddie of the Year.  That must have been a very special moment for both of you?  
EUN-HEE JI: Yeah, we've been together for six years now, so I'm really happy for him, and he's my best caddie ever.   
 Q.  What are the main strengths that he brings to your relationship as a player/caddie combination?  
EUN-HEE JI: You know, just we talk much, and just being together as well as possible, just trying.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT