HSBC WOMEN'S WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
March 1, 2018
Eun-Hee Ji
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Pretty steady round for you, other than maybe that bogey on your last hole.  Tell us about your round today.  How do you feel?
EUN-HEE JI: First tournament last week, so I tried to get into more tournaments, but it wasn't that good last week, but it was okay.
So I tried to feel more comfortable this week, and I mean, I hit a lot of good shots today.  I made a lot of putts from there.
Q. You missed that bogey on the last.  Are you still thinking about it or once you walk away, you forget?
EUN-HEE JI: You know what, I'm pretty -- forget about it, after that hole, yeah.  It's not a big deal.  Just one shot.  That's my first bogey today.  I mean, it's not a big deal for me.
Q. So you did mention that you are quite happy with this round today.  How does that set you up for the rest of the rounds?
EUN-HEE JI: I feel pretty good for this round.  You know, after I won last year, I feel more comfortable and I feel more confidence.  So I'm trying to keep higher.
Q. Do you still think back to that win in Taiwan?  It was a long time between wins for you?
EUN-HEE JI: Yeah, I got a lot of celebration after that.  But it's over already and we have a new year is coming.  I'm just trying to get that position again.
Q. How do you celebrate?
EUN-HEE JI: When I go back to Korea, I stay in a small town.  So I bring a lot of people to my house and we just have a lot of fun.
Q. Did your mom cook or did you cook?
EUN-HEE JI: We bring some cookers.
Q. You catered the party.
EUN-HEE JI: Yes.
Q. So what do you do to celebrate a win?
EUN-HEE JI: Just have a lot of drink and I just met a lot of people.  Yeah, that's it.
Q. What would you be drinking?
EUN-HEE JI: Everything.  Everything.  Whiskey, beer, Korean Soju, alcohol.
Q. How long ago would it have been that a missed putt at the last or a dropped shot at the last would have upset you?
EUN-HEE JI: Just a little bit.  Just at the time.
Q. But how many years ago did you let those kind of things bother you?
EUN-HEE JI: Hard question.  Like about five years.
Q. Did anything happen to make you say:  I'm being ridiculous, I just need to forget these things?
EUN-HEE JI: Yeah, I tried to do that.  I mean, golf is like up-and-down, up-and-down, all the time.  I can't be up there all the time.  So I'm trying to be more calm and I'm trying to be more what I want to do.
Q. And what is what you want to do?
EUN-HEE JI: I was trying to fix my swing and right now, it's a little bit almost there.  So I'm being more comfortable with my swing.
Q. And is it your teaching, you're teaching yourself with your swing or is somebody helping you?
EUN-HEE JI: I do mostly but my caddie also a little bit tells me about it.
Q. How long have you had him for?
EUN-HEE JI: Five years already.
Q. Just tell me, what is the main thing he teaches you, tells you to do?
EUN-HEE JI: I was long on my backswing, so I'm trying to keep it shorter.
Q. Do you know his name?
EUN-HEE JI: Martin Bozek.
Q. How long was that last putt, and was it right-to-left, left-to-right?
EUN-HEE JI: It was a little right-to-left outside the cup, about three, four feet.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT