SWINGING SKIRTS LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP
October 21, 2017
Eun-Hee Ji
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Your poise and precision around this golf course is something to be admired.  How pleased are you that you kept under control in this third round?
EUN-HEE JI: I mean, it's nothing special for me, but I'm just trying to do what I did the last two rounds.  And especially it was a hard wind today.  I couldn't focus on the ball but I tried to focus more.
Q. Wonderful back nine.  To have a birdie on 14, the short par 3, that was a very good downhill putt that you made.
EUN-HEE JI: Yeah, I just hit a really nice iron.  I can't read the putt there -- just read it there.
Q. Well, it's tremendous, you were tied for second here in 2015 and you've played every edition of this championship.  How much of an advantage is it, knowing every nook and cranny of this golf course?
EUN-HEE JI: I mean, it's hard to say.  I just tried to do what I needed to do and tried to work on my swing and work with my caddie.  Just work everything and just match up everything this week.
Q. And the swing changes you made from last week -- because you haven't had a Top-10 since June at the Walmart Championship.  Now you're coming into your own and you have a six-shot lead going into the final round.  How much will you be aware of the leaderboards tomorrow when you start playing?
EUN-HEE JI: I mean, I'm not sure.  But I'm six shots leading from the second players, but they are all good players and they will have a chance to catch me up tomorrow I think.  So I'll try to keep moving up and try to focus on my game.
Q. Focus you will, but a lot of players will be wanting to get close.  Will you be aware of what they are doing, or will it be tunnel vision all the way?
EUN-HEE JI: I'm just trying to focus on my target.
Q. And what's your target?  It's been a long time since you last won, 2009 at the U.S. Open.  It's not territory you're familiar with, but it would be amazing.
EUN-HEE JI: Yeah, I'm just trying to do everything, do I my best and talk with my caddie and we're just trying to play safe and just do what I did like today and the last two rounds for tomorrow.
Q. You go into Sunday's final round with a six-stroke lead.  You've got to feel wonderful about the way you're playing right now.  Tell us what has come together for you this week here in Chinese Taipei.
EUN-HEE JI: I like Taipei always.  I play great when I come here.  It's nothing special for today.  I'm just trying what I did the last two rounds.
Q. You've played well here in the past:  In 2015 you tied for second and led after the first two rounds.  Is there something specific about this golf course that seems to suit you?
EUN-HEE JI: I don't like rain but I like wind, to play with the wind.  So I try to challenge with the wind and try to more control my ball.  Yeah, I like that type of play.  That's why I think I play well.
Q. That's certainly helped you the last few days as the wind has been up here.  You go into the final round with a six-stroke lead.  What's your mentality?  What's your game as you go into tomorrow's final round?
EUN-HEE JI: Six-stroke lead but they are all great players behind me.  I think they will catch up six strokes, so I'll try to keep moving on.  I'll just what do I did the first two rounds and just focus on my game.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT