U.S. OPEN
September 1, 1993
Neil Borwick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. When did you have an indication of Ivan and his injury?

NEIL BORWICK:  I had no idea.  I mean, until he said-- until he went up to the umpire's chair I had no idea he was injured.


Q. You must be disappointed that you didn't play the game?

NEIL BORWICK:  It is a little bit.  I mean, I was-- it is a bit disappointing, but a win is a win either way.  I was just sort of excited; get used to the surroundings and that was my first match in the Center Court.  So it is a disappointing way to finish for Ivan too.


Q. How did you feel you were playing?

NEIL BORWICK:  I was serving pretty well.  I wasn't -- the first set, I was holding my serve pretty comfortably.  I wasn't really coming close on his serve, but that started to change a little bit in the second set.  And then I broke him for the set. I mean, it was, you know, it took me a while to sort of get used to the surroundings and everything, and the nerves as well as a little bit towards the start, but I was starting to enjoy it towards the end.  Starting to play a bit better.


Q. Did he say anything to you, Neil, when -- did he say anything to you personally?

NEIL BORWICK:  When he--


Q. Retired.

NEIL BORWICK:  He just said-- he just told me it was his knee and he wished me luck.  That was it.


Q. During the game did you think there was some problem with Lendl?

NEIL BORWICK:  Well, I couldn't really notice anything, really.  I mean, just didn't enter my head at all.  Sometimes when you are playing a guy you can tell, you know, that is difficult for you because if you think that he is injured, you have got to deal with that.  But I have no idea.  I didn't think that at all.  So --


Q. Had you looked past this match?

NEIL BORWICK:  Not at all.  No.  I mean, I was happy to get through the qualifier on the weekend and then to come up against Ivan was not one of the better draws, but I was playing well in the qualies, so I knew I had a good chance, but I think I played Larsson now, so that is also one --


Q. At that stage of the match did you think you might win it?

NEIL BORWICK:  What stage?


Q. When it finished.

NEIL BORWICK:  Well, yeah.  I mean, I was up a break and I was confident then.  Definitely.


Q. You made him work pretty hard saving off those breakpoints?

NEIL BORWICK:  Yeah, when I broke him the first game -- when I broke him for the second set, that first game of the third, I was down a couple of breakpoints.  I knew I had to get that game.  It has happened to me a few times before with guys who have won that set and then my concentration is altered a bit.  But I hung on to that game which was a big game for me, the first game of the third.


Q. Have you played a lot of players of Lendl's stature?

NEIL BORWICK:  I have played Sampras at Wimbledon this year, and that was a big match for me.  I didn't play too bad.  I played a few other guys.


Q. How did you find the heat and the humidity?

NEIL BORWICK:  It didn't really affect me.  I mean, it was a lot harder on Saturday when we played our last round of qualies, the humidity was a lot more.  Growing up here and Australia where I am from, I am used to it.  I like these conditions. I handle it pretty well.  It doesn't worry me at all.  Just sweating all the time.  That is about it.


Q. Neil, when you saw the draw, did you think, oh, why, again Sampras at Wimbledon, Lendl at the Open?

NEIL BORWICK:  A little bit.  Yeah, I did.  Pretty unlucky.  But I mean, it is the best time to play those guys.  Everyone knows, the first match of these tournaments, it is the best opportunity to knock them off.  So you got to look at it that way.


Q. Now that five seeds have fallen by the way side, how do you look at the tournament, more wide open?

NEIL BORWICK:  I haven't really looked at it.  It is pretty wide open, yeah, at the moment, but I mean, it is the early stages.  I haven't really thought about it, really.


Q. Thank you.      


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT