ING NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
November 2, 2011
Jen Rhines
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. We've been seeing that Meb wanted to come in late. What is your thought about that? 
 JEN RHINES: I'm a little bit different. I'm not quite as strong at altitude as I would say Meb and Deena. I've really improved a lot over the past ten years, but I feel like I need two weeks to be down at sea level to make sure I'm ready to go for the race on Sunday.

 Q. Even though it sort of sounds like it would be during the taper phase, do you want to get in some fairly fast stuff down there in the shorter term? 
 JEN RHINES: It's not actually that difficult to run in the higher elevations, but it's more readapting to sea level. Like sometimes I feel a little off for like five to seven days when I come down. 
 So it's not about coming down and running super fast. It's just making sure to be adaptive.

 Q. So you did your track season. When would you say the actual marathon training phase is considered to end? 
 JEN RHINES: Basically the week after I ran the 10K, but I also was really consistent for the year. Like I put in a lot of hundred mile weeks back in January. So I felt like I had that base behind me.

 Q. It's been six years. Why are you running New York again? 
 JEN RHINES: I just feel strong enough to run the marathon again. For a few years I had difficulty with long runs, and it didn't give me any indication that I'd be ready to race 26 miles. But I've just been building strength over the year, and just I feel like it's the right time.

 Q. What about this particular race? What is special about it? 
 JEN RHINES: I love running in New York. It's such an exciting marathon. I like running because I think the city has such great energy. It was perfect timing. And also, I like -- I'm a good racer, even though New York doesn't have pacers, it's about competing as opposed to running out.

 Q. Since you are consistent through the years, what are the big changes when you say you're in a marathon phase? Your longer runs are probably longer. What are your longest runs? 
 JEN RHINES: I did one 21-mile run last winter, but they were mostly right around 18.

 Q. So now during this phase, you're thinking 20? 
 JEN RHINES: Consistently 20. Since there were only eight weeks, I feel like we crammed a lot into a short amount of time.

 Q. How does that 2:29 PR sound to you and do you think it can go by the board this is week? 
 JEN RHINES: I definitely think it's possible that I can run a PR this Sunday. When I think of my PR and the marathon, in my mind it's a lot weaker than my 5K and 10K and I think I'm capable of running that.

 Q. Which might be 2:26 or something? 
 JEN RHINES: Yeah, I think 2:26 or 2:27 on this course is possible.

 Q. I know that we did talk to you about this a while back, but are you pretty determined unless you do something really extraordinary in this race, that you'll probably not be in Houston again? 
 JEN RHINES: Yeah, my focus would be on the 10K and 5K, we've left the door open that if it's a phenomenal race here, I'm sure Terrence and I would have a conversation about running the trials. But right now I'm planning on running the 5 and 10.

 Q. It's sort of different than the route a lot of people take when they're over 35. Usually to be heading more into the marathon rather than going back to the track. But are you convinced that in the 10,000, 5,000 that you are maintaining the speed you have, or does the strength of those events become more? 
 JEN RHINES: I think I'm maintaining the speed. And I think having been so consistent for the past year it's really going to help me on the streets. Like I don't really think it has to be limited by age. 
 I don't feel that I'm still able to put in the work and do the speed work as well, so I feel like I can kind of, like you said, go against the curve and be running PRs.

 Q. Do you chalk that up to health maybe? 
 JEN RHINES: I think, yeah, just being consistent and healthy over the years as well. And having like Terrence as my coach, he's always looking at things to improve and changing things and tweaking things. 
 So I think we're still figuring -- basically, we're still figuring things out, things that I can improve.

 Q. What would be something that has to be tweaked this past year? 
 JEN RHINES: Like my running mechanics have been tweaked. I was mentioning like I used to do a lot of mileage especially with downhills, and that was something that I felt like I was going to have to work on going into this marathon. 
 But I never had one problem running up in the mountains or competing like that. So I feel like it's definitely now I'm more efficient and that's going to carry over. That was my main concern in this race because that's what I had difficulties with the last two times I ran, but I really feel it's not going to be an issue.

 Q. Was it wasted movement? 
 JEN RHINES: Basically I used to overuse my quads and not use my hamstrings and glutes, so we've been able to kind of activate the hamstrings so I'm not just beating up my quads all the time.

 Q. So you were afraid that during the race itself because of the hills that your quads would be --
 JEN RHINES: Basically it would take its toll, and by the time I got to mile 20, there would be nothing left. Now I feel like I'm beyond that. That's not going to be an issue.

 Q. Is this second nature to you? You don't have to think about it, the form? 
 JEN RHINES: Yeah. I think when you're trying to change something, it's difficult because you do -- as a distance runner, it's difficult because you're used to just kind of doing so many miles and thinking about how you're running. You have to focus on it changing. 

 Q. But now it's not? 
 JEN RHINES: Not exactly. But I was able to do a couple of long runs. But none that were as consistently on the same page.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT