ING NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
November 6, 2005
Abdi Abdirahman
Jen Rhines
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  I guess you decided there was a first group and there was a second group with about 50 seconds behind already, what was your feeling, were you expecting that you might be able to accelerate and pick up? 

JEN RHINES:   Yeah, my plan was to run a negative split, but I just didn't have a good day.  I never felt good out there, and I tried to switch paces and get into a rhythm that I was comfortable with, and it just didn't work out.  It was just the marathon got the best of me today.

Q.  For a while you were in the same group as Jelena. 

JEN RHINES:   Yes, I was running with them for a while.  Because we started a little slow up the bridge, we were running a hair quicker than I wanted to run, so I backed off and never got back into the rhythm I was trying to find. 

Q.  Do you have any thoughts on why? 

JEN RHINES:   Right now I'm not really sure because I had a good preparation and like I said, I think for some reason, I don't know why, the marathon just got the best of me today. 

Q.  Abdi, this is a good pr for you?

ABDI ABDIRAHMAN:  It's a good pr for me.  I'm happy to run 2:11:20 something, it's better than my pr before, but I was hoping to run under 2:10 because I kind of lost momentum, coming down First Avenue, my plan was just to maintain it, because we make like -- because the Italian guy make a big move at the 15-mile mark, he started to sprint up the hill and when we all sprint up the hill, when we were running as a group, and Ramaala made a big move, he put like a 4:21 mile.  I backed off from that one because I didn't want to kill myself.  Meb went with him and that's when I couldn't close the gap.  I tried but I didn't have any help so I just run solo the last six miles and I run pretty strong.  I feel pretty good. 

Q.  Were you alone the last six?

ABDI ABDIRAHMAN:  Yes, I was alone, yeah. 

Q.  How was the heat, did it bother you?

ABDI ABDIRAHMAN:  The heat didn't bother me at all.  It was one of those days, I feel good.  My training was going so well.  I'm from Tucson, Arizona so I get used to heat but the humidity a little bit bothered me.  But it's not something that you make excuses.  It didn't affect my performances and it didn't affect other people's performances.  Meb run well, Tergat run well, so I thought the heat wasn't affecting anyone.

Q.  Did the weather affect you at all Jen? 

JEN RHINES:   I didn't feel like it did.  I didn't feel like I was overheated or not or getting overly dehydrated. 

Q.  Abdi, you had a great year this year, on the track, marathon pr, going forward, are you going to continue trying to do everything?

ABDI ABDIRAHMAN:  You know, I'm still young in the marathon.  This only is my second marathon.  Hopefully I'm coming back to New York next year and improve my pr and that's my main goal.  Marathon, it takes you a long time until you get the pr.  I'm just going to take it step by step.  I'm going to keep running track, keep running the 10,000, start shorter distance and hopefully I'll move to marathon permanently after the 2008 Olympics hopefully. 

Q.  Jen, did you run most of the race by yourself? 

JEN RHINES:  I did end up running most of the race by myself.  But it was by choice, because I didn't feel comfortable with the pace the pack I was running with, so I was trying to get my rhythm back and I was by myself from there on in. 

Q.  What's going through your head when you're running by yourself? 

JEN RHINES:   Well, I was trying to stay really positive because I was a little off of the pace I wanted for the first half.  But actually, did I work with Marie Davenport for a little while, and then I fell back behind her by a little bit.  But I was trying to stay positive and I was trying to surge coming off the bridge to get back on pace, and just trying not to let the race go, so I did the best I could to finish as well as I could.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT