LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS MEDIA CONFERENCE
July 13, 2020
Rodney McGruder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Rodney, curious, we asked Kawhi about Black Lives Matter and his reaction to that, whether he'll wear anything on the back of his jersey as a statement.  Have you chosen anything to wear on your back, and what is your hope to use your platform during this time?
RODNEY McGRUDER:   I've chosen to go with "peace," and that's one thing we've always spoken for in our country is world peace, so that's one thing I'm going to use to make my statement during the restart.
Q. I guess I just wanted to see how practice has been going.  What's it like there?  What's the weirdest, hardest part of practicing inside a bubble?
RODNEY McGRUDER:   It hasn't been weird at all.  It's been very interesting.  You're seeing a lot of guys that you played against on a nightly basis when the season is in session, but it's been fun.  It's been fun being back with the group of guys, competing and getting out there with one another and just making each other better.  There's nothing like competing.  That's one aspect of the game that's been missing.  We've been able to practice in the practice facility for like a month and a half now, but just being out here in practice and having Doc around, it's been big time, having T-Lue, Sam, Armond, it's been a lot of fun.  It has been.
Q. Can I ask about practicing in the space that you're practicing, the ballroom?  Is that strange?
RODNEY McGRUDER:   It's not really strange, though, because I've actually practiced in ballrooms before in other training camps and stuff like that, so it wasn't really that strange for me.  But it's a nice hotel, nice living.  You really can't complain about anything.  The bubble has been -- it's unique, but it's been pretty exciting, though, for us, just to be together and build something right now.
Q. I wanted to ask you what have you been doing during this time at home preparing yourself?  I know you're such a student of the game and you enjoy taking care of your body.  What are some of the aspects that you actually kind of worked on personally at your home?
RODNEY McGRUDER:   Actually I've watched a lot of film of myself and a lot of other guys in the league just studying them and studying their habits and traits.  Also been able to have some equipment for Zoom workouts and stuff like that, so I've really been utilizing that and just working on my body day in and day out so when I get back, no knickknack injuries or anything like that.  So really just doing the fine tuning of the body and really focusing on knocking the jump shot down.
Q. I just want to get your insight on the level of confidence with the NBA's bubble.  We've already seen positive cases.  Especially in Florida it's surging right now.  We've seen a couple cases inside the bubble already.  I just wanted to get your level of confidence on this bubble moving forward.
RODNEY McGRUDER:   I'm very confident in it.  We test every day.  We check our fevers every day.  Just different aspects that -- try to catch it before anyone else, before the virus can spread inside the bubble.  The NBA has done a tremendous job of putting us together so we can be as safe as possible, but things like that are going to occur, guys catching the virus possibly, but I'm pretty sure the NBA is going to be right on it and take care of whatever needs to be done.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT