UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 3, 2005
Charlie Weis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
COACH WEIS: I thought that that was a pretty good effort by our team on Saturday night.  I thought that all across the board, all three phases -  special teams, defense and offense, I thought that the effort, the focus was probably the best we've had so far.  As it relates to the special teams, first of all, I mean we had three tackles on the kickoff team inside the 20-yard line, which lifted my spirits, obviously that one kickoff return where they -- we kind of wanted an angular kick and it just didn't work out that way.  We got a lot of field position out of it, but for the most part, there were three kickoffs, tackles inside the 20, David Bruton I thought, for a freshman, stepped up and made some outstanding plays.  He was involved in all those tackles.  That one kickoff return was for 65 yards. Trevor Wallace blocked that field goal.  I thought that was another critical play in the game.  And Marcus Freeman I thought was another guy who really stood out, blocking and being involved in tackles.  Some guys you don't hear about all the time on special teams and our special teams captain, even though he doesn't know this yet, so I'd appreciate you letting me tell him, but for this one will be Trevor Laws for that blocked field goal that he had.  He will be our third captain for our game next week.  On defense, I think one of critical factors in the game  -- we'll talk about the turnovers here in a second, but I think the first thing we did was we controlled their inside running game and I think that when you are playing against a team that now can run the ball inside, now turns into havoc, run the option outside or throw the ball, it took away one dimension of how they like to play and I think we were better for it.  I think we made some critical plays in the game, obviously starting with Ambrose running them down on the one-yard line, knocking them out, and once again defense coming up and making a play.  I think their confidence is to the point where people get down there they just don't assume it is going to be an automatic touchdown.  They assume they are going to stop them and turn the ball over because they have done it more than once, starting to have some confidence doing it. Obviously that was a critical play.  I thought another critical play was Lenox interception right after our interception.  I think any time you have a sudden change, you know, where now they are in a scoring zone and you follow that up with an interception of your own on the very next play, I thought that was obviously a big play by us.  And two times that they went for it on fourth down that we stopped them as well.  As a matter of fact, I thought both the corners, both Ambrose and Mike I thought really stepped up in this game and had big games. We did have a couple of negative plays; not as many as we have been having, but we did have the option that got down there and we did lose contain on the one quarterback scramble.  And when you really go back and research the game, when the first guys were in there, when the ones were in there, there's still too many big plays given up.  We gave up 10 plays that were -- that netted just over 300 yards for the games, so that ends up being 30 yards a pop.  But I think that we didn't have -- we had one offside penalty and they did call three PI/holding calls on our corners.  They weren't all accepted, but they did call them all so that's one thing that we're going to have to continue working on; not getting those plays that would be automatic first downs if there weren't a completion.  I think if you look at how the first half was played that's really how we'd like to play some football.  Take it to them, make some big plays of your own, not -- take away their inside running game.  I think overall, that first half, when you walk out pitching a shutout, that was a good thing.  Now the coaching staff obviously would have liked to continue that -- continue that effort through the second half, but I think that overall I am generally pleased with a lot of positive signs that came out of that game.  Offensively I thought that the biggest statement of the game was made on that 99-yard touchdown drive after we turned the ball over.  I think we can talk about a lot of positives in the game which I will mention some of, but I think that any time you get the ball in your own one-yard line you take it right down the field and score a touchdown, you didn't just change field position, you went on a 99-yard drive and it wasn't just one play.  I think that for the most part we handled the blitz zones very well and it wasn't just blitz zones, it was all out blitzes too.  It wasn't just zone blitzes.  They didn't have any sacks in the game and obviously had been on the offensive linemen pretty hard last week after last year's game.  I think Brady only got touched a couple of sometimes.  I thought the pad protection was a lot better than the run blocking.  Got in the red zone five times; came up with five touchdowns so that's always a good thing.  Converted just under two out of three on third downs for the game.  That's a pretty good thing.  We had 21 -- I talk about big plays.  We had 21 of them ourselves, 21 plays that we -- either runs or passes for -- runs for over 10 yards or passes for over 20 yards.  I think we had a number of big plays ourselves. We did have the one holding call on Maurice but I liked his aggressiveness even though I didn't like to get that call on that big run.  In addition, I mean, Mo saved a touchdown on the interception and made a bunch of plays.  He and Jeff obviously all night long were making plays.  You can throw Matt in the ringer too because he had big conversions on third down.  I thought the receivers really stepped up and played a good game.  I thought we got a lot of outstanding performances.  I can single out a lot of people.  I can talk about the tightends being solid.  I can talk about Dan Stephenson, Ryan Harris I thought really stepped up, you know, on the offensive line.  I think that I would be remiss if I didn't talk about the performance of the quarterback because I thought he was outstanding, and I don't say that very often.  I don't use that word very often.  I hope I am using it more often but I thought he was just exceptional, the way he managed the game and I thought he played very well.  
 
Q.  Can you talk about Travis Thomas coming in there late and running hard?
 
COACH WEIS: Every time he plays he runs hard.  That's the way he plays.  He's a hammer type of guy.  He's a very physical, stout, you know, player and he plays that way as a runner and he plays that way on special teams.  I have lot of confidence in Travis.  I'd use him at any time.  I think that -- I think our running back situation which coming into the season everyone says, oh, what are you going to do if Darius isn't there, I think, you know, throw Rashon in there and Travis in there I that we have a very good situation head-to-head at that position. 
 
Q.  You were able to get a lot of guys in the game late.  Talk about that and also did anybody jump out at you?
 
COACH WEIS: First of all, Travis was in there with those guys to start off with the four.  Jeff took over for him.  Justin got a couple of snaps there at the end.  I think that the happiest thing -- rather than talk about any individual -- I was just happy that that group scored.  They got in there and obviously David threw that ball up to Rob Woods, got it down there and then Travis hit that inside run taking it to the house.  I was just happy when your second guys get in there; especially because there's still a lot of time left in this game, it was most of the fourth quarter and I was just happy that they got an opportunity to get some action.  And then also on the other side of the ball we had those defensive guys have been playing a lot of plays and being able to get a whole second group in there and getting some reps.  I'd prefer not to single out anyone other than the fact I was just happy that we got guys on both sides of the ball some useful playing time.  
 
Q.  You mentioned the big plays by your defense this year, the (inaudible) turnovers also they had a pretty good third down percentage defense.  Where do you see this defense getting better, what would you like to see get better?
 
COACH WEIS: I think that as you start to understand, you know, I think it comes down to just not the players, it comes down with coaches and the players -  when you start to understand what your guys can do and can do well; I think that -- I think now our coaching staff and our players are more every week getting to know each other better and getting on the same page where now you narrow it down to here's what we do well and just do that.  I think that schematically things are starting to fall into place where I think we're at the point now where we're expecting to see progress each week.  This is no longer an evolving defense.  I think that -- I think the players know what -- I think the coaches have done a good job putting in position and I think now because they are not thinking as much   - see, sometimes when you think too much it is not a good thing.  Sometimes when you can't just go out there and play because you are spending too much time thinking, then you are not -- you know, it inhibits you some.  I think we're finally starting to turn that corner and I am hoping that that leads to continued improvement.  
 
Q.  There was a quote apparently attributed to you by Purdue about the days of losing Pittsburgh and Purdues are over.  Do you know where that came from?
 
COACH WEIS: Didn't come from me.  I would never disrespect an opponent of ours in anyway.  So that would never come out of my mouth; that, I can promise you. 
 
Q.  Comment on TV also was made that everybody has played zone against you except Purdue.  How accurate is that and what do you -- what kind of coverages are people predominantly playing against your offense?
 
COACH WEIS: You get  -- see, there's two different types of blitz zones, for example.  Okay, all depends on whether or not you are dropping defensive linemen or not.  When you do, usually it's a true zone that people play.  Okay, when you don't drop defensive linemen and it's actually called a blitz zone matchup; where now they play more of a man technique in what they are doing.   I think for the most part, most coaches I have seen, okay, when they are bringing multiple blitzers really are playing more zone than they play man.  But there's been plenty of opportunities for us to have to go against bump press guys.  I think that's --sound -- depends on the personality of their defense coordinator. 
 
Q.  You outscored your opponents 75 to 19 in the second quarter.  How do you account for that?
 
COACH WEIS: I think once we get a feel for the game, you know, we have always talked about openers and being able to react to what they are doing and not wait until halftime and I think that that's really where that comes into play where now you can kinds of see where this game is heading and then you go ahead and adjust accordingly.  
 
Q.  When you look at Brady's performance and you grade how he did, it seems every time they blitzed he made the correct read, and are you surprised how quickly he's picked up the offense and been able to make those quick reads?
 
COACH WEIS: I think that I am pleased more than surprised.  I think that I am pleased that that's come along that way.  I mean, Brady is a very smart, intuitive player.  So I mean surprise would really indicate that you really didn't believe that he could do it.  I am just pleased that he's come along this fast. 
 
Q.  Travis Thomas, he's performing pretty well last couple of games.  Will he be getting more playing time with his performance this week?
 
COACH WEIS: I don't believe in running back by committee.  I think that you have a main stay at running back and then you supplement and that's the plan.  Darius is our starting running back and between Rashon and Travis he'll pick up the rest of the snaps. 
 
Q.  First third of the season behind you, what are a couple more pleasing things that you have had a chance to reflect on?
 
COACH WEIS: My whole party line walking in the door, you know, was a mentality that I wanted the team to take and I'd say more than anything else the team has taken that mentality.  And I think that that pleases me more than anything.  That pleases me as much as wins and losses; that your team is going out there, playing hard, expecting to win every time you go on the field.  Okay, they are playing smart, you don't make very mental mistakes.  That doesn't mean we're perfect.  But the things that   -- I think when teams are playing hard for the whole game and they are tough, okay, then you always have a chance. 
 
Q.  Unrelated question.  What do you say to the -- your receiving core is playing pretty darn well.  Why not say, hey, Raymond McKnight, get better, see you next year, save your eligibility and graduation  -- (inaudible) --
 
COACH WEIS: I think that every matter with every player is more of a private matter.  I think that -- I can't worry about agendas.  I can't worry about personal agendas.  All I am worried about is getting the team ready to play each week.  If Raymond can get back and help us win, that's what we want to do.  We will worry about next year, next year.  
 
Q.  What approach do you take this week in the bi-week?  Is it a bunch of different things?
 
COACH WEIS: We have got three things going on so I will give you them to you. First of all, from the guys who play most of the snaps, I want this to be more of a week to heal their bumps and bruises.  Now, that means that you put pressure on them mentally but you don't put any pressure on them physically.  You put as little physical pressure on them as you can.  That's the way the practices will be when we practice this week on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday. For the guys that are like that the second team guys that, you know, are waiting in the wings to play, we're going to give them a whole heck of a lot of snaps because this gives us an opportunity to give them a bunch of reps at what we do all the time to get them ready to go.  From the coaching staff perspective we have two things going on.  We're going to spend a great, great deal of time on UFC, we're working on them today, tomorrow, and the next day.  Then Wednesday night seven of them are hopping on a plane and flying out there because two of the six guys we are using for recruiting are going to be Thursday and Friday of this week.  So seven of our staff members will be on the road recruiting on Thursday and Friday.  So we'll have a skeleton screw in here that Thursday's practice.  
 
Q.  Did you expect this much improvement from the offense, from last year to this year; is that a surprise?
 
COACH WEIS: I wasn't here last year so I am just worrying about us getting better and sometimes you get favorable matchups with teams you go against, things just work out.  We got a bunch of formidable opponents on the schedule yet and I don't think you can live too much on your press clippings.  I think you have got to worry about each week one week at a time.  Once again, I will go back not to counter the surprise, but I am pleased with how it's going so far. 
 
Q.  (Inaudible)--
 
COACH WEIS: Only thing I worry about are points.  I am not talking about 49 points.  I am talking about enough points to win.  That's the way I look at it.  You will never see me with a run-up-a-score mentality.  That's not in me.  I always -- as a matter of fact I am looking to get other guys involved in the game because I'd rather start getting guys, you know, reps that eventually are going to have to play, so you will never have to worry about us  getting in one of those games where the scores are outlandish.  I am more into scoring enough points to win.  That's the No. 1 thing I worry about.  
 
Q.  Early on someone asked you about your (inaudible) tag, the offensive guru, and you laughed at that.  Do you not think you are pretty darn good at it?
 
COACH WEIS: I think I am pretty good, but I think there's plenty of people that are good.  I think that I do have one advantage over a lot of people the fact that from where I have come I have seen a lot of things and I think that you build up a reservoir of how to handle the things you are going to go against.  So as you're sitting here watching things you say, well, yeah, I remember we did this in 1994, we did this in '96.  That reminds me of the game in '98.  So when you have a reservoir it isn't all original notes but to everyone you are going against it is original because they have never seen it.  So I think that one thing I do have is that I have a very good memory.  And I am talking about when it comes to what happened in different games and how -- what we have done to, both pro and con, so I think that that's the one advantage I have is that reservoir of experience of things that happened over my 15 years in the NFL.  
 
Q.  Your experience of being a teacher, how does that make you a better coach?
 
COACH WEIS: I think that too many people too many times people look at sports and almost say that dumb jock stereotype that when we all were growing up but I think it's become so much more of an intellectual game now that much of the approach in the preparation to these games is intellectual.  It's not just physical.  It's not just "let's go pound them."  You know, there's a big mental approach.  I think that you know, that can be a definite weapon to be able to use your brain could be a definite weapon.  And I think that's where teaching comes into play.  
 
Q.  Giving up big plays, 10 plays from 300 yards.  What is a number you can live with there in terms of big plays given up?
 
COACH WEIS: You are trying to get none.  That's what you are -- you are trying to get no runs for 10 yards; trying to get no passes for 20 yards.  It's not what you can live with, it's what you are shooting for.  I think that's what everyone is shooting for.  I don't know how realistic that is.  But that's what you are shooting for.  To give them a 4-yard gain is different than you give them an 11-yard gain because an 11-yard gain is a first down. So I am saying what you are shooting for and what is realistic are two different things.  
 
Q.  After the game a lot of the offensive players talked about how they felt, like if they just did their job nights like Saturday should be common place.  Does that border on overconfident; do you like that attitude?
 
COACH WEIS: No, as a matter of fact I learned that one from Bill Belichick because his number one phrase all the time was just do your job.  What happens is when you start trying to do somebody else's job, okay, and not just do your job, there's chances for individual breakdowns.  I think that once you get everyone doing their job in sync you got a chance for success.  
 
Q.  The run-off for the next couple of times do you want the players to enjoy this moment or do you kind of go back to just treat this like any other game?
 
COACH WEIS: When I had them in here today this is like Sunday to them.  We'll talk specifically about Purdue today and then a little victory dinner later on and then we will get back to work.  But this week's work is basically going to be fundamentals and techniques to try to get better at that.  We're spending extra time getting ready for our next opponent. 
 
Q.  Talk about what Peter Vaas has contributed to Brady's development?
 
COACH WEIS: First of all, it's really helped me personally because it's allowed me to be able to watch different things in practice that I used to have to watch.  It's totally different when you have to worry about coaching a quarterback and either being a head coach or being a play-caller because there's so many other places your eyes have to be.  I have total confidence that Brady is being coached by an upper level person and that -- it frees me up from having to worry about what is he going to do if I am not there.  
 
Q.  Defensive line had no sacks.  How much of that is attributable to the three step drop; how much is it having to contain the option and then how much is disappointment (inaudible)--
 
COACH WEIS: I wouldn't be disappointed because second half they basically -- that's all they did was three step drops.  So that -- you are not counting on sacks on three step drops.  That was their whole mentality; which is a little different from what they have done. If you've watched Purdue so far this year you noticed in the second half they went to a personnel group of four wide which they'd only used nine snaps the entire year of four wide with one back in there because by blitzing we scared them out of empty.  They got out of that.  But then they went into a four wide, two-by-two, formation, three step drops, and they had some success doing it.  It was really something they really hadn't done all year, but they hadn't been in a situation where they are down four scores all year either.  So they are going to make some plays when that ends up happening but three step drop, they had no sacks either, as you recall, so this was a sackless game then.  Didn't bother me too much.  
 
Q.  You talk about the ability to see Rashon improve week after week.  You seem to mention things picking up blitz zones, they get better and better.  (Inaudible) --
 
COACH WEIS: A couple of you talked about earlier, I think as your system start to come into play and people get more comfortable with your system and have a better understanding of what the system is, usually the mental errors increase exponentially.  When you are first going in, you are calling plays and everyone is kind of -- they kind of know what to do but until you have got out there and experienced them it is a little different.  
 
Q.  People seem to be making a big deal about you having an extra week to prepare for UFC.  How much more prepared can you get a team in --
 
COACH WEIS: Exponentially.  By the way, no one's made a big deal of me calling timeout for this first incomplete pass.  Let's throw me a bone here now.  Well, I told you I have been waiting for one of you guys to bring it up.  I am waiting for one bone from one of you guys.  I was feeling pretty good about that I have to tell you.  I looked over at my kid, he kind of gave me a little high five.  I said that will whet them up, Charlie.  (Laughs). 
 
Q.  Seen some video of the Patriots' game yesterday. One Brady's gain is another Brady's loss?
 
COACH WEIS: I watched it.  It was 17 to 17 at halftime.  So fortunately I didn't get to watch the whole second half because I was making some recruiting calls at the time.  But I mean 17 to 17 in the half, kind of snowballed and it went bad, that usually means they will play extra better this week, it's usually their MO. 
 
Q.  You said exponentially this open week helps you.  I take it you like the open weeks in college now?
 
COACH WEIS: Well, there's pros and cons.  As far as game planning I like it because I have -- by this time I have already watched a bunch of Southern Cal tape and this is two weeks before we played them.  I am going to have to watch a whole bunch of more, but the good thing is before we get through the middle of this week I will have watched everything I have needed to watch.  Now the question is whether or not you can come up with enough good stuff to, you know, that's  -- finding what they do isn't as big a problem as finding what you are going to do against them.  That's the bigger problem.  
 
Q.  We haven't heard a lot of critiquing from your son.  Has he kind of laid off that?
 
COACH WEIS: Well, I will tell you what, the one good thing and I will tell you, he's on me pretty good still, but at about the 11-minute mark in the game he said, let's run the ball and get out of here, daddy.  (Laughs).  I said to him Charlie, I am trying.  I am trying.  How long did that game go?  I mean, in real time, how long was this game?  I don't know but it seemed like an eternity.  Had to be over  -- 
 
Q.  Seven beers.
 
COACH WEIS: Yeah.  
 
Q.  What is it like having Charlie there at a high stress time?  Having a kid at work at a high stress time could be difficult, what is it like having him there?
 
COACH WEIS: It's easy when you are winning.  Remember now, he sat there and watched us lose to Michigan State and watched them stick that flag in the middle of the 50-yard line.  It's easy when you are a coach's son when you win, you are going to school and you don't have to worry about it.  But when you lose, maybe it is a lot harder on them than it is on us.  You don't even realize it.  Because everyone is hey, what happened at school.  Like he had something to do with us winning or losing, what happened.  So I think that when he wins, he enjoys it more than I do when we win and when we lose, he probably hates it more than I do.  
 
Q.  What is it like having him there? (Inaudible) --
 
COACH WEIS: I talk to him like everyone else just say (laughter) if I would like for him to get out of the way, in my normal vernacular I will tell him to get out of the way (laughter). 
 
Q.  Reason why you end up on offense is because of that job opportunity years and years ago. Defense, (inaudible) could you be equally successful on the opposite side of the ball?
 
COACH WEIS: I'd like to think so mainly because I mean when you are coming in under Parcels, Bellichek, Grenell (phonetic), Crenel and those guys right there who I think are all are front-line defensive coaches, you'd like to think that that's where I would have gone, but I think because of those guys now you flip over to the other side, because of what you learned from them about defense, that gives you a little bit better understanding when you are calling offense what the defensive guys are thinking.  
 
Q.  Do you feel like there's been significant progress in the last two, three weeks maybe some individuals who really like gotten it?
 
COACH WEIS: I think that what's happened rather than just isolate specific individuals, I think that the coaching has sunk in to now that they are starting to establish a personality and you will see a lot of the mistakes that were made earlier in the year you don't see showing up again.  That's a good thing because it means like okay, I saw it, that happened, and now they don't happen as much.  I think we're getting some solid performances out of a number of people.  I will give you an example: Derek Landri is a guy you don't even notice out there, he's all over the field.  He's spent at the end of the game now because he's all over the field.  I am just using as an example  of a guy like that where you will see Zbikowski or Hoyte, you will see those guys because they are involved in all the running sideline to sideline type of plays, but you won't see those sluggers in there that all of a sudden there's no inside run.  Well, it's not by coincidence.  Somebody is making those plays and somebody is reeking some havoc in there or else they would be able to run the ball inside and it's not just the middle linebacker making every play, it means those inside interior defensive linemen have to be making some plays too.  So it all kind of fits together.  
 
Q.  Another point I want to make was about the conditioning of this team.  (Inaudible)?
 
COACH WEIS: First of all, obviously Rubin did a great job of getting these guys ready to go starting all the way back in February when he got hired right through the summertime so Rubin and his entire staff deserve some kudos for that.  But in addition this game we got to yank these guys in the fourth quarter, which you know, we talk about all those extra plays in the fourth quarter, most of them weren't playing in there.  So that's -- sign me up every week if we can get into that situation.  
 
Q.  (Inaudible) --
 
COACH WEIS: As long as the system is the same, okay, you definitely watch all of last year's game.  So even though their offensive coordinator left, the system is still the same.  And Pete's the defense coordinator so that didn't change.  So when you are watching both sides of the ball, as long as the system stay the same there's a lot of value in watching the previous year and then you always watch your own team play against them for personnel matchups to see how those went based on who was there.  Then when you get to the new stuff the new year you try to see what they are tweaking from -- to what they were doing the previous years to now because obviously they thought that there were areas of concern that they changed so you try to adapt to what they are doing, but there's definitely in this case both offensively and defensively, a lot of carryover from the previous year. 
 
Q.  (Inaudible) are you always in the back of your head about last year that maybe they have not taken out of the box --
 
COACH WEIS: There's no doubt that you do that because there's a lot of things that people will say they might not have done it for 10 games and all of a sudden it shows up.  You want to try to be as surprised as little as you possibly can.  
 
Q.  Matt Shelton, he had a big impact on Saturday night.  Is he finally starting to get back to full strength after being injured?
 
COACH WEIS: I think when you are coming off a knee like he was coming off of I think sometimes there's two things that come into play.  One is getting healthy and other one is having confidence that your healthy.  I think that those things both come into play for Matt.  
 
Q.  Characterize the job that Rick Minter has done this year so far?
 
COACH WEIS: I think what -- Rick is obviously an experienced defensive coach that allows me to spend more time with offense without having to worry about whether the defensive guys are being well coached or not.  I think having an experienced guy that's an ex head coach that knows how to run a team really takes a heavy burden off my shoulders and I know -- I have total confidence that the guys always know what to do when they are being well coached.  
 
Q.  (Inaudible)?
 
COACH WEIS: I think that having somebody --  see, a lot of times when head coaches hire staff they want to hire  -- they want to be the man, you know, and I think in my case, I want to surround myself with as many guys as I could that have lived the experience of running the show so that I'd have resources to turn to for anything that I wanted to ask.  
 
Q.  General summary question.  Five games in, how would you asses your own performance?
 
COACH WEIS: I'd say I have been improving as well.  I think I kind of go along with the team.  I think that as you start settling into the things that you have to do as a head coach I think some of them I have done well and some of them I haven't done so well.  But I think that some of the basic principles  of what we're trying to get done I think we are doing.  I think the team is acting properly and I think they try hard.  I think they know what to do.  Now my job and my coaching staff's job is to get them to do it better.  I think that's --  right now, I'd grade myself an incomplete.  
 
Q.  If you had one play or one sequence to get back this season, which would it be?
 
COACH WEIS: Oh, obviously we lost the Michigan State game so I could think of -- three things come to mind right off the bat.  Obviously we throw the interception for a touchdown.  We fumble the ball on the one-yard line and we get the ball turned over to us at the end of the Michigan State game with an opportunity to win it in regulation.  I'd take any of those situations again right now if you want to give them to me.  
 
Q.  Late in the first half versus Michigan State you got the ball back, the game was still tied.  I think there was a pass to Pisano for 24 yards.  (Inaudible)?
 
COACH WEIS: We threw the ball at Pisano on the first play down the middle of the field, but the -- I think that was where -- didn't -- wasn't that where we got the penalty on the play?  I just remember that I thought that we could have done a better job of clock management with as high powered an offense as Michigan State was not give them the ball back.  The only problem with that is if you play scared with a team that when you think that you can move the ball on them pretty well too, if you play scared then you are missing an opportunity to try to score yourself.  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT