PENN STATE UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 10, 2009
Charlie Weis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


   THE MODERATOR: Coach will start with some opening comments then we'll go to questions.   
 COACH WEIS: All right. Good afternoon. On to Pittsburgh Saturday night. They're 5-0 at home this year. 8-1 overall. They've done a really good job by winning every quarter they played, which is different than most opponents. They've won out in every corner.   
 Dave's done a nice job his fifth year there. He brought in Frank Cignetti to take over as the coordinator, his first year here at Pitt. They got the offense rolling pretty good now.   
 They've got it going both the run game and pass game. Last week was a perfect microcosm of their year. They had 247 yards rushing and 234 yards passing. For the year they're averaging just under 35 points a game. They've rushed for 18 touchdowns and passed for 19 touchdowns.   
 In the red zone they're doing a nice job. They're scoring two out of three times. They get touchdowns when they get down to the red zone. One of the reasons for that is Bill Stull. He's really done a nice job. He's a fifth-year guy. But he's really done a nice job of managing their team. And his passing efficiency is very, very good. He's fifth in the country in pass efficiency.  
 They have a couple of freshmen running backs, red shirt freshman Dion Lewis. He's a true freshman, Dion Lewis. He's done a nice job. Started every game this season. He's seventh in the country in rushing.   
 But the thing about him, he's got quickness. He can make you miss. He has good balance. He catches the ball out of the back field. He's been very impressive.   
 As fullback, Hynoski, he's a big guy at about 260 pounds. But he's not just some slug. He's a good receiver out of the back field. They do a lot of things with them.   
 He gives them a lot of flexibility. They use different tight ends, and they're certainly different. Byham, he's their starting returning tight end at 265. He can catch the ball well. He's not the same as when they play Dickerson. Dickerson is a very versatile athlete they use. He's a tight end, but they use him a lot of times like a wide receiver.   
 He's a very good athlete who really, really puts pressure on you because your defensive staff has to make a determination: Are you going to treat him like a tight end or treat him like a wide receiver?   
 When they want to bring another big guy in there, they bring Cruz in at 270, when they want to just go slug it out with you.   
 At the receiver position, Jonathan Baldwin has really developed into a very good player. When he first started he was just a big guy. Now he's a big guy that makes a bunch of plays. He runs well. He's got deceptive speed. He's got good hands. He'll go up and get it.  
 He certainly is a threat in the red zone. Turner or McGee will handle the Z. They're both good players. And Shanahan is the other guy who will see some time.   
 Now, their offensive line is a very experienced group. They started the same five guys for every game this year. Pinkston, left tackle, this is 24 for them. Thomas, their most experienced guy, 36 games for him. Houser is a returning center, former transfer. Malecki, he started 22 straight at right guard. Nix, he's been the starter. Although he's the relatively new guy in the grand scheme of things, he's started every game at right tackle for them this year.   
 On defense, Bennett, Coach Bennett, this is his second season here. And the one thing they do, they're leading the country in sacks. They've got 38 sacks per game. They've got 38 sacks on the year. And they usually do it just by rushing the front four.   
 Unlike a lot of teams that bring pressure, pressure, pressure, they pressure 10, 15 percent of the time. They just tell those big bad muchachos up front to get after the quarterback. And they do a very good job, all front four. I'll talk about them shortly, okay, but they all have production. None of them is just a run stopper only.   
 They've only given up 17 points per game, which is 19th in the country. Now, their defensive line, their right defensive end, or on our right, so their left defensive end, is Sheard. He's a returning starter. He's played 22 straight. I can go through stats for all these guys. But they all have big stats. Romeus on the other side, he's got big stats. He's a returning starter at 22 games, preseason Big East Defensive Player of the Year candidate.  
 And then inside they're not slugs either. Mustakas at the nose. And Williams at the 3 technique. As a matter of fact, Williams leads the team in tackles for loss and all four of those guys are playing very, very well. Linebacker Williams returns at their Sam. He's been very productive. He's got good speed. Gunn is their middle linebacker and leading tackler, and he also has five sacks.   
 And Gruder is their Will linebacker. To be honest, that's the one guy they never want to take off the field. Because when they go to substituted defenses, they want to keep him out there.   
 They've got two good cover corners in Chappel and Berry. Chappel is a returning starter at the field corner and Berry is not only a returning starter, but one of the best players in the Big East.   
 DeCicco, he's a returning starter at weak safety. He's played 32 games. He's their leading tackler on their team based off of their scheme. And Holley is a red shirt freshman who has done a nice job. And they put him in there about the last four games or so, and he's really helped solidify anything that they had left to solidify in that secondary.  
 Now Fields was that guy. But what they've done with Fields, now they've brought him down to play the nickel. And now you've got another big body in there that can play when you've got multiple wide receivers both against the run and pass.   
 On special teams, Hutchins handles both the place kicking and punting. Briggs is the kick-off guy for the second year in a row. Fieger is their long snapper. A big guy, an offensive lineman, wide body. But he does the long snapping and short snapping.  
 They've got two good kick-off returners in Saddler and Graham Sam. And Aaron Smith he'll handle their punt returns.  
  
  Q. Charlie, what's the plan at tight end?   
 COACH WEIS: Rudy probably won't be back for the rest of the regular season. Burger is back. So Ragone will start and it will be backed up by Burger.  
  
  Q. Just a couple of personnel questions. What went into the decision to move Goodman into the punt return spot?  
 COACH WEIS: Trying to take some hits off of Golden.  
  
  Q. The fumble call against Parris, were you disputing whether the whistle had blown?  
 COACH WEIS: No, the whistle had blown. What I was disputing is that they blew the whistle and stopped the play and then there's a rule, a seldom called rule about a fumble after continuous play even though the whistle had blown. So I mean it's not a question whether the whistle had blown. The whistle had blown.   
 So about, I don't know, five to ten seconds later they recovered the ball. So this isn't like your normal ball's on the ground everyone goes and scrambles and gets it. About five or ten seconds later the guy goes and recovers it. They had called it down. They were just moving forward. They got challenged and got overruled by -- I know the rule number and everything about continuous play.   
 But I'm saying to myself: You blew the play dead. Five seconds later they go recover the ball and now it's a fumble?   
 But there is a rule about continuous play. Now, that rule does exist.   
  
  Q. I wanted to follow up on what they said on TV regarding Floyd's injury. You said last week that he was completely healed. They made it sound like he was healed enough and that you had talked to him about how he should fall and what kind of routes you'd run with him?  
 COACH WEIS: First of all, I didn't say anything about how they should fall. That's the training staff talks about things like that.   
 What I said is what I had told them in my production meeting is I was going to keep them on the right side to make sure they didn't take any -- I was not going to get them on the left side. I was going to keep them on the right side to save them from hits -- by what we were doing, I was going to give them more protection by staying at the right side. And that's what I told him.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about playing Pittsburgh, seemed like this gives you a chance to kind of come back with a good win following a disappointing loss. How important is it to have a team like this right now?  
 COACH WEIS: I think it's probably the same tact that you would expect me to take, Tom, you know, that coming into a game, you're can contend on the road, you're playing a Top 10 team, I think it's going to be a raucous crowd.   
 There's all the reasons for the team to get fired up to get ready to go. I mean, every reason. There isn't a reason imaginable for the team not to get fired up. They're ready to go. You go beat a Top 10 team on the road, it doesn't take much for everyone to be feeling better after that ends up happening.   
 But we'll know that about 11:30, 12:00 Saturday night.   
  
  Q. Is this a program that really needs a win like this? I think you've lost seven straight to Top 25 teams?  
 COACH WEIS: Yeah, I think I'm worried more about the kids, that's what I'm worrying more about than anything else. I think for these kids' sake it would do them wonder to do this. I think the most important thing I have to worry about in the grand scheme of things, we talk about the program and I think that that's a critical factor. But most importantly, you know, you've got a bunch of 18- to 22-year-old kids that after a loss go to class and everyone says: Hey, what happened? What happened?   
 And I think right now the most important thing, when things like that happen, is for me to be there for them. And a situation like that, all we can do is fight together to be in position to go ahead and get this rectified this week.  
  
  Q. Talking to Jimmy last week, he mentioned that you've told him that the Purdue win was a defining moment for the way it came back, the comeback. What makes you think that was really a big moment for him?  
 COACH WEIS: For Jimmy? I think when you have quarterbacks, there comes a moment in their career where the word is not "aura" but their perception changes and the reality of the matter is that this kid's one of the best players in the country who is not only a talented player but tough.  
 And until that game, you know, the only question marks you could have with this kid: Could he run that 2-minute drive at the end of the game to win? And did he have that all-day toughness that most of the great ones have? In that game against Purdue those two things both matriculated. I think he showed toughness and showed that he could have that great drive to win a game at the end of the game.  
  
  Q. Is the next step for him to win a game like this? Everybody -- there's no doubt he's shown toughness in every game. But is the next step to show he can carry a team, win a game against a top-notch team?  
 COACH WEIS: The best thing you know is when you have a quarterback like Jimmy Clausen, there isn't a game you go into that you weren't expecting to win. When you have a quarterback like this, you say: Well, how is the game going to go? I say is Clausen going to be the quarterback? And he wants that burden.   
 Most people after the game were feeling sorry for themselves. He was mad at himself because he felt that he had lost the game. And that's what really good players do. They don't look at any other reason than themselves. I mean the kid's texting me at 1:00 in the morning about fumbling on the 1-yard line. He had just thrown 450 yards, going up and down the field. That meant nothing to him.  
 The only thing he wanted to talk about was fumbling on the one-yard line. So that will show you a lot of the character of this kid.  
  
  Q. What exactly is the injury to Kyle? What was the diagnosis?  
 COACH WEIS: It's some muscle -- muscles on the shoulder. I just know that they were fearing a collarbone being broken, and that's not it. So it's something that in all likelihood they said that Stanford is a possibility.   
 I say it might be -- I'm not the doctors, once again. I think that's a reach. I think he'll be able to practice again in December.  
  
  Q. You talked about talking to the team on Sunday and that was going to continue. What did you feel like the team got out of that? What reaction did you see from them?  
 COACH WEIS: I think when you talk to the players, you'll know that the message is exactly what I told you it would be, it was going to be about accountability. I think by the time they left Sunday, we had more guys around this building yesterday than we've ever had.   
 I think that a lot of guys looked at it from a different perspective than they might have looked at it.  
 Jimmy's always going to be around here on Monday, but not everyone is. Monday is the player's day off. We don't have meetings. We're game planning. There were more people around here yesterday than have ever been around. Because I think more people have taken a more personal, not the loss personally, but more personal accountability. And I think that that bodes well as we get move forward into today's practice.  
  
  Q. I think on Sunday you mentioned how Saturday's loss was different from Michigan. Do you have confidence that we're moving in the right direction? I think Saturday was one of those instances where maybe guys would look around. How do you feel --  
 COACH WEIS: I don't think it was confidence that was the difference, Pete. I think it was more disappointment. It was like when you have a minus three turnover ratio, 2 for 6 in the red zone, you don't stop the fullback and give a play action shot. They're really all the goals we had going into the game. We knew they were going to have to be the things you needed to do to win and all those things manifested themselves.  
  
  Q. With Jimmy, how much is this a week for him? Does he have to kind of drag guys along? Is that one of his biggest goals of the week to keep the mindset of the players right?  
 COACH WEIS: I don't think he's going to have to. If he needed to, that's what he would do. I'll be very surprised if he's going to have to.  
  
  Q. What do you plan to do this week red zone-wise in terms either how you approach it, what kind of plan you're going to have for it?  
 COACH WEIS: We're going to try not to fumble on the 1. And we're going to try not to throw an interception inside the 5.   
 Then we're going to try to make field goals when we're on the 14-yard line. That takes care of a few of them. And then fourth and 3 if we go for it we're going to try to score a touchdown or maybe just kick the field goal instead.  
 I'd like to sit there -- and we're also going to try not to have two wide receivers off the line of scrimmage and having illegal formation. We'll try to do all those things.  
 But in reality, from the head coach, who is the offensive coordinator and play caller, right on through the quarterback and everyone else, we're going to have to be a lot cleaner in execution, because that just wasn't good enough.  
  
  Q. What's your plan for Armando this week?  
 COACH WEIS: Armando should be starting at half back unless there's any unforeseen setback, just like Trevor should be starting at right guard unless there's some unforeseen setback.  
  
  Q. First of all, did Jimmy have to do a cognitive test or anything? There was definitely not a concussion on that play?  
 COACH WEIS: No. He was a sore puppy now. But no, he didn't have a cognitive test. He's the king of the ice bags, as I told you. And he had them all over: Neck, shoulder, toe. He was a one man M.A.S.H. unit.  
  
  Q. As years have gone on, Nevada has shown itself to be an excellent team. I'm sure you're aware of that. Do you go back to your players and say to them: What did we have on that Saturday that we have been missing lately, or is that a fair question?   
 COACH WEIS: No, we don't ever look back; we only look forward. We really address it more like what do we need to do to beat Pitt. It's all about Pitt. That's all it's about.   
 So you can go through and reevaluate the pros and cons of different things you did well in a self-count purpose, but really when you give the players a plan, this is what we need to do to beat Pitt and that's really on a week-to-week basis, that's all you really have time for.  
  
  Q. This is something about the U.S.A. Today piece. I imagine you're a little bit aware of this?  
 COACH WEIS: I have no idea. So whatever you're going to say I promise you it's going to be new to me.  
  
  Q. It's not but. The whole first page was about coaching salaries in general.   
 COACH WEIS: By the way, John, mine is grossly misreported in case you're wondering. And one step further while we're on that subject, if you would like to have my tax returns I'd be more than willing to have them just as long as you were willing to pay the difference between what's been reported and what I actually make. (Laughter).  
  
  Q. I'll never have that much money, Coach, I don't think.   
 COACH WEIS: You better have a seven-figure check ready, that's all I have to say.  
  
  Q. My question is, coaches in general make more money than they ever have, but they seem to have less time than they've have ever had. At what point is it completely out of whack in terms of your actual lifestyle.   
 COACH WEIS: This is going to be sad, the answer to this question, but actually the time I have now is so much better than the time I had in the NFL. The major difference is you don't get the kids until 2:15 in the afternoon. I actually have more time now with my family than I've ever had.   
 I mean, there were many years where I never saw anyone awake. Many years. Never saw anyone awake. I might see them on Friday. I might see them a little bit on Saturday. It was like a salesman that was on the road all the time. You never see them awake. There isn't one day where I don't get at least a chance to kiss my daughter good night before she goes to sleep.  
 It may not seem like a lot. It's not as much as normal people. But it's a lot more reasonable than the 15 years prior to coming.  
  
  Q. I don't know how big picture mood you are today, but this is the same stadium where you started your career, same opponent, same coach. As you kind of look back, has your career unfolded here the way you thought it would?  
 COACH WEIS: I'm so predictable. You already know what my answer is going to be when you ask that question. But I'm really only worrying about beating Pitt. And I'll never change.   
 I think the day that I walk away from here and I get time to sit back and reflect, I'll give you a holler and we'll go over that one. I'm just worrying about beating Pittsburgh. And I put all my energy in the week from the time the last game ends to the time the next game starts and to just beating that opponent.   
 And maybe I'm trained that way, but it's just a complete tunnel vision way of looking at it. I don't spend any time reflecting. I only worry about doing all I can to beat Pitt.  
  
  Q. Speaking of not changing, I think when you mentioned Saturday, I think you were talking about your demeanor the next day doesn't change, and I think some people took you to mean that you don't change anything about what you do in coaching and I think you've made a lot of changes and so forth?  
 COACH WEIS: No, it doesn't mean that you don't change your approach based off of the body of evidence of the game you played.   
 I mean, there's plenty of things that you do different. But I'm just saying that you're going to prepare whatever that message like this week was about accountability. That was the message on Sunday.   
 Now, today when they walk in, the first thing I'm going to have to do is let everyone know that not only here's the things that I need to do that we need to do for us to win a game, but I expect those all to happen.   
 Because if the players don't believe that the head coach believes they're going to win you might as well just throw in the towel. I mean, this isn't a sales job. This is, hey, fellows, this is what we're going to have to do. It's going to start with not turning the ball over. That would be a good place to start.  
  
  Q. This is a week where, too, we talked about this a little bit over the weekend, there's a lot of focus on you and your job this week. What have you learned in your past as the best way to deal with those kind of weeks?   
 COACH WEIS: It's all about Pitt. But that's it, though. Because you have tunnel vision and because that's all you do, all you can do is do all you can to win that game. Those things, you deal with, when the time comes. You don't worry about those things. They don't even cross your mind, because you have to spend all your time and energy doing everything you can to get ready to do all you can to beat Pitt.  
  
  Q. A little bit along the same lines. It's interesting because as you pick up the newspapers, watch TV, listen to the radio, the folks are out there spending hours and hours every day talking about how irrelevant Notre Dame has become. It seems like such a -- what is it about Notre Dame that just spurs such attention, good and bad?  
 COACH WEIS: We're so irrelevant that denotes a bit of hypocrisy here. We're so irrelevant, why would it be such a big story? I don't know the answer to that. It's a rhetorical question. Maybe you can help me out on that one.   
  
  Q. What is it about Notre Dame, though, that generates those kinds of feelings good and bad so powerful?  
 COACH WEIS: I don't have the answer to that question. It would be a totally subjective answer just based on my opinion and I'd rather be as objective as I could.  
  
  Q. As far as obviously the short yardage has been an issue. And not necessarily just this season, but throughout. What does it take to be a good short yardage team?  
 COACH WEIS: Moving along the line of scrimmage. That's true on goal line as well. So whether you're third and 1 or down on the 2-yard line. It's just which way is the line of scrimmage moving.   
 And they're selling out to stop the run and they know you're running it and you know you're running it, which way the line of scrimmage moves usually determines whether you have a successful play or not.   
  
  Q. It sounds like maybe it's just toughness, just will?  
 COACH WEIS: Sometimes it's just man-on-man who wins. Sometimes it's one guy. Sometimes it's multiple guys. Sometimes it's a runner. Sometimes it's a linebacker.   
 I mean, there's a different cast of characters to the end result of each play. Each play has a reason why it worked or it didn't work. But sometimes it could be as simple as the guy slipping. It could be that easy. Not easy, but the explanation could be that easy.   
  
  Q. Coach Powlus, when he was brought in, I felt he was more of a student even than a teacher when he first started. But seems like he's kind of evolved. Could you talk about his evolution as a coach?  
 COACH WEIS: He's done a very, very nice job. When people -- people know that I'm more the Xs and Os guy. But as you watch the evolution of Jimmy Clausen, one of the people who are key ingredients how he's evolved into the person that he is today is Ron, because no one lived the experience any tougher than he did going through it here. And that and the fact that he's a good football guy and he's good with fundamentals and techniques. But probably the greatest attribute he's had is to have him deal with everything, the mental preparation that comes to being a quarterback, not just a quarterback but at the quarterback at Notre Dame.  
  
  Q. Would you walk me through his game day responsibilities, Coach Powlus's game day responsibilities?  
 COACH WEIS: He signals what play we're running to the quarterback. And when the quarterback comes off the field, okay, he goes through, after they get down and get some rest, goes through questions and answers of anything that needs to be relayed to me while I'm waiting, while Rob and Bernie and I, usually Rob and I first are going through the drive and going through every play and what they did.   
 I have to wait a couple minutes while they compile all that stuff. Then after I get that, that's when I go to the players. In the meantime, he's the one who is spending time with the quarterbacks to get some questions and answers of things they saw before I get an opportunity to get to them.  
  
  Q. With respect to the tunnel vision, and I knew that was the answer. And everybody in the room does. And I know you shake your head as I begin my preamble, how do you think you're perceived by people outside the program, even who only know you through press conferences like this?  
 COACH WEIS: I think I should be more concerned with how I'm perceived by the people who do know me than the people who don't me. And I think that's really what's important in life, not the people who don't know you. It's the people who do know you.   
 So if Tom Coyne, who has seen me every day, if you go to Tom Coyne and he says: This guy is a real idiot, I see him every single day, then that's a problem. That's a problem, because we're not necessarily on the same side on a lot of issues, but that's when there's a problem.   
 People don't know you, why do I care what they think? Really? What do I care? If they don't know you, they'll have an opinion based off of what? They don't know. If they know you and they don't like you, that's a different problem.  
  
  Q. Going back to something you said a earlier, you went through years, a decade, where you never saw anyone awake, what makes that life worth it?  
 COACH WEIS: I think there's a trade-off, for example, in the Weis family. The trade-off is I give my family ever second of time when I'm not involved working. And I think that trade-off is as fair, even though it's not equitable, it's as fair as you could possibly be.   
 And I've said this often before. I don't play golf. I don't go fishing. I don't go hang with the fellas. I don't do any of those things. I'm either doing something with my family or for my family or for Hannah and friends. That's all I'm doing when I'm not working.   
 Because my family knows that's what I'm there for, that's why our family is so strong.  
  
  Q. Any learned person involved, any learned person involved in doing whatever they want to do, to echo a question earlier, seems like a natural way to ask, your coaching tenure, based as a Top 10 team, as broadly as you can muster it, looking at the treetops if you can, how would you describe that journey in whatever strokes you wish?   
 COACH WEIS: I'll let you know years from now when I'm sitting back and thinking about it I'll answer that question. But I'm not taking that beat. I'm worrying about -- that's great for sound bites, but in reality it's all about Pitt. That's all it is. It's about Pitt on Saturday night. I promise you that's the only way I think. That's the only way I'll ever think. It will never change. Nice try, though. (Laughter).  
  
  Q. This is a homecoming of sorts for Darrin. Could you talk about his journey over the last year or so?  
 COACH WEIS: I think that Darrin's going to be very excited to play in this game. And I think that that's a good thing because he's going to get challenged in this game as well. And I think to come back to your home turf where it all started and a lot of your boys are playing on the other team right there, I think that this is going to be an exciting game for Darrin, and I think more than any game than he's played this year, I think that this is going to be one of those ones where I feel pretty confident that whatever his best is, we're going to get it.  
  
  Q. Your true senior class the Sam Young/Aldridge group was the first group you were on the ground floor with. We're coming down the home stretch. How do you sum up the four years with that group and what they've meant to the program?  
 COACH WEIS: I think that there's so many of those kids that have gone through quite a roller coaster ride from when they first got here to when they're leaving. But I think that I can't think of one guy off the top of my head that walking out this door won't be better for it.   
 I think they're so fortunate to be surrounded by such a group of fine young men that when they leave here, they know what Notre Dame's all about. And trials and tribulations in football and trials and tribulations in life, I think you can take Sam Young and take this group, they're going to be better for it.  
  
  Q. Each of the last three years we've heard this chorus of what's your future. I know how you handle all the questions and stories. How does your family handle it?  
 COACH WEIS: That's probably the only -- there are really two groups, three groups that I concern myself with. And I'm certainly not one of them. I always start with more on Charlie, because Hannah really doesn't understand. And what people don't understand, good and bad, is this isn't a game for them. They're not a fan. This is their life. It's totally different when it's your life than when it's a game. You guys cover it as a sport.   
 You cover it as a game. It's not a game for us. This is our life. It's not just the wins and losses. It's everything that goes with it. Positively and negatively. So you do the math on how that's going. And the other two groups I concern myself with are the players and their families and the coaches and their families. And that's really who I have to -- they're the people who I have to answer to on a daily basis. Granted, I have to answer to the university and everything like that, but who I have to care for are the people who are under my watch. And that's the ones I concern myself with.   
  
  Q. How does the tight end depth work at this point? You have Mike, you have Bobby. Do you have to think about moving another guy up that maybe wouldn't have played at this point?   
 COACH WEIS: No, I think what we would do is we are training a couple of offensive linemen to be able to utilize in the game. So if that's the situation it got into, that's what we'd do.   
 But it would take two injuries to truly get into a precarious situation where you had no -- where no actual tight ends playing in the game.   
 Now, we have that -- just so you know, we have to have that covered, too, just in case. You can't go into the game saying there's not going to be two injuries. In that case you either use linemen or you use receivers or backs. You use another position to go ahead and answer the question.  
  
  Q. I guess that's where I was going. Is it much limited what you can do with just kind of two true tight ends healthy or not so much?  
 COACH WEIS: No, you can do everything as long as you keep two true tight ends. Where it becomes a little bit crazier, when you lose one of those guys and now you're back to the situation you were in last year where you got one useful tight end.   
 As long as we have two, it keeps you from really getting pigeon holed.  
  
  Q. This may be more objective and a big picture thing you swat down. But you mentioned after the game on Saturday one of the sad parts of the job is the week-to-week evaluation it seems a lot. For you or almost any coach for that matter, what are fair points to evaluate a coach in his performance, do you think?  
 COACH WEIS: Elaborate. I don't know where you're going.  
  
  Q. You wait until after season to really say, okay, this is the kind of job a coach is doing as opposed to, well, we just lost to Navy or almost lost to USC or almost beat Michigan, is it after every season that is a fair point to evaluate a coach, or do you have to go broader than that?  
 COACH WEIS: What we do is we evaluate the game more than the coach. And within the valuation of the game, the pros and cons of what went well or what didn't go well get evaluated.   
 And so therefore there's elements of everyone that are involved in the pros and cons. But as far as the complete analysis of everything, you know, you have to wait until you have a full body of work.  
  
  Q. I guess I'm not asking this well enough so I'll try again. I thought you were talking after the game on Saturday about yourself, as the Notre Dame head coach week-to-week, and you said that was the sad part of it. Evaluating a head coach, whether it's us or anybody of us, is that a post after the season kind of thing?  
 COACH WEIS: I'm talking me, the assistants and others. I'm talking a much broader scope than you're asking.  
  
  Q. I'll asking a little picture about the game. Compare and contrast the Pitt defensive line, their front four with the USC defensive line, they're front four, both of them able to get pressure without really having to do a lot of blitzing?  
 COACH WEIS: I think that the one thing that USC has is more depth than most other teams. They roll some people in and out. I think Pitt at this point, this year, this moment right now are more experienced. I think USC has more depth.  
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT