ATP CUP
January 5, 2020
Jan-Lennard Struff
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. STRUFF/M. Pervolarkis
6-4, 6-1
Germany - 1
Greece - 0
THE MODERATOR: Who has the first question, please?
Q. Congrats on the win. What would you contribute the slow start to, I guess?
JAN-LENNARD STRUFF: Sorry?
Q. You started a little slow out there it seemed like and you got that early break. What would you contribute that to?
JAN-LENNARD STRUFF: I think he came out playing very well. It's tough to prepare for an opponent you don't know really much. So he was pretty aggressive. I mean, I did expect that. I mean, yeah, he was playing very aggressive and I didn't find him keen in the first game and I told myself that 3-2 down it felt not good to be 3-2 down break, like against Nick, and I said to myself, I need to find a way for to go out there and to battle back now. And I did find a way and it was very important for me to get myself up again. And I think he felt like 3-2 he broke up. He felt like, yeah, and if he can go up 4-2, I think it's going to be tough because he will get like a lot of support from the Greek fans and he will feel his self more comfortable again, so it was very important that I do the 3-0.
Q. So you think it turned around on your service games overall? Your ability to control your service games kind of took over?
JAN-LENNARD STRUFF: Yeah, I mean, if you find a way and kind of -- he played very well in the beginning. So if you find to manage to get through that point, and I got to 6-4 as well, so then you have to push a bit more to get your service games down as well. I mean, I was serving pretty well in the beginning, but he was returning good, so I tried to mix a bit of serves. And in the end I managed to break him early, so it was very important and as well, the break to 5-1 so the match was not really over, but it's just over when you play the last point. But when I broke him completely like to do the 5-1.
Q. How about your off-season too? How did you feel during the off-season after such a good 2019?
JAN-LENNARD STRUFF: The off-season was very well. I needed a bit of a break with my family, with my kid, my girlfriend, and with whole family and friends. And, yeah, we went to Capetown, had a very good time there. And after that the practice started again. We did a lot of fitness work in the beginning, but I played as well the Diriyah Cup in Saudi Arabia, so I needed to prepare to play matches at the beginning, straight away. So we start a bit earlier with tennis than with the fitness work. Normally, we do a lot of five, six, seven days maybe of fitness only, and then we go to the tennis. Now we had to do both at the same time. But I think we had a very good pre-season as well and we could play with all the good guys there and with Medvedev, Isner, so it was pretty good.
Q. Where was that again?
JAN-LENNARD STRUFF: That was in Saudi Arabia in Riyadh there was Diriyah Tennis Cup.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT