SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 28, 2004
Kerry Haigh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JULIUS MASON:  Good morning, everyone.  I think everybody knows Kerry Haigh, our Managing Director of Senior PGA tournaments or PGA tournaments.  Kerry, just some opening comments and I think that we have a couple of questions for you.
KERRY HAIGH:  Okay.  Good morning, everyone.  Assume everyone's read the statement or is aware of the latest situation.  The plan is still to hopefully restart at 2:30.  But obviously that depends on the water and when it will subside.  The golf course, Mark Wilson and his grounds crew have done an outstanding job cleaning up, clearing up, repairing the bunkers for the fourth or fifth time this week and they're just doing a yeoman's job out there.  It's incredible.  They have been here since 3 in the morning, until late last night, sleeping overnight here, staying overnight for what little sleep they get.  And they're truly doing an outstanding job.  So that's where we stand at the moment.
Q.  Do you think you'll get the first round in today and have you guys thought about what's going to happen for the next three or four days?
KERRY HAIGH:  Certainly.  We have, obviously, as I said earlier, we're dependent on the river and how quickly that subsides, so that we can get the course playable.  We still remain hopeful that we can play today.  If we don't, then we will take up tomorrow, similar format to what was originally planned today, hopefully complete the second round tomorrow.
Q.  So that -- will you push back to Monday for the fourth round?
KERRY HAIGH:  At this point it really depends whether or not we play today for one thing.  Because the more we play today, obviously the more chance we have of continuing and completing on Sunday.  If we are unable to complete the 72 holes by Sunday, then we would go into Monday and complete it at that point.
Q.  You've done this for a lot of tournaments, how bad is this one?  I think it's just the front nine, is that correct, that's right now the problem?  Just the front nine that's affected by the weather and how bad is this?  Can you compare it to anything?
KERRY HAIGH:  Every event is a great challenge.  It creates different problems.  It's certainly a lot of rain and a lot of consecutive days, four days of consecutive suspension, it's certainly not unknown, but each rain seems to be harder than the previous rain, which again creates more challenges.  The back nine is certainly playable or will be playable sooner than the front nine.  But, no, every championship creates a challenge and we have been unfortunate with the weather.  But we're certainly hopeful that we have got a couple of good days forecast wise and obviously even saw the sunshine a few minutes ago.  So that's good news.
Q.  You're talking about the river subsiding, there was a local report that said that it may not even crest until tomorrow morning.  Can you make a comment on that?
KERRY HAIGH:  Yeah, I'm unaware of that situation.  I think from my observation now the river has moved down or is dropping.  And hopefully will continue to do so.
Q.  Is there a scenario where you would play 54 holes and if so, what would that scenario be?
KERRY HAIGH:  This is a Major championship and obviously our, we intend to play 72 holes.  Hopefully we'll end by Sunday evening and if not we'll go into Monday to complete it.
Q.  Do you know how much rain has fallen this week here?
KERRY HAIGH:  I believe 4.4 inches.  There was 1.3 inches more last night, but obviously the river's affected not just by rainfall here, as you know there have been far heavier amounts upstream and that's a big part of the problem is it's not just the rainfall we're having on-site, but the even heavier rainfall round about, which is swelling the river.
Q.  Are there any other problems with the course?  Are there any trees down anywhere or is it just mainly the water that's the biggest problem?
KERRY HAIGH:  Well, obviously, as I said at the beginning, the ground crew have been repairing all the bunkers.  Pretty much every bunker is washed out again.  But the actual playing surfaces, the greens, the fairways and the roughs, all remain pretty good, obviously saturated still.  We are going out and mowing and doing what mowing and maintenance we can do.  But that's obviously a little limited because of the how wet it is.  In terms of trees, there have been some limbs down, but no major trees.  So quite a bit of loose debris, but nothing too severe, thankfully.  As you know, round about there's been a lot of more severe.  So we have been fortunate in that regard.
Q.  Is there any precedent to going to Tuesday?  What's the latest you guys have ever gone?  Is there a drop dead time for you to go to 54 holes?
KERRY HAIGH:  Our aim is to play 72 holes and we will certainly go into Monday and I think we would look at whatever Mother Nature brings us on Monday to see what we need to do from that point.  But our aim is, as a Major championship, to play 72 holes.
Q.  Has there ever been one to go to Tuesday?
KERRY HAIGH:  I have not, in the championships I've run, but I'm sure that there have been in the past other events that have gone into Tuesday, yes.
Q.  When play was stopped last night I assume players marked their balls.  Was there any, did anybody lose any marks or anything with all the rain, get washed away?
KERRY HAIGH:  To be honest we went round and looked at a lot of the marks, but the Rules of Golf will cover if there are.  Obviously, no players have been back out to see or find their balls.  And some way well be under a lot of water right now.  But the Rules of Golf cover that once we get out there and find the location and we'll get the balls back into play and we'll be fine.
JULIUS MASON:  Questions?  Questions twice?  Thanks very much, Kerry.
KERRY HAIGH:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT