PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2003
Kerry Haigh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JULIUS MASON:  Good evening, everyone.  Whom I think many of you know, we have, Kerry Haigh, the managing director at the PGA of America.  He's here to bring you up to speed on the question that many of you have had. 

I'll open up to you, maybe a comment and we'll go to Q&A. 

KERRY HAIGH:   Well, I don't know what else to say other than we've completed the first round of the Championship.  Had an excellent day, great weather, good golf. 


Q.  Just a question with what's going on with the power outages, the county has declared a state of emergency.  I know a county executive, it was a concern of his regarding tomorrow and spectators coming out here, and in a radio interview I heard, he was waiting to hear from the PGA of America on any decisions regarding tomorrow.  Have you given any thought to shutting the course down, the spectators or continuing as planned with round two?

KERRY HAIGH:   I have not heard that, no.  So as far as I am aware of, everything is on schedule. 


Q.  Is everybody happy with the state of the rough?  There were some players who were not happy with the state of the rough.  What's the PGA's view on eight inches of rough? 

KERRY HAIGH:   I'm not sure there's eight inches there.  The rough was mowed on Monday and Tuesday, in the rain. 

It's a tough rough, no question.  It's tough. 


Q.  You're not going to cut it? 

KERRY HAIGH:   Not tonight.  We'll look at it tomorrow. 


Q.  A follow-up on the initial question.  If Monroe County were to determine that it was unsafe for people to be on the roads and people holding tickets could not come to the course, would the PGA consider delaying the round? 

KERRY HAIGH:   That's speculation.  I'm not aware of that situation being in place at the moment.  We're on schedule right now. 


Q.  Specifically in terms of power outages, in the environment of the tournament, what do you lose because of land lines and what do you not lose because of generators? 

KERRY HAIGH:   Well, we've moved some generators around where we have needed them for some essential locations.  Some are on-shore power and some areas are on generators.  The good news is that golf doesn't need power; it's talent and skill.  So the golfers are playing well, we have a manual backup system with radios for scoring, if need be. 

So there's a variety of things.  But power is coming back on, I believe.  Right now the clubhouse and club are back on and some of the hotels are back on. 


Q.  When you were moving to accommodate power outages, what were you losing that you needed to move generators to bring you back up to speed? 

KERRY HAIGH:   We were losing  -- there were actually blackout wands that were available at this point and we moved just a couple of them. 


Q.  Scoreboards or any of that kind of stuff? 

KERRY HAIGH:   All of the scoreboards are manual out there, other than I think the media board here. 


Q.  I guess it's appropriate to ask who has been in contact with the officials of the county from the PGA of America, and what is the procedure for delaying or postponing a round within the organization? 

KERRY HAIGH:   Tournament director, Bob Jeffrey, and our security people have been talking, and obviously if and when we need to do something, we will. 

At this point, we haven't been told anything other than, play will continue. 


Q.  Just what specifically do you lose as far as concessions or what-have-you, that affects fans' participation or attending this event, if there's a power outage such as this? 

KERRY HAIGH:   In honesty, not that much.  I think most people out on the golf course were not aware that anything has happened.  Certainly, I don't believe many of the golfers did.  You've probably spoken to them, but certainly our rules officials and I don't think many spectators did out there.  And I didn't until I was called on the radio. 


Q.  Logistically, what do you have in place, not so much if -- say the course isn't affected, but the traffic lights that are out, there's a jam-up here, do you have any liaison; exactly what steps are in place to take in the event of such an emergency? 

KERRY HAIGH:   I think it's fair to say this hasn't happened very often, thankfully, for all of us.  We'll be meeting this evening to determine what needs to be done and we'll do our utmost to make sure it is done, in a quality manner to make sure everyone has a great championship.


Q.  I know we've talked about this, coming in late, I'm just trying to clear things up.  I just found out officially, we are in a state of emergency in Monroe County.  Does that change your plans at this point? 

KERRY HAIGH:   Again, you know more than I do at this point.  We'll talk with the necessary people and find out what that means. 


Q.  To the best of your knowledge, has TNT or any other broadcast been affected by the outage? 

KERRY HAIGH:   No, not in the least.  I think they had a great telecast today and look forward to another one tomorrow. 


Q.  At any point this afternoon when the power outages started to happen, did you give any consideration, or what options were you considering in terms of letting either the spectators or the players know what was going on? 

KERRY HAIGH:   As I said earlier, I think nobody was really aware of it on the golf course.  Everyone was enjoying the day.  It's a dynamic situation and there's certainly no feeling or fear of emergency out on the golf course.  Everyone was having a good time and I think continued to have a good time. 


Q.  Did you think that if you had put the information out, it could have caused some kind of discomfort among the people who were out there  -- I'm not going to say panic, but people might have gotten concerned, or were you even thinking about that?

KERRY HAIGH:   In honesty, no.  I don't think we knew enough information to know other than there was a power outage in New York which was rolling over.  And I think rolling power outages are things that happen.  It happened in California last year.  It's not a common occurrence, but it's happened and we're fully prepared, that we all cope and life goes on. 

As I say, it was a shock and surprise to us that it even was happening. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT