PILOT PEN TENNIS AT YALE
August 28, 2010
Denis Istomin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. STAKHOVSKY/D. Istomin
  3-6, 6-3, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Your first ATP Final. You obviously would have liked to have won, but how was the experience for you?  
 DENIS ISTOMIN: You know, I so happy to be in final first time. And, of course, I'm like little bit waiting for my first win. But also is not my last one, the final. I hope soon in the future I can make the winner.   
  
  Q. There were only three breaks in the whole match. What was the difference? He seemed to be able to change the pace on occasion.   
 DENIS ISTOMIN: The first set, I broke him straight, like next game, first his game. I mean, then he's serving pretty well. You know, first set I was good returning because I saw the balls good. But after the light distort myself and I couldn't return so well, you know.   
 If I make very good returns, maybe I can broke him back in the third set.   
  
  Q. Were you thinking in the third set you almost had a break, could do it, or was his serve just too good?  
 DENIS ISTOMIN: Yeah, he serving good, serve and volley. Tough because I was like returning and he finish the point. I mean, he's playing well today. After the first set, he concentrate and doing his best, you know.   
 I just, you know, tried to do my best on the return also, but it was like he's playing good. That's why.   
  
  Q. Now going to the US Open, you have to be pretty happy with how the week went overall in preparation for the major.   
 DENIS ISTOMIN: Yeah, I mean, yesterday I talking also I need some matches for being in good shape, you know. For US Open, I feel like I'm in good form. I try do my best also there. I always try do my best. We will see what's happen there.   
 I have not like easy draw, but we will see what's happening. But now I feel like I can play good, show the good tennis.   
  
  Q. Did you have a problem with your racquet at one point? Did you switch racquets before the third set?  
 DENIS ISTOMIN: Yeah, my racquet, a little bit the tension is going down. Like when I hitting the ball, like I miss a lot. Then I switch. I start to play better on the baseline, less mistakes. But he already have confidence after second set and he didn't give me the chance.   
  
  Q. It's been a while, but you missed two years with a car accident. How has the climb back been? Do you think you are now where you should be?  
 DENIS ISTOMIN: Yeah, I missed like two years. But my mother tell me always like, when I start work again in tennis, just believe yourself and try to come back and start to play.   
 Now, the results. I am in final. Like, I don't know, just believe. When you believe yourself, you can do anything.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT