PILOT PEN TENNIS AT YALE
August 27, 2010
Denis Istomin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







D. ISTOMIN/V. Troicki
  7-6, 3-6, 6-2

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Can you talk about after that second set, he had you down. How did you get back your mental state?
 DENIS ISTOMIN: In the first set was very tough. Was having chances to win the set. Finally I won it. 
 Second set, I was little bit unconcentrate, you know, on my serve, like third game he broke me. Is difficult to play because one side was like sun and shadow together. Sometimes you didn't see the ball, how was coming, but then was like okay. 
 In third set, I was like lose my serve, then concentrate again, like come back and win the match (smiling). 

 Q. Can you talk about the drop volley you had in the first break in the third set that put you over the top there. 
 DENIS ISTOMIN: The drop volley? Yeah, he very good moving on the baseline, you know. I hit a lot. I lose a lot of points. I just tried to make the dropshot and it's working. I made a second one also and I broke him. 

 Q. He said you both didn't play well. Do you agree with that?
 DENIS ISTOMIN: I mean, it's very nervous game. I mean, yeah, sometimes we play good, sometimes we like miss a lot. But, I mean, it's semifinal, very nervous. But in the totally, we play okay. 

 Q. A lot of players use this week as a tune-up for the Open. Do you view it differently? You're looking to break through. Do you view this differently than a so-called 'tune-up'? 
 DENIS ISTOMIN: I mean, I decide to play here. I was in Cincinnati. I retired from the second round. I was like strain my ankle. I thinking playing here or not. You know, it's last moment I just tried. Now I'm in final. 
 I mean, it's just like that. 

 Q. What would it mean to you to win here? 
 DENIS ISTOMIN: Well, I don't know. Every match winning is very important here for the US Open, have a little confidence. For me it's special because I need more matches for be on my best, you know, because like sometimes you miss a lot, a couple tournaments you lose in first rounds. Now, I mean, I won straight three matches. It's very good. Good condition for US Open now. 

 Q. Is this your first ATP Tour final? 
 DENIS ISTOMIN: Yeah, it's the first one. I was like two times in the semifinal. Finally in final, so... 

 Q. Are you excited to be in the final? 
 DENIS ISTOMIN: Final is good, but is better to be winner. 

 Q. Are you familiar with Stakhovsky's game?
 DENIS ISTOMIN: I know. We meet a couple times, like a couple years ago. We know each other, you know. We play. 
 I don't know. We will see tomorrow. 

 Q. Is your mother your coach, as well?
 DENIS ISTOMIN: Yeah.

 Q. How unique is that among tour players and how special is it for you?
 DENIS ISTOMIN: For me is very, very good, you know, because it's like the person who's like always with me. We travel together. I mean, for now I don't know if I can practice with other coaches because I feel very good with mom, really understanding together. No, it's very good. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT