UNIVERSITY OF BUFFALO FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 1, 2016
Tyree Jackson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Boston College - 35, Buffalo - 3
Q. Tyree, is your body okay?
TYREE JACKSON: Yeah, I'm fine.  I'm fine.
Q. Because you took a big hit there on one of the last ones.
TYREE JACKSON: Yeah, I'm okay.
Q. Just your thoughts overall; you knew they're a nationally-ranked defense.  I presume they were as good as you expected.  What did you think of their defense?
TYREE JACKSON: Oh, they definitely have some players on that team, on their defense.  They have some really big athletes.  Their front seven is probably one of the best in the country, so it was just -- just to play them, it's going to prepare us for the MAC, and it's a good team we played, a good defense.
Q. It looked like early you wanted to try and maybe get some quick throws to the outside.  When you're throwing those to Marcus, when it left your hand, were you thinking he's got some room and it evaporated, or what did you think of that?
TYREE JACKSON: Yeah, their safeties did a great job.  I'm not sure of his name, No. 9 was flying around.  He's a great athlete.  He was coming downhill, so I mean, he made some big plays and limited some of the stuff we could do.
Q. Schreck, it just seemed like whenever you threw to him there wasn't much separation there, either.  Milan owe, 28, did you notice him much?
TYREE JACKSON: Yeah, I think he was an all-conference player last year for them, so I mean, he's a good player.  But I think Mason Schreck matches up well against anybody he plays in the country.  He made some plays.  But it was just a battle going on between those two.
Q. Were they mostly man coverage did you feel?
TYREE JACKSON: Yeah, the whole game, yeah.
Q. I think you knew coming in that it was going to be a tough test with Boston College's defense.  Was it a little harder than maybe you even anticipated?  The offense really struggled to get things going.
TYREE JACKSON: Yeah, we're still trying -- we're in that process of trying to get stuff -- get it to mesh up front.  We've got some guys moving around and stuff.  Yeah, they were a great team, great defense.  All credit to them.  But we're going to get ready and we're going to be ready for the MAC play.
Q. Just 16 total points in the first half of the four games that you guys had played.  How do you get going a little quicker on offense?
TYREE JACKSON: I mean, definitely that's all on us.  We've got to get it going.  There's not much more you can really say about that right now, just as far as we've got to get it going.  Our defense has been playing lights out, and at some point we've just got to help them out.
Q. You got the turnover in the second quarter deep in their territory, had the ball at the 11.  The 3rd down play, Schreck over to your left, they blitzed; what do you remember of that?  Were you hurried a little?
TYREE JACKSON: Yeah, I mean, they brought pressure on 3rd down, so just tried to give mason a chance, ended up being an incompletion and we made the kick, but yeah, just tried to make a play right there.  We're going to continue to get better throughout the year, and just going to get better.
Q. On the inside zone plays, the read option, you didn't really -- you didn't take any real -- made one play.  Were they staying home, the defensive ends, is that what you saw, or did you go into the game saying, that's never going to be there?  Which one was it?
TYREE JACKSON: No, we were still reading them, but their defensive ends did a good job of playing home.  They were just waiting for -- if I would pull it, they were just waiting there, so I mean, they were just staying home, and they were a real fundamental defense.  They did a great job.
Q. 1-3, but the MAC is up next; is it almost a little bit of a clean slate now because it's like now we have conference play?
TYREE JACKSON: Definitely.  If you're a competitor, though, losing any game hurts.  It still hurts.  But looking forward, yeah, MAC play starts.  Everyone is 0-0 in the MAC.  Everyone has a clean slate whether you're 4-0 in non-conference or 1-4, 0-4, doesn't matter, but what matters is next Saturday we're just going to play.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT