LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 9, 2020
Kawhi Leonard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  Nets 129, Clippers 120
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Kawhi.
 Q. Throughout the bubble you have sort of been up and down, playing well in spurts, but not for 48 minutes.  What can you attribute these spurts in play to?  Is it dangerous to enter the Playoffs playing this way?
 KAWHI LEONARD:   I mean, yeah.  We definitely got to be in a better rhythm.  Guys have been in and out of the lineup, key guys.  Still waiting on Trez to get back.  You know what I mean?  It's going to be like that some days when you have Trez out or guys that contribute.
 Q. When Trez comes back, what will you be looking for specifically as far as trying to see how you will build that chemistry that you will need to make a championship run?
 KAWHI LEONARD:   He brings a lot of energy for us.  Good rebounder.  Also good on switching.  Good post-up player.  Good passer.  Once we add a guy that's playing the whole entire game, 48 minutes, I think it will make the team better.
 Q. Obviously without Trez there, it's given Zubac the opportunity to get some more playing time.  What have you seen from him in the bubble, the progress that he's shown?
 KAWHI LEONARD:   He's been doing it all season, he's just able to get more minutes.  But he's been very active on the offensive rebounds, defensive rebounds, blocking shots.  He's doing a good job for us, giving us help.
 Q. Obviously you are locked into either the two or three seed.  How have you split bouncing things like being healthy, rested, in rhythm with sort of seeding and winning?  Is that a balance?
 KAWHI LEONARD:   At this point there's really no home-court advantage.  No fans out there.  No travel.  I mean, I definitely think the healthiest teams usually win it all.  Guys that have the full roster, it's hard play the bench.
 Hopefully everybody can get back.  If we get a rhythm going with the guys that are here that usually play, we'll see what happens.
 THE MODERATOR:   Thanks.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT