LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 4, 2020
Kawhi Leonard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  Suns 117, Clippers 115
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Kawhi.
 Q. Seemed like a tough game for you, playing from behind all game.  What was the reason for that?  And take us through the last possession for the Suns.  How did Devin Booker get the look over you guys?
 KAWHI LEONARD:   They played well.  They played good basketball today, the Phoenix Suns did.  They played together.  Devin Booker came out playing aggressive, great.  Ayton followed up with some excellent play as well.
 I mean, you pretty much seen the shot.  He got to his spot, pivot, shot a fadeaway.
 Q. Obviously the last play notwithstanding, Zub played a pretty strong game today.  What did you see from him?
 KAWHI LEONARD:   He got out there playing defense, guarding a good big with Ayton.  Got some offensive rebounds, defensive rebounds.  Some good (indiscernible) for us tonight, as well.
 Q. Doc said he's fine of throwing guys right into the fire when they come back.  Lou played 21 minutes.  Did you feel like there was any rhythm when you were on the floor together?
 KAWHI LEONARD:   I mean, yeah.  Lou can wake up and score the ball, you know what I mean?  You got to really ask him how he felt out there.  I thought he came in and played his game tonight.
 Q. What did you see from Marcus today?  Seemed like he stayed aggressive despite some shooting troubles lately.
 KAWHI LEONARD:   He doesn't give up, you know what I mean?  He was playing good defense.  He's playing hard.  Like I say, he don't give up.
 If he misses five in a row, he's going to shoot it like he made 10 in a row.  That's what you got to do in this league.  You can't never get down on yourself, you got to stay in the queue.
 Q. Knowing what it takes to win a championship, how many games do you think you need to see this group be together before you go into the Playoffs to be together and on the same page?
 KAWHI LEONARD:   I mean, you really never know.  There's going to be a time where you make a turnaround as a team.  Sometimes it doesn't happen.  All we can do is just keep using these games as a learning experience, do less mistakes next game, give a better effort, more energy.  That's pretty much it.  Just got to keep fighting.
 THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, Kawhi.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT