LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS MEDIA CONFERENCE
July 30, 2020
Kawhi Leonard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  Lakers 103, Clippers 101
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Kawhi Leonard.
 Q. Your overall assessment of tonight's game.  You were missing Lou, Trez.  You were in it till the end.
 KAWHI LEONARD:   Say that again.
 Q. Can you assess the entire game considering you were short Lou, Trez, 20 turnovers, still in the game.
 KAWHI LEONARD:   We're still kind of figuring it out.  It was a good game.  We still had fun out there.  Was great to be back on the floor.  But we still have to (indiscernible).  We can't turn the ball over that much.  We are missing those guys.  They are the two big key players for us.  We miss them.
 Overall I thought we fought all night.  Definitely got to get better with some of our execution.  Pretty good game.
 Q. The anthem, linking arms and kneeling, talk about that decision, what was going through your mind.
 KAWHI LEONARD:   I was just listening to the music.  Before yesterday we all knew we were going to do that, both teams together, came together, that we wanted to make a statement.  Came out and did that.
 Q. Was there anything specifically that the Lakers were doing defensively to get to you or was it just a matter of you developing a rhythm after you got into foul trouble?
 KAWHI LEONARD:   I mean, felt like I got to my spots tonight.  I missed some of them.  I think we did a pretty good job as a team of getting the ball where I needed it to be.
 Obviously they got good defenders, good coaching staff.  They're playing hard.  Just fighting (indiscernible).
 Q. Doc mentioned during the two-minute national anthem his knee started hurting, but then he thought about how long George Floyd had a knee on his neck.  What went through your mind?
 KAWHI LEONARD:   I mean, just trying to show everybody that all the NBA players, we're into it.  We see what's going on outside.  Even though we're here playing basketball, we still want things to get better.  We all came together down on one knee.
 That pretty much was my mindset, just help stopping this racial conflict right now.  Just be equal, everybody's equal.
 THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, Kawhi.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT