LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 9, 2020
Kawhi Leonard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Clippers 96, Nuggets 85
Q. The last two games Lou has picked up his defensive intensity.  What have you seen from him that he's been able to step it up as well as he has.
KAWHI LEONARD:   Just knowing what coverage he's in, and you know, we're big on him trying to box those guys out.  You know, he's doing a great job at it.  He did well tonight.  That's it, just being locked in and using his hands trying to get deflections.  He's been big for us.
Q. So you guys are on the verge of making some franchise history and one game away from getting into the Conference Finals for the first time does.  That mean anything to you guys?
KAWHI LEONARD:   I mean, it's always good if you can make it to the next round, but you know, we've got a lot of work to do still.  The Denver team does not quit.  They have got a good group over there, a good coach.  So we still fighting.
Q. All season, Doc has seemed to harp on limiting turnovers.  I think tonight, only one player had multiple turnovers.  Is that when you feel like you're at your best whenever you all are controlling the pace and keeping control of the ball?
KAWHI LEONARD:   Yeah, I think any team, in a playoff game you have either under eight or seven turnovers, I think any team is at their best when they do that.  You know, it's big to get a shot up every time on offense, and you know, you don't want to give no easy offense with guys stealing the ball or you throwing a bad pass and they get a layup.
Q. I wanted to ask about the intensity you came out with to really jump on them defensively versus the past couple games where it took a minute for you guys to get into that defensive flow.  What was different tonight, and what was different in the mindset and mentality coming into the game that has been different in the other nights?
KAWHI LEONARD:   Just trying to focus on it I guess.  You know, it finally carried over to tonight's game.  I think we've still got to tighten some things up.  They missed some easy shots early on, as well, and you know, we just got to get better.
Q. Can you talk about the intensity tonight?  Can you speak to where you think the team is, coming together on both ends of the floor?  Seems like you've started to communicate a lot better as the playoffs have gone on, but where do you think you guys are?
KAWHI LEONARD:   We are all still learning each other.  It's a different team.  You know, especially with me and PG, and even the guys that have been here, it's a different style of play, different voices that you're hearing, so we are we're trying to come together.  I don't know where we are, but I know that we just want to keep getting better, and that's the focus on each and every day, is just being a better unit.
Q. What did you see from Trezl tonight?  Does it look like he's starting to get his rhythm back?
KAWHI LEONARD:   Tonight he could jump into the ball early.  You know, showed hands.  Very aggressive on the defensive end, which led to some offensive baskets for him.  Getting his energy up, getting to the paint, knocking down some big free throws for us.  He did well tonight.  He was talking through and running in some screens, so he was a big part.  We need everybody to win these games.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT