NBA ALL-STAR 2019
February 16, 2019
Kawhi Leonard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Who's your favorite player to guard?  
KAWHI LEONARD: I don't really have a favorite player to guard.  I guess somebody on the bench who doesn't play.  It's easier to guard them.   
 Q.  (Inaudible).  
KAWHI LEONARD: He brought a lot to the game.  He helped me out a lot.  You know, just coming in as a rookie, seeing how he works, how he approaches every game, and I was just blessed to be a part of a championship run with him.  It was amazing just to learn from him every day.   
 Q.  On the difficulty of making an All-Star team:  
KAWHI LEONARD: Like you said, it's only 24 players that are able to play.  They usually choose like three players from a team that's No. 1, or just going down the line of star power, just who's hyped up in the media.  I mean, everybody deserves their opportunity to be here.   
 Q.  On the All-Star experience:  
KAWHI LEONARD: I'm just happy that I'm able to get to this point still after dealing with a long injury.  Just a stepping stone to my career and something that I could look back on and know that I put in a lot of time and effort, and I was able to get an accomplishment done.   
 Q.  Is there a website or a clothing line?  
KAWHI LEONARD: There will be soon.  Me and New Balance are working on something now.  Just test trials for me to wear, see if the fans like it.   
 Q.  Was it fun?  What did you think of the outcome of the video?  
KAWHI LEONARD: The outcome of the video was great.  It portrays who I am as a player.  Working with New Balance, it's great because they want me to be myself.  They want me to be me.  That's all you can ask for.   
 Q.  On being the best version of himself:  
KAWHI LEONARD: I don't know.  I don't rank myself.  I'm just happy with the position we are in as a team and something to look forward to and the goal we're trying to accomplish.  I've just got to be the best version of what this team needs.  I think I'm doing a good job at doing that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT