NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: WARRIORS VS SPURS
May 19, 2017
Kawhi Leonard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How's your ankle feeling?
KAWHI LEONARD: It's getting better.  Just got to keep waiting day-to-day.
Q. Have you been able to practice and run on it?
KAWHI LEONARD: I've been at practice, just watching and things.  But just a lot of treatment.
Q. I know you're officially listed as questionable, but do you think you'll be ready?
KAWHI LEONARD: Just day-to-day, really, see how it feels tomorrow.
Q. How much input do you have on whether you want to play or not?
KAWHI LEONARD: A lot of input.  If I feel good, I'm going to play.
Q. What is the thing that's most difficult right now, Kawhi, for you?
KAWHI LEONARD: Just being able to get my ankle healthy for my team and being ready to play.
Q. Is it a push off?  Is there one thing that kind of gives you a little bit more pain than something else?
KAWHI LEONARD: No.
Q. You described your ankle as extremely painful after Game 1.  What is your pain level at right now?
KAWHI LEONARD: I'm not sure.  I mean, it's still not ready, but I mean, it's just questionable for tomorrow.  I could be feeling way better.  So we'll see tomorrow.
Q. How much pain are you in right now?
KAWHI LEONARD: She just asked that question.
Q. I'm sorry, I couldn't hear you.  Has your thinking at all changed at all on whether the closeout by Pachulia was a dirty play or not?
KAWHI LEONARD: I'm just focused on getting healthy and getting ready to play for Game 3.  I'm not worried about that.
Q. What was it like for you to have to watch Game 2 from the hotel?
KAWHI LEONARD: It's frustrating.  You work all year to get to this point and not being able to help the team win a game or just being able to play is all very frustrating.
Q. You said you have a ton of input in terms of whether or not you play tomorrow.  Obviously, you're one of the most competitive players in the game.  How do you tow the line in terms of not pushing yourself and risking further injury or whether to go for it?
KAWHI LEONARD: Just seeing if I can run and at least be myself on the court.  Don't want to hobble around and shoot off-balance shots.  Just want to be able to push with both legs.  So, just that, really.
Q. What do you take the long view on, and could this threaten further down the road?
KAWHI LEONARD: Definitely.  But I mean, we're eight games away from the ultimate goal.  So, you know, that's just my mindset at the moment.  Just trying to get better.
Q. Is there a mental hurdle you need to get over, just kind of landing again?  When you go up and take that shot so you're not worrying about whether someone's foot is under there?
KAWHI LEONARD: No.  If I'm going to be like that, then that means I'm hurt and I shouldn't be playing.  It's just a mental mindset of going out there and just preparing myself to win the game, really.
Q. When you were watching the game, did you think it was just a matter of execution with the team or just their spirit was down?  What did you see?
KAWHI LEONARD: Our offense was a little stagnant at times.  Defense wasn't there.  They also got a lot of rebounds.  I mean, obviously their guys played great, but it's stuff that we can do to help ourselves either win a game or even make it close.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT