NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 17, 2017
Kawhi Leonard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  When you look around the league right now, Russell Westbrook and James Harden have been front runners for MVP.  You've been getting some buzz of late.  But the fact that you all didn't play on Team USA, do you find that odd that you guys now are the ones that are in the front for the MVP?  
KAWHI LEONARD: The people that didn't play?   
 Q.  Yeah.  
KAWHI LEONARD: I mean, I really never thought of it that way, but those guys are playing amazing basketball out there.  They're carrying their teams every night.  I mean, it's just fun to watch them.   
 Q.  Do you feel like you should be in that competition, or do you not really get concerned?  
KAWHI LEONARD: I don't get too concerned about it.  I don't read the articles or watch what's going on.  I'm just focusing on the Spurs and myself and seeing what I can do to help position us for a playoff run.   
 Q.  What's your definition of an NBA MVP?  
KAWHI LEONARD: Those guys.  I mean, they carry their team every night, winning games, giving something the fans want to see.  I just think that's it.  It's precision in what you're doing every night.   
 Q.  Do you think the Spurs need to do anything at the trade deadline to be more competitive?  
KAWHI LEONARD: No, I think we're doing good right now.  It's all about team chemistry.  You've always got to figure out the best way for you and your team, but I think we're doing a good job right now.  You can talk to the front office and see what they're doing, but right now I feel like we're doing good.   
 Q.  Giannis Antetokounmpo being an All-Star for the first time.  What are you seeing?  
KAWHI LEONARD: Good player.  Brings it every night in every aspect for his team, rebounding, points, passing.  Just the whole focal point for that team.  He's long, athletic.  This dude does everything on the floor.   
 Q.  (inaudible)?  
KAWHI LEONARD: That's not for me to know, not for me to answer.  It's for the coaches and players and media to figure that out.   
 Q.  Kawhi, where do you come down in the whole thing on the intersection of sports and politics?  Obviously, this game was moved here for political reasons.  Where do you fall in that conversation?  
KAWHI LEONARD: I just go with what's on the schedule.  Whatever helps everybody to be happy.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT