NBA FINALS: HEAT v SPURS
June 11, 2014
Kawhi Leonard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What's the last 12 hours been like for you, Kawhi?   Have you heard from him after your big Game 3?   What's the response been? 
KAWHI LEONARD:   No, I keep a small circle, so just the people that I usually talk to almost every day.

Q.   When was the last time you scored 29 points? 
KAWHI LEONARD:   Probably high school or college.

Q.   We looked it up.   It wasn't high school for you.   Do you happen to remember?   Does it jog your memory at all when it may have been? 
KAWHI LEONARD:   I don't know.   I've played so much basketball.   I don't know.   I got pretty close in college, I think, and in the NBA, also.   But I don't remember.

Q.   You're coming into a team like this a few years back and got guys like Duncan and Manu, is it more a sense of just trying to fit in?   If you haven't had a big scoring game, is it because the opportunities are right there and already an established pecking order?   How did you approach that the last couple years? 
KAWHI LEONARD:   The last couple games? 

Q.   The last couple years.   Are you trying to fit in or being more assertive? 
KAWHI LEONARD:   I came in during the lockout year, so I really didn't know my teammates well or the head coach, so I was learning on the fly in games.   I didn't really know the players until about the end of the year.   So just trying to find my spots on the floor and see, like you said, where I could fit in or where I could be aggressive at.

Q.   Were you always kind of aware of the fact that you have these three future Hall of Famers around you, so you're not going to be necessarily the one to try to take the lead because of who you're playing with? 
KAWHI LEONARD:   Most definitely.   When I first got drafted by the Spurs, I knew who I was playing with and I knew what type of system they played.   So I just knew I wasn't going to get the ball right away or just be a focal point with these great players on the team.   But now I just try to play my game and go out there and be aggressive.

Q.   Is it fair to say that the first two games you were concentrating more on maybe defense, and then last night you were more aggressive offensively and made that a priority? 
KAWHI LEONARD:   No, I mean, I was focused on both ends the first two games.   I just got in some foul trouble.   Wasn't really able to get into a rhythm, and Heat did a good job by playing aggressive on defense.   I just made shots last minute.

Q.   What gives you more satisfaction?   Something on the offensive end or defensive end? 
KAWHI LEONARD:   Oh, I just like to play a complete, overall game, really.   That's what I really try to do when I'm on the floor to help the team win. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT