NBA FINALS: SPURS v HEAT
June 19, 2013
Kawhi Leonard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How mentally tired are you and how do you get it back?   
KAWHI LEONARD:   My heart is just into the game.   I'm just mentally preparing for Game 7.   Just not thinking about it, I guess.   Just preparing for Game 7.   That's how you get over it.   
   
 Q.   Did any of your teammates talk to you after the game about the foul shot or anything like that?   
KAWHI LEONARD:   No, not at all.   
   
 Q.   When LeBron goes down to the post, what's your strategy as far as defending him?   
KAWHI LEONARD:   Just trying to get him out of the comfort zone.   You know, just playing hard.   Trying to contest his shot, making it hard for him out there.   
   
 Q.   Did he seem to have a different focus?   In that fourth quarter it seemed like he was trying to go down there.   
KAWHI LEONARD:   He had been going down there the whole game.   Probably went through and started really paying attention to it in the fourth because it was a critical situation.   He's been doing it the whole game, the whole series.   
   
 Q.   There's obviously a lot of talk about last night, what a great game it was in terms of NBA Finals history.   It's been a crazy series.   What are you going to remember most about this series, win or lose?   And what are the experiences you're going to take from it?   
KAWHI LEONARD:   Just being 21, being able to be here so young.   Just about winning, how you can get here and the mistakes you can make.   Just going to make me a better player as I move forward.   
   
 Q.   Kawhi, the free throw you missed at the end, has that been haunting you or have you been able to forget about it?   
KAWHI LEONARD:   Not at all.   I don't feel like that lost us the game.   Like I said, we had chances to get rebounds, and we just didn't make it‑‑ get the rebounds.   
   
 Q.   Danny Green was saying he hadn't really been watching the TV, trying to avoid seeing the stuff.   Is that the way you've been doing it or have you been watching the TV?   
KAWHI LEONARD:   I haven't really watched games the whole season.   
   
 Q.   Like SportsCenter, highlights?   
KAWHI LEONARD:   I've been avoiding it the whole season.   I don't watch SportsCenter.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT