NBA FINALS: SPURS v HEAT
June 8, 2013
Kawhi Leonard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible).   
KAWHI LEONARD:   Just the same.   Buying in as a team to stop them and just get defensive stops.   Just help each other out on the back side and just have a lot of shifts.   
   
 Q.   How much are you comfortable for the game for tomorrow?   
KAWHI LEONARD:   Say what?   
   
 Q.   How much will you be comfortable for the game tomorrow?   
KAWHI LEONARD:   How comfortable?   I'm going to feel good tomorrow playing another game.   Just another challenge to go out there and try to compete and win.   
   
 Q.   Kawhi, what sorts of challenges are there when you have someone like Tony‑‑ I don't know how much you defended him in the practice last year.   He's so short but obviously his ability to get his running jumpshot off or his floater off.   How difficult is that to defend even if you're a defender like yourself, when someone is able to do that without you being able to react quickly to stop him?   
KAWHI LEONARD:   I mean, I don't know.   I never tried to guard Tony and shut him down.   But I guess it's difficult.   He's been doing it all season.   Nobody hasn't really stopped him.   I guess it's a hard thing to do.   
   
 Q.   You already won one.   I assume you don't want to stop.   What's the push?   
KAWHI LEONARD:   The push is basically it's The Finals.   You did get one game, but just getting that one game doesn't mean you're going to win all your games at home.   So you got to make sure you go into every game with the same mindset this is the only game you're going to play, and just compete your hardest.   
   
 Q.   What was the film session like today?   
KAWHI LEONARD:   It was short and quick.   Just emphasizing some of the things we did bad, and we could play a lot better than what we did in the first game.   
   
 Q.   What do you expect different from LeBron tomorrow?   
KAWHI LEONARD:   What do I expect?   I don't know.   He's going to come out aggressive and try to get a win and protect his home floor.   He's going to do whatever it takes to get a win.   
   
 Q.   Do you expect him to take maybe more control, like he's done after losses in the past?   
KAWHI LEONARD:   Pretty sure.   Like I say, he's going to do whatever it takes to win the game.   If it's making the extra pass or creating the extra shot for himself or just getting an extra step.  
   
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT