NBA FINALS: SPURS v HEAT
June 7, 2013
Kawhi Leonard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What do you feel was effective last night in guarding LeBron?   
KAWHI LEONARD:   I don't know.   He still had a great game, so just got to come out next game a little more focused and try to make it tough for him.   
   
 Q.   Did Pop talk to you about trying to stay focused on making him work and how not to get discouraged if he does produce?   
KAWHI LEONARD:   A little bit.   We're just‑‑ it's a team thing really just to try to stop the Miami Heat.   LeBron still had a good game, like I said, and myself I'm not going to be discouraged if he makes a shot.   That's what he's been doing all season.   
   
 Q.   What physically helps you against him?   Is it your length?   Is it your strength?   What do you think it is?   
KAWHI LEONARD:   Just probably being quick with my feet and having just long hands and long arms.   
   
 Q.   Most people think you did a pretty good job overall on him last night.   You had help.   He shot 7‑for‑16.   Do you feel you did a pretty solid job?   
KAWHI LEONARD:   I think I did all right.   We won the game.   But he still had a great game.   Had a triple‑double.   He found his teammates shots and he knocked down shots.   
   
 Q.   Did he seemed fatigued in the fourth?   Doing all that rebounding and all that kind of stuff coming off a seven‑game series.   Did he seem fatigued to you?   
KAWHI LEONARD:   Not to me.   He was still aggressive and was ready to play.   He was getting rebounds on defense and making shots.   
   
 Q.   Is it the idea to load up on him to get the ball out of his hands as much as possible?   
KAWHI LEONARD:   I don't know.   When he gets a lot of assists, the team usually wins the game.   I don't know.   He had a good game.   I still think he did.   He passed the ball well.   That's what he does for the team.   I don't think we're going to accept that.   
   
 Q.   Did that game feel any different to you?   You guys are so consistent, but did it feel any different to be on that level stage knowing you're playing for a championship now?   
KAWHI LEONARD:   No, it felt the same as any other game.   Our just competing and more focused in the game.   It felt the same.   It was five on five.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT