NBA FINALS: SPURS v HEAT
June 5, 2013
Kawhi Leonard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  KAWHI LEONARD:   It's another game.   I don't think it's going to be any different.   Everybody wants to compete to win a championship.   People are competing at their highest level. 

Q.   Do you need to study much tape of LeBron the last couple of days or have you seen so much of him because he's on TV so much that there's not such a great need? 
KAWHI LEONARD:   We're still going to watch tape.   I don't watch TV much.   I still want to see what he does on the floor and see what I can do to help defend him. 

Q.   What kind of advice have Tim Duncan and those guys been giving you about The Finals? 
KAWHI LEONARD:   We really haven't talked much.   They know what they're going to do and what I should do on the floor.   Just really go out and compete.   Play our hardest.   Don't let nothing really get to you.   Relax and play basketball. 

Q.   Have you talked to anyone who has defended LeBron a lot?   Do you have any friends in the league who have given you any tips? 
KAWHI LEONARD:   No. 

Q.   Will you study at all what Paul George did on him in the Indiana series and Jimmy Butler in the Chicago series?   Both made him work.   Is that something you would look at tape of? 
KAWHI LEONARD:   They probably had a different team game plan for him on defense.   I'm going to be focused on what our game plan is. 

Q.   One last thing on LeBron:   Obviously, being in The Finals is the most exciting thing, but guarding the best player, does that add anything extra to you to the challenge which you relish? 
KAWHI LEONARD:   Yeah.   I would rather guard the best guy on the floor.   I want to get better myself.   Guarding him is going to make me a better player.   I accept the challenge to go out there and play. 

Q.   What did it mean to you that such an important organization targeted you? 
KAWHI LEONARD:   It meant a lot.   I just knew that they seen me play a lot.   They liked game I had.   They wanted to see me develop as a player in the NBA (Indiscernible).

Q.   (Inaudible). 
KAWHI LEONARD:   I don't know.   I came in, didn't really know too much about the team.   There was a lot I had to learn on the fly.   It took me a lot of hard work and focus to get better (indiscernible).   This is what I want to do, in The Finals and winning.   That's what the coaches demand.   They know what they want and how to get the players' ear. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT