LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 23, 2020
Kawhi Leonard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Mavericks 135, Clippers 133 (OT)
Q. Looking ahead, what are you frustrated most about where this game was lost?
KAWHI LEONARD:   You know, obviously in that third quarter, I think it was about 12-, 14-point swing, I'm not sure.  And the beginning of that second quarter, really, had no energy.  Felt like we could have attacked the basket a little bit better.
Q. Doc said that you're normally a mentally tough team but today you were emotionally weak.  Do you agree with what he's saying?  Did you see any points emotionally where you guys could have been tougher?
KAWHI LEONARD:   Yeah, obviously closing out that second quarter and the beginning of the third, you know, we -- like I said, we didn't have any energy, and, you know, easy plays they were making on the offensive end, just getting easy baskets.
Q. On that last play there, was the game plan to switch that action, or was it something you were trying to prevent?  What did you kind of see there when Luka got the ball?
KAWHI LEONARD:   Yeah, we switched.  That was the game plan.  He's a great player, made a great shot.  Got to his spot and made it.
Q. How important is it for you guys that PG gets going?  And is there anything as a teammate that you tell a guy who is going through a scoring funk like this?
KAWHI LEONARD:   Just tell him to keep going.  His time is coming.  He had some easy looks tonight.  Everybody did, but it's not his fault.  We were up big in the second quarter and I think everybody has a part in winning the basketball game.
Q. Doc said that the game -- he said it multiple times -- you guys are really far away from what you've shown you can be.  Why do you think it's taken so long for you guys to show who you guys really can be?
KAWHI LEONARD:   We're a new team, you know what I mean?  New guys, new system and it takes time.  But we're right there.  We're not giving up.  And we've got fight in us.
Q. You play against superstars like LeBron James and Kevin Durant.  What is it like playing against Luka Doncic at 21 years old?  Do you see him on that level?  How good is Luka Doncic when you play against him, defending him?
KAWHI LEONARD:   He had a triple-double tonight.  Scored the game winner.  He's playing amazing basketball.
Q. I know you're personally known as kind of being a cool player and even-keeled.  Do you get frustrated after games like this or do you instantly put it out of your mind once the game is over?
KAWHI LEONARD:   It's frustrating to see where we made mistakes at.  You know what I mean?  But it's something to learn from.  We've still got two games and we're looking at a best-of-three right now.  We've got time.  We'll just look at the film and see what we can do better.
Q. Doc mentioned that even without Porzingis they shoot 50 percent today.  Where do you see between now and Game 5 the defense has to tighten up the most, on individual defense?
KAWHI LEONARD:   I think a lot of times we have a lot of miscommunication and giving them easy baskets out there.  But they're doing a great job within their offense and getting looks, starting with Luka, getting his guys open shots and him making his shots.
And you've got to give them credit.  They fought back in the game tonight.  And our defense was pretty good, what, for the first 20 minutes.  And kind of went downhill.  And it came back up when the game got tight.  Just gotta play 48, that's it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT