LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 19, 2020
Kawhi Leonard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  Mavericks 127, Clippers 114
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Kawhi.
 Q. There were multiple times in this game when the comeback was happening, you were getting close, yet Dallas was still able to pull away.  What went into the inability to close out some of these comebacks?
 KAWHI LEONARD:   Just give Dallas credit.  They played hard tonight.  They're the reason why we didn't come back.  They knocked down big shots.  When we had our runs, got to the free-throw line.  That's what it was, them playing good defense.
 Q. After Game 1 Doc mentioned you being disciplined defensively in your pick'n roll.  How do you feel you did tonight in pick'n roll?
 KAWHI LEONARD:   I think it was okay.  I got to look at the film.  It was a lot of one-on-one, just getting by us, getting easy layups.  I feel no weak side there.  Just not being too disciplined in those aspects of those one-on-one situations.
 Fouling jump shooters too much, letting them get by on easy drives.  That's what I feel.  Watch film to see what happened.
 Q. Earlier in the season one of the things you said is this team is going to have to endure tough losses.  Is this a game where you kind of need this in terms of the pursuit of Playoffs and Championship, the adversity, the loss, to build championship habits moving forward?
 KAWHI LEONARD:   I mean, no one ever wants to lose.  Obviously it's the Playoffs.  Every moment is a learning moment, to learn from mistakes, even learn from what you did good.
 I mean, yeah, right now it's a loss.  We got to get through that adversity, step up for the test.
 Q. (Question about not having Pat against Mavericks.)
 KAWHI LEONARD:   He's a very important player, guarding, energy, being a point guard, calling sets, seeing what's on the floor.
 I mean, everybody plays a big role.  Being in and out of the lineup, it can affect the chemistry.  We should be a team that a man go down a man steps up.  That's what we got to do.
 Q. Luka broke a record tonight.  Is there an answer to his play?
 KAWHI LEONARD:   You said he broke a record.  What record?
 Q. Tonight, he can carry Dallas.  Is there an answer to his play?
 KAWHI LEONARD:   Just got to stay focused, stay locked in on matchups.  Just play good team defense on him.  That's all you can do.  He's a great player.  All you can do is try to contest his shot, don't get him easy looks.
 THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, Kawhi.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT