NAVISTAR LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY MAXXFORCE
September 25, 2008
Jill McGill
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN: Let's go through your card first. You started on 10, so first birdie was 11.   
 JILL McGILL: Okay. 11 I hit a 7-iron to 30 feet.   
 14, pitching wedge to three feet.   
 15, wedge to six feet.   
 3, 7-iron to ten feet.   
 5, 9-iron to 25 feet. 6, the par 5 off the back of the green, I'm glad it went in. 6 was 6-iron to ten feet.   
 8, hybrid to 20-some feet, 2-putt.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Great round, you finished up with a 65, you're the clubhouse leader. 65, two shots off your career low and two shots off the tournament record. Impressive round especially with a little bit of wind out there. If you would, just take us through your round and how you played today.   
 JILL McGILL: We had really good conditions for the front nine. I would say the wind really was not a factor. When we got to the back side, it picked up a little bit and halfway through the back side it switched directions on us. So as long as you know your directional compass, I think you're all right out there.   
 I started off with a solid par on the first hole. Made a really good putt on No. 11 to get a little momentum.   
 And I missed one fairway all day on hole No. 1, which is a tough driving hole down into the wind up near the bunker on the right-hand side and really did not have a shot to the green, and hit my approach shot to about 12 feet. And to make that putt really helped the momentum stay with me.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Putting was pretty solid today. I understand you recently got a new putter.  
 JILL McGILL: It felt legally good. I stuck a new putter in my bag. I was trying two different putters from the same company, Rossa (ph), one I put in my bag, I probably hit ten putts with yesterday. Both of them are very similar, the way that they look up, and I felt very comfortable over the setup.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Can you take us through your career, how you feel you've been playing and anything you've been working on specifically?   
 JILL McGILL: Well, my year started off in Hawaii. It was just okay. I had come from Australia, which was just okay. I had a good finish in Mexico City, which was nice to putt on the board. I think I was either third or tied for third. I hit a lull but feel like I've been working hard on my game, not only physically but mentally.   
 I just haven't been able to relax out there all year. It seems like I just keep on trying too hard. And I've been working with a guy at home, Dr. George Pratt, on the mental side of the game and mostly helping to relax. Nothing about really visualizing the shots or anything golf-specific. It's just an overall feeling of being able to control your emotions and being in a really good place.   
 And today, a lot of people have said my swing came together, my putting came together. Today I was just calm, cool, collected and having a good time and enjoying myself. I know that's how I want to play.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Just talk about your final hole, you just left that birdie putt a few inches short. How sweet would that have been to finish on that one.  
 JILL McGILL: Well, it would have been great to finish with that. Unfortunately I didn't hit as good of a wedge in there as I would liked to have. These greens are really fast, and if you get above the hole, you always hear in the Pro-Am, "Oh, never up, never in." But with those downhills, dead in the jar, short, I'll take it. It's much better than coming back from six feet.   
  
  Q. Who is Dr. Pratt?  
 JILL McGILL: Actually you can look him up online. He has a couple of books out. He plays at one of the clubs I play in San Diego, and he's just a really, really nice man. He's a psychologist but he's not sports-specific. He's helped people in sports, baseball, football, golf. I guess a lot of members go to him.   
 But he has some pretty interesting things, and his stuff makes sense.   
  
  Q. What type of stuff is it?  
 JILL McGILL: It's a lot of positive thinking. It's a lot of not visualizing golf-specific, but maybe visualizing things that are bothering you and using a visual to get rid of that sort of thing.   
 Sometimes I picture blowing it up with TNT and other times putting it in a balloon and having it float away. Depends on where you are and what you're feeling inside.   
 But he -- you know, I wish everybody could feel the way that I felt today because it's just -- it's just a good way to be. Just happy, you're trying to do what you do and if it doesn't work out, it doesn't work out and you just move on to the next thing; where I just get caught up in so many of the minutia details, and it's just not worth the time or effort.   
  
  Q. (What was the key for you today)?  
 JILL McGILL: Well, you know, you always try to plot your way around the golf course, and I think the more you think about the positives and what you're trying to achieve, rather than you don't want to make a bogey, like today, it just happens.   
 Like I said, making that 12-footer on the first hole definitely was huge for my momentum. But at the same time, I don't feel like I would have crumbled it had it not have gone in. Just, okay, what happened on the drive; I wasn't as aggressive and one of the few them today that I wasn't thinking really positively about what I wanted to happen and lo and behold, ended up near the bunkers.   
 So that just proves the fact of positive thinking.   
  
  Q. (No mic).  
 JILL McGILL: There was like one tree. (Laughter).  
 The greens are huge. It's pertinent to be on the correct level of the greens or else your lag putting better be really, really good.  
 That's one thing that helped me today, too, my husband/caddie, Patrick, and I just thought our way around the golf course as well. And it's, okay, this is the optimal shot of where you want to be.   
 You know, it's a good golf course. You have a couple of decisions to make on the tee, and the birdie I made on No. 5, a lot of girls are hitting driver off that and Patrick said I can't reach it in two, anyway, so let's just take the trouble out, and made a 25-footer.   
 So I would say, yeah, the lack of trees really, and huge greens. You know, if you're driving the ball well, you're going to give yourself chances.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: All right, Jill, thanks so much.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT