JOHN Q. HAMMONS HOTEL CLASSIC
September 8, 2006
Jill McGill
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Jill, thank you for coming in.  Four under.  Talk about your day.
JILL McGILL:  I don't want to jinx myself, but it was a fairly easy day.  I kept it out of trouble.  I hit every fairway, and I missed one green because I got a bad bounce and it went over.

If you can do that and the speed on your putt is good, it makes life a whole lot easier for you.

Q.  Can we go over your scorecard?
JILL McGILL:  Sure.  I birdied No. 2 with a 7 iron from about 8 feet.

No. 5, I hit pitching wedge; made about a 30 footer which is a bonus.

THE MODERATOR:  Can you do the Bogey on 3?
JILL McGILL:  Oh, yeah.  I hit the fairway and hit an 8 iron on the very left part of that green and 3 putted about 8 feet.  It was just very slick.

THE MODERATOR:  Okay.  Birdie on 7.
JILL McGILL:  Birdie on 7, I hit 8 iron to 20 feet.

THE MODERATOR:  And birdie on 14.
JILL McGILL:  Birdie on 14, I hit a sand wedge to about 12 feet.

THE MODERATOR:  Okay.  And then birdie on 18.
JILL McGILL:  I hit 8 iron to about 6 inches.

THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Jill?

Q.  Do you look at the scoreboard much during the course of the competition?
JILL McGILL:  I try not to look at the scoreboard, but occasionally you can't help it if gets in your line of vision.

Q.  (Inaudible).
JILL McGILL:  Well, it's nothing new.  You expect to see it there, so it doesn't come as a big shock.

Q.  How do you think the course fits your game?
JILL McGILL:  I think it suits my game pretty good.  If you come in with your irons and you have a higher trajectory then it is beneficial because there is a lot of, you know, undulation in these greens.

If you can zone it in and make it kind of like separate greens within the green and have that control, you're going to give you self better opportunities to make birdies.

Whereas any 35 footer you have on any of these greens is going to be a pretty tough putt speed wise.

Q.  (Inaudible).
JILL McGILL:  I'm in shock.  But, I just been working on a couple of things.  I mean, it feels really good.  My caddie and I were laughing on 17.  We were talking earlier this week, the funny thing about golf is you can hit what you feel is the perfect shot, what you visualize and it feels exactly how you imagined it, and it doesn't turn out nearly as good as one that you hit in or you skank up there and end up taping it in and.

That's what happened on 17.  That was probably my best swing of the day, exactly where I wanted to hit it.  Must have caught the fringe or something and got a nasty kick left and over the green.  That's the game of golf.  You go and find it and hit it again.

Q.  Are the greens pretty (Inaudible).
JILL McGILL:  Hitting the fairways on this golf course is a necessity, because the rough is not very pleasant to be in.  Growing up in Colorado and living in California now, we don't have the Bermuda ball eating grass where it's hard to find even if you're a couple feet off the fairway.  It's not really deep, it just sinks down into it.  It makes it very difficult and very unpredictable what's going happen.

Q.  (Inaudible).
JILL McGILL:  Yeah, I have.

Q.  Two years ago, or just feel very consistent (Inaudible)?
JILL McGILL:  Well, this is the clearest mind I've had in the last three years playing this golf course.  The first thing I said to my caddie was it was a smart round of golf.  You plot your way around.  There was a few holes where if you try to take off too much you definitely are bringing trouble into play.

If you feel confident in what you're doing, for example, 17, where they have our tee, I hit 3 wood off the tee and still had 5 iron in, which is a challenging shot with the bunkers and the water.  The saving grace is that green is pitched back to front.  So you're probably going to    your ball is going to hold on the green fairly well.

If you hit driver you have to hit the perfect shot, and I think you're going to bring more trouble into play than not.

Q.  (Inaudible).
JILL McGILL:  I don't think for the longer hitters it is.  Like I said, I hit a 3 wood today and I had 5 iron in.  People who hit it a little bit longer than I do are going to get down there where they ave 6  or 7 iron in with hitting 3 wood.

So why would you bring any of those trees into play, or that rough, unless you've got a really, really nicely controlled fade.

Q.  Looking at the leaderboard, Annika is three shots ahead of everybody.  Is that kind of what people were expecting?
JILL McGILL:  She's having a great round too.  I would venture to say she's probably hit a lot of fairways and greens and probably made a handful of 20 footers and hit it close on the Par 5s.  That's would be my guess on Annika's game.

When she's playing well she plays really well.  And as we saw last week, she's putting really well.  That's huge out here.  You can hit the ball as well as you want, but if you don't make any 15  or 20 footers, you're going to be at 2 under or 1 under or even or whatever it is.

Q.  (Inaudible).
JILL McGILL:  I don't necessarily consider it reeling her in as much as players stepping up to the plate to challenge her.  It's doable.  We have a lot of depth on the Tour and a lot of good players that have the ability to put up a challenge for her.

That's taking nothing away from her game whatsoever.  She's obviously proven herself year in and year out.

Q.  The last two years, with a handful of players under par at the end of the tournament, what makes Cedar Ridge so different than the other courses you see yearly on tour?
JILL McGILL:  I think I answered that in that if you don't hit the fairways it's very penal.  If you don't have a wedge game to save yourself then you're going to be making bogies.  If you hit the fairway you have a chance on the making birdie.

Q.  (Inaudible).
JILL McGILL:  I like it.  It suits my game a little better, particularly, if I've driving it straight of the tee.  Yeah, I mean this is a great golf course.  There is a as reason why a lot of the top players are here.  Not only does the tournament do a really great job putting it on but it's a really good golf course.  And the facility is great; the town is great.  To me it's one of the best stops on tour.  A lot of that has to do with the course and the shape that the course is in.

THE MODERATOR:  Any other questions.  Thank you, Jill.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT