WENDY'S CHAMPIONSHIP FOR CHILDREN
August 8, 2003
Jill McGill
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR: Can you tell us what your thoughts are, how you're feeling, and we'll take questions.

JILL MCGILL: I'm glad I had the last two weeks off because I didn't qualify for the events, spent some time in San Diego out in the ocean a little bit and worked on my game.  I'm glad to see some progress has been made.

MODERATOR:  Questions?


Q.  Can you talk about what fundamentally you did best today and what was the best part of your game today?

JILL MCGILL: Today, my iron play was the best part.  I hit some really good irons, and I didn't make any huge mistakes.  I wasn't driving the ball that well.  Luckily these fairways are pretty generous, and it gives you a little bit of room for error, and the greens are very receptive.  If you're hitting good iron shots in there, you're going to have some chances.


Q.  How wet was it?

JILL MCGILL: Wet enough where the rules officials definitely made the right call. 


Q.  You want to talk about the excitement of being on the leaderboard at least right now in the 54-hole tournament?

JILL MCGILL: I'm trying not to think about it that much.  I think that mentality for me works against me.  I'm really trying to rechange my focus and not get too excited or too upset and just go and do like I feel like I can do, and today I did it.  Hopefully, tomorrow and Sunday I'll be able to do the same thing.


Q.  With a 54-hole tournament, it's a little reassuring to know you got off to a good start?

JILL MCGILL: It's always nice to get off to a good start on a three-day tournament, because you don't have 54 holes to make it up if you shoot poorly the first day.  I had a great draw this morning.  I think that the scoring will be easier in the morning than it will be in the afternoon.  I'm sure somebody will prove me wrong.  My guess is, after today, 8 under will be leading, because the greens are so receptive, but the morning was definitely the better draw.


Q.  You mentioned that your iron play was something that you were happy with today.  That two weeks off that you had, did you work a lot on the iron play, or what else did you work on?

JILL MCGILL: I worked on diffusing a little bit.  I didn't really start practicing until really Thursday or Friday where I came back out there, and I was having so much fun in San Diego and enjoying myself so much, I decided I needed get out of Dodge and go down to Florida where I wouldn't have any distractions and practice down there. 

So, I did that, and it showed up in my iron game today.  My driving was very subpar, but you can make up for it down here.


Q.  Is that usually the case with you; that you would take time off and not beat balls all the time but still play well?

JILL MCGILL: It used to be, but in the last year and a half, I was going to try to turn myself into a grinder.  But finding myself so far down on the money left, that's not working for me either.  I'm working on finding that balance.  I really enjoy a lot of things outside of golf, and it's frustrating to me that I can't do it all.  So, when I went home, I went to the horse track, took out my surfboard a couple times, went to the beach.  It was great. 

Actually, there are these guys from USC in the horse business, and four years ago they had this filly, and they're huge golfers, and the horse's father's name is Distinguished Pro or Distinctive Pro, and it was in the golf vocabulary.  And so they were looking to continue that.  They named the filly Jill McGill.  We got to watch her race in DelMar.  She stunk it up, but it was fun.


Q.  Maybe it should have taken more time off like you did?

JILL MCGILL: It was kind of ironic because the owners were telling me that the horse, although she showed great potential, and I'm sitting here thinking, where is this going because I can see it very parallel to my life; great potential, and she didn't just want to run.  She couldn't figure out how to run.  Now she's four years old, which is probably eight or nine in horse years.  Now she's starting to run.  Maybe I can take a cue from her and figure out what to do.


Q.  The Michelob in 2001 and now, do you see any parallels in your game, and are you feeling the best about your game coming into this tournament and after today?

JILL MCGILL: I feel like I'm  -- it's kind of ironic that I'm more in control of my game now, and unfortunately I'm controlling it in the wrong way, whereas in 2001, I've always kind of played golf hoping the ball would go where I wanted it to go and making that transition to setting up over the ball and saying I'm going right at the flag even though there is trouble and committing to that and expecting it to go there.  I think that's really kind of what I have been struggling with, and I'm just kind of getting used to it.

MODERATOR:  Can you go over your score card with us. 

(Score card done.)

MODERATOR:  Any more questions? 

All right.  Thank you.

JILL MCGILL: Thank you. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT