U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 6, 2002
Jill McGill
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.  Little bit of an adventure out there today?
JILL McGILL:   It was, yeah.
I tell you what, that No. 8, I am going to hit that fairway tomorrow.  I'm 0-for-3, two bogeys, and a struggle to get it up-and-down today.  Glad to get out of there with a par. 
No. 13, unfortunately, I just came a little inside out on it and pushed it out to the right and got myself into an unplayable situation.  Luckily it was between myself and the pin, I was able to drop on the path instead of going back to the tee box which is a huge advantage.  I don't think it's a very easy driving hole. 
So, you know, rolled in that 15-footer for bogey which cut my momentum a little bit, and glad about that. 

Q.  How do you feel about your position heading into tomorrow?
JILL McGILL:   I am very pleased with it.  I wish I could have saved that last shot on 18.  Unfortunately, I was just thinking about making the putt and I got a little goosey on it and looked up early and pulled it left.  It would have been a nice one to save, coming in under par for the three days. 
But overall, I'm pleased.  I feel like I've been grinding it out, and I'm sure I've taken a little time out there, but I'm just really trying to focus on my shots and my targets and really trying to be aggressive and commit to what I'm trying to do.

Q.  You're in contention, but kind of a dark horse going in.  Do you like that underdog role?
JILL McGILL:   I don't know, I haven't been it.  I'm looking forward to tomorrow.  I think it's going to be great.  I think this is what I needed for my game, kind of a make-or-break point to come out and put myself in contention in a tournament like this. 
I feel like I'm working hard and my game is coming together and I'm starting to come together and I'm starting to use my creativity and feel, rather than mechanics out there, just let things happen for myself.  Just go out there and do the best I can.  That's all I can do. 

Q.  Do you feel the crowd pulling for you? 
JILL McGILL:   The crowd out here has been fabulous.  Everywhere you go they are yelling out your name and clapping for you.  I think that all of the players would agree with me that the crowds here in Kansas and Hutchinson, people coming from all over to support us, we've really enjoyed it.  Michele and I were walking down the first tee and comments were like, "Wouldn't it be great if our tournaments were like this every single week."  It's easy to get pumped up.  It's great to play in front of people that know what you're doing and enjoy what you're doing and really getting into it. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
JILL McGILL:   You know, I've got the long legs to jump over the rose garden.  It's kind of an easy thing for me to do. 

Q.  At one point you were within one shot, were you wondering what Juli and Annika were doing?
JILL McGILL:   I was trying to focus on what I was doing on my game.  I had a feeling nobody was making a huge move.  It was tough out there.  Where these pins are, you have to have it in the right position.  Even then, reading the greens I think is a little bit tricky and you have to hit the putts with just the right speed.  We saw Michele with a couple of them, just a little bit of speed and it's off.  It's hard to roll those putts in, especially in a U.S. Open situation. 
I was never aware of exactly where I stood.  I made it a point not to look at the leaderboard.  In my golf game, I'm just trying to focus on what I'm doing out there.  And if it's go enough, it's good enough.  And if not, I'm just tied of comparing myself to where other people are.  I'm just setting my standards for myself and that's really what I was trying to focus on.

Q.  What was your confidence like, because it's not been such a great year?
JILL McGILL:   I'm not sure if it's a matter of confidence or having confidence or not having confidence.  I think it's a matter of just finally faking a deep breath and going out there and doing what I know I can do. 
I have made two cuts in a row, which was a big feat for me so far this year.  I know that I can do it.  I've got a great support team with my coach, Randy Peterson, who has worked hard with me; and my caddie, Adam Hayes, he's done a great job for me out there; and Jay Brunsay (ph), I've been working him on sports psychology and just focusing and getting back to me playing the game of golf.  I think that's been helpful this week. 

Q.  How would you feel if somebody were to ask Annika or Juli, "where's Jill" (on the leaderboard)? 
JILL McGILL:   That would be great.  I would love to be in that position all the time.  Hopefully, I can use these last three days and hopefully tomorrow as a stepping stone to be there all the time.  I know that I can do it, if I just get out of my own way. 





End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT