RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 23, 2016
Steve Wheatcroft
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I guess that bogey at the 15th irritated you a little bit; you played the last three holes in 4-under par.
STEVE WHEATCROFT: Yeah, it definitely irritated me.  Thought I pretty good 9-iron.  We got fooled by the wind.  It was just going straight right-to-left and took my ball into a bad spot.  I had about 40 feet for birdie, and then I had about 50 feet for par.
I obviously did not play enough break on that and it fooled me.  But I knew those last three were going to be gettable, and I just hit a phenomenal shot on 17.  One of the best swings of the day.  Hit it in to six feet and the 40-footer on the last hole will make lunch taste great.
Q. Your thoughts going into the final round?
STEVE WHEATCROFT: I'm excited.  I know I've been playing really well.  My swing has really been clicking the last few weeks.  I've had a miserable year.  I just haven't been able to put anything together.  I made some swing changes about a month ago or two weeks ago in Alabama, so I know it's coming.
I'm just excited.  I just want to get out there and keep hitting shots.  I controlled my golf ball beautifully and hopefully I can do the same thing tomorrow.
Q. A great way to finish up a round.  Tremendous playing out there.
STEVE WHEATCROFT: Thank you, yeah.  It's always nice to finish with an eagle.  That's twice I've done it this week.  Obviously thrilled.  I hit just a perfect 7-iron in there.  That's the exact shot I was trying to hit.  And I've had that putt in the past and I just remember it really snaps at the end.  I tried to play some extra break and poured it right in the middle.
Q. You shot the best round of anyone in three rounds so far.  Did you make any adjustments between the second round and today?
STEVE WHEATCROFT: No.  I shot 4-under the first day in really tough conditions and felt like about 8-under and yesterday I had good conditions and shot 5-over par.  If I missed a shot even a little bit yesterday, it ended up in a really bad spot.   Kept hitting the edges with putts.
Things didn't go my way, but I kept doing the same thing.  I know I've been playing very well lately.  By swinging the club great and went out there and tried to do my best.
Q. Any change in the conditions, or is it still just as fast as it was?
STEVE WHEATCROFT: No, it's just as firm and as fast.  We played in the morning, and it will be a little softer than it will be in the afternoon.  It's going to be baked out this afternoon.
They have done a good job of keeping it right on edge of what's fair and what's not fair.  The last groups of the day, it's going to be tough.  It's going to be really tough.  It's just hard to get to certain pins.  The pins you could get at this morning, you're not going to be able to get at this afternoon.  But those guys are great players, they will find a way to do it, I'm sure.
Q. 153 in the FedExCup, are you looking at that as we come down the stretch?
STEVE WHEATCROFT: Sure.  It's been a terrible year.  I've made a lot of cuts but I haven't finished better than 35th until a couple weeks ago.  I keep finishing between 35th and 70th.  I've made some changes to improve my ball-striking that are really paying off.  I finished fifth at Barracuda to give me a chance at that 150, 125 number.
Finished 20th last week in Alabama.  Just didn't get much out of the week, but it's coming together.  I'm starting to see a lot of solid shots.  Today is a perfect example.  I hit it as well as I've ever hit it, just shaping shots, trajectory, going with the driver.  I missed a couple of 6-footers and 3-putted twice.  So my ball-striking was really good.
Q. Anyone you look forward to playing with tomorrow in particular?
STEVE WHEATCROFT: No, not really.  Just somebody who wants to go out and have fun and have a good time.  Whoever I get, I get.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT