THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 12, 2016
Steve Wheatcroft
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Pretty happy with it, an afternoon 4-under?
STEVE WHEATCROFT: Yeah, very pleased.  I don't know what it was like in the morning, but I didn't see nine out there in the afternoon.
I played very well on the front nine.  I didn't get anything out of it.  Missed a lot of birdie putts.  Just had a hard time matching up the speed and line.
Definitely played pretty well on the back nine, starting on 11.  I got a bad break there and made par.
But after that, 4-under coming in, I'm very pleased with that.
Q. What was your mindset when you saw the scores out there?
STEVE WHEATCROFT: I thought it was going to be a birdiefest and I needed to make as many as I could out there.  I hit it solid on the front, just couldn't get the putts to fall.  Greens were getting a little bumpy especially late in the day they were really bumpy, but just got to stay patient, keep trying to make them.
Q. How much do you think this will change now the next day and then into the weekend?
STEVE WHEATCROFT: Hopefully, tomorrow I can get out there and they will be fairly receptive in the morning, kind of like those guys had this morning.  Wind will lay down a little bit.  Greens should be a little softer.
Hopefully, I can get after it, post a good number in the morning, and let them battle the wind and some bumpy greens in the afternoon.
Q. First time in this event, coming around 16, 17, did it feel any different than the two hundred times you played it?
STEVE WHEATCROFT: Yeah, definitely there's a few more people watching and some bigger consequences now.  Instead of a little $20 Nassau, now we got some big money on the line.
So definitely got the heart racing.  I hit a good 3-wood into 16, just short, and made a good 2-putt there.
And then 17, I hit it just right of the flag, a little safe play, but missed about a 15-footer behind it.
But pleased with those two shots, I missed about, I don't know, 7- or 8-footer on the last hole, I wish I would have gotten for birdie, but I'll take 4-under and we'll get after it tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT