QUICKEN LOANS NATIONAL
July 30, 2015
Steve Wheatcroft
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Steve, obviously a good round of golf.  I really thought you held things together.  You missed 7 greens, you were 7 for 7 scrambling.  STEVE WHEATCROFT: Yeah, I definitely -- I worked hard on the putting.  My caddy took a picture the other day when I was putting.  I've been having a hard time of lining the putter up.  I noticed something that kind of clicked right away.  Went to the putting green, worked on it.  Sure enough that was it.  I was hoping it was going to carryover to the 1st Round.   Q.  23 putts in this opening round including 116 feet of putts.  STEVE WHEATCROFT: I'll take that.  Yeah, I know I didn't have many because I was missing greens.  I didn't hit the ball quite as well as what I wanted to today.  Got off -- I started driving it a little squirrely for the first five, six holes but was scrambling really well and yeah, anytime my putter gets hot I usually putt pretty well.  It's nice to have it back again.   Q.  You know your position, 104th in FedExCup Points.  We have The Playoffs up coming.  A lot of big events.  Your card is secured for next year.  I know you have the opportunity to really make a move in these late events.  STEVE WHEATCROFT: Definitely.  I had goals that I've definitely not achieved and year-end kind of position also where I wanted to finish.  I've got a ways to go.  Not a bad time to start to get hot and get the putter going again.  Hope I can have a good week this week and the next couple of weeks.  Try to get on the around for The Playoffs.   Q.  Looks like the course is really receptive.  STEVE WHEATCROFT: The greens are soft enough.  The balls aren't really bouncing.  You can kind of flag hunt.  Because the fairways are soft it's holding the tee shots in play a little bit longer than if they were firm and running.  I see the guys going low this afternoon as well.   Q.  Well played.  Go get yourself some air conditioning.  STEVE WHEATCROFT: Thank you.  Can't wait.   Q.  Is that common for your caddy to do pictures and stuff like that?  STEVE WHEATCROFT: We were just looking the other day.  I was on the putting green.  I don't know, I have been struggling with the putter.  I haven't been able to line it up properly.  Didn't look right to me.  Hands got high and kind of lowered the hands a little bit and the putter all of a sudden started to work.  Kind of open and shut again.  Made a huge difference. I mean I think I hit pretty much every putt today exactly where I wanted to.  We might have misread a couple, the speeds were off on a couple.  To see the ball coming off exactly where I want every time again is very nice to see.   Q.  Preferred lies, did it make much difference this morning for you guys?  STEVE WHEATCROFT: I don't think it made much of a difference.  Didn't for me.  I had good lies in the fairway or hit it in the rough around the greens and got them up and down from them.  It will definitely make a difference. Guys are hitting in it divots.  If you're getting perfect lies and you can kind of play for the down-grain parts of the fairways so the club is not watching it.  It will make a little bit of the difference.  Depends on how much rain they get this afternoon and these guys get mud balls.  It will make a difference  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT