AMERICAN CENTURY CHAMPIONSHIP
July 13, 2007
Billy Joe Tolliver
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  I remember looking up at one point and you had left about 10- or 12-footer short and you took a swing with the putter, looks like things improved after?   
 BILLY JOE TOLLIVER:  Not really just the one putt I made on 18.  You know, I played okay today.  I just didn't putt very well.  I gave myself some chances at birdies early.  Just speed was horrible today.  I couldn't get it to the hole.   
 You know, you get in that mode of, you can't win it today, but you can lose it.  So you're lagging it up there and I hit some awful putts today.  But you know, bogeyed 16 and 17, and kind of get your blood running a little warm, and I just was fortunate and made an eagle on 18.   
  
  Q.  What did you say to yourself after that million mini-meltdown on 16 and 17?  What was going through your head?   
 BILLY JOE TOLLIVER:  Eagle 18.  I mean, I'm not Tiger Woods or anything.  I know I'm going to have three or four bogeys a day.  It's going to happen.  I'd rather them happen early than late, and I sure don't want them happening on a par 5.   
 You know, because my wife, the Big Mama, she's the master of the obvious.  She just called me a little while ago and said, "Don't bogey par 5s."    
 Really.  She's genius.   
  
  Q.  She's figured the Stableford?   
 BILLY JOE TOLLIVER:  She's got it down.  "Bogeys on par 5s are bad."   
 Really?  She's sharp.  You've got to get up early in the morning to get one past her.   
 I told her my golf ball is stamped with Big Mama this year.  It's going to be the new Nike ball, the Nike Big Mama.  And I told her, I said, "It's just like you, conservative; it won't go to the hole.  It will get there right close but it won't go in."    
  
  Q.  Is she watching on ESPN?  Did she call you when she finished?   
 BILLY JOE TOLLIVER:  Oh, I don't know.  She called.  She never has anything positive to say.  You know, not, "Hey, you're in the lead, good job."   
It was all, "You suck, man.  How do you make a bogey on 16 and 17?  You should quit the game."  She's brutal, man, I'm telling you.  If she wasn't good looking, I wouldn't put up with it.   
  
  Q.  Friday the 13th, are you a superstitious sort of guy?   
 BILLY JOE TOLLIVER:  You know, I don't even know -- I didn't even know what day it was.  I've been on the road so long and staying so busy that I barely know what day it is ever, and I certainly don't know the date.  But Friday the 13th, I'm a little superstitious.  If I'd have known that, probably would have played better today.   
  
  Q.  Did you have superstitions playing?   
 BILLY JOE TOLLIVER:  No, come on, man.  That's superstitious.  I wouldn't say superstitions.  I would just say obsessive-compulsive.   
  
  Q.  Does the rest of the leaderboard surprise you at all a little bit today?   
 BILLY JOE TOLLIVER:  No.  They are the guys that I've been talking up all week, same group of guys.  You know, Dan Quinn had a little tough go today.  You know, he had some speed problems out there with the putter.  The guy plays great.  He hits it down the middle, he knocks it on the green, but he just couldn't get anything to fall today until the last two holes.  But you know, he'll be in the hunt before it's all said and done with.   
 Other than that, you know, I haven't seen the whole leaderboard.  I just looked at four or five names there.  Don't know where Rypien is at or Elway or Mario.  But I'm sure it's the same -- you know, I'm sure that Grant Fuhr is up there; Sterling Sharpe; Rhoden's got to be up there; Chandler's got to be up there; Dilfer has got to be up there.  I had not seen where Del Greco is at and I'm sure he's not far off.   
 And I found out today, I'd like to send out our condolences to Jeremy Roenick and his family.  I heard he lost his father-in-law; had to withdraw.  I didn't even know about it until the 11th tee today.   
 Oh, there's the leaderboard right there.  Tommy Maddox is up there, you expect that; Pierre Larouche; then I can't see because dude's got his gray wig in the way.   
  
  Q.  How long was that putt on 18?   
 BILLY JOE TOLLIVER:  Oh, three or four feet -- I don't know.  It was probably 28, 30 feet, 25 feet, I don't know.  Put ShotLink on it.   
  
  Q.  So you've won twice before; right?   
 BILLY JOE TOLLIVER:  Mm-hmm.   
  
  Q.  You're ready to go, you got by with not your best round and you're still in the lead.   
 BILLY JOE TOLLIVER:  Well, you know, today is just, you know, it's position day.  Like I said, you can't win it today, but you can lose it and you can play yourself right out of it, because the guys are too good now.   
 But you know, there's still 36 holes left and there's a lot of names on that board over there that any one of them can make, you know, six, seven eight birdies in a round and you know, just vault up the leaderboard.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT