AMERICAN CENTURY CELEBRITY GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
July 16, 2006
Dan Quinn
Billy Joe Tolliver
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  I assume you guys are obviously a little disappointed looking at the point totals out there?

DAN QUINN:  Absolutely.  I think if you look at all three of us, if I started with Billy, he really played as bad as he could have but still had a chance to win.  He may not agree with me but he made a few bogeys.

BILLY JOE TOLLIVER:  Yeah, I agree.

DAN QUINN:  Jack was kind of out of it and I think he kind of relaxed when he got out of it.  He bogeyed the two par 5s early, and he made two birdies on the par 3s, 5 and 7, which in the Stableford experience, hats off to him and he hung in there and he played pretty decent after that.  He really putted good and made some good birdie putts and.

As far as me, I had    I think I chipped one and 2 putted three times.  So I feel like I gave it away a little bit, but again, Jack hung in there the best.  As bad as I putted, I still had a chance to make one on 18 to get in a playoff or win out right.

But I'm sure Billy Joe is kicking himself, he had a perfect Stableford round going, three birdies, three bogeys through six, a good point total and a par on 7 and couldn't get off the bogeys for a little while.  Kind of let me and Jack not doing and get back in it; whereas, if he played the way he can on that stretch from 8 through

BILLY JOE TOLLIVER:  8 through 11.

DAN QUINN:  8 through 11, he could have hit a couple good, solid pars, a birdie, he'd be tough to catch.

But anyways, Jack played the best of the two of us yesterday by far I thought tee to green and Billy Joe played well but I thought Jack played well.  He hung in.  He had a good    once he got relaxed    usually on Sunday he doesn't play well.  And he started out that way, looked like that early, and Billy Joe, when he bogeyed the two par 5s    he came back with a good birdie on 5 and I think that got rim relaxed and he played pretty decent from there.

BILLY JOE TOLLIVER:  I'll agree.  Because I remember telling my caddie, we're walking to the sixth tee box and I said, "Jack's the one we got to watch out for, because now he doesn't care.  Jack, he'll free wheel it now."  You know, me and Quinn, we're just going to keep trying to battle back and forth.  And it showed.

DAN QUINN:  You call me Quinn or Quinner?

BILLY JOE TOLLIVER:  Quinney is what I said.  I said Quinney.

But you know, Jack rolled the ball well today after probably No. 4.  Once we got out of 4.

And I mean, even the ones that he didn't make had a chance to go in.  He just played better than us.  I mean, tee to green, Quinn was the best player in the group today but Jack outputted us, and especially down the stretch.

DAN QUINN:  And we're not sitting here sour grapes.  So if a guy wins, he wins.  Congrats to Jack, he deserves it.  And he's been here since day one.  A couple years ago, he was beating me and Rick silly and he made like an 8 or 9 on 18 one day on Saturday.  He was beating us crazy, he was like 8  or 9 under coming into 18 on Saturday, I don't know what year that was, 2002 or 2001, something like that, and I ended up winning that year, but I remember he was playing great.  He had that bad hole on Saturday.

So he's definitely deserving of a win, so congrats to him.  Had to be a good telecast.

BILLY JOE TOLLIVER:  Yeah, it had to be good.

DAN QUINN:  If Jack doesn't make it

BILLY JOE TOLLIVER:  Starting 16, 17, 18.

DAN QUINN:  I've got a putt to win or tie in worst case.

BILLY JOE TOLLIVER:  You had a chance to change the whole tune when we both parred 16.

DAN QUINN:  Yeah, I slibbed (ph) a little putt.  Even 18; I'm standing with a putt very worst tie Jack.

BILLY JOE TOLLIVER:  Same thing I told my caddie, I bogeyed 15 with a wedge in my hands, which I had eight bogeys today so naturally I'm kicking myself in the rear.  And they were all with wedges in my hand, except for on No. 8.  You know, after the kick I got on 8, I didn't deserve a par.

But you know, you throw eight bogeys out there    I started off the round, bogey, birdie, bogey, birdie, bogey, birdie and then I make my first par, and then the wheels fell off four holes.

You know, back nine was a lot of fun.  I 3 putt 10 and 11.  I did my best to keep in it.  Like Dan said, I had a chance there, after I come off 7 with the par, and they are really to the doing much.  You know, Jack is still trying to find it.  Quinn is still dealing with speed, trying to get a feel, you know, like he said, some kind of thought with his putter.  Hit the ball well.  Just nothing is falling for him.  You know, I've got a chance to go    if I can go par, par, par, birdie, 8, 9, 10,11, now all of a sudden I'm looking at nine points.  You know, I've got a nine point lead, something like that, and now I can just    now it's match play.  You know, I can just go, hit it here, hit it there and see what happens.

You know, that's why you play the game.  And I'm not at all disappointed in the tournament.  As little as I've been playing, you know, hit the shots down the stretch.  I just didn't make anything.
Q.  You guys had to wait there on 18 and looked like from TV that Jack was maybe nervous.  Do you think his son being his caddie had anything to do with him holding up through the end there?

BILLY JOE TOLLIVER:  No.

DAN QUINN:  I know Jack pretty well.  Jack is an entertainer.  I've gambled with him since 1992.  He won't gag.  He was enjoying where he was at.  He wanted his boys to be a part of it.

I think the delay might have relaxed him to be honest with you, because he was talking and we just kind of walked over there and was quiet and Billy Joe knows when you have to play this hole to win, anything can happen.  He hit the drive over to the right.  Anything can happen.

BILLY JOE TOLLIVER:  He got a great kick.

DAN QUINN:  Anything can happen over there and he got in a place where, you know    and then he hit a good chip and made the putt, God bless him.  At the end of the day, that's what it comes down to.  Billy Joe and I are sitting there, obviously trying to sound    I always say this, whenever you win, you congratulate the winner.

BILLY JOE TOLLIVER:  Best man would be, that's it, it's that simple.

DAN QUINN:  I also know this, for me, Dan Hicks asked me today's, I just enjoy beating Rick.  Rick wasn't in my group today.  (Laughter) These guys, I like Billy Joe and Jack, so we were competing but I don't mind Jack winning.  If Billy would have won, it would have been fine.  I hate it when Rick beat me.  I used to do pretty good on Sundays.

BILLY JOE TOLLIVER:  The thing about it, especially in Stableford, it's all momentum.  As crappy as I played early, you know, through the first 11 holes, forget about the birdies, it's hard    it's a momentum game.  You've got one guy in your group, and he's    you know, he's making birdies and you know, everything is good, you know, everybody feeds off of it.  I never pulled anybody along.  You know, I was sitting there talking about, well, all of a sudden I've got a nine point lead.  Well, you know, maybe not.  Maybe that's five points.  Because you start making birdies, a bunch of birdies fall, it's contagious.

DAN QUINN:  You don't know what's safe, that's the weird thing.  I was trying to do math from 13 in, if I do this and they do that, or if they do this and I do that.

BILLY JOE TOLLIVER:  I figured when we were standing on    I just missed on 11, and I walked to the back of the green, and I looked at the deal and ran it all down.  I told my caddie, "First one to 70 wins."   I said first guy that can get to 70 wins.  And we had a lot of chances.  We had a lot, all three of us had a lot of chances on 12, 13, 14, there were a lot of chances to make some putts.  You know, Jack's the one that he made the putts for par.  You know, he did the things that it took to win.

DAN QUINN:  I think he got relaxed.  I can't emphasize that enough.  He got relaxed when he made his bogeys early, like all right I'm not going to win and then he makes two birdies and it's like

BILLY JOE TOLLIVER:  He got right back in.

DAN QUINN:  He already went through that emotionally of getting had it out of his system.  He'll have to attest that.  But if he denies this, he's a liar.  (Laughter).

BILLY JOE TOLLIVER:  He can't deny it.  Me and my caddie talked about it.

DAN QUINN:  That's great.  He's got a great two boys, Peter was on the bag, and I'm good friends with Jack.

BILLY JOE TOLLIVER:  I'm with you on that.  I'm happy that his boys were here when it happened for him.

DAN QUINN:  I've got a boy, Billy has a little boy, it would be a dream to win out here with your son on the bag.  Unfortunately I'll be 60 years old.

BILLY JOE TOLLIVER:  I remember it was about five years ago, four or five years ago, and I played with Joe Theismann and he had his kid on the bag.  And I remember thinking, you know, what a great day this is for Jack    I mean, for Joe.  And, you know, because, "nice shot, Dad; nice putt, Dad," all that stuff, and it was a great day.

One of these days, I can't wait to get my kid back here, get him on the bag.

DAN QUINN:  Peter didn't know how to celebrate on 18.  He Jack was doing a little Bold and Beautiful parade making the putt which he should have done and Peter didn't know what to do.  He was tearing up.  It was grates for the two of them?
Q.  Can you talk about your kids, their names and locations ages?

DAN QUINN:  Sure.  I have a daughter, Jordan, and a daughter Kamryn, and I just had a little boy, Jack, five weeks ago.
Q.  Spellings?

DAN QUINN:  J o r d a n, K a m r y n, Irish spelling.  They are 7 and 6 and Jack's five weeks.

BILLY JOE TOLLIVER:  And Jack is J a c k.  (Laughter).

DAN QUINN:  Q u i n n.

BILLY JOE TOLLIVER:  I have a lot of kids.  I've got Austin, Mackenzie, Bryce and Brody Jack.

DAN QUINN:  Actually they all have two names but    Billy Sue, Bobby Bill, you know.
Q.  Do you call him Brody?  Spelling and ages?

BILLY JOE TOLLIVER:  Austin, he's 17.  Lone girl, Mackenzie.  Bryce, Bryce, and Brody Jack, Brody with a "Y."
Q.  Whose got the best handicap of your kids?

BILLY JOE TOLLIVER:  The 17 year old, none of the other ones played but the 17 year old, he doesn't play much, but he is very gifted athlete.  He's all state football player, preseason All American, all that stuff, and I hand him a golf club, you can put him on film and he is in perfect positions everywhere, he never plays.  The kid is tremendously talented.  But you know, he just doesn't play.  Got too much going on between football, baseball and girls and pissing me off, he has a lot going on.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT