MOUNTAIN WEST WOMEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
March 11, 2016
Jaime White
Toni Smith
Bego Faz Davalos
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Colorado State - 55  Fresno State - 54   
THE MODERATOR: Coach, some thoughts on today's game.   
HEAD COACH JAIME WHITE: Yeah, I feel like I should just sing a sad song right now.  A coach always wishes that your players play the best on the biggest stage.  And I really felt like our kids did that.   
Really had focus and courage and intensity.  Had a great first half.  Struggled a little bit in the second half.  A few turnovers that hurt us.  And then we had it down the stretch, but just like any coach would say, one play doesn't make or break us.  It's a culmination of plays.  We lost a little bit of a lead right there and that hurt us.   
Really proud of our kids.  Really proud of our year.  We were picked 4th, we ended up in the championship game with a great opportunity to win the game.  And we probably -- well, I shouldn't even say probably -- I know we could not have done it without these two.  I'm proud of both of them, what they've overcome.  And Toni being a senior and taking a role that we asked her to take.  And Bego really playing hard all year long and just the achievements they've made.  Along with the rest of our team.  Colorado State is a good team.  They hit, again, they hit the shots they needed to, put themselves in a position to be close.  I think they've done a good job and I wish them well when they go to the NCAA's.   
 Q.  With the start you guys got off to in that game obviously everything was working for you guys.  In the second half as you kind of look back on it, where do you think maybe it started to slip away a little bit?  
TONI SMITH: I think they started off well, honestly they did.  They read us well.  They defended inside really well.  We just couldn't get the shots that we needed in that half.  But, hey --   
 Q.  Do you think that Colorado State was getting better shots in the second half or do you think that they were just making the shots that they were getting, which they weren't doing in the first half?  
BEGO FAZ DAVALOS: Well, like Coach said, I think they're a really good team.  But they took advantage of the shots.  And we were just missing the shots that we were missing.   
 Q.  What was the strategy?  Obviously you got fouls to give in the final seconds there.  Were the instructions from the bench just don't foul on the active shooting or what was your views of that, kind of the crucial foul at the end?  
TONI SMITH: Yeah, we were just planning to -- we didn't want to foul on the shot.  And of course it happened.  So we were just trying to foul before it got off.   
HEAD COACH JAIME WHITE: On that last play, we were not trying to foul.  We fouled up -- San Jose State did a good job of that against us when we were at home.  Use a little bit of time off the clock and then you make it a short clock.  So use a couple of fouls, but once they got under the basket we didn't want to foul.   
 Q.  Just make sure I get this right.  In clarification, so you were trying to foul originally those three or four times?  
HEAD COACH JAIME WHITE: We had four fouls to give.  So we had four fouls to give and we wanted to use a little bit of time and foul to keep them away from running anything, really.  And so we got the clock down to what is it, about 4.  At that timeout -- Ryun took a timeout, at that timeout, we said no more fouling, because they were going to shoot the ball, right?  And try to draw a foul.  And so at that time we were like, no fouls, stay straight up, get rebounds, no more fouling.  And then the shot came in, Nystrom made a good cut to get open and then shot the ball.  And we were in the wrong spot at the wrong time, that's all.   
 Q.  The other night against UNLV you mentioned after the 20-point lead got down to two, you said you committed some turnovers that your team just normally doesn't do.  And in this game you committed four over the last five and a half minutes.  What was it that got to them that you saw?  Were they just getting nervous, were they tentative?  Did they start thinking too much?  They looked like the team that was loose and having fun in the first half.  
HEAD COACH JAIME WHITE: Yeah.  I thought Colorado State had a little more of an urgency down the stretch.  We were -- we didn't get as many -- we got a couple of offensive rebounds in the first half that I thought really helped us and early in the second half.  Towards that end we were getting one and done.   
We did turn the ball over.  There were some scrambling for the ball at half court and the ball -- just loose ball stuff that I didn't think we were as tight as we needed to be with the ball.   
But at the same time I thought our kids did the game plan to the T.  They did everything we asked.  We bothered Wharry, Wharry really hurt us at the high post last time we played, and I thought we did a really good job on her.  Nystrom's only points were the free throws.  That is another sad song that I could sing.   
But we did what we had to do to win, I really think.  Games are going to be like that.  Two teams playing a championship game, it's going to be like that.  I just wish we were on the other side.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT