MOUNTAIN WEST WOMEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
March 11, 2019
Jaime White
Maddi Utti
Candice White
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Fresno State - 66, UNLV - 55   
THE MODERATOR: We're joined by Fresno State head coach Jaime White and student-athletes Maddi Utti and Candice White.  Coach, an opening statement.   
COACH WHITE: Well, I thought we had a good start to the game.  And I thought we had good energy coming out.  Early I thought our press was really good.  We were able to create some offense with forcing them into turnovers.  And I thought just as a team we played well together.  Get 38 points in the paint, that's a nice job.  And then to force the 22 turnovers, I think that was pretty much the game.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
 Q.  The first half, a little precursor, I've known Maddi for four years, I was the counselor at her high school -- I'm writing a feature article for our local paper.  But I was really impressed with that energy from all of those girls.  You must do a heck of a preseason training regime?  
COACH WHITE: Well, I think the biggest thing was our girls were a little upset about how we finished our regular season conference games.  And so I think our focus was really good coming into this game.  Also our confidence in knowing that we'd played really well against UNLV.  And clearly UNLV outsizes, us and Maddi is going to be not the tallest one out there.  But with our speed and our agility and Maddi playing the top of the press and the top of the zone has really helped us down the stretch.   
Also, Genna Ogier played a great game and she was able to hang in there with those big kids.  It was nice seeing all of us hitting it on the same night.   
 Q.  What did you talk about at halftime to shut down their tall girls, because the one gal had 13, I don't know, in the first half and then she was shut down?  
COACH WHITE: Powell was getting free.  She was getting open on the short corner.  So we made a little bit of an adjustment where we have the center come out and try to defend her a little bit better.  And I think we had a little bit more of an awareness of where she was.   
We know she can shoot the 3, and she hit one of those deep ones on us in Fresno, too.  So I think on the top we had an urgency, but in the post play, just a little bit more communication, kind of shifting a couple of things.  And then I thought Kate Noyer came in and did a good job on her, just to make her shoot over a taller hand.   
 Q.  Maddi, what do you have to say to the folks back home?  
MADDI UTTI: Just thanks for all the support.  Thanks for watching all the time and everything.   
 Q.  How have you grown in your two years personally, athletically, what do you think have been your greatest strides?  
MADDI UTTI: Well, with my game, I play a different position now.  So with basketball, it's changed for me.  I like it.  And then I've grown as a person because playing basketball is hard.  It's hard work.  It takes a lot of commitment.  And I love my teammates and it's been the best decision I've made.   
 Q.  Candice, I see you guide that team; you really give them a lot of direction and move people around.  What year are you?  
CANDICE WHITE: I'm a senior this year.  But with the core class that's with Maddi, the four sophomores, they're just a group that's always wanting to learn, always working hard and just competitive all the time.  So in a way they make my job, I guess you could say, a lot easier.  But they're a special group that I know is going to have a lot of success in the future.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT