MOUNTAIN WEST WOMEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
March 7, 2017
Jaime White
Candice White
Bego Faz Davalos
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Fresno State - 58  Wyoming - 48
COACH JAIME WHITE: I thought we had probably the best three quarters put together all season.  Our kids played really good defense.  I thought we pressured well.  And just caused Wyoming to take some time breaking the press and work on their offense.  I thought we contested the right people.  We got great rebounding position and good rebounds.
And again, I thought we got the ball inside to Bego early, where I thought she did a good job.  We got them in foul trouble.  And for the most part I think they had to play a little bit safe there until the fourth quarter, not excited about that as much.  It's tournament time, teams are going to do that.  And I thought our kids got scared and then came back and held their poise and finished the game.
Q. Not to take anything away from your effort over three quarters, but did any part of it shock you as far as just their futility.  24 points in three quarters, and they scored 24 in the fourth quarter.  Is there any point you say, Is this really happening?
CANDICE WHITE: When it comes to Wyoming all of them can shoot from the one to the five.  It wasn't surprising, it was just a matter of how are we going to stop them.
Q. You had a couple of milestones as far as double-double, I think you needed one more to set a single season mark.  And then I believe -- career goal for blocks for the school.  And for total blocks in Mountain West Tournament action, you needed one more to tie.  Talk about personal applications, and helping Fresno State for their fifth straight semifinal appearance.
BEGO FAZ DAVALOS: I'm really happy about it, but I'm definitely super happy about the win.  If those blocks help us out to win the game, definitely I'm going to try to make them, I'm going to try to block them.  I'm super happy about our team effort and I'm excited about what's going to happen tomorrow.
Q. Any team, either team tonight that you're looking forward to facing, one team you'd rather not face?
BEGO FAZ DAVALOS: Well, personally I want to face all of them.  It's going to be fun.  I don't think we're afraid of any single team.  But I'm just excited for the next one, definitely.
CANDICE WHITE: She pretty much said it all.  Either team, we haven't got a win.  So either one would be great.
Q. Which one do you feel you match up better with?
COACH JAIME WHITE: You know, we've played both of them.  I thought we played a solid game at home against Utah State, but again, both of them were our single games during the Mountain West, so it's kind of hard to tell.  I didn't think we played great here against UNLV, but I do think as far as the matchup goes, they're very similar, both of them.  They both play two more post type players and three guards.  And so, you know, whatever it takes.  I feel like we're up for the challenge.  We're here.  We're in it.  And we're going to stay as long as we can.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT