NL DIVISION SERIES: CARDINALS VS BRAVES
October 5, 2019
Tyler Webb
Giovanny Gallegos
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions for Giovanny Gallegos and Tyler Webb.
Q. Did pitching in the postseason feel different than pitching in a regular season game?
GIOVANNY GALLEGOS: I think it's the same baseball, but it's different pressure. But I'll be ready for this situation. Let's enjoy the game. That's good.
Q. In your opinion, can you describe why the Cardinals seem to play so well at Busch Stadium, offensively and pitching and defense?
GIOVANNY GALLEGOS: I think you prepare yourself to be in this kind of situation, doesn't matter whether you're on the road or at home. I think everybody's prepared to give 100 percent and their best effort. It doesn't matter if it's at home or on the road. But definitely being at home is something really cool because of the fans.
Q. Geo, quite a year for you; didn't make the opening day roster, but now you're here as the go-to reliever in high-leverage situations. What does that mean to you to be able to rise to this level in the Cardinals bullpen?
GIOVANNY GALLEGOS: Yeah, we thought that time is perfect. So I was always ready for the opportunity. Thank God I got the opportunity to contribute to the team. And besides that, when it comes to the pitching situation, I'm just prepared to be ready in any kind of situation. I just don't make it bigger than what it really is. I just try to pitch and perform and enjoy the game.
Q. Tyler, given the circumstances yesterday, retiring Freeman, Donaldson and Markakis in the fashion you did, was that one of the more satisfying innings of your career there?
TYLER WEBB: I think so. I mean, anytime you can go one, two, three through the heart of a good lineup like that it's rewarding, for sure. But I'm not looking too far into it. It was a pretty good inning and just try and build upon it and basically repeat it if I can.
Q. Tyler, I was talking to Gio about playing at home for the Cardinals. In your opinion, what is it about this stadium that brings out winning baseball, or maybe nothing about the stadium, that brings out winning baseball in this team?
TYLER WEBB: I think it's more the fans than maybe the stadium. This city is -- it's a baseball city that's enjoyed a lot of good teams, a lot of memorable postseason runs. And I think that they're excited hopefully for another long run, and I think -- just like we've been preparing all year, I think the fans have been preparing all year. So I'm looking forward to tomorrow to attack Busch Stadium, for sure. It should be a good atmosphere.
Q. Tyler, how did you rebound, if that's the right word, after allowing that home run to Sandoval right before the All-Star break and then getting sent out and then you had to kind of reprove yourself when you came back, which you did, how did you do that?
TYLER WEBB: I basically just forgot about it. Just one bad pitch before the All-Star break. Took the All-Star break to clear my head, went to Triple-A, didn't try to reinvent the wheel. I knew I'd been pitching pretty well. Just every once in a while an outing gets away from you and you don't make the adjustments quick enough during the outing to kind of right the ship.
And I just try not to look too far into it and just keep trusting the process and got back up here and had some good outings and just execute pitches, I think, is the main thing.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT