BIG TEN CONFERENCE MEDIA DAYS (WOMEN)
October 28, 2010
Jolette Law
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOLETTE LAW: This year we're building off of where we finished last year. Our kids have been very motivated, highly energized. We lost to Illinois State at the buzzer last year, and all summer long we've been just building off of that. It's just fortunate our game opener will be November 12th against Illinois State, so our kids are focused and they're working extremely hard. 
 Karisma Penn, Kersten Magrum and Lydia McCully have really stepped into the leadership role, and really I feel like this team right now, we might be lacking height, but the energy and the competitiveness is there. So we're looking forward to our season. 

 Q. I know it's your fourth year, but it's really a big transition year considering who you lost from last year's team. What will your team be about as far as when we see you guys playing? 
 JOLETTE LAW: I know we lost Jenna Smith and Lacey Simpson, and they were key in our offense last year, but this year we're smaller. We're going to press a little bit more, do a little bit more things that I was used to doing when I was at Rutgers. We just have to throw a lot of defensive schemes, probably play a lot more four guards, one-post offense, and right now I'm just trying to train everyone to play at all positions. That's the theme right now. We're not trying to look at what we do. Just right now everybody has to play a bigger role and step up and do more. It won't be about one person, Karisma Penn or Lydia McCully but collectively as a team. That's what we've been preaching all summer long, team chemistry and everyone doing more and taking on a bigger role. 

 Q. Can you talk about your freshman class and how they'll transition into some playing time this season. 
 JOLETTE LAW: You know, I'm looking at Centrese McGee is doing a great job catching on. She has a great basketball IQ. She's been doing extremely well. Alexis Burke, very, very talented player, just teaching, moving her around. She's really a perimeter, but she's a bigger, taller-sized guard. But just putting her in down at the guard position, working her a little bit on the post. 
 And the two freshmen have really come in and really added to my nucleus. I look forward to seeing -- you'll definitely see a lot of my freshmen making a big impact this year. 

 Q. You talked about the smaller team you're going to be putting on the court this year. What style of play would you like to implement to accommodate that?
 JOLETTE LAW: I know in the past we were probably more of a man-to-man defense. Our background has been like man and zone plays. Probably this year you'll see a lot more different zones, probably a lot of three quarter-court press, so I can't really full-court press. We're not going to be afraid to do a lot of different things, but we'll probably throw a lot of different match-ups on and mix it up a little bit more than we did in the past. And definitely try to make our defense create our offense. When you have a smaller lineup we can get after it a little bit more. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT