U.S. TEAM OLYMPIC TRIALS: SWIMMING
June 28, 2012
Michael Phelps
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   (No microphone.)
MICHAEL PHELPS:   It's not a good enough time to win a gold medal, but I think I'm okay with it.   I'd like to see how I split it more than anything.   I knew Davis swam that race in my eyes how he had to. 
He went out after it and put it all on the line, and I saw him out there and kinda tried to maybe judge myself a little bit about where I was throughout the race, and then going into the last wall I didn't want to have any close ones, so I tried to stay under as long as I could, and today was the best my stroke has felt throughout the whole meet. 
So in all I'm pleased but I think I need to go faster if I want to win that at the Olympics. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
MICHAEL PHELPS:   I don't think so.   I think the most pressure is what I put on myself.   I was just thinking about it today, this is my fourth Olympics Games in this event, so it's special to me, special to my family, special to my mom. 
I have a couple of weeks to perfect some things that I'm going to need if I want to end with a good one. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
MICHAEL PHELPS:   I mean, our family has always been butterfliers, so this event has always been fairly special for us. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
MICHAEL PHELPS:   He stated yesterday that he‑‑ or I saw a couple of articles that he was ready and he wanted to step up, and he obviously finished that race, really strong.   So I think it's cool to see somebody to be excited after a race. 
I said to him when I got out I said, "It's pretty cool to make your first one," and he goes, "You have no idea how good that feels.   So it was definitely cool to watch his excitement and swimming with him for a couple of years of school you see how much of a hard worker he is, and it's cool to see everything pay off. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
MICHAEL PHELPS:   Definitely doing the 200 IM; there was never a question.   I'm feeling okay.   Like I said, my strokes are feeling, I guess today, after having that morning off, I was kind of just wanting to get fresh and rest up.   Tonight I felt more relaxed and my strokes kinda felt like the old strokes. 
Hopefully through the week we can progress some more and then the next couple of days are probably going to be fun races for you guys to watch.   Thanks, guys.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT