U.S. OLYMPIC SWIM TRIALS
July 2, 2016
Michael Phelps
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Was that your best race of the meet, do you know?  
MICHAEL PHELPS: Probably.  A terrible finish.  It was a little long, but, you know, I said to Bob -- he asked me what the game plan was tonight, and I said, "I don't want to lose my last race on American soil," so that was kind of in my head.   
You know, there's been a lot of history here so 51.0 is okay, but it's going to take more than that to win a gold medal.   
 Q.  Were you feeling better today, peppier?  
MICHAEL PHELPS: A little bit.  I got my legs worked on last night and a little bit this morning, got 'em carved, so my legs are feeling better.  Still really tight in my hips, but, I felt better, I felt like I had better legs the second 25 tonight than I have the whole meet.   
 Q.  What is it like recovering from multiple races now compared to four or eight years ago?  
MICHAEL PHELPS: Yesterday really hurt.  That took a lot out of me!  Like I was saying yesterday my lactate being up to 12 and 13, for me that takes a long time to clear.  So I was pretty much in the warm-down pool for forty minutes.  With that and kind of -- I have a lot of emotion here with Boomer and with family here, and being my last meet on American soil, so there is a lot going on this week, but I'm happy that, you know, we did everything that we wanted to do.  I made three events and possibility for relays, and we'll see what happens.   
 Q.  Are you excited to see Katie in the 800?  
MICHAEL PHELPS: She is going to tear it up; she always does.  She looked so easy in the prelims.  She looked like she really only kicked the last 50.  Should be interesting to watch, and she is going to be somebody that I'm looking forward to having on the team.   
 Q.  Do you feel like you have a clear plan in the next five weeks to shave time?  
MICHAEL PHELPS: Bob does.  I hope he does.  If he doesn't I've got to fire him!   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
MICHAEL PHELPS: Tom is awesome.  He's a great person to race.  We swim pretty much the same race, and he's got great underwaters, and I said to him after the 200 Fly, "We're going to have to swim a lot faster if we want to be on the podium.  He's someone I have raced for the last couple of years, and I've watched his fly get better and better.   
 Q.  Did it help having him right next to you?  
MICHAEL PHELPS: I didn't really care who was next to me, to be honest.  I had my own game plan in that race, and I just want to step on it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT