ISPS HANDA WALES OPEN
August 30, 2013
Liam Bond
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   5‑under is a terrific total, what's been the secret to success so far?   
LIAM BOND:   I don't know if there's a secret.   I only found out I was getting in on Wednesday afternoon, so I didn't have any time to over‑prepare like I have in the past.   I just turned straight up and just played really and it's worked out well.  
   
 Q.   Game‑wise, you've been striking the ball well, holing putts, what's been the key?   
LIAM BOND:   I've been playing well all year.   Since I lost my card in '11, I've been playing regional golf.   So I've been playing in the region and I've done all right and I've won three times there, so I feel like my game is still pretty good.   
Today and yesterday, it's still been good, but I've putted well, as well.   
   
 Q.   I know you have a close affiliation with St Pierre, do you have friends and family out watching you?   
LIAM BOND:   Yeah, I live ten minutes down the road there, we come up to the Celtic quite a lot with the family.   It's nice being close to home.  
   
 Q.   How exciting to be in this position going into the weekend in the Wales Open?  
LIAM BOND:   It's my first tournament now for a year and a half, so it's nice to be in a position to do well.   I think the pressure's off really.   I'm not trying to grind out and keep my card, so I'm just trying to play and enjoy it.   
   
 Q.   Nothing particular inspired this burst of form we are seeing here?   
LIAM BOND:   I've just had a very relaxed couple of months I suppose.   Kids have been off on holiday and I haven't been doing anything really particularly.   I think when I was on Tour, I was trying to work harder and hit more balls and everything was under close scrutiny.   I was trying to get it all right.   Now I just seem to have relaxed and I'm playing a lot better and there's a lot to be said for it.   
   
 Q.   I take it, it's more of the same from the first day, that's terrific golf, isn't it?   
LIAM BOND:   Yeah, I played really nicely today and yesterday.   It's nice to carry it on today, with it being so tough and windy, there is always a potential banana skin and you can drop a few early and you're in a bit of trouble.   Managed to plod along well and I've just been pretty steady.  
   
 Q.   Plod along well; it was tricky, wasn't it, not quite the wind of the first day but still troublesome.   
LIAM BOND:   Still windy, and cursing the early starters yesterday, we still had a bit of wind but I managed to dig deep and hit some good shots at the right times.   It it's nice.  
   
 Q.   Were you conscious of your position on that leaderboard?   
LIAM BOND:   Yeah, I knew 7‑under was leading after yesterday, and you know, it's not going to be a low scoring venue, it's so tricky out there.   But I thought I was doing pretty well, you know, but when I reached that 13th hole, it's a tough par 3 over the water, and I think I was 4‑under at the time‑‑ a couple doubles away from being at the bottom.   
I was happy to play well and hit some good shots when I wanted to.  
   
 Q.   I'm sure you won't get carried away, you've been here before and played countless tournaments down the years.   Surprised how well you've played this week?  
LIAM BOND:   Yeah, I was just saying to Tim, I've been playing quite well locally in the region.   I decided against The Challenge Tour because I wasn't getting enough starts.   I've been doing nicely and playing well and winning tournaments, so just been in a different frame of mind.   
I put a lot of pressure before on The European Tour, and hopefully now not so much.  
Staying at home, I have my slippers on tonight, this afternoon, won't have a pipe out, but a cup of tea and I'll be quite happy.  
   
 Q.   Plenty of local support?   
LIAM BOND:   Yeah, quite a few people come out, it's nice to see.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT