STANFORD UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 15, 2015
Ronnie Harris
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Stanford - 56  UCLA - 35


RONNIE HARRIS: It's very hard to explain.  The way he was just pacing it just seemed like he had something on his mind that was bigger than the game.  I just, at that moment, I don't know, something came over me just said, coach, just let it out.  If you have just an outburst of passion, you don't know how much energy that gives to us.  And he's answered the bell.  He's been doing it and he's getting us a lot of, I would say way more ready for these games just by his passion.  He has a lot of influence over us, not that he's understanding that more this year, but he's just being himself out there, he's having fun, he's backing up his boys now.  And when you have a coach like that, ready to show his passion and eager just to be happy, you're going to work every day.
Q. What are some of the things that he's doing that are different in terms of how emotional he is or how different his demeanor is?
RONNIE HARRIS: I don't think that his demeanor's changing, I just think the way that he's approaching practice, practice and games for that matter is definitely -- we just see him more relaxed.  You see him happy year, you see him smiling, you see him just rotating from defense to offense and we just see him like a little bit more pep in his step.  Not exactly sure for what reason.  Maybe the breakfast he's eating each morning but it's just amazing.  And our team is feeding off that and we can't do nothing but just be happy about it.
Q. You're seeing guys really reacts like viscerally react to it, in terms of feeding off his energy.
RONNIE HARRIS: Definitely.  I would say so.
Q. That's really interesting.  (No microphone.)  You see him pregame, to explore something like that kind of get a charge out of that.  Are his pregame speeches different.  I don't think he's like tipping chairs over or anything but is he more emotional pregame than he's been in the past?
RONNIE HARRIS: I think he's just calmer in the pregame and feel like he's just talking from the heart.  And feel like anything that comes from the heart is always just genuine.  So when you have that just genuine feeling, like I said, you'll just go to work for that guy any time.
Q. How exciting was this win for you, I mean national television, UCLA, how big was this one?
RONNIE HARRIS: It was a big game, because it was the next game.  It felt good to come out here and get that win in front of our fans, for our home fans, and just my team puts in so much effort every single day, every single week of practice and I'm glad that our preparation paid off.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT