SANEX CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 31, 2001
Anke Huber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Questions for Anke. 


Q.  You must have imagined your last appearance somewhat differently.  In hindsight, what is the feeling to be sitting here the last time?

ANKE HUBER:  I would have loved to have played better, but she played some great tennis.  She didn't give me any opportunities.  It's a bit strange.  It's the last time I'm attending such a press conference, it's not so bad I have to admit.  Yeah, it's a strange feeling.  I would have loved to have played better tennis.  It went that fast.  It was a bit unhappy today. 

Q.  Your coach for years, Boris, said he'd try to convince you to carry on next year or in two years from now for a couple of events. 

ANKE HUBER:  Well, he tried in the past (smiling).  This is why I didn't invite him today, so he couldn't convince me.  No, my decision is made.  There won't be any further ado.  I would have loved to play better.  It's a pity my final match wasn't very good, but I can't really choose when it's a good day and when it's not, unfortunately.

Q.  Trying to convince you, was this because you split with Boris?

ANKE HUBER:  No, there are other reasons.  We talked about it when we split.  He said he wouldn't appreciate my leaving the tour, but that wasn't my reason to split. 

Q.  Independently, irrespective of what happened with the sport, there wasn't very much noise in the hall.  Are you very disappointed about the audience for your final match?  There was no mood or crowd. 

ANKE HUBER:  Well, it was hard because I didn't get into the match.  Had it been a bit tighter of a match, I think the crowd would have cheered us more.  At 2:00 on a Wednesday, people are supposed to work.  It was better than I would have thought.  It wasn't all that bad.  It was difficult to have a good atmosphere in the hall.  At 3-All, 4-All, it might be different.  That's not the way it was in this match. 

Q.  You had a major delegation you invited today, coach, friends?

ANKE HUBER:  Of course.  Many people said they'd come.  I invited some.  Some came.  It's relatively normal.  You play your last tournament, maybe your last match.  Of course, it would appear normal some people are with you. 

Q.  Do you feel prepared for what is coming as of tomorrow, the changes?

ANKE HUBER:  I had a lot of time to get used to this idea.

Q.  Who came among your friends?

ANKE HUBER:  Well, it was my father.  He doesn't come very frequently.  A couple friends of his.  A couple of friends that I have known for years.  Boris, of course.  Zoltan, I don't know where he was.  But friends and relatives from early on, people I had a lot to do with over the years. 

Q.  People thought it was strange there was no farewell in the hall.  Are you going home?

ANKE HUBER:  No, I'll be here till Saturday.  I'm going to have a party with everybody on Saturday.  I'm going to stay. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT