US OPEN
September 3, 1999
Anke Huber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
WTA:  Questions for Anke.  
 
 
Q.  It's been over a year since you played Jana.  Last time she beat you 6-2, 6-2 on a hard court.  Were you surprised by your dominance today out there?
 
ANKE HUBER:  Well, a little bit surprised that it was maybe 6-3, 6-2.  I had a plan, and I made  -- I think I played the right game today.  I just tried to make less mistakes than I did the last time.  I was waiting for my chances.  That's what I was doing, and I think I just played the right game today. 
 
Q.  You were able to pass her seems like every time she tried to come in on you.  Are you feeling confident making those types of passing shots, feeling good about your groundstrokes?
 
ANKE HUBER:  Yeah, I felt very good today about my groundstrokes.  I passed her really well in the beginning.  She knew that she has to approach very well.  She made a lot of mistakes with her approaches afterwards.  I think it was the most important shot to pass well in the beginning, and the whole match actually.  I didn't make a lot of mistakes there, yes. 
 
Q.  Any thoughts on playing either Amelie or Tara?  Will you be watching tonight?
 
ANKE HUBER:  I might be watching on TV a little bit, but not out here.  I can go back to the city.  I think Amelie will win.  She has a little more experience maybe on the bigger courts, maybe also the more powerful game and stronger game also. 
 
Q.  How do you think your game will match up with hers?
 
ANKE HUBER:  I think it will be a fast game.  We both hit the ball hard and try to play aggressive.  She's serving very well.  She has a very good backhand.  I will see.  I think I have chances to win.  I have to be concentrated and just, yeah, keep on trying.  
 
Q.  You and Andrei are playing on different days.  Does that make it easier so you can watch each other?
 
ANKE HUBER:  We actually don't watch each other that much.  Everybody's trying to concentrate on his own tournament.  I think it's better for everybody if you're both playing.  I watched his first match.  I didn't watch him yesterday.  It's okay like this.  I think we can see each other after the tournament.  But now everybody's a little bit tight and nervous.  It's a different situation. 
 
Q.  How nervous do you get watching him?
 
ANKE HUBER:  I get very nervous watching.  It's also you lose energy when you're watching, so it's maybe not the best thing to do during the tournament. 
 
Q.  Are you staying together in New  York at least?
 
ANKE HUBER:  Yes. 
 
Q.  When you're not playing, you can spend some time?
 
ANKE HUBER:  Yes. 
 
Q.  What have you guys been doing?
 
ANKE HUBER:  No, we just going out for dinners, enjoying the city a little bit, but not too much.  During the tournament, not so much.  
 
Q.  How much of a relief is it to be relatively injury-free finally?
 
ANKE HUBER:  It's nice.  It's nice for a change not to feel that much pain as before, and to practice.  I really practice consistently now for a few weeks.  It didn't happen for the last, maybe, I don't know, last year.  It's really happy to see that I could do it and also to play well, after all. 
 
Q.  How close are you to where you want to be?
 
ANKE HUBER:  Well, I still want to play better.  You always want to improve.  I think I can still play better, so I will still work on it.  I think I'm close, but I think I can improve my serve.  Today I didn't serve that well.  I still have a few things I can do better, yeah. 
 
Q.  At the French, Andrei talked about how great it was to have you back in his life, how much it helped his game.  Do you feel the same?  Do you return those feelings?
 
ANKE HUBER:  Now I can talk (laughter)?  
 
Q.  It's your turn. 
 
ANKE HUBER:  I'm happy we are back together, definitely.  It's nice.  We know each other very well.  We know each other for six years, so it's really nice to be together again.  He helped me go through also the difficult time now when I was injured.  It's nice to be back, yeah, to have somebody who understands what you're doing.  
 
Q.  What do you have to do to break into the top tier of the game?  You get up there, then you're back down. 
 
ANKE HUBER:  Well, I think just to play consistent the tournament through, not just one or two matches.  To play also during the match consistent, like I did today.  I didn't make a lot of easy errors.  I didn't have like games where I was struggling a lot.  I think that's what I really have to improve, the consistency.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT