PILOT PEN INTERNATIONAL
August 27, 1998
Anke Huber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. You were pretty strong in that second set, but you couldn't quite turn it around?

ANKE HUBER: I played a little bit better in the second set, but I wasn't really happy
with the way I was playing. I always have problems when I play against her to get into the
match because she plays very deep, very long, so it is very hard -- you don't get the
rhythm. It is very hard to get into it. But I could have played better anyway.

Q. What did you not do that you wanted to do?

ANKE HUBER: Well, what I wanted to do I wanted to play aggressive and not to miss that
much. I missed a lot of forehands, especially returns, easy ones, and just I didn't go for
my shots when I should have. I think when I had the few chances - there were not too many
- but when I had them then I should have gone a little bit more for the winner or just
aggressive and I think I didn't do it.

Q. You have been off for a long time. You have tested yourself now against the hottest
player on the Tour. How do you think you measure up?

ANKE HUBER: Well, it is hard to say. I think I didn't serve well. I didn't play as good
as I could, but I think she also didn't play her best, so it is hard to say. But I think I
can play with the top players. If I play well, I can beat them, but I have to play much
better than I played today.

Q. Do you think -- do you feel good physically coming back from your injury?

ANKE HUBER: Physically I feel fine. Everything is okay, and I had a tough match
yesterday, so I feel okay. I just wasn't happy with the way I was playing.

Q. Can I ask you about your shitty draw your US Open?

ANKE HUBER: My what? My shitty draw? You can say it louder. Well, I think it could have
been better, say it that way. But you have to take it the way it is and it happens.

Q. Do you feel Majoli is there for beating at the moment? She has been struggling a
bit. 

ANKE HUBER: Sure, I played her a lot of times. Also won a lot of times against her. I
beat her quite many times, but it is always tough against her. It was always three sets,
very close matches, so, but she is beatable that is for sure. But it is not going to be
easy.

Q. Did you just have trouble with your serve the whole match? You didn't seem to get
any kind of rhythm going with your first serve?

ANKE HUBER: Not only my serve, yeah, I had troubles with my serve, definitely. But it
is hard, you have to serve well against her and she is returning very good, so, if you
don't serve well you can look around, also if it is in, so, some way you have to take the
risk and -- so -- but I still -- I just should have maybe played a little more first
serves.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT