PILOT PEN INTERNATIONAL
August 26, 1998
Anke Huber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Kind of a struggle in that second set to close the match?

ANKE HUBER: Yeah, it was tough for me today. Got a little bit nervous, I don't know
why, at 4-1 already. Somehow she started to play better. She was always playing better
when she was behind, starting to play more aggressive, so it was very hard for me. But,
well, I am happy that I got through.

Q. Do you think playing a match like this where you were ahead so far, she came back
but you pulled the match out, how much of a confidence booster is that for you?

ANKE HUBER: It still gives me a lot of confidence to win close matches anyway,
especially against the top players. So -- like I said, I am happy that I won it and even
when you are leading 4-Love, and you should win 6-1, 6-2, and you win it 7-6. Somehow it
is good for your confidence, maybe not good for your condition, but for your confidence.
It is okay.

Q. There were some close calls in the second set.

ANKE HUBER: Yeah, there was. I think the umpire wasn't the best one. I have had on both
sides it was -- especially at the end of the match, it was pretty bad.

Q. Were you getting frustrated when she was coming back in that set?

ANKE HUBER: I got a little bit frustrated because I was not aggressive enough at that
moment, and well, then, you know, when you are on the court you don't really see that she
is playing well. You always see that she is playing not good enough, yourself not playing
good enough. So it was very hard. I got a little bit too much frustrated because she was
really playing well at that moment and maybe I just -- I should have been quiet and just
played my game.

Q. At one time you were right on the cusp of a Top 5 player what kind of kept you out
of that Top 5, Top 10 this year?

ANKE HUBER: Well, this year I couldn't play half of the season, I was injured. Before,
it bothers me a lot. I couldn't really practice that much or that good as I wanted to. So
I am trying now again and let's see what happens.

Q. How close are you to being 100%, do you think? 

ANKE HUBER: Well, a little bit is still missing, but I am getting -- I am getting
there. Hopefully next two tournaments I am getting there.

Q. It seems that a lot of the players are coming back from injuries of different kinds
like Anna Kournikova has been injured and Steffi has been injured. Is that just you can't
play that much tennis without getting injured? It is tough on the body?

ANKE HUBER: Well, it depends what kind of injuries. I think Anna's was an accident. It
can happen all the time. Steffi, I think she is playing already a very long time on the
road and she had already many injuries. Me, I guess it was also from a lot of playing and
I am also almost ten years on the road, so, yeah, sure, you have to play a lot now last
two, three years because of the new raking system and it is tougher for the players. But
usually it shouldn't be a problem to do it.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT