PILOT PEN INTERNATIONAL
August 25, 1998
Anke Huber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. There didn't seem to be much wrong with your game tonight? 
 
 ANKE HUBER: Yeah, I played quite well. I am happy with the way I played. I think it is
getting better from game to game right now. 
 
Q. What has been the toughest thing about coming back from the injury?
 
 ANKE HUBER: I think the toughest is just to play matches again and to get into the
match. I started to play Fed Cup, and I think I wasn't ready to play and I had another
injury, so it was very difficult for me; then Boston, the first match, so it is hard to
play points, real points. I think you can do it as much as you want in practice, but it is
always different when you play a serious match in a tournament so you have to get used to
that again. 
 
Q. How many weeks was it you weren't on the court, where you weren't able to play?
 
 ANKE HUBER: I think it was about four months, a little bit more. 
 
Q. How did you spend all that time?
 
 ANKE HUBER: I was most of the time at home, and I just went for three days to Paris, to
the Grand Slam and otherwise. I was a lot at home, and I enjoyed it there. It was nice to
be six weeks in a row there. 
 
Q. Didn't get bored?
 
 ANKE HUBER: No, not really. I have to say not that much, no. I did a lot of things,
which I maybe cannot do usually and I practiced still a lot, that what I could do, I did.
So I wasn't really bored, no. 
 
Q. How long do you think it will be now before you are fully back on track? You are
saying you are getting better with each match.
 
 ANKE HUBER: I think it will take for sure a few more tournaments and a few more
matches, but I feel better, like I said, every week and practice too, so, maybe it
wouldn't take that long.  
 
Q. How tough was it coming back from the injury? Did you have to do any sort of rehab
or did you have to not practice for a long time?
 
 ANKE HUBER: It was a very tough rehab, I would say. Everyday the same things and over
and over again, so I think that was the toughest part to do it like eight weeks in a row,
not playing tennis just do other things, on the bike - you go to do that and that. It was
really tough for me, so I don't want to do it again for me, I have to say. 
 
Q. You played very strong from the baseline. Seemed like you had a lot of opportunities
to come in, yet you decided not to. Why was that?
 
 ANKE HUBER: Well, it is not my best part at the net, so -- but I still try to come in
more than I used to, but I think it was tough because the balls are quite heavy. The balls
are slow, so I really didn't know when to come. The court is also a little bit slower than
the outside courts, so it was tough to know which balls are good enough. I played the
first time there. But I have to come in, for sure, a little bit more; that is for sure.
But I think my shots from the baseline were good enough today so it was okay. 
 
Q. You broke her twice by coming in hitting backhand volleys?
 
 ANKE HUBER: Yeah, I played twice good. When it was important I came in, so that was
okay. 
 
Q. When you look at this field, how do you think you will do? What are your
expectations coming into this?
 
 ANKE HUBER: Well, it is a very strong field. I think it is one of the best tournaments
this year so far. I don't have any expectations yet. As I said, it is my third tournament
again. I am really happy that I can play again. I try to play my best and hopefully I win
a few more matches. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT