CHASE CHAMPIONSHIPS OF THE COREL WTA TOUR
November 18, 1996
Anke Huber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Anke a big disappointment?
 
ANKE HUBER: Sure, you lose the first round, and especially here I think it's always a big disappointment. 
 
Q. You played the last month, you played in a tough match, what was the difference in the two matches?
 
ANKE HUBER: It was similar to the last one, the last one in the first set I was behind 5-1 and lost it 7-5, and then I was down 3-Love until the second and I still won the match. It was a little bit similar. But today I didn't really came into the match, I didn't really feel like I was into the match like I was in the tournament before. And I didn't feel really comfortable on the court. So I think that was the reason today that I lost. 
 
Q. You started off badly with your serve, did that affect your confidence?
 
ANKE HUBER: For sure, in the beginning I just served so bad. It was just everything was so different on the court. And it's always strange to play the first time on a court again. But still it shouldn't happen like that. I think I made, I don't know, on the first three games I made 8 double faults, it shouldn't happen. Just bad. 
 
Q. Did you think you were going to come back after you rallied to 5-All? Did you think you would turn it around at that point?
 
ANKE HUBER: I think I played much better from 5-2 to 5-All. I had my chances at 5-All, I had my chances at 15-40 on her serve. And I gave it away, I think. I missed some easy shots. I had my chances in the first set, that's for sure. And I think if I make 6-5 or I maybe win the match, but you never know. So I didn't really feel comfortable the whole time on the court, the whole match and I think that was just the reason. I had not enough confidence out there today. 
 
Q. Would you say that considering you did so well last year, why shouldn't you feel confident?
 
ANKE HUBER: It's just every day is different. It was the first match, which is always difficult to play in a tournament. And I was happy to come back and I felt good in practice and the last couple of weeks or days, and just if you're on the court it's something different and suddenly you don't feel as good as you felt before. And that's what happened today. And I also think she played well and she didn't miss too much. So it was very difficult for me to play. 
 
Q. When you went down 3-Love in the second, you made a few careless errors after that. Do you kind of feel that the match was going and you wouldn't be able to come back?
 
ANKE HUBER: I think not at 3-Love because like the last match I was also down 3-Love in the second. But still at 4-1 I think I didn't really believe that I could win the match because I just didn't play as well as I should have to win it. And I didn't give up, I still tried, but just not, maybe not as hard as I did maybe the tournament before. It was just gone. It's the last tournament the end of the season, you also are going to be tired, maybe. And it was just -- well, it was just not as good as it should have been. 
 
Q. What are you planning to do now, you've got some time off?
 
ANKE HUBER: I'm going for vacation. Finally I make it. 
 
Q. What have you got planned?
 
ANKE HUBER: Well, something. 
 
End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT