THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 26, 1996
Anke Huber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Anke, what about her game today?  Seemed insurmountable compared to other times you played her? 

ANKE HUBER:  I played her I think the fourth time. I lost twice also very easy, but she also played pretty good.  Today I think was the best she ever played against me.  I didn't have a chance to find my rhythm, my own rhythm.  It was just very difficult.  She was against the wind, with the wind, she was just hitting the ball. Everything was going in.  It was just very difficult to play.  She put too much pressure on me already from the first ball.  Missed her service returns.  I just couldn't find the rhythm.  I'm sure I could have played better, just nothing much to do. 


Q.  After losing the first set 6-Love, do you try to do something else, another game plan? 

ANKE HUBER:  Well, the game was sometimes good, topspin high balls, just change the rhythm.  If somebody is playing like this, hitting the ball so hard, that much in front of the line, it's very difficult to do something.  I was always behind.  I couldn't do anything.  It was very difficult for me.  I'm not a slice specialist or going to the net or something like this, so it was just very difficult. 


Q.  So what do you think, you just chalk this up as a bad day at the office? 

ANKE HUBER:  I think I have to, yes.  There's no other way. 


Q.  The way she played today, do you think that she's a contender here?  Could she possibly win it? 

ANKE HUBER:  She had already a good chance at Indian Wells to beat Steffi.  I think if she is playing well, she has again a very good chance.  It's always difficult to beat a No. 1, so we will see. 


Q.  Where do you go from here? 

ANKE HUBER:  I go home. 


Q.  Fed Cup? 

ANKE HUBER:  Fed Cup, yes. 


Q.  Are the Olympics in your plans this year? 

ANKE HUBER:  Yes. 


Q.  Anke, is this the worst loss you've suffered this year? 

ANKE HUBER:  I guess so, yes.  I cannot remember. Seems so, I think.  I didn't even lose last year that badly.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT