THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 25, 1996
Anke Huber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Into the quarters with this victory.  Talk about how you played today. 

ANKE HUBER:  I wasn't satisfied with it at all.  I think I made too many easy errors, easy mistakes.  I'm not very happy about the way I played.  I'm just happy that I won and that I'm in the quarters, but I have to play much better tomorrow to win the next one. 


Q.  What was it you weren't satisfied with? 

ANKE HUBER:  I don't know.  Like I said, I made too many easy errors.  I didn't feel very good about my shots. In between, yes, I made some great shots and I made important points, because I won the match I guess, because I won the match.  It was just my serve was not good again. Well, it wasn't a great match, I just got through it let's say. 


Q.  You were up 4-1 in the second set, then again another concentration lapse? 

ANKE HUBER:  Not really.  She played, I think, two good games.  I couldn't do much there, so it wasn't that much concentration lapse as yesterday or the day before, yesterday or the day before I didn't feel like that.  Still, it shouldn't happen like that at 4-1, lose like three games in a row very easy.  It shouldn't happen, but well. 


Q.  Are you thinking about working with somebody because of the lapses in concentration at times? 

ANKE HUBER:  No.  I didn't have this in Australian, I didn't have it before in New York.  I don't know why it is.  Today was already better than yesterday and the day before.  I hope I can improve with each match. 


Q.  Anything you can point to where you're having trouble focusing in an entire match? 

ANKE HUBER:  No.  Today I really tried to concentrate.  With the concentration I felt much better than yesterday.  Still it wasn't good enough the whole match, I guess.  It was not so good in the first set.  I will see.  I think it's not a real problem.  It's just right now. 


Q.  What is a perfect day for Anke Huber on the tennis courts? 

ANKE HUBER:  A perfect day?  When everything goes fine, I win easy and I have no problems with any shots. It's a nice day. 


Q.  And then what, then head to the beach? 

ANKE HUBER:  Yeah, just go somewhere.  Yeah, yeah. 


Q.  Is that what you'll do today? 

ANKE HUBER:  A nice dinner.  What? 


Q.  What will you do today? 

ANKE HUBER:  I have to play doubles, fourth match, that's what I'm doing today. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT