VIRGINIA SLIMS CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 19, 1993
Anke Huber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Anke, it appeared that you started out a little slowly, a little bit tentative, maybe, a little slow and it just seemed to get -- your forehand, everything seemed to have more velocity on your forehand? 
 
ANKE HUBER:  In the beginning maybe I was a little bit too nervous.  I made everything too fast, my serve wasn't good enough, after a lot of doublefaults, but I just, yeah, I just tried to play my game afterwards and didn't think about anything, so I think that was the best way.  
 

Q.  A lot of long points, a lot of long games, what were you thinking through all -- 
 
ANKE HUBER:  I think it was good for me that there were a lot of long points because she doesn't has good conditioning, maybe not as good as me, so it was a little bit better for me that we played long points and long rallies.  Yeah, it was fine.  
 

Q.  Did you know she might have been struggling with an injury? 
 
ANKE HUBER:  No, I didn't know anything about it and I think it came during the game, I think so.  I didn't know anything about it.  
 

Q.  What would you say was the key to winning the match? 
 
ANKE HUBER:  The key?  Yeah, I think I played more aggressive than her.  I took the ball earlier than her and this surface, I think it is very important.  
 

Q.  When you were growing up, was Steffi your idol? 
 
ANKE HUBER:  No, because I started already before she came, so she never was my idol, no.  
 

Q.  So who was? 
 
ANKE HUBER:  Not really a woman's player.  I can't say there was any woman player was my idol.  And I never watched a lot of tennis on TV when I was young, so I cannot tell you any better.  
 

Q.  So you're playing her now in the semifinals now, Anke, what are you thinking? 
 
ANKE HUBER:  I don't expect too much, because I played her in the French Open and I played a horrible match, so I try not to expect anything from this, just go into the match and try to play my game.  
 

Q.  What did you learn from that confrontation, from your last match with Steffi that you can use this time? 
 
ANKE HUBER:  What I learn, yeah, I just have to play my game and not to think about anything, but it's very difficult against her.  I just want to match her all the time and want to play too good.  I just have to try to play my game and not try to do something different.  
 

Q.  What concerns you most about the way she plays? 
 
ANKE HUBER:  She has a very good serve, so she plays very hot, she takes the balls very early and she's fast.  It's very difficult to play against her for me, she run -- I cannot say what's the most difficult thing for me, it's just everything.  
 

Q.  When you play her, are you playing more than just a person, are you playing -- 
 
ANKE HUBER:  Excuse me?  
 

Q.  When you play against Steffi, are you playing more than just a person; are you playing the country of Germany, or what? 
 
ANKE HUBER:  No, not really --  
 

Q.  She's a heroin of yours -- 
 
ANKE HUBER:  Not really, I just said already before I just want to match all the time, I just want to play too good and when -- want to show too much of my game; sometimes crazy.  
 

Q.  So you're enjoying your first Virginia Slims, Huh? 
 
ANKE HUBER:  Yes, very much.  
 

Q.  How about the whole aspect of you being in the top ten now, is there a different feeling going on for you; do you feel added pressure, anything like that? 
 
ANKE HUBER:  That I'm top ten?  I'm already since two years, nearly two years top ten, so I think it's the same.  It's not any more pressure.  
 

Q.  Do you think you're going to have to come to the net more? 
 
ANKE HUBER:  Sure, I have to come to the net, but it's not my game, so I try it, but it's difficult for me to do it in the match.  I do it a lot in practice, but it's just not my game.  
 

Q.  By the same token, when you did come to the net tonight you were very successful; you were dropping those pretty little chip shots that she couldn't get to.  Did you notice that she was -- she seemed to be playing way back behind the baseline? 
 
ANKE HUBER:  Yes, she plays all the time like this. She is more a clay player than a player on this surface, fast surface, so I knew it before, sure.  
 

Q.  The crowd didn't really seem to be into it, did you get that feel or did you know that at all or -- the crowd -- 
 
ANKE HUBER:  They didn't?  
 

Q.  Didn't seem to be into it. 
 
ANKE HUBER:  Didn't?  
 

Q.  Right. 
 
ANKE HUBER:  I didn't have the feeling, I enjoyed it out there so I cannot really say that they didn't feel it, I don't know.  
 

Q.  She's ranked higher than you, yet you've beaten her three straight times in a row, right? 
 
ANKE HUBER:  Yes.  
 

Q.  Four, sorry.  What is your secret to defeating Conchita? 
 
ANKE HUBER:  I don't know, I feel a lot of confidence when I play against Conchita, now, today, yeah, I came into match and I thought I never lost against her so it is all the time better to play against somebody you never lost, it is easier for you, yeah, sure, and I like her game also so it's just, yeah, just I have a lot of confidence when I'm playing her.  
 

Q.  Do you get a feeling that you have to work really hard for every point you get?  You get very few freebies. 
 
ANKE HUBER:  Against her or what do you mean?  
 

Q.  Like just tonight. 
 
ANKE HUBER:  Today, yeah, sure, she does make a lot of easy errors, unforced errors so it's -- it's tough to play her, yeah, you have to do everything on your own, it is tough.  
 

Q.  One more thing.  Her forehand is obviously her most powerful stroke but she seems to be more consistent as far as putting it in play, keeping it in play off her backhand, you obviously, you were playing her backhand, did you think playing her forehand because she is kind of wild on that side? 
 
ANKE HUBER:  I, sure, but it's easier to play all the time cross court with her backhand than to play a long line, it is a very difficult shot so, yeah, I try to let her move a lot to play her forehand but if it is a little bit too short she comes in and plays very hard so if my shot is a little bit too short you have no chance.  I think I played the right game against her.  
 

Q.  Thank you. 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT