U.S. OPEN
September 1, 1992
Anke Huber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.   Did you think that you were able to get back into it
in that second set?

 ANKE HUBER:  You think all the time that you can come back, but
I just missed too many easy points and so--

 Q.   Are you very disappointed?

 ANKE HUBER:  I am disappointed because I never played good in
the U.S. Open.  Perhaps next year.

 Q.   A lot of people say this is a difficult place to play
compared to the other Grand Slams.  How do you find it?

 ANKE HUBER:  The difficult places like the other ones, you just
have to play your game and not to think about the other things,
so not because of this difficult to play.

 Q.   Are you more disappointed with this than previous disappointments
here?

 ANKE HUBER:  It is difficult to say.  The first year I lost against
Capriati, okay, it was a close match and second round, it was
also a big disappointment.  This year, I played very good last
week, so it helps me a little bit.

 Q.   Did she frustrate you the way she got back, you know,
so many balls that looked like they could have been winners?

 ANKE HUBER:  I think she played a very good match.  She played
first very consistently and second, I think in the end, she lost
a little bit concentration, so -- it was just, I don't know.

 Q.   Was it the kind of thing where you didn't feel like you
were playing well at all, all day, and you were trying to figure
out a way to fix it?  Were you having difficulty with your game
from the very beginning today?

 ANKE HUBER:  Yeah.  I couldn't find the rhythm.  I think it was
just from the beginning, I didn't make enough pressure.

 Q.   Since you had played well, last week, you said, when
you came in here, what were you hoping to do here?

 ANKE HUBER:  I knew that I have a very tough first round, so
I didn't think about it, the next round or something like this.
 But if I would have won this match, I think I had a good draw
after this, so just -- but I concentrate on this match, so--

 Q.   You had a good draw until--

 ANKE HUBER:  I don't know, by the second round, I think it was
very good.

 Q.   When you saved the three match points, did you think
that maybe she might get a little frustrated; that might turn
it in your way?

 ANKE HUBER:  Yeah, I hoped.  It wasn't.   

 End of FastScripts....            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT