PILOT PEN TENNIS
August 24, 2000
Anke Huber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Anke, I just wanted to ask, you know, I know this tournament is over now, and the fact that it's over, it might be disappointing for you, but how do you look ahead now to the U.S. Open? 

ANKE HUBER:  Hopefully I play a little better than here.  I looking forward to the open.  I played well last year and yeah, I'm happy to go there. 


Q.  This week of matches, how do you think that it's prepared you for the Open?  Is it good practice. 

ANKE HUBER:  I would have liked to have one more and not two in one day, that would have been maybe a little bit better.  But it's still good to have two matches, that I had two matches and hopefully I'm ready next week. 


Q.  How much of a distraction is it to have to play yesterday's suspended match today and another match after that? 

ANKE HUBER:  It was the same for both of us.  It wasn't easy.  You don't play usually two matches in a row.  It's not the physical thing, but you have to get motivated again and you have to get out there.  It was quite hot today, so it was, I guess, the hottest day since I was here.  So it wasn't easy, but it was the same for both of us, so I guess it didn't matter. 


Q.  How did you prepare for your second match between the two? 

ANKE HUBER:  Just normal for like any other match.  I had the break of almost two hours, so it was fine.  I felt okay, I mean, I started okay, and I should have won the first set.  And maybe it's going a different way if I win it. 


Q.  Would she be one of the last players that you would want to play on a day where you have to play two matches? 

ANKE HUBER:  Definitely, yes.  I mean you have to work for every point.  I mean, if you play two matches, you like to play another player the second match.  That's for sure.  Because you know if you lose the first set it's going to be very, very tough to win it.  Somehow it's in your mind and in your head, and I wasn't prepared for the second set to play another set to play a third set.  So yeah, I guess, she's one of the most difficult ones to play on such a day. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT