WIMBLEDON
June 28, 2000
Anke Huber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MODERATOR: Good afternoon, everyone. Anke Huber. 

Q. What were you thinking at the end of the first set?

ANKE HUBER: I don't know how I lost the game at 6-5. I was 40-Love up. Then it went so
quick, every point, I don't know. I was just thinking, "Just keep playing, yeah, try
to win the second." I was upset. I mean, it was not necessary that I lost it, the
first set.

Q. Were you pleased with your overall game today, Anke?

ANKE HUBER: I played two, three very good games always, and then I had two which I
didn't play so good, so it was up-and-down. It was okay. Maybe I should have come to the
net a little bit more, don't make so many errors. I made a lot of easy mistakes in some
important moments, on break points, which I shouldn't have done. It's okay. I won and
that's the most important thing.

Q. You seemed to be getting slightly frustrated. 

ANKE HUBER: For me it was quiet. I was okay. Sure you get frustrated if you have a few
break points and you don't make them or if you miss a few shots which you shouldn't.
Still, for me, I felt okay. I just tried to play every point.

Q. Did you feel at any stage that you could lose that match?

ANKE HUBER: It's hard to say. You never think about it when you are not really, really
down. I never thought about losing it. I just tried to play every point, every game. I
still had a good feeling even when I lost the first set. I was up 2-Love immediately. I
didn't really think that I could lose it because I wasn't down that much. She played well
and it was always tough for me.

Q. That is the best of British female tennis. Are you surprised that British women
aren't better?

ANKE HUBER: What should I say to that (laughter)? Well, like I said, she played very
well today. She played good grass court tennis and it was very tough for me. Her backhand
slice, she hit the forehand well, she really hit some great shots. But I don't know what I
should say if it's the best. She played good today. I don't know what she's going to do in
the future. For sure, she could do well.

Q. Steffi is not here this year. Does that make any difference to the other German
players or not? Was she a role model, or you have to do your own thing?

ANKE HUBER: Yeah, everybody has to do their own thing. She's missing in German tennis,
especially on the women's side. There is not really anybody who maybe has a chance to win
Wimbledon right now. But, like I said, everybody's doing their own thing. I guess we don't
think much about it. 

Q. Next match you're playing against Tina Pisnik, who you know from some practise
sessions. What are your thoughts about this match?

ANKE HUBER: It's not going to be easy like today. She also has a good slice, a good
serve. On grass, everything is possible. It's going to be a tough match, but I'm looking
forward to it. 

Q. Are you a football follower?

ANKE HUBER: Football? 

Q. Yes. 

ANKE HUBER: I followed until the Germans went out. Right now I'm not really into it. 

Q. I wondered how you felt about your team's abysmal performance?

ANKE HUBER: How should I feel? Not very good, disappointing. It's the same as in
tennis. It's possible in sports, so next time. 

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT