NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: METS v BRAVES
October 19, 1999
Eddie Perez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Eddie, was your success in this series the by-product of you working on anything
different or the Mets pitching you differently or anything from the regular season
different?
 
 EDDIE PEREZ: Not really. I know that I'm going to have the chance to have somebody on
base every time, because they're not going to pitch to the guys in front of me like
Chipper or Brian. I don't think that I hit the ball good in the whole season. And there's
another chance to be in the playoff and change everything, and that's what I tried to do,
tried to hit the ball better. And that's it. 
 
Q. Eddie, you think you're going to like hearing "Eddie," the chant
"Eddie," for a few more weeks there?
 
 EDDIE PEREZ: That's the easiest name for them to say. But I like it. I like when our
crowd gets into the game, because that's what we need from them. That's what they've been
doing the last few weeks. 
 
Q. How does it feel to be the MVP, and before this award, what's the biggest thing
you've ever won as a baseball player?
 
 EDDIE PEREZ: I think this is the biggest thing that happened to me. Winning the World
Series in '95, it was nice, but I don't have the chance to play. Now I've got the chance
to play and win National League Championship, and that feels good. I think that's the
biggest moment. And hopefully, this will be my biggest moment, the next step. 
 
Q. How big was it for you, personally, to have Andres in uniform and with the club in
September?
 
 EDDIE PEREZ: Since last year, that was the first time that I played with him together
on the same team. And it was unbelievable. He's bigger than the Pope; he's like Michael
Jordan over there. And to have him around me and talk to me about hitting is nice. And
Javy was with me all the time, helping me what kind of pitch I have to call. A lot of
stuff hitting, too. Javy is one of my best friends on the team. They don't stay home and
watch the game. They come here every day and try to help me and everybody because that's
what we need from those guys. 
 
Q. Eddie, what do you know about the Yankees pitchers?
 
 EDDIE PEREZ: We played them in the interleague this year, and I think we played real
good. They've almost got the same starting rotation that we saw in the series. And almost
the same one as in '96 when we faced them in the World Series. I don't know if they're
pitching different. I think we have to play better than we did the last four games, that's
for sure. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT