NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: METS v BRAVES
October 13, 1999
Brian Jordan
Eddie Perez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Eddie, you going to make a habit of this, and how much are you enjoying this?
 
 EDDIE PEREZ: I've been enjoying this since I've been playing every day. So right now,
that's what we need from -- because I don't want to pitch against those guys, Chipper and
Brian. So I told Andruw before yesterday's game: "Be ready, because we're going to
see somebody on base every time we're going." It's a good feeling. Right now -- it's
not over yet. We have to keep pushing and go to New York and try to win two over there
now. 
 
Q. Brian, why don't you take some time and tell us how much you relish this situation?
 
 BRIAN JORDAN: I love it. It's my competitive nature. I guess it's my football
mentality. I love when people challenge me. And if the Mets want to continue to walk
Chipper to get to me, then I'm just going to continue to take advantage of those
opportunities. So far, I've been pretty fortunate throughout the series to do so. 
 
Q. Kevin said maybe going back to New York 2-0 might make the Mets press just a little
bit because it's such a hot town up there and so forth, and being in the hole. Could I get
both of you men to respond to that? How do you think this is going to affect the Mets?
 
 EDDIE PEREZ: Well, 2-0 is better than 0-2. And we're playing very good in New York as
you know. We played good against them the whole year long, and we play good in there, too.
We have to play the same way we played there last month or whatever, two weeks ago, but we
don't have to change anything. We have to play the same way we played them the whole year,
and don't change anything. 
 BRIAN JORDAN: I don't think the Mets are going to be pressing, believe me. Those guys,
their backs have been up against the wall at the end of the season, and been coming out
smelling like roses. Right now, they're happy to be in a championship and going out and
having fun. They continue to battle and fight and find a way to win. Believe me, we're
going to New York, and those guys definitely want to win, and win three, in New York.
We've got our work cut out for us. 
 
Q. Eddie, what was the pitch, and did you feel that he was weakening some? Were you
thinking that we're finally getting to this guy and that you might be able to get
something out of this at bat?
 
 EDDIE PEREZ: I don't know what kind of pitch it was. I think it was a change-up. But
that surprised me that he was there when I was hitting because I look in their dugout and
I saw their pitching coach ready to take him out. I saw him go back. I think Valentine
called him and they left him in. I was looking for a good pitch to hit. And telling you
the truth, I was looking for that curve ball. Because he threw it to Andruw in the first
pitch, and he was doing that the first pitch, curve ball, to everybody. I was looking for
that one. And then he threw me the change-up, and I hit it on the good part of the bat and
it went out. 
 
Q. The crowd chanting, "Eddie, Eddie," how did that affect you?
 
 EDDIE PEREZ: That's the easiest name for them to say. That's why they're saying it
(laughter). I'm not thinking about that. I try to do the job so they can keep cheering for
me. 
 
Q. Do you think the fans are going to forget Javy now? 
 
 EDDIE PEREZ: I don't think so. I think next year they'll forget about me because Javy
will play every day. 
 
Q. Brian, your game plan in that at-bat on the home run, are you sitting on something
there, or can you talk a little bit about your approach at that at-bat?
 
 BRIAN JORDAN: My first two at-bats. I was very impatient and I was swinging at balls.
And I was trying to pull an outside pitch. This was my first time facing Rogers. I didn't
know what to expect. After seeing him twice, I had to realize that I had to be patient and
take what he gave me. If he froze it outside, try to go that way. And I was fortunate that
it went a long way and it stayed fair. 
 
Q. Eddie, you had already had a single off Rogers. Were you glad to face him in that
situation?
 
 EDDIE PEREZ: Yeah, I wanted to face him instead of somebody else, the fresh arm coming
from the bullpen. Like I say, I got surprised when they left him in there. And I saw how
much every pitch he was throwing -- I was ready for him. I was ready for any kind of
strike, anything for a strike to swing at. 
 
Q. Eddie, do you feel like you've become sort of the hero for back-up players in how
well you've kept yourself ready and risen to your opportunity here?
 
 EDDIE PEREZ: I don't think so. The Mets got their back-up catchers. They're here
because of him, Pratt. One of the things to be a back-up catcher, you have to be ready
when the big guy is down. I just have to do the best I can to win this game, and my main
thing is catching. And I'm just going to try to hold the right pitch, and whatever it
comes to hit at when I'm at bat, I'm going to do it. It's not over yet. We have to go to
New York and try to do our best. 
 
Q. Eddie, you said you saw that pitching coach up and ready. Was that before Andruw or
after Andruw --
 
 EDDIE PEREZ: After Andruw, when I walked out there, they were talking about him -- him
and Valentine were talking, and I thought they would take him out because they had
somebody else ready in the bullpen, and I'm glad they didn't. 
 
Q. You didn't want to wait once you got out there?
 
 EDDIE PEREZ: I was looking for a good pitch to hit, no matter what kind of pitch it
was. I was looking for a good hit in the strike zone. I talked about what was my
experience with Big Cat and Javy, and they are both here trying to help me.  
 
Q. Brian, are you maybe going to draw on your experience in '96 to keep the team from
looking too far ahead?
 
 BRIAN JORDAN: Definitely. I still have memories every day about '96 with the St. Louis
Cardinals, we were up 3-1 and we ended up losing the series, and Atlanta went onto the
World Series. Definitely, you never know what's going to happen. You have to go out and
give 110 percent and try to kick them when they're down, basically. That's the attitude
you have to have. We're not going to get complacent. We know the Mets are not going to
quit. They're going to come at us hard, and we have to be prepared to go at them hard. 
 
Q. Eddie, when you singled earlier, were you concerned about being picked off?
 
 EDDIE PEREZ: I wasn't moving at all, because when he threw Andruw out, I swung and I
was hitting. I swing the bat and he threw to first (laughter). 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT