U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2015
Mathilda Cappeliez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  So you started off with a birdie; kind of calm you down a little bit, and then all pars?  MATHILDA CAPPELIEZ: Yeah, yeah.  I mean, that was a great day.  I played solid golf, and I think, yeah, that was enough to win.  I made some up-and-downs.  I was like twice in the bunkers, but I mean, I was always like close to the holes, so that was easy.  She did some mistakes.  She did no birdies, so that was quite tough for her. But yeah, just keep going, and if you don't make any mistakes, any bogeys, for sure I think you will win.   Q.  What were your expectations coming into this week?  What did you hope to accomplish?  Did you have a goal?  MATHILDA CAPPELIEZ: I mean, I didn't play like pretty good in the beginning of the season.  I mean, I did a really good one last year, and since that one, I changed my swing and my grip, I mean, everything on my swing, and that was really important.  That was the right moment to do it.  So that was like -- I didn't play so good this season, but since that summer, my swing is really good, and I mean, always is better than before.  So I think -- I mean, right now I'm playing good.  Putting is always nice.  I mean, this is, I think, like my bigger part of the game, the putting.   Q.  Your best part?  MATHILDA CAPPELIEZ: Yeah, the best part, and so right now I'm in good shape, so I think it's why I'm here and I'm confident, so that's good.   Q.  What was the grip change you made?  MATHILDA CAPPELIEZ: I mean, that was not my -- it's not enough over, so it's why.  I mean, I have a tendency to do draw instead of straight.  I mean, there was too much draw or too much fade, but it was hard to do in the middle and to -- yeah.   Q.  Were most of these changes with your French coach or with Henry over here?  MATHILDA CAPPELIEZ: Both.  I mean, both of them.  Henry started with me this winter, and after the French coach like followed that way, and they were thinking the same.   Q.  So they talked about it and they communicated?  MATHILDA CAPPELIEZ: You know, I've got like this, an app where I can follow -- no, they can follow my swing.  I just post my swing on videos, and they can follow like my swing, my comments, and I mean, so --   Q.  What's that called, your app?  MATHILDA CAPPELIEZ: Edufy, I think.   Q.  So tell me what you do outside of golf.  What are your other interests?  MATHILDA CAPPELIEZ: Unfortunately I left school.  I mean, after my first semester last year, because it was not possible to play good golf and make some good studies, that was too hard, so unfortunately I leave my friends, and I went to the U.S. But after I come back here, I'm really -- I like to hang out with my friends, definitely.  My social life is like all my life.   Q.  So you quit school when exactly?  MATHILDA CAPPELIEZ: In December.   Q.  December of 2014?  MATHILDA CAPPELIEZ: Yeah.   Q.  And you came to America?  MATHILDA CAPPELIEZ: Yeah, three months, for the whole winter, at the Indiana Academy, so that was with like 10 people in the house.  I was with Sierra.  I'm pretty close with her.  I like this and I like doing sports in general, tennis.  I'm very competitive, so that's why.   Q.  So what are your plans then if you've quit school?  Could you still go to college if you wanted to?  MATHILDA CAPPELIEZ: I mean, I'm still in school, but it's like home schooling.  It's a home schooling program.  I think it's not easier.  It's like maybe tougher, and you have to work by your own.  I've got teachers, but that's not so funny than going to school with friends.  But anyway, that was a good solution, and I've got only one year, one more year to go, and after it's college.   Q.  Are you thinking about going to Q-school next year?  MATHILDA CAPPELIEZ: Yeah, yeah.  I mean, Q-school and start my freshman year, also, in college.   Q.  So then you have kind of two options?  MATHILDA CAPPELIEZ: Yeah, and I will see what happens.   Q.  So what schools are you looking at?  Have you made any visits?  MATHILDA CAPPELIEZ: Yeah.  I've made some, but I don't have commitment right now, and I don't know where I'm -- I need to do visits, and yeah, think more about it.  But I've got until like December, or before December to choose.  I prefer to keep my time and yet do visits before.   Q.  Playing in front of TV cameras, I know this is different because you're not at home and it's not like all your buddies are watching on TV, but do you get nervous?  How do you handle nerves?  MATHILDA CAPPELIEZ: I already had these feelings before.  I played the U.S. Women's Open last year, and that was the same.  I made the cut, so there were TVs and I was a little bit nervous at first, but after, you just realize that if you're playing good, if you hit a good shot, I mean, everybody will like applaud for sure, and if you're not, they will not.  That's it.  I was just glad that they applaud, so just like keep going, keep through, and maybe they will, maybe they will not.  But anyway, it's just your game, and everyone misses shots.   Q.  How many USGA events have you played in?  MATHILDA CAPPELIEZ: I mean, I played one U.S. Open and two U.S. Amateurs.   Q.  This is your third one?  MATHILDA CAPPELIEZ: No, the second.   Q.  What was the first one?  MATHILDA CAPPELIEZ: No, I didn't make the cut.   Q.  When was it?  MATHILDA CAPPELIEZ: Last year.  It's because I made the cut at the U.S. Open, so you're invited for two years in a row.   Q.  It's been a big year for French golf.  Romain, I don't know if you know him, he won the British Amateur, and obviously Celine won the Ladies British.  You guys could make it a hat trick here.  MATHILDA CAPPELIEZ: I know, yeah, that was awesome.  Yeah, I know really good Romain, and Celine, as well, she's always on my team, and I went to the British, also, but I lost my second match, but yeah, it's -- I mean, France is growing up, and that's really good.   Q.  Your European team championship, the women, did the girls win, too, or just the ladies?  MATHILDA CAPPELIEZ: No, I was in the girls last year and we won, but no, this year they finished like the last of the flight, of their flight, but no, only us won.   Q.  Celine was on that team with you?  MATHILDA CAPPELIEZ: No.   Q.  She was playing in Lancaster, right?  MATHILDA CAPPELIEZ: No, she was supposed to be on the team and she was supposed to be the leader of the team, but she went to the U.S. Open and for her it was the best choice, so we were really glad to win without her.   Q.  So it was Justine, Shannon, you --  MATHILDA CAPPELIEZ: There were Marion Veysseyre, Manon Gidali and Ines Lescudier.  I mean, Manon and Ines were on the first stage of Q-school, as well, but they didn't play so good.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT