U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 10, 2015
Mathilda Cappeliez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  First off, it looked like you had a pretty steady round.  Can you talk about that?  MATHILDA CAPPELIEZ: Yeah, I played steady golf.  The course was not so easy.  The two practice rounds, we had like very good comparative on the greens.  They were pretty hard to putt on.  But that was -- even that was tough.  Yeah, I just played golf and putted really, really good and no bogeys on the card, so that helped for me.  I played good, and I will see tomorrow what happens, but pretty confident in my game, so that was good.   Q.  Can you talk about those two birdies you made?  MATHILDA CAPPELIEZ: Yeah, only two birdies on the card, but I was like maybe closer than the others, and yeah, I putted really good.  Only two putts.  I had almost even or -- yes, no three-putts, so it helped for me.  That was pretty good.  I didn't chip in, but almost, on my third hole, so the 12th, so yeah, I mean, the couple of first holes, I didn't play so good, so I was always needing to get up-and-down, but I always chipped and putted.  That was a pretty good round, yeah.   Q.  You said no three-putts.  Is putting what you were most pleased with today?  What other parts of your game were you happy with?  MATHILDA CAPPELIEZ: I mean, my driving was not so good, but even if it was not so good, it was a little bit on the right or on the left but no penalized with the rough, so that was a good thing because when you are in the rough you always need to get a lay-up on the fairway.  So maybe, yeah, better with my driving, but my irons were pretty good, so hopefully I can use my putting, as well, because the greens are tough.   Q.  What mindset do you take into tomorrow?  MATHILDA CAPPELIEZ: I mean, just keep going and play that good golf.  If I maybe drive it much better, maybe I can putt -- I mean, make more birdies on the card, so maybe that would help.  No bogeys is always like -- it doesn't happen every day.  I will work at it a little bit before the next round and see what happens tomorrow, yeah.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT