TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 21, 2019
Evan Rambo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Evan, what's this defense been doing so well? I know it was only one this week but in general to force 13 turnovers. What do you think you guys have been doing well to force some of those?  
EVAN RAMBO: I believe just applying pressure and just being able to withstand coverage. The more we can route our quarterback, the more that they'll start getting inconsistent with what they see, the more their timing is off with receivers in routes, and when the ball is in the air it's just a lot of guys making plays.   
 Q.  And talking about the D line on the front. Coach mentioned he didn't get the pressure that he wanted. How much does it help you guys in the back as far as turnovers making you guys even better on the secondary?  
EVAN RAMBO: Yeah. They're real destructive when we're hitting back there, when our blitzes are hitting home. It sends a lot of fear to the quarterbacks, and a lot of quarterbacks don't want to get hit. And as soon as they see someone in their sites, they're going to go with the first thing they see. And if we can cause a lot of trouble for quarterbacks like that, we can get our hands on the ball.   
 Q.  Did Iowa State do anything different up front in terms of their offense line schematically or was it just a good performance by them?  
EVAN RAMBO: They did a lot of slides with their line. They were able to check whenever they could see us blitzing, did a good job at that. First sign of any movement, if he thought anybody was going to blitz, he checked his sideline, checked his linemen, give hot routes to receivers, slide protection and be able to fill the gaps, and then he'll just throw the ball as fast as he can. So they were smart on that end. Being able to see those type of things checking. So credit to him being able to do that. But we still just need to get our pressure going.   
 Q.  On adjustments the offensive line made...  
EVAN RAMBO: Yeah. He did a lot of offensive line adjustments as well. So credit to him for that.   
 Q.  Currently sitting at 0 and 3 on the road. Is that something that we're kind of overrating in the media here or is that something you guys talk about, think about as a team, getting that road win?  
EVAN RAMBO: I mean it's definitely something that's thought about. We gotta win on the road. You can't get to a bowl game, you can't win this conference without winning on the road. It's definitely a lot harder. I mean you're behind the 8 ball with the fans and the crowd and things like that. You're out of your comfort zone, but it's something you have to do. So we just gotta lock in and just get done. We gotta be able to win on the road. That's just plain and simple. That's just football.   
 Q.  Adjustments from what you guys have done these last couple of weeks that you think can put you over the edge this week?  
EVAN RAMBO: I mean really just us. It's just a lot of just, I mean, technique, linemen, things like that. And just whenever we're standing guards, we just gotta get there. We just gotta execute our assignments. In college football, in this league there's a lot of talent. The teams that execute the best are the teams that win.   
 Q.  Looking ahead, what have you seen out of Pooka Williams on tape so far?  
EVAN RAMBO: Speedy guy. He knows how to make plays. He knows where to find the holes. He knows how to run the ball. He knows how to use his strengths to beat teams and beat opponents. He works in that offense very well. And besides him they have a good quarterback. He knows how to make plays on his own and get his receivers to get the ball. So we just gotta deal with that. But it starts within us, once again, executing our assignments, getting our techniques right and just owning up to locking down and being as explosive as we can to get out there and make plays.   
 Q.  How important is a fast start from the offense on the road? Like for you guys defensively, does it give you momentum knowing that they're doing their parts? Does it get you the extra juice to do yours?  
EVAN RAMBO: Right. It's just everybody feeding off each other, whether it's offense or even special teams. We just as a collective unit, as a team, we just gotta start off fast, everybody. Defense, I mean we put our team behind spotting those 20 points. So that's on us. We love when the offense is able to score because we can feed off that energy, too. We get a big return on special teams, if somebody goes down there on kickoff and gets a big hit, we love that. So we just try to find the juice wherever we can throughout this entire team.   
 Q.  Did you watch any of that Kansas-Texas game on Saturday night?  
EVAN RAMBO: Yeah. It was wild. I don't think anybody really expected it to go that way. But it's just another thing about college football. You never know what can happen. You gotta show up to play every game. You can't under estimate your opponents at all.   
 Q.  Does a game like that kind of a wake-up call for some guys in the locker room, where it's, oh, it's just Kansas, but they almost just took out the Longhorns in Austin.  
EVAN RAMBO: No. I don't believe so. We have a motto of respect everyone but fear nobody. So we're going to go in, if they would have won, hey, let's figure out the game plan, we still gotta stop them. If they would have lost, let's figure out the game plan, still gotta stop them. So all we do is worry about our battles as much as we can.   
 Q.  Evan, after you missed those couple of games, how well do you feel like you've come back and done with your old playing time?  
EVAN RAMBO: Yeah, I feel good. Just understand this game and just believing that I can go out there and just make plays. Try not to overthink everything, believe in my abilities, believe what I see. And just go out there and just playing. So even when I was out, I was still trying to get as ready as possible to be able to play.   
 Q.  How much tape have you watched of Kansas? Is it just the last game or are you still progressing through tape of other games this season?  
EVAN RAMBO: Still progressing. We're still deciphering this last game against Texas to really see, because we like to be able to see everybody's current things because a lot of trends, a lot of teams are repetitive in what they do week to week. So we try to see what do they like to do, what are their trends, what are their schemes that they like to run against certain defenses that we run. So it's progressive throughout the week. We're getting down to getting a solid game plan this week.   
 Q.  On a day like Saturday when your game is over at 3:00 or so and you're out of here by 4:00, do you watch other Big 12 games? Like did you watch any of Kansas and Texas on Saturday night on TV?  
EVAN RAMBO: Yeah. Definitely -- I mean I think all of us were watching the Kansas-Texas game once we left here. It's just really as much college football as general when it's ever on. It's one of the things about those early games, you're able to see the rest of the country and what everybody else is doing as well.   
 Q.  Did you have a rooting interest in that game?  
EVAN RAMBO: No. No. We try and beat everybody, so I don't care who wins that game or loses. We gotta go 1 and 0 each week.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT