NBA DRAFT 2019
June 20, 2019
Coby White
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Could you talk about your style and what you'll bring to your new team?  
COBY WHITE: Leadership, fast pace, can get up and down the court, can score the ball in a variety of ways, get my teammates involved.  Just a competitor and a player who has the will to win.   
 Q.  This is the first time you'll be heading out of state on a permanent basis.  Any thoughts about going to the city of Chicago, big town, gets a little cold there in the winter?  Any thoughts on the city?  
COBY WHITE: Yeah, it's a great city.  They have a great fan base.  I'm excited.  This is my first time -- it's a change, but it's a great change.  It's going to be an adjustment. I'm excited.  It should be great.   
 Q.  Somebody else from North Carolina had a great career in Chicago.  I was wondering if you might have been in touch with him sometime.  Have you been in touch with him and will you be in touch with him to ask him about Chicago?  
COBY WHITE: I don't know.  I can't tell you that right now.  But I've seen him on campus a couple times.  I haven't really got a chance to really sit down and talk to him.   
 Q.  When your name was announced and you're walking to the podium, what's going through your head?  
COBY WHITE: Don't trip.  Don't trip.  You get a rush of feelings and emotions that I feel like that you really can't describe.  You worked so hard for this your whole life, and when you're finally here, you know it's a relief for sure.   
 Q.  Given you grew up in North Carolina, are you going to go back to get your degree at Chapel Hill?  
COBY WHITE: Yeah, I'm definitely going to go back and finish.  I promised my mom, Coach Williams and myself that I would go back and get my degree.   
 Q.  What do you want to study?  
COBY WHITE: I'm not sure yet.  It's between exercise science and sports management, but those two can change at any time.  You know how majors are.   
 Q.  You wrote a really touching piece in the Players' Tribune.  Obviously writing that must have been so much of an emotional roller coaster.  I'm sure he was on your mind all night as you were walking to the podium.  Talk to us about that.  
 A. Yeah, he's been on my mind all day.  It's hard for me right now.  I'm excited, but it's also hard for me because I would give anything to have him here with me tonight and let him see me walk across the stage.  But you know, I've just got to enjoy the moment.  My family is here.  A lot of people came to see me.  It's great from that aspect.  I have such a supporting base.  Just got to keep moving.   
 Q.  Cameron Johnson just went 11th.  How do you react to that news?  
COBY WHITE: Cam went 11th?   
 Q.  Yeah, it's right on the screen right there.  
COBY WHITE: Wow.  Wow.  Wow, bro!  That's crazy.  That's so low, bro.  Y'all know Cam?  You don't know how hard Cam worked.  There's a lot of people that doubt him.  But wow, that's crazy, bro.  Wow, that's so crazy.  I'm so happy for him right now.  Y'all don't understand how happy I am for Cam.  He proved it night in, night out that he deserves to be in the conversation for a lottery pick, man.  He shot the ball like anybody I've never seen before in my life or played with.  Wow.  I'm getting chills up here.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT