WIMBLEDON
June 25, 2012
Joshua Goodall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







G. ZEMLJA/J. Goodall
  6‑4, 3‑6, 7‑6, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Tight game.   He won the crucial games.   Is that a fair description?
JOSH GOODALL:   Yeah, I was looking at one of the boards, and it was coming up with stats at the change of ends and I saw that even in the fourth set he was only like five or six points ‑‑well, the third set was the big one, the tiebreak.   I thought it was really crucial.   I was up a break as well. 
If I had consolidated that break straightaway, it could have been different.   If I'm putting myself in these situations and I'm not taking advantage of them, I'm disappointed.

Q.   What can you do to change that?   That's the thing.   Is there anything?
JOSH GOODALL:   I don't know.   I have to maybe look at the way I'm playing those games.   Maybe I'm going for too much, but I need to look back at it, because I don't feel like ‑‑I don't think he won those games.   I think I lost them. 
In the tiebreak I served a double fault at 4‑All, so if he was hitting a winning return, then I can look back and say, Well, I did my best, but that's why I'm annoyed.   Double fault and losing it; he's not winning it.

Q.   I remember in previous years you saying the same thing, as well. 
JOSH GOODALL:   It's a habit that has to change.   If I was getting thrashed every time I could say, Well, I'm not good enough. 
I don't feel like that's the case.   I feel like I'm getting chances to win matches, and I'm just not taking them.

Q.   Do you ever work with a sports psychologist or anything like that?   Have you done that?
JOSH GOODALL:   Well, I don't work ‑‑I only have my dad as my coach, so I don't really have much else to work with.   I'm not financially in the best state.   I mean, obviously playing Wimbledon helps a lot, but I've got rent to pay and stuff like that.   I can't really afford things.

Q.   Because you don't get the Aegon funding? 
JOSH GOODALL:   No.

Q.   Is that your decision or their decision?
JOSH GOODALL:   It was their decision.   It was taken away a couple years ago.   I get access to bonuses, which if I did certain tournaments I get access to bonus money.   But other than that, no, I don't have any help.

Q.   Any chance of that changing?
JOSH GOODALL:   I don't know, to be honest.   I really don't.   I don't think that's the reason ‑‑I'm not blaming that.   That's got nothing to do with it. 
It's like the psychology things, I'm kind of skeptical of stuff like that.   I have had help in the past, and the end of the day I think it's down to yourself to work on things like that.

Q.   On the plus side, despite today, I remember sitting here ‑ I think we both remember ‑ a year or two ago, talking to you, and you were disillusioned a bit with your own game and disillusioned with the financial situation.   You seemed on the verge of chucking it. 
JOSH GOODALL:   At this time last year I pretty much gave up singles.   I was going to go down the doubles route.
Then I went two months really hard in the gym, and I was still playing singles in more of a relaxed way and I won a lot of tournaments.   Then that made me think, Hang on.   I started to believe in myself again.   I ended up winning like eight futures and made ten finals in the last ten months.   That's got me to my ranking.   Then I started to realize maybe I do have a chance again. 
But at the end of the day, these are matches you need to win.   If you need to make a good living out of this sport, the matches today are the ones that are going to make a difference.   I mean, I could probably hang around being 200 in the word for the rest of my career, but is that really what I want?   I don't think it is. 

Q.   How old are you now, 26?
JOSH GOODALL:   26.   I want to be top 100.   If I want to be top 100, I need to win those tiebreaks.   I need to consolidate those breaks.   That's something I'm really going to have to look at and change soon, because there's not many times ‑‑well, same thing happened in Eastbourne.   I was a break up against Ebden and I lost that match 7‑6 in the third, as well. 
So that's the disappointing thing.   I mean, those are the things I've got to change.

Q.   Are you definitely keen to carry on for now?
JOSH GOODALL:   Yeah, for sure.   I'm not so fancy to give up.   I would have given up a long time ago, but I've got to sort through those chances and take them.

Q.   Is it a matter of slowing down and taking your time in those situations when you get into them?   You do get into situations where you're always 5‑4 and then it just slips away. 
JOSH GOODALL:   I play big tennis.   I always go for my winners.   Never afraid to go for my winners.   Maybe sometimes you need to reign back a bit and just put the ball in the court. 
You watch some of the top guys and you see them play and you think, Well, hang on.   Big points just going down the middle, making their opponent go for the big shot. 
At the moment, I'm not doing that.   I'm just being a bit crazy with my shot selection.   That's something I really need to look at.

Q.   Making the guy think more at the other end? 
JOSH GOODALL:   To be fair, I actually thought he played really well today.   He was hitting his backhand very well.   He came up with some really big shots.   His service percentage, the games I broke, I actually felt I played really good games to break, and he didn't give me a lot of chances.
So other than actually being a little disappointed, I have to hand it to him because he played a good match today.   I'm going into that match as the underdog.

Q.   Do you think there is a bit of a misconception?   I mean, you were saying financially it's not that easy.   I think sometimes people on the outside think, Oh, I know it's the money, and living around the world... 
JOSH GOODALL:   That's the funny thing.   I'm No. 4 in Great Britain.   I'm making a living.   Don't get me wrong.   If I want to put down a deposit on a house, which is what I'm looking to do, the problem lies at the moment where I'm having to win to do it.   There are pressures that not everyone is under, and it's quite difficult, because I have basically ‑‑in this country, it's a bit different because we have financial support with Aegon and stuff, but...

Q.   That's always been the way, isn't it, the difference between, say, being 200 and inside the top 100?
JOSH GOODALL:   It's a massive difference, for sure.

Q.   I don't think that is appreciated. 
JOSH GOODALL:   When you look at the level of prize money from this tournament to the one I'd probably be playing next week, it's a little bit different.

Q.   Is it fair to say you were getting a bit frustrated with Hawk‑Eye out there?
JOSH GOODALL:   One, I didn't really believe.   Then, yeah, the backhand passing shot he had, I would have put my life on it being wide, but it hit the line apparently.
You have to go with it, obviously.   It must be me getting it wrong, not the Hawk‑Eye.

Q.   Did it did seem everything was going in his favor?
JOSH GOODALL:   Yeah.   There was one I was a little bit annoyed with to break me in the fourth set.   I actually did react to the line judge's call.   Yeah, it was only a foot away from me.   I could have made that.   I was a bit unhappy with the umpire's decision to say the point was definitely over.   But you have to go ‑‑there's not a lot you can do about it. 

Q.   Playing on a show court?
JOSH GOODALL:   I was happy to play on Court 3.   That was a nice court.

Q.   Biggest court you've played on?
JOSH GOODALL:   Had a really intimate feeling to it.   The crowd was close, and I really enjoyed playing on it.   Especially when I got the momentum after I won the second set and I went a break up, I felt really comfortable. 

Q.   And you are in the doubles?
JOSH GOODALL:   Still dubs to look forward to.   Playing with James.   Playing Qureshi and Rojer.   I've actually beaten Qureshi and Rojer before.

Q.   I saw the doubles record.   You're pretty good. 
JOSH GOODALL:   Yeah, with Chris.   James, we play well together because we both take our singles game to the doubles court, and we have had some good results.   We have won a challenger before, and we only just lost to Bhupathi and Paes in the Commonwealth Games.
We're comfortable playing together.   I think we can be trouble for everyone.

Q.   That's Wednesday, I suppose?
JOSH GOODALL:   I have no idea.   I think it may depend on what he does in the singles. 

Q.   Are you inspired by Chelsea?
JOSH GOODALL:   I watched the match last night.

Q.   I was wondering... 
JOSH GOODALL:   I'm not into England as much as I am Chelsea.

Q.   I thought that might give you more of a lift...
JOSH GOODALL:   I watched that shootout again.   I want my racquets named after Chelsea players, as well.   I've Drogba. 

Q.   What others?
JOSH GOODALL:   I've added Hazard, and I've got Terry Lampard and David Luiz, just to name a few.

Q.   Is David Luiz when you hit the ball long?
JOSH GOODALL:   Yeah, he's the one where I'm a bit crazy on court. 
To be fair, you need to do that because you need to know which racquets are which.   It's not just a stupid thing I'm doing.   Sometimes when you want to know which tension a racquet is strung, it's an easy way to look at it.

Q.   More tension?
JOSH GOODALL:   I used Torres today.   Maybe that's where I went wrong.   (Laughter.)
Q.What about British sports fans?   Obviously in the way of a penalty exit last night, they would have been happy for British success today. 
JOSH GOODALL:   It is disappointing, but you have to like ‑‑it is an amazing feeling when like the crowd get behind you.   You want to do the best for them, and you want to do the best for yourself, so it really is disappointing, because you want to show what you can do on court, and when you're losing, it's not the best feeling.

Q.   Do you feel you gave a reasonable account of yourself today?
JOSH GOODALL:   Yeah, I did, but as I said, it's not going to pay my wage.   I need to win those matches.   Not just money‑wise, but helps my ranking.   I would have gone into the top 200 if I won today. 
That would have been really good, would have guaranteed ‑‑I think I'm going to the U.S. to play quallies, anyway, but it would have meant I had a big run of tournaments coming up.

Q.   Your serves today? 
JOSH GOODALL:   I knew tactically where I wanted to serve against him, which is not where I ideally serve my best serves, but it was working in the first three sets.   I wanted to serve a lot more to his forehand, especially on second serves.   Often it's the riskier second serve to hit, so there were some double faults. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT