THE ARTOIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 9, 2008
Joshua Goodall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  L. HEWITT/J. Goodall
6-4, 6-4
 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Josh. 

 Q. How did you see that then, your game? 
 JOSHUA GOODALL: Well, I was reasonably happy. Obviously, my first match on grass this year, against Lleyton Hewitt, obviously one of the top grass court players in the last decade. I was a little bit tentative at the start in a few parts of my game. Other parts, I was really happy, my serve and my volleying. That hasn't been my game style, and that's what I'm trying to work more towards. 
 Overall, I think there were more positives than negatives. 

 Q. How did the back stand up?
 JOSHUA GOODALL: No, my back was okay. It's been stiff for the last few days 'cause I've actually only managed to get on the grass to practice a couple days ago. I think that had an effect on my back. It's been pretty stiff. As soon as I went into the match, I wasn't thinking about it. 

 Q. Moving on from here, you were talking about Wimbledon wildcards. If you don't get one, will this give you confidence for qualifiers?
 JOSHUA GOODALL: Yeah, I've qualified before two years ago. I mean, if I don't get a wildcard, then that's fair enough, I'll go through qualifying. 

 Q. What did you think when you heard that the LTA were recommending that players outside the top 250 shouldn't get wildcards? 
 JOSHUA GOODALL: I think there should be a target set, to be honest. I think they were right to set a target. But bearing in mind there's not many players that have reached that target or are around that target, then I guess it's up to them whether they change their mind and go back on it. 
 But I think there should be targets set. I think there always has been. When David Felgate was in charge, there was a target then. I think there used to be only three wildcards allowed in your career. I don't think they have that any more. 
 I don't think the Brits should be relying on wildcards too much. Obviously, if you deserve it, you should be given it. 

 Q. Was it only about a month, or six weeks ago, that you heard about that, the 250 rule?
 JOSHUA GOODALL: It was when I was playing a tournament in Bath. That was in March time. But I think, yeah, that gave the players enough time to get to that ranking maybe. I'm not sure. 

 Q. As someone who has come through the system, why do you feel there is this continuing need for British players to have wildcards, second chances? Do you not think we should be producing more? You look around some of the other European countries, the young players seem to be getting guys into the competition and we seem to be falling behind. 
 JOSHUA GOODALL: Yeah, but I think you have to be careful when you give the young players a chance. If the LTA think a young player is ready to play in a big tournament like this, then, yeah, fair enough, give him a wildcard. If they're not producing on the junior level, then I would say, How are they going to produce on the senior level, which is completely different. 
 I found when I came out of juniors, the ITF tour, to come into the seniors, even a Grand Slam junior event, is just the same as a 10K senior event. So, yeah, you have to be careful.

 Q. Do you think we're not preparing our youngsters as well as some of the other countries?
 JOSHUA GOODALL: No, I wouldn't say that. I think there's a lot of good young players coming through that I've seen playing recently. I just think different players mature at different times. 

 Q. How much of a target for you is the Davis Cup in September, getting into that team? 
 JOSHUA GOODALL: That's a huge target for me. I was in the squad. Jeremy Bates picked me for the squad in the Israel tie. I got injured, had to pull out of it. Other than that, I haven't been selected. 
 But I personally think it's one of the best honors you can have in sport, is to play for your country. I mean, I really like it. If John considered me to be in the squad, I'll give it my best shot. 

 Q. Has he given you any indication he's looking at you?
 JOSHUA GOODALL: I speak to John when I see him. But, no, I think he's quite quiet on that. So, no. 

 Q. Good performance at Wimbledon would go a long way to cement it. 
 JOSHUA GOODALL: Yeah. Well, I'm not quite sure what surface they're playing Davis Cup. Might be grass. But, yeah, grass is my favorite surface. Yeah, if I play well at Wimbledon, that puts me in good stead for Davis Cup. 
 But I've got to think about myself first of all. Wimbledon will be my main focus. Then if I play well, I may get a call up for Davis Cup, then great. 

 Q. How do you feel your year's going this year? Are you happy?
 JOSHUA GOODALL: I had a bad start. I think out of the first nine tournaments, I lost six first rounds in relatively weak tournaments. I did a huge fitness block over in December and January, and I think it maybe took me a little time for that to kick in. Then over the last couple months, few months, I've switched it back on and won a lot of matches. 

 Q. When you look at what you achieved in 2006, particularly in qualifying for slams, have you been at all disappointed in your progress since then?
 JOSHUA GOODALL: Yeah, I've been pretty frustrated because I've seen some of the tennis that I can play, especially when I qualified for Wimbledon and I qualified for US Open. I think when I played US Open, that's the best tennis I've ever played. I think my tennis career has been too up and down. I mean, I'm working on it, to try to get it more of a steady level, to get my worst tennis to be a lot better. 
 I'm pretty happy with my best tennis. I think that's top 100 standard. But my worst tennis is not good enough. 

 Q. What do you put that down to?
 JOSHUA GOODALL: Mental, I think. I've got a lot of areas that I need to work on mentally, mainly concentration. If I'm playing at a lower level, I can easily lose focus. I think the last couple months, it's improved greatly. 

 Q. Coaching-wise, what's happening with you with that? You're at Sutton?
 JOSHUA GOODALL: Yeah. I left the LTA about three months ago, four months ago. I've started working at Sutton with my coach, called Nick Will and Jeremy Bates. Nick Will used to coach me when I was about 14. He's from the same county as me, so I know him pretty well, trust him. Kieran Foster used to do my training at the LTA when I first joined the LTA. I felt that was the best my fitness has ever been. So I decided to hire him again. It's probably the fittest I've ever been, so that's definitely working. 

 Q. Was that a good move for you?
 JOSHUA GOODALL: Yeah, it was the right move. It had to be done. Obviously last year wasn't the best of years, so I felt I had to change something. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT