THE STELLA ARTOIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 6, 2005
Joshua Goodall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.


Q.  (Inaudible).

JOSHUA GOODALL:  A great one as well.  I was surprised to get the wildcard into it because I've been injured this year.  But, thankfully, I got one. No, it was a great experience.


Q.  What was the injury?

JOSHUA GOODALL:  I had a knee injury, bursitis, which has kind of hampered my tournament schedule this year.  It's been a bit unfortunate because I had no points to defend.  And, obviously, I've had to come into this one and try and defend a few points. It was, you know, a good experience.


Q.  Would you have rather played somebody else than Greg?

JOSHUA GOODALL:  Uhm, in a way, yes; but in a way, no.  Because, obviously, Greg is one of the best grass court players in the world.  But if I had to step on center court against anyone else, I would have been more nervous, I think, because I've practiced with Greg quite a bit.  So I felt I could relax out there with him.  So it was quite nice to go on court with a face that I knew.


Q.  Is it a bit freaky to play against someone you've practiced with a lot?  You know what he's going to be doing.

JOSHUA GOODALL:  He doesn't normally serve that big in practice.


Q.  Does he not?

JOSHUA GOODALL:  No.  So you can get a few volleys.


Q.  So he's holding back in practice.

JOSHUA GOODALL:  Yeah, I think he holds back against us in practice so he can get a few first volleys (smiling).


Q.  Were you surprised then?

JOSHUA GOODALL:  Yeah, I was surprised at how big his serve was.  I didn't realize that was how big it was.


Q.  Having said that, you still managed to have four breakpoints.

JOSHUA GOODALL:  Yeah.  I think he aced me on three of them and I had a good chance on one of them. But, yeah, no, he had a good shot.  So at this level, I think you only get that many chances anyway, and you've got to take them, so...


Q.  That serve does help him out, though, doesn't it?

JOSHUA GOODALL:  Yeah, definitely.  And his slice backhand as well.  When he's knifing that and coming in at you, it's a bit scary.


Q.  Would you say grass is a surface you're not that keen on?

JOSHUA GOODALL:  No, grass is definitely one of my favorite surfaces.  I prefer it fast because, obviously, I've got quite a big serve, so it can help me out. Yeah, hopefully I can -- I don't know what the situation is with Wimbledon, but if I can get into that, then that would be another great experience.


Q.  It's very much a learning curve.

JOSHUA GOODALL:  Yeah, and, obviously, experience as well.  The more tournaments I can play like this, then the more I feel I can play at this level.


Q.  Is this your biggest tournament you've played?

JOSHUA GOODALL:  Yeah, yeah.  This is my first tour event, so...


Q.  Biggest crowd?

JOSHUA GOODALL:  Yeah, yeah.  Well, I've played Junior Wimbledon twice.  But, I mean, that's nothing compared to this.


Q.  Did Greg have any words of advice for you?

JOSHUA GOODALL:  No, because I think he wanted to beat me, so he wouldn't tell me anything, help me out with anything (smiling).


Q.  How about afterwards?

JOSHUA GOODALL:  No, he was great.  He said I was really -- I played really well.  He said I've got a good future if I can carry on playing like that.  So that was nice.


Q.  Generally, are you playing sort of futures, challengers?

JOSHUA GOODALL:  Yeah, well, hopefully I can start just playing challengers now and try to leave futures behind.


Q.  What is your schedule like coming up?

JOSHUA GOODALL:  Obviously, I'd like to get a wildcard from Wimbledon, and there's Nottingham; maybe next week I'll play quallies for that.  Then there's a couple of futures -- a couple of challengers on the grass in Nottingham and Manchester.  And then after that, I don't know.  It depends on my ranking.


Q.  I think it's 324.  Is that the highest it's been?

JOSHUA GOODALL:  Yeah, no, it's been up to -- I think it's been up to about 290 or something.  But I dropped 12 points a few weeks ago because, obviously, I couldn't defend it because I had an injury so...


Q.  Is that a quite recent injury?  Is this the first tournament since you've come back?

JOSHUA GOODALL:  Surbiton last week was the first one I came back, yeah.


Q.  Today, interestingly, there's you, Alan MacKin, Andrew Murray all playing.

JOSHUA GOODALL:  Yeah.


Q.  Are you going to watch their matches?

JOSHUA GOODALL:  No, yeah, definitely I'll try.  I'm going to have a massage now and then I'll try and get out and watch (Andy/Alan?) and support him.


Q.  It's kind of like the new wave arriving this year?

JOSHUA GOODALL:  Yeah, yeah.  No, it's good.  Obviously, Tim and Greg, unfortunately, haven't got a few -- have only got a few years left at most. No, it's looking good, I think.  My age, and Andy, and, obviously, a couple of years above, Bogger (Bogdanovic).  Hopefully, we can take over.


Q.  Is there a feeling like that, you know, that you guys are coming together?

JOSHUA GOODALL:  I think so, yeah.  I mean, it's definitely a good vibe around Queen's.  I mean, a few of us train at Queen's Club.  It's definitely a good team atmosphere.  We all push each other on, which is nice.


Q.  We talk about the Spaniards traveling together, the Argentinians.  Is that the sort of thing that you hope as well that you can all --

JOSHUA GOODALL:  Yeah, I mean, we have different -- a few of us are different ages so we all have our own coaches and squads and we travel together.  I mean, in those squads we cheer each other on and try and help each other out as much as possible. But it is an individual sport, so you have to be selfish and take care of yourself first.


Q.  You beat each other as well.

JOSHUA GOODALL:  Yeah, yeah.  We do.  Obviously, playing Greg today, so you have to play each other.  You can go to -- you can draw each other first round, which is annoying, but you have to deal with it.


Q.  Where are you in the British rankings?

JOSHUA GOODALL:  Yeah, I think I'm 10th, I think.  Yeah, last time I looked I was 10th.


Q.  That's obviously with the injury?

JOSHUA GOODALL:  Yeah.


Q.  Have you always had the double-handed forehand?

JOSHUA GOODALL:  I have, yeah, ever since I started.  I think I started with a racquet that was too big for me so I put the extra hand on and I've liked it ever since.


Q.  But you can --

JOSHUA GOODALL:  Yeah, I have got the option to go one-handed on the returns and the passing shots.  I feel comfortable on both, so I guess it's quite unique.


Q.  Have you watched the double-handeds much?

JOSHUA GOODALL:  Yeah.  I used to watch Gambill a lot.  I try to copy a lot of his styles and stuff. But I think I'm quite different to a lot of the double-handeds because, well, the slice might not seem as fast, and a few of the double-handeds, they don't change.  I have a different grip for my forehand and backhand.  I think Gambill is the only one that does that as well.  But he's slightly -- his game style is different to mine.


Q.  Is that a subtle grip change or more than that?

JOSHUA GOODALL:  Well, I guess it's quite a bit, yeah.  You have to be pretty quick.  I mean, a lot of people don't even know I do it.  That's how quick it is, I think.


Q.  We will be watching now.

JOSHUA GOODALL:  Yeah, you'll be watching that one, yeah.


Q.  So what happens next?

JOSHUA GOODALL:  I'm not sure on the situation with Wimbledon.  I think that will be announced soon.  Obviously, there's playoffs next week.  So I'm not sure whether I'll be in that or if I get direct entry. Then there's a couple of challengers after that.  Then after that, I don't know.


Q.  Are you going into Wimbledon on the doubles route as well?

JOSHUA GOODALL:  Yeah, I mean, I play with Lee Childs.  So, obviously, there's a few -- lot of good doubles pairs at the moment.  So, yeah, I'll be battling for one of the wildcards for doubles as well. Yeah, it's a busy schedule for the next few weeks.


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT