BOSTON COLLEGE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
December 18, 2017
Ty Schwab
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TY SCHWAB: Ecstatic, our whole team is ecstatic.  We went there my freshman year and it was an absolute ball.  It was so much fun.  They did a great job hosting us.  I'm ecstatic.  I'm ready to play this game.  I'm ready to play Iowa.  It's going to be smash-mouth football game.  And the whole atmosphere is really exciting.  I started there as a freshman, and I'm happy to end there as a senior.
Q. For the guys who don't know what a bowl game is like, like some of the younger players, how do you explain to them the excitement that you have, and how you have to bring it down once the game starts?
TY SCHWAB: Definitely.  Well, whatever bowl you go to they treat you like a God.  So when you're there you're getting treated like royalty.  You're getting everything you need.  They're showing you all the great spots.  We're going to be in New York which has so many great things going on around Christmastime.  It's going to be awesome.  They're definitely going to be on a high.
But at the end of the day, we've got to lock in and beat Iowa.  We're going to enjoy the time there, but we're going to be locked in and ready to go.
Q. They've got what looks like a real balanced team, a lot of good guys and they go too deep on almost every position.  Just talk about the challenges of their offense?
TY SCHWAB: Yeah, definitely.  So our whole season we've played no-huddle offense.  They huddle, so that's going to give us time to decipher where they're lining up and being able to set the front and make our checks and kind of get ready to go before every snap and rushing everywhere.  Them having depth, I mean we're just going to play football.  We're going to play them nose up, we're going to play our game.  We're going to read our keys and just go run around and be relentless and make plays and have fun.
Q. What has John Lamot (indiscernible) since Clemson?
TY SCHWAB: I can't speak on his behalf on whether he's going to play or how he's doing.  So I really can't speak to that right now.
Q. You mentioned about the huddle.  You played a lot of no-huddle teams throughout the ACC this year.  Is it a challenge to play a lot of no-huddle offenses?
TY SCHWAB: I find that it's going to be a lot easier for us because when they come out of no-huddle, we have to look to the sideline, get the call from the coach.  Decipher what their front is, what their back field set is, what their splits are at wide receiver and make checks and alignments based off of what they're doing.  If they're going at a very, very fast speed, then it's faster that we have to make these calls.
So the fact that they're not a tempo team, we also get to catch our breath after a play and decipher and see what's going on a little bit slower, and make sure we're precise in what we're doing.
Q. Quarterback Nathan Stanley has only six interceptions this year (Indiscernible).
TY SCHWAB: Definitely, we're going to have to get pressure in his face.  They run a lot of under-center stuff, so getting up the field and recognizing their play-action passes is going to be a huge part of our game.  They run a lot of PAP and they run the ball a lot.  So deciphering the two, reading our keys and getting upfield D-linemen and getting our drops, we're going to have to have a lot of coverage sacks and get to the quarterback as fast as we can and just cover.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT