BOSTON COLLEGE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 27, 2017
Ty Schwab
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Florida State - 3, Boston College - 35
Q. How were those fights tonight (Inaudible)?
TY SCHWAB: Yeah, I had to cover him a good amount this game.  He's a great football player, next-level guy.  It was awesome to show that I could play with him and cover him, and show my abilities in coverage.
Q. (Inaudible) you guys have.
TY SCHWAB: Yeah, definitely.  So, yeah, like I said last week, next-man-up mentality, and we had that and Wyatt stepped up.  He's had a lot of playing time.  He played a good football game today.  Our whole defense was swarming to the ball, playing relentlessly.  DBs covered great.  We just had everything going for us on defense today, and we played hard for each other.  It was awesome to be a part of that.
Q. As a senior, it's been a long time since this team has won an ACC game at home.  To see the fans rushing the field obviously in a different context, what's that mean to you as someone who is a senior?
TY SCHWAB: Oh, yeah, it's definitely awesome seeing when the students get involved and really are excited for us.  I mean, sometimes things aren't going the way everybody want it's to go, and you've got to stay steady with the ball.  Even the fans need to do that.  So them seeing us win these last three ACC games and coming home and beating FSU, they were excited and we were excited and them swarming the field.  It's awesome to see that from our school.  The stands were packed, and it was an awesome atmosphere to play in.  It was exciting, and I'll definitely remember this game probably the rest of my life.
Q. Could you just talk about keeping Akers from getting to the edge all night?  He was a pretty good back.
TY SCHWAB: So on film, we saw he constantly tries to get outside.  He's a fast, athletic kid.  So they constantly wanted him to get outside.  So last year we had a problem with setting the edge.  We were letting them get outside.  We made a huge emphasis this week in practice.  We practiced hard and got it done in practice.  Practice how you play, and we got it done in the game.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT