AT&T PEBBLE BEACH PRO-AM
February 11, 2021
Mark Hubbard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Last week you made a birdie on your last hole to shoot 63, birdie here at the 9th.  Not 63, but 66 at Pebble Beach is always pretty good.
MARK HUBBARD:   Yeah, actually I think this birdie was a little better.  9 here is a little harder than 18 there.  But either way it was a great day.
I don't know, just something about this place that it just makes me happy and I always seem to play well here.
Q. You made eight birdies, two bogeys, how many fairways do you think you hit out there?
MARK HUBBARD:   I have no idea.  I mean, regardless of how many it was, I was missing it in the right spot the whole day, even when I wasn't feeling it.  Really the only swing that I made that I want back was on 17.  But other than that it was, it felt easy.
Q. Your caddie's laughing at you because the first fairway that you miss at Spyglass would be your first of the entire week.  14 of 14 in fairways and right now -- this could change as the day progresses -- but you lead the tournament in strokes gained putting.  More than a hundred feet.
MARK HUBBARD:   Yeah, I mean, I think I have an advantage.  I went to school in the Bay Area, so I'm used to poa annua, I know how to putt it.  I played here and Spyglass over 40 times.  I feel really comfortable.  It kind of feels like a home event.
Obviously I hope I keep putting well, but I'm less surprised about that stat than the fairways hit one.
Q. Was there anything that you brought with you from Phoenix that transferred that you'll learn and improve on these coming next three days?
MARK HUBBARD:   Not really.  Like I don't feel like my struggles kind of mid-tournament Waste Management had really anything that I could learn from a bunch.  I've just been struggling a little bit with my game, to be honest, and I'm grinding pretty hard on my swing right now.  So it's less about kind of managing it or the mental side, it's more about just executing and continuing to get better.  Which I'm doing a good job on and hopefully it will continue to pay off.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT