SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 22, 2015
Mark Hubbard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What a nice round of golf.  Take me through that three-hole stretch at 14, 125 and 16.
MARK HUBBARD: Yeah, 14 I hit an awesome little 9-iron in there.  It was a pretty easy pin but tough putt, had a good stroke, and then hit a great drive on the drivable 15th and had a good two-putt, and then actually hit my 5-iron into the green on 16 about 15 yards right of where I was looking, but luckily I aimed far enough left so it was right on line and had a really speedy putt, just kind of found a good spot and let it trickle in there.
Q. Those putts on 17 and 18, I thought those were tough reads, particularly at 17 because you have water on the left, the Las Vegas Strip on the right, and it's hard to know which way that ball is going?
MARK HUBBARD: Yeah, yeah, kind of the Strip was behind me, and it looks downhill but it's kind of playing uphill.  The water is right so you think it's got to go a little that way, but it feels left on your feet.  I played it right edge, I hit it where I wanted to, that's all you can do.
Q. Maybe fate is going to play a role this week; you were an alternate getting into the field, Matt Every with draws, you get in, and now you're in contention?
MARK HUBBARD: Yeah, yeah, definitely it's a nice opportunity to have.  Just going to keep playing, and I know the scores are really low here every year, so as good as it is to play good today, I've still got a lot of golf.
Q. Any surprises for us, get engaged in Pebble Beach, married in Las Vegas?
MARK HUBBARD: No, nothing like that.  We're doing it in July.  We're doing it in Santa Cruz.
Q. What was working so well out there for you today?
MARK HUBBARD: I drove it awesome.  I've been hitting it really straight off the tee, but today I was also hitting it farther than normal, so that was helpful, and I putted -- I probably had my best putting round of the whole 2015 season.
Q. You haven't had as much success throughout the 14-15 season.  What just sort of clicked for you?
MARK HUBBARD: Yeah, you know, it was my rookie season, it was a lot of growing pains, a lot of stuff to learn, but I felt like I did a good job of kind of persevering, and there were times where I got too frustrated.  I almost cared too much.  So I've kind of just taken a little bit of a chill pill recently, and I'm playing a lot better golf.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT