NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL CHAMPIONSHIP
September 27, 2015
Mark Hubbard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Mark, great round.  Got into the top 10, 4-under.  It's difficult golf course.  What are your thoughts?
MARK HUBBARD: Yeah, I played really well today.  Kind of figured out the putter, which has been holding me back a little bit the past couple weeks.
Yeah, I mean, mixed emotions because now that I had a good round today I definitely am thinking more and more about yesterday and all the shots I gave away.
All in all it's a good week, and I'm in good position to contend next week and hopefully get my card back.
Q. What's the key thing you've been working on this week to try to have such a good finish like you have?
MARK HUBBARD: For me, this week I just drove it great.  I think this course especially, if you hit fairways, I mean, that's the key.  You can't hold any of these greens out of the rough.  That really has been one of my strong suits all year is the driver.
Like I said, been working a lot on the putter, and it finally kind of clicked in today really.  Hopefully I can continue it next week.
Q. Are there any things in particular that you were struggling with yesterday, or was it kind of a snowball?
MARK HUBBARD: Yeah, I just thought it played tough yesterday.  Plays tough every day.  I really wasn't playing too bad.  I was one over through 12, grinding and, you know I kind of fought back from a couple bad breaks and bad shots and I was doing all right.
Then we misjudged the wind on 13 and I air mailed the green into the back weeds and made double, and that was kind of that.
Overall I didn't think I played as bad as my score kind of said.  It was just like a 20-minute stretch right there in the middle of the round that just took me out of contention.
That's what this course will do to do.  Really don;t have to hit that bad a shot to be in really, really bad position.  It's just a good golf course.
Q. Do you feel that a season on the PGA TOUR maybe gives those type of guys like yourself a better advantage this week in particular with more of the -- where you can't really get away with as much?
MARK HUBBARD: Yeah, definitely.  This is one of the definite courses on the Web that we play that gets you ready for the PGA TOUR.  I think we definitely have an advantage.
I don't care who you are, this is a good, tough golf course, and you got to hit it in the right spots.  If you don't, you're going to get penalized.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT