PUERTO RICO OPEN
March 5, 2015
Mark Hubbard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   So first just take us through your day.   
MARK HUBBARD:   Yeah.   It played tough out there with the wind, but I hit a lot of really good kind of three‑quarter and half shots into the wind.   I actually probably played the into‑the‑wind holes better than the downwind holes where I had to just hit normal shots.  
But I drove it pretty well, kept it in the fairway and made a solid of solid five, six‑footers.  
   
 Q.   Yeah, this wind has been tough out there today.   
MARK HUBBARD:   Yeah, I mean I kind of found it the toughest putting, especially if you're kind of in that downhill, down grain situation where you can't hit it too hard, the wind really, really affects that.   You'll have a right‑edge putt that'll play a ball out to the left.   So you're almost rooting for the wind as much as you are grain or anything else.  
   
 Q.   Is that all about just kind of trusting what you're‑‑  
MARK HUBBARD:   Yeah.   Yeah.   And I definitely did a good job of that today all around, just trusting‑‑ coming into the shots and trusting myself.  
   
 Q.   What do you like about the course here?  
MARK HUBBARD:   Really everything.   I mean I always putt well on bermuda‑type greens, grainy greens.   But yeah, it's really pretty.   There's a good mix of long, tough holes where you got four, five, 6‑irons in and then a good mix of holes where you can be aggressive and bomb driver down there.   So it's just a good golf course.  
   
 Q.   How about interacting with the guys, the field?   It ranks where you have your young guys and then guys we've all grown up watching play.   How does that feel?  
MARK HUBBARD:   Yeah.   It's cool.   I mean most of‑‑ I think most of the idols, if you will, growing up are at Doral right now, so we're all aspiring to be there next year.  
But yeah, we got a good group of guys.   I got a lot of buddies from the Webb last year that are all down here, so it's going to be a fun week.  
   
 Q.   It's not a bad spot to be.   Maybe a honeymoon location for you?  
MARK HUBBARD:   Yeah, definitely.   There's a lot of good spots down here in the Caribbean.  
   
 Q.   Have you started wedding planning?  
MARK HUBBARD:   She has a little bit.   We already have I think wedding colors picked out and maybe a theme and we've started looking at a few spots.   But yeah, it's still early.   It's going to be a while.   We're moving to Houston right now, so that's kind of our main focus.  
   
 Q.   Where are you moving from?  
MARK HUBBARD:   San Jose.  
   
 Q.   You've had an eventful few weeks, haven't you?  
MARK HUBBARD:   Yeah.   I've been getting a lot of press.   I thought it would be perfect this week, go engage, DQ, win.   Would just be a trifecta.   So I gotta keep playing well.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT