AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 12, 2015
Mark Hubbard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What prompted the idea to propose?
MARK HUBBARD:   It was ‑‑ actually her mom had the idea when I asked her dad for permission.   She just thought it would be cool to include golf and we have been together for so long, I felt like I had to do something different than just take her out to dinner or something.   So it just kind of all clicked.

Q.   How nervous were you today playing knowing that this was going to happen at the end?
MARK HUBBARD:   You know, I really wasn't nervous at all.   I'm pretty good about compartmentalizing stuff. 
And coming down the stretch, it was just kind of a grind for me today anyway, so I think that kind of helped.   If I had had a really good round going, I definitely would have been thinking on 18 like, oh God, don't blow this.   But it was just a frustrating hoe hum day, so it kind of kept my attention off the last hole.

Q.   Did you start thinking about it on the 18th hole or anything?
MARK HUBBARD:   After I hit my drive, then, yeah.   But that's not exactly the easiest tee shot, so I was definitely as focused as I could have been on that.

Q.   So this plan has been in the works since you knew you were playing here or was it ‑‑
MARK HUBBARD:   Oh, yeah, since probably Thanksgiving.   So it's been awhile.   Then I started talking to the TOUR a couple weeks ago and see if we could get it in motion. 
Originally, I had just thought to like put it on the caddie bib or something like that.   When they told me we could get it up on the board, I was like oh, sold.   So, yeah. 

Q.   Did you ask to be in the last group today so you could do that?
MARK HUBBARD:   Yeah, yeah, that's how it worked out that way.   I got lucky. 

Q.   You didn't ask that?   It just turned out that way. 
MARK HUBBARD:   I just got lucky.   With my what do you call it?   My category or whatever, I'm usually close to the last off anyway, as a rookie, so I wasn't too worried about it.

Q.   Would this have happened whatever day you were at Pebble.   You wouldn't necessarily be at Pebble Thursday?
MARK HUBBARD:   Yeah, just whatever day I was at Pebble.

Q.   And what was 18, after your drive, while you were getting closer?   How did you play the hole?
MARK HUBBARD:   I hit it pretty much where I wanted to off the tee and then it didn't draw.   So I ‑‑ you can come in here.   We're in the even married and she's already avoiding me.   But I hit my drive and it just didn't draw so it caught that bunker and I was like a foot away from the lip.   So again I had to focus really hard and not worry about what was going to happen after.   And it just kind of all worked out that I wasn't thinking about it too much.

Q.   What about on the green?
MARK HUBBARD:   I wasn't thinking about it until I ran my putt about two feet by and I was like, man, it would really suck to 3‑putt right now, don't do this.   So I was pretty glad I made that second one.

Q.   So you made par ultimately?
MARK HUBBARD:   Yeah. 

Q.   When is the wedding?
MARK HUBBARD:   Tomorrow at Monterey Peninsula.   (Laughter.) 
I don't know, we haven't gotten that far yet. 

Q.   So where do you go now?   To the driving range or out to celebrate?
MARK HUBBARD:   Celebrate, yeah.   To celebrate, for sure.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT