FRYS.COM OPEN
October 10, 2014
Mark Hubbard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How does it feel to shoot 65 and have an ace in your second round as a TOUR member?
MARK HUBBARD:   Yeah.   It's pretty cool.   Fifth hole‑in‑one ever.   Only second in actual competition.   I had a couple in qualifying for college, but to have it in my first PGA event as a PGA member is pretty cool.
Had a little one on 9 that I would have liked to make for 64, but no complaints.

Q.   Where was the other ace in competition?
MARK HUBBARD:   I had one this year in Chile on the Web.com.   It was only a little chip 9‑iron, so that's when it was a little better, a little more manly of a hole.

Q.   To us you kind of came out of the pack very abruptly.   Did you feel like this was building today?   Were you playing well prior to the ending there?
MARK HUBBARD:   Yeah.   I was playing well coming into this week.   I got some time off and got rested and rejuvenated and I was playing really good Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday.   And yesterday I just kind of got off to a little bit of a rusty start, just kind of did some uncharacteristic things, hit some uncommitted shots, that type of thing.   Just not playing for two and a half weeks, it'll happen.   But the game was there.
Then today I was playing really solid, just kind of plodding along until that happen, and then it was like, okay, this is‑‑ then I almost made the next one on the next hole for eagle.

Q.   How far away did you hit?
MARK HUBBARD:   I hit it up on the slope and sucked it back.   It was like dead in the heart, a foot and a half short from going in.

Q.   What did you hit?
MARK HUBBARD:   3‑wood, sand wedge, like 104 yards.   But one two would have been pretty cool.

Q.   The hole‑in‑one, what did you hit, what iron?
MARK HUBBARD:   5‑iron.

Q.   And what was your reaction?   Did you see it go in or did you hear the crowd?
MARK HUBBARD:   Yeah.   I honestly was just happy to make a good swing on that hole and hit that green.   I don't do that a lot on that hole.   That's not one of my favorites.   Now it is (laughs).
But yeah, I made a really good par on 6, and I just knew I needed to get through 6 and 7 because I'd have two birdie chances on 8 and 9, so that par on 6, I was just like, okay, hit it in the middle of the green and just made a nice tempoed swing and went right at it, and we saw it kind of disappear, but there were shadows, so you couldn't really tell.   I was just happy it was on the green.

Q.   So now looking forward, you're right in the thick of this.   You're two off the lead.   How do you view this going into the weekend?
MARK HUBBARD:   Yeah.   I'm excited.   Nothing really changes, just keep to your game plan.   But yeah, no, nothing really changes.   It's definitely very cool to be in the mix and in this tournament. 
I mean if I could pick one tournament this fall season that I'd like to win, it would be this one just because I'm a local boy in San Jose.   Our team has a really good relationship with all the Frys guys.   So it would be very, very cool with all the support out here to make a move the next two days.

Q.   How many times have you played this course?
MARK HUBBARD:   Probably like five now, six, something like that.

Q.   Did you Monday for last year's Frys?
MARK HUBBARD:   I did, yeah, out at Bayonet.

Q.   You probably play CordeValle more than this; right?
MARK HUBBARD:   Yeah.   I play CordeValle all the time.   One of my teammates who's up on the Canadian tour, he's a member out there, so I get out there with him all the time. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT