A MILITARY TRIBUTE AT THE GREENBRIER
September 12, 2019
Mark Hubbard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MARK HUBBARD: Today's was a good start to the year obviously. Really happy to be back out on this tour. Korn Ferry obviously does an amazing job, but this is the show; this is where you want to be.
As far as my game, I putted pretty well. I think I probably had my best driving round of year, maybe ever. For me that's the key. If I just keep it in the fairway out here I'll do all right.
Q. Seems like the course is getting a little dryer as the day goes on. How is that?
MARK HUBBARD: It is. The greens are still really receptive. If anything, it's probably making it play a little more fun because the balls are still stopping on the greens but the fairways are rolling out.
I definitely had a lot less club into a couple holes on the front nine, my back nine, than I did in the practice round.
Q. And how does it feel to be tied for second after day one?
MARK HUBBARD: Yeah, I mean, there is a lot golf left. It's more just kind of how I handled myself and how I played out there.
The result kind of doesn't mean a whole lot right now. Just any time you can card a bogey-free round, that's a huge confidence boost.
Q. Pretty satisfying for you being back on tour as you said. You played here a couple times already. This is your low score here. Obviously trying to improve on the two performances you had here already. Talk about that a little bit.
MARK HUBBARD: Yeah, definitely. I've always really liked this course. Yeah, definitely my best round here. I've had a little bit of success here. I was kind of in about 20th place one year. Played in the group in front of Tiger, so that was pretty fun.
I've played well here before and I really like the course, so it's great to be back?
Q. What do you look forward to most on the PGA TOUR season after spending a season on the Korn Ferry Tour?
MARK HUBBARD: Just mixing it up. Just getting back in contention. The first time I was on this tour I think I was good tough. I've touched on this a lot. I don't think I was necessarily mentally ready.
You dream about getting on the PGA TOUR to chase trophies, to mix it up with the big guns. You don't -- finishing 40th every week isn't fun; grinding to make cuts isn't fun. I feel like I needed to go back and get that experience and learn how to win again, and this time around I think I'll find myself in the mix a lot more.
Q. Is it just the experience that gets you mentally ready after a couple years out here?
MARK HUBBARD: Yeah, I think it's experience. It's kind of figuring out what your game is, not trying to do too much. Just focus on your strengths, play to those strengths, and in your off weeks try and make your weaknesses better.
Think the first time out I complicated a lot of things, and I've developed a couple go-to shots. I don't think I'm necessarily that much more talented than I was last time around. I just know how to play golf better.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT