THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 10, 2017
Mark Hubbard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MARK HUBBARD: Just seeing that many people around 17 at the concert last night, I almost couldn't even watch the concert, I was just staring at the green the whole time, I'm so excited.   
 Q.  What do you think of the course?  
MARK HUBBARD: I haven't been out yet.  I've been practicing.  I'm going to go play after this.  I played it a couple times before, but I'm excited to see the changes that they made to it.   
 Q.  Yeah, they added a couple longer tees and then they've got some pretty exciting --  
MARK HUBBARD: Yeah, added some length, took away some length.  I've been playing practice rounds on the Xbox and PlayStation since I was about 10, so I think I'm ready.   
 Q.  You know, there was that Tiger Woods thing with Russell Knox and a couple of the Skratch guys.  Should you have been invited?  
MARK HUBBARD: I think so, for sure.   
 Q.  I guess Russell won.  
MARK HUBBARD: Really?  I got Russell easy.  I can take him.  No, we played yesterday, me and Russell played yesterday over at Pablo Creek.  I wish I had known.  I would have been talking smack to him the whole time.   
 Q.  How did you like Pablo?  
MARK HUBBARD: It was nice, yeah.  It was really nice.  Greens were fast.  It was in good tournament condition.  I think this place is obviously a little more difficult.  But yeah, it was a good time.   
 Q.  What are some of your favorite courses on TOUR?  
MARK HUBBARD: That's a tough one.  Last week's was amazing, the new one in Wilmington.  Quail has always been my favorite, and Riviera is up there for me big time.   
 Q.  So you're pumped -- you want to get on the PGA --  
MARK HUBBARD: Yeah, definitely.  I also haven't seen that since some of the changes that they made.  I heard that they did a bunch of the front, rerouting some holes and stuff, so hopefully I like the changes as much as the old version.  But yeah, definitely.  It's up there for me.  I want to get into that one.   
 Q.  How would you describe your season so far?  
MARK HUBBARD: It's been frustrating, man.  You know, third year out here, and I don't know, I think maybe expectations have been a little high, getting the best of me.  But it's been a lot better the last couple weeks.  I feel like I've made a lot of progress.  It's definitely not the way I wanted to start.  At the same time, though, the last two years, I feel like I started really hot and I played way too much, and by the end of the year, by the time the Playoffs came around, I was just spent.  So this year I've tried to kind of pace myself a little more, plan my schedule a little better, so I feel like I'm putting myself in a spot to peak at the right time.   
 Q.  You mentioned playing with Russell; who are some of your buddies that you do practice rounds and hang with?  
MARK HUBBARD: Yeah, somehow I got in with the SEC crowd, John Peterson, LSU; Jonathan Randolph, Ole Miss; and Andrew Loupe, LSU, is my normal group a lot of the time, so I don't know how a Cali and Colorado boy got in there.  But Randolph is probably my best friend out here.  We played four out of six rounds in our first Q-school finals, and we've been traveling together ever since.  He's always in my foursome, and just depends on who we play against.   
 Q.  What's your usual week look like?  Do you play every day leading up, or do you kind of -- in and out?  
MARK HUBBARD: Yeah, Mondays I usually take it off pretty easy, maybe hit the gym but don't do much at the course, and then this week is a little different because there's no pro-am.  I think -- which I like.  I think playing on Wednesday -- the course changes so much from Tuesday to Thursday that often your practice round on Tuesday, you take all these notes, you get out there on Thursday and they're useless because it's such a different course.  That's why I'm playing today versus yesterday.  But yeah, I usually play at least once and then sometimes play off-site with my caddie on Wednesday just because the course is mayhem with the pro-am.   
 Q.  And you get to see a sweet course?  
MARK HUBBARD: Yeah, exactly.   
 Q.  What do you think about the conditioning with the real firm, fast greens?  Obviously it rained, makes the courses soft a lot of times on TOUR.  Was it refreshing to play somewhere that was really demanding?  
MARK HUBBARD: Yeah, I much prefer that over going to a course where you know 25-under is going to win.  If I could pick one tournament to win, it would be the U.S. Open.  I think it's really cool when around even can win an event with the best players in the world.  That's cool.  To me seeing the course fight back is what it's all about.   
 Q.  I think it's a little bit better golf, too.  
MARK HUBBARD: Yeah, absolutely, yeah.  I think my favorite part about golf is the mental aspect of it, and there's no better test when stuff like that is going wrong and you've got to stay as patient as possible.   
 Q.  What hole are you kind of most excited -- what hole out here gives you kind of like the most -- have to think the most about what you're doing off the tee?  Is there any hole that kind of changes day-to-day?  
MARK HUBBARD: Yeah, I don't know if there's any particular hole.  I think 4 is a really good short hole, and it's one that doesn't necessarily fit my eye off the tee, so that's one I'm going to hit a few extra tee shots on today.   
 Q.  Because of the way you shape it?  
MARK HUBBARD: Yeah.  I just think it's a great little green.  I love that green.  I'm excited for that one.   
 Q.  A lot of different shots you can hit off the tee.  
MARK HUBBARD: Yeah, exactly.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT