AT&T PEBBLE BEACH PRO-AM
February 12, 2016
Mark Hubbard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 6-under today, three back of the lead, give me some comments about how you played today out here.
MARK HUBBARD: Yeah, I played well.  I made a lot of good par saves early on that kind of kept the momentum of the round going.  Then I really got into a rhythm with my ball striking.
But, I don't know, I feel like I have an advantage out on this course because I played it probably 40, 50 times playing at San Jose state.  So, it's actually my favorite course down here where I think it's a lot of guys' least favorite.  So I think that gives me a big advantage.
Q. Your thoughts about make over at Monterrey Peninsula tomorrow?
MARK HUBBARD: Yeah, I think it will be good.  I played there a couple times.  Just kind of depends on the weather, but I think it's the easiest and most gettable stuff so if I can just keep driving it the way I did the past two days and keep giving myself looks I think it will be good.
Q. What's best round you shot out here?
MARK HUBBARD: One better, 65.  But that was, yeah, a couple times in college 65, so.
Q. And then where are you in your amateur partner?
MARK HUBBARD: We're at 12-under, I believe.  I don't know what the Amateur thing is, but he's a really good guy, so I would love to get him on to the weekend.
Q. Who is he?
MARK HUBBARD: Tom Campbell.  Good guy.
Q. And then switching gears a little bit, it's the year anniversary, obviously, of you getting engaged here at Pebble Beach.  Some thoughts about that and then I heard you took some engagement photos?
MARK HUBBARD: Yeah, we did engagement photos yesterday, so we're going to be sending out invitations and stuff coming up.  But I guess all I can really say is 18 played a lot easier yesterday than it did a year ago.
(Laughter.)
Q. Is the wedding going to be at Pebble?
MARK HUBBARD: No, we're doing it kind of near Santa Cruz.  Our old stomping grounds up in the hills there.  This place called Nestldown, July 29th.  Our date right now is actually during the PGA Championship, so if I keep playing the way I'm playing, we might be eloping somewhere, so.
Q. And then, lastly, do you have a lot of people following this week, because you're kind of a local guy, you grew up an hour away from here?
MARK HUBBARD: Went to school an hour away.  I grew up in Denver, but, yeah, I got a couple teammates, couple old friends and family always comes out to this one.  They usually pick the nice weeks like Monterey to come out.  I don't see them much when we play in like Nebraska or something.  But, yeah, I got a lot of people out.  So it's always a fun week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT