UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 27, 2012
Jaxon Shipley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






		  
		  THE MODERATOR: Questions for Jaxon Shipley. 

Q. Coach's birthday is today; have you wished him a happy birthday?
JAXON SHIPLEY: Not yet. Haven't had a chance to yet. 

Q. He's 61. He looks good.
JAXON SHIPLEY: He does look good. He's still extremely active and really, really upbeat. So I didn't even know he was that old. He doesn't look that old to me. 

Q. What a perfect way to start off with coach's birthday; talk about how jacked up you are? 
JAXON SHIPLEY: Well, obviously a lot of us, we are all really excited. I'm sure the fans are really excited, because I know the players and the coaches are. We have been looking forward to this day for a long time. 
We ended on a good note last season with the victory over Cal and we had a good spring scrimmage fall camp has gone great so far. Everything is kind of hyped up right now. I think there's a buzz in the air and everybody just really excited.

Q. We always talk about freshmen being anxious, but do you still get anxious to get out there and get that first catch, get that first hit out of the way? 
JAXON SHIPLEY: Yeah, I think everybody kind of goes through that. As a freshman last year, I remember being nervous before the game. I think that's natural. And then like Carrington, after the first play, after your first snap, it kind of all goes away. I feel a little nervous sometimes before games, but you know, with a year of experience under my belt, I'm sure I won't get near as anxious or anything like that. 

Q. What did you seefrom David that made him stand out as a starter? 
JAXON SHIPLEY: I think he's been really consistent and that's been one of the things that he showed us that every day he's going to come out and give his best and do what he's told. He's been making some great throws. We are excited to have him starting as QB and I think he can get the job done for us. 

Q. So the conservative offense‑‑
JAXON SHIPLEY: I don't really know yet. I think we are going to be balanced and we are going to try to make plays both running and passing the ball. 

Q. Last year, the offense‑‑ what kind of tone and tempo‑‑ to come out‑‑
JAXON SHIPLEY: We are going to come out and score on our first drive hopefully, because I think that's one of the things that can set off the game good for us and we are trying to just make some explosive plays at the beginning of the game. And that's one of the things that will help us out is if we can just make a play at the beginning and give us confidence and we can make plays throughout the whole game. 

Q. Coach said that players don't make such a big deal about who is going to be the starting quarterback and it's more for the public to debate; is that the case? Do you start to get the feel that it's going to be Ash's chance first‑‑
JAXON SHIPLEY: It's just one of those things as a receiver, you can't really worry about who you are quarterback is going to be. We have to get our job done regardless of who is the quarterback. Whoever is throwing us the ball, we have to catch it. So that's the main thing for us as receivers. 
You know, it was a close battle, and you know, all of our QBs have done a great job this fall camp and congratulations to David for getting the starting job against Wyoming. I think he's going to do a good job for us. 

Q. How do you guys complement each other as a receiving group?
JAXON SHIPLEY: Well, we have all got different things that we are good at, and you know, if they are playing one receiver one way, I mean, if we are getting a lot of balls to one receiver one way, we can double off somebody else. It's just one of those things where we feed off each other. We hole each other accountable for dropped balls or if we do something wrong, we are on each other about that. 
We all feed off each other, so I think it's going to be a really exciting year for the receivers.

Q. Is it different this year, more confidence? 
JAXON SHIPLEY: I think it's going to be a lot different. With a year of experience under my belt, I definitely feel more confident than I did at this time last year because I didn't really know what to expect, and this year I know my role on the team and I know that I've got to get my job done and I kind of know what to expect. 
You know, I think it's a lot different with a year under your belt. 

Q. Being around the program, do you feel like you had more nerves last year? 
JAXON SHIPLEY: Yes, sir, I did, because like I said, I didn't know what my role was going to be and I didn't know how much playing time I was going to get and I didn't know what to expect as far as playing at this level. Now that I've kind of been through that, I'm kind of used to it and I feel a lot more comfortable going into this first game. 

Q. Inaudible.
JAXON SHIPLEY: If that's what coach wants me to do, that's what I'll do. That was fun for me to be able to use the arm and throw the ball. So that's really exciting for me and something that I look forward to and hopefully I'll be able to do that a lot more this year. 

Q. Inaudible.
JAXON SHIPLEY: I think they are both consistent. All of our quarterbacks have done a great job this fall, and you know, they have all done things that they are good at and they all have a different role on this team. 
I just think that David has done a really good job, like I said, of being consistent. He's been throwing some great balls and that's not our decision as players to decide who the quarterback is going to be. 
But also the coaches felt that David was going to be best for this game against Wyoming and we'll just support his decision. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT