MLB ALL-STAR GAME
July 14, 2014
Yoenis Cespedes
Sonia Fife
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Thank you all very much for coming.   A couple of folks I would like to introduce.   To my immediate left is Sonia Fife.   Sonia is the general manager of North America Gillette.   Seated next to her is Nate Johnson, he's 13.   He is from the Duluth Boys & Girls Club.   
And before we turn it over to questions, Sonia has a gift.   
SONIA FIFE:   We'd like to make a special presentation to you of this special edition Gillette new razor with FlexBall technology in honor of you winning tonight.   Congratulations.   We also have for you a three‑year supply of shaving products.   We hope you enjoy them.   Congratulations.   
You can make maximum contact every day.   Thank you.   
   
 Q.   Yoenis, can you compare your win in this Home Run Derby to last year's?   And what was it like going up head‑to‑head against Josh Donaldson, your teammate.   
YOENIS CESPEDES:   This year was a little more difficult because there were only seven outs instead of ten.   And in terms of Josh, I knew he wasn't going to win because his mentality was to take the ball out of the stadium, and I told him that is not the way you win this competition.   
   
 Q.   Yoenis, two questions.   First of all, how did the rain affect you?   Obviously you weathered that storm, also.   But it even rained in your final round.   And I wonder what kind of challenge that was.   And then also, could you just talk about what it means to raise $465,000 for the Boys & Girls Clubs and RBI.   
YOENIS CESPEDES:   The rain definitely affected us.   The thing is, that all of us were ready to go and all of a sudden it started to rain, so we had to cool our bodies down and get ready again.   
So it definitely affected us at the beginning.   And then at the end when it started raining during the final, I was already in the middle, so that was not as big a problem.   
I'm very happy that it was that amount.   And it should do a lot of good for all these people that do need the money.   I only wish that it could have been even more.   
   
 Q.   Yoenis, you mentioned Josh maybe overswinging a little bit.   Why do you think your swing is so well suited to this event?   You have won these before in Cuba and now you have won two in a row here.  
YOENIS CESPEDES:   I'm somebody who's very conscious of the power that I have.   So I don't need to put more of a swing or more of an effort in order to hit a home run.   I just have to look for a good pitch and put a good swing on it and it usually takes care of it.   
   
 Q.   The question was in Spanish, I will translate in English.   It's not very common that there is a back‑to‑back champion in the Home Run Derby.   And how proud do you feel to be the only other person than Ken Griffey, Jr. to accomplish that?   
YOENIS CESPEDES:   I'm very happy and proud to be the only other person.   I wish there was another word that would describe it even better than that to win this competition in consecutive years.   
   
 Q.   Yoenis, how do you think the change in format affected maybe some of the other competitors, especially Stanton, Bautista that maybe had to sit for awhile and cooled off a bit.  
YOENIS CESPEDES:   The change in the format, like I said before, definitely affected some players.   And I think it was difficult for people like Bautista and Stanton because they did have to wait so long between.   And it's not so much that they were affected on the field, but they also had to wait and they didn't have the cage as much.   
   
 Q.   So many children were enjoying to catch home run balls.   Did it give power to you?   
YOENIS CESPEDES:   To see the happiness on the faces of not just the children, but of everybody who was catching the home run balls.   And we all saw it on the scoreboards, definitely helped us and pushed us.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you all very much for coming.   
Before you leave we would like to take your picture with the trophy.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT