ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
February 28, 2015
Chris Woakes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How have things been the last couple days, good couple days practice here?  How have the guys prepared for this test against Sri Lanka?CHRIS WOAKES: Yeah, I think it has.  It was nice to have a couple of days off after the Scotland game, get back to Wellington in familiar surroundings, and it's nice to get two hard days' practice in.  I think today will probably be a little bit lighter and just getting ourselves ready for what will be a big game tomorrow.Q. Where do you see your own game at the moment?  You've had quite a good time of it in this World Cup so far.  Where do you see your bowling at the moment?CHRIS WOAKES: Yeah, feeling good rhythm actually.  I think since arriving in Australia I felt like I've hit my straps pretty well, executed plans reasonably well.  Had an off day here or there, but I suppose you have those every now and then, but in general feel pretty good, and in good confidence actually going into the Sri Lanka game, so I feel like I'm in a good place, which is nice.Q. How important will it be to be the heavy hitter in this competition?  Obviously after this it's Bangladesh and Afghanistan that don't have the pedigree that Sri Lanka do.  How important would it be to actually beat a big team if you are to go through and make a quarterfinal?CHRIS WOAKES: Yeah, it's important that we do show up against the big teams.  You know, obviously tomorrow is a big game having already lost two in the tournament already.  Sri Lanka are a good side, so we know we've got to be on our game tomorrow.  As you say, it is important that we do beat the big sides.  We want to get through to the quarterfinals and you're going to have to beat big teams on the way.  Tomorrow is obviously a big opportunity for us, and we're looking to win it, obviously.  As you say, it is important, and we'll be looking to show how good we can be tomorrow.Q. You mentioned it's good to be back in Wellington, but obviously the last time you were at the Cake Tin you were well beaten by the Black Caps.  Is there any trepidation about going back to the Cake Tin, I suppose, or do you want to get back there and right a wrong?CHRIS WOAKES: Yeah, I think exactly that.  I think we've got a good opportunity to turn things around really.  Obviously last time we were there it didn't exactly go to plan.  It's hard to read too much into that game, I suppose.  We were pretty poor.  We obviously didn't get a total on the board, and Tim Southee bowled exceptionally well, as well.  Hopefully we're past that now and can put that behind us, but it would be good to get back there and show people what we can do.  I think it's a good opportunity for us to put that completely behind us, and as I said before, show people what we can do and put in a solid performance.Q. When you see innings like we saw from AB de  Villiers last night, maybe you chose not to watch, but from a bowler's perspective, is there anything you can do about that?  Do you have to just accept that batsmen are going to score like that occasionally or can you address the bounce a bit in one day cricket as a bowler?CHRIS WOAKES: Yeah, it's tricky, isn't it.  Obviously AB de  Villiers is a world class player and he's done it on more than one occasion.  I saw a few of the highlights from last night's game, and it was obviously an exceptional innings.  He's a very, very good cricketer.  It's obviously an exceptional knock. Bowlers, you have your plans to certain batters and you try and execute them.  Sometimes you miss and you go out the park.  But I think if you stick to your skill and back it 100 percent, I think it's irrelevant what the guy at the other end is really doing.  If you execute and he still goes for a boundary, then you probably have to change the plan and go for something different. But with the rule changes, I suppose it gives batsmen a little bit more advantage where they can hit the ball, but I think the way he played last night was pretty rare, and to get 160 or even more than that off 60 odd balls is pretty special.  When a guy is in that sort of form, it's very hard to stop.Q. That's the second time he's done that in the past month or so.  We saw Rohit Sharma make 260 two or three months back.  Where is the limit of what is possible in terms of fast scoring?CHRIS WOAKES: I mean, 400 is a pretty good score.  I don't think you'll see them very often.  I think obviously he's done that a couple of times.  As you said, Rohit Sharma had an unbelievable knock, as well.  It obviously depends on the surface, as well, if it's a belting wicket.  But I mean, who knows where the limit is.  I think 400 is not going to happen very often, but as we've seen, 300 now has become par, and unless you get 340, sometimes it's still chasable. I don't think we're going to see 400 scores very often, but I think you're going to get them more often than we used to get them, definitely.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT