NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CANADIENS v FLYERS
May 17, 2010
Jacques Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Just wanted to get your thoughts on Jaroslav's performance last night. He's obviously proven before he can bounce back, and I'm sure you're confident he can do that tomorrow?
 COACH MARTIN: Yeah, definitely. I think, you know, it wasn't one of his better games. I think he'll recognize that, and not just him. I think it goes with our hockey team. I think last night wasn't a good performance, and the result was there to show it.
 I think I've got lots of confidence, and his teammates have a lot of confidence in Jaro that he'll be able to bounce back.

 Q. Did you have any problem with how the Flyers crowded the net last night?
 COACH MARTIN: You look at playoff hockey, I think almost every series that's a strategy that is used. I think you need to do that to score goals at this time of year.
 You don't have the fancy plays and a lot of the goals that are scored are either screen, tips, rebounds and things like that. So that's part of the strategy and we have to do a better job at counteracting that.

 Q. Two questions, one, the physical series like this, any thought given to using Ryan O'Byrne?
 COACH MARTIN: I think we'll decide on our lineup tomorrow. I think any time you play in the Playoffs that's part of competing. That is part of being a team that wins. You've got to finish your checks and you've got to compete hard.

 Q. The third period you made changed the lineups a little bit. Were you just trying to rest some guys there?
 COACH MARTIN: Yeah, I think it's in a game where you want to use some of your other people that haven't got a lot of ice time. We'll regroup and use the best people available for the game tomorrow night. I think our focus is on tomorrow night's game.

 Q. You talked about adjustments to sort of try and thwart the crowding at the net and all that stuff. What specifically can you do?
 COACH MARTIN: Well, I think that's for us to talk, and we did that this morning. We had a team meeting. We discussed the areas how we want to play for tomorrow night's game, and we'll be prepared tomorrow night.

 Q. At the offensive end, you talked a lot about too much traffic around Jaro, at the offensive end it seemed that your team had trouble getting traffic in front of Michael Leighton. Is part of that because they have bigger and more physical defensemen than you faced in the first two rounds, or was it something systematic?
 COACH MARTIN: Well, I don't know if -- I don't think that's the issue. I think that the Flyers' defense, I think they do a good job collapsing. I think, as I said, you need to find ways to get the pucks to the net and find ways to exploit their defensive play.

 Q. A bit of speculation that Jeff Carter could be back as early as tomorrow. Does that change anything for you as a coach in terms of preparation?
 COACH MARTIN: I have no control on who plays for the Flyers. I think my concern is to get our team ready to play and compete hard. I think when you look at before the start of this series we knew that we had to win a game here, and I think we came late in the season. Won a big game in this building, 1?0, and basically that's our focus is we have to do the same thing tomorrow night.





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT