NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: DEVILS v SENATORS
May 19, 2003
Jacques Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Could you have expected what you got from Spezza?  Does it almost make you wish you might have gone to him earlier?
 
COACH MARTIN: No, I think it's a game where we probably weren't as good.  When you look at the game it was 1-1 going into the third period and I think that we played better but we played better as a team.  I think that's the key.  I think we took momentum in the second period by working hard and winning the battles and that's what is important. 
 
Q.  Now that you have won the game that you said you had to win, what is the message for your team going into Game 6 now in their building?
 
COACH MARTIN: Well, it doesn't change.  We've got to win Game 6 there.  I think we have no leeway.  I think that we got to bring forward our best effort and even play better than we did tonight. 
 
Q.  What does that tell you about Spezza at 19 years old to be able to do something like that?
 
COACH MARTIN: I think we know that he's good player and he helped us win tonight.  But I think it's a long process.  I think you like the kids enthusiasm and what he brings to the table.  I think he's made great stride this year.  I think he did a lot of learning in Binghamton.  I think he made himself a better player.  It's nice to see him having some success. 
 
Q.  You almost looked like the coach who lost, not the one who won.  What is going through your head now?
 
COACH MARTIN: I think that probably the key again, like I mentioned before, like specialty team, we were able to win that part of the game tonight, like one shorthanded goal, one powerplay goal, and if you win that segment of the game you give yourself a real good chance to win the hockey game. 
 
Q.  Patrick Lalime had not been as good as you would have expected in the first four games.  Tonight he looked pretty solid.  Talk about him a little bit?
 
COACH MARTIN: I think tonight he probably played  -- I thought he had an excellent game in Game 3 the game that we lost 1-0 he made a lot of good saves, kept us in the game.  But tonight again, he made some key saves and was solid.  The goal that they got didn't have a chance deflected, but, no, I think you need you need strong goaltending and he provided that.  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT