NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: DEVILS v SENATORS
May 13, 2003
Jacques Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.   Tonight your team didn't seem to be ready, at least in the first period.

COACH MARTIN:  Well, I don't know if it's ready or not.  I think it was the specialty teams that was the difference.  I think our powerplay just didn't execute.  I think that we had three or four opportunities in the first period and that's -- you kind of lose some momentum.  I think the other factor in the game was that we made mistakes at key times in the game, when it's 1-nothing we're coming back and a real bad, bad mistake cost us the second goal and then the same thing when we scored in the second we got some momentum, we got some pressure.  We make mistakes that gave them the third goal.  So those are things that you learn from and you got to be better next game.


Q.   Any information on Redden's status?

COACH MARTIN: I don't.  Wait, being evaluated and we will see.


Q.   What was it lower leg?

COACH MARTIN: I don't know.  I haven't talked to him.


Q.   What factor was goaltending tonight?  He seemed to really shut the door first ten minutes of the  --

COACH MARTIN: I don't think like  -- I think you know when you play them that you can't  -- it's a situation where you have got  -- you can't make mistakes like we did and expect to win.  They are a patient team and you got to be patient.  You got to keep your game plan and grind them.  We made some decisions for no reasons, that cost us.


Q.   Do you think your team got a few too many pats on the back in the last couple of days because of what they have done this year and maybe got lulled into a false sense of security?

COACH MARTIN: I don't know.  You don't know about that.  I think the difference was I think we were ready to play but we didn't capitalize.  The powerplay  -- we didn't do the job on the powerplay.  It seemed like we had some opportunities early and it's either you are going to get some momentum with that, you are either going to score but even if you don't score you can generate some momentum for your game and we didn't do that.


Q.   Did any of your players play well tonight and could you comment specifically on Lalime?

COACH MARTIN: Well, Lalime was all right, kept us in the game.  I wouldn't say we didn't  -- I don't know what our  -- I think what cost us was mistakes at key times in the hockey game.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT