NHL AWARDS CEREMONY
June 24, 1999
Jacques Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







JACQUES MARTIN: I'd like to thank the National Hockey League broadcasting association
for the tremendous work that they do. Also I'd like to congratulate other nominees Ken
Hitchcock and Pat Quinn who have done an outstanding job with their team, as well as all
other coaches in the National Hockey League. I'd like to thank the Ottawa Senators
organization, its owner Rod Bryden, its president Roy Mlakar, its general managers
Marshall Johnston right now and special thanks to Pierre Gauthier for giving me an
opportunity. I thank my coaching staff, Mike Murphy, Randy Lee, Phil Myre who have done a
tremendous job. Most important, I thank the players of our organization for their
tremendous dedication and support, and their extreme work ethic that's made this possible.


(Press conference)

Q. Initial reaction to winning the award?

JACQUES MARTIN: Well, it's a tremendous honor for me. I think it's a tremendous
reflection on the progression of our hockey club. A lot of the credit should go to the
organization and the players who have worked so hard to become an elite hockey team.

Q. In the regular season, did your team exceed what you even believed it could do, the
way they finished up, amount of points?

JACQUES MARTIN: We raised our expectation as the season went along. We felt that we
were an excellent hockey club. We didn't know how good we could be. I think we've proved
that we're an elite club in the National Hockey League. Now we have to work at staying
there and becoming a better hockey club in post-season play. 

Q. Is there a part of you that ever wondered if you would get a chance again to come
back and win this trophy?

JACQUES MARTIN: I don't think I don't worry about those things. I think the most
important thing is to work hard and do the best of your ability. I think that I'm very
fortunate to have a tremendous staff in Ottawa, to have tremendous young players who are
extremely key and extremely focused and work at getting better every day. 

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT