U.S. GIRLS' JUNIOR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 27, 2017
Ami Gianchandani
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Emotional, huh?
AMI GIANCHANDANI: Very, yeah.  This is my third time playing in this championship and my first time making the cut actually, so that was my goal coming here.  Sort of an extension of that goal was to make it past the round of 64, and I can't believe I'm going to the round of 8.
Q. You've played really well to get to this point.  What did you have to do to win this match?
AMI GIANCHANDANI: Thank you very much.  It was a lot of back and forth with me and Patty today.  She's an amazing player.  She's one of the best players in the country --
Q. In the world.
AMI GIANCHANDANI: Yeah, I knew I had to play my best game to even keep up with her, so it was all about just making pars, getting on the green and then making two-putts, and if the one-putts dropped, great.
Q. I remember the first day I was looking at the scores, and you were kind of creeping up, and I think you got to maybe 2-under and then all of a sudden you finished poorly.  What happened then and then how did you adjust?
AMI GIANCHANDANI: I think going out the first day, the front nine, I think I was under par, and I think I was just very excited to be here and just pumped on adrenaline.  On the back maybe I settled down a little bit.  But again, it was just all about making pars all week long.  I had a couple mistakes in the first two rounds, but I was thrilled to make the cut and then have the opportunity to be here.
Q. Today was there a turning point in this match?  Were you guys just nose to nose the whole time?
AMI GIANCHANDANI: I think the most anyone got up was 2-up, and then immediately it came back down.  It was just 1-up, and then for almost the whole back nine we were all square.
There were a couple holes where I missed easy putts and then we pushed, but then there were another couple holes where she just barely lipped out and we pushed.  So we gave and took a couple strokes from each other, but it was just back and forth, neck and neck, all day.
Q. Tell us about 18.  We can't see very well, obviously, from up here, but walk us through how close you both were.  Where were you, and then your putts?
AMI GIANCHANDANI: So off the drive, it was absolutely pouring, and both of us got our rain gear on just to hit the drive, and then as soon as both of us hit the drive, it kind of settled down.  My drive was in the fairway bunker, and hers was about 30 yards farther up in the fairway, absolutely perfect drive.
Out of the bunker, I was talking to my caddie, and I said, I have to go for it.  It's on this hole I'm going to win it or lose it.  I took a very risky shot with a hybrid.
Q. Fairway bunker with which hybrid?
AMI GIANCHANDANI: 3 hybrid.
Q. What was your yardage?
AMI GIANCHANDANI: About 180.  Still rain and wind into our face, but thankfully I made really solid contact and it just went over the green, which is sort of where I was going for.
Q. So you didn't -- you wanted no part of a 19th hole?
AMI GIANCHANDANI: No, no.  The 18th hole is so tough that I knew it was going to come down to a showdown on the 18th hole, who can get it on and then who can get it in.
Q. How long was your putt?
AMI GIANCHANDANI: It was about four to five feet.
Q. And she putted before you did.
AMI GIANCHANDANI: Yes.
Q. Did it look like it hit the hole and spun out?
AMI GIANCHANDANI: Yeah, hers lipped out, it barely missed.
Q. She was about how far away?
AMI GIANCHANDANI: 12 feet.
Q. When she missed that putt, that's a little bit nerve-racking, you're standing over yours and you know you have to make it.  What were you thinking?
AMI GIANCHANDANI: It is a little nerve-racking.  My heart was beating out of my chest.  I was just standing there, my hands were shaking, but then I told myself calm down, it's a three-footer, you've made this putt before, you can make it again, keep your hands steady, and just stroke it like you know how you can.
Q. So how does the Jersey girl -- what's the strategy going into the next round of this?
AMI GIANCHANDANI: It's the same as it's always been:  Have fun and make pars.  Hit the fairway, hit the green, and just see what happens.  But mainly have fun.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT