MLB WORLD SERIES: GIANTS v ROYALS
October 27, 2014
Jake Peavy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JAKE PEAVY:   Before I start, I just want to send out our deepest condolences to the Taveras family.   That was really hard to hear, and all the jubilation, and the excitement and joy that we were in, that was really tough to hear that news.   Devastated, obviously.   Didn't know him, but obviously we're a fraternity.   When you meet somebody who does what you do, you get the news obviously we got, it's beyond heartbreaking when you don't even know him.   Spoke to a couple guys who played with him and sent out our regards.   
But, yeah, just want to make this clear that we are obviously thinking about the St. Louis Cardinals and the Taveras family and our MLB family.  
   
 Q.   At this point in your career what would it feel like to be the winning pitcher in the clinching game of a World Series?   
JAKE PEAVY:   I can't imagine anything being any sweeter than that.   That's what you play for, to be in the World Series and to win it.   To be the guy that gets the ball with that opportunity.   It's a special opportunity; I understand that.   Just got to do all I can do to be in the moment, to think about executing pitches, to find any way, anyhow for the San Francisco Giants to win this game, and I promise you, I'm going to exhaust every option.  
   
 Q.   Going into this start, do you allow yourself to feel any differently about it than any other start?   
JAKE PEAVY:   I think that's a good question.   You try not to because you want things to be as normal as they are.   At the end of the day this is the start that you play your whole career wanting.   It's hard to get away from that fact.   That this is the opportunity that I would hope just about anybody in baseball would want.   Obviously I know many guys‑‑ Huddy's trying to talk me into swapping (laughter).   
So, no, yeah, it's hard to look at it as any other start because you simply know what goes on.   But once you get out in the game, it's the game of baseball.   You have to find a way to win the game of baseball.   We played the same in July as we play now.  
   
 Q.   At first, can you give us the names of your partners up there?   
JAKE PEAVY:   Yeah, this is my third and second child.   This is Wyatt Peavy, and this is Judson Lee.   Wyatt Jackson and Judson Lee, and they flew with daddy on the plane today to the World Series.  
   
 Q.   Obviously the families were with you.   What was that flight like out here?   Was it quiet?   Was it lively?   What was the mood?   
JAKE PEAVY:   It's different this time of year because of how many‑‑ we had a couple of different planes and another plane coming tomorrow, I believe.   It's a little bit different than the travel during the year.   But everybody seems focused since even last night.   Eating dinner, the mood was a little bit somber because of obviously the news that we got.   But our bunch is focused and we're trying to grind this thing out the way we have for what feels like forever now.   Not even sure of the date, the day.   Doesn't matter.   
We're focused on trying to find a way to win one more game.   We know that's not going to be easy.   We obviously saw how rowdy this place was.   This place was rocking last time I was out on the mound.   They're a very, very good team.   Ventura, we obviously know the challenge he brings, their bullpen.   We had some success last night.   But that being said, we understand we don't want to get in that war.   We've got our work cut out for us, but the boys are focused and we believe.  
   
 Q.   You've been through the postseason a few times and you know how tough it is to see it all the way through and win it.   What do you think it is about this Giants team that has made this team successful almost now three times, and if you're able to see it through, to win the World Series?   What do you think that would mean historically for this Giants group?   
JAKE PEAVY:   Obviously what the Giants have put together and being in three of five World Series and winning two others and having a chance in this one, speaks to the personnel that's in place putting the team together.   You've got to give credit where credit is due, from ownership down through the front office staff to the coaching staff that's all been just about the same for all three of these, if not the exact same.   
You've got to give those guys credit for putting the personnel on the field and being able to build a team that can win a World Series.   It's not easy to do, as you guys know.   
Also, the constants.   When you look at Buster Posey and who he is to this organization, who he is to this team, you have staples like that, Pablo Sandoval and Hunter Pence is coming along, you've got some incredible character in that room.   Incredible character guys, who play the game hard, who understand the game and bring guys together.   That combined with great leadership, you make some good off‑season moves and great trade deadline moves, as Sabe seems to do every year, you can find yourself in this situation.   And they certainly have found a formula that's worked.   
I'm happy to be a part, and I'm going to try to be a significant part of bringing home the third.  
   
 Q.   Does the duck boat come fully assembled when it shows up to your house?   What have you done with it in the years since you've had it?   And have you guys thought about where you'd put a cable car?   
JAKE PEAVY:   Wyatt, you want to?   
WYATT PEAVY:   Well, my dad keeps on saying he's going to get the duck boat painted, but right now it's covered in mildew at our baseball field.   
JAKE PEAVY:   We took it over‑‑ we just had a group, so we took it over to the baseball field, which is right across the street really from where it's at.   We've been in negotiations getting this thing painted.   We're having all kinds of problems because they want to do that in Texas.   You have to put this duck boat on a flatbed trailer and ship it.   That's how it got from Alabama to Boston.   So I'm trying to do it instate where I don't have to pay ridiculous amounts of money to ship this thing across anymore country than it has to.   But it does have a formula going forward.   
Since we moved it over to the field, this thing decided to quit running.   It doesn't want to crank now.   So we have since the playoffs started left this thing sitting over at the baseball field, not running.   I've just been informed it's got mildew on the seats.   So we're going to have to do some‑‑ other than painting, we're going to have to do something with these seats.   Because obviously it's going to be running and be a big part of what we do with the kids and camps and stuff at Southern Falls from here on out.   
Yeah, we've kicked around some options.   Actually, Jonny Gomes showed up in San Francisco this past weekend to bring some spirit and check out a World Series game and spend some time.   We kicked around some options on some memorabilia possibly to take home to commemorate this, if we are fortunate enough to make it happen.  
WYATT PEAVY:   (Whispering) We picked out a trolley car.   
JAKE PEAVY:   (Laughing)   I'll get into that if and when this thing happens.   
WYATT PEAVY:   I think we already picked out our trolley car.  
JAKE PEAVY:   Hey, hey, hey, hey (laughing).  
   
 Q.   What do you take from your Game 2 start into this one?   Obviously, you settled in really nicely.   You've seen these guys a second time.   What do you do here?   
JAKE PEAVY:   I feel like this team, I have so much history with this team.   They know a lot about what I do and what they do.   I did find a groove in some things that should help in this upcoming start.   The biggest thing is finding your rhythm, your tempo, and being to where you're throwing the ball where you need to throw it.   And I was able to do that around about the third inning and really start commanding the ball and commanding different pitches.   Really had struggled to find my cutter and fastball command early, and it cost us a few runs not being able to make two‑out pitches and get out of innings with zeros.   
That being said, we're going to put together another shortened game‑plan package that will be a part of what a lot of, I'm sure what was in Game 1 or Game 2.   But it's going to come down to me throwing the ball to Buster's glove.   If I throw the ball to Buster's glove and it's not moving that much, then it should equal success for the most part.   So that's really the biggest thing, is I'm going to try to find my groove.   
The one thing about these playoffs that a lot of people don't realize is when you get in a run during the season, you pitch every five days.   And if you do have an off‑day, you pitch every six days, but you have a routine.   That off‑day you spend away from the field.   You know what day you're doing upper body, you know what day you're doing your bullpen, you're doing legs, running sprints, distance.   Pitch days, you get into a really nice routine.   I was in that, but then after the Washington series this playoff stuff, you go a week or possibly longer, and you throw a couple of bullpens.   It's just a little bit‑‑ you can get out there and feel a lot stronger, your arm feels better than it has in quite some time because of extra rest.   Sometimes that can lead to not being quite as sharp.   I think you've seen that with a lot of good pitchers this postseason, not quite as sharp as they were maybe a month or so ago.   
That's what makes the postseason the postseason.   There are so many different variables into it.   There is obviously the crowd, and the noise and every pitch matters a little bit more.   That being said, you're out of your routine a little bit.   Your body‑‑ like I said, Buster out in St. Louis was going, "Pull back, pull back.   You're too strong.   You're throwing through everything."   I felt too good simply because of the rest I was able to get.   
So going to go out just to do my best to find that rhythm early and going to give it all I got.   I can tell you that.  
   
 Q.   You guys have walked only six batters all series.   What do you attribute that to?   
JAKE PEAVY:   Other than throwing strikes?   Yeah, I think it's aggressive mentality that we've been taught.   I can tell you guys, Rags and Mark Gardner, Billy Hayes as well is part of that group, do a really, really good job of getting us prepared, and they want us to be aggressive.   This is an aggressive team that doesn't swing out of the strike zone too terribly much.   
If you watch Madison Bumgarner pitch, he was filling up the strike zone with the first pitches of every at‑bat.   You really want to dictate the count.   That's something we talk about a lot.   You cannot have success pitching behind in the count.   You're only going to have success for so long if every count is 2‑1, 2‑0, 3‑1, 1‑0.   It just doesn't equal success.   You have to throw the ball over the white of the plate.   These hitters are too good and somebody's going to get you.   
I think that is the biggest thing is just the mentality that these guys have had.   You see it, obviously, with Bum, but for the most part in these postseasons, a walk is a rally.   You get a guy on and the crowd gets into it.   So you've got to do your best to not let that happen, and obviously our bunch has done a really good job.   I'll try to continue that tomorrow night.  
   
 Q.   Wyatt, what grade are you in?   Did you have any trouble getting out of school to come here to be with your dad?   And Jake, if you could, who do you think gets more excited about playing baseball, Wyatt, Judson or Hunter Pence?   
WYATT PEAVY:   Well, I'm in the fifth grade.   And the spelling is a little bit harder than fourth grade, and I'm kind of getting used to adjusting swapping classes.   
JAKE PEAVY:   Did you have any trouble getting out of class or were your teachers understanding?   
WYATT PEAVY:   A couple were understanding, but a couple were kind of mad (laughter).   
THE MODERATOR:   Do you have homework with you?   
WYATT PEAVY:   I haven't done any of my homework, but‑‑  
JAKE PEAVY:   You most certainly have.   You haven't?   
WYATT PEAVY:   No, sir.   
JAKE PEAVY:   Judson Lee, I know you have.   I saw you doing your work, didn't you, yesterday?   
   
 Q.   Is he in kindergarten?   
JAKE PEAVY:   He's in kindergarten.   I didn't know kindergarten sent work, but they did.   
This is a special time, y'all, and I'll reference that.   And I know school was a very important thing, and it's obviously very important in being a parent.   At the same time, last year was the first time in 12 years I ever got to experience seeing the playoffs all the way through, and there is nothing more than‑‑ nothing in life is worth anything if you can't share it with somebody, and especially the people you love.   
These boys saw it through last year.   We missed some school, and obviously tutoring to make up tests and stuff.   It gets to be a hassle at times, but it's all worth it in the end because these are memories these guys will have for a lifetime and I'll have.   I didn't know we'd do it two years in a row, but I'm certainly excited about it, and I know they are, too.   
I will tell you this.   I have an older boy this I think gets excited maybe about as much as Hunter Pence.   These two‑‑ you don't get excited to play baseball like Hunter Pence.   Wyatt's kind of in the moment.   He's excited to do this press conference.   He's excited to go to the hotel and order room service.   Wyatt's really excitable.   Judson is just getting into it.   And Judson actually told me on the bus, this is a quote‑‑ can I tell them what you told me on the bus about what you were going to do?   
JUDSON PEAVY:   I can't remember.   
JAKE PEAVY:   I'll remember for you.   He told me he couldn't be an inventor anymore.   He was going to be an inventor but he decided today he was going to be a professional baseball player.   So daddy was excited about that.   I think it had something to do with the airbus, and the gummy bears they gave us on the plane.  
   
 Q.   Judson, who is your favorite player?   
JUDSON PEAVY:   I don't know.   
JAKE PEAVY:   You don't know?   You don't have a favorite baseball player?   
THE MODERATOR:   It's not your dad?   
JAKE PEAVY:   It's not daddy?   True love.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT