WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC: ROUND ONE
March 6, 2006
Jake Peavy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  How does this compare emotionally and preparation-wise to the start against Clemens last year and starting against the Cardinals (inaudible). 
 JAKE PEAVY:  Well, I think this is -- I mean, emotionally this is right up there with anything I've ever done on a baseball field. 
 This is -- there's no doubt special starts get you amped up.  Starting Clemens last year was cool for me.  You know, we've talked about that.  That's been a good piece of conversation here.  But the start against the Cardinals is probably my ultimate -- I mean, obviously, I went into it not in a way I would have liked and it didn't go the way I would have liked it.  But the preparation is no different here. 
 Obviously, it's under a lot of different circumstances.  With you know, the pitch counts and going three innings. That's going to be different.  But emotionally, as far as excited, I can't tell you that -- I mean, this is probably the coolest thing I've ever done.  This is coolest thing is to be with this group of guys, have a chance to represent my country in America's pastime. 
 It's just -- words can't put into -- I can't put into words how -- what it means to me.  We just -- the boys just went together and realized how good of a time we were having and hired a photographer to sit there and take candid shots of us in the clubhouse.  And this is something that -- that you're going to remember the rest of your life.  So it's up there.  This is one of the coolest things I've ever done. 
 Q.  How does it compare to what you thought it would be before you got here and now that you been through a few days of this? 
 JAKE PEAVY:  It's better than I thought it would be.  I didn't know.  I almost thought it would be like an All-Star game.  I went to the All-Star game for the first time last year.  I went on that Japan trip.  That Japan trip was cool to a certain extent as well.  We got to spend time more time than you do at an All-Star game with teammates. 
 And you are a team for eight games over there.  But when it all comes down to it, you've got MVPs in games and you're all wearing different uniforms.  It's not really the team concept.  I can't -- I mean, this bunch of guys, this 30 guys we have put together here is a team, it's so cool.  I know you guys aren't able to be in the clubhouse, but it's so cool to watch a group of Superstars and celebrities, which are in that, come together as a team.  And joke and pick with one another in a time like you do in a regular clubhouse.  I think that's the coolest thing is when these boys are walking in here the egos are checked at the door. 
 Obviously, you know, guys in there could -- everybody is somebody and could walk around with their chest blowed out, but it's not like that at all.  You know, you got the Yankees and Red Socks guys in there pulling, you know, the same rope. 
 That's hard for us and I'm sure you guys to grasp.  But it's going to be very cool tomorrow when we're sitting in that dugout pulling for our guys and wanting nothing more than a win for our country. 
 Q.  You're going for like -- it's different for you because you have a particular slot.  You know, because Buck isn't necessarily saying you've got to do you 65 pitches.  We're going three innings, and if it's 30 it's 30; if it 50 it's 50, whatever.  You get your job done.  You sit down -- 
 JAKE PEAVY:  Right. 
 Q. -- and essentially let the next ten guys do their job. 
 JAKE PEAVY:  Right.  And that's what we're gunning for.  And this is still spring training, too.  If I go out and have a real quick three innings, I gotta go down to the bull pen and get some work in and be prepared for the next couple starts if that happens and I have them. 
 But right now I'm slated to go three innings, and I'm going to let it all hang out for three innings.  You know, what I got to bring to the table, Mexico is going to get it tomorrow.  You know, whatever. 
 Q.  Your ribs are okay this time? 
 JAKE PEAVY:  Yes, they are. 
 Q.  What about this Mexican team and the lineup? 
 JAKE PEAVY:  They're a very good ball club.  These kinds of ball clubs scare me, because they're a very, very solid ball team.  Sometimes you see a team of superstars and celebrities, kind of like the Yankees were last year, not get it done. 
 And you got a bunch of guys -- I mean, this Mexican team, they're not running out -- you know, they got a very, very good baseball team with a lot of proven Major League Baseball players on that roster.  I mean, Rodrigo Lopez, you know, his credentials speak for themselves.  He's capable of shutting anybody out on any given day.  He shuts the Yankees out all the time. 
 That's basically the same line up as we got, so... (laughter)  So it's just going to be -- I got to the utmost respect for the opposition.  I just -- they're going to get everything I got tomorrow, and hopefully we come out on top. 
 Q.  Jake, expectations are understandably higher for the US Team to the point where anything short of winning the whole tournament is not suitable.  Do you feel that as a responsibility or added pressure?  How does that sort itself out? 
 JAKE PEAVY:  You know what, I think -- there's no doubt that we have pressure on us.  Do I think the guys in there feel that pressure?  No, I don't.  I feel no pressure about going out and performing.  I know what I'm capable of doing.  And, I mean, on opening night with the Padres, I'll know what I'm expected to do, but I won't feel any pressure to do that.  I'll just go out and do it. 
 So I think the guys in that clubhouse, there's no doubt anything short of winning this whole thing is going to be a failure and a disappointment to us.  I think that all 30 guys right now have the mindset of winning this thing, and expect to. 
 But I don't think that we're putting all this pressure on ourselves, going, "We gotta win."  We're going to play nice and easy and relax. 
 Q.  (inaudible) from Roger now established and you've good relationship you talked to them about the situation at hand? 
 JAKE PEAVY:  You know what, we haven't really talked a ton about that.  You know, we just talked about obviously being careful and knowing your body and its limitations this time of the year and what you can and can't do and go off that.  So but we haven't really talked much about that. 
 Q.  Jake, you've been able to pitch a couple of different ways through your career to manage pitch counts.  Is tomorrow going to be an all-out deep in the count game, or are you trying to be economical and possibly go deeper? 
 JAKE PEAVY:  I'm not looking to be economical.  My arm feels good.  I'm healthy.  I've got 65 pitches.  From the get-go, they're going to get everything I got.  And obviously it's a lot different starting a game then when you got to go three innings.  It almost seems like a joke.  Other than spring training, I've never had a game that meant anything go three innings. 
 Obviously you set out on those play off games or those big games and you're expected to take the ball for nine.  So you pace yourself.  You do whatever. 
 Three innings, you know, it's kind of like a sprint.  Here's it is for three innings.  See ya.  Then you hand it off to the next guy. 
 Q.  If you have a low pitch count, can you go four or five? 
 JAKE PEAVY:  I don't think you can.  Right now I think I'm scheduled to go three innings.  I think that's all I'm going to do. 
 Q.  Jake, some of the players, patriotism is the first word that comes out of their mouth.  Where are you on on that whole thing? 
 JAKE PEAVY:  Like I said, the amount of pride that I've had every day that I've walked in here and saw this jersey hanging, you know, they'll have all your other ones, you know, hanging up. 
 And in your locker room, this one will be facing you.  They'll stagger them, US, and some of them will have your name and number on the back. 
 Like I said, words can't describe how happy I am and honored I am to put this uniform on, and with the guys to put this uniform on and represent this country.  This is the best country in the world, and to get to represent it in anything, you know, is awesome.  So I just -- it's awesome. 
 I don't even know what to say.  It's a coolest thing I've ever done.  I'll tell you that. 
 Q.  As the games start, are the guys playing you pretty hard, or do you they leave you alone with this -- 
 JAKE PEAVY:  There's been a few jokes about it, but then, you know, some of the guys have picked at it.  But most of the guys have, you know, just pump you up.  That's what's been so cool about this bunch of guys turning into a team and already starting to get it going. I can't tell you.  I mean, I can only speak for myself.  There's 29 guys in there like little kids.  We're so excited to play tomorrow.  I mean, this is -- we're very excited to get this thing underway. 
 Q.  (inaudible) with your team mate Vinny Castilla? 
 JAKE PEAVY:  You know what, I'm not going to take it easy on Vinny.  I'm going to try to get him out.  If he's pitching inside I'm going to pitch inside.  If it means -- doing what I can do to get him out and win games for this team is all I care about right now. 
 Obviously I wish best for Vinny.  Me and him will be pulling the same rope for a long time here in these next months to come.  Adrian Gonzalez as well. 
 But tomorrow it's all about the United States and America, and I'm going to do everything I can do to win this game for my country. 
 Q.  Given those emotions and your own emotional nature, is it going to be difficult to reign that in tomorrow when you need to, or does that work to your advantage? 
 JAKE PEAVY:  I think it's going to work to my advantage.  I'm an emotional player.  I wear my emotions on my sleeve.  These guys know where I stand from the time I walk in the door to the time I leave. 
 You know, I'm going to be as excited and pumped up as about anything I've ever done on a baseball field tomorrow, and I think it will play to my advantage. 
 Q.  (inaudible) Risk you guys are taking and getting hurt.  How concerned are you about that and particularly (inaudible). 
 JAKE PEAVY:  Well, I'm not concerned at all about 
getting hurt.  I never -- obviously there's been times that you pull back a little when your body is telling you you can't go as hard as you -- I've done everything that I know possible with my training staff with the Padres and with this training staff here. 
 With my strength conditioning coaches, my pitching coaches, to get to get physically and mentally prepared to pitch in this thing without thinking I'm putting any risk -- you know, I wouldn't do it to myself, but I wouldn't do it to my organization and my team mates. 
 If I thought was risking injury in this thing, I wouldn't play.  You know, but like I said, I'm as healthy as healthy can get.  I have no injuries.  Knock on wood we'll get out of this thing injury-free. 
 Q.  Was your preparation different coming into this than like normal spring training? 
 JAKE PEAVY:  It wasn't too much different.  I started about a week earlier.  And just the intensity of my bullpens made a difference, I think was the main difference.  I think that's what the guys would tell you.  When your throwing bullpens, the first couple you throw in spring training is just nice, easy, relaxed.  Getting off the mound, hitting the field.  That wasn't the case this here.  I was trying to get sharp, because I know these gamesmatter.  You can kind of do that in the spring training games when you've got a secure job on a big league team. 
 But this means something, so I dialed it up a little bit in that respect. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT