UL INTERNATIONAL CROWN
July 19, 2016
Sei Young Kim
Amy Yang
In Gee Chun
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
KRAIG KANN: Good afternoon, everyone.  Welcome into the pressroom here at Merit Club and the 2016 UL International Crown.  This is Team Korea.  They are the overall No. 1 seed.  The Republic of Korea is in Pool A along with Australia, China, and Chinese Taipei.  We're joined by Sei Young Kim, So Yeon Ryu, In Gee Chun and Amy Yang.  Let me get some comments from each of you.  We'll start with being back here to play in the UL International Crown.  Only one player sitting here has played the last time, and that's you, So Yeon.  What are your thoughts about coming back.   
SO YEON RYU: Well, this tournament in 2014 was one of my top 5 tournaments in my professional year.  The reason why is I had just so much fun.  This is not just about golf.  This is totally festival.  I had so much fun with my teammates.  Like to be honest I was not really close to Na Yeon or I.K. before I played this tournament, but we started to talk about how can we play better when we're playing as a team.  Then we started to talk about like whole life, how can we live this life even enjoyable, that type of thing.  Then I.K. and Na Yeon got close, and we've all been just really great friends.  I was able to feel like true friendship and true sportsmanship while I'm playing this tournament, so that was a part I really enjoyed.   
But to be honest, we were a little disappointed with to finish third.  We were expecting to hold the beautiful crown, but we couldn't do it.  I'm so excited to get back here and have another opportunity to have pretty crowns.   
KRAIG KANN: Let me ask each and every one of you, and start with you, Amy, you've had a very good couple of years to qualify to play in this event.  How much did you think about playing here in the UL International Crown and representing the Republic of Korea?   
AMY YANG: This was one of my biggest goals to make it to this year, and I'm very excited to be part of Team Korea and also honored, proud.  Really looking forward to play with these girls this week.   
KRAIG KANN: In Gee, you won the U.S. Women's Open.  What are your thoughts about making this team and playing for Korea?   
IN GEE CHUN: I feel so honored to represent my country of Korea with the world's best players.  This is my first time to put the Korean national flag on the professional stage.  This time I think I can enjoy the competition.   
KRAIG KANN: What about you, Sei Young?  You've had a really good two years for yourself, and now you get to play for your country.  Are you excited?   
SEI YOUNG KIM: Yeah, I'm so excited.  I have a lot to think about at this tournament before, so I'm a really long time waiting for this tournament because I heard a lot for this tournament from So Yeon and a couple players that it's very fun, and it is very exciting, yeah.   
KRAIG KANN: So Yeon, being on this team, you played the last time.  My guess is you all look up to her.  How has she helped you this week?   
SEI YOUNG KIM: She's a very smart player, so yeah, we're both very aggressive players, so yeah, I think we'll make a good team.   
KRAIG KANN: Are you saying you're going to play together?   
SEI YOUNG KIM: Yeah.   
KRAIG KANN: You're giving away some pairings here.   
SO YEON RYU: It's spoiled.   
 Q.  Have any of the rest of you three ever played for Korea outside of Asia, or will this be your first time representing your country outside of Asia?  
SEI YOUNG KIM: Oh, yeah.  When I was young, the national team, I had a lot of national competition.  Yeah, I had a lot of memories.  Seems like this tournament, back to the -- yeah, junior golfer, yeah.   
IN GEE CHUN: It's my first time outside Asia.   
AMY YANG: This is my first time, too.   
 Q.  How much experience do any of you have in match play?  
AMY YANG: I have played some match play in junior golf in Australia and a few -- we used to have Sybase Match Play on the LPGA Tour.  So yeah, that's it.  After the tournament I haven't played match play.   
IN GEE CHUN: I have three times played match play, in KLPGA Tour.   
 Q.  So Yeon, the Americans and Koreans, 1-2 seed, and it was like that last time.  What was it like for the Americans and Koreans to meet in the playoff last year, and how big a deal was that back in Korea?  
SO YEON RYU: Well, to be honest, I was really, really nervous, even before we teed off in the playoff, Inbee and I talked about how nervous it was.  Then Inbee and I both agreed, even this is nervous moment than U.S. Women's Open championship putt.  That was how nervous we were.  Even two years ago we were our seed No. 2, then America was No. 1, so obviously No. 1 and 2 had to play the playoff, and that was pretty amazing thing and pretty scary thing.   
Then at the moment that Lexi and Cristie played for America, then there was hole 16 was easily reachable par-5 for Lexi.  Lexi is such a long hitter.  Nobody really wanted to play for Korea because we knew it was going to be really, really tough, to be honest.  But we handled it pretty well, but one thing I can really tell is it was most nervous moment in my professional career.   
 Q.  Tell us about the format of the game.  I have a hard time grasping exactly the rules.  Do you guys feel comfortable about it?  
SO YEON RYU: We're going to play against each country at the same pool, so we're going to play against Australia, China and Chinese Taipei until Saturday.  Then if someone is to make the final round, the five countries are going to play all single matches on Sunday.   
 Q.  Do you feel comfortable about the rules, the format?  
SO YEON RYU: Yeah, I played this tournament two years ago, so I'm pretty comfortable with that.  I don't really have any question or curiosity about the rule.   
 Q.  On the question about meeting the Americans in the playoff, even though it was just a playoff to survive it, how big a deal was it back in Korea that you guys beat the Americans in that playoff format?  
SO YEON RYU: Well, I think maybe it was not really a big matter of who we're going to play with because the thing was we had to survive for like Sunday to make the final round.  I think back in Korea like all the Koreans was definitely nervous to see we cannot going to play on Sunday.  Plus everybody knows America is a really strong team.  I think it was really anxious moment for them, as well.   
That was the reason why we were all a bit scared to play in the playoff.   
I would say back in Korea, that was like really anxious moment, and I don't think they really wanted to believe that we actually put the situation for them.   
KRAIG KANN: I want to get your thoughts, Amy, did you watch the last time?  Did you watch 2014, the competition?   
AMY YANG: No, I'm sorry.   
KRAIG KANN: So you don't have any bad memories, you come in all excited.  What about you, In Gee?  Did you watch in 2014?   
IN GEE CHUN: No, I did not.   
SO YEON RYU: I'm disappointed.   
KRAIG KANN: Sei Young, did you watch in 2014?   
SEI YOUNG KIM: I watched it.  (Applause.)   
 Q.  Girls, what have you enjoyed most about the city of Chicago?  
SO YEON RYU: Well, actually I just arrived yesterday, so I haven't really much time to take around the Chicago city.  But I heard Chicago pizza is really nice and we've been talking about that, so we're definitely going to have a Chicago pizza some day this week.   
KRAIG KANN: Sei Young, have you been to Chicago before?   
SEI YOUNG KIM: No, this is the first time, yeah.  I have a lot of fun ties to Chicago because here is a lot of interesting culture.  Yeah, it's exciting to be here, yeah.   
KRAIG KANN: Have you been here before, In Gee, to Chicago?   
IN GEE CHUN: This is second time here.  I was after U.S. Women's Open here, and I watched Adele's concert.  It was great.   
AMY YANG: This is my first time, and I have never been to Chicago city, and I would like to one day, some day.   
 Q.  So Yeon, you were telling us at the Women's Open about an event for Korean players on the LPGA versus KLPGA players.  Was that a new event last year?  
SO YEON RYU: Yeah, it was the first event last year that we played against the KLPGA players.  But it was like really awkward, because we were all Korean, as well, but we played in Pusan in Korea in December last year, then everybody just pretty much supporting KLPGA players other than LPGA Korean players.  So we were feeling like, oh my God, we must feel like a very kind of western, you know, like -- we were not really feel like part of Koreans, so it was really tough.  But we won that tournament.  It was so much fun.   
 Q.  Do you think that helps for the match play situation to feel more comfortable, because I'm assuming that's the only match play event in Korea.  
SO YEON RYU: Yes, for sure, but we played a foursome and four-ball both, but this week is just only four-ball.  If it's foursome, I think we need to prepare a lot of things.  We really need to talk about who's going to play first and who's going to hit the tee shot, who's going to care about the short game thing.  But this is four ball, so I think all we need to do is just play -- everybody knows how to play great golf, so all we need to do is just do what we are normally doing.   
Well, it might be -- I think it definitely helps to have really good match play experience, but I think four-ball play is not really big difference.   
 Q.  You spoke before about how two years ago it was a very bonding thing, for you especially, to be with the other players.  Have you talked to these three about that since they've never been in this format before and how important it is to bond as a team?  
SO YEON RYU: Yeah, actually I talk quite a lot of things about my good memories to them, and I just told them what was the situation two years ago, what was tough, what was fun.  Also, you know, like two years ago I was youngest at that team, but I'm not youngest anymore on this team.  So it feels a little different way, too, how I talk to them.  But yeah, I think -- I already gave a lot of advice for them what I can do, then all we need to do is just do our best.   
 Q.  In Gee and Amy, a lot of people ask, why so many Korean players are doing so fantastic in LPGA?  What do you think is the reason behind it?  
AMY YANG: I'm thinking just one thing.  They work so hard.  So hard.  They just -- they give 100 percent to be part of LPGA and the world's best players.  I think that's it, yeah.   
IN GEE CHUN: I agree.   
 Q.  Any language barrier problem?  
AMY YANG: It's hard to learn a second language.  It's very hard to be good at it.   
 Q.  So Yeon, how big, how popular will this event become when it's played in South Korea in two years?  How big will this be?  
SO YEON RYU: Well, like in Korea, women's golf must be top three sports in Korea, but we never really had a big match play, like big national team play.  It's like, you know, like in America and Europe they have Solheim Cup.  But we do have Korea versus Japan tournament, but we lost it.  Right now we're just playing like Korea, Japan, Australia versus Europe or something, so that one is not really big anymore.  So Korea is always kind of craving to have a really -- like sort of big power to cheer on something like Solheim Cup.  So we were always kind of jealous to see American and Europe have such a great tournament.  But right now International Crown is perfect one for us.   
This is a really big deal for all Koreans, so this tournament is definitely really famous and popular in Korea right now.  Then for sure it's going to be even bigger in the future, and especially we're going to play in Korea in 2018.  That reason actually makes Korea more excited about this tournament.   
KRAIG KANN: You're in the pool, as I said before, Pool A with Australia, Chinese Taipei, and you open with team China and Shanshan Feng.  You talked about the disappointment of finishing third, So Yeon, and not being able to wear the crowns at the end.  Could you talk about the importance of a good start for the Republic of Korea on Thursday against China?   
SO YEON RYU: Yeah, definitely, especially two years ago Inbee and I won the first match, then I.K. and Na Yeon lost the first match, then they just lost so much confidence.  That was the reason why I think they really struggled with it, but they definitely did their best, but they kind of disappointed they lost the first match.  As you said, the first match is really important.   
Yeah, I've talked about that for them.  But yeah, it's not only first match.  Every match is important, and we do have a best player in here, so I hope we can win every match.   
KRAIG KANN: Best of luck this week.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT