CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 18, 2015
Sei Young Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: Happy to be joined in the media center by Sei Young Kim, Louise Suggs Rookie of the Year, three‑time winner this year. How has the season been for you? 
SEI YOUNG KIM: This season, it's a lot of help when it came to me, so I'm very happy. Three times won and then so a lot of peoples cheer me and it's been a happy.

Q. When you came over to compete on the LPGA, did you expect to make this big of an impact this early in your career?
SEI YOUNG KIM: No. Just one time, one win, I expected. But three times, I couldn't expect that. Amazing. Yeah, I'm just grateful.

Q. What's been the most difficult thing for you coming over here and adjusting to life on the LPGA Tour?
SEI YOUNG KIM: The courses are very different compared with the Korea courses. The caddy, we are different rankings. Then the first time very hard, struggling with that, but after a couple tournaments, we are more comfortable and play getting better.

Q. What's the most difference between the Korea and the U.S. golf courses?
SEI YOUNG KIM: Korea, I think in Korea I don't need a lot of skills, just straight and win the shot. But in America, I need the cut shot, low shot, high shot and then how to using a (indiscernible) is the most important to me. So yeah, sometimes I'm very confused because I need a lot of‑‑ I have to memorize a lot of skill.

Q. You think your golf style fits in more for America than Korea?
SEI YOUNG KIM: I think American course exactly to me, because I like the creative play, I like the creative play. I have a lot of imagination shots. It's very interesting.

Q. Last year Lydia Ko had a great rookie season. You won three tournaments this year in your rookie season. We're seeing a lot of good young players. Do you think that's something that will continue with all the golf programs and player development at an early age? With the success Lydia had last year and the success you had this year, other young players and the different programs for young players, do you see‑‑ do you think we will continue to see a lot of young players making an impact like you and Lydia have done? 
SEI YOUNG KIM: I think the young player more practice a lot and then more have lesson. That's the reason I think so, yeah. 

Q. Has there been someone this year that's really helped you out? Maybe another player? Maybe Paul, your caddy, who's really made a difference for you to help get more comfortable with the LPGA game?
SEI YOUNG KIM: Yeah, Paul is a really important to me. If he not, I couldn't make this career. He's a veteran caddie, long time play, and he's a lot of‑‑ he has a lot of experience that's very helped me. 

Q. One thing you would do different this year looking back?
SEI YOUNG KIM: I think the same. 

Q. Wouldn't change anything? 
SEI YOUNG KIM: When I came first time stay, so nobody didn't know me. After now, a couple peoples know me. "Sei" and cheer me, so I'm very excited. Wow, American people know me. 

Q. How much more comfortable are you with English now that you've been here for a year and are you ready for your speech on Thursday? 
SEI YOUNG KIM: I prepare a lot with my manager and then my friend. They fix my sounds. So I'm very look forward to tomorrow.

Q. Are you nervous about it?
SEI YOUNG KIM: Very, very. 
THE MODERATOR: Thank you for the time. Best of luck this week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT