BLUE BAY LPGA
November 1, 2015
Sei Young Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MEGHAN FLANAGAN: Well, it's my pleasure to welcome in the 2015 LPGA Blue Bay champion, Sei Young Kim.
Sei Young, I just feel like you're so clutch in these high-pressure moments.  You've won your first two wins in playoffs; a clutch putt here.  What is your secret?
SEI YOUNG KIM: I don't think, I was like really nervous on the last putt.  I can hear my heart pound.  I was just sitting down, yeah.  When I hit the ball, I draw in my mind, nothing, nothing, I just focus what I do.  That what's my key.
Q. On No. 17, how were you trying to, as you said, sitting down, calm down, how do you calm yourself down before the tough 18th hole?
SEI YOUNG KIM: On the 17th hole, I try to cut a shot because the pin, there's no room behind, and I made a mistake.  I was very upset after that hole.  My caddie told me, calm down.  After two players miss that putt, I got a new opportunity come to me.  So yeah, then, yeah, just keep going.
Q. You have done very well this year all season.  You have three titles under your belt and also your ranking after your victory here will jump from No. 11 to the Top-10.  Did you ever think about that at the beginning of the year?  And most likely you'll win the title, Rookie of the Year.  What do you make of that?
SEI YOUNG KIM: Yeah, this year my target was just three wins, but I reach the win, so I feel very fulfilled.  I also come through Rookie of the Year, so I would be very honored to win that.  When I played in the KLPGA, I wanted to be Rookie of the Year but I couldn't make that, but maybe LPGA I can make it.
Q. The conditions before the rain and after the rain, especially the conditions of the green; what is your comment on that?
SEI YOUNG KIM: I thinks first in practice, the greens are very grainy.  I try to hit a very slow stroke.  That was working good for me.  And then this course is a factor -- the factor I think the wind, how to use the wind, cut shot, low shot, high shot.  I practice a lot with my caddie and that's good work.
Q. You went through up-and-downs from leading position to behind and then you took the lead again.  On 17, it was a tie situation, and you really had to make a birdie in order to win on the last hole.  Were you nervous?  What was going through your mind as far as your mind-set?
SEI YOUNG KIM: The first nine, the front nine, my shot, I'm struggling with my shot but very confident in my mind-set.  I try to keep make the same stroke.  Then after the front nine, I tried to make birdies, but it's not good for me.  Caddie, Paul, told me, you're being patient and if you're patient, it's good for you.  So, yeah, it was good.
Q. Would you return to this beautiful Blue Bay next year?
SEI YOUNG KIM: Yeah.
Q. To defend your title?
SEI YOUNG KIM: Yeah.
Q. On the last ten holes, especially your approach to the green really impressed me, quite a bit.  Which stroke impressed yourself the most?
SEI YOUNG KIM: I can say the last putt, yeah.
Q. What shot was the best today?
SEI YOUNG KIM: The last putt.  And hole No. 10, yes, my second shot into the hazard, but I make the chip-in.  So that was the best shots today.
Q. How important was 10 to stay in?
SEI YOUNG KIM: That chip happened to me -- so that just happened and so I trust more that I can win.
Q. So at that hole, you thought I could win this?
SEI YOUNG KIM: Yeah.
MEGHAN FLANAGAN: So you're going to be fourth in the Race to the CME Globe.  Have you been thinking about that at all?  Is that your next goal going into the last couple of events?
SEI YOUNG KIM: Yeah, now my new goal, CME.  I made the new goal.  I have one more tournament, México, and then CME.  I make México and then a new challenge at the CME.
Q. Who in your career, who has been influencing you most?
SEI YOUNG KIM: A lot.  My crew is my caddie, Paul, and then my dad.  This week, my brother, third time come to the tournament with me.  He's helped me a lot.  My dad and my coach, and my trainer.  Trainer helped me a lot about mental and physical.  The crew is important.
Q. Who would you like to share most this victory?
SEI YOUNG KIM: With my dad.  I would say with my dad.
Q. Your competitors are also vying for the Rookie of the Year, but obviously you're doing better than them.  What is your secret?  Is it the fact that you are more adaptable to the lifestyle in the United States?  Do you think it's because you've done a better job adapting to playing in the LPGA Tour and living in the US and playing in the US?  Do you feel you've gone a good job at that, transitioning?
SEI YOUNG KIM: Yeah, I think playing in the KLPGA, I think that the courses are usually not my type.  When I see a right side, there's always -- I can see -- usually KLPGA course is very narrow and I have to hit very precise shot.  But on the LPGA, the courses are more creative play and using a lot of skill.
Q. What's your goal next year, because your World Ranking position will jump to No. 8 starting from tomorrow:  Winning a Gold Medal or being No. 1 next year?
SEI YOUNG KIM: The first goal is Olympic Gold Medal.  And then next my goal is No. 1.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT