KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 14, 2015
Sei Young Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MOLLY GALATIN: Good afternoon, I'd like to welcome Sei Young Kim, the runner-up at the KPMG Women's PGA Championship.  Bit of an up-and-down day for you, but you have to feel pretty good about your performance this week, don't you.SEI YOUNG KIM: I'm very satisfied with my game today except a few putts didn't fall today.  That's the only thing that I regret that I didn't play a good game today with the putter.MOLLY GALATIN: You finally let Inbee win one, after the Lotte Championship and the Pure Silk Bahamas LPGA Classic.  What have you taken away from playing with Inbee so often?SEI YOUNG KIM: I felt that Inbee was a solid player, and I also realize that she knows how to defend herself when she's in trouble.  Those things, to be No. 1 in the world, I need to learn that to get close to her to be second to No. 1 in the world.MOLLY GALATIN: What was your strategy coming into today?SEI YOUNG KIM: As I said yesterday right here, I wanted to have a very aggressive game today and I shook off a few holes in the beginning, and hopefully I settled down and played well.  I couldn't pull it out, so I still left something out there today.Q. You battled back after some early problems, and then the ninth hole, the ninth green, could you explain what happened there on those putts, the short putts that you missed, very crucial?SEI YOUNG KIM: Well, when I had trouble on a few holes on the front nine, the first few holes, I wasn't sure about my putting for a couple of holes.  When I arrived to the ninth hole, I tried to putt, that's when everything kind of fell apart.  I felt something wrong with that, so I had a problem with the ninth hole.  Fell apart there.Q. With today's performance, you're now No. 2 in the world.  Can you just talk about what that means to you, great start to your career?SEI YOUNG KIM: I felt that I'm in the right place right now, but I believe that with my ability, I could be better.  I could be better, so I will try hard to get close to No. 1.Q. If you were going to describe the way Inbee plays, how would you describe Inbee as a golfer?SEI YOUNG KIM: Inbee was very tight today, and I tried to find the chance to get close to her, but I didn't have my A Game to get there today.Q. But what do people say about her in Korea?  What kind of celebrity is she at home?SEI YOUNG KIM: No. 1.  She's No. 1, yes.  (Laughter).MOLLY GALATIN: You mentioned yesterday after you finished your round that you were so excited to play with Karrie.  Did you have that same feeling when you first played with Inbee, too?SEI YOUNG KIM: Well, Karrie Webb, playing with Karrie Webb is a very honored feeling, playing with her.  But playing with Inbee today, I was not surprised, but I really appreciated her game today.Q. Before you came to the LPGA, was Inbee someone that you looked up to?  Was she someone that was kind of in a Se Ri role maybe for you a little bit?SEI YOUNG KIM: I liked both and respected both of them and their games and all that, but I will build my own style and make my own recognition in the future.MOLLY GALATIN: Congratulations on a great week.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT