KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 13, 2015
Sei Young Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  KELLY SCHULTZ: Good evening, everyone.  We would like to welcome Sei Young Kim into the interview room. Sei Young, impressive out there, you kind of held your own until one little bogey at the end on 18.  How did you feel overall about your play today.SEI YOUNG KIM: Today I played very well.  But my shot was good and then my putter really good.  But get to last hole, I'm a little -- everything was great, but up until the last hole.  I left something out on the last hole, on the 18th hole today.KELLY SCHULTZ: Was there anything in particular today that you felt really good about in your game?  Was there one particular aspect that you think was going to help you tomorrow?SEI YOUNG KIM: The last hole, bogey, hopefully is a medicine for tomorrow and I will try my best tomorrow and help me out to play better tomorrow.  I will prepare for tomorrow's round and practice even more out there on the putting green.KELLY SCHULTZ: Your caddie is no stranger to winning on this golf course.  He was caddying for Vijay twice when Vijay won out here.  How much has he been a help to you this week?SEI YOUNG KIM: Paul helped incredibly.  Also when I was told Paul won here twice with Vijay Singh.  Paul's energy transfers to me, actually, so I felt I was going to play really well here.  Hopefully tomorrow, all of his energy transfers to make sure that I will do my best to win tomorrow.Q. I believe you're known as the "Comeback Queen" in Korea.  Are you kind of happy in a way that you're trailing and not leading this championship since you've only won once when leading?SEI YOUNG KIM: I don't mind my position right now because I feel comfortable.  Sounds like I have done this before.  So tomorrow I will be aggressive and I will do my best to try to win tomorrow.Q. How has tae kwan do helped you in golf?  In what ways are there some similarities?SEI YOUNG KIM: I studied tae kwan do when I was little and I practiced for a long time.  I feel that that has helped me.  I know that based on my height, my physique, I know that I hit it a long way out there.KELLY SCHULTZ: Did it also help with your mental strength?  You seem to not be afraid of pressure situations.SEI YOUNG KIM: Well, tae kwan do is an Eastern martial art, and I'm able to do this since I was a young age.  So mentally, it helped me as much as I need to play the golf.  So definitely it helped me mentally and in everything else.Q. Will having experienced what you did at the ANA Inspiration, leading, almost winning, help you tomorrow?SEI YOUNG KIM: I regrets that after ANA, I regret that I wasn't prepared enough to win.  So that was one of the things that bothered me.Q. Specifically what was lacking in your preparation at ANA?SEI YOUNG KIM: I haven't prepared worst scenario while playing a round.  That's the thing I missed.  I only thought about that I would play the best, so I did not prepare enough if there's any worse scenario playing a round.Q. Inbee was just in here recalling that she played twice with you and you won two tournaments.  What is it about playing with Inbee that brings out the best in you?SEI YOUNG KIM: Well, Inbee plays a different game from me.  It will be that different style.  Also, I have a good memory playing with her and winning.  Because we play a different game, that will be the key to play against her tomorrow to win.Q. Speaking of good memories, the last time you played with her, you holed an 8-iron to win.  Is that something, that sort of positive thought, that you'll carry through tomorrow, and do you expect any to go in the hole?SEI YOUNG KIM: Well, that's a past story.  I want to write a new story tomorrow (laughter).KELLY SCHULTZ: Thank you and best of luck tomorrow.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT