KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 12, 2015
Sei Young Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How do you feel in your rookie season leading this major?SEI YOUNG KIM: It's very great.  Today I played very well, bogey-free.  A couple to go, a little struggling with my putting but today working well.  Again, played very well, yeah.Q. 5-under for your round?SEI YOUNG KIM: Yeah.Q. What was the key to your strong play?SEI YOUNG KIM: My shot wasn't very great but my approach shots led me to 5-under par for the round today.Q. You've won twice on Tour already this year.  Pretty successful year for a rookie.  What would adding a major mean to you?SEI YOUNG KIM: My goal for this year is to become top five in the Rolex ranking, and if I win a major, I could be one step closer to be in the top 5.Q. Was that your goal ever since you decided to come over and play the LPGA?SEI YOUNG KIM: Yeah, that was our goal the first year on the LPGA.  I thought it was a risk just to come to the LPGA to play in a tournament, so I was prepared to get ready to be where I am right now.Q. Why do you say that it was a risk to come over to the LPGA?SEI YOUNG KIM: Because I grew up in Korea and played a lot of tournaments out there, and I don't have any experience in America, so that's why I thought it could be a real challenge for me.  I've done pretty well.Q. Two wins, and obviously leading a major now.  Has it been worth it coming over to the U.S. to play?SEI YOUNG KIM: I think I made a great decision.  Playing this way, it fits the style of my swing.  I really like the course a lot.Q. What specifically about this course do you like so much?  What part of your game does it fit so well?SEI YOUNG KIM: I was inspired by Tiger Woods, how he was able to make shots and shot-making.  I was actually able to show all the shots out here on the course today.Q. You're one of the players that actually likes the tougher challenge of a major venue then?SEI YOUNG KIM: I believe I can play better in the tournaments where I can feel more pressure than being comfortable in the tournament.Q. You mentioned that you seem to be a player that thrives on the pressure; coming up with those clutch shots in Hawai'i and the hole-in-one in the Korea tournament.  What about that pressure brings out the best in you?SEI YOUNG KIM: Playing in the competitive events in Korea, it wasn't easy for me.  All that I went through, I was able to feel the pressure and play better in that situation.Q. You're likely going to be the leader going into the final two rounds.  I know in the past you said you like to come from behind and be a chaser.  How will it feel holding the lead going into the weekend?SEI YOUNG KIM: I believe in the situation I'm in right now, I'm leading the tournament, it's going to be another challenge for me.  More pressure comes in, I'll play better.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT