VOLUNTEERS OF AMERICA NORTH TEXAS SHOOTOUT PRESENTED BY JTBC
April 28, 2015
Sei Young Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   I would like to welcome Sei Young Kim into the Volunteers of America North Texas Shootout media center.   Thank you for coming in today.   Sei Young is actually coming off quite a great season this year, actually just winning the Lotte Championship in Hawai'i two weeks ago with a stunning finish, chip‑in for the playoff and then another just crazy eagle to win and claim that victory.   Sei Young, you are having such a great rookie season.   Did you expect that coming into 2015? 
    SEI YOUNG KIM:   I had expectations but I didn't think it's going to come this quickly.   But I thought about the reason it came so quickly, a missed cut in the first event, so actually that's a motivator for me.
    THE MODERATOR:   Now, Bahamas and Hawai'i‑‑ obviously you were motivated by missing the cut, but Bahamas and Hawai'i pretty nice places to win.   How did your environment and your surroundings being in paradise, great places, affect your play? 
    SEI YOUNG KIM:   Personally I like the ocean a lot, especially Hawai'i.   It wasn't really the first time for me to go there.   I used to go to Hawai'i a lot and then go to eat and maybe have fun an hour and maybe go back to my golf practice, but I got so used to that environment and it helped a lot, and it made it feel like home and comfortable. 
    THE MODERATOR:   Now, during the 2015 season you've been on top of the leaderboard quite a bit.   We've seen you a lot throughout the tournaments on top of the leaderboard.   What is your mentality going into the tournament, and how do you keep that mentality throughout the whole week, throughout the weekend? 
    SEI YOUNG KIM:   When I go to the tournament site, I think about what the course architects are trying to accomplish here, what this design is about, so I try to understand that.   I try to approach in that way.   And when I make a mistake, I try not to think about it, I just try to move on and move forward, and that seems like it's working for me. 
    THE MODERATOR:   You mentioned looking at the architecture, the planning of the course itself.   Are you familiar with this course here in Dallas, and were you able to get out during the practice rounds and really make a strategic plan for this week? 
    SEI YOUNG KIM:   Compared to last week's tournament site, I find this golf course quite easy.   It's a very scorable golf course.   So to this win this week, it will have to be a very high score, but I've been playing the last few weeks and I'm a bit tired.   I really need to focus, but I will enjoy it. 
    THE MODERATOR:   Now, off the course you have a lot of interests and activities.   You're really big into karate, got a lot of skills in karate, so what are some of the things you enjoy doing when you're not at the golf course? 
    SEI YOUNG KIM:   I like hanging out with people that I met here on the course, on the Tour, talking about the golf, of course, and then some of my spare time I'm working on my English and practicing my English.   Now I have a quite a bit of media requests, and I'm just trying to accommodate it and working on it.   But throughout the season I've played really too much and I really love other activities that I can't do much, and that's kind of a bad thing being on the Tour.   I'm kind of restraining myself from doing any other activities.
    THE MODERATOR:   You're doing very well at English, as well.   Are you working with a tutor or practicing on your own.   What's been your strategy? 
    SEI YOUNG KIM:   Movies, music, watching TV.
    THE MODERATOR:   What's your favorite show? 
    SEI YOUNG KIM:   American Drama, Modern Family.   I like that. 
    THE MODERATOR:   Do you watch Law & Order with the drama? 
    SEI YOUNG KIM:   I don't know. 
    THE MODERATOR:   With your karate and all your off‑course physical activity that you like to do, how has that worked as an advantage for your golf game? 
    SEI YOUNG KIM:   I'd have to say it's probably my distance.   I've practiced karate for a long time as a young kid and it's helped me a lot get stronger and I gained a lot of distance from it. 

Q.   (Question in Korean.)
    SEI YOUNG KIM:   The green conditions is really good, and I can read the greens quite well here.   So I can just commit to what I read and I can put a good score up. 

Q.   As a rookie how has it been your first year in dealing with the pressure and travel?   Has it been difficult?   Has it been a wild ride, like a dream come true?   How do you deal with all the popularity and all that as a rookie? 
    SEI YOUNG KIM:   I got here, I'm still trying to get used to all the travels, and I miss home a lot, I miss my family back at home, my mom, but I have golf I want to accomplish here.   Because of that, I can deal with all the homesickness.
    THE MODERATOR:   We'd like to thank Sei Young for coming in, and good luck this week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT