SWINGING SKIRTS LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY CTBC
April 22, 2015
Sei Young Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Are you still kind of aglow over how last week ended?   Are you still kind of excited about it or enjoying it?   
SEI YOUNG KIM:   (Through translation.)   Nothing different for me except that every time I go online or Internet I'm just reminded what I've done.  
I just ask myself, Have I really done this much to deserve this kind of story?   But then when I'm back in my room I forget all about it.   When I'm back on the computer I'm reminded by it again.  
It's actually pretty cool.  
   
 Q.   Tell us about arriving here.   When you came here, did you get a lot of reaction from players?   
SEI YOUNG KIM:   (Through translation.)   It was a really warm welcome from a lot of people.   Every player that I've come across on my here congratulated me and gave me a hug and said, How did you do that?   You're crazy.   You're nuts.   How did you make that happen.   
Some of the players that know in the past me say, Is that the only way you can win a tournament, come back from behind to take somebody else?   
So I've got a lot of warm reception from players, so it's been fantastic.   
   
 Q.   Not only are you leading the rookie of the year, you're also leading player of the year.   Is that something that you imagined, and how important would it be for you to win both?   
SEI YOUNG KIM:   (Through translation.)   You know, I really haven't thought much about both categories.   My main objective in coming to the LPGA in the States is to be in the top in the world rankings.   That would get me into playing in the Olympics in 2016.   
Now I'm being reminded by a lot of different people where I am, so now I'm starting to think about it a little bit.   I'm aware of what's happening.  
   
 Q.   I have a question about Paul your caddie.   How you did you get hooked up and what's that relationship been like for you?   
SEI YOUNG KIM:   (Through translation.)   I've been looking at Paul for about four years now.   Every time I had an opportunity to come play on the LPGA sponsor exemption I really checked out his style and see how he works with players.   He left a good impression on me.  
Earlier this year, late last year, when I was coming to Q‑School, qualifying school, I called Paul.   Wasn't sure if he was available, but luckily he was.   That's where it started for me.   
As it goes for my relationship, I think Paul is even and more better and is more capable than and has more ability than I had ever imagined.   
So far it's been a great relationship, and I think it's been really helping me adjust to the U.S. culture having Paul around.  
   
 Q.   What about this week?   Have you got to play the course yet?   How does it fit your game?   
SEI YOUNG KIM:   (Through translation.)   It's overall a tough course.   The fairway is very narrow, so I'm a little worried with my tee shots this week.  
I would almost say the difficulty of the course is nearest that of U.S. Women's Open.   Very tough.   I think it'll give me a great challenge this week.   I look forward to it.  
If I can do a good job this week, that's a challenge I'm looking forward to.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT