LOTTE CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY HERSHEY
April 18, 2015
Sei Young Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MODERATOR:   Happy to be joined in the media center by 2015 Lotte Championship presented by Hershey winner, SEI YOUNG KIM. 
Let's just get right to it:   The hole‑out in the playoff, what was going through your mind when you saw that drop? 
SEI YOUNG KIM:   (In English.)   I don't know what happened today.   (Through translation.)   I don't know what happened today.   When I hit my shot on 18 in regulation and saw the ball go in the hazard I thought, What have I done to deserve this fate? 
Then the gift came right back after that.   I still can't believe what just happened today.
MODERATOR:   The shot into 18 in the playoff, what did you hit?   What was the yardage?   Were you able to see it go in? 
SEI YOUNG KIM:   (In English.)   There was 140 meter, so I think about between 7 or 8.   And then I think about between the (indiscernible) and normal shot, so I chose 8 normal, and was good choice.   (Laughter.)
MODERATOR:   Questions. 

Q.   Obviously thrilling victory; incredible; historic.   How does it compare to winning the first time on the tour? 
SEI YOUNG KIM:   Couldn't be any more different.   It was completely different, because the first time around I anticipated winning the tournament towards the end. 
Today I didn't see it coming.   I don't know what I've done again to deserve this, but I feel like every time I win a tournament I have to do something crazy or overcome some type of obstacles.
I don't know why it keeps happening, but it feels good. 

Q.   Could you go over the time from when you're on the green on 17 trying to make that putt all the way through to the end of the 18th in regulation?   Tell us what you were hitting, how far you were hitting it, and what's going through your head when you see the ball go in the water on 18. 
SEI YOUNG KIM:   17 hole, maybe on the green 20 meter and downhill right to left break.
So I thought really hard really fast I thought, but isn't not fast.   Yeah. 
(Through translation.)   So after the first putt, the second putt was about five meters.   I told myself, This is probably the last opportunity I have to stay in this tournament.   I was under a lot of pressure to make that putt and I was able to make that putt.
On the 18th when I hit my hybrid I thought there was no way that it would fall into the hazard.   I thought it would come short.   When it happened I just tried to get myself under control because something crazy just happened to me.
I thought maybe something crazy will happen again, so I tried to get myself under control and calm myself, and look what happened. 

Q.   Chip‑in on 18, how far and what did you do there?
SEI YOUNG KIM:   There's a five meter, five meter, and then the (indiscernible) is straight.   I just try to focus get in the hole.   Yeah, and that's easy.
(Through translation)   It was a straight line, and just try to focus on the hole to get it in there.
MODERATOR:   Did Inbee say anything to you after you holed to beat her in the playoff? 
SEI YOUNG KIM:   (Through translation.) She said, How did you get that in, and congratulations. 
MODERATOR:   Anything else Sei Young? 

Q.   Before all this stuff happened I was going to write something about you, and I read that you also enjoy taekwondo and skateboarding.   I cannot think of three different things than skateboarding, taekwondo, and golf.   Can you talk a little bit about if these things tie‑in at all and if being in those other things helped you do crazy things on the golf course? 
SEI YOUNG KIM:   (Through translation.)   As for skateboarding, I've never tried skateboarding.   When the LPGA asked me, What are your hobbies, I said I do taekwondo, but skateboarding is something I have a lot of interest in trying in the future.
As it relates to taekwondo, my father used to operate an academy.   Every since I can remember, probably from the time I can stand up, I was always in taekwondo.   I think it really helped me from a physical standpoint.   I'm pretty small in stature, but I think that's probably the reason why I can hit a long shot and I have pretty good length in my drivers.
It helps me tremendously. 

Q.   When you went back for the playoff on the 18th tee, did you do anything different or pick the same club and hit the same shot? 
SEI YOUNG KIM:   (Through translation.)   It was completely different. 

Q.   What did you do different? 
SEI YOUNG KIM:   First one, because it went into the hazard, you know, I use my pitching wedge to the fade cut shot.   So it was different.
But at 18th off the tee 4‑iron, and it was about 140 yards.   8 club, hit my normal shot, 8 normal. 

Q.   Can you tell us now what you learned that last round at the ANA Inspiration? 
SEI YOUNG KIM:   (Through translation.)   As I mentioned, it was a motivating factor for me.
After ANA leading up to this tournament I had tough time sleeping because that was my first major opportunity to win a major tournament on the LPGA Tour.   I almost felt a little bit of guilt that I let that slip away.
At the same time, I saw the possibility and the potential that I thought that belonged there and that can win a major championship in the future.   So a lot of those lessons that I learned the last day at ANA Inspiration I was able to take in into application this week in the tournament, and I think this helped me tremendously. 

Q.   After you holed out and it's all over, talk about just the walk up to the green to go pick up your ball from the cup and what's going through your mind then. 
SEI YOUNG KIM:   (Through translation.)   First of all, I am pretty relieved that I think I can go to sleep tonight.   That's the most comforting thing. 
Throughout the round today I was telling myself, I don't know if I can live with myself if I make the same mistakes in two consecutive weeks.
I'm first of all relieved that I was able to win the tournament, and I am looking forward to going home and get some sleep tonight. 
MODERATOR:   Is that the best shot you've ever hit in your life? 
SEI YOUNG KIM:   (Through translation.)   You know, I think this is probably the second most memorable shot for me, because in 2013 on KLPGA, I won a tournament which had the biggest prize money on KLPGA.   I won that tournament by making a hole‑in‑one on 17, so that was probably my most memorable shot.   Sorry.   (Laughter.)
MODERATOR:   So you have a knack for this then, right? 
SEI YOUNG KIM:   (Through translation.)   I think this is starting to become some kind of a habit for me. 
MODERATOR:   Anything else?   Congratulations again on a great victory. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT