LOTTE CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY HERSHEY
April 16, 2015
Sei Young Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MODERATOR:   Happy to be joined by Sei Young Kim, who's our current leader at 10‑under.   Sei Young, impressive score.   What's been the key?   
SEI YOUNG KIM:   I think overall my game was in pretty good shape today.   I worked on my fade shot yesterday because of the wind, and I think that has really worked out well for me today.  
My putter was also much better.   I think that that's why I was able to play under par today.   It was a good round.  
MODERATOR:   You mentioned the fade shot.   Do you typically play a draw then?   
SEI YOUNG KIM:   Yeah, typically draw, but because of the wind I worked on my fade today.  
MODERATOR:   How difficult is that, to adjust your game almost completely overnight to play for a fade when you normally play a draw?   
SEI YOUNG KIM:   I can almost say that it was easier to make that adjustment, because I was making too many mistakes without making that adjustment.  
Overall it wasn't really that difficult.   I had a much better day because of that.  
   
 Q.   When you won in the Bahamas earlier this year, what did you learn about wining that day that would help you in the next two days?   
SEI YOUNG KIM:   That will certainly help me, but I think what will motivate me better was the fact that I didn't win last week.  
That's really motivating me this week, and that is going to get me to play better.  
   
 Q.   Starting in the morning rather than the afternoon yesterday were the conditions a little bit easier than yesterday comparing?   
SEI YOUNG KIM:   I think yesterday and today was pretty much the same, but I've looked at the pin location for the next two days.   I think it'll be very challenging.  
MODERATOR:   How do you adjust your game when you know they're going to have some difficult hole locations out there?   
SEI YOUNG KIM:   Well, I don't think there is anything I do specially, but just understanding the golf course will be tougher tomorrow, understanding the golf course and the wind and the weather.   
You don't try to beat the golf course or you don't try to beat the wind.   You just try to play along to see what you can do to get the best result.   
MODERATOR:   Any further questions?   We appreciate the time.   Best of luck this weekend.   
SEI YOUNG KIM:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT