OLYMPIC GAMES RIO 2016: GOLF
August 16, 2016
Sei Young Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. How exciting is this for you?   
SEI YOUNG KIM: It is really exciting, because after I heard the Olympic is in the golf, since I was really young, maybe 16, so I decided I prefer that tournament and that's my goal.   
I have a lot of practice for this event that means a lot for me. Because Olympics means a lot to me. It's four years, each tournament, so it's not‑‑ it is very rare. So that's why it means a lot to me.  
   
 Q. What's been the best thing about being here so far for you?   
SEI YOUNG KIM: Best thing, I think marathon. I just watch on TV, like Usain Bolt, he's awesome, amazing athletic. Because the first thing, my favourite athletic is Serena Williams. So I wanted to watch her, but she missed the cut unfortunately.   
When I get home and I turn on the TV, there's a lot of athletics, playing games, so it is awesome.   
   
 Q. Have you thought about what it means to represent Korea in the Olympics with all these other great athletes in all these other sports; that you get to do this?   
SEI YOUNG KIM: It is very special, because in Korea, a lot of amateurs for golf, they want to be professional on the LPGA. But like SeRiPak and a lot of players already did great and already did a lot of wins.   
I want to make a little more special. It is a little different than a normal tournament, so that's why I want to play here in this. That's the reason a lot of people are very focused on this tournament and all the Koreans really are excited to watch this tournament.   
   
 Q. Are you staying in the village?   
SEI YOUNG KIM: No, I'm not staying in the village.   
   
 Q. Did you get to watch the men on Sunday, standing on the podium?   
SEI YOUNG KIM: I couldn't see that. At the time I was playing the golf course. On the putting green, just a couple PGA players hit a tee shot, I saw that, Bubba Watson and Martin Kaymer. So I first met them, so it was like, oh, that was the men's playing, really so far, the driver.   
   
 Q. Did you even think about what it would be like to stand on a podium with a Gold or Silver or Bronze Medal?   
SEI YOUNG KIM: Yeah, the first thing is I want to make the Gold Medal or a Silver Medal, whatever, I don't care. But if I make the medals, definitely Gold Medal. I just enjoy what I'm doing now, and with Captain SeRiPak and my country players, I'm enjoying this week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT