NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE SEMIFINALS: ROCKETS vs WARRIORS
May 8, 2019
Mike D'Antoni
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Warriors - 104, Rockets - 99   
THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
 Q.  Mike, do you feel with you working your way back into the game, Durant being out, that you missed an opportunity here?  
MIKE D'ANTONI: Any time we lose, we feel like we missed an opportunity.   
They hit bigger shots probably than we did.  They did their part.  Again, few loose balls, few rebounds.  We just didn't come up with them, which we have been.  We got to come up with them.   
We started the game well, but then they got up on us 20 points.  It's hard to battle all the way back, which we did.  Then go into the fourth quarter and we're tied, then we just didn't get it done.   
 Q.  James was so good for most of the game, kind of quiet in the fourth.  What did you see from him?  
MIKE D'ANTONI: I mean, does whatever we need to be done.  He kind of let it go a little bit.  We scored every time that he was kind of quiet.  He reads that.   
I thought he played a monster game.  He played 44 minutes, 45 minutes.  Whatever we need from him, he gives us.  I thought he was great.   
We just weren't real sharp early.  We went down 20.  Looked like we gathered it, righted ourselves.  A lot of time when you do that, you exhale a little bit.  They're good.  Can't do it.   
 Q.  How do you look at things now going back to Houston?  
MIKE D'ANTONI: Obviously now we got two more games, got to win them both.  We are home.  It's just a must win.  We know that.  It was a must win tonight.  Must win tomorrow.  Always a must win.   
We'll be ready.  Now is the time to gather our energy and see what happens on Friday.  But we're home.  Try to get a win and come back up here and get one.   
 Q.  The difficulty Chris had to get open looks, so on, is there just too much margin of error to take those guys out, not get their normal production?  
MIKE D'ANTONI: For sure.  They'll bounce back, be ready on Friday.  That's the big thing.  Anybody can have a little bit off nights, off this, off that.  I don't have any doubt they'll be back full strength on Friday.   
Again, if we're good enough, we can beat them.  If we're not good enough, they'll beat us.  It's a competition.  We have our home court.  It's go take care of business there, then the series starts when you come back up here.  Whoever wins that one will obviously be the winner.   
It is a do or die, but I feel good about it.  I feel like we played good enough to win a couple games up here, just didn't get it done.  Keep the feeling, take care of business at home, come back up and try to get it.   
Thanks.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT