NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 18, 2007
Mike D'Antoni
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Talk a little bit about the game this evening? 
 MIKE D'ANTONI:  Obviously we played pretty well.  It was just they came out wanting to win.  And they had some energy, and Kobe kind of set the tone early. 
 I thought Amare played great.  Probably the biggest thing I'm proud of these guys, we set a record for the most assists of 50, I think, if I'm not mistaken.  52.  So that's a great thing.  They shared the ball and played hard.  And we got in a good win. 

 Q.  Can you talk a little bit more about Kobe?  You told us how nervous he was his first All-Star Game.  And tonight Doug Collins said he predicted him to be the MVP. 
 MIKE D'ANTONI:  Kobe has -- he's got a competitive edge to him, that you can sense, you can feel.  He wasn't letting up, he was the first time when he said, "Let's go guys, let's put the hammer down on them." 
 So you can just feel that edge.  And he's going to play hard all the time he's on the floor.  And he's pretty good.  He comes out pretty well. 

 Q.  From a percentage standpoint, do you think this game lived up to the hype or was there something lacking in terms of suspense? 
 MIKE D'ANTONI:  I was happy on the way it turned out.  I'm not big on suspense, since I'm on one side.  Maybe from a spectator's viewpoint.  I can only talk about our team.  And they went out and played hard and shared the basketball. 
 The first quarter we got up about 39 shots or something in the first quarter.  So I just enjoyed being around them and they shared the ball.  They all were pulling for each other.  It was a good feeling on the West side, for sure.  I don't know about the other side.  But it's hard to have great games all the time.  But I thought the players performed. 

 Q.  Was it pretty much a given that you were going to put Kobe back in for the last stretch in the fourth? 
 MIKE D'ANTONI:  Yeah.  Because we do face him a lot of times, I don't want him -- no, I think he deserved it, because the guy played hard every second and I kind of had it scripted out before the game started that he would be in the last minutes, he and Tony Parker, so that's what we went with. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT