NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SUNS v MAVERICKS
June 1, 2006
Mike D'Antoni
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   COACH MIKE D'ANTONI:  Dirk was unbelievable.  Great game.  And we had a shot at it in the third quarter and we just couldn't hold the lead.  And give them credit and they came back and won the game.   
  Q.  Mike, it seemed like the two technical fouls changed momentum?   
 COACH MIKE D'ANTONI:  It didn't help us any for sure.  I was hoping it would go the other way.  That hurt us.  It was a one-point game.  Raja got a foul, two technicals, made it five points at the end of the thing, flurry.   
 But, you know, definitely a turning point.  Then give them credit.  Dirk was unbelievable.  We just couldn't stop him.  And did a great job.   
  Q.  Mike, I'm sure you weren't expecting him to score only 11 points again, but did you expect him to score 50?   
 COACH MIKE D'ANTONI:  I don't expect that, but it doesn't amaze me.  The guy, you know, is one of the best players in the league.  Has had a phenomenal year.  And he just did everything right tonight and got to the line too many times.  We needed to do a better job.  We didn't do as good a job.  But give him credit.   
  Q.  How do you feel about Raja, he's only got one point in tonight?  Do you think he's still hurt or --   
 COACH MIKE D'ANTONI:  For sure he's not 100 percent.  He's still struggling a little bit.  As long as the series goes he gets a little better and he'll be ready to go in Game 6.   
 You know, this goes back to our house and we gotta take care of business.  If we do, we'll be back here and tee it up again.   
  Q.  Coach, just talk about Josh Howard, he seems to be an X factor.  He's not talked about a lot but he always plays very well?   
 COACH MIKE D'ANTONI:  I imagine when contract comes time he'll be talked about a lot.  The guy's good.  He's played well.  He's a great player.  He's so athletic, tough to get under control.  You're right, he's a guy that -- right under Dirk, he's the next guy that's hard to guard.  He causes a problem for us.  Does a great job.   
  Q.  Mike, it seemed like Dirk and Tim kind of just were going point for point for a while there through the first three quarters.  You had some success to him somewhat contained.  What changed in the fourth to get him on track?   
 COACH MIKE D'ANTONI:  Just his talent being seven feet shooting the ball better than anybody on the planet.  When he's on those rolls, and then he's shooting the ball so well, he would pump fake and we bit and put him to the line and he got loose.  He came up with an unbelievable game that should make them win, I think it did.   
 Again, it's 3-2, we go back to Phoenix.  We need to hold serve and come back see if he can do it again.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT