NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SUNS v MAVERICKS
May 28, 2006
Mike D'Antoni
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   COACH MIKE D'ANTONI:  You know, I thought the turning point was the end of the first half where we were up 11 and missed about two or three half lay-ups and a couple of bad plays and came in at five points up instead of about at least 11 or not 13 or 15 points.  And that came out a little flat the second half.   
 They went ahead, we kept battling and we just didn't get the thing done.  We just didn't play real smart.   
  Q.  Mike, fast break points a disappointment for you guys?   
 COACH MIKE D'ANTONI:  We got it wrong.  Didn't do it, didn't have the necessary energy.  We didn't force the issue.  I don't know if they were looking down the floor seeing a couple of their guys back.  The rest of the guys quit running.  If we don't spread the floor, hit them quick, then we'll end up with about 88 points and that's more or less what happened and we'll have to rethink and redo it and do a better job next time out.   
  Q.  Mike, you said you didn't play real smart.  Was that going in too deep against their big man when you could have settled for easier shots?  This seemed to happen a lot tonight?   
 COACH MIKE D'ANTONI:  A little bit of that but we also resorted to a lot of one-on-one playing.  In the first quarter we had one assist that's not us, that's because we weren't running and weren't moving the basketball.  We got into a half court mentality.  And I don't know if it's because, you know, the level of the game was up and we just kind of took the foot off the accelerator or if, you know, mentally tired, I don't know the reason.   
 But I know the answer.  We can't do it.  Somehow we gotta find the resilience and the effort to do it.  We'll be here in two days and we'll figure that out and we gotta do it if we want to win.  That's what we want to do.   
  Q.  The late three by Dirk, did you think it was a shot clock violation?   
 COACH MIKE D'ANTONI:  Yes.  Look at the replays, I don't know, looked like it came straight down, and looked like it.  That was a big play.  If they missed it that's a big play.   
  Q.  That possession they ended up with I think two offensive rebounds.  Is that rebounding -- is that starting to kill you guys?   
 COACH MIKE D'ANTONI:  Not those rebounds, they got all the loose ball long rebounds.  The ones that kill you are the big ones, they stand underneath and they're too big.  The other stuff they're quicker than we were.  That's inexcusable that happened a lot.  They got all the fast break points.  They got all the stuff we need to do.  If we don't find a way to do it, there's no way we can beat them by pounding.  That's not our game.  And they did better at playing small than we did.   
  Q.  Mike, at the end of the start of the fourth quarter you got it back to 72-72, Avery called time.  Did you consider going to Steve right then?   
 COACH MIKE D'ANTONI:  I was considering.  But I wanted to, you know -- first of all, we got it back with that group who was on the floor.  They were going good, second of all, if I can steal another minute or two for Steve going down the stretch big.  Scored two points if I'm not mistaken.  Called time out and went back that way.   
 Looking back, yeah, I could have changed it.  But, you know, probably next time it happens I'd do the same thing.   
  Q.  Mike, Shawn's doing such a tremendous job on the boards and has such great defensive responsibility, do you see him at all out of rhythm on the offensive end?   
 COACH MIKE D'ANTONI:  You'll have to talk to him about that.  I don't know.  We need to run the floor, I do know that, and that's everybody.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT