NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SUNS v MAVERICKS
May 26, 2006
Mike D'Antoni
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Can you give us the latest Raja update? 
 COACH MIKE D'ANTONI:  Raja is responding really well to treatment, he's walking around pretty good.  I would imagine, you know, he's not going to play tonight but probably we'll see day-to-day. 
 It's not an easy thing to overcome but he's a tough guy and he wants to play, and he'll get as well as soon as he can but I don't think anybody knows right now. 
 Q.  What do you see from Leandro the last time he had to step in for Raja a couple of series ago? 
 COACH MIKE D'ANTONI:  If Leandro plays like that we'll probably gain something.  Leandro has gear.  Full of talent.  We'll miss a lot of things Raja gives us especially the depth.  And again injuries are -- whoever takes his place has a possibility to play better.  Whether they do that or not you don't have any other choice.  And so it's just one less guy that we have to go to.  And Leandro is going to have to step up and do it. 
 Q.  Mike, you expect a greater sense of urgency on the part of the Mavs.  Does that change any type of approach you bring into this game? 
 COACH MIKE D'ANTONI:  No.  And I'm sure there will be going 100 percent.  But, you know, I'm sure they tried 100 percent the first time too.  A lot of times we talk about that stuff.  They're going to play as hard as they can play and hopefully we'll respond the same way and it should be a great game. 
 Q.  Mike, how close are we to seeing (inaudible) on the court? 
 COACH MIKE D'ANTONI:  I can't tell you.  I mean the game will dictate it and we'll see how it goes. 
 Q.  Does he feel sore? 
 COACH MIKE D'ANTONI:  I think he's okay.  Again, it's just a hard decision to -- we're a different team two and a half months ago.  I don't even know that team two and a half months ago.  We have Tim Thomas who wasn't here.  He's never played with Tim Thomas and to throw him in when you're up six like first game, takes the first game, you're up six almost the whole time to throw him in, you don't know what you're going to get and you're just afraid to do it and then you go down six and now you're really afraid to do it. 
 And so I'll just have to -- fouls might dictate it, other things.  But right now I have no idea. 
 Q.  Is this your fastest team on the court, your starting five tonight with Leandro in there and how is it a little different than with Raja? 
 COACH MIKE D'ANTONI:  Probably not as good as defensively.  Raja gives a little toughness that it really serves well.  Especially during the season for the long haul.  He's solid, and he's going to make big shots.  You know, he's already shown that.  And he'll give you that.  But for one game kind of basis, Leandro has all kinds of talent.  This is one of the fastest guys, best shooter in the league. 
 So you just don't have him coming off the bench.  He might have to go 40 minutes, 45 minutes.  If he gets some fouls then we're in trouble.  It can be complicated by a lot of things but just on paper if he comes out and has a great game, then we're okay, you know, and then we haven't lost anything. 
 But you know you have to have that mind set that, okay, what would happen if Raja would have had a bad game today and Leandro plays well.  Well, so we'll be okay. 
 Q.  Is he the fastest guy in the league with the ball in his hand? 
 COACH MIKE D'ANTONI:  You know, he's right up there.  Devin Harris is pretty quick and Tony Parker, a lot of guys in the league.  No one will be faster, but he's as quick as anybody. 
 Q.  Did either Aaron or Raja tell you anything that leads you to believe he might be available sometime in games three or four? 
 COACH MIKE D'ANTONI:  No, except Raja says I'll be ready, Coach, I'll be ready.  Other than that I don't think anybody knows.  So we'll just have to play it by ear.  Thank you. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT