NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SUNS v MAVERICKS
May 25, 2006
Mike D'Antoni
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  (On Raja Bell's injury)? 
 COACH MIKE D'ANTONI:  I don't think so because you treat it the same way, maybe get back to Phoenix just to have it because of curiosity sake.  It won't change and if it feels better then he'll go.  He's got either a strain or pull in the calf muscle and we'll have to deal with it. 
 Q.  Do you expect him back soon? 
 COACH MIKE D'ANTONI:  I just hope.  I don't know. 
 Q.  (Inaudible)? 
 COACH MIKE D'ANTONI:  He's going back today and one-on-one or two-on-two or whatever.  But it's one of those things that you gotta go -- 
 Q.  How surprised were you?  Were you able to get so many (inaudible) as you were last year if it's not your normal number? 
 COACH MIKE D'ANTONI:  No, it's not a normal number but that's because they decided because of the three-point-shooters we didn't get our three-point shots.  So they took that away and we have to capitalize in the paint. 
 Now they might look at the film and say we can't get them into the paint and we have to have three-point shots.  That's how we play either way, you can do both of them.  I don't know if you can or not. 
 Q.  (Inaudible)? 
 COACH MIKE D'ANTONI:  You gotta do it.  We just can't think about it.  We'll just do it, play for him and wait until he gets back. 
 Q.  Second chance points? 
 COACH MIKE D'ANTONI:  Play worse defense, they score the first time.  A lot easier that way.  Don't have to answer questions.  You know what, there's nothing we can do, just be more active.  Be more conscientious try to keep them off the boards.  But there's going to be, you know we have some holes in our game and that's one of them.  If it shows up like that sometimes we lose.  And we need to do a better job.  Hopefully the ball will bounce a little a little more our way and we don't get to the rebound.  Have to keep fighting it and try to do the best we can on that. 
 Q.  (Inaudible)? 
 COACH MIKE D'ANTONI:  No.  No.  That's the way it is.  We can't be -- you know, effective and running and spread the floor so much, and then expect to dominate rebound, and we can't do that. 
 And we have the team and money is allocated in a way we try to make the best of what we have.  And I think we do that, and I think that's why we're effective. 
 Q.  You had a struggle a little bit yesterday (inaudible)? 
 COACH MIKE D'ANTONI:  Yeah.  Oh, yeah, he struggled because two or three layups didn't go his way.  It was weird they were in and out.  And missed a couple of shots but overall he played a good game just didn't make the shots and that's the least of our worries. 
 Q.  Would Raja being out, does that mean -- 
 COACH MIKE D'ANTONI:  I don't think it affects him just because that's not his position.  It will affect James and Eddie House more than it does Leandro, more than it does Kurt. 
 Q.  What does it mean for your team to be able to (inaudible) maybe even less time than that? 
 COACH MIKE D'ANTONI:  Yeah. 
 Q.  It has to be just an incredibly comforting feeling to know you never feel like -- 
 COACH MIKE D'ANTONI:  Well, and just to get the type of character of guys, they don't get down.  They blow assignments, you don't see them sag their shoulders or get down or think about a fight fine, we're just playing.  And they've been resilient on different things and that doesn't surprise me at all. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT