NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: WARRIORS vs ROCKETS
May 26, 2018
Mike D'Antoni
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Were you initially concerned at all about how your team would potentially respond to knowing Chris [Paul] was out?  Was there a letdown or feeling shorthanded might affect them differently than what you described yesterday?  
MIKE D'ANTONI: No, not the way they feel or how they play.  Now, there is some concern that we're missing Chris Paul.  But other than that, they'll rally and they'll [give their best].   
 Q.  How was Chris's spirits?  Was there any thought from a treatment standpoint of perhaps being -- is it just the same here as it would have been in Houston if he had stayed treatment-wise?  
MIKE D'ANTONI: Yeah, all our doctors are with us.  He can get the same type of treatment.  Plus, he doesn't want to miss this.  He's worked his whole career to be here.  He's very responsible for us getting here, so he needs to be here.  Treatments will be the same as if he was there, here, doesn't matter.  It will take a few days, and he'll just have to do what he has to do.   
 Q.  How are his spirits?  
MIKE D'ANTONI: I'm sure deep in he's not going to let -- he's going to keep it inside a little bit.  But he's devastated.  He has to be.  We're all devastated for him.  At the same time, we'll rally and do what's right.   
But, like I said, he's so integral in what we do and the spirit of the team.  And him being here is a big deal, and him being on the bench is a big deal.  He'll will us through, if he can.   
 Q.  Will Eric Gordon be starting?  
MIKE D'ANTONI: Yes, Eric will start.   
 Q.  Given that you have to win only one game to win this series, was there some calculation that let's rest Chris Paul for 72 hours and make sure that we have a shot to play them and relatively healthy on Monday, and try to put him out here today?  
MIKE D'ANTONI: No, I think he'll play as soon as he can.  It's just not a question of trying to outsmart.  He's going to play.  As soon as he's able to walk and run, he'll do it.  There was no shot at it today, but he's getting treatments around the clock, and you never know.  The body heals at different rates, so we'll see what happens.   
 Q.  Who replaces Eric in the rotation off the bench?  
MIKE D'ANTONI: Luc Mbah a Moute will play.  It's key to find the right combination, but Luc's definitely next up.   
 Q.  As far as Joe [Johnson] or --  
MIKE D'ANTONI: Joe's there, Ryan's [Anderson] there, Nene's there.  So we'll just re-game a little bit, see what's going well and what we need.   
 Q.  One more, Coach.  You're really forthcoming with your lineups and rotation and things like that.  Some coaches prefer not to do that to give an edge.  What is your philosophy?  
MIKE D'ANTONI: They tricked us a lot of times.  I never understood that.  We are who we are.  They might have two guys to choose from, whether you're playing him or him.  Oh, it's him.  Okay, 10 minutes before. It don't matter.  You know, it's funny some of the tricks that they try and stuff.  It's cool.  But, no, I'm not that brilliant.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT