BREEDERS' CUP WORLD CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 5, 2016
Sir Michael Stoute
Chris Richardson
Lanfranco Dettori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, the winners of the Breeders' Cup Filly and Mare Turf is Queen's Trust owned by Cheveley Park Stud.  We're joined by the winning trainer, Sir Michael Stoute, as well as winning jockey, Frankie Dettori, and Cheveley's managing partner, Chris Richardson, on the left.  Sir Michael in the middle and Frankie on the right as we look up at them.  Sir Michael, if I could start with you, and perhaps you could just describe the race as you saw it for us?  We'd just like to hear it in your words?   
SIR MICHAEL STOUTE: Yeah, well, Frankie and I had a good chat.  You don't tell him too much.  He knows his way around here.  I was a little bit concerned about the 11 draw, but fortunately it looked as though it was going to be a really honest pace, which there was.   
THE MODERATOR: Frankie, you alluded in your last post race interview that the hot pace might have helped you today, the fast pace of American racing.  Could you just describe the trip that you had that looked like a good one?   
LAFRANCO DETTORI: Yeah, the pace was solid early.  I was a little bit outpaced, but let her find her feet.  When we got to the backstretch, basically tried to find the spot where I could get in a challenging position, and I was very fortunate mid-turn that I got behind the favorite.  And then on the straight, the first jump on me, and my first reaction, I thought, well, I'll be a good third.  Then she started to motor and, you know, it's funny.  It's a sure straight, but those last hundred yards make a big difference, and she got into top gear, and we flashed past the line, I was pretty much sure that we won.   
THE MODERATOR: Very good.  And, Chris, it's been perhaps a frustrating year not being able to break through at the highest level with this filly.  Can you just talk about the campaign and then stepping up today?   
CHRIS RICHARDSON: Yes, no, well, she's a very talented filly, as Sir Michael has always maintained.  It's very exciting to have had a homebred to be able to be competing at this level.  Sir Michael has been with Mr. and Mrs. Thompson for over 35 years, and it's wonderful having had a little bit of a mixed introduction to the Breeders' Cup to come here and have a fantastic day.   
The filly is hugely talented.  We've seen her perform.  She's had good draws and been a little unlucky in a number of the races that she's been competing in at the Group 1 level.  And she's shown a terrific turn of foot, and past horses like her, a true champion in the final stages of her last three starts.  That was certainly shown today.   
And, Frankie, you couldn't have given her a more clever ride.  It was just a joy to watch.  And you turning in for home, she would run to the line, and my goodness, she certainly did.  So it was just fantastic.   
THE MODERATOR: Michael, this is your third win in this race, and we were just asking about the decision to come over here for the Breeders' Cup Filly and Mare Turf.  What specifically about this filly did you think suited her for this race?   
SIR MICHAEL STOUTE: Well, she's run a great race in the Nassau behind Minding.  She had every chance that day, she just wasn't quite good enough.  But it was an excellent performance.  I looked at what was going to be lining up.  She hadn't had a tough season.  She was unfortunate, again, in her final start in England.  Came through it well, and I thought I really would like to have a crack at this Filly Mare Turf.  But I needed to persuade, and I wasn't optimistic about it, because I knew their stand.  But fortunately they came up with an affirmative, and thank God they did.   
 Q.  Frankie, this is your first time racing on her.  Did she show you anything that you weren't expecting today?  
LAFRANCO DETTORI: No, I rode her before she came to America one morning, and she didn't give me much of a feel, but Ted Durcan, who I was working with, said she's not very flash working in the mornings.  But her form has been solid.  I've been watching her all year.  I knew we had a chance because the way the race was going to set up.   
 Q.  Sir Michael, in terms of her run today, was it a lot like the Nassau?  Was it the same sort of form as that particular race?  
SIR MICHAEL STOUTE: Well, the Nassau had six.  There were 13 today, and we were drawn 11, so it was always going to be a different ball game.  We were just very prominent in the Nassau.  But here, Frankie had to be sharp and clever because the draw worried me a little bit.   
 Q.  Chris, I know it's early to think about, but would you mind maybe laying out a few of her potential targets for next year if you've had a chance to think about that?  
CHRIS RICHARDSON: Well, I obviously haven't spoken to David and Patricia Thompson as yet.  Obviously we are -- she has got a huge amount of potential.  She certainly will be staying in training next year.  No doubt Sir Michael will speak to them and we'll map out a plan as long as she obviously comes out of this race well.  You know, it's a shame that Mr. and Mrs. Thompson, Pat and David Thompson, are not here, but they are fantastic supporters of breeding and racing on an international level.  The Breeders' Cup have been fantastic in looking after us, and the support and back-up, and to come here and to actually win is a dream come true.  It really is.  I can only praise the trainer and the jockey, really, and the filly who, as I say, it's just one of those special fillies.   
THE MODERATOR: We're thrilled to have you all here.  Thrilled you brought this filly, and we'll hope to perhaps to see her back here again next year.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT