AT&T PEBBLE BEACH PRO-AM
February 11, 2016
Spencer Levin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Obviously good conditions out there, so scoring was out there for you.
SPENCER LEVIN: Yeah, I got off to a good start.  Made a couple nice putts early.  That kind of got my round going.  I had a couple good things go my way, and I'm happy with it, 6-under.  Any time you shoot 66 on any course anywhere, you're doing all right.  So I'm happy.
Q. One of those good things was that birdie putt there at 11 that downhill 24-footer.  That found the bottom of the cup.  Talk about how challenging that putt is.
SPENCER LEVIN: Oh, yeah, that putt's -- there's some putts out here that are really, really fast, and that one was probably moving pretty good.  So I'm happy that one caught the hole.
But it's one of those courses where the more you play it, the more it helps you.  I don't necessarily think that's the case for a lot of courses, but this one, you kind of learn where to miss sometimes, where certain pins are and you learn what putts are fast and what aren't.  It's one of those courses that you don't have to play perfect to shoot a good score, you just have to know where to miss it.
Q. What was the condition of the golf course today?
SPENCER LEVIN: It was great.  The greens are really good.  They're as good as I've seen them.  If you hit a good putt, it's going to stay on line for you.  And warm with no wind, you hardly ever see that here.  And not much rough either.  So you can get away with some bad shots, as long as you're in the right spots.  And the greens are perfect.  So I'm sure you'll see some good scores today.
Q. Your pro-am partner, Robert Manfred, Jr., the Commissioner of baseball.  MLB, one of your sponsors.  How was it out there?
SPENCER LEVIN: It was great.  He's a really nice guy.  I played with Bob Bowman, who ran the web site out here a few years ago and we became buddies, and he hooked me up with the sponsorship which is great.  They have been great to me.  But Rob's a really nice guy, and hopefully, I can keep playing well for him.
Q. You have great memories of this place from 2003, 2004.  Talk about good comfort zone here playing this place?
SPENCER LEVIN: Yeah, these kind of greens are the kind of greens I grew up on, the poa annua greens.  Like you said, good memories.  Played well here in the past.  You kind of get to know it, like I was saying, it's one of those courses where at least for me, if you know where certain pins are, if you can miss it in the right spots.  Obviously if you're playing well, hitting it good, it doesn't matter.  But if you can kind of miss in the correct spots it makes it significantly easier to get a ball up-and-down or hit a green.  So, I did that.  I didn't drive it that great today, I just when -- when I would miss my drives, they always ended up in a decent spot where I could play from.  And then I putted well.  I haven't putted well in a while.  So if you're going to shoot 6-under, you got to make some putts.
Q. Has the course changed since you won the California Amateur?
SPENCER LEVIN: No, I don't think it's changed at all.  What did they change?  Maybe No. 5 maybe?  I think that's about it though.  That's about it.  But then when you get this weather, it doesn't even seem like you're playing Pebble today.  I haven't played in this nice of weather hardly ever.  So it was a treat playing out there today.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT