CHILDREN'S MIRACLE NETWORK HOSPITALS CLASSIC
October 23, 2011
Spencer Levin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Nice putt, though. 
 SPENCER LEVIN: Thanks.

 Q. Were you standing over it thinking, This is the ticket to Augusta, perhaps? 
 SPENCER LEVIN: No. I played pretty well today. I just didn't putt well enough to do it. Pretty disappointing, but what are you going to do? 

 Q. If you fall, $10,000, $12,000, $15,000 short, do you beat yourself up?
 SPENCER LEVIN: Yeah, probably for a little bit. But I tried my hardest. What are you gonna do? Kinda sucks.

 Q. But it's not the end of the world.
 SPENCER LEVIN: Yeah, I guess you could still do it if you win early in the year next year. It's a possibility. 
 It's been bittersweet over the year. I had a really good, but a little better -- I think it was in Vegas, you know, I parred the last hole; in California I had about 8 feet, 10 feet on the last hole for birdie. I left it short. That would have been -- that would've done it right there.

 Q. Frys?
 SPENCER LEVIN: Yeah. And then made bogey on the last hole last week in St. Simons. I don't know how much that cost me, but probably cost me eight or nine, ten grand.
 So this last hole was better, though. (Laughter.)

 Q. I think it owed you one. 
 SPENCER LEVIN: Yeah, I guess, right? 

 Q. (Question regarding going tournament to tournament and making yourself crazy.)
 SPENCER LEVIN: Right. Yeah, that's true. That's true. I mean, you can always look at the most recent tournament, I guess. Still, every other tournament throughout the year counts for it, too. Yeah, it's not that big a deal. 
 I knew if I played well today, played 5- or 6-under today I was kind of thinking I might have a chance. 2-Under is not going to be good enough.

 Q. Can you put in this perspective? Just few years ago you and we were having a conversation about what it takes to keep your TOUR card, and now you're trying to work your way into the top 30. 
 SPENCER LEVIN: Yeah, I think we were talking, I think it was at Jack's tournament. I just feel more comfortable this year. I don't know, I mean, still obviously I still feel nerves. (Indiscernible) at certain points in the tournament or if you're playing well. 
 I don't know seems more -- a little bit more at ease with myself. Trying not to put as much pressure on myself, if that makes sense. I kind of just go, Well, if I do good this week or not, I'm still going to stay in the same type of hotel and still eat the same kind of food. 
 All in all it doesn't change my life that much. I just want to play well so that I can tell myself that I can compete with the best players.

 Q. Would top 30 have done anything else other than that be Augusta?
 SPENCER LEVIN: I think so, yeah. I think it got you into the U.S. Open, too.

 Q. No, I don't think it did. They took that away. 
 SPENCER LEVIN: Did they really? 

 Q. Yeah, I think they go FedEx. 
 SPENCER LEVIN: U.S. Open doesn't like letting (indiscernible.) (Laughter.)

 Q. British took it away, too.
 SPENCER LEVIN: Did they really? Okay. 

 Q. Does that make you feel better now? 
 SPENCER LEVIN: I guess a little bit. Now that I'm not going to make it it does. (Laughter.) 

 Q. Would you have played the last two weeks?
 SPENCER LEVIN: No, no, probably not. I might have played a couple of the last once. But once I played well at Vegas and northern Cal and I saw where I was -- because I thought I was top 30 FedEx. I didn't know it was Money List until after the northern California one. 
 I wasn't even going to go to St. Simons, and then somebody told me top 30 Money List. I saw where I was and I'm Like, Well, shoot, if can play well in one of the last two tournaments I might be able to do it. So I was originally going to take St. Simons off and then play this one just because I usually play pretty good here.

 Q. Has this been your best year, though?
 SPENCER LEVIN: Yeah, yeah, no doubt. Every year since I've been on tour it's gotten better. That's a positive way to look at it.

 Q. Confidence the main thing?
 SPENCER LEVIN: Yeah, I think so. I think so. I putted a lot better this year with that belly putter. Had a lot to do with it, too, I think. Seems to be helping everybody out.

 Q. Are you going to China, Malaysia?
 SPENCER LEVIN: Uh-huh, going to Malaysia.

 Q. Does it seem you're seeing another belly putter or two pop up every week?
 SPENCER LEVIN: Yeah, they're multiplying. I see at least one in every group now it seems like. Yeah. I don't know, I feel like these guys I play with, it seems like more than not are using some top of long or belly putter these days. It's kind of crazy. 

 Q. When did you switch?
 SPENCER LEVIN: I switched -- this tournament last year was the first time, so one full year now.

 Q. Do you think finishing 131 creates any sort of extra motivation for next year?
 SPENCER LEVIN: 31.

 Q. 31, I'm sorry. I got too many things going on in my head. Does finishing 31 bring any extra motivation going into next year?
 SPENCER LEVIN: I don't know. I just want to try and maybe -- I've heard guys, you know, they have a good year and then they get caught up in trying to do maybe different stuff to try and get better. And that's happened, you know, a million times to a lot of really good players. 
 I'm going to try my best just to try and do the same thing to do the same I did last off-season and try and keep the same stuff going. I've played this game long enough to know there is no secrets. You think you can find a secret, but there is no secrets. It's just playing good golf. 
 One little shot here and there and you think you got to change all this stuff, and really it's a putt or a chip or one little thing that will do it without changing anything. So I'll just try and stay the same. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT