JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 1, 2011
Spencer Levin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Just talk about your round today. You seemed to find something that worked for you today.
 SPENCER LEVIN: Yeah. I got off to a good start. I was a couple under through four holes. I made a long putt on 4, which was nice, for birdie. 
 Actually on No. 6, the only bogey I made I was on the green, I had to chip from on the green, which was kind of weird, and ended up making bogey. But after that I played well. I think I birdied the next three holes after that, which was nice. I played solid on the back. The Back 9 seems to be maybe a little more scorable, just with the few stretch of holes there I was able to shoot a decent Back 9. But I think the key to this course is getting off to a good start on the front nine because you know you're going to have some birdie looks on the back.

 Q. You've had a really good year. What are you kind of looking for in these last few events of the year?
 SPENCER LEVIN: You know, like they're saying, it would be nice to get a win. I know I'm going to have to shoot a really low score, but I'm in good shape. I got a chance tomorrow. I'll have to play really good, but obviously a win would be nice. It would be nice to get to the Hyundai Tournament of Champions in Hawaii. 

 Q. What about have you been looking at Money List, your position to try and get in that top 30?
 SPENCER LEVIN: You know, not really. I don't know if that's -- I think you gotta be top 30 FedEx to get in the Masters. Is it Money List, too? 

 Q. Right. Uh-huh.
 SPENCER LEVIN: And Money List? 

 Q. Yep.
 SPENCER LEVIN: Okay. Well, yeah, that would be nice. That would be cool. A win would help.
 But no, not really. It's nice to play, though, not having to worry about my card. Last year I didn't have my card locked up until after this tournament. So it's nice having that little bit of, you know, not have to worry so much kind of what happens, which is I think helps everybody's play. Definitely helps my play.

 Q. Did the course play any different today than it has the first couple days?
 SPENCER LEVIN: No, not really. I don't know what the scores are like, but it seemed to be -- there's a couple tricky pins here and there, but they did that the first couple days, too. There wasn't much wind. It played pretty similar. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT