CHILDREN'S MIRACLE NETWORK CLASSIC
November 12, 2010
Spencer Levin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. At the Palm yesterday, kind of just puts you in the pack. 68 over here starts to break you from the pack a little bit. Nicely done.
 SPENCER LEVIN: Yeah, thanks. I scored good today. I didn't really have my swing today, but I was able to get some up-and-downs, make a few putts to keep my round going, and you know, hopefully I can go work on my swing on the range and play well this weekend.

 Q. You've gotta be playing with a lot of confidence coming off the way you played in Vegas. That was some really solid golf, and it's really brought you in here with some momentum?
 SPENCER LEVIN: Yeah, yeah, yeah. I've been playing really well at home, too, last couple weeks, shooting lower scores than I ever have. So I'm playing with a lot of confidence, and everything feels pretty good. 
 I think if I can just -- my game around the greens right now feels real good. I mean I kind of butchered 18 there, but other than that, my game around the greens is solid. My putter feels solid. If I can give myself some looks this weekend, I'm sure I'll do well.

 Q. I was going to ask you what you did with your two weeks off. You were one guy who probably wanted to get right back out there and play some more, and to have a couple weeks off could break momentum, and it apparently didn't break yours.
 SPENCER LEVIN: Yeah, it was nice, too, because I was kind of on the bubble to keep my card. I was like 115. So to have a good week at Vegas kind of took a load off my mind, so I wouldn't have to worry about it so much, which was nice. 
 But yeah, I just tried to keep playing, played a little bit here and there at home. Everything felt good. Nothing really to work on with my dad. He's my swing coach. He said it looked great, so just tried to bring it out here, and I'm going to go try and figure it out right now.

 Q. Conditions out there, getting a little breezier?
 SPENCER LEVIN: Yeah, a little breezier. You know, the like 16, 17 and 18 are hard holes, but they had the tee up on 16, 17 and 18 a little bit, and they were all kind of playing a little downwind. So that -- it almost made 16 and 17 a birdie hole. 
 And then 18 is still a pretty good hole, but I think I only had 8-iron in. Those are the few hard holes. 9's a hard hole. If you can play the hard holes out here well, you'll do all right because there's some birdie holes for sure. So it's all about playing the hard holes par or better and you'll probably do good on the easy ones.

 Q. Keep up the good work.
 SPENCER LEVIN: Thanks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT