RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 22, 2010
Spencer Levin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Great shooting today. Kind of a slow start. Even making the turn, talk about what got it going, birdies at 10, 11 and 12. 
 SPENCER LEVIN: Yeah. I was even at the turn. 
 Yeah, let's see. I was 1-over early, and then I made a birdie on the par-3, and just kind of cruising along. And then 9 was one of the few easy holes out here, and I missed my drive and in a bunker and made a par. But then I made a nice putt on the next hole, made a birdie. 
 And then I want to say I hit it close or I knocked it up on the green in two and made a birdie. And then you know, made another nice putt, so I had three in a row. 
 And actually the next hole, par-3, I hit it about three feet and missed that, but then birdied the next one. So I birdied four out of that five on that stretch, could have birdied all five. And the last two holes were big for me. 
 I was 4-under and hit it in the rough on 17 and made a birdie out of the rough, which is unusual out here. And then on 18 I hit it in the rough and made a par, so actually chipped in for par on the last hole, so playing those last two holes 1-under really helped my score today.

 Q. A lot of guys at 5, got one at 6 right now, and everybody we've talked to kind of surprised that the scores are this low. Everybody felt with the rough and the way the greens are, the undulations, maybe 1 or 2-under might be a good score for a round. Your thoughts on how this course played?
 SPENCER LEVIN: Yeah. I think 1 or 2-under is a good score for around here. 5-under is a really good score for me. 
 The course played good. It's a really fair golf course. It's kind of how you play is what you shoot, and you know, it's a great, great venue, and it's a great tournament.

 Q. What were your thoughts coming in? What kind of confidence level did you have coming into this Canadian Open?
 SPENCER LEVIN: I've been playing pretty well this year. I've made a lot of cuts. Already made more money this year than I did all last year, so I feel like my game's getting better and starting to feel a little more comfortable. 
 And I usually don't really have certain expectations when I come to play a tournament. I just try and prepare well and play, but I'm happy with my start, and hopefully I can play well tomorrow.

 Q. Good shooting. Good luck tomorrow. 
 SPENCER LEVIN: Thanks, man. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT