THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY MORGAN STANLEY
June 4, 2010
Spencer Levin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Well, pretty good round. You're certainly in the hunt.   
 SPENCER LEVIN: Yeah. I played well today. I made some putts and had a good finish. I bogeyed 18, which wasn't very good, but I birdied the three holes before that.   
 So I'll just try to stay patient. I knew there's probably going to be some delays. And just try to tell myself I can't do anything about it. Yeah, I've been playing pretty well this year. You know, I'm hitting good. Hopefully I keep doing it.   
  
  Q. Another young guy in the hunt. You've got Rickie up there at 13 under. Why is it suiting all you young guys so well?   
 SPENCER LEVIN: I don't know. He's a good player, so he's probably going to play pretty good anywhere.   
 I don't know. I wish I could tell you. You know, playing every week, you just kind of get used to competitive golf and get things going your way, seems like guys can shoot some low scores.   
  
  Q. Young guys traditionally like to be aggressive. This course is kind of allowing you guys to be aggressive, isn't it?   
 SPENCER LEVIN: Yeah. The fairways are pretty generous because they're soft, you know. So if you hit one a little offline, it's not really going to roll through in any trouble.   
 It plays longer. Like people say, oh, this is going to play long, but at the same time, if you have one more club in from the fairway as opposed to bouncing through in the rough, it makes it easier.   
  
  Q. First time playing here. Is this something -- how many courses you come to that this is your first time? This is only your second year on Tour.   
 SPENCER LEVIN: Most of them I played last year. I got in some this year that I didn't play, like Colonial, and this one and a couple more as well.   
 But it's -- you know, you play a practice round, and you kind of get used to it, you know. But all in all, it's just any course -- if you hit good shots, they're good. If you hit bad shots, they're bad. Any course is like that.   
  
  Q. Your thoughts on tomorrow. Going to be an early start, threesomes, and just trying to get past the weather or give you a chance to beat it.   
 SPENCER LEVIN: Yeah. I mean, these guys do a good job. They know what they need to do to get everybody through. You know, that's the way it is. You've got to do it. And that's fine.   
  
  Q. On the eve of this, knowing that it could be a real long day, what's the mindset?   
 SPENCER LEVIN: You know, I don't think it's going to be much different. This is I don't know how many tournaments in a row, eight or nine in a row. Just going to try to do what I always do: Grab a bite and go to bed.   
  
  Q. Your dad played on the PGA Tour, right?   
 SPENCER LEVIN: Yeah.   
  
  Q. Did he give you any advice before you started this one?   
 SPENCER LEVIN: No, nothing different than normal. Just usually just work on my fundamentals and try to get those right. Good play.   
  
  Q. Got a score in mind tomorrow?   
 SPENCER LEVIN: You know, I don't know. Anything, obviously, under par. Probably going to have to shoot low to catch Fowler. No, no score in mind. Hopefully it's a good one.   
  
  Q. Next step for you, you were two shots back, I think, after three rounds earlier this year in contention again. Next step would be build on that?   
 SPENCER LEVIN: Yeah, I've been making a lot of cuts this year. I think I've made, you know, all of them but two. But, yeah, it's just -- I've been playing actually really well this year except for Sunday. I've thrown away a lot of money on Sunday almost every week I've played.   
 I've been right there right around the top 20-ish going into Sunday and just seemed to not play well Sunday. Hopefully, I can play well tomorrow, but it's going to be Sunday for me again that's going to be the key for me.   
  
  Q. Just fooling like the year you're trying to establish yourself, make a name for yourself. Is that kind of what it feels like out here this year?   
 SPENCER LEVIN: A little bit. I've noticed, since I turned pro, I've been progressively getting better every year. Hopefully, that trend happens, obviously, for me.   
 But I'm just -- you know, I've learned -- I feel a little more comfortable on these courses. Last year playing my first time, first year on the tour, you think, okay, this hole's really hard and this and that, even though it's a hard hole.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT