U.S. BANK CHAMPIONSHIP IN MILWAUKEE
July 19, 2009
Spencer Levin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Finished the tournament strong.   
 SPENCER LEVIN: I shot 68. I had looks on every hole and figured if I could just hit the ball, not even as good as yesterday, just almost as good and putt decent, I should shoot a low score. I hit it great. Made a couple good saves. Had a chip-in and the putts started going in, and the score gets low.   
  
  Q. Missed a couple of good saves, where at?   
 SPENCER LEVIN: No. 4, I parred 1 and 2, made about a 12-footer for birdie on 3, hit it in the left bunker on 4 and got up-and-down there. And then it was just kind of cruising along and made a good save on 7 and birdied 9, birdied 10. Then I birdied four of the last five, 7-under.   
  
  Q. Are you going to Canada next?   
 SPENCER LEVIN: Going to Canada tonight. I don't know what's leading but I don't think I'm going to get on an airplane any time soon. I probably won't. There's another guy at 10. You never know. I'll probably stick around and see what happens.   
  
  Q. Can you just talk a little, this is going back a few years, you had such an incredible amateur career and things didn't go crazy for you, you didn't come out here and win everything. Does this putt everything into perspective for you the last couple of years?   
 SPENCER LEVIN: I guess but it was kind of good for me I think. It took me some time to learn some stuff about professional golf and took me a couple years to get some Nationwide status. I'm 25 years old, so I'm still learning right now. I'm happy with the way I got here.   
  
  Q. Did you think you could come over here and be successful immediately?  
 SPENCER LEVIN: Yeah, I think everybody who comes out here thinks like that. Why would you come out here if you don't? I played with a lot of these guys my whole life, a lot of these guys out here are great players and I played junior, amateur golf with them and figured if I can compete with them then, why not compete with them out here.  
  
  Q. What's the biggest difference you've noticed in your time as a professional golfer?   
 SPENCER LEVIN: It's funny you say that, I think it's more of not worrying about the other guys. I think you get caught up in worrying about who is doing what, Vijay or Tiger or Phil is hitting balls, but you can't do anything about that.   
 You can only play your game and your ball, and it's easy to get distracted in that, and I think I've done that before but now I'm trying to just focus on my game, if a guy is going to out-drive me, he's going to out-drive me. Just kind of do my thing and see what happens.   
  
  Q. What did you do this week that you've done better than the previous weeks?   
 SPENCER LEVIN: Birdied four of the last five holes, that helps.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT