WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 23, 2015
Spencer Levin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. I counted 7 fist pumps on that birdie at 18. You were a happy man.
SPENCER LEVIN: Oh, man.

Q. What a great round today solidifying your position in The Playoffs.
SPENCER LEVIN: It was -- it was a dream round today. You know, I was nervous last night thinking about it. I guess it's everybody is going to be, you know, but I slept great which is kind of weird for me but I woke up thins morning, I felt good. 
I felt a little nervous early but I made an eagle early and then just kind of made a couple nice par saves and, you know, got it going on the back, started hitting really good shots. I think I hit it -- I couldn't have hit it better on the back. 
Starting on 11 I hit the pin, next hole I hit it close and missed it. Kept striping it down the middle. Good to have it like today.

Q. How often -- the scoreboards tell you where are you all the time.
SPENCER LEVIN: I didn't look once. I kind of glanced when I saw, I looked away real quick because I didn't want to know about it. I looked last night about where I was which was I thought kind of done because it doesn't -- when I do that it messes me up. Maybe that's my problem, maybe it does help me. Anyway, I tried not to look at them.

Q. You're 112, just to let you know. 122 when the week started. You made the cut line, too. Lot of drama for you this week.
SPENCER LEVIN: I don't really know what the scenarios would have been today if I didn't play well. Probably wouldn't have made it if I didn't play well. Probably not. Probably better chance if I did play well, right?

Q. Give us for the guys going out, the course conditions, course set-up, hole locations, what did you think?
SPENCER LEVIN: Not as much wind. I think the cloud cover kind of softened it up a little bit. The pins are easier. If guys are hitting fairways you'll see good scores for sure. If the wind stays down the pins are significantly easier than yesterday.

Q. Congratulations, you're heading to Barclays. See you next week.
SPENCER LEVIN: Thanks a lot. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT