FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
February 7, 2015
Spencer Levin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  You're bucking the odds.  This golf course reeks of needing to be a bomber to play it well.  Four of the top-5 on the leaderboard are bombers.  And then there's you.  Explain your good play here.  SPENCER LEVIN: I only hit the ball in the high rough once today.  Obviously helps to be long out here, but it's hard for anybody to play from the rough.  I drove the ball great today.  I think I was in the first cut twice and then once in the high rough.  And in the high high rough was on a par-5.  So drove the ball great, for, for me, well for everybody, but for me especially, because I'm hitting a little bit longer clubs than some guys, but all in all I'm striking the ball well, starting to hit it better, hopefully I can just keep playing well tomorrow and try to keep it in front of me and see what happens.   Q.  You put yourself right in there with a chance to win.  Good luck tomorrow.  SPENCER LEVIN: Thank you.   Q.  This is a tough golf course, man, couple under par and you're making a big move on a Saturday.  SPENCER LEVIN: Yeah, it's a hard golf course, it's real fair though.  You're not going to get away with anything.  Sometimes certain courses you might be able to get away with a loose shot but here it's tough, so I played well today, and you kind of got to hit the ball pretty good around here to score, so hopefully I can keep hitting fairways and see what happens.   Q.  The rough is so interesting this week, it's definitely consistent.  If you get a lie, it's a big surprise, where in years past it seems like you always got a decent one.  SPENCER LEVIN: Right, absolutely.  If you get a decent lie, it's lucky here.  Even on the North Course this week it's really tough, rough wise, but it feels like a USGA event almost with the rough, so accuracy is a premium around here and I think the guy who is going to be able to find his ball off the tee is going to have a big advantage tomorrow.   Q.  How are you feeling?  SPENCER LEVIN: It's all good.  Happy to be back.   Q.  70, a very good number.  Are you satisfied with it?  SPENCER LEVIN: Yeah, I'm happy with the way I played.  The golf course is tough.  I played really well on the front.  Hit a couple loose shots on the back but all in all I drove it well and that's kind of the theme around here, you got to kind of -- if you're not driving it well it's going to be tough.  But I hit a lot of fairways today and gave myself a lot of chances to hit greens and make birdies.   Q.  You had a left thumb injury with an exemption and a handful of events to secure your card.  You did that last fall.  Did that free you up mentally?  SPENCER LEVIN: It sure did.  I had to make about an 8-footer in my last tournament in Mexico.  I had enough events to get in, but if I missed that I would have had to wait all winter.  I still had a few events to get it, but I tell you that winter was a lot better not having to worry about it.  That was big.  I enjoyed my off season and I'm enjoying golf again, I'm just happy to be out here.  I obviously want to do well but I'm very thankful to be here and many I'm enjoying playing golf.   Q.  We enjoy watching you because you're not the PGA TOUR robot that we see often out there.  Your mannerisms are interesting, how would you describe yourself as a player before and after impact?  SPENCER LEVIN: I don't know.  I guess it all depends on what kind of shot I hit, I guess.  Before, I don't know, I probably am similar to anybody, just trying to concentrate and hit your shot.  But afterwards, I don't even mean to do what I do, I just I'm competitive and I want to do good, so, I don't know.  I'm glad it's fun to watch.  I don't even know what I'm doing.  So glad people enjoy it.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT