THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE INSURANCE
June 1, 2012
Spencer Levin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Kind of the reverse of yesterday condition‑wise? 
SPENCER LEVIN:   Yeah, exactly.   It was pretty much the total opposite.   Like I was saying to those guys over there, this course, when it's firm and fast, it's hard, but then when it's wet and rainy it's a different kind of hard because the ball goes way shorter, the rough plays thicker, and it's a different type of hard.   So when it's firm and fast it's nice because you've got short irons in, but when it's soft you're hitting 4‑ and 5‑irons in and if you miss the fairway it's pretty penal. 
It was difficult today.   With the rain delay it's kind of tough to come back out in the middle of your round. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
SPENCER LEVIN:   I think it kind of depends, at least for me, on how I'm playing.   It's nice if you come off a good hole or a made putt or something, you're all right, at least for me.   I was 1‑under at the time, had kind of a long putt for birdie, so I was just kind of relaxed.   But if you're not playing well, it's kind of tough because you get kind of antsy.   But yeah, it's the way it is, though.   You get it sometimes.

Q.   Talk about the difference in clubs from yesterday to today. 
SPENCER LEVIN:   Absolutely, yeah, for sure.   I hit on the first two holes, I hit‑‑ first three holes‑‑ first hole, I hit driver, 4‑iron.   Yesterday I think I hit driver, 9‑iron.   Second hole I hit driver, 6‑iron today.   Yesterday, I hit driver, wedge.   Then like 3, I hit a 3‑wood again today and it was like literally 50 yards shorter than it was yesterday. 

Q.   Did they move the tee boxes today? 
SPENCER LEVIN:   Not really at all.   They're all in about the same spot.   Even like 16, the tee is still back.   They moved the tee up a little bit on 12, but it's still a really hard shot.

Q.   When you said yesterday (indiscernible) ‑‑
SPENCER LEVIN:   I don't know, not really.   I hit some fairways.   It was fine.   I know, be careful what you wish for, right?   But no, it was good.   I guess the weather is supposed to be good tomorrow, right? 

Q.   When the course is hard and dry and then all of a sudden overnight it changes, what's the mental challenge? 
SPENCER LEVIN:   It's hard to‑‑ like off the tee it's hard to over‑club, at least for me.   You're more than likely not going to go through the fairways a lot because you're used to laying back on certain holes and then all of a sudden you can hit driver there and it feels weird because you're not used to doing it.   That got me on a couple holes today.   It's more trusting the fact the ball is not going to go as far as you think, especially when it's real wet in the fairways. 

Q.   What do you do to pass the time when there's a delay?
SPENCER LEVIN:   It worked out perfect.   It was weird.   I was on No. 7 there, the house just to the left there, that's where everybody goes.   Like even a couple years ago playing here, I was on the exact same hole.   The people are really nice there, you just hang out in their house and watch TV, it was great.   It worked out perfect.   It's the Weather Channel over and over and over.   Yeah, we know it's raining. 
I remember they did that a couple years ago, they just let everybody come in.   It was pretty cool. 

Q.   Would you rather have gotten what you got this morning rather than teeing off later today?
SPENCER LEVIN:   I think so, yeah.   They're probably not going to get any more delays, right?   But we had about a five‑ or six‑hole stretch there where it was perfect.   There's no wind, everything was soft.   All in all, just five or six holes is huge, so they're going to have wind all day.   The greens are soft. 
I bet you still see some good scores in the afternoon, though, because the fairways will probably dry out a little bit where you don't get mud balls and you'll still be able to stop any club you want, so you'll see some good scores this afternoon for sure. 

Q.   Are you playing the qualifier Monday?
SPENCER LEVIN:   Yeah, I'm doing it here.   I've probably played there about ten times just for fun.   I hope I make it, because absolutely that's one of my favorite courses, too, so hopefully I can get out there.   That would be nice.

Q.   What is it about that place that makes it different?   It's on the side of a hill and everything kind of wraps around it, but what are the challenges?
SPENCER LEVIN:   The thing about it is obviously they'll set it up really hard, but the thing is I think there's one fairway bunker, no water hazards and no out of bounds.   If you think about it, how many courses do you play that are world‑class like that?   That's kind of special in its own right.   Every hole is real honest.   How you play is what you're going to shoot, and that's it.   It's as honest as it gets. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
SPENCER LEVIN:   Not Scioto.   I played the Scarlet in the Nationwide maybe four or five years ago, and I haven't played‑‑ I heard Scioto is awesome.   That's what everybody is saying. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
SPENCER LEVIN:   Absolutely, yeah, because everybody said it's kind of what happens every year.   This is only my third year playing here, but everyone says it happens every year, so you kind of expect it, yeah.

Q.   Of all the things that can affect a golfer, rain, wind, what's the toughest? 
SPENCER LEVIN:   Probably the wind.   Yeah, I mean, especially if it blows really hard because it makes it harder to control your ball.   Heat usually not because the ball is going, but probably wind.

Q.   It's like 20 miles per hour now, but the gusts, how tough is that to deal with?
SPENCER LEVIN:   It's pretty tough, yeah.   You get a pretty good idea of the general direction out there, though.   It doesn't switch on you a whole lot, so you've got a pretty good idea of what it's doing, which helps you. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
SPENCER LEVIN:   That's a good question.   That's a good question, yeah.   I'm not sure‑‑ tomorrow it'll probably be a little softer just because of today.   I don't know about Sunday.   If it stays nice and the wind blows, it might be back to normal by Sunday. 
But I think tomorrow you'll see a little bit of effect of it because like Monday, Tuesday, man, it was unbelievable how firm it was.   But yeah, I mean, like tomorrow if the greens are a little softer and the weather is good, you'll probably see some good scores for sure.

Q.   Tiger said the first six holes at Olympic could be the toughest six holes of championship golf. 
SPENCER LEVIN:   That's exactly what I was going to say, too.

Q.   For those of us who haven't been there, why would you say that would be the case? 
SPENCER LEVIN:   That's crazy because No.1 was basically the only birdie hole on that whole course, and now it makes it the hardest hole.   And it was already the hardest first six anyway.   You make that a par‑4, it's ridiculous.   2 is really hard, 3 is like a 250‑yard par‑3 to a green this big, 4 is like tough uphill dogleg left with everything sloping right, and 5 it's almost impossible to hit the fairway, and then they move the tee back on 6 you're hitting driver, 4‑iron.   You watch next week, the guys who play the first six holes the best are probably going to have a good chance. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
SPENCER LEVIN:   Yeah, pretty much. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
SPENCER LEVIN:   Absolutely.   16, though, I don't even know if Bubba can get there in two.   For most guys it'll probably be driver, wood, and then a mid short iron.   And then 17 if you can hit the fairway, it's good.   That's about it, really.   It's a hell of a course.   It's hard. 

Q.   This time of year I imagine the air is a little heavy. 
SPENCER LEVIN:   Yeah, absolutely.   In San Francisco, I lived there for a few years, and it's weird, it's almost warmer in October and November than it is in the summer.   It's really weird.   It is, though, so it's a trip.   It'll be cold and foggy I'm sure. 

Q.   At what point of life were you guys living there?
SPENCER LEVIN:   I was living with a girl there for about two, three years.

Q.   After you finished school?
SPENCER LEVIN:   Yeah, exactly. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT