MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 8, 2017
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. What was working so well for you out there today?   
RYAN MOORE: It was very similar to yesterday. I shot the ball really nice off the tee, which is so important out here now. I was able to the hit some irons around the hole which gave me some opportunities and made a couple of putts when I needed to, a couple of breaks, par savers in there, and a couple of nice birdies.   
   
 Q. With the conditions being better today, did you feel like you had to go out and be more aggressive than the last two days?   
RYAN MOORE: No, not necessarily. I paid attention to the scoring early and no one was going too crazy, and no one was going out there shooting 6, 7‑under. This place has a lot of ways to defend itself. And pins were pretty tough today. The greens were definitely a little firmer and bouncing a little bit more. It was tough to get really reasonable birdie chances out there. So I was fortunate I took care of the ones that I had. And didn't make too many mistakes.   
   
 Q. Going into tomorrow. Some of the guys that are at the top of the leaderboard, and you're under the radar a little bit, does that help going into tomorrow?   
RYAN MOORE: It can't hurt. I like to just kind of pace myself and do my thing. It's never a bad thing to be under the radar. But I've got to go out and play good golf tomorrow, that's all that matters in the end and see if I can end up on top.   
   
 Q. On the golf course you don't seem to get too high or too low, is that also a big deal in a major championship when you're trying to win one for the first time?   
RYAN MOORE: I think so. That's just what works for me. I'm really not an emotional up and down person in general. I learned at a young age that does not work on the golf course for me. So just playing calm and no matter what, you know, I like people to watch me, and not necessarily know where my shot went based on my reaction to it. Hit the shot, move forward and go move to the next one. That's my approach I take to everything and it certainly doesn't hurt on a Sunday out here.   
   
 Q. Trying to win your first major, what will you draw on tomorrow from your past experience victories that might help you?   
RYAN MOORE: I think you take a little bit of all of those things, past victories or past Masters. Playing in the Ryder Cup last year under a lot of pressure. And you take little pieces of all those things and kind of carry them with you and just hope something along the line helps and makes a difference.   
   
 Q. You said it was really hard to make birdies out there, but you got on quite a streak there in the middle of your round?   
RYAN MOORE: Yeah, I got making‑‑ made a few birdies there on the back nine. And was able to kind of move in a good position. But, yeah, it was tough. It was just tough to get at a lot of the pins. It's hard when you have a 9‑iron in your hand to be happy hitting it to 20 or 25 feet. But there was plenty of those today, which is what I had to do. I can't hit it straight up in the air, so I've got to take a 20‑footer and be happy with it. If you get cute with it, it can lead to that bogey or worse every single time.   
   
 Q. Can you talk about No. 11? That's been one of the toughest holes this week for most of the guys, it seems like?   
RYAN MOORE: Yeah, it's the hardest hole on the planet.   
   
 Q. What did you hit in?   
RYAN MOORE: I hit a 7‑iron today. I got the best drive that I've ever hit. On that one my caddie jokingly said, "I" don't have numbers from here, actually. I don't know what this is." I must have hit it good. But, yeah, that pin was pretty accessible today. It's still a scary shot having a 7‑iron rather than having a 4 hybrid like I had frequently into that hole.   
   
 Q. Adam Scott said he would take a 65 or 66 tomorrow. Do you have a number in your head?   
RYAN MOORE: I don't really like to enter rounds with an idea or a number. You know, so many things can happen throughout a day. And the course can be so volatile. You can go up and down and three or four spots the right direction or the wrong direction very quickly on the back nine. And watching it throughout history, what you want to do is be within a couple of shots on the back nine. That gives you a chance. You can make some birdies and make some moves. And other guys can make mistakes. Just trying to hang around, play a good, solid front nine and see what happens the back nine.   
   
 Q. Talking about staying even keel, do you get nervous in your situation? It doesn't look like it?   
RYAN MOORE: Actually I really wasn't that nervous today. I was kind of surprised. I was a little nervous on the second shot on 18. I had such a good round at that point, and you want to finish it off strong. You don't‑‑ plenty of bad places you can hit that shot and make bogeys. A little nervous there, but, no, I've been pretty calm all week, for one reason or another, and hopefully that's the same thing tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT