DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
August 31, 2012
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  RYAN MOORE:   Yeah, it was a nice way to start the tournament.   I really did a little bit of everything good today.   I drove the ball well, I hit some good irons in there, and I was able to capitalize most of the time to have a good birdie chance.  
   
 Q.   You and Seung‑Yul Noh both played very well.   Did you kind of draft off each other?  
RYAN MOORE:   To be honest I wasn't paying much attention.   I'm kind of dealing with what I'm dealing with, and I knew he had a pretty good round there going.   Yeah, it's always nice to be playing next to another guy making putts, and you're seeing them go in, kind of makes that hole a little bigger sometimes.  
   
 Q.   Beautiful opening nine for you, too.   
RYAN MOORE:   Yeah, it was nice to start out with six birdies on that front nine and just kind of get rolling.   Had a little hiccup there on 11, but honestly, out of the putts that I missed today, I hit them really good.   So I mean, that's encouraging to me, that I did miss a couple that were definitely makeable, but I was hitting them right where I wanted to.   Just got to keep that going.   
   
 Q.   11 is a pretty tough hole, isn't it?  
RYAN MOORE:   Yeah, it's definitely tough, and to that front right pin anyway.   I actually hit what I thought was a pretty good shot, just got held up by the wind a little bit.   Hit a good bunker shot and honestly hit a putt that I could probably hit it there 10 times in a row and thought it would have gone in.   I just hit it maybe just a smidge too firm and caught the edge and missed it.   All in all, it really wasn't a bad hole, I just ended up with the wrong score at the end.  
   
 Q.   Talk about the putt on 18.   
RYAN MOORE:   It was a great putt.   I kind of had it splitting the edge.   I thought the first half it would go low left and stay pretty straight.   It never even moved an inch.   I just ended up‑‑ if it was perfect cup speed, it probably would have gone in, but I hit it good speed and it caught that edge.  
   
 Q.   After the front nine were you thinking I have a chance to shoot 61 like you did earlier this year?  
RYAN MOORE:   No, no, I was thinking I like how I'm playing, let's just keep hitting good shots and keep giving myself opportunities.   Obviously I was making my putts when I had good chances, and that's what I was trying to continue doing is just give myself reasonable birdie chances so I could rack up a few more.  
   
 Q.   You've done well in Hartford, in New England.   How have you done in this tournament?  
RYAN MOORE:   I've had some good rounds here.   Never really put together like a high finish.   I finished, I think, in the top 10 a couple times and just outside of that maybe a couple other times.   I've had some good, solid tournaments here but never put together a full week of playing great.  
   
 Q.   Do you think this is the week?  
RYAN MOORE:   It certainly would be nice.   We'll see.   I like how I'm playing, I like that I was out there just playing golf.   I wasn't tinkering, I wasn't trying to do this or that with my golf swing.   You know what, this time of year you should be able to still play and just get whatever you can out of it, and that's what I did today.  
   
 Q.   Overall the best part of your game today?  
RYAN MOORE:   Definitely the putting.   That's been a struggle for me.   Actually I had my younger brother come out this week, who caddied for me most of the last few years and always helped me with my putting, so I had him come out, and we just worked on some real basic stuff, just get the alignment squared away and just kind of let me stroke it, and once again, just kind of get it out of my head and not be thinking about it, just know that my lines are good and be able to hit the putts.   That was nice.   It was nice hitting some good, solid putts, and even some of the ones I missed, I hit them right where I was trying to.   In the end I'm not that disappointed.   I've just got to read them a little better, I guess.  
   
 Q.   What's your brother's first name?  
RYAN MOORE:   Jason.  
   
 Q.   He didn't caddie for you today, did he?  
RYAN MOORE:   No, no, he hasn't been caddying for me this year.   He's always helped me square away my putting when I was struggling, and he's fun hanging out with, too.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT