THE BARCLAYS
August 25, 2012
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   1‑under par 70, third round, are you surprised you're tied for six after three rounds?
RYAN   MOORE:     No, I saw how firm it got yesterday afternoon and I knew it was only going to get worse today.   The greens, I mean, there's two or three of them that were barely even alive at this point, both No.2 and No. 8.   Honestly I would say the greens overall rolled about three or four feet faster than they have the last two days and that's a big adjustment to make. 
On a hole like 17 for example, you barely even hold the green, I would guess maybe ten percent of the field actually hit it on that green today and that would be the majority, first thing in the morning. 
So you know, the course, it's a tough golf course, as is, and then you get tough conditions on top of it; I was happy, anything at par or under. 

Q.   After a bit of a rough start, you kind of rebounded on the back nine with quite a few birdies?
RYAN   MOORE:     Yeah, I definitely didn't start out how I was hoping to.   Just kind of wasn't making anything early, and you know, just rolled in a nice birdie putt there on 10.   That just kind of opened the hole up for me.   He rolled in another good one on 13 and hit it close on 14, and then made a nice bonus 40‑‑footer or so on 15 up that slope. 
So overall, putting felt pretty solid there on the back nine and just want to keep that going into tomorrow. 

Q.   Was it over‑the‑top conditionS or right on the edge? 
RYAN   MOORE:     I mean, it's teetering, that's for sure.   The course definitely got a way from them today.   I think maybe more than they anticipated.   I don't know if it was a little bit of breeze or what.   It was borderline yesterday afternoon.   I played in the afternoon yesterday and they were getting, you know, crusty in spots.   So you know, hopefully they put a little water on it tonight and make it play a little more reasonable.   But I think they said not one person has birdied 17 today and we are hitting 6‑irons and 7‑irons in there.   That shows you how firm and how a little, you know‑‑ that's a little beyond reasonable there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT