WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 4, 2012
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Ryan, 2‑under 70 today after your 7‑under the day before.   What was different between today and yesterday? 
RYAN MOORE:   Well, today I got a penalty stroke for absolutely no reason, so that was unfortunate in the middle of the round there.   But I was able to make another birdie or two after that.   It was just a solid day.   This is not an easy golf course, and just didn't quite hit it as close and didn't make as many putts.

Q.   How were the conditions compared to yesterday?
RYAN MOORE:   Virtually the exact same.   The pins might be a little bit tougher today than we were yesterday, but it's about the same.   Not much wind, still not playing too firm and fast.

Q.   How are the greens?   You made a couple nice saves for par. 
RYAN MOORE:   Yeah, they're rolling nice.   I'd say they're a little quicker today, if anything.   That was‑‑ a few tricky spots. 

Q.   What was the penalty?
RYAN MOORE:   I went to address my little ten‑inch tap‑in and set into it and set my putter down behind it, took my stroke back and the ball just settled a little bit.   I thought that was the whole point of the ruling change from last year that Webb had incurred.   But it turns out that the ruling didn't really change anything.   It's still a penalty even though I had nothing to do with my ball settling into a lower spot. 

Q.   How high is the frustration level? 
RYAN MOORE:   You know, I'm happy with my round.   I'm happy with how I played.   Obviously I played one shot better than I scored at the end of the day, so that's a little frustrating.   But I hit the ball well again today, putted it really solid, and I'm really looking forward to the weekend. 

Q.   Does something like that take a hole or two to get out of your mind, or does it stay with you throughout the rest of the day? 
RYAN MOORE:   No, I mean, for me there's absolutely nothing you can do about it until the round is over.   I just got my head right back in it, hit a good one the next hole, hit a good second shot right up in there and made a birdie, so that was a nice way to bounce back.   Had a good, solid finish to the day. 

Q.   2‑under par‑70, comment on your day? 
RYAN MOORE:   Yeah, it was a good, solid day.   It started out with just steady golf, hitting a lot of fairways and greens, didn't make quite as many putts today, but still just had a really good, solid round.   I was happy with every part of my game, and I'm looking forward to the weekend. 

Q.   Talk a little bit about the penalty and what went down there. 
RYAN MOORE:   I addressed it and set into a ten‑inch putt.   The ball moved, and not because of me setting into it.   My putter face was about ten inches away from it.   But because I had addressed the ball, it somehow was a penalty on me.   I thought that was the whole point of the rule change after Webb Simpson's incident last year I thought was to alleviate that because I certainly had‑‑ did not make the ball move, and I thought that was the whole point of the rule change. 
It's unfortunate that they somehow changed the rules without really changing it.   I don't know how they did that.   But yeah, at the end of the day, it's a little frustrating, ending up one shot worse than I really played.   But I'm still really happy with how I'm playing and looking forward to the weekend.

Q.   To be in the mix again at this point, to be able to go after it this week, talk about that. 
RYAN MOORE:   It's great.   I really like the position I'm in.   I can't imagine that it's going to be more than like 12, 13 if somebody goes really low this afternoon.   I'm right there in the mix and I've proven I can shoot some good scores out here, and just need to go a couple more this weekend.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT