WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 3, 2012
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JOEL SCHUCHMANN:   Ryan Moore, thanks for joining us, great finish to a great round today, 65.   Maybe a few opening comments about a good day for you here at the Wells Fargo Championship.   
RYAN MOORE:   Yeah, it was really a good, solid round all day long.   I just had a great finish.   I hit it where I was trying to hit it all day long and made some good putts early in the round and made some great par savers on my first nine to kind of keep my momentum going.   I played solid right into my back side and just had a great finish.   
   
 Q.   The golf course is giving up a lot of pretty low scores.   Is it as soft as you remember it?  
RYAN MOORE:   Yeah, it just wasn't too windy.   It was windy enough, you had to play for it most of the way around, but it wasn't a significant wind, you know, enough to make the ball be doing crazy things or curving too much.   
Yeah, I mean, and the greens were getting pretty baked out.   Yesterday afternoon I played in the pro‑am and they were to the point they definitely needed to put some water on them, especially with the heat possibility today.   I think they did that and that just kind of‑‑‑‑ without the wind just made it scorable.   This by no means is an easy golf course or a course you're going to see 20‑under win on.   But it was out there today.   
   
 Q.   You finished on the front nine?  
RYAN MOORE:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   So 9 was a bonus?   
RYAN MOORE:   Yeah, I hit a really good drive there up the left center, had a 7‑iron in to about 18 feet or so.   I had an 18‑footer that I was going to hit but like a four‑footer with about a foot and a half of break to it.   I just kind of trickled it down there, and that was a very nice bonus.  
   
 Q.   Did this come as a surprise to you or do you feel like it's been building?   
RYAN MOORE:   No, I finished tied for 4th at Bay Hill.   Hitting the ball really well, just didn't make many putts.   I finish tied for eighth a couple weeks ago in San Antonio, once again hitting the ball really good, not making much.   I've been just kind of waiting for one of these rounds where I kind of get my putter rolling early in the round and just am able to keep it rolling.   
   
 Q.   Is there something you switched up or‑‑  
RYAN MOORE:   No, not really, just went back to the putter I used almost the whole year last year, took some time just looking at my stats and realized, huh, I didn't play as well as I would have liked to last year but it wasn't my putter's fault after looking at it closely, so I just went back to the putter I used.   
But no, started out making some putts early in the round and was just able to keep it going.   
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:   Ryan Moore, thank you.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT