WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 5, 2011
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You had a run of three bogeys out there and then came back with three straight birdies. Talk about the round as a whole.   
 RYAN MOORE: You know, it was a pretty solid round to begin with. Early on, my front side and was kind of cruising, kind of like I had played yesterday. I played really solid all day yesterday, didn't make too many mistakes. I kind of started out that same way today.   
 I made a bogey on 7 and then knocked it right in there to about four and a half feet on 8 from about 225, a great shot in there, and then ended up three-putted that one, instead of getting that shot back, throw another one away.   
 And then bogeyed 9, three-putt just off the front edge of the green, not technically a three-putt but still a three-putt in my mind. I was kind of cruising. I was playing a little solid, and I think that was a little slap in the face to kind of make me focus a little more and really grind it out on the back nine, and I did, and I started out three birdies back there and a really good par save on 13 and two really good birdies after that. So just kind of got cruising.   
 Really could have been a lot lower because I missed about a six-footer on 17 for birdie, maybe the easiest putt I had all day, and just missed it, and then had a great looking putt from about 12 feet on 18 that just missed.   
 It was really good, solid golf on the back side, and looking forward to the weekend.   
  
  Q. What was the best on the back? Was it your driving or what part of your game?  
 RYAN MOORE: Definitely the putting. I think I one-putted the first six holes on the back side. I made a 10-footer, then about a 15-footer, then about a 22- to 25-footer, then a 10-footer, then about another 30-footer, then about a six-footer, all in a row, and then actually got up-and-down on the par-5. Was that 15? No, 16. So I had however many holes in a row that was of one-putts. So that definitely carried me through there.  
  
  Q. Something about the greens that you just were dialed in?   
 RYAN MOORE: No, I don't know. I was just comfortable. For some reason or another, I changed putters this week, back to something that's a little more traditional for me length-wise, and I just feel pretty comfortable over it, standing over it right now. I think my alignment is pretty good, and these greens are rolling really good. If you get in the right spots and put them on the right lines, they're going to go in, and I was fortunately able to do that on the back side.  
  
  Q. Different brand of putter?  
 RYAN MOORE: No, same brand, just a little bit longer, little different shaft in it. But I've had it for a while, and every time I go home it looks good. And I've wanted it throw it in the bag, and I finally went ahead and did it this week, and it's working.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 RYAN MOORE: Maybe a little bit towards my last three or four holes, but not much. The greens are still very receptive. You can still stop 5-irons into them. You know, we'll see.   
  
  Q. There's still a lot of golf to go, but being this close to the top, how does it feel?  
 RYAN MOORE: It feels good. This is where you want to be obviously going into the weekend. It's hard to say what Jason might go shoot 7- or 8-under again today. He's certainly capable of it, got the game for it.   
 But I'm right in the mix, I'm right up there where I want to be and need to be, and really for me it was -- I played two really solid rounds in a row, and I like that. You know, it's nice to get out and shoot a 7-, 8-under. But at the same time, just shooting a couple solid 4-under rounds of golf where I kind of fought through a little early frustration today and still hung in there and had a good back side. And yesterday was just a good, solid all-around day. Kind of doing it two different ways but two really good solid rounds of golf are a really good way to start off a tournament.  
  
  Q. Sounds like the putter was almost like you were eyeing an old girlfriend.   
 RYAN MOORE: Something like that, yeah. I've never used it, honestly. I had never used this putter, no. I've used the same head for a really long time as this. This is a black head version instead of just a stainless head, but it's just a little bit longer, I think it makes my posture a little bit better and makes me a little more comfortable over it.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT