TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 25, 2011
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. It's nice to finish up with a birdie, I guess.  
 RYAN MOORE: Always. That's always the goal. It's the best way to go out for the day and be leaving the golf course before 8:30. That's another nice thing about today, not sitting in the clubhouse for seven hours. Today was great.   
 Played 11 holes this morning, and -- I think 11 holes this morning and another 18. But yeah, overall, good day.  
  
  Q. Conditions of the course, it's there for the taking more or less?  
 RYAN MOORE: Yeah, it really has been. There hasn't been too much wind, and you know, the greens are that perfect putting speed where you can be a little bit aggressive. They're not too out of control fast, so you can kind of give putts a chance and not have to worry about having a five to eight-footer coming back. So you know, I think that's a big part of it. So you can kind of throw some darts in there and you can be aggressive with some putts, and that always adds up to better scoring.  
  
  Q. You always seem to be in pretty good contention here the past couple years. What is it about this place?  
 RYAN MOORE: I have no idea. I really don't. I think it's just a good, firm, straightforward golf course. I enjoy it. I've enjoyed it ever since the first time I played it. I keep coming back every year, and I think I will keep coming back every year.   
 For some reason or another, you know, it reminds me a lot of like a Northwest course, which is where I'm from. You know, the greens and just the way it all plays, you know, it's a lot like home for me and I don't get too many of those throughout the year, so maybe that's some of it. I'm not sure.  
  
  Q. Maybe cliche, but the rain maybe helped, too?  
 RYAN MOORE: Yeah, the rain. I'm obviously used to that after 20-plus years of living in Seattle.  
  
  Q. You finished up pretty well here, too. How does that carry into tomorrow?  
 RYAN MOORE: It's nice. I don't know how close I'll be at the end of the day, but you know, someone's definitely going to push 14, 15, 16, maybe even 17. You never know.  
 You know, I'm happy with the way I played. Obviously my middle round I didn't get much out of. The first and the third were pretty good. And no matter what, the way it's been playing I'm going to have to go out and shoot a good score tomorrow to have a chance. But that's all I want. I want to get myself close so that I can go shoot a good enough score to possibly win.   
  
  Q. Probably seems like a week ago at this point, but you played your Pro Am round with Jim Calhoun?  
 RYAN MOORE: I did, yeah.  
  
  Q. How was that?  
 RYAN MOORE: That was great. He was a great guy. I really, really enjoyed it. I played with him and Michael Bolton, actually which were both really, really fun to play with. So yeah, he was -- he has some game. He's good around the greens. So he was a fun Pro Am partner.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT