BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 9, 2010
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   NELSON SILVERIO: We welcome Ryan Moore to the interview room here at the BMW Championship. Ryan, thanks for spending a few minutes with us. It's your fifth start here at BMW. You have set the back nine scoring record with a 29. Just get us started with some thoughts on the round and the state of your game right now. 
 RYAN MOORE: Well, you know, it was one of those days I certainly wasn't expecting to do that. It started out -- actually played pretty good on the front and just didn't really get much out of the round. I hit a -- didn't play 10 very well, hit a horrible tee shot on 11 with an even worse lay-up, and then I hit a terrible shot from there into a bunker and then holed out, out of the bunker, and I don't know, just got a little positive momentum going from there and was able to hit some good iron shots and make a lot of putts from that point in. 

 Q. What was the ruling you were seeking on the 18th green? 
 RYAN MOORE: I was asking the rules official if he would just give that putt to me, and he didn't, which was weird. I was a little disappointed. (Laughter.)
 No, it was a questionable pitch mark. I just wanted to make sure. It was a little bigger than a normal pitch mark would have been. But I just called him in just to make sure I wasn't fixing something I shouldn't have been, and he agreed it was a pitch mark.

 Q. When did you hole your bunker shot?
 RYAN MOORE: On 11, just the front of the green there. 

 Q. I'm looking down the points list here, and you're sort of a bubble guy. I can't remember if you've made it all the way to Atlanta since they've started this thing in the past. I know you've made it here. 
 RYAN MOORE: No, never, ever made it to Atlanta. You know, really at this point not really planning on it. In my mind this is my last tournament of the year and I'm just playing hard. I'm just going to see what I can do. Obviously I have to do exactly what I am doing just to have a chance. That's kind of my mindset is I'm here to play hard and try and win a golf tournament, and wherever it falls from there, I mean, that's out of my control. 

 Q. You're not going to play Vegas?
 RYAN MOORE: Well, there's a good chance I'll pop back up in Vegas. I'm just saying that's my mindset, that's all. 

 Q. As you go along on this birdie binge on the back nine, do you have a feeling it's going to continue and go and go and go or is it more like the front side where something else might happen?
 RYAN MOORE: I had no idea. I wasn't paying attention at all to be honest. I played with Marc Leishman today who's a great guy. I played with him last week, too. Just having fun, chatting it up walking down the fairways. Made a couple birdies there in a row early on 11 and 12 and then kind of had a couple pars. I don't know. I don't know what I did. I had two pars then. Oh, the 10th hole, yeah, I had that one par. There was a little lull in that nine. 
 But yeah, just hit a good shot into the par-3 and made birdie, hit a good shot into the par-5 -- actually hit a huge drive there on the par-5. I had about 5-iron in, so that made it nice. And then just hit three really good iron shots after that. They weren't gimme putts, but they were five- to ten-footers, each one of them, and they were just very straightforward putts. Some days you get putts that are easy to read from ten feet and some days you get five-footers that have three breaks in them somehow. It's weird. But I just kind of had really straightforward putts. 

 Q. Just elaborate on the mindset thing. Are you just green-light flag hunting? Is there any difference there? Kamikaze style, or you're just sort of --
 RYAN MOORE: No, it's more the thought of I actually get a break after this. It's more that mindset. It's a long year, and you play a lot of golf. This is my sixth week in a row. So the thought to me in my mind that I'm kind of done after this is just kind of a relief, and just let me relax and just go play. Just kind of in my head, this is it, and just play hard. That's what I'm trying to achieve. 
 It seemed to work pretty well today. We'll see if I can keep it up.

 Q. You know you're off next week regardless, right?
 RYAN MOORE: Yeah, but that's one week. That doesn't even count. I don't count that one. 

 Q. Would you mind going through the irons you hit on the birdies on the back starting with 12? 
 RYAN MOORE: Yeah, 12 was a 3-iron, playing about 225 or 227, something like that, today. I hit a really good shot in there and just fed up over the slope to about five feet. 
 Then the next one, the next par-3, I hit a 4-iron in there and made about a 20-footer. It was perfectly pin high just right of the pin.
 Then I hit a 5-iron into that par-5, the second shot, from about 200, and was just left of the green there and almost just chipped it in. Both Marc and I were very perplexed because he was standing next to the hole and the ball was in slow motion coming on the high side breaking into the hole, barely moving and touched the hole all the way around it, over to the right side. No idea how it didn't go in. So a little tap-in there.
 Then 16 was an 8-iron from about 157. 
 17 was a 9-iron from about 145.
 And 18 was a 7-iron from 182, I believe. 

 Q. You just did that for us. It was actually a 34-degree --
 RYAN MOORE: Well, yeah. Well, what is my 7? 36 -- no, 34. I don't know, now I'm confused. I don't remember what they are. 

 Q. The putts on 16 and 18 were in between five and ten feet. Can you run through what they were? 
 RYAN MOORE: 16 was about a six-footer I would say.
 17 was about eight feet.
 And then 18 I saw it was 11 feet I think it said on the screen.

 Q. Just for the record not to make fun of you here, but how did you make par at 15?
 RYAN MOORE: I don't know. It was just a terrible hole apparently. I actually hit a good drive there, hit it right down the middle of the fairway and bounced almost into the right bunker, which I have no idea how that happened. And I hit an 8-iron in to about 30 feet, kind of a little long, left of the pin, and I actually had a really difficult two-putt. I was very happy to two-putt that one there. There was a big ridge left of the pin today, and if you're left of it, it's not a good spot to be.

 Q. Do you like the way the points system is now, the whole season and then this stretch? 
 RYAN MOORE: Yeah, it seems to be working. It seems to be making it interesting, which is, I think, the goal, to make it kind of -- everything on the line almost every week kind of a thing. That's truly what playoffs are in other sports, so making it a little more volatile and you can move around a lot, I think that's great. For someone like me who's played horrible, it's not so great. But I still have a chance. I like that. I still have a chance to get in that last tournament. 

 Q. Are you hearkening back to the Bobby Jones days with the tie, and is that now your lucky tie?
 RYAN MOORE: Yeah, I like this tie. I liked it to start the day. I bought it a couple days ago. I was just -- I don't know, I was just walking around a store and thought, you know, I might wear some ties this week. Just sounded good. I saw the weather was only going to be about 70 to 75 degrees. I can definitely handle a sweater and a tie in those temperatures. It gets much above that, I can't really handle it. 

 Q. Do you have a tie clip to keep it in place or does the sweater do that?
 RYAN MOORE: Just the sweater. The sweater holds it there for me.

 Q. You're obviously -- by dressing that way you're getting noticed. That's probably at least part of the intent. What are some of the funny things you've heard if you can relate a few? I know Feherty has dropped a few over the years on you. 
 RYAN MOORE: He just gets me all the time no matter what I'm wearing or doing. He's one of those people; he can't help it, he's going to get you. You know, I'm surprised that I really don't get that much grief from other guys, other players, anything like that. And everybody in the crowd absolutely loves it; like everywhere I go, anywhere I've worn it, they love it. So I went over to the British Open this year after wearing it at the Masters and playing around the practice rounds, that's all the people could ask me, what my ties were going to be like that week that I was going to wear. 
 It's funny, that was certainly not the purpose at all. I love this look. I love that golf kind of used to have that look, and I like to wear it when I can, when weather permits. That's kind of -- that's just how I like to look. It's not for attention or anything like that. I just think -- I love that part, and I love that's how golf used to be.

 Q. So when you see Rickie Fowler on Sunday, you're thinking -- based on your obviously throwback preference and he's dressed like a traffic cone --
 RYAN MOORE: Rickie is Rickie and he dresses how he should dress, honestly. He's a great guy, and everything he does fits him really, really well. That's not me; this is more me. 

 Q. Will you draw the line at a tweed jacket?
 RYAN MOORE: Depends on how the temperatures get. If it gets cold that would actually be pretty nice. I don't know how they used to wear the jackets in these kind of temperatures. It's amazing. I'm glad we don't have to do it. I'm glad I can at least get some comfortable stuff that works. 

 Q. A follow-up, is your round today just the latest example of a million of you never know when a good round of golf might break out?
 RYAN MOORE: Yeah, it's really funny. I had a really good first round last week and then just struggled, struggled with my putting after that round for really -- we couldn't figure it out, and I just had a good practice session with my caddie, who is my brother, and he just kind of saw a couple little things, and we just kind of tweaked the grip to get my hands relaxing on the putter a bit more and really just kind of rolled the ball today again, which is how I normally like to approach it. I was just definitely getting a little too tense on there. 
 It doesn't surprise me that I played this good of a round. You just never know when you're going to make five birdies in a row. That's just golf, and it's nice it happened at the end of the day so I didn't have to do anything after I did it. Just a great way to finish. 

 Q. Looks like Kuchar is going to be up there with you. It seems like he's been up there pretty much the last six months. I'm just wondering, you see the improvement in that guy's game and the way he's playing and what your thoughts are on the year he's having. 
 RYAN MOORE: He's had a fantastic year. Certainly if not the best, one of the best at this point in time, and he's just playing good golf. He's clearly putting well. He's always been a good putter, and I think his ball-striking, the stuff he's worked on, has really come around to give him enough birdie chances that he's clearly shooting good golf scores all the time now. 
 He's one of those guys, he's a good enough putter, you always have to factor him in. 
 NELSON SILVERIO: Ryan, thank you.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT