DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 3, 2010
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. First of all, is it weird when you get to the first tee and the sun is out and there's no wind and there's a little sheet in the scoring tent that says we're going to play the ball lift, clean and place today?
 RYAN MOORE: Yeah, that was a little different. They're obviously anticipating what might be -- fortunately we haven't gotten anything thus far. It was like the calm before the storm out there. A little overcast, not too hot and really not a breath of wind all day.

 Q. Unfortunately maybe for everybody else playing later this afternoon, but fortunately for you. How many times did you actually reach down the clean the ball and go, I could have pretty much left it where it was?
 RYAN MOORE: Pretty much every single shot. I only missed a couple fairways, and honestly there was never anything. I pretty much picked it up and put it right back down where it was every single time. It didn't really benefit me at all, but I was able to shoot a good round.

 Q. Tell me about your round overall. When did you feel like you were hitting it the way you wanted to be hitting it?
 RYAN MOORE: Really the whole front side I had good chances at birdies the whole way around there on the first nine. I had four feet at the first hole, so that was a nice way to start out. Hit it to about ten feet, the long par-3, on the next hole. So I just hit some good shots. I wasn't making everything but was just giving myself opportunities. 
 That really continued onto the back side. I had maybe one putt outside 25 feet all day long, and I think I hit every green. I just had a bunch of good chances. 
 It's sometimes hard to shoot a bad round when you're looking at 10-, 12-footers all day long.

 Q. Was the golf course pretty firm even this morning?
 RYAN MOORE: Yeah, it's playing great. I really hope that the rain stays reasonable because the weather is going to be great this weekend and the greens are firm, some of the best ones we've played all year. They're just in great shape, and I hope they stay that way.

 Q. The part of your game going into the second round that you're happiest with?
 RYAN MOORE: Well, it was the ball-striking today. I definitely made some good putts, but I'm pretty sure I hit 18 greens. I maybe missed one, and they were all good opportunities. I'm pretty happy with that and just want to keep that going. 

 Q. Yesterday I was walking on the range and I saw Corey Pavin, the U.S. Ryder Cup captain, come up and chat with you. How big of a week is this for you?
 RYAN MOORE: This is an important week. I felt like I've played better golf this year than my statistics have shown, and I've been working on some great things the last few weeks, and I feel like it's kind of starting to come together. It's a big week to kind of go out and kind of show that I can be in the mix. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT