WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 18, 2010
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MARK STEVENS: Okay. I'd like to welcome back our defending champion, Ryan Moore, to the 2010 Wyndham Championship. Ryan, you're 35th in the FedExCup Points this year heading into the playoffs next week. If you kind of talk a little bit about your goals this week and your thoughts on coming back to defend your first Tour title.  
 RYAN MOORE: Yeah. Well, obviously, I'm excited to be back. This is my first time with a chance to defend the title and, you know, really is one of my favorite tournaments of the year. So it's pretty easy to look forward to but I have a little more extra to look forward to this year.  
 And beyond that I'm in a good position right now. Obviously I'd love to move up a little bit going into the playoffs over the next few weeks. This is a great tournament to give me a good boost and kind of get myself in the Top 20 after this week.  
 MARK STEVENS: Okay. Thank you. Questions.  
  
  Q. Compare the golf course the way it played last year. Can you compare it? You probably just seen it today or did you get to play yesterday?  
 RYAN MOORE: Yeah. Just played it today. You know, greens are a little bit slower. I just -- you know, I honestly just think there's nothing you can do this time of year. It's this hot and you just have to keep water on them.   
 We don't want to be putting on dead greens on Sunday so they got to -- you got to just manage it and, you know, we all understand as players that's just how some tournaments are. The weather just kind of dictates it.  
 So they're still rolling very true. If you hit a good putt it's going to go in but they're definitely not quite up to speed. I'm sure they protected them a little extra today, you know, moreso than maybe they will the next few days just because the amount of play they're going to have on them today.  
 Besides that, the rest of the course is in great shape and playing, you know -- if it did rain last night, you didn't even notice on the course. It played nice and firm. The ball was rolling.  
  
  Q. When Goydos had the 59 this year, obviously everybody looked up, the first time since David Duval's 59. That's a great score on any golf course. Appleby shoots 59, 60s seemingly every other week.   
 Is there anyway to explain that and why it's all happening this year or is this the new norm?  
 RYAN MOORE: I want to thank the USGA for changing our grooves. I think it's really helping us all.   
 You know, it's just kind of a perfect storm sometimes where you get the right courses and the right conditions and the right wind and, if that's the case, these guys out here are amazing golfers and there's going to be great golf scores.   
 Some years, you know, weather just doesn't really allow it, whether it can be really windy at tournaments where you could maybe shoot a score like that. Get really dried out and firm and -- it's all kind of dictated on the weather and I just think a few of these events have just seemed to have gotten some great weather and just perfect scoring conditions and guys capitalize on that when that happens.  
 MARK STEVENS: Thanks a lot, Ryan. Good luck this week.  
 RYAN MOORE: All right. Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT