AT&T NATIONAL
July 4, 2010
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   NELSON SILVERIO: Welcome Ryan Moore to the media center here at the AT&T National, 65 on Sunday, put yourself right in contention there. Give us some thoughts on your day.   
 RYAN MOORE: Well, it was just a really solid day. I honestly played exactly like I had played the first three rounds, but I just -- I chipped it terrible the first three rounds. Ended up making quite a few more bogeys.  
 And today I was able to scramble a little bit better, still made a good amount of birdies, and just finished really strong today. I finished really poorly the last couple days, so it was nice to finish that way.   
  
  Q. At what point did you think you had a shot at this?   
 RYAN MOORE: On the 1st hole maybe, yeah, right around there. I felt like -- this golf course is such a good, tough golf course. You just never know. My goal was actually to get to 8 and post 8 and feel like that would be a pretty solid spot to be and kind of see what happens.  
 You know, Justin played really good, solid golf today. He won the golf tournament. I did everything I could to make him think about it, and he played better at the end.   
  
  Q. You one-putt your last eight holes?  
 RYAN MOORE: I did. That's awesome.  
  
  Q. Anything new about your putting, putter, setup, anything like that?  
 RYAN MOORE: Yeah, I actually switched to a new putter this week. I had putted with a center-shafted putter once before. It was actually at the Masters earlier this year, and I actually putted really good, and I'm not sure why I kind of went back away from it. It's not a very natural thing for me to look at.   
 But I went back and looked later, and I led in putting for the week at the Masters, so I was like, well, maybe I should rethink that and try another center-shafted putter. So I grabbed one the other day and it looked great and threw it right in for the pro-am day and rolled it really good. Something about the alignment of it, it's just helping me see my lines a lot better. Once I'm over it, my stroke doesn't really change that much, it's just a matter of me getting lined up correctly, and I felt really comfortable this week on these greens.  
  
  Q. What was the model and where did you get it?  
 RYAN MOORE: It's a Machine putter, the brand Machine. I don't know, it's a center-shafted Machine putter.  
  
  Q. Where did you get it?  
 RYAN MOORE: Where? Just on the putting green the other day. There was a bag of them out there, picked it up, it looked good, and I threw it in. That's how I go.   
  
  Q. How much did you scoreboard watch out there? Were you sort of aware the entire round?   
 RYAN MOORE: Yeah, I was keeping an eye on things. I don't do it necessarily on purpose. I'm not trying to really figure things out, but it's kind of hard to miss. You know, on most of the holes it's just right there in your face. It's almost impossible to not pay attention, so I don't try and do that.   
 You know, I just put a couple good birdies on the board early, had some great opportunities on the front that I just barely missed. You know, it would have been really nice, obviously, looking back at it now, if I could have gotten a couple more on the front and really made got a little bit closer early. But I did everything I could and fought through that back side, and fortunately made a couple birdies at the end so he had to think the last couple holes.   
 You know, at that point in time, I think he was pretty much ready to win it.   
  
  Q. You won at Sedgefield, played well here. Anything about old Donald Ross designs that you like?  
 RYAN MOORE: You know, I have no idea why I play well on his golf courses. You know, they seem to be fairly demanding off the tee, generous but demanding. They're not tiny little fairways, but they're sloped and they kick and bounce and can run through pretty easily. And I think I'm one of the top couple people in all-around driving for the year. So I've been driving the ball really well this year, actually getting a little bit of my distance back, but the accuracy has still been there.  
 I think first and foremost you really have to do that on his golf courses because the greens are so tough. If you're in the rough all day long, you're just hitting it to 30 or 40 feet on the green, and there's no such thing as an easy 30-footer, especially on Donald Ross greens.   
  
  Q. You're a little bit of a historian of the game and sort of pay homage to some of the history of the game, the way you dress and things like that. Thoughts on just an old classic course like this and other classic courses? Do you prefer these sort of setups because you guys don't play them very often?  
 RYAN MOORE: I love them. I wish we could be on one or two more of these a year. I think they're just great golf courses. I love just how the older architecture really built the golf course into the land. They couldn't move dirt that much, so they had to really put the golf course where things should be put. Any more we can move stuff around so much, we can just manipulate it and turn it into whatever we want. I think that's so brilliant about some of these courses, Tillinghast courses and Donald Ross courses, the way the course fits to the property and the land, I just love it personally, and I think they're so much more intelligently designed just because they had to be much more intelligently designed. We can do whatever we want anymore, so we probably don't have to think about it quite as much.   
 But they're just -- him and Tillinghast are probably a couple of my favorites, and they're just demanding golf courses, but they're right there in front of you. They're not tricky or anything like that. They give you a spot to hit it, and if not, you're going to pay the price, and I like that kind of golf.  
  
  Q. Do you know where your passport is, and according to our calculations, you should be playing in the British. What are your feelings about that?   
 RYAN MOORE: Well, let's just say I wasn't planning on playing in the British, so I don't know where my passport is right now, honestly. I think it might be in Phoenix. I'm going to have to go try and find it, although I wasn't planning on going there, but now I think I have to go make a pit stop there on the way home.   
 But yeah, that's a great bonus, to actually play in a good tournament, and I felt like I was right in there to actually get in the British, which just seems to be eluding me. This whole year I just haven't seemed to be able to get in it. So that's a nice little bonus at the end.  
  
  Q. What were your plans if you didn't get in the British, and what's your history playing St. Andrews, not in the British but for fun or anything like that?  
 RYAN MOORE: It's bittersweet for me because I was actually going to take four weeks off and I was really excited about that. But obviously pretty darned happy to be in the British at St. Andrews. You can't get a better spot than that. I was actually exempt for the '05 Open at St. Andrews, but I turned pro before that. I felt that it was kind of my priority to get on the PGA TOUR at that time, and it was hard for me to wait another month and pass up a few good tournaments.   
 I'm really excited to be going there. It's only my second British Open, so I don't have a lot of experience. But I enjoy it. I enjoy it. It's a very different style of golf for sure, but I think it's fun. It's different but fun in its own way.   
 NELSON SILVERIO: Ryan, thanks.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT