AT&T NATIONAL
July 2, 2010
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You kind of finished where you started today, but solid round of golf?  
 RYAN MOORE: Yeah, it was a solid round. Unfortunately I have a pretty bad taste in my mouth right now, but I played some really good golf. Unfortunately I made five bogeys but was still able to get it around even on this golf course, so that's not a bad score.  
  
  Q. 18, you hit a good shot in there to the back edge of the green and got some thick grass right off the edge.   
 RYAN MOORE: Yeah, it was just a scrappy little lie, one of those ones on the downslope right behind the pin, and I couldn't get overaggressive with it, if it pops out -- I played for it to pop out, and it came out soft on me. There's not much you can do sometimes, but I guess I should just hit a better iron shot.   
  
  Q. Just general thoughts on your round.   
 RYAN MOORE: You know, today was a good, solid round. It was breezy again. I thought it might be a little calmer in the morning after having a pretty windy afternoon yesterday, but it's still breezy just like it was yesterday, so it didn't play any easier. I fortunately got away with making quite a few bogeys today, but I made enough birdies to balance it back out. I had it to 5 there a couple holes ago. Not exactly the way I wanted to finish. But on this course anything under par on the weekend I think you're looking all right.   
  
  Q. Is the course tougher than anybody thought it was going to be?  
 RYAN MOORE: No, I think it's playing exactly how I thought it would. It's the kind of course that if you hit good golf shots, you get rewarded and you can make birdies. But at the same time if you miss it in the wrong spot, you can get some pretty nasty lies around the fairways or the greens. You have to have mindful and you've got to hit good shots all the way around.  
  
  Q. Do you feel like it's getting tougher, getting firmer?  
 RYAN MOORE: You know, it might. It played pretty soft and firm yesterday afternoon. I thought it played pretty similar this morning. It wasn't that much softer early in the morning.   
 It's certainly not getting any easier.  
  
  Q. Do you think there's a low number out there?  
 RYAN MOORE: These guys amaze me every single week. No matter how hard they make the course, somebody shoots a number; that's how tournaments are. I'm not going to say it's impossible. I'd say there could be a 4 or 5, maybe 6 if somebody really gets going out there. But there's enough trouble and everything has to be working to shoot a number out here.  
  
  Q. Is this course major-worthy?  
 RYAN MOORE: You know, it's certainly that type of golf course, which I enjoy, but it's a very fair type of golf. The fairways aren't too incredibly narrow for as firm as they are, and the greens are generous in size but you've got to put it in the right spot. I think it's a very good, very fair test of golf.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT