THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 6, 2010
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. 5-under par out there. You've got to be really happy with that. Tell me about the birdie at 17. 
 RYAN MOORE: Yeah, any time you birdie that, you're going to obviously be happy. I think that's maybe my second one ever in three or four events here. You know, I just hit a nice little carve pitching wedge in there, playing about 125 or so, and hit right behind it and I came right behind it and actually made a good 12-footer or so that I had to play about two feet outside. Those are always nice putts to see those go in.

 Q. Even at 125 yards, when you get to that 17th, no matter what yardage the caddie gives you, you still look around and say I've got butterflies?
 RYAN MOORE: It's weird. Even walking over there, you're like, come on, is this a pitching wedge or sand wedge today. You know, the hole just has that power. If you hit a good shot and make a good putt, it's always nice.

 Q. Tell me about the rest of the round. 
 RYAN MOORE: I couldn't really get anything going early. I made a bogey on the 4th hole. I was 1-over par the whole front until I finally stuffed one on 9 in the can't-miss range around six inches. So that kind of started my momentum. Made a great birdie on 10, almost birdied 11, birdied 12 and 13, just good momentum from there and finished out strong.

 Q. What was it? Was it the shot that you hit in on 9 or the fact that you made birdie on 9 that gave you the confidence, well, I'm okay, I'm all right?
 RYAN MOORE: Well, a little bit of both. I've been struggling with my lob wedge and sand wedge. I haven't been hitting them very close, which just kills you for scoring, especially on a golf course like this. I had a perfect 107 yards, which is my perfect 55-degree sand wedge, and I finally stuffed one in there that kind of made me feel good about it, and it actually made me feel good. Every time I had a lob wedge or sand wedge the rest of the day, I felt great, and consequently I hit some really good shots. So that was nice.
 It is a nice feeling. I haven't liked them for quite a while now. So make a few birdies with them, they're back on my good side. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT