WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 8, 2009
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Two shots short but you have to be pretty happy with your first trip to China and your performance in this event?  
 RYAN MOORE: Yeah, it's just been a fun week overall for me. And it was really just kind of a bonus for me to get into this tournament.   
 Fortunately I had played a couple of events, two out of the three weeks prior to coming here, and I played well and kind of built up a little confidence. You know, I was actually -- I went from, you know, obviously happy I was in it to not really feeling like I could compete, to playing well and actually feeling very confident and excited to come over here. Fortunately that carried over into some good play. It doesn't always, but this week it did.   
  
  Q. How about just during the round out there, were you keeping a close eye on how things were going or just trying to focus on getting as many birdies to fall as you could.   
 RYAN MOORE: When I'm out there, I'm just trying to focus as much as I can. But obviously with Tiger and Phil being the two guys behind you, there's going to be a lot of noise and you're going to kind of already know what's happening. And as many boards as there are out there, it's kind of hard not to notice. But yeah, I was just really trying to keep my head down as much as possible and know that I had to shoot a good score.   
 I saw that Ernie had got out to a really good start. When someone like him goes out to a good start, there's no saying what he can shoot. So obviously he played really well today.   
 Yeah, I was just trying to do what I could and unfortunately ended up falling a shot or two short there at the end but hit a heck of a put on 18, actually. I really can't believe it didn't go in. I really thought it made it. So, hey, I birdied 17, and gave myself a chance. That's my goal going into every tournament is even just going into the weekend, just to have a chance to be in the mix of things, and I did that this week. So that was -- I met my goal I guess, except for the whole winning part of it.   
  
  Q. Just before you head off, is there just an overall impression of this event and playing in China?   
 RYAN MOORE: Oh, this was an amazing event. I really, really enjoyed it. I would come back any time to this event. Obviously hope I play my way into it every single year, because I love the course, the resort, the greens are great, and it's worth the long trip, that's for sure.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT