WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 6, 2009
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Good finish last couple of holes and good position heading into tomorrow. Talk about what went right for you out there today?   
 RYAN MOORE: It was one of those kind of weird round where I didn't really make birdies where I felt like I should make birdies. I threw in an eagle on 18, had a really good second shot in there. I had about eight feet for eagle and was able to make that one making the turn. Hit a bunch of good shots on my next nine but couldn't capitalise on the putts.   
 Finally I stumbled and made a bogey on the first par 3 back there. But then the next par 3, I think one of the harder holes on the course, I kind of hit it off the right edge of the green and just made a long, looping -- I had to aim it 15 feet right of the hole and made it, one of those kind of putts.   
 And then the same thing on 18. I hit a real good second shot in but just caught the ridge and rolled off down in the worst place I could have possibly hit it, and I chipped it in.   
  
  Q. How far out was the chip?   
 RYAN MOORE: It was probably about a 50- or 60-foot chip, just down in the bottom of the swale and kind of going up and over and back down and just trickled right in.   
  
  Q. Makes dinner taste better?   
 RYAN MOORE: It does. It was one of those I was happy to walk away with par, and obviously to have birdie that was nice.   
  
  Q. What expectations did you have for today, did you have a number in mind or a place you wanted to get to?   
 RYAN MOORE: No, I never like to set a number. Golf is so different day-to-day, I'm just going out there trying to do my best every day and shoot the best possible score that I can.   
 So you know, for me, I just wanted to keep playing steady golf, which is what I've done the last two weeks at home on the PGA TOUR, and then kind of coming in here, I just kind of want to keep doing that same thing, just hitting good, solid shots and giving myself chances. That's what I keep doing.   
  
  Q. And your first time here at this event, so you must feel like you're in pretty good shape?  
 RYAN MOORE: Yeah, I really like the golf course to be honest. The greens are just phenomenal. I think these are certainly one of the best, if not the best greens, I think I've putted on all year. These are just fantastic.   
 I'm just enjoying it. I'm having a great time and it's a fun tournament.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT