WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 5, 2009
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Tell us how good that was.   
 RYAN MOORE: Yeah, it was a good, solid day all around. I didn't do anything too special. Really just capitalized on the good shots that I hit and was able to scramble. The couple of times I got myself in trouble I was able to get out of it, and usually that adds up to a pretty good round.  
  
  Q. I take it was even more special sinking three birdies on the back nine?   
 RYAN MOORE: Yeah, that was nice -- actually, the first of the three, I actually hooked my lay-up shot on the par 5 and actually hit a tree and came back into play. And then was able to hit a decent shot from like over by the cart path in the trees and hit it on the green, or actually on the fringe, like 25 feet and made a birdie putt there.   
 So that was kind of like a good little momentum. I was able to carry that through and hit some really good shots next two holes and had a couple 5- or 6-footers.  
  
  Q. You hit that tree?  
 RYAN MOORE: Yeah, I watched it. I was begging for it to hit something. I kind of snagged out of the rough and shot out left more than I thought it was going to, and the angle kind of snuck up on me. Sure enough, got a great break there. Sometimes you need that to shoot a good round like this.   
  
  Q. Am I right saying this is your first visit to China?   
 RYAN MOORE: Yes, this is my first visit to China. It's been a great week so far. Really enjoyed it. Just got to keep doing what I'm doing right now.  
  
  Q. There are times as golfers, it's hotel, golf course, that's it, but what do you make of the place? Have you seen anything?   
 RYAN MOORE: Yeah, actually I came in a couple of days early and was able to stay right downtown and really just walked around and really tried to soak it all in. I'm actually going to stay a little bit after, too, to just enjoy it. Obviously a completely different culture. I love it. I think it's great. It's just fun to go explore.   
  
  Q. How often do you get out of the states to explore?   
 RYAN MOORE: You know, with as busy of a schedule as we have on the PGA TOUR, it's tough, because you're playing 30 or so weeks out there, and if I have a week off, I don't want to go anywhere else. I want to go home. It was great. I love playing -- I played in Australia a couple of years ago in a couple of events. It was fun to get out and go play a little. Obviously this week, as soon as I knew I was in, I wasn't passing this one up. It's just fun for me.  
  
  Q. You like to make the most of it when you go to a place, you like to look around?   
 RYAN MOORE: Oh, absolutely. There's just so much stuff to see. It's hard to soak it all in in the couple of days that I am going to get but I'll try to make the most of it and really experience the culture that I'm in.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT