FRYS.COM OPEN
October 23, 2009
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Ryan, talk about your start here. A nice 65 today, and 9-under through two rounds. 
 RYAN MOORE: Yeah, it was just solid golf both days. Just striking the ball well, from driver through irons, wedges, everything. If I got myself in trouble, I got out of it. 
 I was able to capitalize on some good iron shots, and somehow it's added up to 9-under for the last two days.

 Q. Talk about coming in after a T7 last week. Similar conditions.
 RYAN MOORE: Yeah, very similar. The ball is obviously going a very similar distance. You know, it's just nice having the consistency two weeks in a row playing very, very similar. That doesn't happen too much out here, so that's been nice. 
 This is a home game for me this week. So staying in my own bed and hanging out around the house relaxing is pretty nice.

 Q. How sweet is that to be able to be home and play?
 RYAN MOORE: Well, you know, I only get it twice a year, you know, down here. So you definitely enjoy those weeks actually getting to eat, you know, home-cooked meals and you can barbecue in the afternoons. It's great. 
 I look forward to it. I always have some family down just to hang out and enjoy the week.

 Q. Talk about going forward now. You posted 9-under? And you know that you play late Saturday and you know you're in this tournament.
 RYAN MOORE: Yeah, I'm right where I want to be. The lead could get up to 11-, 12-, 13-under, something like that. Any way, I'm close where I'm at. You know, I have a chance going into the weekend. I think that's all you're trying to do the first two days, you know, just put yourself in a good solid position and hopefully go take care of it over the last two days.

 Q. Talk about knowing there are birdies out there. Like you said, it could be 10, 11, 12, whatever, but you know there is birdies out there. 
 RYAN MOORE: Once again, you get conditions like this, the wind is not even barely moving, if anything. You know, that makes things a lot more scorable for us. Really you're able to attack pins and irons. When that happens, there's gonna be lots of birdies.
 I'm just happy I've been able to make a few of them and I'm close. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT