WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 20, 2009
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DOUG MILNE: Okay. Ryan Moore, thanks for joining us for a few minutes after a very successful Round 1 of the Wyndham Championship, 6-under 64. 
 If you wouldn't mind just opening up a few comments on the round and kind of assess your game as you have posted that 6-under 64 today.
 RYAN MOORE: You know, today was just one of those really solid days. Didn't do anything too crazy, too special. Just really put the ball in play well which is what you have to do out here. Length is not really much of an issue. 
 I think I hit about four drivers all day and maybe five -- no, I think about four. So really just put it in play well and decently hit the irons but just when I hit a good shot I capitalized, I made the putt and scored well on a couple par-5s so really that's -- that's all there is to it.
DOUG MILNE: Where were you when they blew the horn at about 12:30 and how did you kill the four hour time?
 RYAN MOORE: I was on the 15th green and had just left my 20-foot downhill eagle putt about four and a half feet short somehow.
 Yeah. So just went in and honestly sat on the couch the entire time and did not move. It was fantastic. Got a couple magazines, watched a little TV, played with my phone. All the exciting stuff. So, you know, not much. 
 DOUG MILNE: We'll open it up for a few questions.

 Q. I think your first PGA TOUR event here they gave you an exemption. You still were an amateur. Do you think about that at all?
 RYAN MOORE: Yeah. I enjoy coming back here, definitely. Even though it's a different golf course, it's still that similar feel to it and, you know, I like playing well anywhere but coming back to a place like this, obviously there's a little something inside me that things are pretty fun to win the same tournament that was the first tournament, first PGA Tour event I ever played. 
 There's something to it. That wouldn't be bad. But I like to win anywhere, to be honest.
 DOUG MILNE: They made a comment on TV a little while ago just about your demeanor and how relaxed you always seem to be, as if nothing ever gets under your skin or rattles you.
 Is that part of your makeup, something that you had to kind of train yourself to do or have you always been kind of the very easy going, relaxed type, whether you're in the heat of contention or just fighting your way through a round?
 RYAN MOORE: No. It's definitely something -- personalitywise, that's kind of just me. That's how I am. But actually as far as competition, sports, I have to fight to get myself to be that way. You know, when I was younger, I was definitely not like this, not really relaxed and just having fun but, you know, it's definitely where I play my best golf from and, you know, even on a day-to-day basis I'm not like that out there every single day but it's how I like to carry myself, it's how I try to carry myself and, you know, all in all we're out there -- we're out there a lot and if you're not having fun what's the point in that's kind of -- that's how I like to think of it as just go out there and have fun. 
 I always like to have a good friend or like a brother out caddying for me which is more fun for me, someone to have a good conversation with and you can joke around with.
 I like to do things like that just to make it, you know, that much more enjoyable and relaxing for me.
 DOUG MILNE: Is your brother on your bag this week?
 RYAN MOORE: No. This is just a buddy.

 Q. What's it like in the rain delay for you? Are you thinking about the game you're playing and the round you're playing that day or are you blocking it out?
 RYAN MOORE: No. I was just thinking about the movies I was missing out on watching this afternoon. I was a little disappointed about that. I had it all planned out, done, go have some lunch, maybe get a coffee, nice and relax, go see a movie. You know, that just didn't work.

 Q. What was on the docket?
 RYAN MOORE: I've been wanting to go see this one called Hurt Locker, more of an independent film. I heard it's really good, had some really good reviews on it. 
 There was -- it was playing in the theatre here. I've been in couple different cities, it wasn't in those theatres. I was going to try to see it.

 Q. That is a major independent. What's it called?
 RYAN MOORE: Hurt Locker. But, now I'll just go see something else.

 Q. Have you ever gone back to the hotel or where you were staying in a rain delay?
 RYAN MOORE: Well, you know, the problem is in circumstances like this, they don't know well enough to tell us whether it's going to be 30 minutes or four hours. 
 So, you know, these things can move real fast and get out of the way and all of a sudden have a wide open window to go play for two hours. It's kind of hard to leave just for the fact that you might be playing 20 minutes or 30 minutes.
 I always like to stick around. If you know -- obviously if you know it's going to be two and a half, three hours, yeah, I like to kind of go leave and do something so you're just not sitting and not moving. 
 Although that seemed to work for me today, sitting and doing nothing. I barely even warmed up. I had like four wedges and then I just went back out there. Seemed to work. Two birdies coming in. One of them I already had a four foot birdie putt that doesn't really count.

 Q. You made that first birdie putt?
 RYAN MOORE: I did. I was nervous, actually. I was really nervous on it. I have no idea why I was so nervous.

 Q. You had four hours to think about it.
 RYAN MOORE: Why did you leave it short, it's so stupid. That's all I was thinking the whole time.

Q. It's a different, I guess, if you hit it to four feet from the middle of the fairway.
 RYAN MOORE: Yeah, exactly. Putt at eagle, pretty darn straight, just down the hill. Kind of get it going. I don't know what I was looking at when I hit that putt but it certainly wasn't the ball.
 DOUG MILNE: All right. Ryan, great playing. Congratulations on your first around 64 and best of luck tomorrow and into the weekend.
 RYAN MOORE: All right. Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT