TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 28, 2009
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Ryan, what a way to finish there on 18. 
 RYAN MOORE: Yeah. It's always nice to birdie a hole, let alone parring a long putt like that. You know, I was close all day. I made some pretty good putts, and I kind of got a good line on it and I was standing over it saying please hit it hard enough because it was pretty slow going up that hill. So I fortunately got it there. 

 Q. Good week for you, too. Opened with a 66, 65, 68, 6-under par 64 today. Looks like this is going to be your best finish of the year. 
 RYAN MOORE: Yeah. It was a very solid week. I got a lot of confidence, played well last week and that kind of rolled over into this week and I kind of continued to do the same thing, which is really make putts. I putted great three of the four rounds yesterday I just couldn't quite get them to go in, but overall that was still probably the best part of the week and I'm just looking forward to seeing who's ahead now. 

 Q. Well done. The silver tie looks great. 

 Q. How many times have you played this course?
 RYAN MOORE: Four. 

 Q. Tell me about the golf course. 
 RYAN MOORE: You know, it's a position golf course. You know, it's really a putting battle, especially when it's soft like this. When it gets a little firmer, it's a little tougher to hit the fairways and the greens, but when it's soft like this, you know you're going to hit a lot of fairways and greens going around it, and from there you just gotta make putts, and I think that's tough pressure to know. 
 Everybody's going to be shooting good golf scores and shooting 64 like I did today and barely move. That's tough knowing that you gotta go shoot a 61 or 2 to really make any big jump out there.

 Q. Do you like position golf courses?
 RYAN MOORE: I do. I seem to have played well here. I finished second here two years ago. So I seem to play well here, and you know, I think a lot of it's conditions for me. It's a lot like home, a lot like what I grew up on in the Northwest. The grass is similar the greens roll, very similar, break similar. I think the more you get on stuff like that --

 Q. So putting greens is like what you're putting on in the northwest, same kind of thing, you have a comfort level with it?
 RYAN MOORE: Yeah. Definitely. It's just a matter of how it breaks, just seeing that, I think this area for me and just the whole Northeast is very similar to home and I tend to play well and putt well up in these areas. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT