TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 26, 2009
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DOUG MILNE: Ryan Moore, thank for joining us for a few minutes here at the Travelers Championship after a very solid second round, six birdies, just one bogey, 5-under 65. You're coming off a great week, Top 10 finish last week at Beth Page. Obviously you're happy with the state of your game. Just a few comments as you're heading into the weekend.   
 RYAN MOORE: Yeah. You know, any time you go play solid in a major, definitely -- well, for me at least, it kind of gave me some positive momentum going into this week.   
 I played really well, really solid last week in kind of every aspect of the game. I drove the ball well, I hit irons well, chipped well, putted well, especially putted well. Really made a lot of good solid putts in the kind of short to mid range, and it's just gotten me feeling better standing over the golf ball in every aspect of the game.   
 DOUG MILNE: We'll go ahead and open it up for a few questions.   
  
  Q. How were the course conditions today compared to yesterday?  
 RYAN MOORE: They were great again today. A little bit more wind, a little breeze up-and-down, but it still was nothing significant enough to be too penalizing or anything.   
 The course was reasonably firm, actually for as much rain as it seems like we've had up in the area here. So I think it's holding up great, but it still is a little bit soft, which means you can be pretty aggressive and have a lot of mid to short irons on this golf course which means you can kind of take it at the pin all day. That's what I would do. That really doesn't happen very much, but the best 25-footers.   
  
  Q. Ryan, last week, driving, iron, everything going well. Has that not been the case earlier in the year for you?  
 RYAN MOORE: Yeah. It's been close. You know, everything's been really close, and you know, the scores were not necessarily indicating how well I was playing for a while.   
 Drives were just missing fairways. Pretty good shots on greens were just missing. Putts were just hitting the edges. Everything was close, and it was hard to not get extremely discouraged because I felt like I was playing so much better. And you know, I kind of figured out something after the Memorial that weekend I had a couple days off because I missed the cut, and I had a couple days to practice for the qualifier which was going to be that Monday, so that kind of worked out for me pretty well, and just figured out something that made things a lot more comfortable for me and ended up playing great in the qualifier and played great last week, and kind of continuing.   
  
  Q. What was it that you figured out?  
 RYAN MOORE: You know, just little things in my grip and in my hand.   
 I'm a very left-side dominant golfer and having hurt my left hand, it just kind of made things really difficult. Essentially it's just been a power struggle in my golf swing between my right and left side and they haven't really been working well together, and I've just simply started making them work together again. So that's created a lot better misses overall. It hasn't been honestly that much better than it was a month ago, but the misses are way better and a lot more down the line and very reasonable, and I can shoot golf scores from where I'm missing right now and I was having a really hard time shooting decent scores where I was missing before.   
  
  Q. Some guys have won their first tournaments here. You were second I think two years back. What does it take in your mind to finish the job and win a tournament?  
 RYAN MOORE: Play good for four days. I don't know, you know, I've been close a couple times, lost in the Playoffs last year. You know, I've won a lot of tournaments. I just haven't won out here yet, and I think that it's the same thing anywhere, you know, at any level. You just gotta get it done when it matters. Just coming down the stretch you gotta hit good shots, and you make putts, and it's as simple as that.  
 And you know, a lot of it's just kind of being ready for that and being excited for having those chances and having that extra pressure, and the nerves and everything. Is just a big part of it I think is just looking forward to it.   
  
  Q. You can't let yourself get frustrated when your game wasn't playing so well. Is that the same as winning a tournament, you can't let yourself get down?  
 RYAN MOORE: Yeah. I definitely have high expectations for myself, and I know I am capable of winning golf tournaments, and that hasn't happened yet, but I've definitely had some things holding me back for a little while, but you know, I feel like those are gone now, and I'm just starting to get -- starting to be myself again, honestly. That's what I feel like, and I haven't felt like myself for a long time on the golf course, so that was just exciting last week, just to be there and to be playing consistent, just to feel comfortable again being in that position and playing well and playing the highest level in a major.   
  
  Q. What was holding you back?  
 RYAN MOORE: I had surgery on my hand like three years ago, on my left hand, and you know, just the strength issues, and just the comfort and just using it the same way I used to use it. I just kind of wasn't using it the same way, and that was kind of what hit me recently was just to start using my left hand a little bit more the way I used to.   
  
  Q. Has the tie always been a part of your apparel?  
 RYAN MOORE: It has been this year a bit. I started out earlier part of the year when it wasn't too hot. I could wear it a little bit more. But it hasn't been the last month and a half or so, but it's coming back out. I like it. I love the old classic golf look, and I just think it's fun. That's all I'm trying to do, just have fun and enjoy it.   
  
  Q. You gotta wear the tennis shoes or else you just look too professional. I don't want that.   
 DOUG MILNE: If you would, Ryan, run us through your birdies and give us some clubs and yardages the best you can remember.   
 RYAN MOORE: Okay. Starting on No. 2, I hit a 3-wood in there. I had a pitching wedge from about 115 yards. I actually hit a terrible shot with that, yanked it about 20 feet left, and poured it right in there.   
 Fifth hole, par-3 I hit a great hybrid from about 225 today. I hit a hybrid, like 22-degree hybrid. It's like my 3-iron, to about 25 feet, right of it which was right where I was trying to hit it and just poured it right in again.  
 Next hole, hit driver and 3-wood right in front of the green and made it about 40 yards short to hit nice pitch in there to about four feet. I was able to make that one.  
 12 was I hit driver and then had 145 yards, but it was kind of little breeze in and it was kind of early in the morning and so hit 8-iron there, punch 8-iron, hit in to about eight or nine feet, knocked that one right in. And then the par-5, hit driver and 3-wood from about 254 to the pin, knocked it in there to about 12 feet for eagle and left that one short. And I was able to make birdie.  
  
  Q. What happened with the bogey?  
 RYAN MOORE: It was such a hard hole, you know. I hit a horrible drive. It was kind of funny. I didn't even realize that was the only hole I bogeyed today.   
 Yeah, I hit a terrible drive over into the right bunker. From there I kind of hit a little too firm with my wedge, you know, kind of bunker shot, hit it just over the green and trickled over, chipped it up to about 10 feet and missed it.  
 And then 17 was a very good birdie. I actually hit it in the left bunker off the tee, had about 145 or 6 and just had a nice lie and perfect 9-iron, hit it to about eight feet, knocked it in there.   
 DOUG MILNE: Okay, Ryan, well done, keep it up into the weekend. Thanks for coming by.   
 RYAN MOORE: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT