SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 5, 2009
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   RYAN MOORE: It's been kind of very solid. All though it's been great. Driven the ball well. Obviously, you can miss fairways by a little bit out here and it doesn't penalize you like we do a lot of times. Lot of time -- I'm not a guy that, you know, misses fairways big a lot. 
 So actually, I feel like a little bit -- it's nice for someone like me who kind just tends to just barely chase them through fairways when I'm not going into the rough every time. Really, I've hit my wedges really well, but I'll tell you, most of my birdie ops were good wedges in there.
 It's been a little bit of everything. Good driving, good irons, too. Putting. Little bit of everything. Just the way it's been. It's been kind of like kind of get out there and play. It's almost -- I'm not really thinking about everything. I'm having some fun, kind of get out there, not worried about it, and take care of the holes I have ahead of me, whatever that is.

 Q. Has that made it easier, kind of been a jumbled week, that you kind of play it hole by hole instead of round by round?
 RYAN MOORE: Yeah. It's been very segmented. You can't really even think of it round by round, it's so broken up. The -- I was in the wave where we played a few holes, came back and finished, you know, and took a whole day off. 
 It was -- it's been very kind of sporadic. It's fine for me. I don't mind that. Some guys maybe like to have more in a row. I'm fine with that. Play whatever, whenever.

 Q. You have about 90 minutes. What will you do now?
 RYAN MOORE: I'm starving. I'm really hungry.

 Q. You're talking about an aberration with no equipment deal. Does that bring a certain extra freedom that maybe you didn't have before that you just play what you want, do what you want?
 RYAN MOORE: Man, certainly, it's been nice. I can shuffle with any company. Get everything -- everything that's in my bag right now is exactly what I want in my bag. I think that's the nice thing. That brings a lot of confidence there. I'm not trying to get this 3-wood to work for me and so forth. 
 I've picked all the stuff that's in there because I want it in there. That's it. I think that's been nice.

 Q. Is that a new driver that week?
 RYAN MOORE: No, I've been playing it since the FBR.

 Q. Is it going to be a little different they're not re-pairing?
 RYAN MOORE: I'm not a leaderboard watcher. So honestly for me, I'm fine with it. I wouldn't mind if we re-paired, but this is nice. I think it's easier on us. To go sit and wait, wait for everybody to re-pair, get everything situated, kind of lets us have a little bit of a routine. 
 We have an hour and a half now. We can kind of go spend it how we want. I think it's great for us, for players just in general. For the Tournament, it's obviously not normal for us to do this, but I think it's great of them to do it.
 Q. Thank you. Good luck today. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT