JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 17, 2008
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You had a 64 that had a couple bombs in it. No bogeys. About as nice as you can play? 
 RYAN MOORE: Yeah, it was a nice steady round. I was fortunate to make a couple good long ones there on my first five on the back side. 
 But, you know, unfortunately not able to capitalize. I didn't birdie either par-5 or the drivable par-4 back there, so that was a little frustrating. But to still shoot 5-under on that side without birdieing any of those holes, it was a pretty solid round.
 Then just kept it nice and steady there on the second nine there and jsut kind of made some birdies where I had my chances and made a good up-and-down there on my 17th hole. I'm just trying to keep up at this point in time.

 Q. It really is kind of like that, isn't it? You just got to pedal as fast as you can, because everybody else is. 
 RYAN MOORE: Yeah, you know, I mean, the course is in great shape right now with no wind period. That's the one defense on a golf course like this. The greens are rolling so good, and scorable par-5s and a drivable par-4, I mean, it's all there right now, so... 

 Q. In a year of golf around Las Vegas, and you've played here for many years year-round, is this as nice a time to play and as great of conditions as you could ever see?
 RYAN MOORE: Yeah, I mean, it really is. This is generally probably the nicest time of year. I always love the end of October, early November. Seems to be when the wind calms down around here. 
 Calm is 10 to 15 around here, so to have nothing, like it's been the last couple days, it's actually rather enjoyable.

 Q. You introduced painter's cap to the TOUR a couple years ago. This weekend you're going with the head band. 
 RYAN MOORE: I just, you know, want to keep people on their toes and change it up every now and again for fun. Why not? 

 Q. You're having a lot fun this week paying around all these people. Is this a homecoming week for you? 
 RYAN MOORE: Yeah, absolutely. I went to school here and living here for a little while afterwards. You know, I really love this area. I really do. I enjoy any chance to get back here. Playing a little good golf on top of that is always a bonus. 

 Q. All of the west coast guys, there's just kind of a comfort factor getting back out west. 
 RYAN MOORE: Yeah, it's nice. I think they've done a great job with the schedule to bring us back out this time of year. I just love playing out here, especially on a golf course I'm comfortable with and played so much in college. You know, just trying to enjoy myself.

 Q. Keep having fun and keep pedalling fast. 
 RYAN MOORE: Absolutely. I have to. 

 Q. A bogey-free 64. You've only had one bogey in 36 rounds. Mistake-free golf. 
 RYAN MOORE: Yeah, the conditions have been so great, you know, and the golf course is in such great shape right now. Yeah, I've been fortunate to have driven the ball well. If you drive the ball well out here you got a lot of wedges, and I've been hitting them decently well. Just capitalizing. 
 Fortunately I smacked down a couple six-, eight-footers for par will today, and that's really what it takes in these conditions.

 Q. Like the Red Sox last night, you got home field advantage here. You went to UNLV. You live here. How much of a boost is that? 
 RYAN MOORE: I mean, it's always a bonus to be playing somewhere you're comfortable and you don't feel like you have to go out and research a whole a lot. I've played it so much times and I played the Wednesday Pro-Am and just ready to go. 
 Yeah, I'm very comfortable and obviously have some good memories from college. I'm just trying to keep up with those guys.

 Q. We got to ask you about the head band because everyone is talking about it. What's the deal? Is it comfortable?
 RYAN MOORE: It's extremely comfortable actually. I really like it. It's kind of a funny idea I had earlier in the year. A couple of my friends and I were joking around about it, and I actually wore it at the FBR Open for a couple days, and got harassed pretty well by the crowds there, which is always fun. 
 But, yeah, just kind of felt like bringing it back out. Seems to be working, so who knows, might be sticking for a while. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 RYAN MOORE: Well, I hope they're enjoying it. You know, they're seeing a lot of good golf right now, so I'm just happy to be a part of it. 
 But, you know, it's just different. It's a completely different mindset, these kind of conditions compared to a U.S. Open or something. It's just one of the ones where you just got to try and keep up really. There are so many great players out here, and obviously they're shooting lights out. 
 For me, I'm just going out there and trying to stay as focused as I can on my round and just be patient and know that you can just rattle off five or six birdies real quick in conditions like that. 

 Q. Five former Rebels in this field, including you. How great would it be for the Las Vegas fans to see one of you guys break through a win this thing? 
 RYAN MOORE: I'd love to do that for them. You know, I still haven't had a victory out here on TOUR, and I'm doing my best to make this my first one. 
 So just got the keep the pace I'm going at now, and hopefully I'll be right there Sunday.

 Q. (No microphone.)
 RYAN MOORE: Yeah, I mean, it is truly one of the top programs in the country. I enjoyed every second that I was there. It really helped me to develop my game to where it is now to be able to get right out on TOUR right out of college and not feel out of place and not feel uncomfortable. 
 He's a great guy. He does a phenomenal job. It's just really one of the best programs in the country. 

 Q. It's kind of neat to see him out here walking around.
 RYAN MOORE: I love having him out here. It's always great to have a lot of supporters and good friends and family and just having a fun week. 

 Q. Of the Rebels in the field, if I'm a betting man, do I bet on you this weekend?
 RYAN MOORE: Well, I'm doing all right, you know. I just got to keep doing what I'm doing. We'll see. I don't see any reason to change it. I'm comfortable and swinging the clubs well. Just going to keep trying to do what I'm doing and just be aggressive when I can. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT