EDS BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
April 25, 2008
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Ryan, you always make it an adventure, only 10 greens again. That's not the way you're supposed to do it.   
 RYAN MOORE: No, no, definitely. I definitely kind of paid the price for it today. But you know, it was one of those things where I'm missing it in the right spots around the greens. I'm giving myself a lot of simple chances for up-and-downs. You know, it makes things a lot easier when you're doing that.  
  
  Q. And you're still making a lot of birdies on top of it?  
 RYAN MOORE: Yeah, I'm making lots of birdies, unfortunately way too many bogeys. If we can eliminate some of those on the weekend, that would be nice.  
  
  Q. Did you feel a little more comfortable on the golf course today? Yesterday a lot of the players I saw were kind of babying putts a little bit, not really committed because they weren't quite sure where they were going to roll. Were you okay with that yesterday and today?  
 RYAN MOORE: Yeah, I was fine yesterday. I was even a little better yesterday. Well, I played well both days. I just think I need to get in the fairway a little bit quicker off the tee.  
  
  Q. Every day on a newer kind of layout like this with the redesign is a learning experience, isn't it?  
 RYAN MOORE: Yeah, there's a few if you miss it you've got to miss on the correct side of it, and I did that about three times today where I was just completely stymied. You can't do that too many times. Maybe once around you can get away with it, but you do it more than once, you're paying the price, and I did.  
  
  Q. Five birdies, five bogeys, how would you assess it?  
 RYAN MOORE: Yeah, exactly that. I just didn't strike the ball quite as well as I'd like to. I wasn't putting it in good positions off the tee. I don't know how many fairways I hit, but it wasn't very many. So today was just kind of scrambling, and on a course like this and in windy conditions like it's been the last couple days, that's kind of to be expected.  
  
  Q. Do you feel like you have a better feel for this course now after two rounds under your belt with all the changes?  
 RYAN MOORE: Yeah, I was really comfortable with it yesterday. I love the changes. I really like the greens. I felt about the same as I did yesterday.  
  
  Q. The weather is supposed to get a little nasty here in the next couple days. Do you feel like this weekend might be more about survival and patience than anything else?  
 RYAN MOORE: Well, you know, it seems like every week that's what it's all about. But you know, obviously tougher conditions, tougher weather, that's what it becomes. These first two days have been a lot of that, as well, with this wind and firm, pretty dry greens. It's tough to control them in there.  
  
  Q. 15th hole, that thing is a monster, and we saw you there hit it in the middle of the green and it rolled back.   
 RYAN MOORE: Yeah, sadly that was about the best shot I hit all day, that second shot in there. It was kind of up-and-down with the wind. It felt like it was into me a lot more than it was, and I hit 3 instead of 4 and just flagged it with that 3-iron. Like you said, it landed in the middle of the green, and it chased through. It's a tough putt from back there, tough to judge the speed. It's a good golf hole, it really is, and it's a fair hole for the distance.  
  
  Q. That last one, is that one of the toughest par-4s you've seen this year?  
 RYAN MOORE: It's tough, and it was pretty much playing back into the wind. You have to hit two really good shots to give yourself a reasonable chance at birdie.   
  
  Q. Let's just get some comments on your day. It was quite an up-and-down day for you today?  
 RYAN MOORE: Yeah, it was. It was one of those days where, just a lot like yesterday with the wind, you just kind of have to fight it around. Of course I didn't hit as many good irons today, so I didn't have as many good opportunities. I missed a few too many fairways, and of course I kind of paid the price.   
  
  Q. Do you like where you're at, 3-under through the first couple days?  
 RYAN MOORE: Yeah, I'm in red numbers. I can't complain about that. I haven't been there a lot lately, and my game is feeling a lot more solid right now. Tough, windy conditions like this for two days, being in red is not a bad place to be.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT