THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY MORGAN STANLEY
June 3, 2007
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.  What was it like? 
 RYAN MOORE:  Helpless, for sure.  I left it in his hands.  I mean, he had control of the tournament.  It was up to him, and he played well obviously all week and all day, and he's going to make a par on the last hole.  I wasn't too worried about that. 

 Q.  It wasn't for lack of trying; you had five straight birdies there. 
 RYAN MOORE:  You know, it was interesting.  I just kind of -- after I didn't birdie No. 11, I don't remember what happened, but at that point in time I kind of made an internal goal to myself, just try and post 15, just get it to 15 and that will be a good, solid tournament.  I haven't played as well as I would like to in recent years.  I thought, just get it to 15. 
 So I started getting going there, and ended up making four in a row, and all of a sudden, I'm in it.  I didn't really think about it until I moved to 15 under there on 16, and I'm like, I'm within two right now. 
 So getting up there, 17 was a good shot in there to a couple feet and popped that one in.  It's just great having a chance coming up 18.  It's a feeling I haven't had in a long time, so it was nice. 

 Q.  You mentioned that you didn't think K.J. was going to miss that or that he had it? 
 RYAN MOORE:  Absolutely. 

 Q.  You've got to know what it's like to be standing over something like that. 
 RYAN MOORE:  Those are not gimmes, that's for sure, and I like the fact that I have put up a number that made him have to think about it coming down the stretch.  Obviously he performed and he made the putt he had to make.  There's still a couple guys behind him that could surpass him or tie him. 
 But I'm just glad I posted a number and made him have to think about it a little bit. 

 Q.  You fell a shot short like this on a day like this, on Sunday, it's still 62. 
 RYAN MOORE:  Yeah, it didn't make me feel too bad.  It seemed like he was birdieing every hole there for a while.  To even be in the position I was in on 18, I was very surprised.  It was a nice little stretch, like I said.  I'll take five birdies in a row on the back side on Sunday every week and won't complain about it. 

 Q.  To be in contention as a tournament as prestigious as this has got to mean a lot for your career. 
 RYAN MOORE:  It can't hurt anything, I hope.  It was just fun.  I love being in that position.  It's just something -- that's what I'm out here for, and I haven't put myself out there as often as I would like.  Especially in the bigger tournaments, it's just that much bigger.  The crowds are great, and it's just fun to get going and get fired up.  It was just a blast. 

 Q.  It seems like the last guys (inaudible). 
 RYAN MOORE:  Yeah, the course, again, played a lot like the first round where it was pretty calm all day and there wasn't much wind and the greens were receptive.  They were tough pin locations all the way around.  The course itself is very difficult.  But if you're hitting your irons well, you definitely have some good opportunities. 

 Q.  You're one of those guys that nearly carried out amateur success on the professional level, unlike some guys like Wittenberg or Barnes or guys like that.  Would you consider this -- after the second at the Buick Championship, are you happy with the second place finish or a Top 5 finish, or are you still looking for that first win? 
 RYAN MOORE:  I'm still out here to win, but being in the position I was in through, you know, 10 or 11 holes today, I mean, I don't even know if I was top 20 at that point in time at 10-under or whatever I was at.  To be in the position I was in in the last three holes, I can't be happier.  Just to jump into that position to even have a chance, that's what I play golf for.  Obviously I want to win, and anything short of that is disappointing.  But to perform well on a Sunday afternoon, that's what I'm out here for. 

 End of FastScripts… 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT