THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY MORGAN STANLEY
June 1, 2007
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Pretty consistent I would think.  Today, yesterday, 66-69.  Are you pretty happy with that? 
 RYAN MOORE:  Yeah.  Overall the ball-striking was a little better yesterday, but the putter was great, earlier in the round today.  Made a lot of good par savers, even throughout the whole day, made a lot of good five to ten footers. 
 To put a good score in, sometimes that's just what you have to do. 

 Q.  Staying maybe out of the rough, hazards?  Did you do a good job of that today? 
 RYAN MOORE:  Well, no, I didn't do as good a job of hitting fairways today as I did yesterday.  I think I only missed one fairway yesterday, where I think I maybe hit half of them today.  So I didn't do quite a good a job there.  I did a decent job of recovering from those places I was putting myself in. 

 Q.  How did you do on 15? 
 RYAN MOORE:  15?  I hit a great drive.  That was playing long at the end of the day.  I obviously killed a 3-wood and it flew right up to the front edge and rolled all the way back down the slope, and then I hit a poor chip and wasn't able to make birdie.  So that was kind of disappointing. 

 Q.  It seemed like the wind was picking up a little bit near the back half of your round.  Do you think it's going to be a disadvantage for some people or did you even notice? 
 RYAN MOORE:  We always notice the wind.  That's one thing we pay attention to all the time.  When it starts picking up, it makes a course like this definitely play more difficult.  There's a lot of water and a lot of things that if you get your ball moving a little bit the wrong direction, you can get in some trouble.  Yesterday we didn't have an ounce of wind.  It was as calm as could be, which was shown to be great scoring conditions.  A little bit more interesting out there, holes like a 14, where it's just a little bit of wind, a little down, a little side, it can just throw everything off. 
 A hole like 15, playing straight back into the wind, whereas yesterday you're hitting like a 2-iron or 3-iron into it, now I have to hit a 3-wood as good as I possibly could, and I still didn't get there.  It makes a big difference. 

 Q.  All in all you've got to feel pretty comfortable in your position? 
 RYAN MOORE:  Yeah, it's nice.  I was able to put together a couple good rounds in a row last week, which was good, and I think I'm starting to build off the momentum of that, just continuing it. 

 Q.  The way the scores are going what do you think the number is going to be on Sunday? 
 RYAN MOORE:  It's hard to say because you just don't know with the weather.  It dictates a lot.  If it's windy or breezy it's a totally different golf course.  If it's calm there's good scores out there. 
 Adam got off nice and early.  He still had some breeze on his last probably four or five holes, but he got out nice and early and obviously played great.  So there's great scores out there, you just never know. 

 Q.  If this wind picks up more, is it going to kind of make a little havoc? 
 RYAN MOORE:  It'll make it interesting.  On this golf course any amount of wind makes holes that much harder. 

 Q.  Was it starting to pick up a little bit? 
 RYAN MOORE:  You know, it kind of picked up towards like 12, 13, 14, 15, and it kind of died down the last couple. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT