THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY MORGAN STANLEY
May 31, 2007
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q.  How are you feeling?  You're not feeling well?   
 RYAN MOORE:  You know, at this exact moment in time, no.  For some reason I feel fine in the mornings and part of the afternoon, and sometime in the afternoon it keeps getting me.  I was able to get it around and bring it in all right.  It will be nice getting to play a little earlier tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  Do you know what you have, the flu?  Apparently something is going around, Tiger is sick, Zach withdrew?   
 RYAN MOORE:  I take allergy medication and that usually does it, so I don't know what it is.  Fortunately it's not holding me back too much.   
  
  Q.  6-under, huh?   
 RYAN MOORE:  Yeah, that was nice.  I'll take a few more of those.  I wouldn't mind.   
  
  Q.  You've been playing well recently.  Did you feel like this round was kind of coming?   
 RYAN MOORE:  You know, it's -- yeah, things have been coming together.  I've been doing good things in different areas and just haven't really put things together.  Some rounds I drive the ball well, some rounds I hit my irons well and make some putts.  The combination hasn't been there.  Finally today it was a good combination.  I made some good -- a couple putts I shouldn't have and made all the big ones I should have and just took care of my round really well.  I had a few reasonable up-and-downs and just kind of got it around, really.   
  
  Q.  Is this golf course pretty conducive to putting up a low number today?   
 RYAN MOORE:  Yeah, it was about as calm as can be.  There was maybe a four- or five-mile-per-hour breeze out there, if that.  It was a little moist and the greens were definitely receptive.  Obviously the scoring showed that there were a lot of good scores out there if you just put it in the right places.   
  
  Q.  Fired up now to come back tomorrow?   
 RYAN MOORE:  Absolutely.  I'm always excited, no matter how I play.  Tomorrow is a new day, I'm just going to go see what I can do.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT