BUICK CHAMPIONSHIP
July 2, 2006
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TODD BUDNICK:  We welcome Ryan Moore runner up of the 2006 Buick Championship.  Ryan made a nice run today but J.J. never really came back to the field.
RYAN MOORE:  Yeah, I didn't really put any pressure on him early, and when I had some chances, I had some good looks at birdies the first five or six holes and just couldn't get them to go.  I think that was more    that's what needed to happen, when someone in a pretty comfortable position, with a big lead like that, needed somebody to jump out right away and put pressure on him.  Obviously he didn't falter.  Someone had to go get him.  I did have the chance, just didn't capitalize really.
TODD BUDNICK:  Disappointed with not winning, but has to be a good feeling after the hand surgery earlier this year that your game is back to where you'd like it to be.
RYAN MOORE:  Yeah, definitely.  It just felt really consistent and solid.  Every round was just very similar where I never really got it going the whole week.  I was able to make a lot of good, solid par saving putts, that kind of stuff is what really kept me going throughout the week.  And then throw in a few birdies here and there and it all ended up to not too bad I guess.
Q.  Did you hear the roars from his gallery?  It was probably pretty much unavoidable.
RYAN MOORE:  Yeah.  But you never know if they are for pars or birdies or what they are for.  Somebody makes a 15 footer for par, people are pretty loud, too.

I didn't look at    the first score board I saw was, I think it was after I knocked it in the water on 16.  I was dead on the green after I hit my approach shot and that's where I saw my first leaderboard of the day.  It was right there and couldn't avoid it actually.  So I had an idea of, I figured he was at least 13 , 14 , 15 under and obviously I needed to make a lot of birdies to go catch him and just didn't happen.
Q.  16th hole is dead into the wind, what did you hit and can you talk about the wind and how that hole played?
RYAN MOORE:  It was playing about 163 or 164 to the pin.  Actually that exactly right where I hit it yesterday where that pin was.  I had a 7 iron yesterday and it obviously at that point in time I had to make a birdie.  6 iron was back middle of the green, 20, 30 feet above it.  I needed to make some birdies at that point in time and I knew it.  I just missed it, just didn't hit it solid, really.  Just hit it a little bit thin.  It was one of those shots, I had to hit it solid to get it there.  It was no problem getting it there, but I missed it and kind of got up in the wind like that, that's something that get you in trouble and unfortunately that's what I did.  I had 135 and hit a punch 9 iron in there to about 2 1/2 or three feet above the hole to salvage a bogey at that point in time which was really big.
Q.  Your last three holes, from the drop to the par on the 17th, are you proud of how you finished where some players might have gone in a different direction after hitting that ball in the water?
RYAN MOORE:  Yeah, to bounce back like that and hit a good shot right after, I could have been really flustered and really angry at myself because I pretty much blew any chance of winning right then and there.  I was still just very focused and very in the moment and just hit the best shot I can.  That's gone and I can't do anything about it anymore.  So I just had to step up and give myself a reasonable chance for bogey.  Staring double bogey in the face almost every time from that kind of range, so to come back and give myself a 4 footer for par, I was very proud of that.  Then the birdie in the last hole, that was pretty huge, as well.
Q.  Did you realize that maybe J.J. was too far away, did you turn your sights towards Hunter and getting second?
RYAN MOORE:  Well, he birdied the last two holes so, even when I saw the score board on 16, I don't think he was even at 10.   I think he was still at 9 because he was over on the green right about that time.  So I didn't even know.  My little brother told me he got to 10 and right after I missed my putt I looked up and he was at 11.  I was like, oh, great.  That was right after I missed the putt for birdie there on 17.  So I was like, all right, well, I make it a goal of mine every round I play whether it's at home or whenever, I birdie the last hole.  That's one of my things, I just absolutely focus, like as much as I can, to birdie that last hole.  That's huge for me.

So I was really focused, I hit it down, actually had to take a drop and was in between a sprinkler in the cart path and took a drop.  It dropped in the perfect place and it bounced and rolled all the way into the hard pan.  It was a little path in this big, scraggly grass and some hard pan and the ball rolled into that.  At that point I was probably mad that I took the drop, I had a good lie but the sprinkler was kind of interfering.  So from there    yeah, there it is.  Where did it land?

I thought that it had a chance.  It was right on line.  From there I had to change clubs actually.  I was 108 yards.  Would normally have been a little cut sand wedge in there but because it rested on the hard pan, I went and ahead and took a lob wedge and tried to trap it and put some spin on it because the ball was going to bounce pretty hard going in there.  So I took the lob wedge and tried to hit that shot and just worked out.  Almost went in.  My brother was actually mad at me that it didn't make it.  But I'll take it.
TODD BUDNICK:  Let's go through your birdies:
RYAN MOORE:  No. 4, that was a driver and from the first cut or the short rough, I hit a pitching wedge to about ten or 12 feet from maybe 145 or so and made that.

5, I hit a perfect shot on the green right where I wanted it, 5 iron, and just blasted the putt about five feet by and hit a pretty darned good comebacker and bounced halfway there.  Kicked it outside the hole and lipped out just on the right edge.

6, then bounced back with a birdie, that was driver and laid up with a 3 iron and had 106 or so.  I hit a little punch kind of chasing sand wedge to three feet or so and was able to sneak that one in there.

11, just hit a good, smooth pitching wedge to the right of the pin, bounced and had maybe an 8  to 10 footer.  I'm not very good at that.  Usually I think it's eight feet and it's like 15, but whatever.

15, I hit a 3 wood actually right at the pin.  It just kicked left and rolled up around just pin high left actually in the perfect place.  Then just kind of flopped a little lob wedge up there.  I was trying to make that as hard as I could and it just went right over the edge and had a few inches left and was able to tap that one in.
TODD BUDNICK:  How far was the putt on 18?
RYAN MOORE:  I saw on the board it said two feet six inches.  So that's my rough guess.
TODD BUDNICK:  Thank you, Ryan.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT