SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
November 2, 2016
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome Ryan Moore into the interview room.  He's making his 11th start here at the Shriners Hospitals For Children Open.  He was our 2012 champ.  Ryan, if we can just get you to comment on being back here at this event.
RYAN MOORE: I mean obviously it's one I look forward to a lot every single year, my one opportunity to be at home.  And I play events, and like you said, I've had some success here having won the event and had a few other decent finishes here.  And this year is a little different coming back from overseas and playing right after that.  But this is my last event of the year, so I'm hoping to go out with a good week.
THE MODERATOR: And 2016 has been quite a year for you.  Just comment a little bit about the obviously the Ryder Cup and then also winning for the third straight season on TOUR.
RYAN MOORE: Yeah.  I mean that's a goal at the beginning of every season is to get a win.  So to win the John Deere this year was huge for me and that was kind of the start up of my good play there towards the end of the season which got me onto that Ryder Cup.  So that was great.  The Ryder Cup was an amazing experience, one that it'll be tough to beat the rest of my life with other events.  So it was an incredible week.  I was very fortunate just to get the pick and be on the team, but I tried to make the most of it once I was.
THE MODERATOR: All right.  We'll open it up to questions.
Q. How much did being able to play pain free help your strong finish to this last season?
RYAN MOORE: I think it was huge.  I think it was I'm not going to say everything, but maybe almost everything, you know, as far as kind of getting me over the hump and just feeling a little bit better, not dealing with pain out there on the course.  And simply moving a little bit better in my golf swing because of it.  A few less errant shots go a long way out here.  So I give it most of the credit was just simply kind of feeling better physically at the end of the year and kind of allowing me to go play golf and not worry about the other stuff.
Q. What is it about capitalizing on building your brand on Ryder Cup?  I looked at your social media numbers, and they're pretty desolate, for lack of a better word.  I know you're a ^ kind of an old-school guy, but do you see an opportunity here to maybe boost your brand?
RYAN MOORE: Yeah.  You know, I -- that's just not that important to me.  I know it's very important to a lot of people and maybe the rest of the world maybe a lot more than it is to me.  But I just -- the social media stuff is just not for me.  I just can't keep up with it.  I don't -- I try.  I mean I've honestly given it a couple efforts, and I just don't do it.  So I stopped even bothering trying.  I could probably build that up if I wanted to, but building up something that I'm not even really going to use doesn't seem like a good use of my time at this point.  I mean I understand what you're saying.  It's an opportune time.  I just had a good season, getting to be on the Ryder Cup team and be part of it and getting my name and face out there a little bit more.  But I personally think I have better stuff coming than what I've done even this year.  I think physically I can feel a lot better, move better and still play a lot better.  So that's still 100 percent of my focus is that, spending as much time and energy on how to get that stuff going forward.
Q. Do you think the other part of it may be being a husband and a father to your boys, destined to focus on the course rather than trying to get --
RYAN MOORE: Yeah.  I think that's a factor, for sure.  I mean that is a priority to me.  This game and playing it for a living takes up a lot of your life, a lot of your time.  So that extra time that I have I try and spend it trying to be a good husband, trying to be a good dad and be there for them as much as possible, which means not sitting on my phone messing around on Twitter and that kind of stuff.  I'm not trying to say by any means I'm perfect at that or anything.  But yeah, it would definitely be a distraction for me and that's just not something I'm willing to sacrifice.
Q. How are you holding up after Malaysia, China and you had to fly all the way back?
RYAN MOORE: It's a struggle, for sure.  I've never played the week after coming home from those two events.  I'm usually done and I just come home and get to sleep till noon every day or whatever.  It is a hard time change from there to here.  Here to there, no problem.  Coming back here, I struggle with it every single time.  I can't fall asleep at night, and I want to sleep in late.  Actually, waking up early this morning was probably good.  Having to get up and play in the pro am.  I thought about trying to belt it back and I thought in the end it's probably for me to get up and try and now be somewhat normal.  But I have felt absolutely terrible the last two days, I'm not going to lie to you.  And I felt kind of okay today.  So I'm hoping tomorrow we get to the okay range and then good maybe shortly after that.  But we play jet lagged quite a bit, and it generally doesn't affect my game too much one way or another.  At this point in the season I'm just exhausted, period, from the amount -- this will be 13 out of the last 16 weeks for me, which is way too much.  But I had to play a lot at the end of the year.  I took a lot of time off in the middle because my son was born.  So I played a lot at the end, but the Ryder Cup got thrown on top of that.  That ended up being nine out of ten weeks, ^ which I've never done in my life, and then I only had a short break because I was already planning on going overseas and playing.  So it just ended up being a lot of golf this season, and I'm ready for next Monday.  Let's just say that.  But I'd like to play a little bit of golf in between now and next Monday and finish it off right and have a good week.
Q. This being your last event, does that change your expectations at all or goals going into next season how you play at the end of the season?
RYAN MOORE: Not really, no.  I have like a meeting at the end of the year every year with my manager, with my caddie, with my coach.  We all kind of get together and hang out and kind of just go over -- reflect on this year, what we did good, what we did bad, what we did better, all that kind of stuff and plan on planning out next year, whether it's planning out the schedule, planning out just maybe how we can do things better.  And then we set some goals.  But for me looking forward, the biggest thing for me would be a multiple-win season.  I've won once, and I've been close to winning twice this year, but still, close.  I have never won twice in a year, and I think the physical side of things is what's going to change that.  I'm excited for this off season to actually get to train properly.  I've been doing a lot of stuff to make me feel better but we still haven't been able to like really get into it with what we need to do, and that will start on Monday.  And I'm really looking forward to that, because I know that's the difference between where I am now and where I really want to be and where I think I can be with my game as far as consistency and winning, and that's what I'm looking forward to the next -- not just next year but the next few seasons.
Q. To that point are you putting well enough right now to win this week?
RYAN MOORE: Yeah, absolutely.  I'm always putting well.  Maybe.  (Laughs).  Yeah.  I like where my putting has been.  These greens are perfect, and obviously I know these greens really well.  So I mean there's a bit of comfort just getting out and playing.  They're actually must faster than anything I've played on in a while, though, because the last two weeks were on the slower side.  So with that wind this morning and how fast they were, did I putt great today?  No, but that doesn't mean I'm going to putt poorly over the next few days.  I have a good feel with it and I feel going into this week with the putter.
THE MODERATOR: All right.  Anything else?  All right.  Ryan Moore, thank you for your time.
RYAN MOORE: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT