SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 11, 2006
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  I know you came out and played in the Pro Am last week at the Mercedes championships and you're here at the Sony Open in Hawaii.  Maybe just some opening comments, a little bit about your off season and your expectations going into this year, you had a great first short year on TOUR after turning professional last year in the Barclays Classic, but you've got to be pleased with how your game has progressed and looking forward to this year.
RYAN MOORE:  Yeah, I am, definitely looking forward to this year.  It's amazing how fast it's come around, and definitely didn't get quite as much of a break as I wanted to.  Ended up playing a few silly season events which were great and I enjoyed a lot.  I'm definitely looking forward to having a fuller year out here.

Last year felt so crammed in there, I had so little time to get done what I had to get done.  So to have a full year to really space things out and not have to play eight weeks in a row or whatever I ended up having to do last year, that will be very nice.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  How much of a break did you have as far as if you put your clubs away for two or three weeks or anything like that?
RYAN MOORE:  Made it almost three weeks without touching a club, or without playing.  I putted a couple of times against my dad.  He beat me both times, so I stopped doing that.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Nice to do that after playing so much after last fall, especially.
RYAN MOORE:  Right.  That's kind of what I needed.  Just to get refreshed mentally as much as physically.  I think definitely mentally, I'm mentally ready to go and play.  I can't wait for tomorrow.  It's amazing that tomorrow is already the first round.  But I can't wait for it.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  What's the early portion of your schedule looking like?
RYAN MOORE:  Obviously playing this week.  I'm not going to be playing next week.  I'm going to be playing at Torrey and Phoenix, and Pebble and the Nissan.  Then I'll take Tucson off, I believe, and probably play at least three out of the four in Florida before going to Augusta.  So I'm going to take the week off before Augusta for sure and just kind of spend some time and relax and practice and get refreshed before the major a major.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Obviously depending on where you fall in some of the World Ranking events, that will obviously affect your schedule as well, I guess.
RYAN MOORE:  Absolutely.  If I play great here early, I might get myself into The Match Play, of course, I'd play, I love match play.  That would be great.  That's kind of my goal here early in the season is to go out and have some good finishes and get myself at least a good shot of getting into that.  I have a ways to climb, but it's possible.
Q.  Are you in Augusta based on your finish last year?
RYAN MOORE:  I finished 13th, tied for 13th.
Q.  Who do you like to win this year at the Masters?
RYAN MOORE:  Who do I like to win?
Q.  Who do you predict will win?
RYAN MOORE:  I definitely don't know if I can answer that without getting myself in trouble.
Q.  Why?
RYAN MOORE:  Well, of course I want myself.  I don't know why I would ever say that anybody else could win.  I want to be believing 100% that I'm going to be winning.  That's how I think, that's how I work, I'm believing 100% that I'm going in there with a good chance and that's what I'm there for.
Q.  Is he eligible for Rookie of the Year this year?
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Yes, I believe so.
RYAN MOORE:  I wasn't a member last year at all.  I wasn't a full time member.
Q.  Are you a good wind player?
RYAN MOORE:  I love wind.  It's nice.  A golf course like this can play pretty tough.  It's a nice, straightforward golf course, and you throw that wind out there and it makes everything really interesting, with the doglegs and everything, trying to keep it without going through the fairway and stuff like that, it makes it a good test of golf for sure.
Q.  Michelle was saying that she was into the wind on every hole.  Was it swirling around, was it hard to figure out where it was coming from?
RYAN MOORE:  I just think the way they built the course, just kind of you don't get very many holes downwind from what I've noticed.  With the wind the way it's been the last few days, I mean, there's maybe been two or three shots almost seems like the whole round where you actually get it downwind.  One of them is 18, it plays downwind.  That's about the only hole that really goes that direction, maybe 17, also.
Q.  What did you hit into 18?
RYAN MOORE:  Long iron, maybe 5 iron, 4 iron, something like that.  It doesn't play too long.
Q.  When was your first time playing the course?
RYAN MOORE:  Monday morning I came out and played first thing in the morning.  So I got to see it, and I played nine yesterday, hit a few balls and practice today, tee it off at 8:20 tomorrow.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT