FUNAI GOLF CLASSIC AT WALT DISNEY WORLD RESORT
October 18, 2005
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  (Inaudible.)

RYAN MOORE:  I was fortunate to make the cut on the number, I think about four or five times.  Until last week I think I made the cut on the line, except for maybe Canada.  That has been taking it one stroke at a time, being patient and not getting too far ahead of myself, or too frustrated or being too careless at an time and making sure every shot mattered out there.  I've been making money.  That is what I need to do.    

Q.  (Inaudible.)

RYAN MOORE:  I have played two tournaments on this course.  The Polo AGJA used to be here and I played it when I was 16 and 17.  At least I know them pretty well.  I haven't played them in five or six years.  I kind of have a good understanding of the course.  It is not brand new for me.  Every other course has been.  It is kind of tough that I have been using a caddie that doesn't know the golf course.  I have had my brothers caddying for me, a couple of buddies caddying for me.  I didn't really stick with anybody this year.    That is something I am working on.  I need to get somebody that is going to be there all year next year.  It can be tough because I don't always get to be working on my swing.  I am trying to figure out the golf course.  I don't get to work on all the stuff I should be working on.  Getting to play a few weeks on Tour, I am getting to work on that stuff and scores are starting to show that.  

Q.  It is your brother this week? 

RYAN MOORE:  Yes.  My older brother, Jeremy.  

Q.  Do you find it difficult to not look at where you stand after every round or after every tournament?  If you don't do that, how do you just focus on the tournament? 

RYAN MOORE:  It is tough sometimes.  It matters so much at this point.  Every tournament means so much.  Every tournament means I can get it done with that one tournament.  I came really close.  I think I was one shot away from getting it all done last week.  I probably looked at it about six times in the final round there.  I am just trying to not worry about that other stuff.  There are some things I can't control.  All I can do it go out and play the best that I can.  That is all I am trying to do.  

Q. (Inaudible.)  Are there any golf courses that you play, you say that you remember this golf course.  Do you every forget something like that?  

RYAN MOORE:  If you play a golf course once or twice, especially if it is during a tournament, it is pretty much locked in my head for a long time.  You are so focused out there and you concentrate so much.  There are probably a couple of whole on this course I don't remember.  

Q.  They don't all start looking alike? 

RYAN MOORE:  No.  Not really.  Sometimes. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)

RYAN MOORE:    I was a medalist one year when I was 16.  And I lost the second, maybe third round of match play that next year.  I made the cut again.  I know I didn't play one match on the Magnolia course.  That's all I remember.  (Inaudible.)

Q.  (Inaudible.) in terms of playing for money when every dollar counts.  

RYAN MOORE:  Obviously, it is frustrating.  I really didn't even hit a bad shot on that hole.  I made a heck of a putt for a nine.  It was a really bad putt to read, putting towards the water.  I could have easily run ten feet past and had a really tough putt for a ten.  I was pretty determined not to make a double digit number.  The guy in front of me made a 16 on that whole doing the exact same thing.  You just put it in a wrong spot.  I thought I laid it up in a good spot.  I thought I hit a good third shot.  The wind got it more than I thought it would.  I thought I hit it harder than I hit it.  The ball went straight up in the air.  The second shot I hit right in the middle of the green.  I don't know what else I was supposed to do.    It rolled 40 feet back into the water.  It even stopped at one point.  When I got up there, it started rolling again.  Some things are out of my control.  Obviously, it hurt.  Without that one hole, I could have finished fourth or fifth, or whatever it might be.  I can't really think about that.  

Q.  (Inaudible.)

RYAN MOORE:  I've gotten a lot of good breaks.  Like I said, I've made the cut on the number four or five times.  That has been big.  I have been able to capitalize on the weekends a couple of times and moved my way up.  It is going to happen.  (Inaudible.)  Obviously, it happens.  

Q.  (Inaudible.)  It is intimidating to try to get your card in that number of starts or is it a challenge you look forward to? 

RYAN MOORE:  I was looking forward to it.  I love a challenge.  I get excited about it.  I like that fact that a lot of people don't think it is possible.  That is fine with me.  I want to go out there and, not necessarily prove everybody wrong, but to go and do something that not many other people have done.  It gets me a little more fired up and a little more determined to do so, but at the same time, I don't think about it.  I'm not worried about being the fifth person, or the 12th person, or whatever.  I am just trying to go out there and do whatever the heck I can to do it, whatever that might take.  Fortuanetly, I have gotten into a couple of these events at the end of the year here, this one and I'm in Tampa next weekend.  I am getting some good opportunities to get it done.  

Q.  Do you feel pretty confident?  

RYAN MOORE:  Yes.  I don't see any reason why not to.  I keep playing better and better every week I play.  I am getting a little more comfortable with my swing.  I am hitting the ball good.  I have had some things that have been bothering me and I am feeling a little better right now.  I'm not worried about technique as much and I am playing some courses that I know and I have done well on in the next few weeks.  

Q.   Presumably you are doing this so you don't have to go to Q-school which of course nobody wants to do.  What is the most horrifying thing you have seen in Q-school that you are hoping you don't have to endure yourself?  

RYAN MOORE:  I've seen the ball pop out of the hole.  That is about the worst thing I have ever seen.  (Inaudible.)  I was never really trying to avoid Q-school.  I thought if I didn't make it out here I would have to go there and get it done.  There are other ways.  I was never afraid of that.  I was never worried about that.  I felt like I was fortunate enough to have the opportunity to get it done this way.  If I couldn't do it this way.  It is not necessarily easier to get it done this way.  You still have to come out and play some really good golf.  You can tell my the number of people that have done it this way.  It is not easier than Q-school.  It definitely is tough and is something I didn't want to do if I didn't have to.  Being in the position I am in now, being in the top 125 to 150 range no matter what, that is going to get me a good number of starts.  Even if it stops right now, I don't think I would even go to the final stage.  I have talked to the PGA Tour guys who have said I will get at least 20 to 22 events, something like that without a sponsor exemption.  (Inaudible.)  Even between 126 and 150 get spots.  Right now, I think it is like 120.  

Q. How do you describe your swing?

RYAN MOORE:  I love it.  It is my swing.  No one can take that away from me.  It is something that fits me.  It works for me.  I am 100 percent confident.  I see absolutely no reason to change it.  

Q.  (Inaudible.)

RYAN MOORE:  I have always been a little different.  I always will be.  I do it a little differently.  I think a little differently than most people do.  I didn't read one putt last week.  I don't take specific points and say, alright a foot left, two feet left, ball left.  I don't putt that way.  I look at it.  I kind of know whether it is left or right.  I know where I am looking and I go and hit it.  I feel it.  There is no such thing as a perfect place to hit a putt.  You can hit a putt in five different places and have it go in.  You can hit it in the perfect place at the wrong speed and it will never go in.  Maybe I am crazy.

Q.  (Inaudible.)

RYAN MOORE:  I still don't really pick specifics.  I am looking at a spot that I want to hit, but I am not saying I need to hit four feet right or two cups or two balls.  I don't think of it that way.  

Q.  Until the bell rings, you aren't exactly sure about how you are going to match up with these guys.  Did anything surprise you as to their skill level or do you have any doubt about your own skill level?  

RYAN MOORE:   I have never really had any doubts about my skill level - what I was physically capable of or mentally capable of.  I have played a lot of good golf on a lot of good golf courses over the years and have won a lot of tournaments.  It doesn't matter what level you are at.  Winning golf tournaments is pretty much the same thing.  You have to play well, but also you have to think well.  I think that is something over the years I have gotten better and better at.  Nothing really has jumped out and surprised me too much.  Some of the cuts we have been in have been pretty unbelievable.  Some of the other courses had very calm conditions.  At some of them a 68 or 70 would have missed the cut.  That is brutal.  I don't really try to worry about that stuff.  

Q.  (Inaudible.)

RYAN MOORE:  My first pro-am.  They wouldn't allow me to play in college.  It was disappointing.  I always wanted to play.  It was fun, getting to play for my first time.  It was a course I hadn't played a lot.  They weren't courses I play all the time.  

Q.  You could have played Bay Hill, but it would have counted against your tournament ...

RYAN MOORE:  I got invited to Bay Hill.  I got invited to Memorial, Byron Nelson, there were one or two others.  Colonial might have been another one.  There were some great tournament early in the year.  It kind of hurts to have to turn stuff like that down, but at that point in time it is not worth it because it is going to count against me just like the U.S. Open.  They count against one of your 12 tournaments.  You don't get any credit in the world rankings.  Needless to say it wasn't worth it even though those are tournaments I would love to play in.  Hopefully, I will get my chance next year.  

Q. (Inaudible.)

RYAN MOORE:  Every week out there has been so different for me.  It has been up and down a lot.  At Canada, I scraped it around the golf course.  I did not hit the ball.  I either hit a great shot or a horrible shot.  (Inaudible.)  It was one of those weeks where it was great or it was bad.  My putter was phenomenal.  I averaged less than 26 putts for the week.  I definitely had a few good rounds.  Even that 63 last week was a weird round.  I don't know how I shot 63. I felt like I shot about 70, but I just happened to make a few putts.  I was hitting a lot of shots I wasn't trying to hit, but they would go right next to the hole.  It was one of those days that was working for me.  I haven't felt like I have complete control of my game like I have in the past where I was really controlling that ball like I wanted to or where my putting was consistent.  I have been a little more up and down.  A little more inconsistent that I like to be, but fortuanetly I have had a good chance to come out and shoot some good scores.     

Q.  (Inaudible.) playing Tampa.

RYAN MOORE:  They told me yesterday that I am in unless I do really well this week so that I guarantee myself and then I won't have to play there.  To do that, I would probably have to take a top-10 to get me in there.  I am pretty much in there from what I figure.  (Inaudible.)  If I play good, but not great I'll still be in there.  


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT