BELL CANADIAN OPEN
September 11, 2005
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOE CHEMYCZ:  We welcome Ryan Moore to the interview area, an even par round of 70 today.  A couple of notes on Ryan for the week:  T 61 in fairways hit, T 62 in greens in regulation, but T 2 in putting.  Maybe just talk about your week and the success you had here.
RYAN MOORE:  Yeah, the stats kind of explain my whole week.  I couldn't find a fairway or a green, but fortunately made every 20 footer for par you could imagine.

Yeah, it was a great week for me.  I love this area up here.  Obviously it's close to home for me.  I was living in the Seattle area, or growing up in the Seattle area.  It really did feel like home up here.  I've had a great response from the crud out there.  It was fun; enjoyed it.
Q.  Did you think 70 would be good enough to hold your position on the leaderboard today?  And did it play that much tougher today, or was it just a Sunday in a tournament?
RYAN MOORE:  Well, it was a Sunday, and obviously a golf course, if we keep getting weather like this, kind of firm up the longer you go on in the week.  And with greens this small, getting them that firm, it got really tougher there on the back side to get it anywhere near the hole and actually have maybe a sand wedge or lob wedge.  Even on 16, I had a lob wedge in and caromed all the way to the back edge of the green, and I hit it as high and as soft as I could.

It was playing very difficult out there.  It's just a tough golf course.  It's a great test.  Have to keep it in the fairway and have to hit it on the green, which somehow I managed to not do either of those, and still finished kind of high.  But I guess the putting might have had something to do with it.
Q.  Did you think you needed to do better than 70?
RYAN MOORE:  You know my goal was to get to 8 ( under) at the beginning of the day.  I thought 8 would have been a really good number.  Obviously it would have been.

But I really thought that would be a good score out here to get and I think Ben shot 4 under today, so that was possible.  There were those scores out there.  Just had to get it done.  Unfortunately I made a couple too many bogeys and missed a couple really good opportunities for birdie.  You know, that's golf.  I'll take it.
Q.  Everybody has been talking about how you guys liked the golf course this week, but by the end of the week does the rough start to eat you up and wear you down to where you would be happy for a few days not to see any rough like that?
RYAN MOORE:  Yeah, I really don't want to play on any rough like this any time soon.  I'm sure next week will be something, probably not this bad.  Fortunately it didn't wear me down because I felt like it was in it every single hole.  You know, I was really proud of myself how patient I was out there because I definitely did not have my best game.  I wasn't striking it, I wasn't hitting every fairway or right in the middle of every green.  I can't even remember, I must have missed eight greens from dead center in the fairway.  Finally I hit a fairway, and I would yank is over into the rough again, and it's like, geez, you know.

I was proud of myself for just fighting it out and knowing that it was going to be a tough week and that it was going to be hard and that pars were not going to hurt; and you even a bogey now and again on a course like this isn't going to hurt you, you just keep moving on.
Q.  What were you thinking on your shot on 18?
RYAN MOORE:  I was thinking, if I make this, I might have a chance of winning.  I hit a 5 iron, I was 208    no, 202 to the pin, is what it was.  It was a five I've, I was trying to hit it 190 and get it on the middle of the green, I remember it really swings down there and I wanted to get myself a good putt.   I knew the left side of the green it would just run right off there.  I obviously wanted to make a birdie.  I knew Ben was in at 4 under, and that, you know, the higher up, the better for me.  And it looked like it make a big difference, that one shot, just on my play for rest of the year, or for the rest of the year and how many tournaments I'm going to be able to get in.

So I'm definitely happy with it.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Your plans are to play next week?
RYAN MOORE:  Absolutely.  I'll be flying out tomorrow afternoon.
Q.  Can you just talk for a minute about rooming with J.C. Deacon at UNLV?  You guys are pretty good buddies, and watching his play in the U.S. Amateur?
RYAN MOORE:  Unfortunately, no, I wasn't.  I had no idea what was going on until I got home.  I was in Mexico that week and had my cell phone turned off and wasn't even checking the computer or doing anything.  I had no clue until I got home.  So obviously first thing when I got home, I called him, because it was awesome playing.  We are good friends.  He called me every night I think this week, told me obviously he wishes he was here to be able to win his nation's championship, and it looks like he was close to getting in here.

But he's a great player and got a lot of talent and got nowhere but up to go.
Q.  I talked to you during the practice round on Tuesday and we talked about how similar these greens are to the greens you grew up on down Tacoma.  Were you thinking that?  You putted pretty good out there.
RYAN MOORE:  I was comfortable.  I was comfortable with the speed.  My brother and I, we're really working hard on just making a lot of short putts, and that's, you know, what I put my best    on the putting green, that's all I really work on is 3  to 5 putters, and that's about it.  I don't work a lot on 15 footers.  First thing every day when I go out to the putting green we do a circle all the way around the hole hitting 3 footers to 5 footers and just got real solid on those.  Once you get comfortable making 5 foot putts and under, it makes everything else kind of a lot easier because you don't have to worry about speed as much because you feel like you're going to make those.  Obviously they are very similar to what I grew up on around the Seattle area.  I just    I don't know, I don't know what it was about them, but I loved them.  So they are great greens.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Ryan, congratulations on a good week.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT