BELL CANADIAN OPEN
September 10, 2005
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  You bogeyed 18, a little disappointing, but otherwise a pretty good round?
RYAN MOORE:  Yeah, it was a solid round and I made some really good up and downs.  Was even fortunate enough to get a good break there, I was right next to a tree and had a decently open shot and still had a good look for par, just didn't make it.  To make a bogey isn't what I had in mind.

Q.  To be in the hunt, this is what you've been waiting for after the Amateur success.
RYAN MOORE:  I am really excited.  It's fun just being right there.  My goal always going into any tournament is to give myself a chance to win going into the final round.  I finally put myself in that position, whether I'm going to be two back, one back or four or five back, who knows how I was going to end up today.  But I feel like in this golf course, I'm in a position that I have a good chance to win tomorrow if I go out and play my own game and get the job done.

Q.  Do you have a decent crew out from Seattle?
RYAN MOORE:  Yeah, they keep coming up slowly and surely.  The better I play, a few more pop up and they keep coming up.  I think pretty much all of my immediate family and I guess my mom and my sister are coming up tomorrow to watch, too.  It's been great and being close to home, it feels like home for me.  The golf course is similar, the grasses, everything, so I've definitely enjoyed it.

Q.  Does that helps are playing a course that feels like home?
RYAN MOORE:  It doesn't hurt, where I grew up for 18 years and still spend quite a bit of time there now.  It always a nice feeling.  It's never a bad feeling.

Q.  You talk about putting yourself on position to win, but a course that's been challenging
RYAN MOORE:  This is my favorite kind of golf course really.  Just one of those you have to be really patient out there.  You have to wait for it to happen and can't force things and do the best you can.  Hit as many fairways and greens as you can and if you don't, just move on.  Again, of course, I enjoy it a lot.

It's challenging, it's fun.  Hopefully I saved some patience tomorrow after the last couple of days because I've been missing a whole lot of fairways and greens so far.  Just save it up for tomorrow and be real patient and just play my own game.

Q.  Have you played golf here before?
RYAN MOORE:  I've played one tournament, Kapalana (ph) I think it is, I don't know, maybe 30 minutes or so.
Q.  That was two years    inaudible?
RYAN MOORE:  I don't remember.
Q.  Real nice response walking up 18, do you think the crowd knows you from Seattle and it felt like a hometown response?
RYAN MOORE:  It's great, I really enjoyed that, whether it's that or, you know, obviously the underdog here.  Maybe just trying to cheer me on.  That was good.  I've enjoyed the crowds getting louder and louder all day long and I feed off of that.  I love it.
Q.  When you're in Seattle do they compare you to Freddie Couples?  Are you the new Freddie Couples?
RYAN MOORE:  I have no idea.  Possibly.  There's a chance.  I've heard the comparison before    inaudible.  I'm from Puyallup, actually, south of the Seattle area.  I haven't been there in like five years.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT