CIALIS WESTERN OPEN
June 28, 2005
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
Tell us how it was playing today since you went out and saw it today and got a few holes in.
RYAN MOORE:  I went and played the first nine today, so I haven't seen it all, but it's a great golf course.  I felt like I can play it.
Q.  (Inaudible).
RYAN MOORE:  It's a pretty tough decision.  Every golfer dreams of playing the British Open at St. Andrews, so turning that down was pretty tough.  But I just felt like it wasn't the right time for me.  There are a couple events that I can get in right away, and my priority is to get out there and get my Tour card.
Q.  They said they weren't going to lower the rough more than three inches, but the people I talked to out there said the rough was pretty deep.  How is the course going to be?  Is it pretty firm out there?
RYAN MOORE:  Yeah, it's pretty firm.  The rough is pretty thick.  I wasn't really chopping it out.  I've been chopping it out the last couple of weeks so I didn't want to wear myself out today.  It seemed like it was pretty thick out there.  The course is fair, the greens are fair.
Q.  How set is your schedule at this point, and also, will you continue to do like you did this week, try and Monday qualify at the tournaments you already have an exemption?
RYAN MOORE:  Yeah, as long as I can, as long as I can give myself enough time, I don't see why not.  Every extra spot, if I can play eight, ten, twelve tournaments could make a difference between getting my spot.  It's a bit tiring after a while, but it could be definitely worth it.  I played today, and it was 92 yesterday    (inaudible)    putts coming down the line I think are going to be right there.

As far as my schedule from here on out, still it all really depends on this tournament.  If I play well here and earn my spot into the British Open, I'm probably going to head over that way, otherwise I'll go over and play the BC Open, Milwaukee.  It all depends on this week.  After this point on, I'll have a much more set schedule and I'll know better where I'll be.
Q.  Can you just talk about what it's like to be out here?
RYAN MOORE:  Yeah, I've enjoyed it.  They're all great guys, and I've enjoyed being around them.  I've been around them watching them all on TV for the last ten years or so.  They've been great, making me feel like I belong out here.  I don't feel uncomfortable here out.  It's just another golf tournament.

I played with guys like Kirk Triplett today, kind of went out of his way a little bit to kind of join up with me and play nine holes and just offering advice.
Q.  What kind of advice?
RYAN MOORE:  Just a little of this, a little of that.  Just general if I sort of have questions.
Q.  When do you feel like you belong, after you make your first cut?  When do you feel like you belong?
RYAN MOORE:  I have felt like I belonged every event that I've ever been in.  I even started felt like that at the first two professional events I qualified for, first one was the U.S. Open, I still never felt like I can't play with these guys.  I feel like if I play good, I can compete.  It's gotten better and better since then.  I earned my spot just like everybody else.  I deserve to be here, and I know if I go out and play my best that I'll be right there.
Q.  How did playing in the Walker Cup    (inaudible).
RYAN MOORE:  That was really big.  If I hadn't made it in 2003, I think it might have been a tougher decision this year.  But I had made it and I had a good time.  It's always an honor and a privilege to represent your country and play for the U.S., so I had a blast doing that.  Unfortunately we didn't do very well.  Actually I didn't do very well.  I was on two Palmer Cups, which is very similar, and we lost both of those I was on, so I figure they'd probably be better off without me this year because I seem to be holding them back.  They finally won the Palmer Cup this year and I wasn't on the team, so I was like, "I think you guys can handle it without me."
Q.  (Inaudible).
RYAN MOORE:  They've got great players over there just like we've got over here.  A lot of them play college golf.  I think it's not hurting them, I don't think at all.

The programs over here are awesome.  Practically every University just gives you the privileges now to go out and play and practice and do whatever you need to do.  I think it's definitely not hurting them.  There's great players everywhere you go.  If you take the top players from over there against the top players over here, it's going to be pretty close, always, because they're the best in their area.  It's always going to be    those matches are just    it's match play.  You just don't know.  You know, you're playing two balls and alternate shots and stuff like that.  It's tough, I guess, sometimes, and it's something that they've generally done a little more than us and practiced a little more than us.

I think we're going to have a good shot with the team this year, it's going to be a really good team, so I look to us to have a good chance at pulling this one off.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Ryan, thanks.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT