BARCLAYS CLASSIC
June 25, 2005
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
RYAN MOORE:  I hit some good shots there at the end and to finish that way is always nice.
Q.  You started that stretch run with one heck of a bogey.   What went on in a five minute discussion after it hit the grandstand?
RYAN MOORE:  It hit the grandstand and bounced like 50 yards back and was way over there.  It was right behind those port a potty things, some tents in my way, so I was just trying it figure out where I could take the lead from.  I couldn't get it over the tree but I couldn't hit it on the green if I tried.  So start moving this and that and I was finally just like, "whatever."  I was just going to have to drop underneath the tree and wouldn't get on the green anyways.  Just knock it up there and hit it in the worst place I could and was able to salvage and get it up there to about ten feet or so.

I've had more good bogeys in the last couple of weeks than I think I ever have in my entire life.  I'm making 10 footers for bogeys like it's my job and it's not my job.  I need to be making 10 footers for birdie.  It was great to salvage that and birdie the last hole, that's a nice way to go out at least.
Q.  What's your evaluation turning professional?
RYAN MOORE:  I didn't obviously perform up to how I feel I could have.  I'm still not controlling the golf ball that well.  I feel like today I was closer than I was yesterday or the day before.  I definitely think I'm moving in the right direction, the next couple of days and go on to the next one and I think I'll be ready to go.
Q.  What were some of the things that are customary to the PGA TOUR life that maybe you were not    like anywhere from getting your bag inspected to signing golf balls on every tee, some things you learned that maybe you didn't know, just little details that maybe you never had to deal with as an amateur.
RYAN MOORE:  I don't know, I've been through it before, I've been through the process so many times, nothing really was like new or crazy to me.  If I see something down the road I'll tell you.

You know, I was    just to make the cut and I'm not playing my best and still grinding it out, who knows, it could make the difference getting to that 150 spot and beyond, every little thing.  I'm just happy that I grounded out as hard as I did and still made a check this week and now moving forward now to go win again.
Q.  Is something going to hit you when you look at your checking balance, $14,000 in there?
RYAN MOORE:  It will be a bit of a surprise.  I don't know that I've ever had more than $800 or $900 every single time.  The bank is probably going to call me and say, hey, what's going on, there's unusual activity in your account, would you please confirm, are you selling drugs now or something.  No, it will be a surprise, definitely.  Hopefully the bank doesn't track me down for doing something illegal all of a sudden.
Q.  You talked about in the past    and you talked about this earlier, you were not having fun and you learned to have fun again, yesterday it didn't look like you were having fun.  Did you have the thought, this is just golf and let's go out and have fun?  You have two playing partners that were pretty chatty; it seemed to settle you.
RYAN MOORE:  Yeah, a little bit more.  I'm still fighting it and it's hard to be fighting yourself.  That's the hardest thing.  I still feel like I am kind of fighting myself.  You know, for a long stretch there, I didn't get in my own way in a sense.  I wasn't beating myself.

Right now I still feel like I'm beating myself a little bit, which is obviously not producing my best golf scores.  For 18 months I never shot worse than 73, and in the last few months I've probably shot six or seven shots    and there's rounds worse than 73, not much worse, but still.  I'm still trying to get back to where my bad round is even par and 1  or 2 under again.  Obviously this is a tough golf course and if you're missing it a little bit, you pay the price, and I missed it a lot, so I definitely paid the price.  I just need to start hitting it straight.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT