CIMB CLASSIC
October 19, 2016
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CHUAH CHOO CHIANG: We have Ryan Moore in with us here at the CIMB Classic.  You holed the winning putt in The Ryder Cup a few weeks ago.  You must be delighted to be back at TPC KL.
RYAN MOORE: Yeah, I am.  I look forward to this event obviously every single year.  It's treated me really well.  I think I only missed it one year in all the years since it's been around and that's only because my son was born.  It's an event I love.  I love coming to KL.  It's just a week I enjoy.
CHUAH CHOO CHIANG: You're just coming off the course from the Pro-Am.  How is the golf course looking compared to previous years?
RYAN MOORE: I would call it very similar to last year where there's not as much rough.  So you can get away with missing a few fairways.  But it's in great condition.  Probably the best the greens have been in the years we've been here.  Just really healthy and really, really smooth.
CHUAH CHOO CHIANG: The Ryder Cup, the winning moment, how was that experience, not just the singles day but throughout the week.
RYAN MOORE: It's like nothing else in golf that I've ever experienced.  It was an incredible week.  It's just so different than what we do every single week on TOUR.  We get to play with teammates and go out there -- it was just fun.
It was a really fun environment to play in.  I was fortunate to be the person to get that final point, to get the clinching point for the U.S.  That's something I'll have the rest of my life.
Q. Your thoughts on playing the Pro-Am?
RYAN MOORE: In general or today?
Q. In general.
RYAN MOORE: It's part of our week.  I think it's so unique to golf because it's not very often -- you can't go out on a football field and play football with players.  You can't go on a basketball court.  So for guys to kind of get inside the ropes with us and walk around and hit shots and play the course with us, it's a unique thing that golf that I think is great.
Yeah, there's days where it can get long and drag out a little bit, but I get to play with different people that I've enjoyed playing with over the years.  I've actually gotten some friendships and great relationships from them.
Q. Do you have a cough or something?
RYAN MOORE: I do.  I've had it for a little while.  Basically if my four-year-old son gets sick, I get sick.  He gets me every time.
It's not too bad, I don't know what it is, but it's just a little cough.  It's nothing.  I've had this for like a week, so hopefully it's on the side of getting a little bit better.
Q. One of the problems of golf today is it takes a lot of time.  Do you have any views on ways and means of making it perhaps shorter, in general terms.  For example, the Pro-Am.
RYAN MOORE: No, I don't have any good solutions.  Like what we did today, being a shamble, I think that helps, all the guys coming from one spot in the fairway which helps.
I don't have any real good ideas for -- I mean, it's a long day.  I mean, that's just kind of how golf works.
CHUAH CHOO CHIANG: What is it about TPC KL that suits your game?
RYAN MOORE: Well, personally I like it a little better when there's a little more rough.  It's a little more punishing for the guys who hit it a little bit further and who don't hit it in the fairway as often as me.
It's a course I'm very comfortable on.  I like a lot of the tee shots.  I tend to putt well on these greens.  I read them well and been able to make a lot of putts over the last few years, so I hope that continues obviously.
But like last year, the scoring was quite a bit lower and that was basically just because there wasn't any rough.  So you weren't getting punished on par 5s.  When you missed a fairway, you would have to lay up with a sand wedge or pitching wedge and you could still get on or around green with a long iron or hybrid.  That's where the difference in scoring happened last year.
So it looks like it's going to be, again, very similar to that so we'll probably see a little better scoring again this year.
Q. What is the game plan this year then?
RYAN MOORE: Make birdies.  Obviously we saw last year, so I shot 14-under in the first year I won here and then I shot 17-under the next year to win by three, and then I shot 17-under last year to lose by nine.
So that's a really big difference and the rough is that difference.  I mean, it was really long and really difficult to hit out of those first two years.  In the last couple, it's just not punishing.
So you can still make birdies when you miss fairways.  That's the goal.  I think last year I played -- I felt pretty good but there were a lot of other guys that took advantage of the par 5s and just scored a little better than me.  Just got to go out and make some birdies.
Q. You played some of your best golf in the last year; what does that do for your confidence after The Ryder Cup coming here to an event you've won twice?
RYAN MOORE: It's huge.  Golf is all about confidence and the better you play, you just keep getting more and more of it.
You know, I had a nice break.  I had played a lot of golf in that stretch.  I played nine out of ten weeks, including The Ryder Cup.  So to have a nice break, kind of get to sit back and reflect on that, that 2 1/2 months or so of good golf and figure out maybe why it was happening, and figure out ways of how to continue it.
But yeah, it improves your confidence a lot.  It makes you feel good, and especially coming to a course that I've had success on and I feel good on to begin with.  I like where my game is trending.  I've been saying that for awhile.  I've been working with a new trainer.  I've had some things hurting for the last few years and those things are not hurting as much anymore.  I've almost gone to the point where we can start building on it and getting stronger and moving better.
It's amazing, you just don't give those things that much credit sometimes.  I had an ankle that hurt for quite a while and it was to the point where I almost forgot about it because it hurt so much, just constantly.  And to have that not hurting and be able to move a little bit better through the golf ball, it's amazing how much confidence that gives you, just being able to go play and not have your mind worried about that nagging all the time.
I like where I'm going with my game.  I think I'm excited for these -- I'm playing this week and next week and the week after this in Vegas to finish off my season and I'm going to have some good, quality time off that I'm really looking forward to help even further those things that I've been working on.  I'm even more excited for next year already at just how much better I've felt the last few months.
Q. What would you like to do off the golf course?
RYAN MOORE: Here?
Q. Anywhere.
RYAN MOORE: Anywhere.  Well, I have a four-year-old son, so most of my time off the golf course is spent playing with him, which includes a lot of action figures and superheros and that kind of stuff.  He gets to tell me what super hero I'm being that day, whether it's Ironman or Black Panther or all these different ones.  He gets to beat me up.  That's what I do most of the time off the golf course.
CHUAH CHOO CHIANG: Which superhero would you like to be?
RYAN MOORE: Oh, man, that's a tough choice because I watch all those movies.  Ironman would be tough to beat.  I think I would probably stick with him.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT