CHRYSLER CLASSIC OF GREENSBORO
October 15, 2004
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  If you were a professional you would be in for a nice paycheck now.
RYAN MOORE:  Oh, yeah.  But I'm not.  So.  Anything?
Q.  You played good today.
RYAN MOORE:  Yeah.  Yeah.  I'm happy with how I played and how I hit the ball for the last two days.  Didn't hit the ball very well on the last hole there, but I just controlled the ball all the  way around and just gave myself a lot of very good opportunities.

Unfortunately, I wasn't able to capitalize on half of them today or yesterday for that matter.  So I hope I can just keep that going for weekend.  Just keep hitting the ball how I am and just start making a few more putts.
Q.  Do you feel comfortable out there?  Obviously it's a little bit of a different comfort zone than amateur golf, college golf, but you're obviously playing well, do you feel comfortable?
RYAN MOORE:  It's just a round of golf.  To me that's how I keep it.  And that's how I've played my whole life.  That's how I have to keep it.  I'm comfortable out there.  It's just a shot's a shot.  So I'm just keeping it that way and I'm hitting it well, so no reason not to play well.
Q.  As far as any one can tell, and the records go back to 1970, you've got the best 36 hole score in this tournament ever by an amateur.  At least as far as we know.  How do you feel about that?
RYAN MOORE:  Well, that's great.  Sure.  I'll take it.  That's not exactly what I was out here to do, I'm just out here to play as well as I possibly can and if that happens to break records, then great.  I'll take that.
Q.  A question about the course setup compared to like the typical college event or maybe the NCAA's or the U.S. Am.  How are these courses set up, as far as hole locations, green speed, etcetera.
RYAN MOORE:  Not all that different.  Comparatively, to -- I mean obviously the U.S. Am was at Winged Foot so it was probably a bit tougher.  I mean just the golf course itself was brutal.  But as far as college events, you know, it's -- I don't know.  I don't really pay attention to that kind of stuff, to be honest.
Q.  Just go hit it and find it?
RYAN MOORE:  I just look at where the pin is and hit it.  I look at where the fairway is and hit it there.  That's all I do.  I don't really think about how hard the course is and all that stuff.  I really don't even think about it.  So.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT