CHRYSLER CLASSIC OF GREENSBORO
October 14, 2004
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CHRIS REIMER:  Joined by Ryan Moore, solid 4-under today.  Got to be pretty happy with that for your first round, I would think.
RYAN MOORE:  Yeah, definitely.  I went out there and just tried to play a solid round today.  And that's kind of what I did.  I hit the ball really well and where I hit the ball today that's probably the worst I could have scored.  So that's encouraging.  Putting the golf ball in good position all the way around and give myself a lot of looks at birdies and hopefully I can get a few more to fall tomorrow.
CHRIS REIMER:  Take some questions for Ryan.
Q.  Did you look at the leaderboard at all?
RYAN MOORE:  Kind of hard to miss, but, yeah, I saw my name up there a couple times, so it was kind of -- it's fun to see.  Something I'm not used to, but I like it.
Q.  Is this what you expected?  To come out here and play like this?
RYAN MOORE:  Yeah, I don't see why not.  Just another round of golf.  I just took the same approach that I've been taking every round I've played for the last year.  And that's just go out there and have fun.  Play one shot at a time.  And that's what I was able to do today.  Didn't get caught up in the fact that this is a bigger event or anything like that, I just played.  That's what made me able to shoot the round today.  I hope I can keep that mindset the next three days.
Q.  Nervous at all going off today?
RYAN MOORE:  No.  Not really.  I don't really get very nervous about very many things.  There's always that little bit of butterflies on the first tee, but I have that every round I play, so it's nothing outside of that ordinary for me.
Q.  Did you find that the players know who you were?
RYAN MOORE:  I don't know.  A little bit here and there, I guess.  I don't think hardly any of them would recognize me.  Or have recognized me for that matter.  I knew a couple guys from before.  They introduced me to other more guys and so I got to know quite a few of them.  They have all been very nice to me so far.  So it's been great.
Q.  Considering this is probably a first taste of your future, how has it been?
RYAN MOORE:  It's been great so far.  I've played a couple of Majors already, so I kind of had the feel of a pro tournament, which I think has really helped me coming into this tournament.  Just to see how things work out here compared to college or amateur events.  But this has been great.  I've enjoyed it and the week's been a lot of fun so far.  Honestly it's probably more relaxing than any tournament I played in a long time.  I don't have to travel as a team and just get to go back home and relax every afternoon.  It's been great.  I actually got some rest while I've been here.  So it's nice for me.
Q.  Do you have plans to play in other events?
RYAN MOORE:  No.  As far as I know this will be my only just Regular TOUR event because starting next year I wouldn't want to use any of my 7 exemptions until after I turn pro, which will be I will be amateur all the way through the British Open.  So.
Q.  Do you think that you're staying so close do you think that helps waking up a coming over here?
RYAN MOORE:  It's been great.  Yeah, to stay around the golf course.  I don't even drive my car over, I just walk over in the morning.  Which has been great.  That's really convenient and it's helped me out a lot, I think.  This is a tough place to get to.  When I try and leave I get lost, so I couldn't imagine trying to come here every morning.  So that's been really nice, it was kind of them to let me stay with them.
Q.  Who are you staying with?
RYAN MOORE:  Mr. Brinkley, I believe is the last name, I believe.  He's a member out here.  He works on the greens crew out here, so.
Q.  Did you think about your decision at all to stay in college today?  Did that cross your mind about, geez, I could be out here right now doing this making a check maybe on Sunday or something?
RYAN MOORE:  Of course.  I'm out there, I'm playing a good round and not feeling any different than I have felt over the last few months, just playing.  And to be competitive and seeing all the scores that they're shooting compared to what I'm shooting really feel like that's what I should be doing.  I don't feel like I went out there and just careered it today or anything.  I just played a solid round of golf.  So of course that crossed my mind but still I don't regret my decision and I'm not going to change my decision.  I enjoy school and I want to get my degree and I enjoy the team golf, it's not something you get to do pretty much ever again, except for the Ryder Cup, Presidents Cup.  So, which hopefully I'll have a chance to be on those teams in the next 10 years or so.  But, no, I've enjoyed it and I don't regret the decision at all.
Q.  A lot of these guys have hat contracts what hat are you wearing?
RYAN MOORE:  Well I'm not allowed to wear my UNLV here for the week.  NCAA rules.  Some, something about if your in season and playing outside a NCAA sanctioned event then you can't use your team hat here.  So this is just our home course in Vegas.  It was Southern Highlands hat.  So, it's comfortable, fits me good.
Q.  Why would you play here perhaps not Las Vegas last week?
RYAN MOORE:  They would not allow me to play in Vegas.  It's a pro-am and they wouldn't allow -- the PGA TOUR said you can't be in.  And so the people that run Vegas definitely would have allowed me to play but the PGA TOUR said no.  Which is understandable.
Q.  But they didn't actually come to you and offer you, right, never got to that point.  They knew the rules?
RYAN MOORE:  No, no.  They knew that it wasn't, they checked just to make sure, but it was never really an option.  I would have loved to have.  I played all those courses every day and shoot 65s on them.  So it was kind of like, it would have been fun.  But, hey, you know, I'll come out here and this is nice.  I'm lucky to even get this opportunity.  So hopefully I can make the most of it.
Q.  Were there any invitations you turned down?
RYAN MOORE:  Couple Nationwide Tour events I turned down that one of them was during a college event and I'm already missing one for the World Amateur later this year.  So I didn't want to skip two.  And then another one was right after that.  The week after the Amateur.  I was so burned out I just couldn't imagine even playing good golf.  So I just decided not do that either.
Q.  Is any of the fans said anything to you like in passing like who are you or anything like that?
RYAN MOORE:  No.  I didn't see very many fans out there today.  A couple claps here and there, but I haven't got much of a response from that.
Q.  Are you on fall break this week?
RYAN MOORE:  No.  I'm skipping.  I skip a lot these days.  I don't know.  I don't go to much school.  I go whenever I'm there.  All of my teachers have been very kind and helped me out as much as they can.  And they let me makeup my work, but no, I'm missing every day.
Q.  What classes will you be missing tomorrow afternoon?
RYAN MOORE:  Tomorrow?  What day is tomorrow?
Q.  Friday.
RYAN MOORE:  Oh, I have a Friday morning class.  It's a track and field class.  Really hard one.

(Laughter.)  I'm one of those academic kind of guys, you know.  But that's what I'm missing in the morning.
Q.  So what will you be getting your degree in?
RYAN MOORE:  Communications.
Q.  And that will, and you will be able to by the spring?
RYAN MOORE:  I will have probably three classes I think that I'll have to finish up either in the summer or later that fall probably try to get in some classes or something.  They're all going to be electives so it will be easy for me to finish.
Q.  What class would you have missed today?
RYAN MOORE:  Thursday, I didn't have class.  So I didn't miss class today there.  You go.  I'm not as bad.

(Laughter.)
Q.  How do you look about look about going into tomorrow and the weekend?
RYAN MOORE:  Just got to keep doing what I'm doing.
Q.  Not too far off the lead?
RYAN MOORE:  No, I don't, I definitely just want to keep playing how I'm playing.  I'm playing good golf right now and hitting good shots.  I just got to make some putts.  I hit it to 15 feet it seemed all the way around for the whole golf course today.  Just couldn't get them to go.  I was burning edges and I'm coming close and they're going to fall.

So I just got to keep swinging the same way and just get a couple to drop.  There's better rounds around the corner hopefully.
Q.  Have you had any discussions with some of the younger guys in your position that have been through that have held out, been in school, folks like Matt or anyone like that, about how to prepare for the upcoming year?
RYAN MOORE:  No, I haven't really talked about that.  I know I talked to someone the other day said something about how they were impressed that I had stayed in school and there was someone that I don't think had stayed in school.  But the temptations are to get out here and start playing.  They understand how tough it could be.  So they thought that was impressive that I made that decision.  But I don't know.  It was a pretty easy decision for me.  I didn't think it was that hard of a decision, but everyone else has made it like it was a pretty amazing that I stayed in school.  But I've enjoyed my time there, it's a great program and I just have -- I see myself still be being able to develop there.  And that's, there's no reason to leave now.  I got it pretty good there.  So I'll stick it out.
Q.  So you turn pro after the British.  You wouldn't stick on for the Walker Cup or the Amateur?
RYAN MOORE:  As far as my plans are now, I'll, -- I don't know.
Q.  Okay.
RYAN MOORE:  That stuff's all up in the air.  I plan on turning after the British.  That's kind of the thoughts.  I don't I don't think I'll try and defend the Amateur or play the Walker Cup.  I've already done both, so why wait around for another one, I figure.
CHRIS REIMER:  Go through your club selection here on your birdies and bogeys.  Started out on 10.  So your first birdie was 13.
RYAN MOORE:  First birdie is 13.  Par-5.  3-wood, 3-wood to about 12 feet for eagle.  15 feet.  I don't know.

Then I just missed that one.  3-putted.

Next one, I hit a pitching wedge to about three feet.  129 was the yardage, I think.

2, I just got up-and-down from like 15 yards.  A lob wedge.  Made about a five-footer.

Bogey was the par -- I short sided myself right.  I hit a 3-iron on there.

5, I hit sand wedge.  Just hit sand wedge to about, I don't know, 10 feet.  A little left of the hole.  Just perfect.

8, I hit 5-iron to about, I would say 20 feet.  Just past the hole.  Made it.
CHRIS REIMER:  All right.  Good luck the rest of the week.
RYAN MOORE:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT