TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 25, 2016
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Wild afternoon for everybody.  Just talk through that last round and then obviously the additional holes.   
RYAN MOORE: Yeah, it's a blur at the moment.  It was just a really solid round of golf out there for the day.  Really just two great rounds in a row on the weekend to shoot 66, 64 on this track.  It's just a great golf course and demands everything out of your game.  You know, I just -- I controlled it nicely off the tee for the most part.  I had a little stretch in the middle where it got going sideways, but I was able to manage, make some pars.   
Tell you what, in regulation, I thought I made my putt.  The second I hit it, I really did not think it was going to miss on the right edge.  I had my chance to close it out right there.  Unfortunately didn't, and we all know what happened from there.   
 Q.  Just talk about the big par putt.  Looked like it was -- the big par putt or any of the big par putts.  You pick it.  It is a blur now, isn't it?  
RYAN MOORE: The one on the last hole, that one?  Fortunately, I had actually had the same putt earlier in the day, a very similar putt at least.  I actually missed it a little bit low.  So it was one I was very comfortable with, and really I'd been hitting my putts where I wanted to all day for the most part.   
I just wanted to make him earn it for that much money at least.  I wanted him to make the putt.  It was nice to get up and make it, but you give a great player like him that many opportunities, and he's going to make one eventually.  Unfortunately, my putt wasn't for birdie.  It was for par from that spot.   
 Q.  Ryan, you've waited a long time to be in that kind of environment against that type of opponent.  How much fun was that for you?  
RYAN MOORE: It was fun.  Honestly, I was having a blast out there today.  Rory and I had a great time, really all around.  Just it was back and forth all day.  Obviously, Chappell was playing great along the way too.  So just coming down the stretch there, it was fun.  It's a position I want to be in more often, and I was surprised actually how comfortable I was.   
I wasn't getting too nervous or too jittery out there.  I was actually kind of comfortable and just relaxing and playing golf, which to me is a great sign of where I'm at physically, mentally.  I just feel better than I have in a while.   
 Q.  How do you weigh the disappointment of not winning the playoff with the fact that you played so great today and particularly your clutch down the stretch?  How do you weigh those two things?  
RYAN MOORE: I mean, at this point, what can you do?  I did everything I could.  I hit every golf shot as good as I possibly could today.  I put 100 percent effort into everything out there.  Unfortunately today, it wasn't enough.   
But it was a great year, really solid year.  Great last few months here.  I just like that my game is trending the right direction.  And whether I get a chance to play next week or not.  Otherwise, I get a couple weeks off, and I'm excited to go play these fall tournaments.   
My game's in a good place.  I like where it's at.  Like I said, mentally, physically, everything is kind of going the right direction.  That's something to get a lot of confidence out of.   
 Q.  Do you feel that performance was a statement in regards to next week?  
RYAN MOORE: You know, to be honest, that was the farthest thing from my mind.  I really -- maybe people believe me or don't, I don't know -- but I was not thinking about that at all.  I was 100 percent trying to win a golf tournament today.  I knew winning the FedExCup was a stretch.  I needed a few right things to happen, which seemed to almost -- it almost got there.   
So really, I wasn't thinking about that.  I wasn't thinking about the Ryder Cup.  I was just thinking about the one thing I could do today was win a golf tournament.  So let's try and do that.  It's pretty crazy to go out in the position I was and shoot 64 and then honestly not win.  It was a great round of golf on this golf course.  It was just a great battle.  It was a great match.   
 Q.  I know in the heat of the battle you weren't thinking about any of those other things, but in retrospect, you just talked about how much fun it was, how exciting it was to be out there in that arena, going head to head with somebody like Rory McIlroy.  Would next week add to that experience because that's basically what every round is?  Have you put it in that context?  
RYAN MOORE: I mean, yeah, I've never experienced it.  If that is something I get to do, then I will enjoy it.  If it's a lot like this in this type of environment, that would be fun.  But, again, I didn't earn a spot.  I've left it up to other people to make that decision for me.   
So at this point, I still have no idea what's going to happen.  I kind of thought I had to win this golf tournament, and I didn't.  So we'll see what happens from here.   
 Q.  Could you talk about how Rory holed out at 16 in regulation, and it kind of sent a jolt around the course and shook up the leaderboard.  Talk about that moment.  
RYAN MOORE: I thought it was a great shot.  Honestly, it looked like it was going in from the second he hit it.  I bounced right back the next hole, and knocked a nice birdie putt in and got right back on top of him.  Like I said, it was a great battle all day back and forth between him and I and Kevin.  Well, he ended up on top.   
THE MODERATOR: We appreciate your time.  Great way to finish your season.  Number 7 in the FedExCup standings.   
RYAN MOORE: That's not so bad.  Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT