TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 24, 2016
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What's your mindset, what's your approach tomorrow?
RYAN MOORE: There's just so much out of my control tomorrow.  Of all the days to just kind of focus and take it one shot at a time and play a round of golf, tomorrow's the day.  It's going to be hard to do with everything that's on the line right now, but I like where my game's at.  I like the way I've been turning the right direction this week.
Put together a really solid round of golf today.  Hit a lot of great wedges.  Put myself back on the fairways again today to give myself more opportunities.
The reality is there's some good guys right around me.  There's a couple of great players playing some phenomenal golf ahead of me.  A lot of things have to happen.  But on a golf course like this, you just never know.  It's a very difficult golf course, and you can go both directions on this golf course.  For me, to try and put a good solid round together and see what happens.
Q. Did you sneak a peek at the FedExCup leaderboard?
RYAN MOORE: I know the biggest issue, as far as winning the FedExCup, is I have to win the golf tournament, and the person that's right there ahead of me at this point has to finish, I believe, worse than eighth or so.  Like I said, there's a lot of factors out of my control as far as that stuff is concerned.  I'm going to try and focus and try to go win a golf tournament tomorrow.  Where everything else falls, we'll see.
Q. What is most challenging about being out there?  It's a tough test of golf.
RYAN MOORE: It is.  First and foremost, it's tough to hit fairways.  Every hole out here is difficult if you don't hit the fairway, and it's a big part for me.  If there's a few holes -- there's a handful of holes that, if you do hit the fairway, you can have a club that you can get it around the hole, but if you don't, you're scrambling for par every single time and hoping to hit the greens.  Today I put it in the fairway on most of those holes and gave myself some wedges that I was able to hit close and then make some birdies.
But just as easily, you can miss the fairway and be scrambling those same holes, just trying to make a par.
Q. How would you compare this current stretch of golf to other hot stretches you've had?
RYAN MOORE: I would call this one a little more consistent, just kind of how I felt day in and day out, week in and week out on the golf course.  It's just a more consistent stretch of golf for me.  It's not necessarily flashy and really hot.  It's just kind of -- you know, I like what I'm doing.  I like how I feel out there.  I like my attitude and how I've been controlling myself out there.  That's half the battle when it comes to these things.
Q. Would you consider it the most consistent stretch you've had?
RYAN MOORE: I mean, not necessarily.  I had a stretch right around this -- this would have been 2012.  I finished tenth, tenth, and then third at this tournament and then won two weeks later in Vegas.  That was a pretty consistent, really nice stretch of golf as well.
I've played similar to this.  I like how I'm doing it this time better.  I feel like I'm controlling the ball better, and I was playing a little more well rounded this go around, which I like.  I think that's positive for the future.
Q. Does Ryder Cup goals come into play?  If so, how?
RYAN MOORE: Not at all.  I came here this week to win a golf tournament, and I'm 100 percent focused on that.  That's honestly completely out of my control.  I've kind of just let it go, and I'm not thinking about it at all.  I'm going to go and try to win a golf tournament tomorrow.  Everything that falls in order after that, it happens.
Q. You're doing great.
RYAN MOORE: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT