TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 23, 2016
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Talk about your success.  
RYAN MOORE: It was just a good, steady day.  Missed a lot of fairways, which for me is not the norm, but I was able to make a lot of good solid pars from those positions.  Really good, solid short putting, I would call it, eight feet in.  Felt great.  Made a lot of good par savers and was able to finally roll in a decent birdie chance there on 17.  So it was kind of nice to finish the day off.   
 Q.  How difficult is this course playing?  
RYAN MOORE: It's just a hard golf course.  I'd call it a sneaky hard golf course.  There's nothing about it that looks that intimidating or that crazy, but fairways are just narrow enough, just firm enough.  The greens -- it's hard to get a lot of close birdie chances is what I would say on this golf course.  If you end up with three birdies from eight feet and in on the day, that's a good day on this golf course, at least for me.  You end up hitting good shots from 15 to 20 feet a lot.  Some of that is because you're missing a lot of fairways because they're tough to hit.  You hit it down right edge or left edge, it's kicked in the rough, then it's 50/50 whether you're going to have a decent lie or get one up or around the green.   
 Q.  [ No microphone ]?  
RYAN MOORE: I personally like it.  I think it makes someone play good golf to win this tournament.  You can't get away with one part of your game not working.  You've got to put it all together to shoot a good score on this golf course.  I like it.  I've played well both times I've played here and I seem to be playing well again this week.   
It's a course where length is always an advantage no matter what, but if you're hitting it long and hitting it in the wrong places, this place will get you, whereas if you're hitting in the fairways and giving yourself chances, you can get yourself a good golf score that way.   
It doesn't really favor one type of player or the other, which is great for this type of tournament.   
 Q.  Do you think it made a difference to change the finish?  
RYAN MOORE: It's a little bit different, for sure.  The course just has a different rhythm to it.  Every single week we generally play the golf course the opposite direction, except for a tournament like this where we have 30 people.  Usually you have a day where you tee off from 10.  We're used to playing the opposite way of what the way it's maybe meant to play.   
So I haven't really thought about it too much.  It's definitely a much more difficult start.  Those first two holes are tough.  There's a narrow fairway there on 10 and then a very tough green to get it anywhere around the hole.  A lot of bad places you can hit it around that green.   
I'm sure we're seeing a lot more bogeys early on.  Number 10 now, old number 1, a lot of guys will hit 3 wood wedge into that green or sand wedge, so there's not going to be as many birdies early on.   
 Q.  Given Dustin's current form, how difficult is it going to be going into the weekend trying to catch him?  
RYAN MOORE: When that guy gets going, he's tough to beat.  He hits 70 yards farther than me and basically as straight as I do.  I'm not trying to think about him or worry about him.  I'm just trying to put together a nice, solid golf tournament for myself and see where that ends up in the end, I guess.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT