WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 16, 2016
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
RYAN MOORE: Played pretty solid here last year.  I like where my game is at.   
I like how I've been feeling lately, body is feeling a lot better.  Good time of the year for that to be the case.  This is the time of year sometimes you are starting to get a little worn out.  It's pretty late in the season.  I took a pretty good break in the middle of the season so I could kind of have a better stretch here at the end.  That seems to be working.   
 Q.  This golf course here, does that set up well for your game?  
RYAN MOORE: Yeah, I like this golf course a lot.  I think it's a great course, a lot of character.  You've got to hit a lot of different shots off the tees, into the greens, a lot of different clubs.  I enjoy golf courses like that.  It's not just get up, hit a driver as far as you can, try and hit a mid iron and long iron into every single hole.  There's lots of different types of holes out here and that's kind of fun, interesting golf.   
 Q.  You talked about the heat last week.  Heading into a tournament where you know it's going to be hot, do you change your game or any routine that way?  
RYAN MOORE: Not necessarily.  We play in some pretty warm conditions a lot out here.  I think at this point we're all kind of used to it.  I know I don't really approach it any differently.  Just make sure and drink plenty of water and it's good.   
 Q.  When you are coming off a victory, are you even more pumped up or is it almost like you are taking a deep breath and saying wow?  
RYAN MOORE: I took yesterday to kind of slow down a little bit and just enjoy it.  Kind of hang out, I have my coach and my trainer here, so we just kind of hung out.  We did some work in the gym, which has been helping me a lot.  We made sure to spend some time in there, made sure my body is going to be feeling the same again this week.   
But, yeah, it's exciting.  It's fun winning golf tournaments.  Doing that and then being able to follow it up with a tournament I've won before and that I enjoy, I'm really excited to go play again this week.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT