JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
August 13, 2016
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Ryan, a good day of golf.  You're off to a very good start.
RYAN MOORE: Yeah, it was nice to kind of get it rolling this morning, make a few birdies early.  It was just an overall really steady round of golf.  I had a lot of good opportunities that I didn't capitalize on here on my second nine.  But at the same time, yeah, I hit a lot of good shots, made some good putts, and I'm happy with what's happening right now.
Q. You were 5 under par in your round through the first 11 holes, then plateaued a little bit with five straight pars.  I was impressed with your patience.  You didn't try to force the issue.
RYAN MOORE: No.  That's just not how I play golf.  I'm a position guy, just put it out there, and just keep giving myself opportunities.  I've done that really well the last two days.
My putting has felt better than it's felt in a while, which is very encouraging.  Good time of year for it to be feeling good.
Q. Has the golf course dried out?
RYAN MOORE: No, no, it has not yet.  We'll see.  It's a little breezy.  Get the sun out, and it might happen this afternoon.
Q. Get some rest.  We'll see you in the afternoon.
RYAN MOORE: Exactly.
Q. It's been a good week.
RYAN MOORE: Yeah, it has.  Played some solid golf the last two days to shoot those numbers two days in a row.  It's just good, solid, steady golf.  Just giving myself a lot of opportunities.  The greens are great this year.  They're rolling just perfect.  For me, that's just what I'm trying to do, give myself as many looks as I can.
Q. What is it about this course that fits you that you like, that you see well right now, or is it the course?
RYAN MOORE: Yeah, I've always kind of liked this golf course.  Didn't play it too well my first few times around it.  Took a couple years off.  And ever since I kind of came back and started playing it again, I've played it a lot better.
I don't know if I've gotten better, gotten smarter, understand my strengths and weaknesses a little bit better.  You know, for me, it's all about just keeping it in play out here and putting myself in position a lot.  I'm going to have a fair amount of wedges and 8 irons, 9 irons, stuff like that into holes.  If you give me enough of those throughout a round, I'm going to have some decent opportunities.
Q. Usually, when you're winning after two rounds, you get to enjoy it overnight and that kind of stuff.  What do you do now for a little bit before you get back out there for round 3 around the corner?
RYAN MOORE: I have no idea.  I haven't thought about it yet, what I'm going to do to kill these next few hours, but I'll probably just go back to the hotel, hang out, FaceTime my family for a while.  Take my mind off it, and then just come back out and get ready to play.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT