JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
August 13, 2016
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You guys decided that we are going to play 18 and get this done?
RYAN MOORE: As soon as it was an option.  There actually was plenty of light for the tee shot and the second shot.  I think we would have gone a lot faster on the green there if it wasn't for that giant sign there that kind of lit it up.  We could actually see just fine around the green and went ahead and played as normal from there.  I think we would have finished one way or another.
Q. 65 for the third straight day, really well done.  Ball-striking very, very sharp.  You only missed two greens.
RYAN MOORE: Yeah, it was solid.  I didn't hit it as close as I have the previous two rounds, but I capitalized on the ones I did get around the hole, I made, and then I scrambled well the couple of times I missed the greens.  I had to make decent putts, and it just added up to a good round.
Q. Are you glad we're back on schedule for Sunday?
RYAN MOORE: That will be very nice.  I've woken up in the 4:00 hour I think three out of the last four days, so it will be nice to make it past that tomorrow.
Q. Obviously a different way to finish a round of golf, but how well was the sight out there?
RYAN MOORE: It was fine, really.  The tee shot on 18 and the second shot was fine.  Once we were on the green, if it wasn't for that giant John Deere sign lit up there, it would have been a little bit different.  I think we would have just played a lot faster to make sure that we got it in, but with that lighting it up the way it was, I mean, we basically could just play as normal once we got there.
Q. We talked after round 2 and you liked what was going on here, and it continued in the afternoon?
RYAN MOORE: Yeah, it did.  It was a long day.  It was a lot of golf holes I played today, so to play that solid all day long, I'm very encouraged about it.  I think that was 34 holes I played today.
You know, it will be nice to get to sleep a little bit tomorrow and be well rested and just ready to get after it again tomorrow.
Q. As much as the leaderboard changed today it'll do the same hopping back and forth with different challenges.  Are you ready for a crazy Sunday?
RYAN MOORE: Yeah.  This golf course, the way it's playing right now, obviously there were some great scores this afternoon.  The wind laid down those last nine holes, and you could definitely make some birdies out there, and quite a few guys did.  That's how this tournament goes when it rains and gets a little bit soft, so we'll see how it goes.
Q. Do you have a number in mind for tomorrow?
RYAN MOORE: No, I haven't had numbers.  My son keeps telling me the amount of birdies I need to make in the round.  He actually told me six birdies was what I was supposed to make this round.  This is my three-year-old son.  I don't think he has any concept of what he's telling me --
Q. Tell him to tell you nine tomorrow.
RYAN MOORE: That's exactly what I'm going to say:  Say nine, say nine.  So yeah, I'll just go out and play as hard as I can and see what I can get out of it.
Q. How much will you watch the scoreboard tomorrow?
RYAN MOORE: They're there enough to kind of have a grasp on what's happening.  I'm not going to obsess over it.  It's the kind of golf course where you can rattle off quite a few birdies at any given time.  If you get too stressed over it or too worried about it, it can kind of take you out of your game, and instead of just playing my own game, and you just never know, you just might make three or four in a row and be right back up there if things don't start how you want.
Q. What are your plans for Sunday morning?  Are you going to sleep in or just get up at 5:00 in the morning like you've been doing all week anyway?
RYAN MOORE: I honestly probably will wake up at 5:00 just because that's when I have been waking up basically this whole week.  I'm going to try and make it past that, but we'll see how that goes.
Q. Last hole, what was worse, the light or the bugs?
RYAN MOORE: Yeah, we were starting to get eaten up by mosquitos.  I think Steve was getting it worse than I was.  I only had a couple there, but yeah, it was tough.
Q. Talk about the putt on 18.
RYAN MOORE: It was dead center about a foot to go.  I was very surprised that that one missed.  But it was late in the day, greens were getting a little bumpy with the amount of play that had been on them today, and mine just bobbled a little bit.
Q. Have you been in a situation quite like that with a scoreboard lighting up the green?
RYAN MOORE: No, no, I've never done anything like that before.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT