VALSPAR CHAMPIONSHIP
March 13, 2016
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Big today to try win on a really, really tough golf course out there and make that birdie at 6, we go okay, and then par out.  Come on, really.  You played well today.
RYAN MOORE: I really did, honestly.  I hit some great shots on there on the backside.  I had two, three really good opportunities and, to be honest, hit the putts exactly how I wanted to.
You know, beyond that there's nothing else you can ask of yourself.  I hit good shots and I had opportunities and, you know, just didn't make them.
Q. You knew today going in that you needed to play well for the Match Play, you're 61st in the World Ranking.  You don't want someone passing you.  All of a sudden no one says no and you're out.
RYAN MOORE: Yeah.  That was big going into this week.  I mean I needed a solid week to stay up there and with those ranking systems I don't understand them very well.  I play good sometimes and go backwards, I play good other times and jump up 15 spots.
Obviously that was in the back of my mind, wanted to play well.  This is a great tournament, great golf course.  I enjoy playing here every year and I seem to have kind of figured a little something out these last couple years, you know, barely missed the playoff last year and ended a couple shots out this year.
Q. Really, really close, man.  Thanks for your time.  Hey, you finally broke through the three 10s.
RYAN MOORE: I finished tied for 10th 3 times and tied for 11th one other time.  I was right around that range.  I actually think this is my first ever 3rd place alone finish that I've ever had.  I finished 3rd tied a few times.  Honestly, maybe only once.  So, hey, you know, it's something.
Q. Playing good.  Lot of FedExCup Points, little cash to line the pockets and good time of the year to be playing well, man.  Everything is starting to happen right now.
RYAN MOORE: It is.  I got some great tournaments coming up and I'm looking forward to the Masters is not too far out there and I'm in this year.  So, you know, it's a good time to be playing well.
Q. Thanks for your time.  Good luck next week.
RYAN MOORE: Yes.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT