VALSPAR CHAMPIONSHIP
March 12, 2016
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  16 of 18 greens, no bogies which is saying a lot but see you coming off the golf course, wow, this could have been a special round of golf today.  
RYAN MOORE: Really could have been.  Funny about it, I've actually been putting great and everything else has been a little on and off and then, you know, of course I go out and stripe it like I do today and missed a couple putts.   
Obviously I hit a lot of good putts that didn't go in.  Couple of them weren't great putts but for the most part did hit a lot of good putts today and some days they just don't go.   
 Q.  I saw you getting the ball to the hole today.  At least a lot of guys are leaving that 12 to 15, 20-foot range putt short but even though like on 18 you gave it a ride where you to kind of pay attention on the second one.  
RYAN MOORE: One of those days I played well enough.  I really wanted to make the one on 18.  I felt like I kind of deserved that, a 3-under round at least.  I gave it a little too much there.  I wasn't going to leave that one short.  But I felt good on the short ones.   
I was confident enough to step up and knock the next one in.  It's a conscious effort, you know, of stepping up and saying let's get it there, let's hit this and hit it solid and let it go from there.   
 Q.  As good as you're hitting it, you got to be looking forward to a Sunday.  Who knows.  Conditions might be a little tough, fairways and greens.  Might have to post not too many under.  
RYAN MOORE: You never know around this golf course.  It's such a good golf course and demands a lot out of your game.  Lot of things can go different directions real fast on this golf course.  You can go out and shoot a great round of golf and shoot a 7, 8-under but you can just as easily go the other direction.   
So, you know, I'm like hoping to keep doing what I'm doing which has been swinging great today, maybe make a few more putts and we'll see.   
 Q.  Ryan, 2-under par round for you day.  Was it the kind of round -- a solid performance but could it have been even better?  
THE WITNESS: Yeah, it could have been a great round.  My proximity to the hole is great.  All day I was right around the hole had reasonable chances for birdie.  You know, missed a couple that I probably should have made.   
But, for the most part, honestly hit good putts all day.  I wasn't too disappointed with the putts I was hitting and some days they just don't go in.   
 Q.  You talked all week about the challenges on this golf course.  Is it something if you're hitting good putts do you just kind of say you take what it gives you knowing that perhaps the guys in front of you aren't going to be putting up low numbers all day long?  
RYAN MOORE: You look at the leaderboard and see it not moving around too much.  You see 2-under being Top-10, you see that kind of stuff.  So you know the course is still playing tough.   
I just had a great day of ball-striking that made the course seem a little bit easier but it's a great golf course and it demands a lot out of us and it's one of those courses you can go either direction on it real fast so, you know, for me, it's just playing it patient and see what it gives me.   
 Q.  Finally, what are you going to do from today to apply to tomorrow and hopefully try to get a win?  
RYAN MOORE: Honestly, the probably the best and most comfortable I've felt over the golf shots in a good while.  I felt really great, especially on my back-9, just hit something, great iron shots.  Pretty good driver of the ball normally but the irons have been a little on and off lately.   
The way I struck my irons on the backside I'm going to think about that a lot tonight and hopefully be able to recapture it tomorrow.   
 Q.  Ryan, thank you very much for your time.  
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT