JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 13, 2019
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  The way was worth it in that round to get in the house like that.  I know that's a nice way to finish.  
RYAN MOORE: It was.  I was kind of kicking myself walking off I think it was 14 there.  Hit a great pitch shot up there and missed a short putt and then bogeyed 15, so I was kind of a little down on myself, and I gave myself a little pep talk and was like, all right, let's go try and birdie these last three holes, let's get it back, and I ended up doing one better than that and actually snuck an eagle in there on 17.  So yeah, it was a great way to finish, and overall a really solid day.  Putting was a little up and down, but started to feel a little better towards the end there.   
 Q.  Has this golf course been a little bit different this year to adjust to to try and score on it?  
RYAN MOORE: Absolutely.  The greens are still receptive.  It's still warm.  They've got to keep moisture on them.  So you're just hitting a lot shorter clubs into some holes.  I'm used to hitting 5-irons or hybrids, and I'm hitting 7-irons and 8-irons.  But yeah, it's an adjustment.  Maybe a couple fairways are a little tougher to hit just because they're a little firmer and faster, but overall I'd say it's a pretty similar test to the way we play it.  Yeah, ball is just rolling a little bit more.   
 Q.  Obviously you know what it takes down the stretch on this golf course.  Does that help or is that a little bit of a false narrative?  
RYAN MOORE: It never hurts.  It's always nice being on a golf course you've had success, you're comfortable with, and I'd say this is a golf course I'm very comfortable with.  This is one of the top two or three courses all year I feel very comfortable hitting tee shots, and it's just a course that seems to set up well for me and it's just a matter of going out and making some putts and trying to make it interesting tomorrow.   
 Q.  Really feels like this is anyone's for the taking.  What's your mindset going into tomorrow?  
RYAN MOORE: It's trying to do what I did the last few holes today.  I finished birdie-eagle-birdie.  I hit some nice shots and hit some better putts.  Just been a little up and down with the putter this week.  I think I've controlled the golf ball nicely all the way around the golf course, it's just a matter of whether I could convert those birdie chances or not, and I was able to do that the last few holes, so hopefully just kind of carry that momentum over to tomorrow.   
 Q.  What did you do to put together that strong finish?  
RYAN MOORE: You know, I was kind of kicking myself even after 14, missed a short birdie there, and then bogeying 15, I was -- I had to give myself a little pep talk and just like, all right, let's just go and try and have a strong finish, let's try and birdie these last three holes.  I fortunately did one better than that, so that was a little bonus.  Sometimes it's just regroup, know you still have some scoring opportunities coming up, and just go try and keep hitting good golf shots.   
 Q.  Some of those feelings coming back that you had a few years ago here when you took home the trophy?  
RYAN MOORE: You know, it's a place I always enjoy and I'm very comfortable with the golf course and I've had pretty solid success here over the years with good, solid finishes and good rounds shooting under par quite a bit.  It's just a place I enjoy coming, and it's a nice -- it's nice to go to a golf course that you feel good on, you like the tee shots and you've had that success.  You definitely draw on that a little bit.  But still at the end of the day you've still got to go hit good shots and you've got to make the putts and do all that.   
 Q.  What do you remember about the run from '16?  It seemed to start here, it took you all the way, put you on the Ryder Cup team to actually clinching that winning point.  
RYAN MOORE: Yeah, it really did.  It kind of kick-started that.  That was kind of an odd year for me kind of up to that point, but I felt like I had played better golf than maybe my performance had shown, and so this week it just all kind of started working a little bit, started making the putts that I hadn't been making, still controlling the golf ball nicely, and that definitely kick-started that run, and good solid golf from there all the way through the Ryder Cup.   
 Q.  How is the course playing this week compared to what it's played in the past when you've been here?  
RYAN MOORE: Oh, it's much firmer, much drier.  The greens are still receptive.  It's just still so warm, they've got to keep moisture on them.  But yeah, I mean, the ball is actually rolling 20, 30 yards down the fairway.  It changes your lines on some of the holes.  Some areas you can be a little bit more aggressive on and some that you have to take a little bit more aggressive line because you're used to it stopping in the fairway and now it will run through the fairway.  That's just kind of some minor adjustment, mostly on tee shots.   
 Q.  How is that going to affect the final round and how you guys play and how aggressive you can be?  
RYAN MOORE: Well, I mean, we've played on it for three straight days like this, so I think we're all kind of used to where it's going and what it's doing and know where it's at.  Obviously the wind can change a little bit here and there, but I think we're all pretty comfortable with the golf course the way it is, it's just a matter of going out and navigating it the right way.   
 Q.  How is your wife doing and how are you keeping that balance and focus with where she's at right now?  
RYAN MOORE: Yeah, I mean, I'm in an on-call situation right here.  She's still a few weeks out, so it was comfortable being here.  I won't be going to the British Open next week because that's just way too far away and I would not feel comfortable being that far away just a few weeks before baby No. 3 is on the way.   
You know, she's feeling fine.  She said don't worry about it, just go play.  Hopefully she makes it through one more day and I can fly home tomorrow night.   
 Q.  Do you keep the phone on in your bag while you're playing?  
RYAN MOORE: No, but they know how to contact people to come find me inside the ropes if need be.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT