CIMB CLASSIC
October 29, 2015
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So 5-under, great start to the week, I know you dropped one on 17, but overall are you pleased?
RYAN MOORE: Yeah.  It was a good start to the tournament.  It was just a good solid ball striking round, really.  I had a lot of great opportunities for birdies.  Wasn't able to convert all of them, but I made some good ones.
I had a nice little stretch on the back nine there, got it rolling and made three birdies in a row.
And there's just something about this golf course, I'm comfortable on it, I like the conditions, the way it plays and for some reason it just seems to bring good things out of my golf game.
Q. Can you elaborate on that comfort that you have here, the success that you've had?
RYAN MOORE: Yeah, it's hard to even figure out why, sometimes.  There's just a certain few golf courses a year that you just seem to play well on and this is one of them for me.  I think that I read the greens pretty well, I putt pretty well on them, and I think I'm just comfortable with a lot of the tee shots and where to leave it and the approaches into the greens.
And I think I just kind of have my system of how I play this golf course and it seems to keep proceeding good golf scores.  So I'm hopefully just keep that rolling.
Q. Do you think you would have to do anything different with Scott shooting 10-under today?
RYAN MOORE: I shot 8- or 9-under the first year I won, the first round and 14-under won that year.  So you never know.  That's a great round of golf and Scott's a great player that can really get on fire and make a ton of birdies.  And when someone like him's out front, you're always a little bit worried just because you know what he's capable of.  But at the same time, this is a golf course that seems to even itself out a little bit over time.  And it seems to have the last couple of years.
So, you just wait and see and just keep playing as good as I can every single day and see what happens from there.
Q. What's like the one key for you this week, if you're going to win for the third straight time?
RYAN MOORE: Just continuing to play golf like I did today, which is controlling the golf ball, putting the ball in the fairway.  Today we had ball in hand with lift, clean and place, that's huge, being in the fairway a lot.  Then just when you have my wedge opportunities, make the most of them.  Hit those close and have good birdie opportunities.
Like I said, I read the greens pretty well and I putt them pretty well, so if I have really reasonable chances, 10 to 15 footers quite a bit throughout the day, I'm going to make some of them.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT