U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 19, 2015
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Correct me if I'm wrong, but I believe you called the USGA shortly before the U.S. Amateur because you were concern with the greens, and then we're obviously hearing a lot of complaints about the greens.  And seeing them, they are very bumpy.  What do you think about it and what should happen?  RYAN MOORE: You know, I don't know.  They are definitely not the smoothest putting surface in the world.  Some people are making putts on them.  That's the reality.  That's what I told myself the beginning of the week, it doesn't matter.  You just get up, try to hit good putts, if they do go in, great.  Obviously there's some people making them.  They actually roll a lot truer than they look.  Yeah, I'm not sure why, they just haven't quite got them where they want them yet.  Maybe another few years they will be right where they want them.  It's not the greens fault in any way the last couple days, for me at least.   Q.  Do you think the greens need to be redone or what do you think needs to be done with the greens?  RYAN MOORE: I don't know.  I'm not a person that makes important decisions like that, so I'll leave that up to the big guys to figure that out.   Q.  You wanted to play well this week, but you also said you wanted to enjoy the week.  I don't know if you got to do that after the last couple of days.  What has it been like to have this in your back yard?  RYAN MOORE: It's obviously great to have it here.  I'm disappointed with how I played.  I would be lying if I said I felt great coming into this week.  I tried getting out there, getting a lot of time on the golf course, getting comfortable with it.  This course does not set up all that well for me.  I hit the ball really low and it is firm and fast, but with all the large slopes in front of the greens, it kind of makes you take it in a little more aerial than a lot of the links courses.  That point I'm flying it to, it's bouncing and going way past the hole.  If I fly it short, it kills it and runs off the green.  It was tough for me.  In the end just didn't hit good enough golf shots.   Q.  There were a couple early birdies?  RYAN MOORE: I played all right on the front today.  I shot even, made a couple silly bogeys, but felt like I was controlling the ball decent enough.  Maybe make a run at it.  I had no idea what the cut might be.  I was thinking it was going to be in the 4 or 5 range.  At that time making the turn, I was at 5.  Obviously like to hit as low as possible, but three-putted the first hole making the turn and then 3-putted -- two holes later, I three-putted.  Just all started going the wrong direction on my second nine.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT