THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
June 5, 2015
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  RYAN MOORE:   Obviously 6, I hit a very poor tee shot, probably even worse second shot.   It was just a whole lot of bad shots on that hole. 
I bounced back and hit a great tee shot on the next hole, even better second shot.   Flagged it there, and just barely trickled through the green.   Gave myself a really easy up‑and‑down for birdie so I could kind of get the momentum going back in the right direction.
And then hit a great 7‑iron there into 8, it was not the easiest pin there and I hit it to 8, 9 feet, just left of the pin there, so another birdie. 
And it was nice to close another one on 9.

Q.   On 9, I thought your second shot was a good shot, and you left yourself kind of a tough putt.   It was tough to read?
RYAN MOORE:   Yeah, it was one of those ones‑‑ yeah, it's easy to misread.   It was kind of nice watching Camilo's ball come down from behind the hole and just kind of see it hang out to that side so I could confidently kind of hit that putt into the inside right.   It's one you want to favor a little more to the left side of the hole because your stance, you're standing on the edge of the bunker there. 
But I hit a perfect putt inside right and it went right in the left center.

Q.   Today I followed you and you had at least five putts that went right over the edge.   You've got to feel like you're right on the verge of hitting a lot of them in?
RYAN MOORE:   Yeah, on greens, it's good.   If you read them reasonably well and start on the line, you can make a lot of putts.   I made some great putts, a couple of them really surprised me.   I don't get fooled too often. 
I told my caddie that, if I hit a putt and it's a foot off my putter, I think it's going in, it usually goes in.   And a couple of them today just looked in the whole way, and just barely‑‑ just missed the edge at the end. 
But greens are good.   It's hard not to make putts this time. 

Q.   What's faster, these greens or Augusta National?
RYAN MOORE:   Actually it gets pretty close.   These get really speedy.   Obviously these greens aren't as severely undulated as Augusta, which adds to the speed a little bit.   But these get right up there.

Q.   Was it important to get to double digits?
RYAN MOORE:   Yeah, it's important for me to get everything out of every round I play.   Obviously after that double, I know there's a couple of holes I could make birdies on coming in.   Let's get those two shots back.   Let's try to finish strong, get those two shots back.   End up getting three back on the last few holes was a great bonus. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT