THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
June 4, 2015
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Happy with how it went?   Obviously you're at the top now?  
RYAN MOORE:   Yeah, it was‑‑ obviously had a great start to the day.   I got rolling there on the front nine and was able to make it eagle and a couple birdies in a row.   That's obviously a great way to start your day.  
Just really controlled the ball well all day and finally made some putts.   It was nice to see some of those putts that have just been burning edges a lot for me, they went in today.  
   
 Q.   You've played here a lot.   How much has that local knowledge helped?  
RYAN MOORE:   I think it helps.   I think there's certain courses you just feel comfortable on, and this is one of those for me.   Even when I'm struggling coming into this tournament, this course, for some reason, it seems to produce good golf scores for me.   It's one of those things‑‑ it's one of my favorite courses we play certainly all year, and I'm very comfortable on it.   
And with greens this good, it definitely, definitely helped.   If you hit a putt where you're supposed to hit it, it goes in the hole.   It's nice putting on greens this perfect.  
   
 Q.   At 6:00 p.m. you said you weren't very happy.   What was it?   Was it a break?   Was it getting a good night's sleep?   What kind of clicked, switched for you?  
RYAN MOORE:   Yeah, I had a good practice session, actually, after we talked.   So it was probably good I took a little break after my round and sat down for a few minutes.   I was probably thinking about my golf swing more than I was the questions that you were asking, to be honest.   But that's okay.   
Well, it was bad.   It was really bad in the practice round.   There was a lot of puzzling going on.   I just simplified it as much as I could, I just found maybe the base problem of I think what was kind of affecting a little bit everything and just kind of tried to apply that to all parts of my game.   And it was just a minor little setup thing that got me a little more comfortable today, a little more relaxed and able to swing the putt, really.  
   
 Q.   What club on 5?  
RYAN MOORE:   It was a hybrid, like a 20 degree hybrid, from 226 or 7, something like that.   
   
 Q.   Do you like the U.S. Open in your state coming up in a few weeks?  
RYAN MOORE:   Oh, man, I can't go anywhere without getting asked about it, that's for sure.   Even players, caddies, media, somebody, every day, somewhere is asking about it.   But it's fun.   It's the first time and potentially only time for me in my entire life that I'll get to play a tournament truly from where I'm from.   That's 15 miles from the house I grew up in.  
It's not the course I grew up on.   Obviously, it's not that old a golf course.   But just to play it in your own area, I assume I'll get some pretty good fan and crowd support out there.   And it will just be fun.   I'm going to try and not make too much of it.   I think sometimes you can put a little too much pressure on yourself in those situations.   I'm just going to try to enjoy it.   Like I said, it may be the only time in my entire life I get to play a tournament really where I'm from.  
   
 Q.   Is there a risk of it being an advantage or disadvantage of these two factors, A, because of the familiarity, and B, from ‑‑ I don't want to say all the distractions, but‑‑  
RYAN MOORE:   It's certainly a chance for both.   I'm going to be there all next week.   I'm going to go play that golf course every single day next week.   I think that certainly shouldn't hurt, as far as that's concerned.  
But there is plenty of stuff that could be distractions, and I'm going to try to get a lot of work done on the golf course, as much as I can next week.   So the Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, kind of leading up to it can be a little more low key and not having to be out on the course as much.   And just kind of maybe play the nine I feel like I need to play a little bit more.   I'm going to try to do as much course work as I can and just really get familiar with it.  
I've played it a handful of times, but not in the conditions it's going to be in.   For me it's just getting comfortable with the slopes and the way they roll and the speed of the greens.   
   
 Q.   Do you like the golf course?   Because we hear guys say, oh, it's interesting or whatever.   And it's sort of an ambivalent answer to the question.   
RYAN MOORE:   That's a nice way of saying what they really think, you think?   
   
 Q.   Right.   How do you view the golf course?   What do you like, if there are things you do like about it?  
RYAN MOORE:   I do.   It's a stretch to call it a traditional links course, but it still is a links golf course.   It's not a links course that just looks like one, that we're going to play later this summer, where it looks a lot like the links course.   But you still play everything through the air, and it's very much like a traditional golf course that we play.   
This is going to play like a links golf course.   You're going to have to keep it low to the ground and using 5‑woods and hybrids and pumping and running it.   
So for me, I enjoy that.   I've enjoyed that type of golf.   I've played better and better in the Opens the last few years.   I've gotten more and more comfortable with that style of golf.   So for me, yeah, I think the elevation change is what's different about this golf course than most links courses we play, much flatter.   
But I'm looking forward to the challenge.   It's so hard to say, because they can go with so many ways with the golf course and how they set it up and the conditions.   There's so many things up in the air, yeah, we'll just have to wait and see.  
   
 Q.   I missed the first part, do you like this place?   Have you thrived here in the past?   What's cooking for you today?  
RYAN MOORE:   Yeah, this is a place I've played very well over the years.   I finished second in 2007 or '08.   I've had another top‑5 or so, a few other top‑10s and seem to be‑‑ I've had a lot of good scores on this golf course.   And I think that's what I like about it, I think it's a good, fair test of golf where you can go shoot 5 or 6‑under on this golf course, but you start going the wrong way a little bit, and you just as easily go shoot 1 or 2‑over.   
To me that's the sign of a good golf course.   It gives you a chance.   If you hit the right shots, you can hit birdies and eagles, potentially, but if you hit a few of the wrong ones you make bogeys real fast.   I think that's what's fun about it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT