VALSPAR CHAMPIONSHIP
March 14, 2015
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  DOUG MILNE:   We'll just go ahead and jump right in.   Ryan Moore, thanks for joining us for a few minutes after a successful 4-under, 67 Round 3 at the Valspar Championship.   
Your 9th start in the event.   54 hole leader by one.   Few comments today.   I think the term you used was the course is defending itself out there.   With that, just a few comments on the round and heading into tomorrow.  
RYAN MOORE:   Yeah.   I just think it is one of those golf courses that defends itself very well no matter what the conditions.   It's just not a golf course you can force your will upon.   You kind of have to let it dictate what you do a little bit, you know, off the tees and, you know, I just had a good solid day.   I think I had no bogies, right?   I can't think of making any.  
DOUG MILNE:   Correct.  
RYAN MOORE:   Any day around this golf course with no bogies is pretty good especially the spots where I hit it.   I was able to save par really low in the middle of my round, made some good putts but had some good chip shots.   Was able to get it rolling there and make some birdies coming in.  
   
 Q.   You started with 12 straight pars, I think.   At that point were you just kind of trying to hang on and then did something change from 13 on?  
RYAN MOORE:   Not really, no.   I mean it's just -- it was windy, it was tough.   It wasn't easy to get it around the hole.   I missed a really short putt, maybe a four, four and a half footer, something like that on 1.   I had another maybe 9, 10-footer on 2.   
I missed two really good opportunities early which you kind of kick yourself on this golf course because it would be awhile before you have another really good birdie chance like that.   
I stayed patient, just kept hitting pretty good shots and, again, when I hit bad ones I hit good chips or maybe good putt to save it.   I just kind of kept plotting along.   
I knew it was going to be tough.   I knew it wasn't going -- no one is going to run away today just with that much wind and it doesn't matter, just being patient and knowing hey, let's stay in this, let's try to make a couple birdies coming in and stay right up there.  
   
 Q.   I think 12 straight pars constituted a charge today with those conditions.  
RYAN MOORE:   Pretty much, yeah.   I was not disappointed being even par through 12 holes.   That's for sure with the conditions.  
You know, there's a lost bogies to be made on this golf course today and, you know, I was able to keep myself away from them somehow.  
   
 Q.   The rough isn't a foot deep but just the low scoring almost give you a U.S. Open feel?   Not quite.   
RYAN MOORE:   Not quite.   This course always plays tough.   It's not one again that no one ever runs away and shoots 18 or 20-under on this golf course or to my knowledge, since I've been here, pretty much as far as I can remember.  
But, yeah, I mean it's just a course, you know, shooting 2, 3-under on it is a really good golf score every single day and I was surprised, I don't know if I'm tied for the lead or leading it, I don't know, but I'm 9-under which is 3-under a day.   
I'm right up there.   You kind of know that starting the week here and I've been playing some good solid golf to get there.  
   
 Q.   Ryan, you've got some great players chasing you right behind.   What is it going to take to hold them off and win?  
RYAN MOORE:   I mean just doing what I've been doing the last three days.   Control my ball really nicely.   I did give myself enough birdie chances throughout the day.   You know, got to keep doing exactly what I'm doing.   Just playing good, solid golf.   Kind of believe that's what wins around this golf course.  
   
 Q.   Ryan, 54-hole lead don't have a very good track record on Tour this year.   Do you like having the lead going into the final day?   What's your history when you have one?  
RYAN MOORE:   I don't know my history when I have one.   Pretty much I'm trying to shoot as low as I can every single day, every single round and wherever I end up at the end of the day, that is it, whether that's the lead -- I played as good as I can to this point.   That's great.   
I don't really look at it as having a lead or this or that.   I've played good golf and somehow that's gotten me on top after three days and got to continue to do that to stay on top and end up on top on Sunday.   I don't really -- I don't really think about it that way.  
   
 Q.   Is it almost easier given the packed leaderboard, all these good players right behind you, you don't have to think about playing safe or whatever.   
With all those guys with the same number, somebody is going to shoot a decent score so you know you have to anyways.  
RYAN MOORE:   Yeah.   On Tour, I mean you just have to play good golf to win, period.   That's how it works.   You don't get it handed to you very often.   You know, there's always someone behind you that's ready to go shoot 5, 6-under and, you know, chase you down.  
I got to go out and, just like I said, kind of play how I have been playing and, you know, post what I can and see where that lands me.  
   
 Q.   Pretty far into the season already.   Do you feel like you're on your way to your best season ever?  
RYAN MOORE:   It's hard to say.   Pretty similar start to my season last year but I didn't get myself in a lead after 54 holes at this stretch of my year last year.   I played better last week in Miami than I played last year.   I'd say at this stretch of golf, this part of my season, I'm definitely playing better golf than I was last year and it's just been putting a lot of good work in and just working on little things, just to try and get all the little pieces to work together.   I think that's kind of how it works.  
   
 Q.   Any key to the consistency that you have had for the stretch?  
RYAN MOORE:   Not really.   My coach and I keep it pretty simple.   We don't -- clearly I have a pretty weird golf swing.   We don't try and change too much about it but, you know, it's just figuring out what I'm not doing very well and working on it and try to make it better, you know, whether that's driving, whether that's wedges, whether that's bunker play, whatever it is, just constantly trying to work on the little things that aren't where I want them to be and try to make them better, and everything gets better, overall.  
   
 Q.   What was your one most memorable shot today, however you want the define that?  
RYAN MOORE:   I think the shot on 13 for me was the big shot.   It was not an easy par 3 especially with that wind.   It was hard to figure out whether it was really helping or more across.   Obviously you don't want to get that wrong with water short and with trouble long, you don't want to go long of that green.   
Stepped up and hit a great iron shot there, left myself nice 8, 9-footer right below the hole and knocking that in kind of got me going there on the backside.  
   
 Q.   What was the club?  
RYAN MOORE:   It was a 6-iron.  
DOUG MILNE:   All right.   Ryan, we appreciate your time and wish you the best of luck tomorrow.  
RYAN MOORE:   Thanks.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT