VALSPAR CHAMPIONSHIP
March 13, 2015
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   3-under, 68 the second round on top of 2-under in the 1st round.   Little bit better conditions.   How much better was this round than yesterday's round?
RYAN MOORE:   It was pretty good round today considering I definitely left quite a few shots out there.   I just hit the ball really nicely.   I made a couple long putts.   First two holes kind of bonus putts and kind of got the day off rolling nicely and really hit some great irons after that and wasn't able to convert on them but, you know, overall just making one bogey today and pretty tough conditions for most of our day, I'd say that's a pretty good round.

Q.   Weather laid down a little bit for you the second half of your day, did it not?
RYAN MOORE:   Just the last four holes it kind of died on us and went to like light and variable.   I don't know.   It was a little confusing.   You had it there and had it there really strong all day and all of a sudden it kind of goes away, kind of throws you a little bit.

Q.   After yesterday's play did you have delusions of a very high or low score winning this tournament?
RYAN MOORE:   No.   I know this course always defends itself really well especially with how long the rough is this year and you get a little bit of wind, it's tough to hit fairways and you're not in the fairways it's really tough to make birdie. 
So, you know, this is one of those courses it always defends itself and, you know, I didn't think it would get away from us too much.

Q.   Ryan, you've been playing great all year.   Are you going to break through this week?
RYAN MOORE:   That's the goal.   That's what I'm here for.   That's what I show up every week to try and figure out how to be on top after 72 holes. 
I'm close to the top now going into the weekend, you know, where you'd like to be and I know I got good people about above me and around me and I know I have to go play good golf.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT