WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 7, 2015
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How was your game today?   How did you feel?   
RYAN MOORE:   You know, it was a little up‑and‑down today.   I didn't roll the putter as well as I have the last couple days.   Really, besides just one really bad hole, I played pretty solid.   So, you know, obviously got to eliminate the big numbers tomorrow to have any chance.   But still, I hung in there and to make an eagle on 16 coming in was really nice.   
   
 Q.   What will be your attitude tomorrow, six strokes behind the leader?   
RYAN MOORE:   This is a really difficult golf course and it's hard to even pay attention to who is leading and how much ahead they are, because you've got focus on just hitting every shot as good as you possibly can, because as soon as you hit a bad shot, a double or triple‑bogey happens and that's kind of what happened here today.   
So I'm just going to go out there and focus and hit it as good as I can and see what can happen.   
   
 Q.   So you'll focus on your game.   
RYAN MOORE:   Exactly.   I don't worry about what else is going on.   I just try to play as good as I can and see if I can make it interesting.   
   
 Q.   Just comment, a little bit of a rocky start the front nine.   Just comment about that front nine and then how No. 16 sort of turned everything around for you.   
RYAN MOORE:   Well, I wouldn't say it turned it all around, but yeah, the third hole, I hit a horrible tee shot, followed by a worst pitch out, followed by an even worse third shot that went into the water, and you know, when you're dropping for your fifth shot on a hole, it's not a good thing.   
Obviously tried to salvage it but missed the putt‑‑ to start off with a triple like, that that's definitely not the way you want to go early on on a Saturday.   
But, you know, I'm telling myself just to hang in there, the course is going to play tough.   Everyone is going to have a hole kind of like that, something threatening a double at some point.   So let's just try and make some birdies and bounce back.  
Unfortunately made a few more bogeys but did throw some birdies in there to make it interesting.   Then hit a really nice tee shot‑‑ I honestly couldn't even see it.   I didn't know that I had hit it that close until I got up there.   Once I did see it was close, I was like, all right, this would make it feel a lot better, a lot less painful if I was able to make this putt, and I was able to knock it in there.  
   
 Q.   Comment on what you saw from J.B. and his game today and what it may take tomorrow?  
RYAN MOORE:   If he keeps driving it‑‑ tough to beat.   He's hitting it long and straight and he's got clubs in holes that I can only dream of having.   As long as he hits it straight in the fairway, he's obviously got a huge advantage around here.   
   
 Q.   How would you guys describe your play today?   
RYAN MOORE:   Up‑and‑down.   It was definitely a rocky start.   Didn't start how I'd like to, making a big number there on the third hole.   But you know, I told myself it was going to be a tough day; the course plays tough, and just hang in there, and see what we can get out of this round.   
I hung in there great.   I really did hit some nice shots.   Didn't roll the putter as well today but obviously to make an eagle there on 16 kind of made it feel a little bit better.   
   
 Q.   What's it going to take tomorrow for you to be in the mix in your opinion?   
RYAN MOORE:   I've got to play great golf.   J.B. is hitting it great and putting it really well.   He's got four or five less clubs into each hole than I have.   So I know what I have to do, and it's go play really good, solid golf.   This course is difficult enough, you never know.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT