WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 6, 2015
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  RYAN MOORE:   Conditions, although the wind was down, it was still very tough.   It's a tough golf course, and the pins were in really, really hard locations to get it around the hole and get even 10‑footers for birdie. 
So I was overall very happy with how I controlled the ball again today.   I may be didn't hit it quite as good as I did yesterday, but I still hit a lot of great shots, enough to be very encouraged about going into the weekend. 

Q.   With the course as tough as this, is there a strategy you use going into the weekend? 
RYAN MOORE:   You know, not necessarily.   You know, yesterday, I'm not going to say it was a fluke, but it was me and J.B. both kind of got a little hot and started making birdies.   The wind, the direction that it was, is probably the easiest wind direction for this golf course to play.   You know, if it just shifts a little bit to the east it changes a lot.   That's kind of what it did today and it was‑‑ just makes a few of those holes that much harder when it's just a little bit more of that direction.   You kind of have to wait and see every day where it's at and kind of go from there.

Q.   You've had a great season so far.   What is your practice regimen?   Have you changed it from year‑to‑year? 
RYAN MOORE:   Not necessarily.   Maybe things I work on, but I've been working with the same coach now for, you know, five, six years, and we just try and make things a little bit better constantly, not be too satisfied where I am, just always be working on something. 
And you know, just keep it simple. 

Q.   Can you talk about the wind, was there any indecision‑‑
RYAN MOORE:   Yeah, it was a little up‑and‑down.   It was much lighter today.   Might have been the least windy day I've ever played on this golf course.   But the pins were in places you couldn't get to no matter what, so it didn't matter how light the wind was.   But it was a little up‑and‑down at times.   Kind of gust up a little bit and then kind of died back down, but I mean, not any more than normal out here.   It's always a little bit that way. 

Q.   How about your putting yesterday, compared to today, what was it like on the greens?
RYAN MOORE:   I missed a couple makeable ones today but I also made a couple pretty long putts, and honestly, I hit some great putts from 30, 35 feet that burned the edge of the hole.   I was very happy with how I rolled the ball overall again today, hitting my lines and stuff.   But you know, some days you just don't read them quite right or you get it started half a ball off your line and they don't go in.   Yesterday I hit a bunch of really good putts right where I was trying to hit them and I happened to read them right and everything.   You know, was able to make a lot of them. 

Q.   Going forward, what's going to be the key to playing 18 well? 
RYAN MOORE:   I mean, you've got to hit it in the fairway.   That's all there is to it.   There's not much of a fairway there, but there is a fairway.   Just one of those tee shots you have to step up and hit a golf shot.   It's pretty simple.   I don't have the length to feel like I can challenge that water, if I just get one in the air, I can't do that.   So I've got to fit it in that 20‑yard wide or so fairway. 
Today I just favored the right side a little bit more and just take my chances.   If I'm not trees and I have to punch out, you know, it's not the end of the world, or at least it's not a penalty shot.   You can definitely get stymied or sit right next to a tree.   That can definitely happen where you're taking a drop. 
But for me, I'm trying to favor that right side just a little bit, and you know, I had an open shot from just a few yards.

Q.   Seemed like there was less wind on the course today but the scores weren't appreciably better.   Were the pin placements tough or just kind of playing tough‑‑
RYAN MOORE:   This golf course is really difficult.   You know, what you saw yesterday was someone shooting 10, and me being 8‑under through 12, I mean, that was two guys that just got rolling kind of thing. 
I don't know if it would have real really mattered what golf course either of us were on of the just kind of got things working and whenever that happens, it kind of doesn't matter.   I was hitting good shots and hitting them next to the hole and making every putt I looked at.   So I think that was more the players than the golf course. 
Today, I think this was how this golf course plays.   I mean, it's just a really difficult golf course.   The pins were definitely less accessible today.   It was really hard to get it around.   I know there was four or five of them that I honestly, with even 8‑irons and 9‑irons, was hitting it to 35 feet and was just fine being 35 feet away from them. 
So I mean, there was definitely some tough pins out there but you know, just a firm, fast golf course with a lot of trouble. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT