WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 5, 2015
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about the difficulty of 18 in particular today.   
RYAN MOORE:   I mean, it's a really tough golf hole.   No matter what wind and whatever conditions; if there was no wind, it's a tough golf hole.   I hit a tee shot that was just a couple yards left of perfect, and it started left and goes in the water, and then you're standing there with a 200‑yard shot straight back into the wind for your third shot over water the whole way with nothing but trouble everywhere.   
So honestly, it was hard enough that I even considered today, I was playing a great round of golf.   Obviously was 8‑under through 17, and I considered laying up off the tee there today, and just hitting a 5‑iron or 4‑iron, laying up again, and taking my chance with a wedge.   Just because there's so many bad things that can happen to you if you hit it right, because there's so many palm trees in there now; you could be stymied and taking a drop in a second over there.   
But the reality is, there's still a fairway there, and you can hit it.   You've just got to stand up and hit a good shot?  
   
 Q.   Is that one of those holes that sometimes is borderline unfair; they had the tees up today?  
RYAN MOORE:   You know, it's not unfair because everyone has to play it, and I don't think‑‑ it's not tricky.   It's just extremely hard.   You know, it not tricky where guys are landing their balls in similar spots and one ball is going in the water and one is not.   If you hit it left, it's going in the water.   If you hit it right, you're in the trees and probably chipping out.   
So, yeah, it's just a flat‑out really difficult golf hole.   
   
 Q.   What club did you hit off the tee?  
RYAN MOORE:   Driver.   
   
 Q.   Your run of six birdies in seven holes, what did you have going well?  
RYAN MOORE:   I was obviously giving myself good, reasonable birdie chances.   Controlled my ball really nicely today, probably for about 13, 14 holes.   Honestly, 15 or 16 for that matter.   Hit a couple bad shots coming in, but I controlled the ball nice, but I was putting great.   I had made every opportunity that I really had most of the day.   I only missed a couple putts that were, I would say, very makeable.   
So you know, it was a great round of golf.   It was something I'm very encouraged by, just to see the consistent curvature of the ball and to control the ball in this much wind; that's just something I haven't done in a little while.   
   
 Q.   What was your best putt?   
RYAN MOORE:   I really liked my putt on 7.   It wasn't a long putt.   I would say 18 feet or so, maybe 20 feet.   It was a little up, a little down, quite a bit of right‑to‑left and it was back into the wind.   Those are a little hard sometimes and you're putting downhill but back into the wind.   Kind of hard to judge the speed and the line and I just hit a beautiful putt there that just dived right in the middle of the hole.  
   
 Q.   Have you been working a lot on your putting?   Is that something you've been concentrating on?   
RYAN MOORE:   I'd like to say yes but I would be lying to you (smiling).  
No, I took a week off last week; I've practiced a lot, worked out a lot, done a lot of stuff over the last few months.   And last week, I just kind of, just took it off and said, all right, let's just relax and kind of clear your mind a little bit of all that, and let's just go swing and hit shots and play golf a little bit.   
Definitely found something in my swing.   My coach and I have been working on stuff for a while and kind of identified what I do wrong, but we haven't found a solution that really sticks once I get out on the golf course.   I think I really found something last week that just kind of made sense to me; that kind of made all the pieces fall into place.   
And with the putting, I have a lot of putters.   I think we all do, sitting around our house over the years of tinkering and grabbing stuff here and there.   I went through the room and kind of picked up a bunch of different putters until one just kind of felt comfortable and felt like I kind of relaxed.   
I don't know, I was just trying to find something to get my grip pressure‑‑ everything just kind of relaxed and just feel like I'm rolling the ball, like I'm rolling it with my hand.   I just found something that felt comfortable.  
   
 Q.   Have you used it before, that putter?   
RYAN MOORE:   No.   I've never used it.   It's been sitting in my house probably for four years.   I've never used it once, I don't think.   Not even for a round of golf at home until today.   Because I didn't even use it‑‑ I didn't figure this out until about a day or two before I came here.   
   
 Q.   Do you know how you got it?   
RYAN MOORE:   Yeah, I mean, it was the manufacturer.   I had used a lot of their putters.   It's one I just grabbed one time because it looked good to me on a putting green.   I don't know, didn't mess with it.   Yeah, just a little different lie angle than kind of what I'm used to, so I think I kind of shied away from it.   But felt good.   
   
 Q.   Brooks was asked awhile about‑‑ you were eight under at the time and he said, I don't know what golf course those guys are playing but it's just amazing?  
RYAN MOORE:   It's a really tough golf course, it is.   Obviously with wind, it just makes it that much more difficult.   
I think it's fair.   It's a very fair golf course and if you do hit the right shots and put it in the right place, you can have birdie chances.  
Now obviously you have to make some putts and in the end that's what I did today.   I made putts.   I think it's fair.   I think you have a chance to get it around holes and I think the pins for the most part today, with the wind and everything, you do access them, at least a little bit and get at least a 12‑ or 15‑footer.   
So, yeah, it was a very fair test of golf.   I mean, it's difficult but you can make some birdies.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT