NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 20, 2015
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Solid round of golf, clean   card until 18, I know you're a little disappointed about that but good, solid play.   
RYAN MOORE:   It was.   It was a great, solid round of golf.   It's just tough to have birdie chances that are reasonable on this golf course right now.   The greens are so firm and so bouncy.   I hit a handful of what I would say are as good of shots as I could possibly hit the last couple days and end up with 45‑footers.   
So you know, that's tough.   So you just know you've got to take advantage of them, if you do get one around the hole, you've got to make it and I've been able to do that.  
   
 Q.   You're a ball‑striker and you love playing shots tactically and to the right side of the fairway and to the right side of the green.   But as firm as these greens are, even a perfect shot, you can't get near some of those holes as you were saying.   
RYAN MOORE:   Yeah, it really is.   There's a few out there today, if someone got it inside ten feet, I mean, it's an accident‑‑ it's luck to get it around a couple of these holes.   It's as firm as they are, they are where they normally put the pins here but they are firm and bouncy and it's a little breezy.   It's a great test of golf right now.   
   
 Q.   Thoughts into the weekend?   
RYAN MOORE:   Just keep doing what I'm doing.   I threw a new putter in the bag this week and I'm rolling it great.   Probably the best I've felt with a putter in a while.   So I'm excited about that and just keep making all those short putts.   
You just kind of take it for what it is.   I know if I hit a good swing, good golf shot, oh, well, you end up 45 feet right.   That's how golf works sometimes.   You just deal with it and keep plodding along.   
   
 Q.   When you talk about the comments you're making about the golf course, is this something that you consider to be good or annoying?   
RYAN MOORE:   It's different than how we normally see it.   It gets firm‑ish some years, but this year it's very, very firm, very bouncy.   I don't mind it because it's consistent.   It's not like some greens are really soft or the front edge of this one is soft and the middle of it's super firm.   Once you're on the green, it's bouncing.   
             So it's very consistent throughout the whole golf course.   That's all I look for, if there's consistency, I'm happy with it.  
   
 Q.   Talking about trying to get it close, like the bunker on 2, or 4, your par save on 7; are those tough to get close to or just good chips?   
RYAN MOORE:   I left it on the correct side.   Honestly that one on 2 wasn't that bad.   Where it stayed in the bunker, I was on an upslope, that was not ideal but not a terrible place to be.   7‑‑  
   
 Q.   Left of the green?  
RYAN MOORE:   ‑‑ that's not where you want to be.   Had a few of those.   I've missed some greens, missed a couple in the wrong places, but had a couple nice recoveries.   But when the course is playing this tough, that's what you have to do.   
   
 Q.   2‑under through 10 after two rounds, how many strokes is that on the field?   Played it nicely.   
RYAN MOORE:   Yeah, I have.   The group was talking about it today.   That's the scariest 300 yards on the PGA TOUR, if not all of golf for that matter.   There's just so many bad things that can happen in a short span of time, and hitting good shots, too.   
It's just so severe, especially in conditions like this where it's so firm.   That's a really hard 85‑yard lob‑wedge right there.   For me, just take my chances, get it on middle of green at worse and the fortunately two days in a row I've been put in pretty good spots.   
   
 Q.   Without sounding offensive, how much is that skill or luck where your tee ball ends up?   
RYAN MOORE:   It's tough because there are bad places it can end up, but I feel as long as I can hit it long left, I can bump‑and‑run something up to the middle of the green, where if I lay up and hit a lob‑wedge and end up in one of those bunkers, you're looking at bogey or double pretty quickly.   I've played it both ways enough to notice that playing a lay‑up just doesn't work for me, at least not right now.  
   
 Q.   What's the putter you put in the bag now?  
RYAN MOORE:   It's a PXG putter.   
   
 Q.   Did you buy it?   
RYAN MOORE:   No, it's the company that I'm using their irons and their driver and they made me a putter.   I kind of told them some ideas and things that I like to look at on a putter and they made them for me.   It happened to look great, feel great and go in the hole right away.  
   
 Q.   Does it look like anything?  
RYAN MOORE:   No, it doesn't look like anything.   
   
 Q.   Did you just get it this week?  
RYAN MOORE:   I got it on Tuesday.   I was horribly sick, so I didn't do much practicing.   
   
 Q.   Is it a blade or a mallet?   
RYAN MOORE:   I don't know.   It's something.   Metal on the end of it.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about your puttingfacility at home?  
RYAN MOORE:   Oh, my putting thing?   Maybe that's working, I don't know.   It's just an idea; my coach and I joking around about a way to practice, and I thought, hey, well, if I put these two boards kind of like a wall so I couldn't move my head, because we were working on my head and alignment a little bit.   
So just went to Home Depot, got some stuff and put it all together.   Kind of helps me to feel my head staying quiet and not moving or anything like that.  
   
 Q.   You don't see the hole at all?   
RYAN MOORE:   No, you can't see the hole, which is good.   
   
 Q.   Is this in your basement?   
RYAN MOORE:   Yeah, I have a putting studio that's in my house.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT