CIMB CLASSIC
October 30, 2014
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   So just some overall thoughts about your round out there today, the 4‑under?   
RYAN MOORE:   It was a nice score.   I had a great finish to get to that.   I birdied the last four holes of the day, so that obviously is a nice way to finish off.  
You know, early in the round it was a little up and down, and I made some great par savers that kind of kept myself in it, and you know, but was really close all day to making a lot of birdies, so to finally kind of finish off and make some putts and hit some good shots and finished off with those birdies was great.  
   
 Q.   Anything change or was it just a matter of staying patient?   Did something click that caused that?  
RYAN MOORE:   No.   It wasn't.   It was just, yeah, it was more just staying patient.   I wasn't hitting bad shots early.   They just weren't quite turning out, and I missed a couple of greens in a couple of tough spots, and sometimes making good up‑and‑downs and par savers are almost more important than making birdies, and I did that early and just kept myself around par or I was 1‑under for a good while, and you know, just gave myself a chance.  
   
 Q.   And then overall, how is the course playing out there today?  
RYAN MOORE:   I thought it was playing fair.   I think it was playing very much like it did last year.   It was a little less rough overall for the golf course than it was last year, so it makes scoring a little bit easier.   
But it's a good test of golf.   It tests every part of your game and you gotta put it in the fairway, and once you're in the fairway, you gotta hit good shots, and you know, always have to make putts.  
   
 Q.   And then lastly, four birdies in a row.   It's gotta feel good, carry a little momentum into the second round; right?  
RYAN MOORE:   Well, yeah.   I mean it was a positive, just I made a couple of really nice putts, especially on the last hole, I made a nice maybe 20‑25‑footer to finish off.   The putt was in the whole way.   So it was nice hitting good putts like that and seeing them go in, and that never hurts your putting confidence.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT