THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
May 30, 2019
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 7-under, 65, off to a great start, some comments on your round?
RYAN MOORE: It was just a good solid day.  Really capitalized on opportunities for the most part.  Just hit some good shots and had some reasonable chances for birdie.  And in the five- to eight-foot range, they seemed to be lipping out, and today they lipped in a couple of times and kept the momentum going.  And was able to make a couple putts outside that range, which is always a nice bonus.  To go bogey-free around this place is something you're going to be happy with.  It was a good, solid round of golf.
Q. Is there something about this golf course that makes you play well here?
RYAN MOORE: I love this place.  It's definitely very high on the list of my favorite places to play every single year, and it's one that's highlighted on the schedule immediately, basically, once the schedule comes out.
I really enjoy this place.  I'm a Pacific Northwest guy, so similar conditions, always feels comfortable.  And obviously this tournament treats us just incredible.  It's an amazing week and they're doing such an incredible job of it.  It's an enjoyable week, but then I love the golf and the golf course on top of it.  It's a good combination.
Q. (Inaudible.)
RYAN MOORE: I've been a little -- I've had two kind of really good finishes, and then a bunch of very moderate golf up around that.  So I'd like to make it a little bit more consistent.  I'm a guy that can be up there, like top-5s and top-10s, and either I've had it or haven't had it this year, which is a little unusual for me.
But, you know, it is what it is.  And I kind of have to figure it out.  But it's really putting consistency.  I feel like I've been controlling the golf ball nicely all year.  And had up-and-downs.  But I've had an opportunity to shoot a score every day, but do I make the putts that keep the momentum going.  A lot of those have been lipping out.  And I had one that 360'd all the way around the hole today and went in.  I don't think I've ever seen a ball go that far around the hole and go in the hole.  So it's always nice to get that stuff going and get the momentum and keep the momentum, just makes you feel better.
Q. Where was that 360?
RYAN MOORE: It was on Hole 4.  I hit a really nice 5-iron there maybe 8 feet behind the hole or so.  And thought it was dead center, and it hung up high the whole time.  And it was perfect speed, caught it, went all the way around the hole and actually ended up dropping in.
Q. Where would you put today, a totally scoring day, soft greens?
RYAN MOORE: Yeah, I mean, just because the last couple of days it's been so windy and we've all been practicing in it.  So you go from something like that to go out in a morning like this.  It's been soft even the last couple of days, but to go out and it's calm.
We had great conditions.  It was obviously looming there all day, it could rain or just never did.  It got a little breezy on our last five, six holes.  But for the most part the first 12 holes was really calm.  Nice temperature, it wasn't hot, wasn't too bad to be out there.  It was a very scorable, very nice day to go play golf.
Q. You probably saw the forecast.  When the weather is better than you expect, does that (inaudible)?
RYAN MOORE: You never know around here, because it can come in really quick.  I'm never too confident.  Yeah, it looks really nice right now, and ten minutes later there's a giant storm over your head.
But you feel good when you get to maybe 16, 17, you're like, all right, we haven't had any delays, let's hope we get this in.  It was actually starting to sprinkle on 18.  I was getting antsy, come on, so we're not sitting waiting a couple of hours to hit a 10-footer on the last hole.
It's a bonus.  And we play so much, and we play in areas where we definitely get some weather, but it's always nice when it's looming and it just never really hits all day.
Q. I think this is your second time here you finished second.  Does that sound about right?
RYAN MOORE: I think so.
Q. Is that what makes you like the place?
RYAN MOORE: No, I mean, I think it's just the course, the area.  Everything about it is very enjoyable.  It's that kind of golf course.  It's a very fair test of golf.  You feel like you can go shoot 5- or 6-under every day, if you do the right things and hit the right shots and have opportunities.  But you can shoot 2- or 3-over playing similar golf.
I like golf courses that you feel you have chances on starting the day.  And it's just -- again, comfortable with the tee shots, comfortable with the approach shots in the green.  I love the greens, they're some of the best we putt on every year, being a guy that grew up on bent and poa.  I'm comfortable on these greens.
Q. How long is it playing out there?
RYAN MOORE: For me, I hit it pretty short and it's not rolling.  It's playing 5-, 6-irons in the hole I'm used to hitting 7, 8 into.  The greens are receptive.  You're hitting that 6-iron, it's not one hopping three or four yards, it's hitting and stopping within ten feet, which is nice for me.  You know, you can basically fly a 7-iron to the hole and stop it.  It makes us more comfortable being a little more aggressive.  And sometimes maybe you wouldn't.
Q. You have to adjust your game a lot given the conditions of the course and knowing it's going to play softer than normal?
RYAN MOORE: No, I don't really adjust at all.  It's just -- you go out there and kind of take what you can get every single day.  I'm trying to play the way I play and play my game plan and control it and just do what I know I can do and hopefully shoot the best golf score I can that day.  Today was a good day.  Tomorrow is going to be a different day and we'll try to figure it out and try to do it again.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT