THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 18, 2014
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MIKE WOODCOCK: We're delighted to welcome Ryan Moore to the interview room. Ryan, you're coming in with a 4-under par 68 today. You're currently three off the lead.  How pleased are you with today's round?   RYAN MOORE: I'm very pleased.  It didn't start off very good.  It was kind of going the wrong direction there through seven holes, kind of missed a short putt for par on 7.  And sometimes those can kind of get you going even worse, the wrong direction, and sometimes it can kind of make you focus and play good.  And for me today it kind of made me refocus my efforts and my energy and just kind of said, all right, let's just focus on hitting good golf shots and do what we can from there.  At that point I was at even for the tournament. I was able to make three birdies in a row right after that, and played some great solid golf the rest of the back nine and threw in a few more birdies.   MIKE WOODCOCK: Great finish as well, with two birdies to close.   Q.  How much fun is it to be in contention at this stage, especially to get hot there at the end as you did?  RYAN MOORE: I mean it's great.  I was playing along with Francesco and Thorbjorn.  And they were both playing some great golf and making some birdies early and I was making some bogeys.  I was like, all right, I've got to figure this out, because clearly this course is -- in my group, it looked like the course was being pretty scorable today.  So sometimes that helps.  Sometimes it helps playing with some guys that are hitting good shots and making putts. But it's fun.  It's fun to just go shoot a good solid round of golf.  I really controlled my ball well my last 12 holes of the day.  I put it in the right spots and just gave myself a bunch of opportunities.  I actually missed some really good birdie opportunities as well there on the backside.   Q.  Did you think there was a point in the round where conditions got a little easier?  RYAN MOORE: You know, the wind stayed about the same all day.  It gusted up and down a little bit, but it was pretty constant.  It was just a different wind.  So the stretch of -- I felt like 12, 13, 14 is a pretty tough stretch.  You can get very penalized if you miss a green on 12, 13 and 14.  And I thought for me the way I hit shots those holes played a little easier today just because of the right-to-left wind.  The tee shots were a little bit more comfortable for me for some reason.  And the second shots were a little bit more comfortable. But at the same time 1 and 2 were playing a lot tougher, I thought, with the wind direction today.  So I think overall it evened out.  It was pretty constant, the wind and the conditions stayed about the same our whole round.   Q.  How do you deal with knowing that a tournament could be determined, or at least factor in, if the weather is good for one side of the draw and bad for the other?  How do you deal with that as a player?  RYAN MOORE: Well, I've definitely never been on the good side of the draw in this tournament.  This is my fifth time playing it and I haven't even sniffed being on the good side.  So I know what it's like being on the other side. I don't feel like this year was too drastic.  I feel like some years it can be really drastic where you're playing in 25-mile-an-hour wind and rain, and it clears up in the afternoon and it's beautiful the rest of the day. It hasn't been that severe but it's nice to be on maybe the slightly better side for once.   Q.  Just your form in The Open in the last couple of years, do you enjoy the challenge of links golf?  And is that something that has come naturally or you've picked it up over the last few years?  RYAN MOORE: I do enjoy it.  I think it suits my game.  I flight the ball pretty low, and don't mind playing shots along the ground and landing shots 20, 30 yards short of greens if you have to. But there's definitely a learning curve.  I wouldn't say I played great my first three times -- well, maybe my first two times I played, I didn't play too great.  I made the cut at Carnoustie, which was my first one. But you have to get comfortable with it, I think.  You have to get comfortable with bumping a 5-wood around the green.  And the fact that you can't use your lob wedge that much.  There's definitely a learning curve there, and I think the last three times I've kind of figured out how links golf works for me, and I play that way.   Q.  Rory looks to have kind of got over his dotty Friday situation for now at least for the moment.  How much do you relish chasing him down over the weekend?  RYAN MOORE: You know, I don't think much about who's around me or who's ahead of me.  For me it's just simply I'm showing up tomorrow, I'm going to play as hard as I can and see what happens.  Usually in the majors it's one or two or several of the best players in the world that are going to be up top and that's just how it goes. So for me I like how I've played the last couple of days, and just got to keep to doing what I'm doing.   MIKE WOODCOCK: Ryan, thank you very much for joining us.  Best of luck on the weekend.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT