TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 21, 2014
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Okay.   We'll jump right in.   Ryan Moore, thanks for joining us.   4‑under 66 today after the third round of the Travelers Championship.   Puts you in ideal position heading into tomorrow's final round.   Just a few comments on today. 
RYAN MOORE:   Today was‑‑ it was an interesting day.   It was an interesting round for me.   You know, I just kind of told‑‑ I told my caddie‑‑ actually, we were just walking up 18 there ‑‑ or actually I think it was on 17, but this week I just told myself it doesn't matter.   I'm not going to think about my golf swing.   I'm not going to be worried about it or working on it after rounds.   This week I just want to go play golf and just see what I can get out of every single round. 
And today was a great example of it doesn't have to be pretty to shoot a good golf score.   I honestly did not feel great all day hitting the ball, but drove it well enough to kind of keep myself out of trouble, and you know, in the end, you know, made an eagle, chipped in on another hole and was able to make another birdie there on 17 and somehow stayed away from all the bogeys. 
THE MODERATOR:   Okay.   Well, with that we'll take some questions. 

Q.   What happened at 6?
RYAN MOORE:   Yeah.   I hit it right, off the tee, quite a bit right and straight into the trees, which is not a good place to be, and obviously walking up I did not think I was going to have a shot at all.   Just planned on pitching out almost sideways with the way the rough is.   And apparently got a really good bounce and chased way down the cart path, and I was actually still sitting on the edge of the cart path and I was only maybe 230 yards out.   So it had gotten pretty far down there. 
So instead of dropping it off the path, I actually had a reasonable angle.   I had to cut the ball a bit, but the lie on the path wasn't that bad so I went ahead and hit hybrid and just hit it right off it and hit it right onto the front edge of the green pretty much.   I was barely in the fringe, and then I knocked in about a 30, 35‑footer.

Q.   Can you recall last time you went three straight days making eagle, and then secondly, I know you talked about, you know, this course just sort of fitting your eye.   Do you get a certain maybe comfort level when you come here?   Obviously you've got a good track record here. 
RYAN MOORE:   As far as eagles, I honestly have no idea.   I probably haven't done it.   The biggest thing for me is I've chipped in each day.   Well, you could consider my eagle today a chip‑in.   I was three inches off the green in the fringe, so technically I holed that in, but I don't count that as a chip‑in. 
But yeah, I chipped in on 11 in the previous two rounds.   So I honestly can't remember the last I chipped in once in a round and I've done it three times this week.
You know, it's just funny how weeks go, and I think it's definitely comfort for the golf course, but this is the type of grass and everything I grew up on, and I think I'm comfortable with chipping and the putting aspects on this golf course and I think that's where the success comes from.

Q.   You said at the Open that you're not really thinking about your swing at all.   Is that an unusual approach for you?   How unique is this to sort of go out not having any swing thoughts or anything in your mind?
RYAN MOORE:   Well, that's what we all strive to do, but it's hard to achieve sometimes especially a day like today where I wasn't swinging it very good.   And I just wanted to focus instead of wasting my energy on trying to fix my golf swing, it's like, okay, well, let's just somehow get it in the hole, like let's figure out a way to just shoot a golf score.   Who cares what you're feeling like; let's just try and keep it out of trouble, and you know, shoot a golf score. 
I actually made‑‑ my last two holes I made four just great swings in a row, so I'm very encouraged about tomorrow, just based on how good I hit my last four shots of the day, probably my best ones of the day. 

Q.   Is this the first time you've ever taken this tact, just not to worry about it, just go out and play?
RYAN MOORE:   No.   I'd say it's something I do or strive to do.   But it's just hard sometimes.   You know, you start working on something when you're at home and maybe it carries through to the tournament and sometimes you just forget and just go play golf and not worry about it. 
That doesn't always work.   I've tried to do this a few times and probably hit it in the rough every single hole and missed a cut.   But you know, on this golf course‑‑ I just know I'm comfortable with this golf course.   I know I can play it well.   I know how to get around it properly.   So for me it was let's focus as much of my time and energy on that and kind of let the other stuff go, and it's been working.

Q.   You mentioned Wednesday that you were kind of frustrated a little bit during the pro am.   What have you kind of done these last three days to clear your mind and like you said just go out and play golf?
RYAN MOORE:   I know it's going to sound a little bit weird, but it's not practice.   You know, I got done with my Wednesday afternoon‑‑ or morning pro am.   I must have got done about 1, and the swing didn't feel very good, and I was a little frustrated, and instead of going out and grinding on the range for the next two hours I just decided you know what, I'm just going to go hang out with my boy and go play at the hotel and just relax and just get my mind off it so I can just show up the next day and just go play golf.   And that's kind of the way I've been approaching it.   I haven't practiced after a round this whole week, just trying to simply keep my focus on, okay, let's just show up every morning and go play golf.

Q.   With the finishes of that you've had here and the scores that you've shot on this course, is winning this tournament maybe the last box to check?
RYAN MOORE:   Definitely.   I mean I've had a lot of success, and I've been there a lot of years.   I've been in the mix going into Sunday.   This is a tournament I really want to win I know it's a tournament I can win.   And it's just a matter of going out and putting it all together for a week. 

Q.   Has it kept you fresh, the lack of practice kept you maybe fresh going into the final round rather than the grind?
RYAN MOORE:   I think it helps.   I think especially coming after a U.S. Open, I mean it's just a long, hard week.   So I generally don't tend to over practice here in general, but I've even cut back a little bit.   I think it's good.   I've kind of showed up every day with a good focus and just ready to go play golf. 

Q.   (No microphone)?
RYAN MOORE:   We have‑‑ there's like a museum or discovery thing right next door.   I mean my boy's only a year and a half.   So we went next door and did that one afternoon.   We went to the park yesterday and just kind of played in the park.   And you know, just little stuff, you know, just to kind of get you away from golf and go have fun with your family.
THE MODERATOR:   Okay.   Now we're good.   Thanks, Ryan. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT