U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 14, 2014
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. You hit the flag stick on 14.  Was that a bad break or was that something with a lot of pace or both?  Did you think it was going in?RYAN MOORE: Honestly, it definitely had a little too much pace on it, but the way it was breaking, I thought I had it.  I thought it was in.  It hit a lot of the hole, it was one of those weird ones where like it gained speed coming out of the hole when it, after it hit the pin, which is sometimes hard to figure out how that happens, but after it hits left center of the hole and hits the pin, I think it's going to pop out and be two feet away and it rolled out to seven feet.  And honestly, I hit a perfect putt there, that one is still a little baffling that it didn't go in. The next one, I just got a little low, but, you know.
Q. Significantly harder today than it was yesterday, besides the pin placements, as far as the state of the moisture on the golf course?  About the same?RYAN MOORE: Firmer, you mean.
Q. Firmer, yeah.RYAN MOORE: Okay.  Not really.  I would say everywhere else, you know, fairways, because they keep watering the middle of the fairways, so it's kind of the same.  The edges are kind of burned out, exactly like they were.  Everything around the greens is about the same.  There's definitely a little less moisture on the greens today, not a ton, but just enough where this afternoon should get a lot bouncier than it has been in the afternoon.  There's been enough moisture to kind of carry through, but that's also been with cloud cover the last couple days and we had the whole morning without any clouds kind of baking them out.  And a little more breeze, and a lot less humidity too than the last couple days.
Q. How much are you thinking about moving up, Ryder Cup, just whatever you can finishes at these big tournaments?RYAN MOORE: Yeah, I'm trying to play as good as I can every single day at any tournament.  That's just how it is.  All that stuff takes a back seat to just trying to play good golf always.  I'm trying to have as good a finish as I can this week just to have a good finish and for really no other reason. I like playing golf and I'm competitive and my best finish is 10th or ninth at a U.S. Open, I would like to better that.  I want to play better.  So I was able to better my position a lot the last two days and I'm going to keep trying to do that.
 
 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT