WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 1, 2014
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Today is moving day.   64 will do it.   
RYAN MOORE:   Yeah, it wasn't looking too pretty there the front nine, but I hit a lot of good shots.   The greens out there are firm and they're tough.   
It was tough to get around the hole, and I hit a lot of good shots that didn't end up close to the hole, and then finally kind of got a little momentum on the back nine and hit a few nice iron shots and made a few putts, made a couple bonus putts in there, and was able to cap it off with a nice birdie on 18.  
   
 Q.   You talked to the momentum.   Share with us about the energy on those holes, 15, 16, and into the close.   
RYAN MOORE:   I mean, Bill Haas and I were talking about it today on even 15 walking up.   There's just nothing like hitting a shot on 16.   It definitely gets you a little jacked up.   
It was 131 yards today, and I hit a 52‑degree and I flew it about 134.   I usually hit that club about 115.  
So, I mean, it just says it, there's a different energy in there, gets you a little pumped up, and, I mean, you can rip some shots.  
   
 Q.   A Washington boy, I'm assuming you're up for the Seahawks tomorrow night?  
RYAN MOORE:   Yeah, you know, I have been wearing the colors all week, doing the best I can to represent the Seahawks.   But, yeah, we're excited.   I think it's going to be a fun game, and obviously, you know, can't wait to watch it.  
   
 Q.   What was really working for you today?  
RYAN MOORE:   You know, I drove it a little better today.   I had driven it close to good the last couple of days but just not precise enough for as firm as these fairways are.   It was just chasing through a little bit.  
Finally I hit a lot of fairways today.   And I was hitting a lot of really nice iron shots today.   They weren't turning out on the front side, although I kept hitting good shots.   So I was stayed patient with it, didn't get too frustrated.   
And those shots turned into good shots now, you know, on the back nine.   I was, you know, hitting those shots that kept bouncing through greens on the front.   They were going eight to ten feet.   And then I made a nice long kind of bonus birdie putt on 12 for birdie, I think it was.   Yeah, 12.   
You know, had some good momentum and made solid birdies from then on.  
   
 Q.   Nice, I'm sure, to end up on a birdie and grab your son.   Nice 5, 10 minutes finishing strong and seeing your family.     
RYAN MOORE:   Yeah, exactly.   It's always nice walking off the course and seeing my boy at the end of it.   I'm a new father.   He's only one year old.   But it's great.   Nothing quite like it whether you have a good day or bad day.   It's great.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT