CIMB CLASSIC
October 28, 2013
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  CHRIS REIMER:   Welcome, and congratulations to our 2013 CIMB Classic champion Ryan Moore.   I know it was a long week, but to come back and birdie the fist playoff hole with a shot into the green to about three feet was pretty remarkable.   Just talk about this morning and go through coming back and winning the playoff.   
RYAN MOORE:   Well, yeah, it was obviously a long day yesterday, so rushed home and just tried to get to sleep as early as I possibly could because I kind of had a routine of getting up early and warming up.   You know, I was able to do that, and came back out this morning and felt good, just felt exactly like I had in the other day.   Playing a playoff with someone like Gary Woodland, I know I don't want it to last very long.   I had a great opportunity there on 18 with my third shot, and it was just an absolute perfect number.   It was 158 yards, a little bit back up the hill, so for me that was just a perfect slightly choked‑down full 8‑iron.   Fortunately it was a back right pin, too, and I like to hit a little cut.   It was coincidentally the exact shot I was working on on the range.   With my 9‑iron I was actually‑‑ I didn't hit my lay‑up quite as far as I had planned on.   I was planning on having an 9‑iron in and I had the 8‑iron, but it's essentially the exact shame shot, and fortunately I hit it right next to the hole.  
CHRIS REIMER:   Talk about being in Malaysia and getting a win in a tournament that I know you have loved for several years now.  
RYAN MOORE:   Yeah, I really have.   I've enjoyed it.   I would come back every year.   It was just the birth of my first child last year that stopped me from coming.   It's been just a great week.   I've enjoyed it every year I've come.   But now that it counts, now that it's a full FedExCup event and counts as a win on the PGA TOUR, it does so much for you.   To get a win this early in the season, it's just incredible, to be able to jump up, get some FedExCup points racked up.   I think you're going to see guys over the years, just better and better fields coming over here.   I think there's so much positive.   I think everybody really enjoyed it.   It was a great facility, a great golf course this week.   Obviously I enjoyed it.   
So it's just a tournament I've enjoyed, and I look forward to coming back to it every year.   
   
 Q.   Many congratulations.   Two questions if I may:   Knowing that after a tough week you got down to actually the opportunity to win just over a million dollars, did it affect your sleep last night in any way?   And before you took the putt, you stopped, you looked up, you cleaned it.   What was the issue there, nerves?   
RYAN MOORE:   On the first question, yeah, sleeping was not a matter of the fact that I had to come back and play a playoff this morning and try and win a million dollars.   It was the fact that I was a little bit jacked up because I just made an amazing up‑and‑down on the 18th hole to just tie and even get into it.   So I just had that little bit of adrenaline, so it was more getting that out of the system than nerves for this morning.   
And as far as‑‑ on 18, you know, I've done that a few times this week.   I've really worked on my‑‑ kind of my pre‑shot routine and my alignment, and I'm one of those people, if I'm not comfortable, I back off.   If there's something that just doesn't feel right, if I'm questioning it at all, I back off and I go back through the routine and I get in there again.   The last thing I want to do is be standing over a putt not quite feeling right and just saying, oh, just hit it anyways, and that's kind of where I was at.   There was something about it I just didn't feel quite right over it, so in that moment it's back off, go back through the routine and step back in and hit it.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel that competing so well against a field this strong gives you more confidence now going into bigger tournaments, majors and contending at majors again like you had been a couple years ago, top 10 finishes?   
RYAN MOORE:   Absolutely.   I mean, this was a great field.   We had a lot of great players over here, and I beat some of the best players in the world.   Any time you can do that, you're going to gain confidence.   
I've just been gaining confidence from what I've been doing at home and off the golf course.   I've been putting in a lot of time on‑‑ my coach and I just kind of looked at stats from this whole season.   I had about four weeks off between Chicago and when I was going to start in Vegas last week, and we just kind of looked at the stats and pretty much anything I was outside the top 100 on, it's like, all right, let's figure out why and let's go work on it.   That's what I've been doing.  
So my wedge game was one of those things that had been a struggle for me.   I just wasn't very high in my stats, my proximity to the hole wasn't great.   So we really spent the last month working on that, and it turns out that's what gave me a chance to even win the tournament.   I had an awkward 63‑yard pitch shot just to somehow maybe get into a playoff on 18 yesterday, and I was comfortable on it because I had worked on 50 yards, 60 yards, 70 yards, and had done enough repetition that I was comfortable.   And it's great to see when you've done the work and stuff like that to obviously see it come to fruition like that, to see it happen so quickly and affect your game.   
You know, for me I probably gained more confidence from that, the fact that I'm doing what I know is the right thing off the golf course.   I'm working on the right thing.   And then to see it work right away and actually affect the outcome of my golf tournament.   
   
 Q.   You've mentioned that this is an official events, sets you up in FedExCup points, you're likely playing in Hawai'i in January, and you get into the Masters.   Talk about how this win now sets you up for the rest of the '13‑'14 season.   
RYAN MOORE:   Well, it's huge, and I've been talking about this fall start since I heard about it as a really positive thing, especially for me.   I've always enjoyed playing in the fall.   I'm not sure why.   I won in Vegas last year.   That would have been a week before this last year.   But it's actually kind of funny, I won a week before my son was born last year, I won a week after this year.   It's a good time of year for me.   
You know, I think these events are great, and the fact that they count is huge.   I think it gives the guys a great chance to get out and get a good start to your season.   
For me it's the ability to go start without sitting around for maybe 10 weeks and then kind of trying to get back into it and get back into gear.   It was a nice little month break I had between Chicago and Vegas, and I was able to just get right back into it and get comfortable right away, and I think that's what kind of led to the win.   
   
 Q.   What does it mean for a guy like Gary to say something nice about you?  
RYAN MOORE:   It's amazing.   It's kind of funny to know that people are paying attention all over the world and all sorts of different places.   It was kind of fun last night, I got on my Facebook and Instagram, and to see all the posts and conversations of friends of mine and family and stuff talking about how they were up until 5:00 in the morning watching the tournament, and they couldn't sleep now because they were all excited and stuff like that.   To feel that and have that support, I mean, it's great.   
   
 Q.   Go back to yesterday's round for a few of the shots.   I think it was the putt at 16 that was a big birdie putt.   Talk through that shot, and then you talked a little bit about the up‑and‑down at 18, but any other shots yesterday that kept you in it that you can remember?  
RYAN MOORE:   Well, that one, that was huge there on 14, because Gary and Stroud had both hit great wedge shots in there, and I was right on it, in between yardage.   I was kind of trying to use the slope and I just pulled it a little bit and carried it a little bit too far so I ended up with a pretty awkward 30‑, maybe 35‑footer.   In that position right there I've got the two guys I'm head‑to‑head against there about six to eight feet, and I'm looking at a 30‑ to 35‑footer down the slope, big left to righter.   It was one of those moments where it was, just make this.   It was kind of weird, like I actually felt really good about that putt from the get‑go.   I'm not sure why.   Maybe because I made a 60‑footer on that same green earlier in the week.   I was comfortable with it, and it was not necessarily a do‑or‑die situation, but it was just one of those times where I knew that would keep my momentum.   It would keep me in the tournament.  
And then to come back out again on 16 after a rain delay and we kind of rushed back out and didn't get a warm‑up, I had a lob wedge in there from about 91 yards, and it was just a great number for me.   I was really comfortable with the shot.   I kind of had time to think about it and kind of knew exactly how I was going to hit it.  
So to come back out right away and I stuffed that in there to about four or five feet, that was obviously huge.   That tied me with Gary at that point in time.   I think I was more nervous on that putt than I was on the putt on 18 to get into the playoff, because it was just‑‑ the day was so crazy and all of a sudden they're just like, oh, quick, go, go, go, get back in position.   All of a sudden I was just there and had a putt to tie for the lead kind of out of nowhere.  
I mean, obviously that was huge, and then, yeah, the 18th was what got me here.   
CHRIS REIMER:   Congratulations, Ryan.   Three‑time winner on the PGA TOUR, and you're the 2013 CIMB Classic champion.   
RYAN MOORE:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT