CIMB CLASSIC
October 26, 2013
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  RYAN MOORE:   It was almost two different days out there.   I really got going, really hot early, making a lot of putts and making a lot of birdies.   And then kind of turned into the back side and still continued some good play and then just kind of hit a pretty rough stretch there in the middle and made four bogeys in five holes.   Fortunately I wedged a birdie in between, but kind of made a mess of it.   I had a chance to definitely separate myself and get away from the rest of the field, but all in all I'm still up at the top, and that's all you can ask for going into Sunday.   
   
 Q.   You had a lot of putts from around 12, 15 feet today that went in.   It looked like your putter, you were feeling it.   Can you talk a little bit more about that?   
RYAN MOORE:   Yeah, I rolled it great the first day, made a bunch of putts, some in that range and some a little longer, and then yesterday I hit just as good of putts and they just didn't go in.   I just was burning one edge or the other.   So I was still very encouraged about how I felt on the greens and with my putter, so I just kept doing exactly what I was doing.   I didn't go change anything.   I knew I was comfortable, and it always helps to roll in a nice putt on the first hole, and then another one on 3 and just kind of get some positive momentum early.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
RYAN MOORE:   I didn't see.   I was right there, but I was getting ready to hit my shot, and I really wasn't paying attention.   I walked over after it happened and then pretty much a rules official came right away.   That's up for them to figure out.   They obviously have TV footage to clarify it, and I hope they just are able to resolve it.   
   
 Q.   You had some problems on the back nine as well as your playing partners.   What is it about those few holes that are so tricky?   
RYAN MOORE:   Well, the back nine is definitely much tougher than the front nine I would say.   You get into those stretch of holes really starting at‑‑ even 10, that's a par‑5, but man, there's just a lot of trouble.   11 is a tough par‑3; 12 is a really tough par‑4 going back down the hill, just extremely narrow with a lot of trouble.   And then you've got 13 back up the hill, which is a really, really tough‑‑ maybe one of the toughest holes on the golf course followed by a short one that‑‑ there's trouble everywhere, and if you start hitting a couple bad shots you start noticing it a little bit more, and I think we all kind of started slowly just hitting it in the wrong spots, and unfortunately the group just had bad momentum there for a while.   We kind of all kept making bogeys and doing the wrong stuff.   Fortunately I was able to stop at some point and salvage and finish with a couple pars and at least have some good, positive feelings going into tomorrow.   
But it doesn't take that bad of a shot to get in a very bad spot out here with the rough the way it is, the fairways are as narrow as they are.   It's two or three yards off line and you could be chipping out or have an extremely difficult shot.   
   
 Q.   Recently the people at the top of the leaderboard are not automatically winning tournaments, but do you have something, some strategy psychologically to play the last round tomorrow?   
RYAN MOORE:   You know, not really.   I've obviously been playing some pretty good golf this week.   It's been a little up and down these last couple days, but I have enough positives that I've just got to kind of keep doing exactly what I'm doing.   The first day I put it in the fairway.   That's what made me able to shoot a score like that.   Today for the first 10 holes I put it in the fairway, and then my last eight holes I didn't put in the fairway.   That's how it goes.   You start hitting it in the rough, you're scrambling.   Obviously my first goal tomorrow is just put it in the fairway, give myself chances at going to the green.   I'm rolling it well, and if I'm putting well I'm going to have opportunities, and I know I'm going to make some birdies.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT