CIMB CLASSIC
October 25, 2013
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How did you feel out there today?   Not quite the round you were looking for?  
RYAN MOORE:   Well, obviously, it wasn't the round I had yesterday, but it amazingly enough wasn't too dissimilar.   I actually controlled the ball really well.   Obviously, just didn't make any putts, but I still hit some pretty good shots overall.   
I hit the ball.   I was happy with my ball striking.   I didn't get it around the hole, but I had my wedges and 9‑irons in my hands.   I just didn't get it to those 8‑ to 12‑footers.   I seemed to be in that 15‑ to 20‑foot range today and just wasn't able to convert them.  
   
 Q.   Well, you have to feel good about the birdie on the last hole?  
RYAN MOORE:   Yeah, it's nice to end on a positive note.   Kind of made a sloppy bogey in the middle of my second nine there on the par‑5 coming back down the hill.   So, obviously, wasn't too happy with that.   So, to at least finish with a birdie, had a great tee shot, great iron shot, and finally hit a putt exactly how I wanted to and it went in the hole.   I hit a lot of really good putts today that were just right on the edge, burning the edges.   So, overall, I'm still very happy with my game and where I'm at.  
   
 Q.   You play this game to be in contention on the weekend and you're right there.   So looking forward to it?   
RYAN MOORE:   Exactly.   It's hard sometimes when you feel a really low score.   But at the same time if I had just shot 5‑under, 4‑under, and I was somewhere near the lead or tied for the lead, I'd be happy right now.   I have to look at it that way.   I'm not 9‑under, but I'm at or near the lead going into the weekend depending obviously on what happened on a couple guys the last few holes.   But I'm in a great spot, obviously, enjoying the course and playing well.  
   
 Q.   Are you feeling any fatigue or jet lag or anything?   
RYAN MOORE:   Yeah, I'm pretty good.   As long as if we were playing at 1 or 2:00 in the afternoon every day, I'd be struggling a lot more.   But for some reason I wake up pretty early and I feel good in the morning.   But it's nice that we're going to continue with the morning tee times.   So I've adjusted pretty well.  
   
 Q.   So getting to sleep early then is key?   
RYAN MOORE:   Yeah, I think I fell asleep at 6:45 last night and woke up at like 4 a.m. to go get a nice workout in and get right out here.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT