SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 18, 2013
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What a classy round out of the defending champion.   I thought local knowledge paid off for you today. 
RYAN MOORE:   Absolutely.   Obviously it's a course very I'm comfortable on, and it was another perfect, beautiful day.   You don't get two days in a row like this in Vegas without any wind moving.   It was one of those days I needed to get something going and take advantage of it and try and get somewhere near double digits with the lead at 15‑under. 

Q.   Got yourself in contention here. 
RYAN MOORE:   Yeah, I mean, that was my goal.   After I made four birdies in a row on the front, I kind of got a little momentum, then my sights turned to, all right, let's see what we can do with this.   Let's try and get, like I said, close to double digits or in double digits, at least be within striking distance. 

Q.   That stretch 13 through 16 was so good to you last year when you won the tournament, and you took advantage of it get here today. 
RYAN MOORE:   Yeah, those are very scorable holes, but they're also holes with a lot of trouble on them.   You've got to put it in the right places, and I was able to do that today and take advantage of it.

Q.   I got to walk with some of your family and friends today; a lot of support this week?
RYAN MOORE:   Yeah, it's great.   We had everybody out last year, and everybody came back out again this year.   It was great to have a lot of cheers out there, and just having a fun week. 

Q.   Ryan, nine birdies on the day, a 63, got yourself right back in the mix.   How did you feel?
RYAN MOORE:   I felt good.   I started out making a bogey there on 3 and was like, maybe we've got to get it going.   It was kind of a little bit of a kick in the pants, and I got it going and I think I made four birdies in a row after that and kind of kept it rolling from there.

Q.   You did a similar thing last year on your way to the championship when you had the real low round early on to kind of jump start your week.   Do you feel comfortable with your spot now?
RYAN MOORE:   Yeah, a lot more comfortable than I was a few hours ago.   Obviously the lead is 15‑under, and I knew I had to do something today to get at or near double digits just to get in the mix.   I finally made some putts, hit some wedges close to the holes, got some kick‑ins and it kick started my round.

Q.   Roger Maltbie looking for details on the birthday party.   What can you tell us?
RYAN MOORE:   It's going to be a Mickey Mouse Clubhouse party.   It's going to be all sorts of fun, I'm sure, and lots of good food.   It'll be a fun celebration for a one‑year‑old. 

Q.   Can you compare and contrast the two rounds, yesterday and today?
RYAN MOORE:   Honestly the difference was hitting my wedges and 9‑iron good.   It's one of those courses if I hit my drives where I want them to, I have a lot of shots from 120 to 150, 155, so that's just kind of where I end up.   If I hit my 3‑wood where I want to and my driver where I want to.   Yesterday I just kept hitting those to 20 feet all day, and I finally stuffed a few and hit some eight, ten feet and was able to convert those.   The ball just got closer to the hole overall today. 
I played very similar in a lot of ways.   I drove it about the same, but I just got it a little closer to the hole and was able to convert. 

Q.   On a course you've played so much, is it ever difficult where you can get almost too comfortable?
RYAN MOORE:   Yeah, yeah, absolutely.   That's kind of what I did last year.   You know, I made myself look at this course like I would any other course that I was going to go play a tournament on.   It is easy to get lazy, and I'm out here playing and practicing when I'm home, I don't hit shots that I would hit in tournaments a lot of times, because why not, I'm just out trying to hit a shot and go for things maybe I wouldn't have.   I really kind of stepped back and looked at the course a little differently last year, and obviously that kind of paid off. 
So taking that same approach, and it is a little easy to get lazy and complacent on something that you're just so comfortable with.   I'm trying everything I can to make sure that doesn't happen. 

Q.   How many years have you lived here now post‑UNLV? 
RYAN MOORE:   I mean, the better part of the last 10 years.   I've jumped around a few different places.   I've been back here solid for the last three and a half, four years now.

Q.   Were you here a lot in the last few months? 
RYAN MOORE:   No, not really.   I mean, obviously with the end of the summer I was really busy.   I had a few weeks off leading into this, but that's kind of when they were struggling with the greens a little bit.

Q.   You didn't really come out then?
RYAN MOORE:   I didn't get to play it very much.   Obviously I play it a lot throughout the year and I see it‑‑ you get the advantage of playing it in different wind conditions and that kind of stuff, although the last two days like that would matter; it's just like playing it in a dome, which is a little odd for here.

Q.   How amazing is the transformation from what the word was, and then they get here and they can't believe how good they are?
RYAN MOORE:   Yeah, they've done a phenomenal job.   I don't think anybody would believe what they looked like five weeks ago, and it really wasn't their fault, it was just unfortunate timing and got so much more rain than we're used to ever getting here, and here it kind of hits different parts of the towns, and it kept hitting right here for some reason or another.   They did just some amazing work.   Obviously they put a lot of hours in just doing everything they could to baby them and give them some time to grow back in, and they're great. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT