SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 16, 2013
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Ryan, just kind of talk about obviously being back.   You've defended before, but this is obviously a different circumstance, in your own backyard. 
RYAN MOORE:   It is.   It's been a nice week.   It's fun to kind of see your face all over everything, so it's a little different for sure.
But just trying to go play golf still, trying not to get too caught up in everything and just go play another good golf round.

Q.   What has this year been like?   Obviously you won the tournament, then your son was born.   Just kind of talk about‑‑ I mean I know the last 12 months for you have been a little different. 
RYAN MOORE:   Yeah.   It has been.   It has been a great, great year, and my boy is celebrating his first birthday here on Saturday.   So last year around this time was a pretty hectic, crazy time.   But it's fun.   It's been‑‑ I can't complain, that's for sure.

Q.   Obviously the locals here have had a nice run of success with you and Kevin Na.   Just kind of talk about maybe either you going back to back or having another local get it done here on a course that's familiar. 
RYAN MOORE:   Well, yeah.   I would sure like it to be me.   You know, it's great getting to play‑‑ you know, I get one event a year I get to stay at my house, sleep in my own bed and kind of just relax and enjoy it.   You know, you try and enjoy those weeks as much as you can, because obviously it doesn't happen very often.

Q.   How many family and friends do you think you'll have out here kind of following you and watching you?
RYAN MOORE:   Oh, maybe 25, 30, 40, 50.   I mean it depends on who all shows up each day.   But I know I think I got 50 or 60 tickets that would be all handed out at some point.

Q.   All right.   Different format or different scenario here obviously.   It's a 2014 season essentially.   Just kind of give us your thoughts on that and kind of maybe how after one week and going into the second week here how it's kind of changed things. 
RYAN MOORE:   I think it's great.   I like the new system.   I think it gives guys a reason to come out and play these fall events and kind of kick‑start your year.   It's very different mentally kind of approaching it and thinking about it. 
But I think it's the right thing to do making all these tournaments count, make them all matter and give guys maybe more of a selection of what you're going to pick and choose and play throughout the year. 
So I enjoy it, and I know I can directly see the impact it would have had last year if my win had counted as far as points and how much further up on the FedExCup I would have been.   So I'm not missing out on these fall ones.   I'm trying to get out and get a good start.

Q.   I gotta ask you a question, the former Rebels had some success obviously last year, and like I said, you won here, but with Derek Ernst and Adam Scott, it was a nice season for the Rebs. 
RYAN MOORE:   It was.   It's always good to see those guys up there, and you know, always cheering on any guy that was a Rebel.   You know, if anybody's close and you're not in the tournament or winning it, you know, you're always rooting for those guys to play well.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT