WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 2, 2013
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about the round out there.   Obviously, tied at the top right now.   
RYAN MOORE:   Yeah, it was a really good ball striking day for me.   I think officially I think I hit 17 greens and the one I missed was one inch from the fringe.   So I pretty much hit 18 greens today and just gave myself opportunities all the way around.   
Obviously, I wasn't able to convert all of them, but I made enough to keep some good, positive momentum throughout the round and just really carried it through the back side.  
   
 Q.   You must really like it out here.   You were in contention for a while last year as well.   Talk about this course and what it does for your game that allows you to shoot these scores?   
RYAN MOORE:   It's hard to stay sometimes why you play well on certain golf courses.   I enjoy this area, and I enjoy this golf course.   It's one of my favorite tournaments of the year.   Sometimes just having a positive attitude about it going into it can make you play well.   But I think something about it just kind of suits me.   It suits my eye.   I like the shots, and I like bentgrass greens.   They're obviously a little rough this year, but you can still make putts on them.  
   
 Q.   How were the conditions out there?   
RYAN MOORE:   It's soft.   It's a lot softer than we're used to, and the greens definitely aren't up to their standard that we're used to around here, but they're doing the best they can.   They definitely rolled them today, and they were rolling better than they have been in all the practice days, so that was nice to see.  
   
 Q.   You made your move on the back nine.   Was there something particularly receptive about those holes that you were able to take advantage of today?   
RYAN MOORE:   Not really.   I birdied number 9 to make the turn, hitting a really good driver and really good 5‑wood just to get it there and was able to make a 25 footer.   I had hit good shots the first seven holes of the day on maybe the best seven greens on the whole golf course and didn't make any of them.   And then I got on 9 and dropped a 25‑footer.   I think that just kind of created some positive momentum there.   I was able to make a good putt on 10 and then made another really good putt on 12 just kind of carried me through.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT