MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 12, 2013
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about your day.   I guess the birdie kind of helps a little.   
RYAN MOORE:   Yeah.   Obviously it was nice to birdie the last hole, especially the 18th hole here.   It's a hole I don't think I've birdied very often.   So I hit a nice 9‑iron in there, a little knock down wind and just knew I could hit it really solid and it would be the perfect club.   And it came out perfect just underneath the hole there and was able to sneak one in finally.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
RYAN MOORE:   It's tough.   It got me twice today.   My two bogeys there on the back, on 15 and 16, I just hit perfect shots as the wind died.   And that's the hard thing about this place is there is no way the club I hit on 14 with the wind the way the wind had been or on excuse me, on 16, with the way the wind had been, there's no way that ball could go over that green.   Absolutely no way.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
RYAN MOORE:   Well, obviously, I don't want to go over that green and I know that.   And there was a reasonable amount of wind there and I just shouldn't have gone long.   And I hit it perfect, exactly how I wanted to, and it just didn't get touched.   
But that's what happens around this place.   It's tough out there.   Especially on the greens.   The wind's actually affecting your putts, the breaks and stuff.   So I might have looked like I had some pretty good birdie chances out there, but at the same time I had a left‑to‑right putt with the wind going right‑to‑left and just like, you know, it's tough to make putts.   
   
 Q.   When have you all those elements in play, is there some sort of, some sense of, I'll just simplify it and take out all the different ingredients before you hit, just standing over something and hit it?  
RYAN MOORE:   Well, I think sometimes it makes an easier some.   Like 11, for example, it's blowing 15 miles an hour, 20 miles an hour, straight into our face there.   And it was off the right, all the trouble down the left, and I'm trying to rip a 4‑iron into that green.   And it's like, well, you just got to flat out hit a golf shot, that's all there is to it in that moment.   And sometimes it helps me focus and it almost relaxes me so I just hit it, because you kind of have no choice.   You just got to hit a good golf shot there.   
Same thing on 12.   
So I was able to hit a couple great shots.   I really hit my irons really solid today.   I'm happy with that.   I hit the driver well except for maybe a couple drives.   And it's just hard to make putts outside five to eight feet with the amount of wind.   
   
 Q.   What did you have on 13?   How much did you consider going for it before you laid up?  
RYAN MOORE:   That was more of a wind issue again where I was going to be hitting a 5‑wood, a 5‑wood tends to get up a little bit higher and can get affected more by wind.   That's just how up‑and‑down it was.   I just didn't want to get a gust when it was mid flight and just drop down way short.   
So it was certainly enough club to get there, it was just a nice steady wind, but just a couple of those gusts that had gone through, I just was uncomfortable with it.   And I knew laying it up right there I would have a nice pitch shot.   And I did.   I put it in a great spot and wasn't able to convert.   
   
 Q.   Take me through 15.   Your third shot.   How much did you have in?  
RYAN MOORE:   I had 95 yards from there.   
   
 Q.   Hitting 60?  
RYAN MOORE:   No, that was a sand wedge.   I had the same thing where I just hit a 4‑iron to lay up straight back into the wind and only about 175, 180 yards.   I usually hit that about 200.   
So going into that green, obviously I'm counting on a little hurt there, last thing I want to do is come up short, and I hit to me what would be a perfect hundred yard shot and it just didn't get touched.   There was just nothing.   
And it flew too far and got me in a spot where, honestly, once I got to there, I really didn't mind making a bogey.   I just don't want to make a double from that point and do something stupid.   
So I was trying to barely just trickle it on the green.   If it didn't get on the green, it stayed where it did.  
   
 Q.   Was that the fourth shot?  
RYAN MOORE:   Yeah, I took a lob wedge and put some spin on it and made sure it didn't have too much momentum getting on to the green.   If it stayed within just a few feet of the fringe there, I was just like, I could have a chance to make a par, at worst I'm going to make a bogey and I can get out of there.   
   
 Q.   Pin placements today were some, were they more challenging than you've seen for a Friday?   Some people have said they were.   
RYAN MOORE:   Yeah, there was definitely some tough ones.   Some tough ones to get close to.   But, you know, I think it was just more a product of the wind and how tough the wind was making the golf course and how hard it made to even get near some of these pins, just because of the wind direction.   So that can just exaggerate a lot of things and I think that's kind of what happened today.   
   
 Q.   Overall, 71 yesterday, 72 in the wind today in the afternoons, are you happy with the way you played better, even though the score was different?  
RYAN MOORE:   Absolutely.   I was really happy with my round today.   I did everything I wanted to do.   I controlled the golf ball around here and put it in the right places for the most part and I got away with a couple errant shots, but that has to happen.   
   
 Q.   Was that at 7?  
RYAN MOORE:   No, 17.   I hit a bad tee shot there and happened to have a wide open shot.   
7 was actually a pretty darn good shot, it was just a few feet right of where I wanted it to be and it just worked out perfectly.   
   
 Q.   It hopped over and was perfect.   
RYAN MOORE:   Yeah.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT