MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2013
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Tell us a little bit about your round today. 
RYAN MOORE:   It was just one of those days.   I kind of hit it well off the tee.   Didn't get myself in too many crazy positions, but when I did, I had some great‑‑ technically a putt, but using my putter from the fringe, I was able to wiggle a couple down there really close.   So that kind of kept the momentum going on the back side.   Just birdied three out of the four par‑5s for the day and birdied both of them on the back for 2‑under. 

Q.   When you took the two weeks off, is this kind of what‑‑ with the driver, you were really hitting it, I think you missed one or two fairways today and you were really hitting the driver well.   Is this some of the work from a couple weeks off?
RYAN MOORE:   Yeah, definitely.   With that two weeks, I was able to actually take some time off, not play for a few days kind of the early part, and then really the last little while coming in here, I just went out and played golf a little bit.   It's hard sometimes, you take a few weeks off and you just go out and practice, and I just knew I needed to go out and play and just make birdies, and obviously it's hard to replicate a golf course like this, but just to go play any golf course and just make birdies and just get in the rhythm of playing, and today I just kind of went out and played.

Q.   The three putts that you had off the green, two of them you almost made.   Is that something that you've always done?   Is that something you've added to your game?   Is this something this week that you say maybe I can do that a little more‑‑
RYAN MOORE:   No, it's just one of those things, it was in the moment, for where I was, it was just the right shot.   You know, I had done it well enough a couple times early in the round that once I got there on 18 I was comfortable with it.   I had rolled a couple close, and once you're comfortable with the speed and the way they're going to roll through there, it kind of gives you an idea and I was able to knock that one reasonably close.

Q.   How good was the one on 14?
RYAN MOORE:   14 was really good.   I thought that might roll in backwards into the hole for a second, which would have been fantastic.   Obviously to get that within eight feet, I would have been pretty ecstatic, so to get it a couple inches away, that was one of my better shots of the day.

Q.   Tom said that the conditions were ideal, but the pin placements were a little hairy.   Considering all that how well do you feel you played today?
RYAN MOORE:   I like my round.   It was just solid.   I did a little bit of everything right today.   I had one little hiccup, I had one three‑putt, but besides that, I rolled my putts well, hit my lines kind of where I wanted to.   It's tough because you hit a pretty good shot like I did into 16 there, and I just had a lightning fast 12‑footer that you're putting them defensively.   Of course I want to make it, but at the same time you try and make it and you've got an eight‑ or nine‑footer, and you even power lip it and it'll go down the ridge 40 feet away. 
I seemed to get those quite a bit today.   Hit a good shot into 9 but I'm putting straight down the hill with two or three cups of breaks from nine feet away.   You know, obviously I'm trying to get that close.   If it sneaks in an edge, great.   You just end up with those out here, and you need to be patient and not get too excited.

Q.   You gave yourself a lot of close 30‑, 40‑, 50‑footers.   How much of that was you playing conservative, how much of it was getting into a groove with your irons?
RYAN MOORE:   Yeah, a little bit of it was getting in the groove, a couple of them were just poor shots and a couple of them it was just the right place to hit it.   It's one of those golf courses you've got to respect, and like Tom said, there's some pretty tough pins out there and you had to keep it on the correct side of the hole or else you would have no chance of making a par. 
It was a little bit of both, but that's what you have to do out here.

Q.   How would you rate your lag putting today?
RYAN MOORE:   We'll give it a 6 or 7 out of 10.   It could definitely be better.   It could always be better.   But I did‑‑ I definitely left myself a few four‑ or five‑footers, but that's just going to happen.

Q.   What did you hit into 13 and what did you hit into 15?
RYAN MOORE:   13, I hit 3‑wood off the tee and then I hit a hybrid right into the middle of the green there from about 230 or so.   15, hit a good driver there again, and I hit 4‑iron into that one.   I had probably 215.

Q.   Are you surprised how much that thing rolled?
RYAN MOORE:   No, you're never surprised out here.   You're just hoping it stops at some point.

Q.   Were there a part of the back nine where it really firmed up?
RYAN MOORE:   There's been a little breeze kind of wanting to come and go, but it's been more on and off, so we'll see what the afternoon holds.

Q.   This is kind of part of your track record, you're not too far under par, you're not too far over par. 
RYAN MOORE:   Yeah, I seem to do that around this golf course.   I'd love to shoot a round in the 60s.   That would be nice.   I don't think I ever have.

Q.   You did, 68 or 69. 
RYAN MOORE:   Was that a 69 that day?   I thought it was a 70.   Maybe it was 69, maybe.   I'm not sure.

Q.   You might go crazy if you shoot something in the 60s. 
RYAN MOORE:   Yeah, I wouldn't know what to do with myself. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT