JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 6, 2012
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  DOUG MILNE:   Ryan Moore, thanks for joining us for a few minutes, 6‑under 65 today puts you right where you want to be at the top of the leaderboard, 19‑under.   Just some comments on the round today here in your hometown, talking about how much you love it here, and then we'll take it from there with some questions. 
RYAN MOORE:   You know, today was just a good solid day.   I didn't do anything amazing, but at the same time, I just did what I've been doing this whole week, just put it in play, gave myself a bunch of wedges, 9‑irons into greens, and was able to convert a bunch of my reasonable birdie chances. 

Q.   When you're playing with two guys who are pretty much matching you shot for shot, how much fun does it make it knowing you guys have your own little tournament within a tournament going, and does it add any pressure because you can see right in front of you what is going on? 
RYAN MOORE:   Yeah.   You know, I enjoy it.   It's nice playing next to guys that are playing well and making putts.   Sometimes it makes that hole look even bigger when you see them just keep dropping.   That's what was happening, especially on the back nine today.   Both of them got rolling and made a bunch of birdies in a row and I kind of threw in a couple here and there and kind of stayed there with them.
You know, it's fun.   They're both great guys to play with.   I really enjoy‑‑ I've played with Brendon quite a bit but it was the first time I've played with Jonas, and I enjoyed talking to him, and looking forward to tomorrow.

Q.   All you guys played well on the back, a bunch of birdies after just surviving the front nine.   We see that year after year here.   Is that just the personality of the course?
RYAN MOORE:   Definitely.   I would say there are definitely more birdie holes on the back side than the front.   It doesn't mean you can't go out and shoot 4‑, 5‑, 6‑under on the front; that's very possible.   But for me this course works that way.   I just want to play good, steady golf, get a couple under on that front side and make the turn and get it rolling.   I was able to do that today and kind of did that my first round starting on the back side, really got going early on the back.   I mean, that's just kind of‑‑ I think that's how this course plays for the most part.

Q.   Seems like guys have always a different way of handling it when you're up there in contention.   Do you like to relax and not think about tomorrow or are you one of those guys you can't really get it off your mind?
RYAN MOORE:   No, I will be doing a whole lot of nothing tonight and not really thinking about it or worrying about it.   This week has actually been a pretty busy week for me.   I have a bunch of my wife's family in town and then a bunch of my family is in town, so really every night we've been going out doing stuff, going out to dinner, seeing movies, doing stuff every day.   It's actually been kind of nice; it's kind of kept my mind off it for the most part.   I've been fairly busy.   Tonight is the same thing, it's my wife's uncle's birthday party, so we're throwing a big barbecue for him over at my wife's mom's house, and I'm just going to hang out, hang out with the family and come back out tomorrow and just try and play some good golf. 

Q.   With the tough pin placements on several of the holes, especially 12 today, they were really tucking them in the corners, does your knowledge of this golf course give you a leg up and allow you to do what you were able to do? 
RYAN MOORE:   I mean, it certainly doesn't hurt on this course.   With a few of those pins today, like 10, for example, it was just a tough little pin, and they actually put that back there a lot when I'm just out here playing and practicing.   I see that pin fairly often.   I know you just have to hit it 15 feet short of that.   Even though I've got a pitching wedge in my hand, you just can't hit it to that hole.   There was a couple times today where I felt like I had a little bit of an advantage just because I simply know you can't be long on that hole or it's gone.   And if you put it in the wrong place, miss it too far left or something like that, your chip can then go off the green.
There was definitely a couple places where I felt like a little course knowledge certainly helped. 

Q.   You almost have to channel your aggression, don't you, sometimes on some of these holes and know that you can't fire at pins, right? 
RYAN MOORE:   Yeah, and it's tough sometimes because you have, like I say, a wedge or a 9‑iron in your hand.   I mean, I think that's been kind of the key for me this week is just not being over‑aggressive, not necessarily‑‑ you know you're going to have plenty of birdie chances, you know there's going to be some pins you can attack, so even if you have a wedge or 9, just hitting that smart shot, hitting it 15 feet on one side or the other and not trying to be too aggressive, and then I've been fortunately making some of those 15‑footers after hitting the smarter shots.   I think that's kind of been my game plan all week, and it's working.

Q.   You told me last week when we talked on the phone that you really would love to end the season with a win here.   The fact that your family and your wife's family and you have so many people supporting you here, would that make it extra special for you going home tomorrow knowing that if you can win this thing it's not just you celebrating but a whole lot of people that love you and support you are going to share in that moment with you?
RYAN MOORE:   Yeah, absolutely.   I mean, it's fun having them all out here, and I've had a ton of support all week.   Obviously it would make it extra special at this point if that were to happen tomorrow.   But I've obviously got a long ways to go.   I've got two guys that I am playing against that are playing great golf and then a course that's playing very scorable.   Somebody that's a handful of shots behind us can go out and shoot 7‑, 8‑, 9‑, 10‑under.   You've seen those scores this week.
I'm just going to keep my head down and just keep playing golf exactly how I've been playing all week and see what happens in the end.

Q.   I don't know if you were aware of what happened to John Daly today, 15‑over?
RYAN MOORE:   No, no, I was not aware.

Q.   As someone who's had his tough moments and just someone that's a fellow TOUR professional, how much can you empathize with someone who has a horrible day like that? 
RYAN MOORE:   I mean, it's tough.   We all have those days.   I had one earlier this year in Houston.   I had played two good rounds and then the third round it just‑‑ everything started going wrong, and it's just hard to dig yourself back out of it after you've made a couple double bogeys or two early in your round and you're 4‑ or 5‑over.   Then you play a little extra aggressive, and then it gets you in more trouble, especially on a golf course like this where you feel like you should be making birdies, if you get a few over par early, you just kind of start pressing, and that never helps. 
DOUG MILNE:   Ryan, thanks.   Appreciate it.   See you tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT