JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 5, 2012
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Stayed consistent today.   You didn't blow up or anything. 
RYAN MOORE:   Yeah, no, I, mean, it was a good, solid round.   I definitely would have liked to have seen a few more of those putts drop.   But I hit good putts all day.   They were just burning the edges, lipping out.
So, you know, all in all, I like my position going into the weekend.

Q.   What about going into the weekend with a little momentum being right there? 
RYAN MOORE:   Oh, it's great.   This is right where you want to be.   I mean, after the leader, this is the closest you can to it.   I'm one shot behind and obviously playing a golf course I'm comfortable on and playing really well, so... 

Q.   Is it kind of fun going into the weekend knowing it's going to be a putting contest out here?
RYAN MOORE:   Definitely.   I've been rolling the putter nicely.   You know, I didn't get them all to drop today.   But still hit a bunch of really good putts.   I'm still encouraged, and I look forward to making a few on the weekend.

Q.   The Las Vegas crowd will be cheering for you on the weekend. 
RYAN MOORE:   I appreciate it. 

Q.   Overall, tell me about the differences overall.   Still playing well, but not the score you had yesterday.   What did you expect? 
RYAN MOORE:   Well, I mean, I would have loved to see a couple lower than that.   Overall, it was a really solid day.   I hit the ball solid. 
Honestly, I had tougher putts today than I had yesterday.   I had similar length putts, but I had a bunch putts that I had to get a couple putts outside the hole.   I had a bunch of edge putts yesterday.
Overall today I just had a little easier putts yesterday.   I still hit a bunch of really, really nice putts today.   Lipped out on a few and burned the edge on a few others.   I was right there to shoot another 6‑, 7‑under. 
All in all, happy with the day.

Q.   You had the 50‑footer as well.   You do make some snakes as well. 
RYAN MOORE:   Yeah, that was a nice bonus.   Kind of got off to a pretty slow start making a bogey early and just a bunch of pars.   So it was one of those putts that just looked good.   I don't know why.   Sometimes you step up to some of those longer putts and they look like they're going to go in.   Fortunately just rolled that one right in.

Q.   You've been in the mix all month.   Tell me about what you've gotten out of that that would lead you to be very comfortable going into the weekend here?
RYAN MOORE:   For me, I've been happy just because I've been playing Ryan Moore golf.   I haven't been trying to do anything too special.   I'm not trying to go out and bomb it around the golf course. 
I have a certain way I have to approach this game.   I've embraced that over the last month, month and a half.   Just going out there and giving myself opportunities.   I know if I have enough opportunities throughout a round I'm going to put together a pretty good score.
I think I that's given me some confidence to just go play golf and not try to do anything too special. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT