BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 9, 2012
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You found out you're going to East Lake for the first time and gave it a double fist pump.   What are you feeling right now?  
RYAN MOORE:   Relief.   It was a tough day, and it's definitely in the back of your mind.   It doesn't make any of those shots easier coming down the stretch there.   I made three really good putts on 16, 17 and 18 really to sneak my way in there.   
   
 Q.   Can you equate that pressure to the pressure of any other tournament?  
RYAN MOORE:   Yeah, I mean, it's pretty similar.   There's a lot on the line.   For someone in my position, getting to the TOUR Championship, just what it does for you for the next year, getting you in the World Golf Championships, all that kind of stuff.   There's a little extra pressure always in the back of your mind, and it doesn't make it any easier.  
   
 Q.   Were you aware of your position?   
RYAN MOORE:   Not really.   I figured I needed a top 10 or better.   I figured that would pretty much do the job.   I started out great, played really good on the front, and making the turn made an eagle there on 9.   Feeling good, just hit a couple shots that just got me in a little bit of trouble and got going the wrong direction a little bit on the back side.   Then we made three really good putts on 16, 17 and 18.   I made about a nine‑footer on 16 for par and then a six‑footer for bogey on 17 and then about another eight‑footer on 18.   
There's a huge sigh of relief right now just to be done and to have earned my way back in.  
   
 Q.   When you made that putt on 18 what were your emotions?  
RYAN MOORE:   It wasn't much emotions at that point.   It was actually a pretty simple putt.   I hit a great shot in there, and let's hit it and see what happens.   It worked out nicely.   
   
 Q.   There's got to be a great feeling of accomplishment for you right now.   
RYAN MOORE:   Yeah, at the beginning of the Playoffs I was well out of it.   I was in 57th or so going into it.   You know, my goal was to get to Atlanta.   Obviously winning a tournament and having some good high finishes will do that.   But in the end, this was my goal, and I feel good, I achieved it.   
   
 Q.   How conscious of it were you out there when you were playing?  
RYAN MOORE:   You know.   I knew I needed a top 10 really to get the job done, or close to that, depending on how other people played.   But I played great on the front, 4‑under, knew I was comfortably inside there for a while, but I kind of got going the wrong direction for a little bit on the back.   I made some great putts coming down the stretch on 16, 17 and 18.  
   
 Q.   You kind of did what nobody else has been able to do on 18.   All the other guys are bogeying that hole and you hit it stiff.   
RYAN MOORE:   Yeah, I was fortunate.   I had made a really good swing on 16, my iron shot, so I kind of had a good feeling, and I had a perfect number.   I was 187, and it was just a perfect full 6‑iron, and with the wind direction the way it was, I knew I could aim the ball 15 feet left and be aggressive and just let the wind do the work for me.   I was able to commit to it and hit a shot when I needed to.   It feels good at the end of the day.   
   
 Q.   Going into the TOUR Championship do you kind of feel like you have nothing to lose?   
RYAN MOORE:   Oh, absolutely.   I mean, I just barely snuck my way in.   I know those top five guys control their fate, but I'm going to go do what I can to at least make it interesting.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT