DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 1, 2012
Ryan Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   A couple stretches on the back, 12, 13, 14, back‑to‑back to back long, lengthy par‑4s, how did you play those holes?  
RYAN MOORE:   I have to remember back a while ago, but I think it was birdie‑birdie‑birdie.  
   
 Q.   You can't even remember that.   Tell me about them.   
RYAN MOORE:   You know, I hit good shots, good iron shots, and had actually pretty reasonable putts on all of them.   I think that's the key is to‑‑ I'm putting it in the fairway, giving myself those opportunities with the irons and I'm hitting the irons solid.  
   
 Q.   Two straight rounds where you've gotten off to a quick start.   You did it on the front nine in the opening round and here on the second nine?  
RYAN MOORE:   Yeah, it's nice to get out of the gate making some putts.   I missed a couple makeable ones real early today but then got it going in the middle and capped it with an eagle there on 12.   It rolled into the next side and I couldn't buy a putt.   I hit a bunch of really good putts on the next nine and just burned the edge of the hole the whole way.  
   
 Q.   Your stroke was good, though.   There were a lot of edges on the back nine for you.   
RYAN MOORE:   Yeah, it was.   I was hitting my line and the speed was great.   I'll work on it a little bit this afternoon and keep it going this weekend.  
   
 Q.   Golf course change today?  
RYAN MOORE:   No, I think it played pretty comparable to yesterday.   It was a little breezy, just like yesterday, and it looks like it's going to keep up.   Yeah, there's some good scores out there.  
   
 Q.   64‑68 for you.   What was the key to the last two days?  
RYAN MOORE:   It was just putts today.   I hit it really similar to how I did yesterday.   Maybe had a few closer looks yesterday, but all around I gave myself a bunch of opportunities today, and my second nine, which was the front, I couldn't buy a putt.   I hit some really good ones right where I was lining them up, and it was just catching edges on that side.   All in all, very happy with the round.  
   
 Q.   Why is there such good scoring today?  
RYAN MOORE:   I think the course is in good shape.   I think the fairways are rolling out enough, but you're having pretty reasonable putts into the greens, and the greens are reasonably receptive.   Not super soft, but they're receptive enough that if you have a good mid iron in you can stop it around the hole, and honestly the greens are rolling great.   
   
 Q.   Can you just describe the round to begin with and the eagle there at 18?   
RYAN MOORE:   Yeah, I mean, I started out hitting it good and solid early in the round and was able to capitalize on 12, 13, 14, made three good birdies in a row there.   That's always a nice way to get things going.   
And then hit a great shot in there into 18 and was able to sneak in that six‑footer for eagle.   That was a nice way to end.   Then just made the turn and honestly played really solid my second nine but just burned edges the whole way around.   I hit a bunch of good putts right where I was trying to and couldn't quite sneak them in there.   
   
 Q.   Talk a little bit about playing with Noh today.   You were both playing really well.   
RYAN MOORE:   It's always nice playing with somebody that's playing really well.   It makes the cup seem that much bigger when you've got somebody else in the group pouring in putts.   That was the case yesterday.   I think we both didn't play quite as well as we did yesterday, but he's a great player, and I've enjoyed playing with him.  
   
 Q.   Not a lot of people confused him today for Kevin Na?  
RYAN MOORE:   I certainly don't.  
   
 Q.   What was the difference between yesterday and today in your game?   
RYAN MOORE:   You know, for me it was putting.   I putted great yesterday, really pretty much made every good birdie chance or good par saving opportunity that I had.   Today I made some on the front, on my first nine, and then the second nine I did hit some good shots and just didn't capitalize.   I hit good putts and just burned the edges.   That's how it goes sometimes.   I'm happy with how I'm putting and how I'm rolling it, just going to go work on the alignment a little bit and get it squared away.  
   
 Q.   When you make a six‑footer for eagle there, I guess you've got to take stock of where you are in the tournament, but at that point did you see who you were tied with?   
RYAN MOORE:   Oh, I don't know.   I was just playing good, and making the turn I really wasn't paying much attention and don't intend to.   I was just making the turn and continued doing whatever I was doing today, which was hitting good shots and trying to make putts.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT