ICC WOMEN'S WORLD T20
February 28, 2020
Sarah Glenn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
England - 158/7, Pakistan - 116   
 Q.  Sarah, you've enjoyed a pretty impressive start to your international career. Has it exceeded even your expectations the first few months?  
SARAH GLENN: Yeah, definitely. Obviously it's always something I've dreamed of doing, but I never thought I'd kind of get this far as I should be in here for the World Cup, so yeah, it's really exciting for me, but I think a lot of the girls helped me get there, kind of just their support of me and helping me fit in, so I think that was a big factor for how I've got here, as well.   
 Q.  Australia's legspinners like to come and bowl. I assume there's a bit more bounce we've seen in pictures of you. Have you enjoyed conditions out here the last few weeks?  
SARAH GLENN: Yeah, definitely. It was quite hard to start with. It was kind of -- you couldn't really give any width; obviously the outfield is so quick out here, so you kind of knew you had to stick stump to stump. I learned that the hard way at the start. But I do like the extra bounce you can get out here, and I quite like bowling out here, as well. Yeah, I'm enjoying it.   
 Q.  Since you've come into the team, it seems like you've been given license to give the ball flight and to bowl in your natural way. Talk about the direction you've been given from team management and your role in the team.  
SARAH GLENN: So I'm just kind of following on from Super League back at home. I kind of just had a basic plan of how I was going about bowling, and when I discussed that with them at Loughborough before heading out to Malaysia, then heading out here, they kind of agreed to just keep it the same and keep it basic, and on the side of that, I'm still working on variations as I go along to naturally bring into my game, so that's kind of the role I'm trying to play. And I'm hoping just to keep working on my batting, as well, to come in near the back end.   
 Q.  So it was very much more the same; there was no sort slow down, speed up, it was kind of we just want to see the domestic form translate directly?  
SARAH GLENN: Yeah, pretty much, because I've kind of always grown up, kind of how I bowl, I've always bowled stump to stump because I don't naturally get quite as much turn, and that's what you kind of see out here, then with the extra bounce it's obviously better to do that with kind of going stump to stump than actual width. And I think because it's new to me, as well, they kind of want to throw low. So instead of telling me what to change this, change that, I think they've just told me to keep it quite simple and just kind of back that.   
 Q.  There was talk for a long time about England trying to find a legspinner. I think it was a long-term project about sort of going around the country, trying to find that mystery spinner. How nice is it to start to feel like you must be the answer to that?  
SARAH GLENN: Yeah, it's nice. It's nice to hear kind of the feedback I've got also from like family and friends at home because I've kind of knew they were looking for a legspinner, but I also know how tough competition is back at home. I know some brilliant legspinners back at home, as well. I think even though I'm in that position at the minute, I think I'm going to keep working hard because people up and coming who are really talented.   
 Q.  Who's pushing you for that role?  
SARAH GLENN: Some legspinners, there's Sophie Dunkley, she can get a lot of turn on the ball; Helen Fenby, and a couple of cant players who are up and coming, so I'm just go to keep always pushing like I am.   
 Q.  Looking at today's game, you know you guys have a pretty good record now at Manuka Oval. Is it sad to kind of move on from here and go to Sydney?  
SARAH GLENN: Yeah, definitely. I think we've had a lot of success here, especially Heather Knight. She's had a brilliant time here, so a lot of good memories. But it's nice to leave it in a good place, as well, and kind of take that momentum towards going to Sydney.   
 Q.  Speaking of Heather, how vital was she in today's win?  
SARAH GLENN: Yeah, very vital. She's really good at kind of anchoring innings but at the same time pushing the game forward and going hard at the bowlers, as well, so yeah, she's very crucial.   
 Q.  How have you enjoyed building the bowling partnership with Sophie? Is it nice to have someone to bounce ideas off and work in tandem with?  
SARAH GLENN: Yeah, definitely. I think it helps, obviously we're a similar age, as well, but she's got a few more experiences on me kind of in terms of the England side. If at any time I was kind of nervous or unsure about something, she's kind of always there to talk it through with, kind of on and off the field, so yeah, she's a real key asset to the team.   
 Q.  Are you someone either have you been told or is it in your own makeup that you don't worry too much if a batsman hits you for a boundary? We saw you come back today from one with a wicket the next ball. Is that something you've learned as you've grown up being a legspinner; it kind of goes with the trade sometimes?  
SARAH GLENN: I've kind of just learnt to try not to beat myself up about it, especially in T20 because someone is going to play some really good shots, and even if you bowl a good ball, it can still go for a boundary. So I'm trying to just learn not to beat myself up for it and focus on the next ball and kind of park it.   
 Q.  What's the overall feeling in the group now that you're kind of back on course to get to the semifinals with just this match against the West Indies to go?  
SARAH GLENN: Yeah, really positive. Obviously it was gutting to lose the match against South Africa, and with it being so close, as well. I thought we did really well to take it down to the last over. But with the punch-back we had to Thailand and taking that momentum into this game, we're feeling really good, really positive, and just going to keep it simple, keep backing our strengths going in to play against the West Indies.   
 Q.  Was there any feeling amongst the batsmen specifically that it was a little bit disappointing not to finish the innings more strongly?  
SARAH GLENN: I mean, I think we anchored the innings quite well and during the middle, so I think that allows us to go hard at the end, and sometimes you can go hard and it pulls off and some days it doesn't, but I think as long as we get into that position, I think we're fairly happy, no matter kind of -- obviously we always want to end it well, but as long as we can give us room to go hard at the end, I think that's important.   
 Q.  You've got huge respect for your captain, obviously, but you got a lot of wickets in Malaysia and you didn't get Player of the Series; seeing the 15 today, it's a batsman's game, isn't it?  
SARAH GLENN: Yeah, it is. Throw me in the deep there. Sell me down the river.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT