NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 22, 2002
Alexandra Stevenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







ALEXANDRA STEVENSON



Q.  Can you just talk a little bit about your match today, was it interrupted by rain at all?  Were you able to play through? 

ALEXANDRA STEVENSON:  Well, I was able to play through.  I kind of wanted to break her again.  But I didn't.  So, I just had to focus on my serve the next game, and it's always kind of upsetting when the rain comes down.  You're like, "Come on, stop.  I want to finish."  But it was all right.  We didn't have to go off the court so, that was okay. 

Q.  Where do you feel your game is right now?  Is it starting to get where you want it to be?

ALEXANDRA STEVENSON:  Yeah.  Every match I think I'm getting better.  I've lost a lot of close ones this year, in the third set.  And I just need to work on that and win those.  And I'm just working hard every day on everything.  So, I'm going to go out and hit after this, too. 

Q.  Your next match against Maleeva.  Talk about her a little bit. 

ALEXANDRA STEVENSON:  She's a tough player.  She's in the top 16? 

Q.  Yeah, 16. 

ALEXANDRA STEVENSON:  Sixteen.  So that would mean she's just a solid player.  I'm going to have to go out and play great and play my game.  It will be a good match. 

Q.  Have you played her before? 

ALEXANDRA STEVENSON:  No, I've never played her.  It's my first time.

Q.  Is that always a little more exciting, or... Would you rather have played somebody you played?

ALEXANDRA STEVENSON:  I don't really mind either way.  Each time you play someone, it's a different match, a different day, a different tournament, a different surface, different weather.  So, it's like playing with the person for the first time.  When you go out, you're even.  As soon as you start the first game, you have to figure it out and win. 

Q.  Any aspect of your game you specifically are targeting to work on?

ALEXANDRA STEVENSON:  Just, I mean, I want to work on my volleys a lot.  I think that's important to my game.  I'm working on getting to the net more and just attacking and playing aggressive. 

Q.  After you finish these courses you're taking now, will that complete your freshman year?  Do you still have other courses?

ALEXANDRA STEVENSON:  I think so, I have to check.  I think this will complete my freshman year then I'll be a sophomore.  But it never ends, because I'm going to take summer courses too. 

Q.  Is it hard trying to balance it with tennis?

ALEXANDRA STEVENSON:  Yeah, the last couple days I was up until 12:30 and I was getting up at 8 o'clock in the morning to get to the courts because matches start at 11.  Everyone who has an 11 o'clock practice.  If you want to get in an 11 o'clock you have to get up early.  Yesterday I was kind of lagging and I had to take a nap.  I took a nap for an hour and a half and came out and hit.  It's tough, you have deadlines, you have a match the next day.  You can't do that much because you want to focus on your match and you don't want to be tired.  I have to balance it out.  I really haven't done enough of this week's homework so I have to do it tonight and tomorrow  - tomorrow day, not tomorrow night. 

Q.  As far as your career goes, a few years ago after Wimbledon, it seemed like you were bursting on the scene.  Haven't really achieved that yet again.  When do you think you can get back there and have sustained success?

ALEXANDRA STEVENSON:  I think this year has been pretty solid, and, I mean, it was just hard because I didn't really know how to play the game and I was young.  It happened.  But it happened for a reason.  So I just took it and learned from it, and now I'm doing well.  And hopefully I'll keep doing well. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT