U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2017
John Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Just kind of walk me through your match today.
JOHN PAK: So we were both bogey-free till 13 holes.  He birdied 1, I birdied 2.  He made birdie on 5 and 6, and I came back, birdied 7 and 8.  So it was a really back-and-forth match.  We were both playing good golf.  No one was really making any mistakes.  Make the turn all square, I think, and then he birdied 11, and I birdied 12.
So, again, it was back and forth.  I had a little hiccup on 14, the par-3.  I hit it long left.  Hit a good chip shot to about 6 feet and just barely missed the putt.  Then 16, he hit it around 20 feet.  I was in there maybe 18 feet, just drained it.  I barely missed a putt.
So then our 17th hole, hits it to about 25 feet.  I was dormie at that point, so I tried being a little aggressive, pulled it into the water and that ended the match.  But, yeah, he played great golf.  I played solid all day, just got beat.  No one really lost.  He just won.
Q. Was there sort of an approach that you took coming into today?  Were you kind of just laying it up?  Were you being a little more aggressive or getting the feel for the kind of approach he was taking?
JOHN PAK: Going into this match, I never had a doubt that this player was bad.  I always assume my opponent's a good golfer.  I mean, he's here.  He should be a good golfer.  So he kept me on my toes.  I played aggressive when I needed to, but, you know, putts just didn't drop.  So that's pretty much all.  Just a few putts here and there.
Q. You guys were all square through 13, and you birdied -- did you birdie 13 or was that 14?
JOHN PAK: I birdied 12 and parred 13, and then I bogeyed 14.
Q. So what happened in that one?
JOHN PAK: I pull it a little long left.  I had a decent lie out of the fescue, and hit a really good shot to about six feet.  I had a little left to righter, and I just overread it and just Barry missed it.
Q. What is sort of next after this?
JOHN PAK: I've got the Western Am and U.S. Am in the next month or so.  Honestly, I was 11-under in the three rounds I played out here.  I'm super happy about how I played.  Just a little disappointed about the out loud come.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT