U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 22, 2016
John Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Was that match worthy of a finals match?
JOHN PAK: Hard to say, but I think it was.  It was a great match.  We both played really great.  Took it to 20 holes, so that's a good run for a finals match.
Q. How are you feeling about getting this far even though you came up a little short?
JOHN PAK: Feels great.  Last year I made it to quarterfinals.  This year semis is an improvement.  Just trying to win one more match is just so match harder.
Just to keep going throughout the week it gets harder and harder and better and better players.  People are tired.  So I'm happy about the way I played this week.
Q. What do you think you gained out of this experience for the future?
JOHN PAK: You know, I got better.  I played against great players.  I don't know what else to tell you.
Q. Do you think you'll have more confidence now?
JOHN PAK: Oh, yeah, definitely.  You know, this is probably the biggest junior tournament out there.  Coming in in third or semifinalist gives me a lot of confidence knowing that I beat 153 players, 54.
Q. Let's go back to the putt you made on 16 to square up the match.  About 30 feet across the green.
JOHN PAK: Yeah.
Q. Tell me about the putt.
JOHN PAK: I was just trying to make par, honestly.  I hit it really hard, and luckily there was a hole there so it was awesome.  That gave me confidence.  Almost made a good par on 17.  That made me feel like I still had a good chance of winning the match.
Q. Then you got up and down on the first extra hole.
JOHN PAK: Yeah.
Q. Kept the match going.  Tell me about that chip shot.
JOHN PAK: First the second shot.  I was in it pretty big trouble there.  You know, I got lucky enough to get it out there about 30 yards away.
You know, I know Noah is a great putter, so I was actually trying to make it thinking he would have a chance of making it.
Ended up three feet away, missed the putt, and made the three-footer, so...
Q. And then the tee shot got a little bit away on the 20th hole.
JOHN PAK: Yeah.  I started spraying my driver a little down the stretch.  Just hit a little right and didn't end up in a great spot.
Q. Tough side-hill lie there.
JOHN PAK: Yeah, once you see someone hit it to six feet from 215 yards and you guys are all tied up, you got to go for it.
Q. And then you had no choice but to take the unplayable?
JOHN PAK: Yeah.  I couldn't even stand in there.
Q. Okay.  Thanks for your time.
JOHN PAK: All right.  Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT