CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
August 30, 2018
Karen Stupples
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
KAREN STUPPLES: I was pretty nervous.  In fact I started to get nervous last night.  But managed just to play and have fun with it today.  It was really fun, actually.  I enjoyed it and the challenge.  Who knows, 1-under par, that was pretty good.  It was way above my expectations.   
 Q.  How has your game been?  
KAREN STUPPLES: The last time I actually put a score on the scorecard was ShopRite in 2016.  So I've been barely playing any golf.  I've probably had maybe ten rounds of golf since that time, over the course of two years.  I barely do much anymore.  Jerry Foltz, has been practicing, he was practicing to try to practice for the senior British Open.  And I would tag along with him.  And I started to get a little itchiness myself to go and play.  Why not give it a go, and the opportunity came up here in Portland, I had a week off last week.  I spent a little bit of time working at it.  And came here, completely fresh.  And eyes open to the whole experience of playing LPGA golf.  Just the whole awesomeness that it is.  You've got perfect balls on the range to hit, fantastic grass, volunteers that do an awesome job.  And everything is just -- I'm just really appreciative of every opportunity that I can get this week, and trying to really soak it all in and enjoy everything I can.   
 Q.  During the round, was there anything that had stuck out to you about the course or talking to your caddie that you had never anticipated?  
KAREN STUPPLES: I think the calm that I felt when I hit it to trouble.  It really didn't worry me like it used to.  I didn't get stressed when I hit it in the trees.  You know what, I'll just pitch it out and hit a wedge.  And for some reason my irons have been really good in practice, so I just trusted them.   
But what I do find amazing is walking around playing this golf course now, last time I played it was in '13.  I noticed an orchard on the left of 15.  I didn't ever see that before.  There's pears and there's apples.  And I think it's just taking the time to smell the roses.   
But the tee shot on that one hole, I hit a really good 3-wood.  Okay, this is it.  You're going to be fine.  Stop pansying it around, just go ahead and hit the ball.   
 Q.  How much do you want to make the cut?  
KAREN STUPPLES: Obviously I'd love to.  Love to make the cut.  Love to keep playing, but more importantly I'd like to make Cambia proud that they gave me the invite and I'd like to give my caddie, John Schiffer, the best caddie week he could possibly have, if you take money and winning out of the equation.  And I just want to play good shots.  And whatever the number is on the card is going to be that.  I just want to play good shots and have fun and the excitement you get from hitting out of the sweet spot.  That's critical.  These fairways are so great to hit it from.  It's a great feeling.   
 Q.  As a competitor, feeling just that adrenaline rush of being out here, do you think you'll be playing out here more?  
KAREN STUPPLES: I'm certainly hitting it five yards longer today than I have done in practice, just with that extra adrenaline.  I really enjoy my job at Golf Channel.  I think the fact that I still can come and play and put good shots and piece it together I think serves me well.   
But my primary goal is to learn so much again, is to be inside the ropes, to sort of dip my toe in the water and see how it is out here.  Just to feel that feeling again.  When I'm talking about the players I can do them justice in what I'm talking about.  Because I had tried it not that long ago.  I think if I can do that, maybe the odd tournament here and there.  It's only going to be one or two, because I do very much love what I do.   
 Q.  What were your reactions which when you found out that Caroline had withdrawn?  
KAREN STUPPLES: I was very sad for her.  I was very much looking forward to playing with her.  We'd become a little bit quite close over the course of this year.  We had a lovely deal with her at the start of the year learning about her and where she's from.  And the Caroline Smith Scholarship that she had.  I feel a nice affinity with her because of where she comes from and where she's a member here.  I've felt very comfortable here and at home.  I thought it was going to be fun playing.   
I felt badly for her.  This is her home course, and she knows she's going to have a lot of people come out and watching.  But it's just hard when you've been taking your luggage off the conveyor belt and you hurt your back.  Good for her for knowing not to push it and not to force it, because she's too talented to weighs it on an injury just by trying to play.   
 Q.  What are you going to do to rest and get prepared for tomorrow?  
KAREN STUPPLES: I'm actually going to do a little speak upstairs for Cambia, I do a little panel talk with Nancy Lopez and Vice Admiral Nora Tyson, so we're going to do a little talk up there.  After that I'm going to chill.  I really don't know what to do.  It's all new.  Normally I'd be following a group and talking about them.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT