SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY ACER
May 29, 2014
Brett Matik
Jonathan Pearson
Karen Stupples
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JON SHOW:   Thanks for joining us today for a special announcement.   My name is Jon Show with the ShopRite LPGA Classic presented by Acer, and I'm going to introduce Jonathan Pearson from Horizon Blue Cross Blue Shield of New Jersey, who's going to make a special announcement and introduce some of our special distinguished panelists up here.   Thanks.   
JONATHAN PEARSON:   I'm Jonathan Pearson.   I'm with Horizon Blue Cross Blue Shield of New Jersey.   I want to thank everyone for coming today.   We have some really great kids here from the Atlantic City Boys & Girls Club and some other special guests.   At Horizon we have a promise, and for the last 82 years we've been supporting communities and organizations to improve the health of our members and the communities at large, and one of the special things that we're doing down here with the ShopRite LPGA Classic is keeping our promise to two other charities that we work with, and the charities are the Boys & Girls Clubs of Atlantic City, and also the First Tee of Greater Atlantic City.   
Through our foundation, our charitable arm, we're making a $5,000 contribution to both organizations.   We're going to split that contribution to both of them, and then beyond that, what we're excited to do is have a challenge.   So we have Karen from the LPGA and The Golf Channel is going to be walking over Friday, Saturday, Sunday, and for every 10,000 steps that she accumulates, and from what I hear she's going to be walking sunup to sundown, we are going to be making an additional $1,000 contribution to both organizations, again, with really the goal to raise as much money as we can to sustain both groups.   
We're really pleased to be a part of the LPGA Classic.   It's one of the signature events here for New Jersey.   It's really a shining star here in South Jersey in particular.   Horizon has been a long time corporate supporter, and again, we're excited to do this.   I'd like to turn it over to a few of our invited guests today.   I'm going to start with Diane McCoy.   She's vice president, Boys & Girls Clubs, Atlantic City.   She's on the board of trustees.   Diane?   
DIANE McCOY:   Thank you, Jonathan.   On behalf of the Atlantic City Boys & Girls Club, I would like to thank Horizon and Karen for their incredible generosity.   Horizon is a true friend and partner to the Boys & Girls Club, and I also would like to thank Karen for doing this challenge:   10,000 steps.   I love it.   Maybe I'll join you.   
This will help us in our reorganization effort.   The Boys & Girls Club is deeply appreciative of this gift, and we will use it to reopen hopefully in the fall.   Thank you again.   
JONATHAN PEARSON:   Our other partner today is Brett Matik.   She's with the Greater Atlantic City Charities, which represents the First Tee program here in the local market.   She's the president, and I'd like to introduce Brett to say a few words.   
BRETT MATIK:   Thank you very much, Jonathan.   As president of the Greater Atlantic City Charities, we're very excited that we're a recipient of this pedometer challenge on behalf of the First Tee.   The First Tee program has been instrumental in teaching life skills‑‑ not only golf and sports but life skills to the children of Atlantic City and other local communities, and we think it's very important that that continues.   It's a free‑standing program that we 100 percent support.   So we feel that it's a huge benefit to have outside sources help support us support the kids.   So we really appreciate it.   Horizon has been one of our oldest and dearest and longest sponsors, so we really appreciate all the help you've given us.   Thank you.  
JONATHAN PEARSON:   Thank you so much.   Two great organizations, two pillars in the community, and we couldn't be happier to have both of you participate with us, and maybe we'll get them into the pedometer challenge, too.   
With that, we'd like to invite Karen to say a few words.   We actually upgraded our pedometer, so we're going to this really cool Fit Bit, and I want to just show what we carry around to show the difference.   We carry around this old kind of pedometer.   We like it, but someone in the corporate marketing and sponsorship area upgraded us, so great work doing this.   
We're going to challenge you with this.   We know you're up for it, and we want to present this to you that you can wear.   You can start wearing it now if you'd like.   But really want to have you say a few words, as well.   
KAREN STUPPLES:   Well, firstly, I'm happy that this is going to be around my wrist because the last pedometer I wore went through the wash.   I had it my pocket and laundered it, and then I didn't have a clue how many steps I had taken.   
Firstly, it was a great honor for me to have been asked to do this.   I am incredibly humbled by the work that you guys do and the opportunity that you give the kids, and I wanted to be part of that, and I love a challenge.   10,000 steps every day, yeah, I think I can handle that.   I am pretty excited about it.   
On a personal note I was reading a little bit up about the Boys & Girls Club, and I realized that you have a little sponsorship program yourself that you can sponsor a kid through the summer at summer camps and through the things, so I'd like to make a personal donation just for myself to sponsor a kid through, so this is just from me to you, so thank you very much.   
My goal is to see if we can't raise as much money as we can, so thank you for inviting me, and this is a‑‑ let's see what we can do.   Thank you.   
BRETT MATIK:   I think we should give the kids a Fit Bit and see how quickly those kids start moving.   I've seen those kids run.   
JONATHAN PEARSON:   That really concludes our program.   Thank you, guys, for attending and participating.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT