THE SOLHEIM CUP
September 23, 2011
Karen Stupples
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Topsy-turvy game. Where do you think it all went wrong? 
 KAREN STUPPLES: It was those last two holes. Neither one of us hit the fairway on 17 and 18, and when we missed the fairway, we were completely -- I mean, there is no other way to describe it. It was just (Indiscernible), really. 
 I mean, it was unlucky. Mel's ball was unplayable at 17, and my drive ended up unplayable on 18. It was like you had no shot. You've hit a decent drive, it deserves to be at least playable, and that's really what happened. This 18th pin here is really quite stupid, So I don't know what that's all about.

 Q. What are your thoughts for this afternoon? Where can you improve? 
 KAREN STUPPLES: For me, I don't know if I'm playing yet, but, if I am, I'm just going to keep playing how I'm playing, because to be quite honest with you I'm playing quite good, so what can you do? It's just golf.

 Q. Is there any particular hole or group of holes maybe that's going to be a game changer in these three days? 
 KAREN STUPPLES: The last few holes. You've got 15, 16, 17 and 18, obviously that's the ticket. But you've got to play solid to get to them. Yeah, but you don't know what's going to happen, obviously, as this match proved. 

 Q. (Inaudible)?
 KAREN STUPPLES: Yeah, it was. It was a good match. We got really unlucky on those last few holes to be quite honest with you. You miss the fairway by a little bit, and you have an unplayable lie. Yeah, it's a bit lucky.

 Q. You were looking 2-up through 4, and you saw the winner's line coming up (Indiscernible). 
 KAREN STUPPLES: Of course it's frustrating. You have to try -- you know, we made a great par on 16, and then only to get really unlucky on 17. Not only with the shot to the tee, but then to go ahead and plug in the bunker then after that, too. You really have no shot to do from there. 
 And then here, again, you're on the fairway, and it's almost unplayable. What do you do? That's just frustrating. Yeah, luckily, we've still got more matches still to go.

 Q. Finally (Indiscernible)?
 KAREN STUPPLES: We both played really solid. It's just the nature of the game, and the foursome this week is particularly tricky. We can't beat ourselves up too much. We've just got to keep going. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT