NAVISTAR LPGA CLASSIC
September 17, 2011
Karen Stupples
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Turned it on on the backside. What was the difference on the back nine today? 
 KAREN STUPPLES: You know, I don't really know. I mean, I think maybe it's a little less in the rough. Hit some really good quality shots in the back nine. Hit some close so didn't have to make any long putts, and that really makes a bit of difference. 
 You know, using the contours, having the right little break here and there kind of helps as well. So yeah, I was happy with it.

 Q. Next week is a big week. We all know it's Solheim Cup. 
 KAREN STUPPLES: Yeah.

 Q. Playing this well heading into it, is that what you had been hoping for?
 KAREN STUPPLES: Absolutely, because, I mean, you don't want the stress of trying to find your game when you get to something as big as a Solheim Cup. I feel like I want to go there knowing I've got everything I need, and then my only focus needs to be on adjusting to the golf course and the conditions and learning who I am going to play with and all that stuff. 
 So I don't have to fight on the range, What's my swing doing? You know, I'm at the point where I don't have to worry about that. And I've kind of been that way all year. This year has been a good, solid year for me. 
 Yeah, I feel very happy about it.

 Q. You're up near the top of the leaderboard, but Lexi seems to be running away from the field. 
 KAREN STUPPLES: Yep.

 Q. What's the feeling heading into tomorrow and how impressed are you with how well she's been playing this week?
 KAREN STUPPLES: I've always been impressed with her. I mean, when you come out and you finish second at Evian, second at the U.S. Open, how can you not be impressed.
 I think obviously turning professional was a little adjustment for her at the start of the year. But, look, here she is now. She knows where her goals are, she knew she was going through qualifying school, she knew she was heading out here, and I think she came here and just relaxed and played. 
 You know, she didn't feel like she had to prove anything to anybody. So here she is doing what she does best, and that's playing awesome golf. She'll be here soon enough. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT