AVNET LPGA CLASSIC
April 28, 2011
Karen Stupples
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome Karen Stupples, one of our moms on tour, who's currently at the top of the leaderboard at 4-under at the Avnet LPGA. Karen, just what worked today?   
 KAREN STUPPLES: You know what, it was quite funny. I didn't know even if I was going to play today, really. Logan, my son, was sick last night, so he couldn't go into day care. My husband now caddies for me, so it was a bit of a drama this morning trying to figure out what we were going to do.   
 Very fortunately we found someone to come and take care of Logan. It was a bit of a rush and a panic, but I think just the fact that something else was going on kind of takes your mind off the importance of actually putting a score together.   
 I played very, very solidly. I've been working really hard on my game, and everything is starting to slowly come back where I feel like it should be.  
 MODERATOR: Is Logan okay?   
 KAREN STUPPLES: I think so. He seemed to be much perkier this morning. I mean, he still wanted to go into day care, but obviously we couldn't go in. They had a big day trip planned today, so he was gutted.  
 MODERATOR: Questions.  
  
  Q. You played here before and you know the course. Did that knowledge help you a lot today, do you feel like, or was it just that you kind of put it on automatic pilot?  
 KAREN STUPPLES: Yeah, I think so. I mean, I've always played fairly solidly round here. I feel very comfortable her in Mobile in general. Everybody is really very friendly. It's just a nice, nice place. Everything is really cool.   
 And the fact that, yes, I was here at the Tournament of Champions for a number of years, and now that they have done the renovations the course is really terrific. It's really a joy to play, and I think it's always nice to play a place that's fun to play.  
  
  Q. The wind was up a little bit. Does that create an adjustment? And do you think the people starting late, that there may be an advantage there?  
 KAREN STUPPLES: In all fairness, it seemed like just a small little breeze in comparison to yesterday. Yesterday was brutal. Today was a nice stroll. It was a comfortable temperature to play golf in. That little breeze makes it a little bit interesting.   
 There were some holes where particularly on the front side they've got the pins right over bunkers sort of downwind that are almost impossible to get anywhere near the hole. So you have to really play the course very cleverly and take the birdies when they come and be patient and accept pars otherwise.   
  
  Q. Do you get bored at all during the break? How much did you want to play this week?  
 KAREN STUPPLES: Obviously I want to, yeah, play. I'm a competitor. I love to play competitions. That's part of why we're all here. For me, I'm incredibly busy. It probably doesn't weigh on my mind as much as some of the players.   
 Obviously with Logan I'm pretty busy there. I changed coaches, swing coaches, so I've been working through some changes there. So I've had plenty to keep myself busy and occupied.   
 I've just had some work done on my knee as well. Everything seems so be -- I always seem to be busy. I never really have much time to sit and think about it. But would I rather be playing? Absolutely. I think everybody would.  
  
  Q. What have you been working with Gary on? How has he helped?   
 KAREN STUPPLES: We went back to a few little basic things. My grip was pretty strong, so I've been working on weakening that. To be honest with you, I think that's going to be a constant battle for me. I'm going to have to keep working on that.   
 We worked a little bit on my backswing, and we're still continuing to work on my downswing. I tend to bend a little bit too much with my knees into the ball. I'm working on trying to maintain my balance a little bit better through the ball.  
 I'm thoroughly enjoying my time with him. He's helped me out tremendously.   
  
  Q. I would be remiss if I didn't ask a royal wedding question.   
 KAREN STUPPLES: Go for it.  
  
  Q. Do you care at all?   
 KAREN STUPPLES: You know, it's a funny question. I mean, obviously I live over here. Do I like the fact they're getting married? Yes, I do. They have been together a long time. I think it's long overdue.   
 Do I like the fact that it's costing so much money? Probably not. But what can you do? I mean, they're figureheads for our country.   
 You know, I'm actually not too upset that I'm going to be playing golf so I don't have to watch it. I remember watching Charles and Diana. The whole country stopped. We had it playing in school and the whole thing. So I feel like I've done the royal wedding. I don't feel like I need to do another one.  
 But, yes, I'm happy that they're getting married, because they should be. Although I think a funner run would've been if they'd just eloped to Sandals or something. (Laughing.)   
 MODERATOR: All right, Karen; thanks so much.   
 KAREN STUPPLES: No problem. Thanks.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT