HANA BANK ● KOLON CHAMPIONSHIP
November 1, 2008
Karen Stupples
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You're right up there at the top second week in a row.  
 KAREN STUPPLES: Yeah, it's good and it would be good to do it a second week in a row and it would show that last week wasn't a fluke and that I still have it in me. It's good. This one, I'm not ton the top, I've still got a lot of chasing to do but it's fun and I'll be looking forward to it and it's a challenge. Especially this golf course, it's so hard and so tough you just have to keep your head down and playing.  
  
  Q. What's it like with Christina, battling the crowds and knowing you're going to be playing with one of the --  
 KAREN STUPPLES: It doesn't really worry me either which way. Yesterday, I played with another Hana Bank girl, and everybody clapped when she got a shot and I didn't get anything.   
 It was a little bit strange when you hit a good shot and you hear nothing, but it doesn't matter to me. I can appreciate the fact that if you're going to have crowd favourites and it should be that way -- it's their home country and it should be that way. It might mean they have more pressure because it's their home country. You have to know that no matter what the crowd response is, they are going to be feeling pressure from that.   
 It's just another chance to play golf for me.  
  
  Q. How have you adjusted from last week and the heat to the course conditions?   
 KAREN STUPPLES: You still have to strike the ball well, and I think I was hitting the ball well and I was rolling my putts well, with the greens being as perfect as they are here.   
 This week I've continued to be in good putting form and hopefully I can do that again tomorrow. But that's really what it's been about. The greens are a little quicker here and in better condition but the weather kind of makes it very tough. It's a hard golf course and you have to hit good shots.  
  
  Q. What do you think it will take tomorrow?  
 KAREN STUPPLES: I don't honestly know. It pretty much depends on the weather. If it's anything like today, I think 5-, or 6-under might win.   
 Anything can happen, with the greens rolling as perfect as they are, you can get on a really good roll with it and make a lot of putts and who knows what's going to happen. I have to take care of business and keep my head down and play the golf course and what anybody else does, it's going to be their business. I just have to play the course and play for myself.   
 Yesterday with the rain in the morning, that made the greens a little softer, you so you could play a little more aggressive.   
 Today with it being so windy and dry, everything was a little more difficult to judgment. I thought the pin placements were tough today, getting close to them and especially coming down that back nine, it was very cold and very windy whereas yesterday it turned perfect. Yesterday after the morning, after I played, for me, after I played 12 holes, it's perfect conditions. Teeing off late, you had perfect conditions for maybe 12 holes and you have to score well in those conditions, but today it just played a lot tougher.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT