RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
July 31, 2008
Karen Stupples
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   KAREN STUPPLES: I hit my first drive in the fairway -- I don't know, expectations, knowing that I have been playing well this year, and one round here, I was nervous and I know I could never get anywhere near the start I got to last time.   
 So once I started playing and hit some quality shots, got into it.   
  
  Q. A 64 last time you played, and 67 now.   
 KAREN STUPPLES: Yeah, very happy with that and hit some good-quality shots and that's refreshing, too. I was getting a bit sort of stale and nothing was happening and I was making some putts and nothing was going, and you turn the corner and you have to start thinking let's make some birdies.   
 12, I hit a good putt and 13 I hit a really good iron, so I was very happy with that. Disappointed with the 3-putts on 14. That took a bit of momentum because I think I could have gone even lower.   
  
Q. Inaudible?  
 KAREN STUPPLES: I think I was a little greedy and wanted another birdie. That will teach me.   
  
  Q. Juli Inkster leading --  
KAREN STUPPLES: I hope so. She's got two girls, managed to combine motherhood and golf, for me what a role model. She really is somebody I look up to and how she's got a knack for business, and finding real life, as well.   
  
  Q. How old is your son?  
 KAREN STUPPLES: 15 months. From ten months on, he hasn't stopped. We can barely blink and we're growing eyes in the back of our head, too, because we need them.   
 He wakes up in the morning and he sees balls everywhere. He sees them everywhere.   
  
  Q. What's his name?  
 KAREN STUPPLES: Logan.  
  
  Q. Inaudible?  
 KAREN STUPPLES: When I was -- I think Juli was just starting to come in before I teed off and here in the gallery and that really brought it home for me, and I thought, wait a minute, and every day I remember something new about what it was like four years ago, and I got really nervous.   
  
  Q. Inaudible?  
 KAREN STUPPLES: I think so, because you know that you're ready to play and if you're nervous, you're ready to play. Stuck in traffic like I was last time, too, coming from Bracknell on the A30. I probably could have done with an extra 15 minutes but it wasn't anything major.   
 Doesn't matter to me, you play late/early, or early/late, it doesn't matter. This way I know I can get more rest before the weekend.   
  
  Q. Inaudible?  
 KAREN STUPPLES: You had no galleries up till now -- and I'm not just here for fun, I'm here for a tournament. But I also think that when I played the practise round, getting to the 15th tee, I remember how nervous I felt in the final round on the 15th tee. That really came home for me, too.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT