MICHELOB ULTRA OPEN AT KINGSMILL
May 11, 2008
Karen Stupples
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DANA GROSS-RHODE: Thank you very much for sticking around. This has got to be quite the Mother's Day for you today, tied for 2nd place. You're definitely the top mother right now on the leaderboard.  
 KAREN STUPPLES: I'm really happy about that. That's almost the game within the game this week and for my first time playing on Mother's Day, very happy with how I played.  
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: Any questions for Karen?  
  
  Q. You mentioned Mother's Day earlier. Did it happen a special feel playing on Mother's Day this year?  
 KAREN STUPPLES: It really did. I can really appreciate now -- obviously, being a mother, what it means because this morning my son, he's one, he's walking around and my husband has given him some cards to bring to me and day care, they made -- he did his first picture, you know, first like finger painting and picture and that was Mother's Day present from him.  
 That was the first time that he had actually done something for me and it was really cool.  
  
  Q. How old is he?  
 KAREN STUPPLES: He just turned one. April 21st is his birthday.  
  
  Q. Talk about your week. Pretty rewarding?  
 KAREN STUPPLES: Yeah. I mean I've been playing pretty good this whole year. It was nice for it to all come together here. My husband is from Norfolk originally so you always have a good feeling.   
 All of his family and friends from the area come watch so I've always felt very comfortable here. It's just such a beautiful place.  
 It's just good to play well as well. Not only do you feel good being here but you play well. It's just the complete week.  
  
  Q. Did your husband grow up in Norfolk?  
 KAREN STUPPLES: He did. He went to high school and ODU.  
  
  Q. Probably don't wish it on anybody but when that putt on 18 misses that moves you into tie for a 2nd, bad for her, good for you?  
 KAREN STUPPLES: It's a shame. JJ played really good all week and she's such a nice girl. You don't wish that on anybody.   
 Personally I would have rather made mine, made my birdie putt on 18 and be done with it but I didn't but I'll take whatever comes my way and whether it had been 2nd or 3rd, I'm very happy with my week anyway because I could go home and Logan is going to be there and I'm going to be the luckiest golfer on this Tour this week.  
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: Any other questions? Okay. Happy Mother's Day.  
 KAREN STUPPLES: I can't wait. I'm going to go see him now. Thank very much.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT