WEETABIX WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 5, 2006
Karen Stupples
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








COLIN CALLANDER:   Karen, a round of 72, that puts you n at 212, 4 under.  You must be delighted.
KAREN STUPPLES:  Absolutely.  Very pleased with my round today.  Really didn't have too many great opportunities to birdie, so to hang in there and make pars felt pretty good.  The greens were really crispy as the day was going on, and with that little bit of wind, they really dried out.  So to get the ball anywhere near the bag was pretty tough.
COLIN CALLANDER:   Did you change putters today?
KAREN STUPPLES:  I did.  I went to a mallet style putter because I feel the other one, I was getting a little bit too much in and out movement and I wanted something that was easier to square up and go to the hole.  I felt I was much better on my short putts today.
Q.  What were you using?
KAREN STUPPLES:  It was more of a traditional blade looking putter, and I went to my old mallet looking putter.
COLIN CALLANDER:   When the last time you used that one.
KAREN STUPPLES:  That one has been off and on in the bag.  The last time I won the British Open was with that one.
COLIN CALLANDER:   Old faithful.
KAREN STUPPLES:  Yeah, old faithful.  Always back in the bag when you need it.

I just felt so much more solid on the short putts.  I probably made longer putts with the other putter, but the short ones, I was so much better with this one.
COLIN CALLANDER:   Can we go through the birdies and bogey?  You started with three pars and bogeyed the fourth.
KAREN STUPPLES:  I hit a bit of a thin (ph) tee shot, really didn't want to hit it into that green and put it in the bunker short.  Had a little awkward start, not too bad, but a little awkward, happy to make bogey.

Next hole I hit a really stupid grip 8 iron and ended up with about an eight foot putt which I made for birdie.

11, I hit a 58 degree wedge, perfect yardage for me.  It was about 75 yards but with that little wind it was perfect.  Ended up three foot from the hole.  That was a good birdie.

15, I hit a good drive, a good three feet just short, chipped it onto about foot and made that one.

I was happy not to go into the bunkers on 17 and 18 because my tee shot I thought I was.  Very relieved, almost like a mini celebration going up the fairway.
Q.  Crossed your fingers?
KAREN STUPPLES:  Yes, I did.  I was like, you know, I can't be too disappointed with that.  I didn't cross them on 17, so I thought, well, maybe I need to a little bit on the 18th.  But someone was looking out for me on those two holes today.
COLIN CALLANDER:   Big day tomorrow.  What do you plan to do between now and then?
KAREN STUPPLES:  I'm going to go out to dinner with some friends actually tonight.  That's about it really.  Take it easy, put my feet up.  It will be a late tee time again tomorrow.  Maybe get organised and do some packing.  Other than that, normal traveling things.
COLIN CALLANDER:   Seems like it's been a fun week for you.
KAREN STUPPLES:  It's been a fantastic week for me.  It's always great to be with my family and we always have such a laugh.  It's funny when my sister and I were growing up, we didn't get on too well.  But now that we are older, we're best friends now, it's brilliant.  She's going to come with me next week.
Q.  Inaudible?
KAREN STUPPLES:  I think much the same really.  Around this golf course you have to be patient by design and take the chances when they come.  I don't think    I don't think you can try and overpower it.  I think you just have to take your chances.

And as I said on TV just now, what Morgan Pressel did yesterday on those last two holes really shows, you know, what can happen around this course, even when you're playing well.  Obviously it won't be over until it's over, I know that.
Q.  Inaudible?
KAREN STUPPLES:  Absolutely.  I think    exactly.  The more you can keep out of the bunkers and save your pars, the better off you're going to be around here.  Only three birdies, but it's so difficult, just so difficult to get close to the flag because they really do crisp up.  The only greenish green was the 18th where I left that putt short.  It was a lot greener than the others.
Q.  Can you think of a number that might win tomorrow and go in and try to shoot that?
KAREN STUPPLES:  No.  I don't think you can ever really go out there thinking of a number.  Certainly for me that's very dangerous.  I can just go out there, try and hit quality golf shots and try to get as much out of my round as I possibly can.  It's so difficult to think, oh, I'm going to shoot this, I'm going to shoot that.  There's so many good quality players in the field that are up at the top of the leaderboard, you never know what they are going to do.  You just have to take it as it goes.  If I play well and I end up on top, I obviously will be very happy.  But somebody else can also play well, so you have to roll with it and do the best that you can.
COLIN CALLANDER:   You'd probably quite like your Sunningdale start again.
KAREN STUPPLES:  An eagle, double eagle down 6 and 7, that would be a bit of a celebration.
Q.  Inaudible?
KAREN STUPPLES:  Absolutely.  I think even being able to say, how will I approach the day; I know that last year I went out, okay, thinking that I want to get off to a good start but knowing that I have to be patient and just wait for things to come as they come.  And I think learning from that    you know, for me being in the hunt is really enjoyable.  I love it.  I love the pressure and I love being in there.  That's one of the reasons why we play competitive golf.  It's just, it makes you feel really alive.  It's fabulous, knowing that you've got to make that putt or you've got to try and make a shot, it's brilliant.
COLIN CALLANDER:   Thank you very much.



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT