WEETABIX WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 30, 2005
Karen Stupples
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CONNIE WILSON:  Karen, thank you for joining us.  That was a fantastic finish.  Talk a little about that.
KAREN STUPPLES:  Yeah, it is, the actual finishing hole, that was    I hit a perfect drive, a bit out to the right and I was a bit disappointed with it really.  So I knew I had a good chance of making a birdie at last, but when I got down there, it was sitting pretty good in the rough and actually a perfect yardage for a 5 wood.  So I got lucky there, and had a built of a blind shot; I could not really see where it was finishing, to the flag, but saw how the ball was moving when it was in the air, pretty good and the gallery kept getting louder and louder.  It was one of those, oh, another albatross, but I'll definitely take an eagle there.  That was a pretty nice way to finish.
Q.  How far was the putt?
KAREN STUPPLES:  The eagle putt was about a foot and a half, two foot max.
Q.  Do you feel like you left some out there?
KAREN STUPPLES:  Absolutely.  I still feel like I left a few out there, but I did make a couple extra little putts and I really hit the ball well today.  I really kept it in play and was consistent and took advantage of the par 5s.  I didn't have a five on my card at all today and birdied all of those.  Generally played a very solid round of golf and very patient, I would say, more so than the other days.  I didn't force my ball in the holes like I had done.  I waited and sometimes they dropped and sometimes they didn't.  I definitely made more than I did the first couple of days.

Again, it's a patience thing.  I'm very impatient.  I wanted to make lots of putts quickly but couldn't do it.
Q.  Have you enjoyed being defending champion?
KAREN STUPPLES:  It's been an interesting thing really because it's one that has been in the back of my mind all year really.  And it's almost    it's almost like, finally, it's here and I can relax a little bit and enjoy it and enjoy playing.  I mean, the course here is just magnificent right now and would who not enjoy playing it?  Just from a purely golfing standpoint, it's just wonderful to be here, and today playing well was even better.
Q.  Do you put more pressure on yourself this week because you're defending champion?
KAREN STUPPLES:  Generally I've put a lot of pressure on myself the whole year really.  This week, probably not more so than any other weeks.  All I knew I was going to have a lot of fun here this week, and certainly having my family here this week helped with that.  My sister has managed to make me laugh and my dad, I'm sure we were quite embarrassing at the Italian restaurant last night because everybody was singing.

Generally, the pressure, not an extra amount this week, but in general this year, yes, I have.  I wanted to make sure that I play well.  I want to get myself into Solheim Cup points standings and not leave it to chance.  So I would rather get myself the points.  That's really one of the first and foremost things on my mind right now.
Q.  Inaudible?
KAREN STUPPLES:  Absolutely.  It looks like Jeong Jang is playing particularly well right now, she's rolling per her putts splendidly, and I think, why not?  She's been playing fantastic all year and essentially, this is her time.  She's been there or thereabouts.  I think there's only so much hanging around you can do, and eventually you have to win and I think this could potentially be her week.  I know she's going to be very tough to catch.
Q.  What exactly was your family singing?
KAREN STUPPLES:  36 Star.  My sister has got some rhythm, not so sure about the boys.  My dad, no, he doesn't have any.  My mom kept quiet.  Her and I were in about the same boat, we were pretty quiet and tried to hide.  I kept shrinking further away into the corner.  Actually it was quite funny, because the music was loud enough that I think it drowned everybody out anyway.  It was quite a good laugh.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT