WEETABIX WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 31, 2004
Karen Stupples
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DANA VON LOUDA:  Karen, you were the leader after the first and second round, and now you are only one shot back going into tomorrow.  You had five birdies today, a couple bogeys but you're still right there.
KAREN STUPPLES:   Absolutely.  Very happy to still be there after the up and down round that I had, and I think the fact that I had a three shot lead after two rounds was a good little cushion for me today, as I showed early on, I think I needed a bit of a cushion.  It was good to finish, I felt like I finished up strong with birdies on 13 and 14 and a few par saves coming in.  So it gives me lots of confidence for tomorrow.

2, hit a drive and 3 putted from 30 foot.

3, I hit driver and a full 58 degree wedge which worked out to be a perfect yardage and I hold a 6 foot putt.

Double bogey, I missed a green on the right.  Played a really nice shot from it and very disappointed to have a 3 putt after having such a good shot.  I think it was just a mental    I just took for granted it was a short tap in and went brain dead, which I can really     just fortunate not to do it again.

6, I hit a 4 wood off the tee and a grip 7 iron and holed an eight foot putt.

11, I hit a 7 wood off the tee and it was hanging off the edge of the bunker and I had no stance or chance to hit a decent shot.  All I could do was just advance it down the fairway.  Then the chip I hit came up short.  I was struggling a bit with my feel today with the short shots.  So bogey there.

Birdied the 13.  I hit a grip 7 iron and holed an eight foot putt.

14, I hit a driver and a 7 wood over the green and 2 putted from 35 foot.

Got up and down on last from the bunker to save par.
Q.  You're using the word "grip"?
KAREN STUPPLES:   Yeah, that means I hold it down the shaft about an inch, so takes about five yards off of it.  I think it was about 190 to the front.  I was trying to land it about 180.
Q.  What did you feel at the start of the day?
KAREN STUPPLES:   I was anticipating that in all fairness.  I knew people would come out today and shoot good scores.  Especially Minea Blomqvist shooting 9  or 10 under to show that the course was just out there for the taking today.

I was expecting that.  I did have hope that I would have had less mistakes and a few more birdies than I did.  However, still 2 under par, I can't really complain too much.  Still only one shot off the lead.  So it's not all about.
Q.  Were you having problems with concentration today?
KAREN STUPPLES:   Somewhat, early on a little bit.  I was quite nervous at the start of the day.  Just little things, like I struggled to get into the swing of things, but concentration, no.  I just didn't have an awful lot of  thought for the shots.  Sometimes that happens, hit too hard or something.
Q.  Was it the adrenaline?
KAREN STUPPLES:   It could have been.  It could have been.  Or it just could have been a desire to do well, a desire to try to be too perfect, hit too perfect a shot to try and catch everybody and try and maintain what I had.  Which is I think probably what I'm going to put it down to with trying to be perfect, when I should just play my own game.
Q.  Will it be slightly easier not to be in the lead group after all the attention you have received this year?
KAREN STUPPLES:  It could be.  It could be.  It would be nice to get off to a good start tomorrow and put some pressure on.  Especially with the two par 5s to kick off, I think always good to get off because you know that the leader is going to be nervous because you've got to be.  I don't think it's human if you're not going to be nervous.  So, no doubt I'll be nervous again as well.  But I need to get off to a good start.
Q.  What can you do to not be nervous?
KAREN STUPPLES:   I try to breathe.  I try to breathe and focus on the job at hand and on each shot with my pre shot routine.  That tends to take away a lot of the pressure.

You can almost go brain dead and just, okay, this is my routine, this is what I'm going to do and forget everything else.
Q.  Did you take that putt for granted?
KAREN STUPPLES:   Yes, it was naughty.  It's just very disappointed in that.  It happens.  I really did, I just went up     in fact, what I had done was gone to line my ball up like I always do and when I got over, I thought oh, wait a minute, this might be a little bit more, and it wasn't.  Trust your line and hit it.  So thought too much about it; read too much into it.  It was just silly.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT