CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
August 31, 2018
Karen Stupples
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








KAREN STUPPLES: I really feel like I set out -- I accomplished what I set out to at the start of the week, which was to prove to myself that I still had potential to play, even though I don't want to, and I wanted to give John, my caddie, the best possible week I could, and I was as nice and as kind as I've ever been to anybody on the golf course.  I wanted to make Cambia proud that they gave me the exemption, and I feel like I've done as much as I can, and I'm going to continue to give -- and any time Mark wants anything from me, any time, he knows where to find me because I would drop anything to go help him out because of everything he's done for this event and for the tournament.  He's just really been spectacular with it.
Q. I know you love this place.
KAREN STUPPLES: This is just so happy, and I've replaced bad memories with some really happy times, and I've smelt the roses along the way, and I've noticed that there's a fantastic fruit orchard on the 15th, that I didn't even know existed until today, and it's obviously been there for some time because they're fairly mature trees.
Q. You're just paying attention to you.
KAREN STUPPLES: Exactly.  I'm just seeing it with open eyes.  The one thing I do wish is I wish I had played every single LPGA event of my career the way I played this one, with the same joy of just being able to take part.
Q. So that's your advice for these young ones?
KAREN STUPPLES: Exactly, just take advantage of every opportunity that comes your way.  Make friends with the sponsors that are paying for the event.  Go and realize that every pro-am that you're playing in that you are making those players' day just by playing golf with you.  And you have a range that's packed full of fantastic golf balls that people would love to actually play rounds of golf with, on grass that's perfectly manicured and a golf course that is in tremendous shape.  And not everybody gets all these things.  It's just a wonderful opportunity, and what a life.  You get to travel the world, see some great sights, and just to really take it all on board because you never know when it's going to finish.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT