TOSTITOS FIESTA BOWL: OHIO STATE v MIAMI
January 1, 2003
Mike Nugent
Darrion Scott
Will Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Ben Hartsock talked about just the repetition this has become this week and what it's like.  He made a reference to Groundhog Day.  Do you guys feel that way?

DARRION SCOTT:  I believe, you know, it has been that way this week.  We want to wrap up things.  We don't want to go out there and go for the physical game.  We're a physical team.  Basically we want to take these last couple of days and take it as a mental practice.

Q.  Do practices seem the same though?  I mean you do a press conference every day.  Is it getting repetitious for you, Will?

WILL SMITH:  Yes, it's repetitious.  We want to focus on what they run.  We're running all their plays in practice.  We're focussing on that.  We're not trying to kill ourselves out there.  We're trying to make sure everybody knows what they're doing

Q.  Mike, you've pretty much got a big challenge in terms of Roscoe Parrish.  Is there any game plan in terms of how to eliminate his productivity?

MIKE NUGENT:  I'm not really too involved in that aspect of the game.  What we're trying to do is get everyone down there to do what they're supposed to do.  Hopefully, like what we have been doing the rest of the season.

Q.  For either Will and Darrion:  We keep hearing about Miami's speed; can you talk about whomever impressed you with speed as compared to what you heard about Miami?

WILL SMITH:  I think we have speed to match Miami.  Everyone on the defense is fast.  We all ran good 40 time.  I don't know if that counts.  On offense too.

Q.  What was the fastest team you played?

WILL SMITH:  Probably Washington State, like you said.

Q.  Mike, what's the mood of this team right now two days before the game?

MIKE NUGENT:  I've actually been really impressed by the way everyone's been acting lately.  With such a huge game, everyone has been doing a really good job taking it as just another game.  It's so different than a regular season game.  Everyone's been doing a really good job and doing the same thing they do every week.  I've really been impressed.

WILL SMITH:  Everyone's been focused like Mike said.  Everyone is just relaxed, making jokes.  I know once game day comes, everybody is going to be focused.

Q.  A lot of guys in this room said the Big 10 conference is not very good this year.  Any sense of pride by you on how the other Big 10 teams do in the other bowl games?

DARRION SCOTT:  I'm proud of the Big 10.  There is really no good teams in the Big 10.  Everybody, you know, they lose.  On a Saturday, you never know who's going to come out on top in the Big 10 game.  That's the difference between our conference and the other conference.  Like I said, if you look in the other conferences you see a team with a dominant record.  They'll probably win, but with the Big 10 you never know.

Q.  Darrion, will you guys watch bowl games today?

DARRION SCOTT:  No, I tend to stay away from bowl games and other football games.  I've seen enough of football this year and right now.  Basically I try to relax and get my mind off of football when I'm not doing it.

WILL SMITH:  I watch the bowl games.  I like watching bowl games.  After we leave here we're probably going to watch the Michigan game and I don't know who else plays for the Big 10 today.

Q.  Penn State?

WILL SMITH:  Yes. 

Q.  Darrion, the perception among us is that Miami is loaded offensively.  As you look at it on film, is it scary to watch; what is your impression overall?

DARRION SCOTT:  They're impressive, but like any other team, they can be stopped.  That's why you have game plans and whatnot.  You make game plans to stop a team.  You put in different defenses or blitzes to prevent the quarterback and not give him time to pick you apart.  They're a great team and have great weapons.  We also have a great defense.

Q.  Do you go into the game at this point confident about playing them?

DARRION SCOTT:  We're going to go into this game confident.  I can't see why we would go into this game not being confident.  I think we can come out victorious.

Q.  Mike, talk about the season, how long it's been?

MIKE NUGENT:  It has been a long season.  Like I said earlier, everyone's been sticking together.  Sometimes you're going to see when guys are almost hanging around each other too much, they'll get tired of each other.  I haven't noticed that.  Everyone's working so hard together to do what we want to do, which is to win the game on Friday.  Everyone's working together and being really focused.  There is times you can have fun with each other and other times being really focused and working hard.

Q.  Mike, I'm sure you saw some film with the Florida State game, Miami and that last kick that went wide left.  Did you see that and what was your reaction, what were you thinking?  Were you feeling a little bit bad for the kicker?

MIKE NUGENT:  I think that's one thing kickers when we watch each other, we'll feel bad for one another.  It's just one of those things.  I haven't been in that position.  He had a great season going into that game.  Just one kick like that can mess you up for the rest of the season.  I heard his season hasn't been as good as what it was during the beginning.  I can feel for someone like that and hopefully if I ever get put in that situation I can do the opposite of what he did.

Q.  Would you like to be put in that position?  Would you like to have a game on your foot in the final seconds?

MIKE NUGENT:  Thinking as a team player, I would go in and wish we could win by 100 points so no one the world would have any worries about the game.  It kind of leads up to a situation like that.  I could say, yeah, if that situation does happen, I'm just going to go into it with everything I've got and try to do exactly what I have been doing all season.

Q.  Will, same question Darrion answered about the impression of Miami being so awesome in offense?

WILL SMITH:  They have a lot of great players on the offense, a great running back, quarterback, receivers, but I think we have some great players on our defense, and I just think that both teams  -- we have to go out and play them hard and physical and play fast like we know we can and be confident, and I think things should go our way.

Q.  Will, do you have to do anything differently defensively?  Have you changed any defensive schemes that you had during the regular season?

WILL SMITH:  No changes.  We're going to keep the same game plan we have been keeping for other teams.  You've just got to hit them before they can get in the open field and show their speed.

DARRION SCOTT:  Have you guys heard stories about Brett Romberg and him running his mouth?  What do you expect from him ?

WILL SMITH:  I really haven't heard the story that much.

DARRION SCOTT:  A reporter asked me yesterday what would I do if this guys -- he talks a lot and likes to touch people after the plays.  I mean, hopefully I can stay away from that.  I'm going to try to stay away from that during the game.  We don't plan on being down there anywhere near him since we're not on his side. 

Q.  Starting with Mike, how did you guys celebrate the   new year?

MIKE NUGENT:  My parents came into town last night and my roommate's family came in.  We had curfew by 11:00.  I was in bed about 10:30 last night.

Q.  Will, did you celebrate at all?

WILL SMITH:  I stayed in my room with my roommate, Darrion, and we just relaxed and went to sleep.

Q.  How much time do you get to spend with your family at this time?

MIKE NUGENT:  I think right now, just since the game is just a couple days away, as much as we can when we get time off.  It's nice that we got to spend Christmas with them this year.  On my side of the family, when it's with my family, I hang out with them every night except the last night before the game, just as much time as you can with your family.

WILL SMITH:  My family will be arriving tomorrow.  I probably won't get a chance to see them until after the game.

DARRION SCOTT:  Same here. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT