OKLAHOMA CITY THUNDER MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 23, 2016
Anthony Morrow
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Anthony, we haven't talked to you since Kevin left for Golden State.  What was your initial reaction to Kevin's departure?
ANTHONY MORROW: I think like everything else, just shocked initially but after awhile, you just get used to it.  It is what it is.  So we really looking forward to like moving forward.  Had a good time in L.A. working out with a lot of new faces, with a lot of guys that are quote, unquote, Thunder guys, so I feel like we're moving in the right direction.  We're in a good space right now.  Guys are very motivated, so can't wait for camp.
Q. What you've seen of what's going on in Charlotte right now, how does that make you feel?
ANTHONY MORROW: Obviously I'm sad, that being in my own personal city, it's very unfortunate, a sad situation, and a sad unfortunate time we're in right now but it really hit home with me being in Tulsa and the next day it's Charlotte.  It's just something that we've just got to continue to pray and continue to try to find the right answer or medium.  Because right now, it's kind of all-or-nothing.  So just praying for my city and praying for Tulsa and everywhere else.
Q. With 3-point shooting, do you see your role expanding on this team?
ANTHONY MORROW: I hope so.  I'm doing everything that I'm supposed to do in terms of what I need to do, my job to help the team, so obviously three-point shooting is something that I'm known for, that's what I do.  But also just being able to stay on the floor defensively, and also just continue to try and be a better and better leader by example and vocally.
Q. Back to what's going on right now around the country, Colin Kaepernick and the protest that he's had, NBA players traditionally are not shy about speaking out about social topics.  Do you anticipate NBA players to do a demonstration or anything?
ANTHONY MORROW: I don't know what other guys are going to do.  Obviously I'm not there with those guys.  I don't know what's going on in people's heads but like I said, plan, it's just an unfortunate time right now.  I mean, I've been outspoken about it obviously but it's something as a country we have to come together and something we've got to figure out.
Like I said, it's either peaceful or it's rioting.  There's not really an in between right now.  If you have a voice and you have a stage and you feel like expressing yourself, I totally understand.  That's just what it is right now.
Q. You've been around Victor; how do you see him fitting in with the team?
ANTHONY MORROW: He's great.  I was talking to him actually on the way here, just talking about him actually being here, it says a lot about who he is character-wise on and off the court.  He's very excited to be here and it kind of reminds me of when I first signed here, just the feeling of being wanted and feeling welcome is great.
So I think that he's really embracing that right now.  I think he's going to do a great job and he's a special player.  Looked good so far.  So he's just ready to compete.
Q. How much have you been in contact with people in Charlotte, calls, texts?  What's the mood of people you know?
ANTHONY MORROW: It's nonstop, checking on my mom, my dad, all my family, my cousin is giving me updates.
Yesterday it was better last night in terms of all the turmoil, but I've been in constant contact with all of my family.  Just got to keep a close watch on it, praying that this doesn't happen anywhere else.
Q. With KD being gone, shots are going to open up.  Talk about what you envision what might happen for you?
ANTHONY MORROW: Like I said just putting myself in the right position and get open for guys, spread the floor, no matter what that means, even sometimes being a decoy, whatever it means, for me to stay on the floor and being able to help the team out.  Obviously got two guys that can really get in the paint whenever they want to in Victor and Russell, and it's just about being available for those guys and making sure that they are open and ready to shoot.
Q. You talked about being outspoken, as an athlete, do you feel like there are limitations that come with how much you can say and do, given the fact that you're part of a team?
ANTHONY MORROW: I mean, I don't know about, when you say limitations, it all depends on that person.  I feel like, you know, if you're using your stage and you're using your voice in the right way and it's motivating people and it's helping people and it's actually, you know, kind of helping towards being positive with the situation, I think that you can never go wrong in that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT