BREEDERS' CUP WORLD THOROUGHBRED CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 5, 2010
Bret Calhoun
Bill Martin
Dan Morgan
Jamie Theriot
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   ERIC WING: We're now joined in the interview room by the winning connections of the recently completed Breeders' Cup Filly & Mare Sprint, Dubai Majesty. Left to right is co-owner Dan Morgan, co-owner Bill Martin, rider Jamie Theriot, and winning trainer Bret Calhoun. Congratulations to all of you, a first for all four gentlemen in terms of Breeders' Cup victories. 
 Jamie, since you were out there on horseback, take us through the journey that you gave Dubai Majesty. 
 JAMIE THERIOT: It was a great ride. She broke very sharp and put me well in the race on her own. I had a very good starting position, and I got clear at the half-mile pole. From there on out, I was just a passenger. 
 At the 3/8 pole, she started tugging on me. And the turn for home, when I asked her to run, she was full of run. 
 ERIC WING: Bret, it seemed like a combination of things went well today. The result was what we all saw, very authoritative victory that left little doubt as to which was the best horse today. How much of a boost does Dubai Majesty get being here at Churchill? Jamie seemed to have her on the best part of the track, and she's been dead consistent all year. She seems like what must be a very fun horse to train. 
 BRET CALHOUN: She's a very fun horse to train. She's been consistent for us on all surfaces. Obviously, she has proven an affinity for the Churchill surface. You know, she has run well on just about every surface. 
 We were excited about running here at Churchill Downs, obviously, one of the best races of her life came here in the winning colors. She got the great trip today. Jamie did a great job getting the stalking position out there. Like he said, she just took him there in the 3/8 pole and started dragging him to the end of the race. I got pretty excited then. 
 ERIC WING: Mr. Morgan and Mr. Martin, congratulations to both of you. She's been such a consistent sprinter. You know, we always hear how it's hard to keep sprinters good for a long period of time. That does not seem to be the case with Dubai Majesty, who is -- when she doesn't win, she seems like she's always right there. 
 How confident were you going into the race, and did you expect her to win really as comfortably as she did today? 
 DAN MORGAN: $90,000 worth of confident. Yeah, we were pretty confident. Bill? 
 BILL MARTIN: Yeah, the -- this filly is -- has improved really year after year since we've owned her, and we -- and she -- when we first bought her, we thought she might be a two-turn horse. She had won around two turns previously. So we were trying to find where her best fit was. 
 It just seemed that she was thriving in the sprint races. We thought she was good. She missed a couple of great ones at 7/8, really close last year. Bret was very confident in the seven furlong distance. I was a little bit more reluctant because we'd had more luck going six furlongs, but the distance was good. 
 The thing that impresses me about her is how she has just continued to improve, you know, as we go along. For a 5-year-old that's had now 34 starts, it's pretty amazing. 
 ERIC WING: Asking everybody just to speak right into the microphone. I'm sure Bret was holding pens for you at any time, but was it hard writing that check? 
 BILL MARTIN: Didn't feel a thing. I was numb. 
 DAN MORGAN: I did. No, we were pretty confident. We were concerned with that last furlong. We know the horse is great at six furlongs. We were concerned with that extra furlong, but they had the horse ready, and Jamie did a masterful job. 
 ERIC WING: We have a question from upstairs in the press box. Let's go to that now. 

 Q. Jamie, can you talk about how special this win is to get your first Breeders' Cup win here at Churchill Downs where you live? 
 JAMIE THERIOT: It's a great feeling. Come out here every morning, work very hard, and this is what I'm out here every day, seven days a week for. It's a great, great feeling. 
 This is a lifetime goal for me as a jockey, and I accomplished it. 
 ERIC WING: And Jamie and Bret have Chamberlain Bridge to get excited about tomorrow perhaps. We have another question down here. 

 Q. I understand this mare is in the sale soon. Did she get a bigger price today, or is she going to stay with you guys? 
 BILL MARTIN: The price went up. 
 DAN MORGAN: I'd say it went up considerably. 

 Q. Do you know if she'll be sold? 
 BILL MARTIN: She's in the sale, the Fasig-Tipton sale on Sunday. 
 DAN MORGAN: We'll make a decision. 
 BILL MARTIN: She's in the sale. So we'll see what happens. 

 Q. Bret, what were some of the reasons you decided to go with Jamie in the previous race? Obviously back again today. 
 BRET CALHOUN: Jamie knows her very well. He's been very successful for her on a long period of time. Like I said, he knows her inside and out, and we felt very comfortable with Jamie on her. 

 Q. Can you just talk about how rare it is to have a horse like this. I believe she's had more starts this year than any other horse in this field. She just runs a consistent race every time. Can you just talk about that, Bret. How rare is that these days? 
 BRET CALHOUN: It's very rare to have a filly that handles all types of surfaces. As you can tell, she's been on the road quite a bit. She's handled shipping, and that's another thing that we felt very comfortable about is finally getting her to run out of her own stall. I felt that was beneficial for her also because she's traveled a lot this year. We picked a lot of spots for her, and she's responded very well. 
 I really, really believed in my mind we were going to get a peak effort today. 
 ERIC WING: Jamie and Bret, whoever wants to take it, today we saw Dubai Majesty pull it off in a pace prompting way, kind of stalking the speed. There have been other races where she's closed from well out of it. Have you kind of experimented with her? Were those closing efforts more of a mistake, where she didn't break well? How do you view Dubai Majesty doing at her best? 
 JAMIE THERIOT: Well, you know, she's a filly where I think, you know, if you try to make her do something she doesn't want to do early on in the race, she kind of goes the other way on you. Every time I rode, I just let her break and see where she wants to place herself. Sometimes she's closer than other times. Like I said, today she broke very sharply, and she just put me there well within herself. 
 ERIC WING: Mr. Morgan, when are you going to sit down and have that talk about Dubai Majesty's immediate future? 
 BILL MARTIN: Tomorrow. 
 DAN MORGAN: Yeah, we're going to enjoy today. We're going to enjoy the day. 
 ERIC WING: Understandable. Any more questions from upstairs or here in the room? Apparently not. Dan Morgan, Bill Martin, Jamie Theriot, and Bret Calhoun, congratulations on a terrific performance by Dubai Majesty and a Breeders' Cup first for all four of you. Congratulations. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT