MLB WORLD SERIES: INDIANS v MARLINS
October 20, 1997
Marquis Grissom
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Two-parter, Marquis, one, as the playoffs were going on, were you kind of hoping
that the Braves would get back so you would have a chance to show them anything? And two,
how much did it help making the transition from leagues with David Justice with you?
 
 MARQUIS GRISSOM: I really didn't care who won, between the Braves and the Marlins. I
had to concentrate totally on this team and what I needed to do to get myself prepared
just to get to the World Series. We went through a tough task playing the Yankees, they
played us well, and the Orioles played us well, too. We had to focus all our attention on
ourselves and not worry about anybody else. That was the key there. With David Justice, me
and him coming at the same time. It definitely made it easier. You come off with a friend
firsthand, a guy you've been playing with two or three years and a guy you've known eight
years, it definitely made it easier knowing somebody. 
 
Q. Marquis, from the '95 World Series playing in Cleveland to what you know about it
now, how has your perception of the team and the city and playing in the American League
changed?
 
 MARQUIS GRISSOM: Well, I know when we came here in '95 the fans, they were awesome.
They were behind their team 100 percent. For myself, I didn't have too good an idea what
the American League was like. I came over with the attitude of trying to continue to win,
work hard and win. And with the team we had, though, I can tell by the team we played in
'95 that that was a great team, and to add myself, David Justice, Pat Borders and Matt
Williams, I knew we had a good chance to win it right off the bat. I knew we had to get
some pitches and swing the bat. With the pitching we had we could do it and with a great
bullpen, I knew we had a good chance to win it. 
 
Q. When you got traded, Marquis, who was the first person you called?
 
 MARQUIS GRISSOM: My mom. 
 
Q. What did she say?
 
 MARQUIS GRISSOM: She was a little hysterical for a minute and couldn't believe it for a
minute. But she got over it. I told her I'm going to go up there and play baseball, too,
and don't worry about it. I think she was more upset than I was, by far. I had to sit down
and explain it to her for a few minutes, she didn't understand. 
 
Q. Marquis, you replaced a popular player in Kenny Lofton, is there a moment that
turned things around for you and sort of turned the fans around as a perception about the
guy that succeeded Kenny Lofton?
 
 MARQUIS GRISSOM: I came here with the attitude to be myself. I knew there was going to
be a lot of talk about me getting traded -- for being traded between me and Kenny Lofton.
I came here with my work habits and came here to try to win and not fill nobody's shoes.
Kenny is a great player and a good friend of mine, too. I knew if I came here and be
myself, not change, I haven't changed since I made it to the Minor Leagues, so you just
keep the same attitude, keep treating people the way you want to be treated. 
 
Q. When you were dropped from the lead-off spot, did that in any way relieve pressure
off you?
 
 MARQUIS GRISSOM: Not really. I think I was trying too hard, pressing too hard, wanted
to do too well, too quick and too soon. I went to the game and didn't let the game come to
me. Bobby Cox did the same thing, Felipe Alou did the same thing, I played for those guys.
I think you want to get a different look. But they pretty much pitch you the same. And
you've got to go out there and work hard. I remember when I played Little League, the
coach put you anywhere, you go out there and play, as long as you're in the ballgame. 
 
Q. How do you explain so many hits in a row in a World Series? The numbers are pretty
remarkable.
 
 MARQUIS GRISSOM: I don't know. I think, number one, I'm going out there, I'm having
fun. From having a rough season, and the way the season went for us, up and down, up and
down, up and down, to get to the postseason play and definitely get to the World Series,
it's definitely exciting. You don't put any pressure on yourself, you go out and try to do
the things you know how to do. I reflect back on being a kid and playing the game. Things
just happened for me to be on a great team. 
 
Q. Can you describe the scene when you were informed that you were being traded, who
told you, where you were, how shocked you were?
 
 MARQUIS GRISSOM: Well, Bobby Cox and I, we got called into the office, and it was real
short and brief, told me I'd been traded for Kenny Lofton and Embree. Definitely I was
shocked. The difficult part was saying good-bye to my teammates right there early in the
morning. Couldn't believe it. But after that, as I packed my things and got on, I realize
I've got to go over here and try to win, go over here and do a job, and finish up. This is
my baseball career, I can't let any time pass me by. 
 
Q. Marquis, how close did you come during that free-agent period to signing with the
Marlins, and was that something that sounded like it was going to happen?
 
 MARQUIS GRISSOM: I think it would have happened. I think -- I don't know what became of
it, but I think none of the guys could sign during that period, so nobody did. And so they
stopped that off. But I definitely had the intention of going to the Florida Marlins. It
was a good contract for myself, going to another winning team. And I was all happy. Then
it came the situation where the Expos still had part of the control of myself, and so they
made the decision just to trade me to Atlanta. 
 
Q. Marquis, GM told me today that he thinks you're one of the great drafts of all time,
one of the great secret, wonderful drafts. What did Eddie Kreach (phonetic) see in you and
what's he meant to your career?
 
 MARQUIS GRISSOM: Eddie drafted me out of Florida, because I went to a small college,
Division 1, AA and there I played pretty good. And I think he scouted me a lot more than
he scouted any other guys, because I was 10 or 15 minutes away from him. And being drafted
is something very special. I thought that was -- I was real fortunate and happy for myself
to get drafted. He's meant a lot to me because he's been behind me ever since day one. He
didn't stop after he drafted me, he stayed behind me and supported me, when things were
going bad and good. I really have to thank Ed a lot. 
 
Q. Can you tell us what kind of changes you've seen in David Justice's personality and
maturity in the last year or so, and what you think getting out of Atlanta has done to
him?
 
 MARQUIS GRISSOM: I think everybody perceived David Justice wrong. He's the same person
today as he was in Atlanta, because a guy may go out and speak his peace or speak his
mind, tell people how he feels, doesn't mean he's a bad person or wrong. But David
Justice, he loves to work hard, hits extra every day, and he goes out and plays the game
hard. I don't see anything wrong with David Justice. 
 
Q. Marquis, could you briefly revisit the LCS Game 2, what would it take to keep you
out of the line-up if you played and --
 
 MARQUIS GRISSOM: Can't run, can't hit. If I can swing the bat and get around, I figure
if I'm hurting and I can run just as fast as anybody else on the field. I just love to
play the game. This is big-time baseball. To be in the playoffs, I don't want to let that
opportunity go by, not being in the line-up, not playing, because some guys play all their
career and never get a chance to go to postseason play or the World Series, so I'm taking
total advantage. 
 
Q. Were you at all surprised that they didn't pitch around you, the first two games,
and how will that change now with the DH?
 
 MARQUIS GRISSOM: Me and Dave Justice talked about that exact same thing. I was thinking
they were going to pitch around me and not give me anything to hit because of the eight
spot. But somehow he talked that out of me, and I blocked it out of my mind. I think maybe
if they got ahead they would try to pitch to me, and if they didn't, they wouldn't. But I
think a couple of balls I hit they definitely weren't strikes, two of the hits definitely
weren't strikes. I can't tell. But I'm going to go up there tomorrow with my same
approach. 
 
Q. You have the highest batting average in the history of the World Series, how
important is that to you?
 
 MARQUIS GRISSOM: I don't know. I'm looking at it now because you guys are bringing it
up. But I just go out there and play. I'm trying to help my team as much as I can, because
those guys have picked me up all season, and it takes a total team effort to go out and
win. And I really never looked at a batting average or anything. It's about going out
there, how 25 guys can come together and win. It takes more than just skills and talent
and having a great ball club. 
 
Q. What do you think of people calling you Mr. October now?
 
 MARQUIS GRISSOM: No, I'll leave that for Reggie Jackson. 
 
Q. Marquis, at Florida A & M alumni could put together a pretty good outfield
couldn't they? Is there anybody else that would make up that outfield?
 
 MARQUIS GRISSOM: Those guys are a little bit before my time. And I had to play against
Andre Dawson back in 1989, when he was a real great player. And he still is. But I don't
think I can ever be the player he was, though. 
 
Q. I've got two questions, one is do you find it weird, ironic that the man with the
highest average in the World Series is going to be batting last for his team tomorrow
night. And secondly before you came in here, Jim Leyland, Charles Nagy and Mike Hargrove
they praised you. Jim Leyland said if he had a son he'd like him to be like you. What do
you feel about those kinds of comments?
 
 MARQUIS GRISSOM: I think Mike has done a great job with his ball club, moving guys in
and out and up and down. But you don't brag about it. You just go out there and play ball.
And the way I got to .400 or whatever I'm hitting, I hit 8th or 9th the last other two
games. I got there this way, and just go out there and try to continue. But the work
ethics, they come from home. That's where I learned to work hard and good things
happening. I think you go out there and you continue to work hard. You've got to work at
this game, it's already hard enough to go out there and just play. 
 
Q. Going back to the Marlins, back then when you thought about possibly going there,
what was the attraction, because at the time you couldn't have seen this?
 
 MARQUIS GRISSOM: At that time, a five year deal for myself where I never had a big
contract was good. And not only that, going to a team that was on the verge of having a
winning ball club who had played well for the first two years of expansion, and all the
guys in their front office, general manager, the head scouting guys, Gary Hughes, Frank
Wren, Dave Dombrowski, I knew them from the Expos experience. They knew my game and in and
out. It was a situation where I was pretty much going where I knew everybody, and a good
situation with a good contract. 
 
Q. Marquis, were you considered more of a pitcher or an outfielder at Florida A &
M?
 
 MARQUIS GRISSOM: Pitcher, drafted as a pitcher, but I like to play every day, and
that's the first thing I told Jerry Manuel, he was the bench coach, he's the guy I have to
thank, too, because he gave me the opportunity to go in the outfield. When I first got the
opportunity to pitch the first week, and he gave me the opportunity to go out and swing
the bat. 
 
Q. One and a follow-up, if I may. Marquis, has the adversity this team has faced this
year made a much more cohesive ball club than it was at the onset?
 
 MARQUIS GRISSOM: Definitely. I think that's the reason why we're here today. I think we
learned -- we got along, but we had to get along better than we did. We all had to come
together and pull for each other, root for each other, and play the game. We have to talk
about the game. If you don't like a person or get along with a person you're lacking in
that situation. You've got to talk about the game and your approach on the game tonight.
It definitely got us focusing and brought us together. 
 
Q. Of all the intangibles, where would you rank that as far as 1, 2, 3, in that order?
 
 MARQUIS GRISSOM: If that's what you're missing, that's number one. If you're missing
something else, it would be number two. And our aspect that's what we were missing, we
were missing that cohesiveness, where we had to go out and play as a team and pull
together and talk about the game. That's how you win, no matter how much talent you have,
you still have to go out there and talk about the game and play as a unit. 
 
Q. I've seen you have a big family and all these numbers of hundreds of people that
have come to watch you play. How many people are going to be here, and how are you able to
handle all the ticket requests you must get?
 
 MARQUIS GRISSOM: Well, it's pretty good, it's during a weekday. My mother, brother and
sister have to work, so only a few can come. My family has been supporting me from day
one. And it's pretty easy now to go out there and play. But the first couple of years of
my career it was tough. I was trying to support everybody, make sure everybody had a good
time, watch the games. And I learned my lesson in Atlanta. 
 
Q. What was the lesson?
 
 MARQUIS GRISSOM: I have to go out now and play baseball first, and then worry about
ticket requests, worry about making everybody else happy. I kind of got off track a little
bit my first year in Atlanta. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT