MLB WORLD SERIES: RANGERS v GIANTS
October 31, 2010
Bruce Bochy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







San Francisco Giants 4
  Texas Rangers  0

 Q. Assuming whether or not to let Bumgarner start the ninth was your toughest decision, did you have any others you needed to make?
 BRUCE BOCHY: Yeah, I talked to Buster when he came back after the 8th, and he wasn't quite as sharp in that inning. He did his job. Wilson hadn't thrown in a while. And that kid, I can't say enough about what he did tonight. I mean, 21-year-old kid on that stage pitching like that. He had it all working. 
 But he did his job, and Wilson had a good ninth inning. But there's no question Willy was coming in the game.

 Q. And your other decision if you had one?
 BRUCE BOCHY: I didn't have one. (Laughter). 

 Q. Considering Giant history and the great players that you guys parade out every night, how does it feel to be on the verge of possibly winning the first championship in Giant history with a group that you yourself have called misfits?
 BRUCE BOCHY: Well, we have baseball left. We're not going to get ahead of ourselves. We've got a tough pitcher tomorrow, a great team we're playing, and we'll go out there and give it our best tomorrow, and we'll talk about that if it does come to that. But right now we still have work ahead of us, and it's a seven-game series. As I said earlier, it's a number we have to get to to get to No. 4. 

 Q. Has Madison ever done anything to show you he's actually 21 years old?
 BRUCE BOCHY: No, I've said this. This kid we brought up last year had a spot start for Johnson. He had great poise, composure, sense of belonging. He's a man. A 21-year-old guy to go out there and do what he did tonight. But I'll go back to last year, you know, he had to go back to Fresno. Worked on some things. You give him credit how hard he worked to get back here. As soon as he came up, the way he's handled everything has been so impressive. He's a special talent, and we're grateful we have him. 
 You know, he does a lot of good things, holds runners, he can swing the bat. He's a good athlete.

 Q. When you put together tonight's lineup, how much were you thinking about defense? 
 BRUCE BOCHY: Well, I mentioned that in the pregame meeting. That was a big part of it, defense. What a job they did. Sanchez had a great game, Ross made a nice catch out there. The left side of our infield, I mean, they played very well. And when the pitcher pounds the strike zone the way Madison did tonight, it helps the defense and make them that much better, and he did. He threw strikes on both sides of the plate. He had all his pitches working.

 Q. Aubrey Huff obviously hit a big home run tonight and he's been huge for you this year. What did you think of him when you guys acquired him? 
 BRUCE BOCHY: Well, to be honest, I hadn't really gotten a long look at Aubrey. He played a little bit with Houston, but he's always been in the American League. He had some good years there. I mean, he got a Silver Slugger Award over there. My bigger concern was defense. Worked hard at first base, he worked him at right field, left field. He claims to be the best athlete on the team if you talk to him, but he has done a great job wherever we put him and he has stabilized our lineup. He's a better player, I'll say this, than even I thought. I knew he was a good player, but he's even better than I thought. 

 Q. How would you describe what Renteria has done for you so far in this recent post-season?
 BRUCE BOCHY: Well, Edgar has been through it. Guys look up to him. He's got that leadership you like from a veteran. He's excited about playing right now. He wants to be out there, and he's really been a calming influence, I think, on everybody else in the way he plays and how he plays to win. He's really lifted this club. He's had a tough year with the injuries, but it's probably benefitted him a little bit because he's fresh. 
 I don't know what he's going to do next year, but I will say he's playing like he wants to keep going. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT