NL DIVISION SERIES: GIANTS VS CUBS
October 7, 2016
Bruce Bochy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Open it up for questions, please.   
 Q.  What went into the thinking to start Samardzija tomorrow instead of Moore and will Moore have any starts in this series?  
BRUCE BOCHY: Yeah, both of them are going to start.  It's really Jeff's turn.  It's been awhile since he's been out there.  He's pitched well, he's earned this.  I could have gone with either one, but Jeff's body of work has been very good too, along with Matty, so, really, I just felt it was Jeff's turn.  He hasn't been out there in a while and I don't want to sit him four or five days before he pitches.  He has pitched here at Wrigley Field, that played a part in it.   
 Q.  So then Moore Game 4, is that the plan?  
BRUCE BOCHY: Right.  Right.   
 Q.  Tough question.  
BRUCE BOCHY: Yeah.  No, he's got Game 4 and after Jeff pitches, he'll be available in the bullpen to help us out.   
 Q.  Do you have to manage in Wrigley Field different than you do in other ballparks and if so what does that say about the place?  
BRUCE BOCHY: No, it's a ballpark.  You play the same.  Sometimes maybe if the wind's howling out there and you figure it's going to be a high scoring game, you may manage a little bit different.  But this time of year, no, you're going to manage a game the same way I think you would in any Postseason game.  Just do all you can to win the game.   
 Q.  On the Cubs starter for Game 2, Kyle Hendricks, what's your take on seeing a guy succeed the way he has without the big velocity?  
BRUCE BOCHY: Well, he's a true pitcher.  You look at other guys who don't have that velocity, they're smart pitchers.  They have movement on the ball and they have great command.  He's one of those guys, he changes speeds, he's tough.  The ball's sinking, he's got a great changeup, a great motion on it, it's hard to read the pitch.  And any time a pitcher can change pitches and locate, it's a tough battle.  He's had a great year.   
 Q.  If I could follow that up, as much National League ball as you've seen, what does it say to have the Cubs lead the league in ERA?  
BRUCE BOCHY: It's really impressive what their starters have done.  Not just him, but Lester, all of them.  This rotation they have has just had a great year.  Usually, if you win over a hundred games you're going to look at the rotation and see a really, really good one, and they have that.  But in this ballpark, to do what's done, that's impressive.  It is.  He's a Maddux-type pitcher, he's is cerebral, great stuff, great command, moves the ball around well, and it's been awhile since we have seen him.   
 Q.  Even though you've done a lot of traveling all different parts of the country the last few days, how helpful is it that this just sort of fits into the rhythm of baseball when you're kind of playing and traveling almost every day for six months?  
BRUCE BOCHY: It's nice.  It's nice to have the days off, too.  We had a travel day yesterday and it was a long travel day, too.  Coming from New York to here you would think we were heading to Europe between all the waiting in traffic and the waiting on the airplane, it was about six or seven hours.  But it's good to stay in the flow of things, it is, I'll be honest.  Not take too much time off and it doesn't give you too much time to think about anything.  We had to get here yesterday and play today.  But a lot of guys do take a break, you celebrate your win, it gives you a day to just move on and get over that and focus on today.   
THE MODERATOR: All right.  Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT