NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: GIANTS v PHILLIES
October 19, 2010
Bruce Bochy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Questions for Bruce Bochy.  
  
  Q. You have a lot of different lineup things going today. Can you tell us why you moved guys where you moved them?  
 BRUCE BOCHY: First of all, Uribe, he's a go. Came in, took some swings, got his treatment. So he's out there. And with Torres not playing today, we felt like Edgar was our best option to lead off, and that's why he's at short and moving up to the 6 hole, facing a tough left-hander today.   
 I did this a few times earlier in the season and decided to drop him down there and drop -- or move up Buster and Burrell and Ross in the 5 hole. With Torres searching right now, Rowand gets a start. He's in the 8 hole.  
  
  Q. Just to clarify, I think what you're saying was that Edgar at short over a combination of Pablo and Uribe had as much to do with the fact that you felt Edgar would be a better choice at lead-off, lead-off with Torres not playing?  
 BRUCE BOCHY: That's exactly what I'm saying; that we felt like we needed a lead-off hitter and Edgar is our best option with Torres not in there.  
  
  Q. Do you feel, with Torres, that a night off might help him get back to where you want to be? Are you concerned at all moving forward with him?  
 BRUCE BOCHY: I think stepping back will help him out. And you say that about a lot of hitters who are struggling a little bit. And there's a lefty going today. And there were times when we gave him a day against left-handed pitching.   
 But I think sitting back, watching the game, will give him a break. Especially mentally more than anything.   
 And I'll tell you, the kid's doing great, though. He was out here yesterday and he's in a good frame of mind, and I will say it's nice to have him available to come off the bench whether it's pinch run or double-switch or pinch-hit.  
  
  Q. Are you pretty much going day-by-day now with the lineup playing matchups, that sort of thing?  
 BRUCE BOCHY: Yeah, Chris, I'd say that's fair to say there. Although, with the right-hander, you'll see probably our regular lineup out there tomorrow, going tomorrow.  
  
  Q. With all the changes you made, was there one that was the toughest for you to make or are they all pretty much the same?  
 BRUCE BOCHY: Well, a lot depended on how Juan was doing. So I had to wait until I get the okay that he was going.   
 But not really. You know, we talked about it quite a bit on the way back from Philly, before the workout yesterday and after. And I was pretty sure this was the lineup that we would go with.  
  
  Q. So what were the results of Juan's MRI?  
 BRUCE BOCHY: Actually, it turned out clean. There's nothing structurally wrong. It did show some inflammation, but he was fine once the swelling went down. And we got it down and he feels good right now.  
  
  Q. What did you see out of Bumgarner in his first start?  
 BRUCE BOCHY: I saw a kid that went out there and competed very well. Had good stuff. He was throwing hard. I've said this so many times about him since we brought him up here, for a 21-year-old kid, I just love the way he carries himself. He handles himself out on the mound, keeps his poise and competes very well. But he has good stuff to go with it and did a great job in that game.  
  
  Q. You've played four games on the road. Can you talk about what being at home and the home-field advantage will bring to you today with the fan support?  
 BRUCE BOCHY: Well, it's always good to be home playing in front of your fans. They've done a lot for us down the stretch here. San Diego series, we lost two games, but they were right behind us in that last game, as loud as ever.   
 And I think any team in the postseason will tell you it's good to be home and have your fans behind it.   
 But I will say Philly, that first game, I was proud of how the guys played on the road there in Atlanta, but it's always good to be home.   
 I'm sure players have a bigger sense of comfort, whatever, when they're at home. They know the ballpark. Of course, the fan support.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about facing Cole Hamels today and what you guys are going to try to do to get on base and generate some offense?  
 BRUCE BOCHY: Well, he's throwing the ball well, we know it, down the stretch. He's really been on top of his game, and of course the game in Cincinnati. It's hard to throw better than what he did in that game, and it's all about competing.   
 They've got some great pitching over there, and he's one of them. All of them are No. 1 type guys. And you go up there and you compete. I mean, he's got a good fastball, cutter, change-up. And we've seen them, and now it's a matter you go up there and compete and have a game plan.  
  
  Q. Edgar has talked about retiring at the end of this season. Just wondering if you had any kind of conversations with him about that and whether you get the sense that if he does retire he kind of wants to go out with a bang?  
 BRUCE BOCHY: I have had a couple conversations with Edgar. I'd like to keep that between us, though. We did talk about what his plans are and it's been a tough year for him, with the injuries. But I will say through all those, you know, he's worked hard to get back to helping us.   
 And, of course, the bicep situation came up. But he's worked through that. And he feels great right now. He's been through it.   
 And I can't tell you what his plans are. But I will say he wants to go out winning. And that's the type of player he is. He's got a ring. He's done something we all would dream of doing, and that's get a base hit to win the World Series.   
 But I know having been there, he'd like to get there again.  
  
  Q. I wanted to clarify on Torres, would you expect him back in there against a righty tomorrow?  
 BRUCE BOCHY: Yeah.  
  
  Q. Cody Ross is almost becoming a folk hero in these playoffs. Are you surprised not that he's hitting the ball but that he's doing it against the competition that he's done it against so far?  
 BRUCE BOCHY: I can't say surprised. I mean, this kid's -- he's a good player. He's a good hitter. And he's got some pitches to hit, and he hasn't missed them. But he's shown that he is a good hitter. He can -- like all hitters, when they get in a nice streak, they're going to do some damage, and that's the type of player he is. Gives you power, but he also gives you good defense. He's a good base runner.   
 But I can't say I'm surprised. I mean, he's been playing for a while and he's a nice player that became available and it worked out great for us.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Bruce.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT