NL DIVISION SERIES: CARDINALS v PADRES
October 3, 2006
Bruce Bochy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Can you talk a little bit about some of the decisions you made as far as the makeup of your roster?   
 BRUCE BOCHY:  Yeah, I mean, they weren't easy decisions, but you know, we decided to go with Ryan Klesko, who is healthy.  He's been swinging the bat well.  Khalil Greene, we feel like he's playable.  He's not going to start, but we feel like he's a guy we can use late in the ball game for defense.  Doesn't mean he's not going to start in this series, but at this point Blum is going to be out there.   
 As far as the pitching, we decided to go with Chan Ho Park, who can help out long or middle relief, and Rudy Seanez, two experienced guys.  We have some guys who have done a great job for us all year but you gotta get down to 25.  That was the thought behind what we decided to do.   
  
  Q.  How well can Greene swing the bat right now?   
 BRUCE BOCHY:  He's fine.  Greene is fine.  He just hasn't played a lot.  He had three at-bats the last game there in Arizona, big for him.  Seen some pitches.  He's comfortable with the hand and actually took some good swings.   
 Just at this point, you know, Blum has been doing a good job.  That's why he's out there.   
  
  Q.  Is Boomer your guy for game two?   
 BRUCE BOCHY:  David Wells is pitching game two.   
  
  Q.  Again, what went into the decision of Boomer going tomorrow instead of game three?   
 BRUCE BOCHY:  It's really his spot.  He's on normal rest, and, you know, he's a guy that has a lot of experience, and so we had this pretty much locked in at Peavy would go game one and David game two.   
  
  Q.  Did Chris's record on the road figure into this also?   
 BRUCE BOCHY:  Well, more so Chris, we just wanted to give him a little more rest.  He's fine.  He's good to go, but you know, the way it was set up here, we want to keep those two on their normal rotation.   
  
  Q.  Bruce, when making the call on the relievers, you're going to put on the roster did you weigh heavily with experience?   
 BRUCE BOCHY:  That played a huge part.  You know, with Adkins and Sweeney and Cassidy, Williamson, you know, it wasn't an easy decision.  But Chan Ho is the guy, he's done a lot for us this year, too.  He's pitched in the bullpen and he's also a guy we think can give us multiple innings, with Rudy, we think he's been throwing the ball well and he has experience, too.   
 So they weren't easy decisions, but, you know, we feel comfortable with those two out there.   
  
  Q.  This is the third time you've gone against Tony La Russa in your time and his time as managers.  What do you think of his job with this team the last 10, 11 years?   
 BRUCE BOCHY:  I can't be honest.  He's sitting over there.   
 No, I said this yesterday.  I couldn't have more respect for Tony La Russa.  I said that he's going to go down as one of the best managers in all time.  That's what I think about the man.  He's brilliant.  Certainly been tough on us.   
 I know it and, you know, you have your work cut out and it's a good ball club.  Tremendous manager, and should be a great series.  And it's always a challenge, but, you know, this is what you're playing for.  Both clubs, starts in Spring Training, seven weeks, 162 games.  Now you are getting a chance to play here in the post-season.  We're excited about it and we know we're going to have to play our best ball to beat them.   
  
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT