NL DIVISION SERIES: PADRES v CARDINALS
October 8, 2005
Bruce Bochy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Is there any update on Jake Peavy?  Have you made any thoughts towards what you would do in Game 5 if it gets that far? 

BRUCE BOCHY:  With Jake, we're not going to really do anything with him right now.  I mean, we talked about giving him some kind of injection, cortisone, whatever, to maybe ease the pain, to see if he could pitch.  At this point, no, we decided not to.  If this goes farther, then that is an option.  You know, there is I guess a very small risk that if we did that, there could be some effects from it.  We've elected not to do anything with Jake.  Now, as far as it going further, no, at this point we're just focused on tonight's game.  That's the way we have to look at it.  We can't look at what happened there in St. Louis.  We can't look at Game 4 or 5.  We got to look at today's game and hopefully get a win here, then we'll go game by game at this point. 

Q.  The situation you're in tonight, 2-0, facing elimination, how does that change the bullpen for tonight?  Do you have extra arms, starters you're going to think about using?  What happens there? 

BRUCE BOCHY:  Well, at this point everybody's available that we're not going to overuse.  We're not going to use Astacio.  But, you know, Lawrence is in the bullpen.  We could go to Hoffman early, Linebrink early.  We're going to do whatever it takes we think to win a ballgame.  It's do or die at this point.  We're not going to hold anybody back or be concerned about tomorrow.  We know if we don't win, then it's over.  I think the bullpen, they realize that.  We'll let them know that we'll use anybody at any time. 

Q.  Why did you decide to go with Fick tonight instead of Sweeney? 

BRUCE BOCHY:  It gives us I think probably our best pinch hitter coming off the bench.  We think they're very similar type players.  Just decided to go with Fick, start him.  I think over all he is our best defensive first baseman.  I think Sweeney is our best pinch hitter.  Mark has been doing a good job since he has gotten some starts.  I just decided to go with Fick.  It's very close between the two.  I wish I had a better reason besides what I just told you.  I think Sweeney is our best guy coming off the bench.  Fick is probably our all-around best defensive first baseman. 

Q.  Is this a tough situation for Adam?  He might pitch, he might not pitch.  Does he just go prepare like he normally does?

BRUCE BOCHY:  Well, I think he prepares like he normally does.  I know he's really pulling for us.  I know he wants that opportunity to pitch.  I'd like for him to get it, believe me, especially coming off his last start.  I think we have the right guy out there today to hopefully get us a win and swing this momentum.  I know Adam is very eager to get out on the mound and pitch.  This would be a first time for him.  So hopefully it happens. 

Q.  What you said earlier, does that mean that Jake in this series is out?

BRUCE BOCHY:  I would say he's out, yes.  I don't see Jake pitching this series.  Hopefully it goes further, and we have to answer this question on Game 5, if he could give us some work.  I would say he's out.  Not a hundred percent, but 99. 

BRUCE BOCHY:  Thank you. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT