MLB WORLD SERIES: PADRES v YANKEES
October 21, 1998
Bruce Bochy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Talk about the Yankees.
 
 BRUCE BOCHY: Yankees -- it's been an incredible year for them. They did it all season,
they did it in the postseason, I said that this club, the Yankees I'm talking about, has
to go down as one of the greatest teams of all times. We had them on the ropes, and they
came back on us. They had no weakness on that club. They had starting pitching, relief
throughout their line-up, they just do a great job, and I tip my hat to them, because I do
think they should go down as one of the best teams ever. 
 
Q. Did you get a chance to see Joe Torre and shake his hand tonight?
 
 BRUCE BOCHY: I just tried to, and I couldn't get to him because of the media, but
before he leaves I'd like to tell him congratulations, because it's been one heck of a
year for them. 
 
Q. Did Kevin Brown bunt on his own with the bases loaded?
 
 BRUCE BOCHY: Yeah, he's done that before, and he's gotten base hits with it, and the
ball just -- it didn't roll far enough away, but he'll bunt it any time. 
 
Q. And the thinking on the infield in with Brosius up?
 
 BRUCE BOCHY: Well, with Kevin up there, he's been giving up a lot of toppers, and we
could not afford to give up another run, we didn't have him all the way in, we had him at
what we call in between, there, and we could still turn two from there. And we just felt
we weren't in a situation to give up another run, and we couldn't play all the way back,
but they were not all the way in. 
 
Q. How did you see that play at first base when Leyritz slid in?
 
 BRUCE BOCHY: Well, it's hard for me to see, to be honest, it was bang, bang. And
obviously we wanted the call. Kevin was there, and I don't know if Jim realizes how quick
Kevin is at covering first base, and he was there to take the throw, but Jim felt like he
could take it himself. And from my angle it was hard to see. But going by Kevin's
reaction, he was out, and  
 that's why I was arguing. 
 
Q. Can you reflect briefly on your season?
 
 BRUCE BOCHY: Well, it's been a hell of a run. We weren't expected to win our division,
we weren't expected to beat Houston or Atlanta, and I can't say enough about the hard
determination our club played with. And for us to get here, it's a long road. It takes a
lot of effort and these guys put it in, from Spring Training on, and I couldn't be prouder
of them. They're champions, they're National League champions, and that's all I said to
them. You have to keep your head up. 
 
Q. Andy Pettitte, can you comment on his performance tonight especially going against
Kevin Brown?
 
 BRUCE BOCHY: Well, really first time we had a chance to see him. And he was on. He was
locating his fastball well, had his change-up, curve ball working, and did a great job on
us. He's a good pitcher, and he showed it tonight, and going against Kevin Brown, I know
they knew they needed a great pitching effort and they got it. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT