MLB WORLD SERIES: PADRES v YANKEES
October 20, 1998
Bruce Bochy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Bruce, Hoffman hadn't pitched in six days, it looked like his fastball was lacking,
do you think he was rusty tonight?
 
 BRUCE BOCHY: I think he can answer that better than me. It's obvious he didn't have his
best stuff. He's gone this long without pitching before. We talked about this before,
because he hadn't pitched in a while, he'd rather get his work in the bullpen, and come in
in his usual situation. So I don't know if that played a part in his location or not. 
 
Q. Can you talk about your decision to pinch run Vander Wal, and pinch hit with Sheets?
 
 BRUCE BOCHY: Well, against Rivera, we feel like the right-hand hitters are getting as
good at-bats as our left-handers. Vander Wal hit off him in New York, and Myers did, too,
and we felt like the right-hand hitters were seeing the ball better. Vaughn had a good
at-bat, that's why I let Hernandez hit there. The ball was cutting in on the lefties, and
we said before an inning, if it got to that situation, we'd let our right handers hit
there. 
 
Q. Can you explain why you went to Trevor so early?
 
 BRUCE BOCHY: Well, it's obvious this was a huge game for us, and I said before the
game, if it was a situation where we had a one-run lead or two-run lead, and it was in the
8th inning, I would have started with him. When Myers walked the first hitter, I didn't
want to leave Trevor down there and not use him. He's fresh, he's gone two innings before.
It didn't work out today. But in a game like this, sure, we had to win today. We felt like
this was a huge game for us, and it just got away from us. 
 
Q. What will be your approach for tomorrow's game?
 
 BRUCE BOCHY: We will just give it our all. That's all you can do, now. We're down three
games. The odds are against us, and there's not much else to say, but go out there and
play your hearts out, and this club will do it. 
 
Q. Is Brown well enough to start tomorrow?
 
 BRUCE BOCHY: Yeah, he's fine to go tomorrow.  
 
Q. Caminiti looks like on some of his swings he's bothered by his hamstring or groin,
how good is he at this point?
 
 BRUCE BOCHY: Well, I checked with him before the game, he said he felt fine. That one
at-bat he fouled a ball off his knee, and kind of numbed his leg a little bit for a couple
of minutes, but he said it went away. And I'll check on him as soon as I get back. 
 
Q. How good are these Yankees?
 
 BRUCE BOCHY: Well, they're an outstanding ballclub. They've had a great year. Again, we
had them tonight, and they came back. Brosius had a big day against us. We got a ball up
there and he can handle it. But they're so solid throughout that line-up. They just don't
depend on their three, four guys throughout the line-up, they get contribution from
everyone, and they got it tonight. 
 
Q. What was the reaction in the dugout after the home run, hadn't seen Trevor lose too
many games?
 
 BRUCE BOCHY: Obviously it wasn't a right moment for us. You hate to see that, but the
team battled back. We came back and scored a run, and we threatened in the 9th, I think it
says a lot about our ballclub, we just fell short tonight. 
 
Q. Are you surprised at all that given the fact that Trevor pitched so well, to have
two blown in the postseason?
 
 BRUCE BOCHY: Well, I think anytime it doesn't work out with Trevor on the mound, sure
you're surprised, because you're so used to him doing a great job. But he's human, and you
know a couple base on balls, then you've got to pitch up. But the guy's had a tremendous
year. And the fact that, sure, he's had a couple of rough moments this postseason, but
he's one of the best closers in the game, and I'll take my chances with him out there. 
 
Q. You've lost three straight heart breakers at home, how tough has it been?
 
 BRUCE BOCHY: It's tough. This game reaches in and grabs your guts out. When you lose
games like this, sure, it's tough to take. But it's the hard part of this game. Winning is
great, but losing, especially in the World Series, it's tough. And now our backs are to
the wall, we know that. The only thing we can do is go out and play our hearts out. 
 
Q. What did Kevin say to you to let you know that he's ready to pitch tomorrow?
 
 BRUCE BOCHY: He just said, hey, I'm fine to go. I'm good to go. He still -- I don't
think he's a hundred percent, and we'll keep a close eye on him tomorrow. 
 
Q. Back to the 6th when Hitchcock was able to get out of that inning, how did you see
it from your vantage point?
 
 BRUCE BOCHY: Oh, just a real gutsy job there by Hitchcock. He's done such a great job
for us, and he got in a jam. And we stuck with him, and he showed his makeup, just showed
great composure, and he made great pitches there. Can't say enough about what he's done
for us this postseason, and for him to pitch out of that jam, just shows you what he's
about. 
 
Q. Can you talk about the fans, and the atmosphere they 
 
 created tonight? 
 BRUCE BOCHY: It doesn't get any better than the situation here at our stadium. These
fans are just tremendous. The whole postseason they've been this way. And they've given us
tremendous support throughout the season. But for them to show their enthusiasm the way
they're doing, it's so appreciative on our end, and they're playing their part, and
they're helping us, we just fell short again. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT