MLB WORLD SERIES: PADRES v YANKEES
October 17, 1998
Bruce Bochy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. What advantage does Orlando Hernandez have since the Padres have not faced him?

BRUCE BOCHY: I think it is his advantage. In fact, we haven't seem him. I think any
time a hitter hasn't seen a pitcher, sure, there's a slight advantage to the pitcher.
First time up, they'll be learning about him. But, you know, it's tough when you haven't
seen a guy. We'll battle up there. It's a case where first time around, they'll get to
know him a little bit.

Q. One of the things he did against Cleveland was step off every time a batter was
ready to hit, trying to frustrate them and get their timing off. How do you prepare your
hitters because El Duque steps off?

BRUCE BOCHY: Well, we can step out too. You know, I think that the thing there is just,
you know, remind the hitters keep your focus and concentration. You know, there's a lot of
pitchers that work slow in the league. We're not thinking about that right now.

Q. How do you feel about your starter for Game 2?

BRUCE BOCHY: I feel great about Andy. He's a big reason why we're in this situation,
and I have all the confidence in the world. I think we're pretty lucky to have a pitcher
like Andy Ashby.

Q. Can you talk about Joyner, Vaughn and Gwynn; how their health is right now?

BRUCE BOCHY: Well, it's obvious they're doing well because they're playing. That was
one thing I talked about yesterday as far as my line up, if one of them is hurting, I'll
either DH or give them all a day. They're all doing great. Vaughn says he feels terrific.
Tony, there's no way he wanted to DH, he was adamant about that. Wally feels great. It's
worked out well.

Q. More on Andy, has he been a little underrated in your mind?

BRUCE BOCHY: I don't think so. I think in the National League he's getting the
attention he deserves. He made the All-Star team, had a tremendous year, had the
tendinitis there that set him back a little bit. We think a lot of him obviously because
we signed him to a long-term deal. Again, we're lucky to have a pitcher of this caliber.

Q. What kind of a pitcher is Andy?

BRUCE BOCHY: He's a good pitcher. (Laughing) He's got four good pitches. He throws hard
and has good command. I mean he's got great stuff with great make up.

Q. Bruce, because of tendinitis you mentioned him, is he a candidate to pitch on three
days rest or would you definitely have to give him four?

BRUCE BOCHY: I think Andy can pitch in three days. I wouldn't hesitate. He's fine. In
fact, in the All-Star game, he pitched the last game I think of the first half, had a day
off, went out and pitched. He's very resilient. He's healthy right now. So if needed,
sure, we would do that.

Q. Can you tell me any precautions you're taking to battle the Yankees running game?

BRUCE BOCHY: We like to keep them off base. I think that's the best way to go about it.
That's what we're going to be trying to do. But if they get on base, you know, there's
ways you can throw over, pitch out, things like that. So, you know, we're a similar type
team. We like to run.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT