MLB WORLD SERIES: PADRES v YANKEES
October 17, 1998
Bruce Bochy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Bruce, do you feel the 2-2 pitch to Tino was a strike?

BRUCE BOCHY: It was obvious we would like to have had it. Langston, he thought it was
there. Carlos thought it was there. It's hard to see it in the dugout. I haven't seen the
play. It turned out to be a big pitch and the ball didn't go our way.

Q. What was your mindset when you took Brown out?

BRUCE BOCHY: Well, we said before the inning started if he scuffed at all, we're going
to get him. He was getting there. He did his job. He pitched a great game for us, took a
great shot off the shin. I know he wasn't saying much about it, but I caught him pretty
good. We talked about it, and said, hey, if he struggles at all, which he started to, we
felt he was at that point. And Donne came in, he'd been in that situation all year. It
just didn't work out.

Q. After he misses on the 2-2 pitch, what's Mark trying to do on a 3-2 pitch?

BRUCE BOCHY: Well, there's not a whole lot you can do. You have to throw a strike and
that's all he was trying to do. You have no place to put them. He was frustrated. Mark was
-- he was upset. You know, it's tough when a call doesn't go your way. It certainly hurt
us there.

Q. What was happening with the bullpen in the last three days, do you have anyone
besides Trevor you can really depend on?

BRUCE BOCHY: Sure we do. This bullpen has done a great job for us. You know, Donne is a
big reason why, you know, we've had a good year in that bullpen, and it didn't work out
for him today. I thought Langston made some good pitches. You know, you give them credit.
They came back on us, but the big inning killed us. It's something we have to stop. You
know, all these games, bullpens are going to play a role. You have to go to them. We feel
like we had a good bullpen here.

Q. Is there something wrong with Miceli?

BRUCE BOCHY: No, actually, Miceli is doing pretty good now. Toward the end of the
Atlanta series, his arm was fatigued there. But he's okay to go now. 

Q. Bruce, the Yankees are known so much for taking pitchers deep in to counts. Brown,
early on especially, had a lot of three-ball counts. Was that more of the Yankees working
him or was that Kevin?

BRUCE BOCHY: Well, I think a little bit of both. You know, I thought he made some good
pitches too. But he did run some deep counts there. He worked hard out there. You know, he
was out of his routine a little bit because he was going to start that seventh game in
Atlanta, but I thought -- he pitched well. He did his job. You know, we just couldn't hold
them with our bullpen.

Q. Tino was struggling a lot going through the series. Does it hurt a little more that
he was the one that beat you?

BRUCE BOCHY: Well, he's a good hitter. You're hoping he doesn't get on track. But you
know, you look back and you know when Langston threw a 2-2 pitch, you're wanting it bad
and it didn't happen. Mark had to come at him. He got all of it.

Q. How much of a wasted opportunity was this game? Do you consider it that way, that
you had a lead with one of your best pitchers?

BRUCE BOCHY: Well, I don't think it's a wasted opportunity. Sure, you hate to lose a
5-2 lead. You know, this is something we'll have to put behind us. But, you know, that's a
good ball club over there. I thought we played well, thought we swung the bats well, off
of Wells. We came out and, you know, played a good ball game until the 7th inning, it got
out of hand there. That's what a big inning will do to you.

Q. Are you saving Joey Hamilton, is there a reason you didn't use him tonight?

BRUCE BOCHY: Joey was available. But, again, Donne's been in that situation all year,
all year we've used him in that 7th inning and he's done a good job there. You know, you
kind of stay with what got you here and, you know, we felt like Donne would get the job
done. It didn't happen. He needs to put that behind him because this bullpen, it's going
to get used this series. They need to keep their confidence up.

Q. Did you compare Kevin's performance tonight with his three previous starts in his
postseason?

BRUCE BOCHY: Well, I think it's fair to say he, you know, he wasn't quite on. He threw
a great game. You know, again, he did his job. But there were, I think, the ball off his
shin, it affected him. It was on his landing foot there, he wasn't saying much about it.
But it caught him good, and -- but to compare him, hey, he did a great job this outing.
Just like his previous ones.

Q. How bad does his shin hurt?

BRUCE BOCHY: I don't know. I need to talk to the trainers. Again, he wasn't saying much
about it. I didn't know it hit him that good, the way he reacted. But he's that tough. You
know, he's not going to say it's bothering him. But I think he'll be fine.

Q. Which was it, left or right? 

BRUCE BOCHY: The left.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT