NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: PADRES v BRAVES
October 14, 1998
Bruce Bochy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Bruce, your first 19 batters took the first strike. Was the gameplan to try to get
Tom into a high pitch count to get in their bullpen early?

BRUCE BOCHY: Well, we were going to try to make them work a little bit and get the ball
up. He was making some good pitches on the first pitch. You're trying to be aggressive at
the same time. But these guys know his control. We did make him work a little bit.

Q. Bruce, every game seemed to be really tight and it seemed to be one basic inning
that kind of turned things around. If you could put your finger on what the difference was
this series, what do you think it was?

BRUCE BOCHY: I tell you, it's hard to put your finger on that. I thought both teams
played incredible baseball. The series, I don't know if it could get any better than that.
And it comes down to pitching. Last game, Hitchcock, I can't say enough about what he did.
Through the whole postseason, he had to go against Johnson and Maddux and Glavine. He gave
us what we needed on three day's rest. But we got a very fine pitched ballgame today.

Q. Is there a risk in running Vaughn with his leg on that full count pitch to Caminiti?

BRUCE BOCHY: Well, I had some concern there. And I talked to the trainers, and said,
"Is it all right to put him in motion, if I have, to during the game?" They
felt, yeah, he's fine to go. He actually felt very good before the game. And he was going
to make a little adjustment in his running, not pick his legs up so high because of that
quad. But I felt like I had to put him in motion, because I'm confident Cami is going to
put the ball in play and be aggressive there.

Q. What did you say to Hitchcock when you took him out?

BRUCE BOCHY: I just told him what a great job he did. He pitched on three day's rest.
He's going against Glavine. He wanted the ball, and he did a tremendous job for us.

Q. Was he unhappy to leave?

BRUCE BOCHY: Well, he didn't say he was unhappy. I'm sure we wouldn't stay out there.
His pitch count was getting up there, he was approaching a hundred pitches. I don't know
exactly where he was. With him going on three days, with a fresh bullpen, he had taken us
far enough.

Q. You could go so far as to call him dominant in the postseason so far. Is this a
higher level you ever envisioned for him?

BRUCE BOCHY: To be honest, no. He pitched very well for us this year. We started him in
the bullpen early in the season, but when he went in rotation, he gave us some terrific
games. That's why we said he was going to be the third starter in the postseason. He had
to go against the best pitchers in the game. We have all the confidence in the world with
Hitchcock, and it shows what he's made up of, because he did a great job.

Q. 14 years coaching, first time as a player. Now as a coach, how exciting is it feel
to be going to New York?

BRUCE BOCHY: It doesn't get any better than this. It's a euphoric feeling that's hard
to describe. I've never been in Yankee Stadium. I was a role player at the World Series,
but as a manager, you play a little bigger role. When you lose a game, sure, there's going
to be games they question. And you're on the spot a little bit more. So I have to say,
this is a lot sweeter this time.

Q. Bruce, how important was it for you to transmit to the team that you were confident
in the decision you made with Kevin Brown the other day; that you weren't second-guessing
yourself; that it was a solid decision?

BRUCE BOCHY: Well, I think the team had all the confidence in the world when Kevin
Brown went out there. If I had to do it again -- in fact, I thought that was one of my
best decisions. It just didn't work out. And that's part of this game. But I had my best
guy out there. But I don't regret that, and I'd do it again.

Q. Is that part of what some managers call "Losing the right way"?

BRUCE BOCHY: Exactly. To me it was a win/win situation. I had my best guy out there,
but something did happen, like it did, he was still available for tomorrow's game. So I
just felt like I couldn't lose and it made all the sense in the world. I felt for Kevin,
because he's the one that jump-started us. With the game against Houston, he gave us a
sense of confidence. I felt bad for him. But for me, it was the right move to make.

Q. You hadn't use Boehringer much in this series. What told you to go to him today?

BRUCE BOCHY: Well, actually, Dave Stewart and I talked about a bullpen situation before
the game and created scenarios, and he was on me to use Boehringer. He had a lot of
confidence in him. Dave Stewart and I talk a lot and he was the one that really felt like
Boeh could do the job. And Chipper Jones hit left-handed. I'm sure he was going: Why bring
in Boehringer? He was the freshest and threw very well for us down the stretch.

Q. What do you know about Sterling's hitting that you let him bat with bases loaded?

BRUCE BOCHY: I know he has one of the ugliest swings that you'll ever see. He has the
knack of putting the ball in play. I wanted to get another inning or two out of him. He
battles up there, and we got a break, there's no question about it. Because they almost
made a great play on it, the ball bounced away from them.

Q. Is Kevin your starting pitcher Saturday night?

BRUCE BOCHY: Yes, he will be. 

Q. One more, you started two runners there in the five-run inning, both of them a
little bit of gamble, what was your thinking: Get the bats of your hitters, not try for
homeruns?

BRUCE BOCHY: I had confidence in my hitters they're going to put the ball in play.
Glavine is a controlled pitcher; hits a lot of ground balls, and I want to stay out of the
double play. It was a concern with Greg Vaughn, putting him in motion. The trainers said,
"Let him go. He's fine." And they felt like he wouldn't pull anything.

Q. Did Vaughn want to come out of that game?

BRUCE BOCHY: I don't think a team of horses would have gotten him out of there. Tony
game-faced me when I made the double switch. They all wanted to be out there. I can't say
enough about Tony, because he played today, I asked him a couple of times if he was okay
to go, because he's pretty banged up with his knee and his he'll. But he said, no way, I'm
going to stay out there.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT