NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: PADRES v BRAVES
October 14, 1998
Bruce Bochy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Any line-up changes?
 
 BRUCE BOCHY: Well, Greg Vaughn is playing left field tonight. I guess that would be a
line-up change. He hasn't been in there in a few days. Leyritz will be behind the plate.
He normally catches Hitchcock, and the usual line-up. 
 
Q. Bruce, do you sense a different mental outlook for your team as opposed when you
guys were up 3-0?
 
 BRUCE BOCHY: No. I think they've approached every game the same. This club does a great
job of preparing themselves to play, and whether you win or lose, they do a good job of
putting that behind them. And I think they're going to approach this game the same as they
approached the first game of the series or the second, third or whatever. 
 
Q. Bruce, after Game 5, there was music going on in your clubhouse; kind of rare after
a loss. Was that your idea, something that you think just kind of fosters the attitude
that there's nothing to worry about, just be happy?
 
 BRUCE BOCHY: Well, first of all, it wasn't my idea; that's not my kind of music. But it
was a loose group. They're having fun with this. It's been a tough series, but you have to
enjoy it, too, and don't put too much pressure on yourselves. And this type of club, they
don't do that. We're not one to dwell on the loss. It was frustrating, but after that,
these guys turned on the music and they're having a good time. 
 
Q. You've been watching baseball a long time, and I know you've got no feeling where
you were, but what we saw sitting out here, did you have any idea what a memorable ball
game that was?
 
 BRUCE BOCHY: Well, the next day I reflected back and said, "That was quite a
ballgame." It's obvious we came out on the wrong end. But there were a lot of things
that happened in that ballgame, very intense game, and I did look back and say, "You
know what, that was some kind of ballgame." When you have two aces that come in from
the bullpen and all the things that happened in that game, sure, I reflected back and
said, "That was quite a game." 
 
Q. Does it bother you at all that the way the postseason schedule was set up that the
National League team would end -- the National League series would end a day later, which
would give the American League the home field advantage and the extra day of rest
potentially?
 
 BRUCE BOCHY: No. No, to be honest, I didn't even think about that. I know that was the
case. That might be because they need time to prepare, since the American League opens up
in their city. But I never gave it one thought. 
 
Q. Does it surprise you teams do feel a little less pressure being on the road in this
series? Atlanta has their tradition, you all take three here, they go out there and don't
seem to feel any pressure and play better?
 
 BRUCE BOCHY: I don't think there's any less pressure. I think we're a good road team.
We've done a good job on the road, but as far as pressure, no. I mean it's nice to play at
home, and have the tremendous support we've gotten this year, but as far as the pressure,
I think it's the same whether you're on the road or at home. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT