NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: PADRES v BRAVES
October 12, 1998
Bruce Bochy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Would the word "devastating" accurately describe this?
 
 BRUCE BOCHY: I think that's pretty harsh of a word. It's a tough loss, no question
about it. When you have a two-run lead and they come back on us -- but we battled back. I
think that says a lot about the club. And we're still up 3-2. We'll go to Atlanta, and
we'll put this game behind us and be set to go. 
 
Q. What's your pitching plans now for Game 6?
 
 BRUCE BOCHY: Well, we said today if we had a two-run lead, with Brownie with three days
rest, we could use him in the pen. And something like this -- if something like this
happened, then we could move him back a day. And right now, that's what I think we'll do.
And we'll pitch Hitch the first game. 
 
Q. Do you feel that the Brown decision backfired, and what do you feel about it?
 
 BRUCE BOCHY: Well, I feel like I had my best guy out there with a chance to win the
ballgame, who was rested, and I'll take my chances there. Sure, it didn't work out, and I
take responsibility for that. But with Kevin out there, I have all the confidence in the
world. It didn't work out. They got a couple of breaks. The groundball to Lopez, it just
got through. And he had a full count there, but it happens. And, sure, it's a calculated
risk, but I thought it was well worth taking. 
 
Q. That seemed to get everybody fired up. You got the crowd fired up on that.
 
 BRUCE BOCHY: Came in and did a good job. He came in and stopped him in the 7th, and he
fought back hard on them, and you give him credit there. 
 
Q. How did you feel when you saw Maddux coming in in that situation?
 
 BRUCE BOCHY: Well, I guess it's a similar situation. They had their best out there,
trying to save the game, and it didn't surprise me. These games are big, and we saw him
down there warming up. So I thought he might be in there. 
 
Q. Bruce, what went into the thinking on pitching to Tucker or not pitching to him in
the 6th with Smoltz?
 
 BRUCE BOCHY: I had Ashby out there, who is a veteran, and motioned to Carlos: Take a
shot at a pitch there, and he gave him too good a pitch. And looking back, sure, I wish I
would have walked him if I had known he was going to throw that kind of pitch. 
 
Q. Bruce, was there any discussion of bringing Myers in to pitch to a left-hander at
that point?
 
 BRUCE BOCHY: No, he had thrown 35 pitches. Again, he had three days rest, and we felt
like he was the guy we wanted out there, and he made some good pitches there. He just ran
a deep count, and I just had all the confidence in the world in Brownie there. And, hey,
you tip your hat, and they came back on us. 
 
Q. When you look at it, Bruce, you have to win one game, and Kevin Brown is your
pitcher who gives you the best shot of winning it. He has a better shot of winning in the
6th inning than he does 0-0. It's easier for him to get five outs with a two-run lead than
27 outs with a tie; is that a way to look at it?
 
 BRUCE BOCHY: That's the way I'm looking at it. We have our best guy out there with a
two-run lead, and we've got a chance to win that ballgame. And we went for it, and it
didn't happen. And the thing we've got to do is put this behind us. And the series is
still at 3-2. We have to get ready to go to Atlanta. 
 
Q. Is Vaughn ready to play now?
 
 BRUCE BOCHY: Yeah, I look for him to play in Atlanta. I think he's all set to go. 
 
Q. Can the guys get past this?
 
 BRUCE BOCHY: Sure, I think they can. I think they've shown a lot tonight after what
happened. They battled back. And we had Tony Gwynn up there at the plate on the winning
run. We got the game -- we let the game get out of hand. We came back and walked the
pitcher with a double and the ball gets thrown away. It's hard to overcome three runs, but
if it stayed a one-run game, we had a chance.  
 
Q. Bruce, can you talk about your Game 6 starter?
 
 BRUCE BOCHY: I'm sure Brown is going to want to go. Today he would have thrown a long
pen, anyway, that's his work load. I'll sit down and talk to him. It could be Brownie or
it could be Hitch. 
 
Q. When do you think you'll make that decision?
 
 BRUCE BOCHY: We'll make it tomorrow. We'll sit down and talk on the flight and discuss
it, Dave Stewart and myself and Brownie, and we'll go from there. 
 
Q. When did you talk about using Brown tonight?
 
 BRUCE BOCHY: Well, actually we talked about it yesterday and today before the game. And
we said that depending on the score and what the situation was -- we had him down in the
bullpen yesterday -- and today we have him down there. When Vander Wal hit the home run,
had Langston going in to face a lefty, when he got the infield hit, Brownie was ready and
we brought him in. 
 
Q. In making it, were you thinking that he would be able to go in Game 6, regardless of
the outcome or were you thinking let's roll the dice here and get it done now?
 
 BRUCE BOCHY: No, because today he would have thrown a long pen, anyway. If you would
see one of his pens, it's about like the outing he had today. He throws a lot of pitches.
He throws two days in a row, and if he feels good, he'll go Game 6. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT