NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: PADRES v BRAVES
October 12, 1998
Bruce Bochy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Any Greg Vaughn update?
 
 BRUCE BOCHY: Greg Vaughn's real close to being playable. He's listed at 80, 85 percent,
in that area. Talking to our trainers, and team doctors, they felt like there was a risk
if he went in the outfield tonight and that's why he's not in there. It was tough not to
put him in, because he's ready to go, and they feel he's okay to go. But they feel he
could use another couple of days. 
 
Q. Bruce, when you got Kevin Brown, did you immediately kind of consider yourself the
team to beat in the West? Did you see him having this kind of impact?
 
 BRUCE BOCHY: Well, I knew he would make a big difference in our club. I said this
before: I didn't know he would make this big an impact. And we felt like when we acquired
Kevin Brown, right away we felt like we were contenders again. And looking at our
division, there's some good clubs there. So we didn't feel like we would be the favorites.
The Giants won the year before. The Rockies made a lot of moves, and, of course, the
Dodgers. But we felt like we were contenders, no question about it. 
 
Q. Bruce, how would you describe the mood of the team going into this game?
 
 BRUCE BOCHY: Oh, great. They're having fun with this. And sure, we lost yesterday, but
we're playing a good club. But the guys are very upbeat, and they're enjoying this time
right now. And this is what you look forward to playing at this time of year and guys are
handling it very well. 
 
Q. Is there a sense among the players of let's win it here so we don't have to go back
to Atlanta?
 
 BRUCE BOCHY: I don't think so. Sure, we'd like to win one more game, and it would be
nice to win here. But we had to play a couple of games in Atlanta to start this, and we
won there. For us to put ourselves in that kind of situation where we're putting a lot of
pressure on us, no, I don't think the club feels like that. 
 
Q. Maybe you can describe briefly what Kevin Brown has meant to this team this year.
 
 BRUCE BOCHY: Well, I think anytime you get a front-line starter like Kevin Brown, who I
consider one of the best pitchers in the game, it's made a huge impact. I think other
pitchers feed off him. He's made them better pitchers. He's made us a better ballclub with
the way he approaches the game and how he plays it. And you can tell from the start when
he came over here that guys feed off the fire and intensity that he brings to every game
he pitches. 
 
Q. Bruce, has Ashby benefitted because he didn't have the pressure of being the No. 1
guy?
 
 BRUCE BOCHY: He might have. I think more than that, I think what Kevin Brown has done,
being a No. 1 guy, how he approaches the game,. I think Dave Stewart has helped Andy
Ashby, and I think it probably did take a little pressure off of him. But I think more so
just watching someone like Kevin work, and Dave Stewart being in his head. 
 
Q. Any line-up changes?
 
 BRUCE BOCHY: John Vander Wal is in left field again. 
 
Q. We saw you and Greg Vaughn and the trainer out there after his workout. How intense
was the lobbying today?
 
 BRUCE BOCHY: It's pretty intense. He wants to play. He feels like he's close enough to
play, and after going through some drills there and talking to the trainers and talking to
our team physician, they felt like there was a risk if he went in the outfield and played.
And for me, I don't think it's time to take that risk. And it just felt like another
couple of days, and he'll be real close to a hundred percent. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT