NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: PADRES v BRAVES
October 10, 1998
Bruce Bochy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How is the field, Bruce?

BRUCE BOCHY: It's a little rough out there, and that's to be expected, after a football
game. I think the ground crew has done a good job, but they can only do so much. And it's
a tough situation, with the stadium being so busy, but I think the field is going to play
fine. It is a little rough, though.

Q. Is there a part of the field where it's really bad or is it certain -- what parts
are not so good?

BRUCE BOCHY: Well, certain parts in the outfield, it's a little chewed up. Infield,
too. But, again, ground crew has done a good job. I don't know if there's one particular
area that we're concerned about. Just overall there's some places there where it's been
beat up pretty good.

Q. Right field?

BRUCE BOCHY: Right field, yeah, it's a little bumpy.

Q. How about the mound?

BRUCE BOCHY: The mound is fine. They take the mound out, and rebuild it, so it's fine.
And the infield, they redid the infield this morning. And it's not an ideal shape, but
it's in good shape.

Q. Greg Vaughn, can you talk about him? 

BRUCE BOCHY: Greg actually feels much better. He's made a lot of progress, the last
couple of days he's responding to treatments. He took batting practice today. He's
available to pinch-hit, and even told me he thinks he has a chance of playing tomorrow
with the progress he's made.

Q. You had several thousand empty seats in Atlanta and somewhat a subdued stadium. You
are up 2-0, and have the momentum on the field, the fans, are they going to make a
difference for your club?

BRUCE BOCHY: It was great to be home. It's great to have the crowd behind us, and
they've done a tremendous job all year of supporting us, and the playoffs against Houston,
they really did a nice job of rallying behind us. In Atlanta we still felt it was a
playoff-type atmosphere. Sure, I heard there were some seats available, but we could hear
their fans. But at the same time, it is good to be home and have them behind you.

Q. Any changes in the line-up today, and why you might have done them?

BRUCE BOCHY: The one change -- I mean, Leyritz is catching. He normally catches
Hitchcock, but the one change is in left field. John Vander Wal is going to be out there.
He's had some success against Greg Maddux. One reason we got him was to play him. I think
with Ruben available, if it's late in the game and a tight ballgame, sure, Ruben will go
out there. He's our best outfielder, but right now we're going to go with Vander Wal. 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT