MLB WORLD SERIES: GIANTS v ROYALS
October 23, 2014
Bruce Bochy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Have you seen teams come in here and struggle with your outfield that aren't familiar with it?   Is it a tough adjustment for the opposition? 
BRUCE BOCHY:   Not as much as you think.   I mean, it's a little quirky out there, but, no, I haven't seen a lot of teams come in here and struggle as much as you would think.   It's not Candlestick.   It's a little calmer than that. 
So sometimes I think too much can be made of our park and the outfield.   We had one day where the wind was wreaking havoc in that St. Louis series, but, no, I can't say I've seen a lot of mistakes out there.

Q.   With the uncertainty of Lincecum and with Strickland's struggles, how important is it for Hudson to go deep tomorrow to kind of give your bullpen a little bit of a break? 
BRUCE BOCHY:   Well, it's always nice if your starter can get you deep, but we still believe in some guys that can help us out.   Timmy feels pretty good today.   He's getting an MRI as we speak.   But with our pen, I know they've had a couple of hiccups.   That's a tough game for them last night, but these guys are the reason we're here.   You're still going to need them, because you can't push your starter past what you think or where you think he should be at. 
So we're going to have to hopefully get some help there.   But ideally, your starter does get you deep and helps you out there.   But at the same time, I don't want to put any added pressure on him.   We think we're going to be fine.   It didn't go well last night, but that hasn't happened very often.   So we try to stay positive here, and I want those guys that were in there to stay positive, too,   Machi and Strickland, because they may be needed.

Q.   Two of the guys that have been doing well not only this postseason but throughout the season, your two lefties.   Can you talk about the significance for you for Lopez and Affeldt in your bullpen? 
BRUCE BOCHY:   Two veteran left‑handers that have been with us for a while through the last two postseasons, and were a big reason why we won then and why we're here now.   Lopez is usually facing a lefty where Affeldt, he can give us an inning‑plus.   I could leave him in there to face right‑handers. 
But it's a nice luxury to have two veteran guys that we have a lot of confidence in.

Q.   You said Lincecum's getting checked now.   Is his availability dependent on the results of that?   Are you more encouraged, less encouraged? 
BRUCE BOCHY:   I'm more encouraged because he feels well, but still we have to cover ourselves and get this MRI.   So I can probably answer the question better once we get the result.   If something's going on, then it's obvious we'll have to make the change.   But my hope is he's fine, and if he is, then I think he'll be good to go tomorrow.

Q.   You've limited their running game, but can the threat of a stolen base be just as disruptive as actually stealing a base?   And has that happened at all to your pitchers in the series? 
BRUCE BOCHY:   Well, I think you look at the two games and you look at how the games have gone, Bumgarner kept a lot of guys off, so there's not going to be a lot of running.   And Peavy did a good job holding runners.   But it can be a distraction if you let it, and that's what we talk about.   We know they have speed, and they're a team that does run a lot. 
But you can't get distracted and lose your focus on the hitter.   I think our pitchers do a pretty good job of that, holding runners, but at the same time keeping their focus on the pitch that needs to be made.

Q.   Have the plans with Strickland changed at all?   What situations might we see? 
BRUCE BOCHY:   I don't know.   You know, it's been‑‑ he's had ups and downs.   Two days ago the question was, am I going to use him in 6th or 7th?   Now he has a rough outing and that changes.   That's how the game goes.   But this is a tough kid.   I was proud of how he owned his actions after the game.   He stood up and he said, "Hey, I made a mistake.   I let my emotions lead me there." 
But still, he's part of this club, and he's part of this bullpen.   So we have to have all of these guys ready and we may need them.   I don't know how the game's going to go.

Q.   With your team having the home games here for 3, 4, and 5, how important is this Game 3?   Because the team that wins will take the lead in the series. 
BRUCE BOCHY:   Yeah, I'm trying to think how long it's been going now how important this next game is (laughter).   I think I've heard this since late August. 
That never changes here.   Game 1 was important.   We thought yesterday was and this one is, too.   It's good to be home, but we're not going to change how we play the game and I'm sure they're not either.   Every game is important when you're in a series.

Q.   What did you see out of Tim yesterday in the six batters he faced before he went out that made you maybe put him into more of a situation that is critical rather than wait for a five‑run deficit where you finally got him in? 
BRUCE BOCHY:   Well, I think with the long layoff it showed that he continued to work in the bullpen.   He had a great session three days ago, so he showed good command.   He looked comfortable out there.   So I didn't like the score, but I was glad I was able to get him out there and get him some work.   I know he has to feel good about that outing.   I know we do, so he could play a bigger role now if he's healthy.

Q.   Hudson doesn't show a lot of excitement.   He's kind of a laid‑back guy.   Have you been able to detect how excited he is to be on this stage? 
BRUCE BOCHY:   Oh, when we won the pennant, yeah, you could see it.   I mean, he let it go.   He was so excited, and the guys were for him.   It's great to win, and you feel good for the fans and your friends, family, but for your teammates who haven't been there, and that was talked about for the guys who have not been to the World Series. 
So part of the celebration was to bring him up and acknowledge that, and he was very, very excited.

Q.   A lot of teams, maybe most teams, like to head home immediately after road games in the postseason.   What is it that made you decide to always wait until the next day? 
BRUCE BOCHY:   Well, it's what we've been doing for a while.   It wasn't just yesterday, but we did it in the Cardinals series.   And we do it during the season.   We did it in 2012.   We had made that decision that we feel it's better for them, just, hey, try to get a normal sleep.   Keep them in their normal routine.   We knew we'd get here in plenty of time to have a workout.   It wasn't where we changed anything.   We just kept doing it.

Q.   When you made that decision, what triggered it? 
BRUCE BOCHY:   Well, we actually did talk to a specialist there, and he gave us advice.   So we followed that back in 2012.   So that's why we do it.

Q.   Last night you guys saw a little more of what makes them good and the bullpen and the pressure they put on the bases.   Did you learn anything new about them from last night's game? 
BRUCE BOCHY:   No, I can't say I did.   I mean, I know how good they are.   I said this.   We have the greatest respect for them, but I can't say I learned something new.   It's a tight ballgame until the sixth, and we let the game get away.   But they have great pitching, and they've got the timely hits.   They're a team that comes at you hard just like us.   I think we're similar in that respect.

Q.   Almost this entire postseason you guys have been really clutch with runners in scoring position offensively.   Last night 1‑for‑8.   Was it just one of those nights, kind of?   Just they were amazing pitching‑wise?   How do you look at last night offensively? 
BRUCE BOCHY:   I think you have to credit the pitching.   I mean, their pitchers did a great job of making pitches when they had to.   We saw a guy throwing 100 and then another guy throwing 100 and you have your work cut out.   I think you always have to look at the pitching you're facing, but you can have an off‑night, too, where you're not getting that key hit or you may hit a ball hard at somebody.   I'm sure Belt wished he wouldn't have tried to go to third.   That helped their cause a little bit.   Just an off‑night against good pitching.

Q.   You were talking about the changes and some things with Strickland because probably he was tipping his pitches.   In the case of Machi, he was so effective in the beginning of the year, not so effective recently.   Are there things you're working with him to make him more effective? 
BRUCE BOCHY:   Yeah, Dave Righetti works with these guys and Mark Gardner.   But you're right, I mean, Machi, what a great year he had for us.   He was our bridge, our go‑to guy.   I know the postseason has not gone well for him.   You're hoping that the layoff, getting a break, throwing some bullpens.   He faced one hitter.   He got behind and he made a mistake there, but that's not a large sample there.   You can't forget what he did, but at the same time you have to go with your hot hands. 
So Dave Righetti and myself, we'll talk about how we'll try to bridge this thing up to the guys that we normally use.

Q.   You talked about the hundred‑mile heat from the Kansas City bullpen.   How would you compare the two bullpens?   And what are the challenges for you using your pen? 
BRUCE BOCHY:   Well, they're pretty set in how they run their bullpen.   They get in that 7th inning or even the 6th, they may bring their guy in to give him an inning‑plus.   I've been in a situation where I had my 6, 7, 8th and 9th guy.   Where I think we're a bullpen that we'll try to get our match‑ups.   We'll use guys in a little different role.   I may bring one guy in a little bit earlier than I would normally whether it's a Jeremy, even Lopez, and they know that and it's worked for us. 
But we're not quite as set as they are as far as how we go 7th, 8th, and 9th.

Q.   You know Tim's history, of course, and this being the first time he's made it to the World Series.   What your thoughts on using him as your Game 3 starter?   How long do you expect him to be able to pitch for you? 
BRUCE BOCHY:   Well, first of all, I'm really excited for him that he gets to pitch at this stage.   He's had an incredible career, and for him to finally get to the World Series, I couldn't be happier for him.   These guys feel the same.   When he hits the mound, I'll feel like that, too.   It's going to be a special moment.   I know he's excited about it. 
As far as what we're looking for, what we normally look for from our starters, just give us a chance to win and try to give us a quality start.   That's not going to change.   But just very excited of the fact that he gets to pitch tomorrow.

Q.   Just logistically, is the MRI done off site or here?   Do you have that equipment? 
BRUCE BOCHY:   It's off site.

Q.   And then will you find out do you think before you leave here today what the results are or is that something that's later? 
BRUCE BOCHY:   Oh, usually it takes a little while.   He's probably just getting there as we speak.   Then we'll have our doctors look at it.   So I'm not sure if I'll have it for you guys before I leave, but we'll have it tonight. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT