NL DIVISION SERIES: GIANTS v NATIONALS
October 6, 2014
Bruce Bochy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Can you just talk about the ride home and when you guys got back, when you got to sleep and what you think the physical toll of Saturday's game has taken on the team?  
    BRUCE BOCHY:   Yeah, quiet ride.   Most of the guys were trying to get some sleep there.   We got in about 5:30, so wasn't too bad.   
    As far as the toll it took on them, you know, at this stage of the game, playoffs, you're running on adrenaline, so they are fine.   We did cancel the workout.   Just wanted to give them a complete day off.   
    Bum game out and he played some catch.   They are all fine.   I checked with them.   Buster caught all 18, sure had some concern there, but he's good.   He's good to go.   
   
 Q.   YP said just a minute ago that how many innings does he have in him today, and he answered back, "I have three innings."   What plans do you have for him the rest of the series?   Is he available today or tomorrow?   
    BRUCE BOCHY:   You know what, if needed, I think he could give us an inning or two today.   You know, plan is to keep him in the bullpen to help out there.   He's not our long guy today, but, you know, the six innings he threw, they were fairly efficient.   
    So, again, you know, with the playoffs, things are done a little different.   These guys tell me they are good to go, I'll use them.   
   
 Q.   18‑inning games notwithstanding, the use of the bullpen, having a deeper bullpen than ever, does that become more and more important and significant?   
    BRUCE BOCHY:   I think so.   You don't know what kind of game you can get into.   It could be, you know, a game where you're going with a lot of matchups in the 6th, 7th, 8th inning, where you're using a lot of your bullpen.   
    We were fortunate in that game that Huddy, which sometimes you forget about his effort, he pitched so deep in the game.   
    They have a couple starters down in the bullpen that made life a lot easier for me, allowed me to do some things, including using Casilla early.   They had the heart of their order coming up, and I had Petit I knew for probably 80 to 100 pitches, and Timmy was fresh to go.   
    I think that question is critical that you have those innings down there in these series.   
   
 Q.   You look at today's starting lineup, you have seven of nine of your starters are product of the farm system.   I know you are trying to go game‑to‑game, but how much organizational pride do you have, that when you look at your roster, they are mostly organizational guys?   
    BRUCE BOCHY:   I think as a club, as a manager, I think Brian Sabean, Dick Tidrow, John Barr, everybody should have a lot of pride when you look out on the field and they use a lot of homegrown products that are playing out there.   
    That's what it takes, I think, to have consistent success.   You look at what we've had to deal with, the injuries, Pagan and Morse, you're probably going to have to call on some kids down there, and it's going to take them doing what you are hoping or maybe get a surprise or two to get you to where you want to go.  
    I know I'm very proud of the fact that you can look out there and a lot of these guys came up through our system.   
   
 Q.   What is the role for Lincecum?   He was up a couple times in that game Saturday, and it seemed like with that long of a game, he might have gone in.   When would you use him?   
    BRUCE BOCHY:   Yeah, Timmy, he's a swing guy for us.   I could use him short to get out of an inning, a couple innings.   But in that game, he was our long guy.   He was coming in the next inning we don't score.   I was going to have to hit for Petit, so now the game is Timmy's and we're going to keep him out there as long as we can.   But Vogelsong went down to back him up if the thing ended up going another eight, nine innings.   
    He's a great swing guy to have from starter to short middle to long guy.   
   
 Q.   What kind of pregame speech will you make?  
    BRUCE BOCHY:   No, I don't have any pregame speech.   Go out there and play.   These guys, as we said many times, the experience they have, who they are, they will be out there ready to play.   I don't think they need somebody to tell them to.   
   
 Q.   Madison has been so efficient, especially in the game in Pittsburgh, but what are your plans for starters if the series goes four or five games?  
    BRUCE BOCHY:   Right now, got Vogelsong, Peavy, that's kind of been the rotation that's been set up.   
   
 Q.   Speaking about managing, during the season, you did have a lot of obstacles with injuries, but in the post‑season, you always seemed to manage really well.   Does it become easier at this point or is it still just as challenging during the regular season?   
    BRUCE BOCHY:   I don't think it becomes easier.   I am fortunate that I have a group of guys here that as I've just said, they had the experience and that great mentality you want in these type of games.   Have a lot of versatility, two pitchers‑‑ we talked just about Petit and Timmy to help us in the bullpen, Ishikawa who we ended up putting in left field.   And these things make it easier.   
    But it's always those players on how they perform.   And it's a gutty group.   I don't know what's going to happen, but I will say that they will leave it all out on the field for you.   
   
 Q.   Going back to the ninth inning the other night, was there any thought at all of pinch running for Posey?   
    BRUCE BOCHY:   From you, as we know, but from me‑‑ (laughter) no.   You know, it would be like if it's a tie game, two outs, Buster singles, I'm not going to take him out of the game.   He's one of the best players in the game.   
    So, no, there wasn't even a thought on that.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT