NBA FINALS: WARRIORS VS. RAPTORS
June 7, 2019
Steve Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How is Kevon's progress coming along?  
STEVE KERR: Kevon's going to give it a go tonight.  So further evaluation, a second opinion, and then a lot of research and making sure that there's no long-term risk involved with him playing.  And it all checked out, and he's dying to play, and so we'll give him a shot and we'll see what he's got.   
 Q.  Given the injury, how did he get to this point?  
STEVE KERR: The guy's just tough.  He's tough and he wants to play.  And the injury is in an area where it allows him to move well enough to give it a shot to play.   
 Q.  Do you know if Kevon will need to take some kind of pain killing shot or if that's something on the table either way?  
STEVE KERR: I don't believe so.  I'm not very good at these medical updates in case you couldn't tell.  So I think I'm going to change course here and I'll answer what I can.  But I'm -- again, I'm not good at it.  So I'll tell you what I can, and if I can't tell you anything good, I'm just going to say let's move on.   
 Q.  Just regarding Kevin, though, did he do any scrimmaging today?  Is he planning to do any scrimmaging tomorrow or Sunday?  What's the latest on Kevin?  
STEVE KERR: He's not playing tonight.  We're hoping he can play Game 5 or 6.  And everything in between I've decided I'm not sharing because it's just gone haywire.  There's so much going on, and so it doesn't make sense to continue to talk about it.  He's either going to play or he's not.  So tonight he's not playing.   
 Q.  Will Klay's minutes be just determined on how the game goes and how he's feeling?  
STEVE KERR: Yes.  I'm getting better, Raymond.   
 Q.  Second to last game at Oracle for certain.  I know you've been asked this question before, but as you get down to the last two games, is it kind of -- are you kind of thinking about knowing that this will be the final two games here, or what's your mindset about that?  
STEVE KERR: The mindset is let's make sure there's two more games here.   
 Q.  What's your strategy to combat their size and length that seemed to really impact the game a couple nights ago?  
STEVE KERR: Play harder.  Play better defense.  Our defense stunk the other night.  We got to play better tonight.   
 Q.  I just heard from Al Attles' son that he plans to attend tonight what.  What does that mean to you, and just everybody here, to have him back?  
STEVE KERR: Well, we love Al.  He's the face of the franchise.  He's been so for 60 years, I think.  So he's an incredible presence, and we're thrilled to have him back in the building.  It's been awhile since he's been at Oracle.  So we're excited to have him here.   
 Q.  In these days of injuries and load management and group decisions, are you comfortable with Looney's ability to play or not really coming down to his pain threshold and that being sort of how fans will look at this?  
STEVE KERR: I'm comfortable with the fact that the training staff is comfortable with him giving it a shot.   
 Q.  Just wanted to know if you can clarify that the 3:30 court closure, is that for KD or Kevon to get any work in?  
STEVE KERR: No.   
 Q.  You mentioned the bad defense you guys played in Game 3.  But when you're -- how often do you see a team like this in terms of having five shooters on the floor at almost all times, and what does that do with the way they can stretch your defense?  
STEVE KERR: We actually see it a lot.  In the modern NBA, you see plenty of teams who put five shooters on the floor.  So it's nothing foreign.   
Bottom line is we're playing a hell of a team.  They're doing a great job, and they're up 2-1, and we need to bounce back and play better defense and play harder.  And I thought we played really hard the other night, but our defense had a lot of holes in it, so we have got to combine the effort with the execution tonight at the defensive end, and that's the plan.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT