NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 2, 2016
Steve Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Are we close enough to tipoff that you can share the starting lineup with us?  
COACH KERR: We are not close enough to tipoff to share starting lineups or any other strategy.   
 Q.  I was afraid that might be the case, so I have a second question.  Both you and Coach Lue played for Coach Jackson and won titles with him.  How much of his impact do you see in what you're doing now?  
COACH KERR: A huge impact.  I've learned a lot from so many of the coaches that I've played for, whether it's Phil or Pop, Lenny Wilkens, Lute Olson, Cotton Fitzsimmons, I could go down the list.  I've been blessed to play for some of the great coaches in the history of the game, and I'm sure Ty would tell you the same thing.  You learn from your mentors, from your coaches, and then you have to sort of take that and put it into your own personality, your own style and go from there.   
 Q.  Steve, LeBron has been on teams that have won at least one road game in 25 consecutive Playoff series.  Obviously, you're trying to prevent that, but that's one series longer than Michael's streak of 24, which I think you were a part of.  What is it about a player to be able to win that often on the road in the Playoffs?  
COACH KERR: Well, we're talking about one of the great players of all time.  So it doesn't surprise me at all.  I didn't know that streak.  I didn't know that Michael had that streak.  But doesn't surprise me.  I'm sure Magic and Larry Bird had similar streaks, and great dominant players like that are going to win, whether it's on the road or at home.   
I remember last year here, Game 2, he came in and really kind of took over the game and had us on our heels.  So, yeah, we know what we're in for.  We know what we're dealing with.   
 Q.  Coming off that last series, obviously, three straight elimination games, did seem like it ended yesterday practically.  Did you have any concern about fatigue or a hangover, and where do you feel their emotional level is right now?  
COACH KERR: I actually think it's perfect, to be honest with you.  We had the day off after Game 7 yesterday.  We had a good practice.  Today we had shootaround.  I don't like to sit around and wait for a week for Playoff games, and we had to do that last year.  So this is better.  Our guys are well rested.  Yes, it was an emotional series, but at this stage, you know, deep in the Playoffs, every game is emotional.   
So we've had a few days since then.  We're ready to go tonight.   
 Q.  Shaun Livingston's dunk in Game 7 is a key reason that you guys are here.  I know a lot of people saw that as a turning point.  From where you were on the sidelines, how did you see that play develop?  And, secondly, did you notice any kind of emotional response from your team after that because of it?  
COACH KERR: Well, I agree.  I thought that was a huge play.  We were in the midst of a nice little run, but it turned -- that play turned it into a bigger run.  Only thing I remember from the play was the seas parted in front of him, and Shaun went right to the rim and finished it and the whole arena went nuts.   
That was right around the time Anderson Varejao came in the game, and Barbosa and -- they both made big plays.  That was a huge stretch for us at the end of that quarter to have a good lead going into the fourth.   
 Q.  How has the demeanor of the Warriors team changed compared this time tonight to this time last year?  Are they less in awe, are they more confident?  Have you noticed any change?  
COACH KERR: Definitely less in awe.  I think the first time you're in The Finals it's sort of a shock to the system to see how different everything is all of a sudden between not being able to practice at your own facility to Steph having his post practice shooting session where he was actually shooting over media members yesterday.  Like we don't have to do that in the regular season.   
So I think last year's experience is definitely helping us this year.  Just, it's a circus.  It's a huge circus, and so much attention, obviously.  But having one under our belts I think makes our guys a lot more comfortable.   
 Q.  Two great three-point-shooting teams in yourself and the Cavaliers.  Three-pointer has been around for a long time.  Why is it taking so long for it to become such a crucial part of the offense, and is this just a phase, or is it something about the way the game's played now?  
COACH KERR: I think there are a lot of ways to go with that question.  I think the game has been trending this way for the last decade.  Teams were starting to shoot more and more threes ten years ago, and I think that has an effect on the younger generation of players coming up.  One of the reasons you don't see a lot of dominant low-post players is because of all the kids are shooting threes growing up.  And I think offenses are reflecting that.  I think the rules changes from ten years ago or so have made it more imperative to spread the floor, and they've also allowed you to put smaller players on the court at one time.   
So the game has changed a lot based on rules and trends.  But I don't see the three-point trend being a trend.  I think it's probably here for a while.   
 Q.  What do you know now that you didn't know a year ago about going into The Finals?  
COACH KERR: Well, I know that our guys have hung a banner already.  I think having been on a couple of teams that were able to win more than one title, more than one title, I think the first one is the hardest because you haven't done it yet, you don't understand the level of commitment and confidence that it takes.   
You probably have a better awareness of the consequences if you lose, you know, will we ever get back there?  So I think our guys having won one already, that's a big boost for us.  We're trying to win another, and we have the confidence from last year that we can do so.   
 Q.  There's just a massive difference in the splits between home and road for your bench players, and I'm wondering did that inform how much you use your bench at home versus on the road at all?  
COACH KERR: Usually it's circumstantial.  I don't know why it's kind of a time-honored NBA tradition, role players play better at home than they do on the road.  That seems to be the case for most teams.  So, you know, you coach each game accordingly.  You see who's going.  You see if a guy's got a hot hand.  You see if a group works.  Maybe you don't give that group as much of a chance on the road as you would at home.  But it's just a feel thing.  There's not a formula going in.   
 Q.  With Draymond being close to a suspension in terms of flagrants and getting close in technicals too, was that a conversation that you had with him and now you leave it alone, or is he someone who kind of needs reminders all the time?  
COACH KERR: No, he knows exactly what the situation is.  We had one conversation about it last week, and he knows exactly what's at stake.   
I thought the last couple games of the OKC series he did a great job of composing himself and treating the referees well.  When he was complaining, he did it more respectfully, and I think he's done a good job of that, and he'll continue to do so.   
 Q.  The last three games against Oklahoma City you were much more defensively sound.  Used elements of zone as well without giving up too much strategy.  What do you guys have to do to kind of keep up the defensive intensity, and could we expect to possibly see a little bit more of that zone to try to slow down LeBron?  
COACH KERR: Every series is so different.  This is a much different series from the last one.  This team that we're facing now is going to shoot a lot more three-pointers.  In OKC we were having to deal with the penetration of Westbrook while also trying to get Durant under control and keep their offensive rebounders off the glass.  It was a big challenge.   
There will be more court to cover in this series, more shooters, and of course you've got LeBron coming downhill at you.  That's the challenge.  Can you stay in front of him and still get out to their shooters, and we'll do our best.   
 Q.  Before Game 7 against OKC you made a lot of changes.  But you had decided the night before?  
COACH KERR: How do you know that, Monty?  You have your sources?   
 Q.  A few people have said that, yes (laughing).  So have you decided on your lineup, and when did you decide, even if you're not going to tell us what it is?  
COACH KERR: I have decided.  I decided approximately 48 hours ago, and I look forward to your reaction when we announce the starting lineups.   
 Q.  I'm just wondering if the mental toughness required to withstand your onslaughts, can that shell-shock an opponent?  
COACH KERR: Our offensive onslaught?  Well, it can.  I don't expect it to shell-shock Cleveland.  They've been here before, obviously, just last year, and LeBron has been here 15 years in a row or something.  So, as a veteran team.  And they're similar to us in terms of that explosiveness getting going with the three-point shot.   
So we'll try our best to get this house as loud as possible.  But I imagine they'll stay very composed.   
 Q.  Can you describe for me what your approach is for Game 1 of The Finals?  
COACH KERR: Well, the approach is the same as any game in terms of just being prepared.  Knowing what our opponent's tendencies are.  Giving our players kind of a roadmap for how we want to approach the series and this game in particular.  And it's also very important to be ready to play, right from the opening tip.   
Last year in The Finals, I thought we were a little tentative the first couple of games, and it showed.  And I think this year I'd be surprised if we weren't a lot more comfortable and aggressive.   
 Q.  You guys rely on Klay Thompson's hot shooting in the series against OKC very much.  Would you expect him to be so good in the upcoming games?  And how important is his offense for the team in The Finals?  
COACH KERR: Well, Klay has probably been our most consistent player throughout the Playoffs.  He's had three tremendous series in a row where he's guarded the opponent's best player on the perimeter and also shot the ball extremely well.   
So Playoffs really are all about having two-way players, and Klay is at the top of the list in that regard.  So we're counting on him, and we believe he'll have another great series.   
 Q.  You've had a six-game series, a seven-game series, a few injuries, et cetera, how would you say you guys are in terms of your fitness and readiness compared to what maybe your peak might be if you're not at it?  
COACH KERR: No, I think we're probably now as prepared and ready as we've been since Game 1 of the Houston series in the first round.  We came into that series fully healthy and that changed quickly with Steph's injury.  But since Steph's return, I think now that he's really had several games under his belt, he's feeling a lot better, and he just looks like he's moving well.  I think we're in a really good position health-wise.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT