NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: THUNDER v WARRIORS
May 28, 2016
Steve Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. It appears you guys may have switched sides?  Is that the case, whatever it was, was that just to change the looks?
STEVE KERR: Yes, it's gonna change everything.  It's gonna change everything (laughing).
No, it's just you make the decision based on do you want your offense or your defense in front of you in the second half.  So we just decided with the noise, we'd rather have our offense.  We're making more calls on offense from the sideline than we are on defense.
Q. [Harrison] Barnes was a team-best or game-best +12 last game.  His individual stats doesn't look great.  From a plus-minus, what did you like about what he did, and how he's played in the series?
STEVE KERR: I think he's been really good in the series.  I think he's been solid.  He's done a nice job on K.D. [Kevin Durant] when he's on him.  We usually hand him off to Andre [Iguodala] halfway through the first quarter, and then it's kind of back and forth.
But I think Harrison's been good.  He made a really key play, making a steal at one end and getting an assist to Andre for a three at the other.  It was a big play in the second half.  But I just think he's been solid.
Q. I know we talked about this before, but you guys have either outrebounded them in one game and were even in another in the two games you won.  How directly is that stat connected to the outcome, and what can you do since rebounding is such a hustle and effort thing, and what can you do to promote that?
STEVE KERR: If I'm not mistaken, it was the same in the Spurs series for them; the team that won the rebounding battle won the game.  So, yeah, it's obviously a big deal against these guys.  They're a big, athletic team, great rebounding team.  So in some form or fashion, we've got to be pretty near them in terms of total possessions.  So that will factor in turnovers and offensive boards.  So we've got to be able to do that.
As for how, it's a matter of will and getting bodies on people, guards boxing out bigs that are running down the lane.  Everybody's got to be in tune in terms of keeping them off the glass.
Q. In Game 5 you didn't go to [Festus] Ezeli until really late, I think, in the fourth quarter.  How much of that was a factor of the hack strategy in Game 4, and how much of that was just [Andrew] Bogut playing well and playing many more minutes?
STEVE KERR: Yeah, it was mostly just Bogut playing well, and we were in a good groove.  We didn't go into the game anticipating that Festus would only play a few minutes, but that's what the game dictated to us as a staff.  I think that will probably change tonight.  I think he'll play more.  But, again, we'll see how the game unfolds.
Q. You did go to [Anderson] Varejao.  When you put him in, are you looking, you said energy?  Is it rebounding?  What specifically are you looking for when you go with Varejao over someone else?
STEVE KERR: Well, he's very smart.  Offensively he provides a good passing big man, triple handoffs.  He has a way of getting us open shots.  So sometimes I'll go to him when our offense isn't clicking.  Then he's also a guy who can draw fouls.  He boxes out extremely well.  He's just a smart player.
So if we need kind of an infusion of some gamesmanship and smart play, that's usually when we go to him.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT