NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: THUNDER v WARRIORS
May 22, 2016
Steve Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. There was a report that Stephen Silas was traveling today to meet with you tomorrow.  Can you confirm that and also in general, how is the search for Luke's replacement going?
STEVE KERR: Yeah, he's coming in.  We'll see him tomorrow.  Normally we would wait, but because he's got other interests, we felt like time was of the essence.
So he'll fly in on the off-day tomorrow, and we'll visit with him.  Other than that, there is not a whole lot to report on in terms of the search.  We've got a few names, we're talking to a few people.  But obviously we are dealing with other issues right now.
Q. Have you talked to Steph at all about not diving into the stands?
STEVE KERR: We did talk about it briefly after the game.  He thought that it was going to be an easy landing spot on that seat, and if he had landed on the seat he thought it would have been an easy dismount.  But it didn't work out that way.  So hopefully he holds back next time.  We like him chasing loose balls, but not to the extent that he might hurt himself.
Q. Durant the other day was talking about it, and somebody asked him if Donovan had to earn his respect and the players' respect, and Durant said it doesn't work that way.  He said, "It's up to us to earn his respect.  He's the coach."  Did you find something similar when you got to Golden State?  And you inherited a good ball team, but did you look at it as those guys, you didn't need to win them over, they needed to win you over?
STEVE KERR: No, I felt I needed to win them over.  They were already a very successful team.  I had never coached before, so I had to earn their respect.  But it does go both ways, for sure.  As you establish a relationship over time and over practices and games, things either work or they don't.
What's similar between my situation here and Billy's at OKC is that we've got talented, high-character rosters to work with, and it just makes it so much easier.  So I think we both had a pretty good head start on most coaches who get their first jobs in this league.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT