NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 14, 2015
Steve Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Are the advantages of having Iguodala defending LeBron James from the start of the game?   
COACH KERR:   Well, he's got the most experience guarding LeBron on our team.   He's pretty much had that job since he's entered the league.   So he's got the experience, but it doesn't matter how many times you've played against him, it's still a huge job and you want to have your best defender on him, and Andre is our best.   
So that's the idea.   Get him on there as soon as we can.  
   
 Q.   Going at this lineup strategy thing maybe from a different way, when you look at Cleveland, how important is it for you to know what their lineup is starting?   How many different permutations do you prepare for?   And does it screw you up a little bit if it's a lineup that you didn't really think was going to happen to start?   
COACH KERR:   Well, we talk about what we think they might do, but it doesn't really change a whole lot of our thinking.   We have to figure out match‑ups and that kind of thing, but it's all part of it.   You adapt to whatever you're faced with.   So if they change anything, we'll adapt, and we'll see how the game goes.  
   
 Q.   Is there anything you're feeling guilty about right now?   
COACH KERR:   Nothing.  
   
 Q.   Nothing?   You have a clear conscience?   
COACH KERR:   Very clear (laughing).   Thanks for asking.  
   
 Q.   Are you intending to go with the same lineup as you started in the last game?   
COACH KERR:   We could.   We could.  
   
 Q.   Is Andrew totally healthy?   Are there any issues at all with him right now?   
COACH KERR:   No, Andrew's fine.   It's just the playoffs are different.   Every match‑up is different.   You have to get a feel for what's necessary, and David doesn't play much against Houston.   David so far has been a better match‑up just to get our pace and our speed and stuff.   
But that's how the playoffs go.   It doesn't mean Bogs isn't going to play.   He's got to stay ready.   And every game is different.   But he's fine.   It's just a matter of finding the right combination and all hands on deck.  
   
 Q.   How well do you think he looked in the first three games in terms of physically?   He seemed a little slower than usual.   
COACH KERR:   Maybe, maybe.   But that frequently has to do with the style or the personnel and that kind of thing.   Look, we wouldn't even be here without him.   We don't beat Memphis, we don't beat Houston.   
And that's the beauty of this sport and our team, I think, in particular.   Every guy has helped us get to this point.   And I don't care who plays.   I don't think any of our staff members, any of our players, even, I think they just want to win.   And whoever makes the most sense to get that job done, that's what we'll do.  
   
 Q.   Do you game plan any differently having the extra day of rest?   Does it affect how you use your bench or what players might play tonight?   
COACH KERR:   No.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT