NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 11, 2015
Steve Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   The past game body language and energy was a big factor, was a big issue for you guys in that loss.   How have you been able to deal with that with your guys in the locker room in the past hours so it won't happen again tonight? 
COACH KERR:   Well, we were good in the fourth quarter the other night.   That's how we have to play.   Obviously, we made shots, but it was more than making shots.   It was the activity level and the energy. 
We need to get to that early.   We need to get to the loose balls, to the long rebounds, and play with a lot of energy and heart and let that carry us.

Q.   This morning you said Andrew would start at center.   Is there any other starting lineup possible change or are you going to start the same way? 
COACH KERR:   No, we're going to start the same way.

Q.   In guarding LeBron, I'm sure you've given him different looks through the first three games, but after watching the film and seeing what he's doing, is there anything else you can try to slow him down? 
COACH KERR:   Yeah, sure, there are some other things we can try.   We may try some, we may not.   The whole thing is a balance between what you're willing to give up, what you want to slow down, what you want to accomplish.   Generally speaking, what we try to do is keep the team‑‑ whatever team we're playing, whether it's Cleveland or anyone else, we like to keep the team to the mid 90s to the low 40s in field goal percentage. 
We've accomplished that.   But we haven't gotten our offense going.   So the question is do we have to compromise what we're doing defensively to get our offense going or is there something else we can do to generate more points without changing what we're doing?   Those are questions that we've been debating as a staff.   That's the trick.   That's what we've got to find.

Q.   Is there any effective way to stop LeBron James from scoring 40 points almost every game? 
COACH KERR:   I guess we could send more people at him, double‑team him, triple‑team him.   That would probably hold him below 40.

Q.   Do you intend to do that? 
COACH KERR:   Hang on, let me look at my game plan.   Maybe, maybe (smiling).

Q.   David Lee gave you a nice spark off the bench in the last game, and understand he had not been playing a great deal for you prior to that.   Do you anticipate using him a lot tonight? 
COACH KERR:   Yes, David will play.   He was really good in the fourth quarter.   He's hung in there this year.   I'm very proud of him.   It's been a tough season for David.   Things haven't gone his way, but he has kept his demeanor.   He's kept his poise.   He's kept working hard and made the most of his opportunity the other night.   Obviously he played well, and we looked good when he was out there, so he'll get another chance tonight.

Q.   You played David almost exclusively at center when he did play his last game.   This might get into strategy here, but can he play‑‑ can you play him with a center?   Is it possible? 
COACH KERR:   With a center? 

Q.   Yeah, can he play power forward? 
COACH KERR:   Sure, yeah.   He's obviously played as a power forward most of his career.   He started the last couple of years with Bogut, so that's a combination that we could go to.

Q.   You mentioned the other night words like life, energy.   Steph said vibrant.   Is that more important, the attitude adjustments, than even schematic things that you might do to free up Steph and get more shots and that type of thing? 
COACH KERR:   Yeah, it is.   There is no scheme for diving for a loose ball.   That's whether we want the ball or not, whether we want the possession or not.   So we've got to do more of that tonight.

Q.   What kind of treatment has Draymond gotten on the back?   Is it just rest?   Is there an injection involved? 
COACH KERR:   I honestly don't know.   I haven't asked Jo on that.   They're taking care of him.   We have our team chiropractor on the trip with us.   So I just ask Johan is he okay to play, and he either says yes or no and I don't get into detail. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT