NBA FINALS: WARRIORS VS. RAPTORS
June 2, 2019
Steve Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  NBA history is littered with stories of superstar teammates who just wound up not getting along and egos took over.  What is it about Steph and Klay and Draymond and KD that have allowed this run to continue for five years and have you guys so connected and hungry still?  
STEVE KERR: I guess every situation is unique and different.  I think what's unique about our team is that these guys all play so dramatically differently in terms of the way they approach the game.  Draymond is such a versatile defender and a guy who pushes the ball in transition.  Klay one of the best on-ball defenders in the game and a great shooter.  Steph, on- and off-ball wizardry.  They all complement each other so well and they basically come up together.  They're pretty close in age.  And get along well. They love playing together.  And yeah, they complement each other and have grown and been through a lot of things together.  So the bonds have only grown stronger.   
 Q.  Your first playoff run in 2015 you guys fell behind in two different series.  As you look back, did that feel substantially different than it does now when you fall behind?  And were your interactions with players and coaches different just because you guys hadn't been through it before at that time?  
STEVE KERR: Yeah, I think so.  When you haven't been through it before as a group, there's an unknown that you have to account for and you have to sort of take a leap of faith with each decision that you make, each move that you make.  You have to trust each other, not having the history behind you to really have earned that trust.  So you're really trying to grow together.   
At this stage, we have talked about this, but we have been through everything together.  I think there's a really strong bond of faith and trust in one another.  So the players trust the staff and vice versa.  The players trust each other.  There's no finger-pointing.  There's just, hey, let's get better and let's watch the tape and let's see where we can make improvements.   
 Q.  Since Durant has been out you've hardly gone or maybe not even gone to Draymond at center with the small-ball lineup.  Is that something you just probably can't do much without Durant in there or is that something you've contemplated to do without Durant?  
STEVE KERR: It's much different without Kevin.  Each guy in that lineup has to take on a different role.  So you think about who would replace Kevin in that lineup and you've got your options and your alternatives.  But we have obviously felt that other lineups make more sense, so that's why we do a different direction.   
 Q.  Obviously the shirt you're wearing -- the politics of you and the team has been no secret.  Is there a little bit more meaning to that with former President Obama here?  
STEVE KERR: Actually, I wasn't aware that he was coming until a little while ago.  The shirt has everything to do with the tragedy in Virginia Beach a couple days ago, and how devastated so many families are and so many people are.  The shirt is a reminder that the only way we can get out of this mess is to actually vote, and to vote for people who are going to be willing to create some change in our gun laws in our country.   
The young generation, the March For Our Lives generation, has really inspired me.  So I offer my support to them and to all young people, and hope that we can create a change where we don't all have to walk around scared we're going to get shot in our country.   
 Q.  How is Andre feeling and what is your expectations for him this evening?  
STEVE KERR: He's been limited in practice the last couple days, but it's been mostly kind of walkthrough stuff anyway.  He's going to start and he'll play.  We have just kind of held him out of most of the drill work just to be cautious, but he's ready to go.   
 Q.  In speaking with DeMarcus Cousins, he said given the speed of the game from Game 1, it was a little hard as he's getting back.  I'm wondering your approach with his minutes as, of course, the pace of play has been a lot quicker than maybe other matchups that you guys have had?  
STEVE KERR: Yeah, it's always tougher for big guys.  The game moves faster for them when they return from an injury.  It takes a little longer to adjust.  But I thought he played well the other night.  Eight minutes -- he generated some points for us, made a couple steals.  He was effective.  We will look at different possibilities, different matchups. You could see him a little bit more tonight.   
 Q.  I know you're a Liverpool soccer fan and Mo Salah fan.  I wonder if you saw the game yesterday?  
STEVE KERR: I saw the second half.  We were practicing during the first half.  So I was pleased with the result.   
 Q.  What was your expert analysis of the game?  
STEVE KERR: Well, I'm not an expert, so I can't offer an expert analysis, but my novice analysis was it was not a particularly well-played game.  But again, the result was the desired one for Liverpool fans.  It reminded me of our Game 1.  We had nine, 10 days off; they had almost three weeks off.  Everybody on both sides looked a little rusty, and our Game 1 felt that way.  When you've been off for a little bit, you lose your edge and you're just not as sharp.  So hopefully tonight we'll be sharper.   
 Q.  In lieu of Barack Obama expected to be at the game tonight, what moments stick with you the most the times you and other members of the team have been able to interact with him over the years?  
STEVE KERR: Well, the White house visit, for sure, after the 2015 championship.  That was quite a thrill to visit there and have the whole team there.  It's a treat to experience that.   
THE MODERATOR: All right.  Thank you.   
STEVE KERR: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT