NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 13, 2015
Steve Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Would you say Tim Duncan is underappreciated?STEVE KERR: Not by the people in the business.  Everybody that I hear on TV, they always say Tim is a top-five player of all time.  But he doesn't have the same sort of reputation, I guess, as Magic or Michael or Larry, because he's so low-key.  The charisma that those guys had and all the endorsements and everything else made them sort of global icons.  Tim prefers to go about his business and play hoop.Q. At the core, at leadership, were there more similarities between him and Michael?STEVE KERR: Well, entirely different kind of leadership.  Michael was brash and outspoken.  And Tim was reserved and quiet.  But each led his team in his own style.  And obviously very effectively.Q. Can you talk Michael out of retirement so you can get to coach him for a game?STEVE KERR: That would be interesting.Q. Did you have a chance to decide your starters yet?STEVE KERR: Not yet.Q. What's the determining factor on that?STEVE KERR: I have to talk to all the guys to see how much they want to play.  I'm assuming Timmy and Dirk aren't going to want to play big minutes.  But my guess is we'll start either Durant or Aldridge.  But maybe we would start Tim Duncan and play him five minutes and he can put ice on his knees and take the rest of the night off.  I don't know.Q. Off-the-beaten-path question:  Do you think basketball can work on a professional level in Vegas?STEVE KERR: I don't know enough about it, really, to be honest with you.  I think there's so many things that go into it, corporate money and sponsorship sales.  I don't know enough about that area to really answer that question with any credibility.Q. As a former GM, would you be concerned about having players --STEVE KERR: No.  I wouldn't be concerned about it.Q. Steve, can you speak about the irony that you were courted by the Knicks and now you're coaching the All-Star Game at Madison Square Garden?STEVE KERR: It doesn't mean anything to me.  We were here three days ago with the Warriors to play the Knicks.  I was asked that question.  It's just a side story that has no significance for me.Q. Your feelings about Madison Square Garden as a player being here?STEVE KERR: I always loved coming in here.  The Mecca.  Great memories of playing against the Knicks in the playoffs when I was with Chicago.  Incredibly loud fans.  Great basketball area.  This is the heartbeat of the game for the professional game, I think.  I love coming to The Garden and playing --Q. (Inaudible)  a little triangle offense?STEVE KERR: I'm pretty sure in an All-Star Game there's not much of any offensive strategy.Q. How do you feel about coaching the All-Star Game with your own players?STEVE KERR: It's going to be fun to coach Steph, to have him -- to be here together is special.  Because it's an honor for all three of us.  But it's really an honor for them, because the way they're playing, they deserve to be here. They're the only reason I'm here.  I've got great players with the Warriors.  And they're having a fantastic season.  And that's how I ended up here.Q. You won five championships.  You've played with Jordan, played with Duncan.  Are you the happiest man on Earth?STEVE KERR: I'm the luckiest man on Earth, for sure.  Yeah, I've had an incredibly fortunate career.  I really wasn't a very good player.  I was a role player.  And I ended up on great teams where I could make a name for myself.  Make a few shots and people recognized it, but to go from one thing to the next, the Bulls to the Spurs to management to coaching, I've been very blessed.Q. You guys have faced Miami twice.  You'll be coaching against Chris Bosh Sunday.  Where do you view his game right now?STEVE KERR: I love Chris Bosh.  One of my favorite players in the league.  I love guys who play both ends.  I love big guys who can stretch the floor, guard, screen-and-roll and switch out on the point guards and stay in front of them.  He does all that.  And that's the most important thing in the game these days, is to have that kind of versatility as a big and be able to protect the rim and still get out to the perimeter and score inside and out.  I think he's one of the very best players in the league.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT