GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS MEDIA CONFERENCE
May 25, 2019
Steve Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So much has changed I imagine.  
STEVE KERR: Yes.  Yes.  Where do we begin?   
 Q.  Do you guys have watch party plans?  
STEVE KERR: Watch party?  No, we had Game of Thrones watch parties the last couple weeks, but we have not had playoff game watch parties.  These guys get enough of us, so they'll be watching the game on their own.   
 Q.  I asked Andrew the same thing; obviously you guys aren't rooting for anyone per se, but would it make things a little easier if the Raptors wrap things up tonight so you can go with a stricter game plan and all the things that come with knowing your opponent?  
STEVE KERR: Not really, because if it goes seven, there's still a few days to prepare, and we're already doing preparations behind the scenes for both teams, and the players don't need more than a couple of days of game planning, film sessions, that kind of stuff.  So it really makes no difference.   
 Q.  What was it like to see Al and how much --  
STEVE KERR: Yeah, it was great to see Al.  I haven't seen him in a while.  I know he's struggled with his health.  One of the first things that I did when I became coach here was I brought Al in to visit with our team along with Tom Meschery, Nate Thurmond came in, as well.  I think we had -- I might be missing somebody.  We had three or four of our past glorious Warrior history, and Al obviously is the guy who's connected all the dots.  So he came in and talked to our team -- it was four or five years ago -- so everybody on our team is fond of Al, and it's great to see his face here in the facility today.   
 Q.  Did he give you any guidance when you became the coach?  
STEVE KERR: Yeah, he gave me advice, and he's seen and done it all in the NBA, both as a player and as a coach, and he was very helpful that first year.  More than anything, it's just fun to connect the past with the present, and we've tried to remind our players constantly of our history here, and our players have done a great job of creating history of their own, but you know, you see the photos on the wall and past teams and -- so we're very proud of our heritage.   
 Q.  Was this planned for him to stop by today?  
STEVE KERR: I'm not sure.  I'm not sure.  I think Raymond set it up.   
 Q.  When was the last time he was at a practice?  
STEVE KERR: Oh, it's been a couple years, I think.   
 Q.  What are your impressions of Jordan's playing?  
STEVE KERR: He's been great.  I saw Jordan the last few weeks of the regular season when he got his opportunities, made the most of them, and I think he's playing at a really high level now, giving us exactly what we need, speed, energy, athleticism, intelligent play offensively, drive and kick, move the ball.  He's been fantastic.   
I'm really happy for him because it was a tough regular season for him, and he's finishing the season well, and I think this bodes well for his future.   
 Q.  I understand there's obviously some uncertainty (indiscernible)?  
STEVE KERR: For the Finals?  He's going to play.  We'll see how it all shakes out.  It depends on match-ups and health and the rest, but even if everybody is healthy, Jordan will find his way on to the court.  He's earned that.  He's played his way into that, and he's helped us win games.  So I'm really confident putting him out there.   
 Q.  What have you been doing to kill the time from the end of the last series to now?  
STEVE KERR: Well, we're keeping our routine of practicing and working in the mornings, and then it's just nice not to be traveling.  So watching the games when they're on, going out to dinner with my wife.  Just kind of relaxing, which is nice.  It's good to -- the Playoffs in a way are -- even though they're stress-filled, you get these breaks in between series where you're not traveling, you're not stepping on to an airplane, and you have multiple nights without a game.  It's almost unheard of after the last seven, eight months.  So you take advantage of it, and you enjoy it, and you get ready for the next one.   
 Q.  When it comes to that time, the anticipation, the wait, I know you've been there before, but does that anticipation still give you butterflies in the stomach?  
STEVE KERR: It's different.  I think the first time four years ago, it was almost like we couldn't believe it.  We're going to The Finals.  And now we -- it's not like we come to expect it, but we're veterans of this experience and this run, and our guys know how to finish games.  They know how to win playoff series, and so there's a sense of confidence going into every round.  There's still a sense of joy and accomplishment getting to The Finals.  It's so hard to do.  And I think this week is a combination of enjoying the moment and preparing for what's next.   
 Q.  Do you feel a certain kinship with Quinn just because he occupies a similar role on this team than you did?  
STEVE KERR: Sure, I've talked about this in the past.  I always relate to the bench players better than I do to the starters, and Quinn especially because, as a shooter, it's very difficult to play that role when you're not getting consistent minutes.   
You play five games in a row of two, three minutes and go 0 for 1 five times, you feel like you're in a huge slump, but that's three minutes of play for Steph Curry, and if Steph is 0 for 5 it doesn't matter, but it's a different role when you're a bench guy.  So there's a real trick to maintaining your confidence level, your conditioning level, your rhythm, your timing through all those times when you're not in the rotation.  It's a very hard job.  But if you can do it, you've got a place in the league for a long time because coaches really value that.   
 Q.  Talk about the break, 20 days between home games.  
STEVE KERR: Is that right?   
 Q.  I don't think that's ever happened in the Playoffs.  
STEVE KERR: Yeah, that's crazy.  I wonder if that's ever happened --   
 Q.  I can't imagine it has.  
STEVE KERR: Yeah.   
 Q.  There's obviously so much focus on getting guys healthy physically.  How important is the emotional break in between to allow guys' brains to clear out what they've already been through this season?  
STEVE KERR: Well, we want to give them a break emotionally, but we also want to keep them on edge, so that's the fine line we're walking.  We had a really good practice today, really sharp, and we needed it.  Yesterday we scrimmaged.  It was a little loose.  It was -- we were trying to blow it out, just have some fun, get our rhythm and our timing, get a lot of shots up in the flow of a five-on-five.  Today was much more precise and our players were dialed in.  We had great work today.   
I'm really pleased with the way practice has gone this week.  Tomorrow they'll have the day off, and then we need a couple more good days Monday and Tuesday before we take off back east.   
 Q.  The national narrative, until KD gets back, seems to be a little bit that no matter which team you play, they're going to have size and length edge on you guys that's going to cause a problem.  You've sort of figured out answers to these things all along.  Are you comfortable with your options and potential solutions?  
STEVE KERR: Well, we'd like to have everybody healthy, that's for sure, but if not, our guys have done a great job of finding ways to win, and we have a very deep team.  We have a lot of guys who have played in the championship round, Bogut, Jordan Bell, Looney.  These guys have all done a really good job --   
 Q.  Kevon seems to be hiding in the cracks with most guys --  
STEVE KERR: Looney is a hell of a basketball player, and to me -- I said this the other day, he's one of our cornerstones now.  Going forward, I expect him to be one of our mainstays over the coming years, and I hope his next contract reflects that.  I'd love to see him get a long-term deal here and get paid what he deserves because he's a hell of a basketball player, and he's earned everything.   
We're going to rely on him in the Finals, and hopefully for many years to come.   
 Q.  Bogut said that he thinks last series against Portland is the best coaching job he's seen from you.  I know the nature of your job is to look forward the next series, the next game, but do you ever get a chance to reflect on your own personal success, not the team's success but your own?  
STEVE KERR: First of all, Bogs is probably just buttering me up to get a little playing time in the Finals.  I appreciate that sentiment, that thought.  I think where we are as a team, it's a real advantage as a coach to have the continuity that we've had over the last five years and the success.  There's a deeper level of trust and confidence among the group, and so when Bogut says that I coached a good series -- or what was he talking about, the Portland series?  I would turn right around and say the players had a great series because of their trust in one another and their trust in the game plan.  And when we put our game plan together, we ask the players what they think, and so it's a collaboration, and it's a real advantage.  I don't know how many teams in the league can say they have a genuine collaboration.  But I felt that in Chicago as a player.  I felt that in San Antonio as a player.  When you have a combination of talent and really good human beings on the roster and a good coaching staff who knows what's going on and you collaborate, it's a pretty powerful force, so that's how I look at it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT