NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: TRAIL BLAZERS VS. WARRIORS
May 20, 2019
Steve Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  We saw Andre Iguodala is questionable.  What's his status right now?  
STEVE KERR: He won't play tonight..   
Everybody Tweet?  (Laughter).   
 Q.  How much is it he physically can't play, and how much of it is a precaution?  
STEVE KERR: He has a sore left calf, so he's not going to play.   
 Q.  You were talking about Alfonzo [McKinnie] yesterday.  What impresses you about how he rebounds?  
STEVE KERR: He's a great athlete and he combines that with really good anticipation.  So he finds a way to locate the ball.  Has a good feel for where it's going and beats his man to the spot.  He generates a lot of extra possessions for us.   
 Q.  Generally when a team is down 3-0 mentally, they are a little fragile.  How important is it for to you get off to an early start today to kind of test their mental composure?  
STEVE KERR: Well, I think you always want to get off to a good start on the road if you can.  We didn't the other night.  Fell back, I think 18 in the first half.   
So we're capable of coming from behind, but we want to get off to a good start tonight and hopefully set a good tone right away.   
 Q.  How much do you think your experience level has kind of played out and helped you guys come out in these games, especially the second half?  
STEVE KERR: I think our experience has been really a big factor in our success.  Not only this playoff run but the last couple.  I feel a much different vibe with our team now than I did five years ago when this was all brand new.   
Back then, it seemed like we had plenty of games where everybody looked scattered and nervous, and we had to figure it out, and seems like these days, we're more composed and more confident because we've been doing it for a long time and we've seen pretty much every situation and had to respond accordingly, so our guys are well prepared for this.   
 Q.  How long do we have to wait for your starting lineup?  
STEVE KERR: Whenever Raymond [Ridder] gives it to you.   
Are you in charge of the starting lineup? I remember why I enacted this policy, because I felt bad about lying one year.   
Tim's [Kawakami] not here, that's true.  Might as well just tell you then (laughter).   
 Q.  You watch Game of Thrones?  
STEVE KERR: Yeah.  You?  Eh [in response to what he thought of the finale].   
 Q.  You did mention Alfonzo McKinnie would get more minutes.  Without revealing your starting lineup, do you think that will be the case tonight?  
STEVE KERR: He has to.  With Andre out, Zo is definitely going to get more minutes.  So will Jonas [Jerebko].  You know, possibly Quinn [Cook], if we decide to go small, depending on how the game's going.  So everybody's got to be ready.  It's just we've got a lot of guys down right now.  So the whole team's been doing really well the last couple weeks, the whole bench, and the theme has to continue tonight.  They have got to be ready to get out there and contribute.   
Thanks, everybody.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT