NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: TRAIL BLAZERS VS. WARRIORS
May 16, 2019
Steve Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Do you have an update on Kevin [Durant]?  He was supposed to be evaluated today.  
STEVE KERR: Yeah, he's going to be evaluated by our team doctors this evening before the game, and we'll have a statement out I think after that.  Obviously he won't play tonight, but we'll give you the update after he's evaluated by the team doctors.   
 Q.  DeMarcus Cousins, where is he at in the process?  
STEVE KERR: DeMarcus is coming along.  He's starting to do some work on the floor, so he's not exactly close to playing in a game, but he's making good strides with his rehab and getting out on the court and starting to do some conditioning things.   
We'll see where that goes.   
 Q.  What is it about your team's style of play that's allowed you to have so much success right off the bat, not miss a beat with Kevin out?  
STEVE KERR: Well, I think we had success before Kevin was here, so there's a lot of experience to lean on, and we've got a lot of talent, obviously, so the players have a more desperate mentality when Kevin is out, and they know they have to perform at a high level in order for our team to do well.   
But to be able to lean on that experience, they know that they can hold down the fort until he's back, but we all know we're a much better team with him, and we're going to need him, so we're trying to do everything we can to keep this thing going until we get him back.   
 Q.  We've seen Dame [Damian Lillard] and CJ [McCollum] raise their game to a whole other level this season.  You've seen them grow with the times.  How do they compare to other backcourts you go up against?  
STEVE KERR: They're one of the best backcourts in the league.  You know, statistically and otherwise.  They're a nightmare to have to cover.  They complement each other well.  They both score inside and out, at the mid-range, so they can beat you a lot of different ways.   
Obviously when you play against them, you've got to have everybody lined up defensively, all five guys have to be in tune and ready to defend because you can't rely on one guy to cover those two.   
 Q.  Kind of related to your earlier question, Steph [Curry] has obviously carried a lot of the scoring load since Kevin went out, but beyond any strategic changes, how do you think Steph approaches games differently with Kevin not there?  He clearly is sort of -- it's his responsibility or if he deferred it all to Kevin when Kevin first arrived?  How do you think it's changed the way Steph approaches the game?  
STEVE KERR: I think Klay [Thompson] and Steph take on a bigger responsibility scoring-wise and they look to go into games more aggressively when Kevin is out.  They know they have to.  We're pretty dependent on their scoring when Kevin is not here.  We've seen it the last couple games, and they've been very impressive.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT