GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS MEDIA CONFERENCE
March 11, 2020
Steve Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








STEVE KERR: The players are no different than any of us.
Q. I know we've talked about this for the last couple of weeks, but how are you coaching through this? How are you dealing with this personally?
STEVE KERR: Well, just trying to do my job, so what we talked about with the players was preparing for the game tomorrow and preparing to go on the road the next day, and if we hear anything otherwise, then obviously that's what we'll do. But we just have to do our best to prepare for our jobs.
Q. On a much less important note to what's going on in the world, given practice today, is Steph on track, if you do play tomorrow, to play?
STEVE KERR: Yeah, Steph is doing well and is scheduled to play tomorrow.
Q. Do you have an update on Juan?
STEVE KERR: Juan is in a walking boot and scheduled to get an MRI and won't play tomorrow or probably won't go on the trip, at least at the beginning. At least out for the next few days, and we'll see where it goes from there. We'll find out from the MRI just how serious it is.
Q. You guys have been dealing with like the acceleration of this rapidly at home. You're about to go on planes and busses and different cities, cold weather cities. How much of a conversation have you had with players? How much are you trying to learn about the precautions that need to be taken?
STEVE KERR: Yeah, I think we're all trying to learn. I'm reading stuff every day. We're trying to share stuff with our team. Our team doctor has spoken with the team. I clipped something this morning that I read that I want to put on the players' chairs, and I'll do that tomorrow. Trying to stay as informed as possible, and the big message, I think, that we all are learning is to avoid huge crowds. We have to try to limit our interaction with big crowds and continually monitor our -- washing our hands and our exposure. So we're trying to do all that in the context of learning and going about our day.
But there's no question that everybody now is -- everybody's lives will be affected by this, no matter what you do, who you are. Your daily life is going to be affected by this. For us, we're just -- that just means we have to figure out what that means for us. Right now it means playing a game without fans tomorrow. We'll see what it means as far as the road.
But there are people out there who are much -- who have much bigger issues at hand. I'm concerned about all of our ushers and vendors and the entire supply chain that goes into putting on a Warriors game or a concert. There's a lot of people whose livelihoods are dependent on that, and I'm thinking about all those people right now and people everywhere who are affected, obviously, health-wise. So it's a much bigger issue than just our concerns about playing basketball or going on the road or anything like that, obviously.
Q. You said you clipped something for the players. Is it just like an informative article?
STEVE KERR: Yeah, just something that caught my eye that I thought was interesting. One of the bits of information in the article was that if you go into a hotel, you should wipe down the remote control. Like that's one of the germiest items on the planet. We should know that. We go on the road, we should be aware of those kinds of things, and we're trying to plan for that as an organization, too, what can we provide for our players and support staff to try to keep everybody as safe and healthy as possible.
Q. Obviously this is hit I home now with it affecting you and the Warriors, but how much were you keeping tabs on it as it was starting in the first place or in China or in Italy, and I guess what's your opinion now as far as it kind of hitting home, and are you surprised you're being kind of as big a part of this as you are?
STEVE KERR: You mean as opposed to a couple weeks ago?
Q. Yeah, it started over there and now it's right here in front of you.
STEVE KERR: Yeah, I mean, it's -- because it's hitting home for us, it's affecting everybody directly now. This is when it -- this is when you realize, okay, this is serious. It's easy to shrug something off when it's across the world and isn't affecting your daily life, even if you know -- even if you read that it could be a threat, you don't feel it.
So now I think we're all feeling it, and everybody has to take it very seriously, and we have to do everything possible to put people's health first and then regardless of what kind of inconvenience there is for ourselves, we have to consider everyone else and live our lives the way that we are being advised by the health experts.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT