NBA PLAYOFFS ROUND ONE: CLIPPERS vs WARRIORS
April 15, 2019
Steve Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Warriors - 131, Clippers - 135   
THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
 Q.  Steve, what turned it in the second half in your mind?  What is your message to the team after a loss like that?  
STEVE KERR: Well, we stopped playing.  We kind of disconnected kind of mid third quarter, lost our defensive edge.  They scored 85 points in the second half.  We had really done a good job defensively in the first half.   
So we kind of messed with the game a little bit.  When you do that, you're in some trouble, especially in the playoffs.   
 Q.  What has the training staff told you about DeMarcus?  
STEVE KERR: There's a pretty significant quad injury.  We'll get an MRI tomorrow.  But he's going to be out for I'll just say a while because I think it's up clear right now how long he'll be out.   
It's significant.   
 Q.  What did you think about the offensive kind of rhythm at the end there?  Did you think things got a little scattered for you guys?  
STEVE KERR: Not only at the end.  I thought for most of the last quarter and a half.  We got a little messed up rotation-wise with the foul trouble.  But that's not the excuse.  You should still be able to execute.   
Once you lose momentum in a game, against a really good team, it's hard to get it back.  So we really lost this game mid third quarter when we stopped playing.   
 Q.  Before the game you said you felt the Clippers had outplayed you in Game 1.  Do you feel that was a bit of a carryover at all?  
STEVE KERR: Tonight?   
 Q.  Yes.  
STEVE KERR: Carryover?   
 Q.  From Game 1.  
STEVE KERR: Yeah, but I don't connect the two games.  It was a different game.  We outplayed them in the first half.  As soon as we got up 31, we shut down.   
 Q.  Lou Williams is a very capable scorer, obviously.  How do you feel about the way your team defended him?  Was that just him getting points?  Are you disappointed in that?  
STEVE KERR: Our defense was great for two and a half quarters, then we stopped defending.  When I say 'we stopped playing', we stopped playing defense, offense, execution-wise.  We were not as engaged as we needed to be.  We got exactly what we deserved.   
Clippers were great.  They executed.  They were hungry.  They stayed connected.  They were together.   
To win in this league, especially in the playoffs, you got to have all five guys competing and playing, staying with the game plan, getting after it.  There's only one agenda in the playoffs, and that's win the game.   
 Q.  I think there were more than 60 combined fouls, almost like a wrestling match.  Was that played on their terms, Patrick Beverley's terms?  
STEVE KERR: He did a good job out there.  In the playoffs, if you just foul every time, they can only call so many of them, honestly.  I'm not talking about Patrick Beverley.  I'm talking about everybody.  You get more aggressive, you get more physical.  It's very difficult to keep control of the game if you're an official.   
But, no, Beverley did his job.  He made an impact on the game.  Obviously Lou Williams got scorching hot at the end.  We shouldn't have allowed them to be in that position more than anything.   
 Q.  Kevin Durant had nine turnovers, eight shots, fouled out.  What did you see from him?  
STEVE KERR: He had a tough night.   
Thanks.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT