NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS vs WARRIORS
June 3, 2018
Steve Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Warriors - 122, Cavaliers - 103
Q. Steve, everybody's going to talk about Steph's wonderful offense, but I would think that you and the staff would look at Draymond's defense as one of the keys of this game?
STEVE KERR: Yeah, the defense in general, not just Draymond, but K.D. and our young guys, Looney and J.B., and JaVale did a good job.  We just played a more intense defensive game tonight than we did in Game 1.
Q. Was this Steph's best game you've ever seen in a Finals, and just what was your reaction to his performance?
STEVE KERR: Yeah, it's hard to think back to all of the games.  But he was tremendous.  You know, nine threes and seemed to hit the big shot every time we needed one.  But, yeah, he was fantastic.
Q. Even though you guys have been in this position so many times, obviously, how hard do you have to hammer in the message the next couple of days about not letting 2-0 be a reason to let the human condition kick in and relax a little?
STEVE KERR: Right, and I think because we've been here several times, I don't think I'll need to say much.  The guys in the locker room, they already know that.  They know how hard it's going to be in Cleveland.
Q. Can you tell us what went into the decision to start JaVale at center?
STEVE KERR: Just to get more scoring at that position.  JaVale is so explosive, and just with the way he runs, it gives us some pace, it gives us some energy.  So I thought he did a great job.
Q. Do you think that -- I mean, was it also part of just getting a better start based on the way he played in Game 1 overall?
STEVE KERR: Yeah, yeah.  The pace that he brings and the energy that he brings is important for us.  He helped us get off to a good start.
Q. You mentioned Durant didn't have a great game.  Durant mentioned he didn't have a great game.  What did you see, what did you emphasize from him in this game and what did you see?
STEVE KERR: Just activity.  I thought defensively he was fantastic tonight.  He was getting after it.  Game 1, I didn't think he played his best defensive game.  Kevin is going to probably have 26 points whether he plays well or not.
That's how talented he is.  So he's always going to score.  It's not about scoring, it's about the defensive intensity, it's about his work on the glass.  I thought he set a really good tone for us with his defense early in the game.
Q. When Steph takes these circus shots that are impossible for anybody else to make, how deflating can that be for an opponent?
STEVE KERR: I don't know.  I've never played or coached against Steph.  We feel a lot of joy when he makes them, so that's not a question for me.
Q. And as far as Klay, he said yesterday that if the game was Saturday he probably wouldn't have even played.  Did you ever think you would get 34 points from him and that kind of force in the paint?
STEVE KERR: Klay?  I didn't know he had 34.  He didn't.  He had 20.
Q. Minutes.
STEVE KERR: Oh, 34 minutes, yeah.  Oh, yeah, he felt much better this morning, and that was a great sign.  Yesterday I thought there was a question about whether he would actually even play.  And overnight he got much better.  He had a good training session with our staff this morning, so he was ready to roll, and he said he felt good out there.
Q. Hoping you'll feel better about this question now than you did pregame.  But it looked like there was an effort to get into LeBron a little earlier in their possessions.  What was the thinking there, and how did that work out?
STEVE KERR: I think I mentioned yesterday that he was very comfortable in Game 1.  I thought we at least made him somewhat uncomfortable at times.  I mean, just, you've got to do your best.  You've got to pressure him.  You've got to know he's going to end up with 30 points and a triple-double and all that stuff because he's that good.  But we just made things a little more difficult for him tonight.
Q. When you look at the stats, was this a pretty complete game for you guys, 57% shooting, 42% from three, you had very limited turnovers and almost 30 assists?
STEVE KERR: Yeah, we played really well tonight.  There were a few things that bothered us in the second half, a few defensive breakdowns we'll take a look at on film.  But overall it was a really good, balanced game, good defense, good, intense defense and excellent offense.
So, yeah, we're happy with the way we played.  But we know this is just getting started.
Q. Couple times today the margin got down to 4 and in that area, but it still felt like you were in control.  Did you feel like the team had control from whistle to whistle tonight?
STEVE KERR: I did, I did.  But Cleveland is always going to make a run, which they did in the second half.  I can't remember what they got it down to, 6 or 7, whatever it was.
But it's The Finals.  I mean, it's supposed to be hard.  You've got to withstand that kind of stuff and keep playing and keep going.  I thought our guys did a good job of that.
Q. Really since maybe the Conference Final Steph has done a lot of those kind of pass and run to the corner threes.  Did you guys see something?  He's always had it, but it's really been unlocked the last five games or so?
STEVE KERR: It's just something that we do, something that he does well.  We -- as you know, we like to move the ball.  So when guys give it up, they do a good job of relocating and trying to find some open space.
Q. So far in The Finals what do you think has been key for Shaun Livingston's efficiency?
STEVE KERR: Shaun's been here now.  This is his fourth Finals, and he just looks comfortable out there.  He's been great.  He's been rock solid at both ends, and he's just, you know, taking what's there for him.  I thought just the scoring that he gave us off the bench and the defensive toughness and rebounding and everything, he's a guy who gets it.  He understands how to play.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT