NBA FINALS: WARRIORS VS. RAPTORS
June 13, 2019
Steve Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. We haven't seen you since knowing that Kevin had surgery.  Have you had a chance to talk to him?  We have also seen a towel that kind of honors Oakland and honors Kevin as well.  And just how are you feeling about all that?
STEVE KERR: Yeah.  I mean, it's still raw, obviously.  This has only been whatever it is, 48 hours, 72 hours, so I've texted, I've talked to some of the guys who have spoken with him.  Everybody's been reaching out to him and fortunately everything went well.  And so tonight we're thinking of him.  I know our fans are all thinking about him.
We got a game to play and got work to do.  But everybody in our organization is thinking about Kevin as we go.  So we go to work and we're trying to achieve something special.  We wish he were here with us.
Q. How is Kevon doing?
STEVE KERR: Kevon just warmed up on the court with Chris DeMarco and he's doing decently.  So I think he'll give it a go and we'll see how he holds up.
Q. Obviously this is going to be such an emotionally charged game for any number of reasons.  With your team, do you like them to lean into that emotion, or do they need to be kind of reeled back because they're already kind of emotional guys?
STEVE KERR: Well, this is unique.  This is sort of a once-in-a-career moment where you play in a building for the very last time, and you absolutely know positively without a doubt that it's the last game you'll ever play here.  We had a ceremony at the end of the year in the regular season, but we knew we were coming back here to play.  And then we had that weird Game 4 a few days ago where we lost and it sure felt anti-climatic, like this can't be the last game at Oracle.  Now it's here and it's definite and it's in the midst of this series that we're trying to win, so there's a lot going on.
I think the main thing is to just lock in on the game, focus on what we have to get done.  And when the game's over, win or lose, I think there will be a chance for us to acknowledge our fans and the people in this building, the people who have worked here in this building for many years who we have gotten to know.  Win or lose, we'll be able to share some emotion and say our goodbyes, and hopefully with one more game to play in Toronto.  But it is a strange, unique night.
Q. How do you plan to use all this emotional charge that there is around this game?  Not just transforming it into to much pressure but into something positive you need to use on the field to win today.
STEVE KERR: I think the benefit of our team having the experience that we do over the last five years, they seem to respond no matter what the circumstances are.  So I'm very confident that they will play and they will settle into the game and they will compete and find a way to get into a rhythm.  There's not a whole lot to say.  Everybody knows what's at stake and what's happening, so it's not like I have to give a big speech or anything.  But it's just let's get our work in, let's do our jobs and see what happens.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you, coach.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT