NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: WARRIORS vs ROCKETS
May 26, 2018
Steve Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Is Andre Iguodala available for this game?
STEVE KERR: No, he will not play.
Q. You saw Pat McCaw, what is his status tonight, and if he is available, what do you have planned for him to play?
STEVE KERR: Well, he hasn't played in a couple months, but he's healthy enough now to suit up, and we'll see what happens.
Q. Did it surprise you that Pat has gotten to this point?  I know you originally listed him as out, and there hasn't been much talk about him?
STEVE KERR: Well, you guys didn't ask.  He's gotten a lot better over the last couple weeks.  He's scrimmaged a couple times.  His back is fine.  Had a little knee soreness, I think, from the inactivity.  He's made it through that.  So, here he is.  And he'll suit up.
Q. What is your confidence in using him at this point?  Is it just to have a body, or are you confident putting him in the game?
STEVE KERR: It would be a tough spot to put him in, in the meat of the game, with not having played for a long time.  But at this point, it's all hands on deck, obviously.  You never know how the game's going to play out.  I had teammates who literally played one play in a playoff game and made a play and helped us win a game.  So you just never know.
Q. On Andre, what progress has he made this week?  What's been the next step for him?
STEVE KERR: Still just day-to-day.  It's a bone bruise, and those are hard to predict.  Until he's able to really run without pain, then he can't play.  Again, it's a day-to-day thing.
Q. After the game you had kind of a smile on your face like you're really looking forward to this.  Is this one of those games that you'll see what your team is made of as far as being a champion?
STEVE KERR: Oh, I know what their make-up is.  They've already shown me that.  Maybe that's why I was smiling after the game.  Because I know what they're going to bring, and I know the situation that they're in and we're in.
We've responded well to these kind of situations in the past, so I'm confident, we're confident.  These series, when you're in a long series, there are ebbs and flows.  Tonight our job is to get the flow back on our side.  I thought they did a great job of that the last two games.  We were in pretty good control after Game 3, where we needed to be, anyway, and they did a great job of winning here and holding serve at home, made some big shots and did some things.  So now they've got the momentum, and it's our turn to chip it back.
Q. After everything that Pat has been through, what was his reaction when you cleared him to play tonight?
STEVE KERR: He doesn't say a whole lot.  He just nodded his head and said, I'll be excited to suit up.
Q. With Chris Paul being ruled out for tonight, how do you see that changing the dynamic overall?
STEVE KERR: Well, I think we know what Houston's going to do.  They played without Chris quite a bit this year, so Gordon will take over some of that playmaking role.  I would expect them to play a couple more people, [Luc] Mbah a Moute will probably get back in, probably more Gerald Green, and then maybe just see how the game's going from there.
More than anything, I feel bad for Chris.  The guy is a phenomenal player and competitor, and pretty much willed his team the last two games.  He's just been haunted by these types of injuries in his career, and it's a shame.  I hate when anybody gets hurt.  I hate when Andre got hurt.  I hate to see Kevin Love last night, Kyrie [Irving], you know, these guys train so hard and they're here and they're competing, and you want everybody to be healthy, but it's just the reality is it usually doesn't work out that way.  So you've just got to keep playing with whoever's there and keep going.
Q. What do you want with the championship mentality for this team tonight?
STEVE KERR: Well, I think experience always helps.  When you've been through things together and adversity, you have a deeper level of confidence.  So our guys have been together a lot, been through a lot, and I think we'll be ready to play.  We've just got to play better.  We've got to get things going a little bit.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT