NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: WARRIORS vs ROCKETS
May 24, 2018
Steve Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








STEVE KERR: Andre will not play tonight, Klay will.
Q. What's the update on Andre as far as moving forward and where he's healing and progressing?
STEVE KERR: Just day-to-day.  Yeah, he's gotten better each day, but he's dying to play.  But he's not healthy enough to play.  So we'll just continue to take it day by day.
Q. Mike D'Antoni said he would stick with the seven-man rotation.
STEVE KERR: He told you exactly what he was going to do?  What else did he say?  Just wondering (laughing).
Q. Is there a possibility of going deeper on the bench tonight?
STEVE KERR: It's a possibility.  Obviously without Andre, it changes our rotation quite a bit.  So we've talked about a lot of different possibilities, and not going to tell you what we're going to do, but it may depend on how the game's going.  But we've tossed around some different ideas, and we'll see where it goes.  How's that for a vague answer?
Q. You've talked before about Andre's value.  But a game this big and significant, how difficult or how much of a challenge is it to play without him?
STEVE KERR: It's a big challenge, but he's not playing.  So we're not going to sit around and contemplate the challenge.  We're going to just try to figure out the right combination and the right substitution patterns and get the right people on the floor.
We've still got lots of guys who can play.  They're pretty good.
Q. You talked yesterday about how your team has been in this position before.  It's really been a couple years since you've been in a position like this.  Is there any concern about that?  Or is it more of a factor that you assume the muscle memory will --
STEVE KERR: Concern that it's been two years?
Q. Concern that you haven't been in a position quite like this.  Or do you just expect the muscle memory of past experiences?
STEVE KERR: I think you just -- when you go through the playoffs like our core group has, at this point you kind of feel like you've seen it all.  Last year was obviously the exception rather than the rule, and very few teams in NBA history can go through the playoffs with one loss.  Maybe the Sixers, Moses Malone Sixers and the Lakers [in] 2002.
Q. That's it.
STEVE KERR: Is that it?
Q. I think so.
STEVE KERR: I don't know about the Celtics in the '60s, I was either not born or too small to know.  But I do know from my own experience in the NBA, this is how the playoffs go.  It's supposed to feel hard.  It's supposed to feel difficult.  Stuff happens.  You get injuries, suspensions, things happen, and you just have to play through everything.
There are no excuses at the end.  If you win, you celebrate, and you don't worry about what happened to the other team; and if you lose, you're bummed out.  But you don't sit there and say, If this had happened or that had happened.  None of that matters.  You just go and compete, and that's what we're going to do tonight.
Q. Asking about the depth of your rotation and how you're going to use it, but how much is determined once the game starts and you just don't know until you see who has legs and how it plays out?
STEVE KERR: Yeah, I think most of it in the playoffs is about seeing how the game is going.  Regular season you tend to have a more concrete rotation, and you don't worry too much about matchups.  You just kind of play, getting through the 82 [games].  In the playoffs you have to feel what's happening that particular night, with matchups, with fatigue, whatever's going on momentum-wise, then you decide what you're going to do from there.  So we'll figure it out.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT