NBA GLOBAL MEDIA CONFERENCE CALL
December 21, 2017
Steve Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You guys are aiming to make your fourth straight Finals, but the team is pretty banged up right now.  What's been the biggest problem you've been facing just trying to win games and trying to be consistent and maintaining good habits?  
STEVE KERR: Well, I think we've done a good job.  We're winning games and dealing with the injuries, and that's what you have to do when you've been to The Finals a few years in a row.  It's just going to be more difficult.  I felt that as a player in Chicago way back in the '90s.  Year three was much more difficult than year one, and that's what we're facing now, just the wear and tear of the journey.   
As long as we can win games while guys are out, we're confident that they're going to actually be healthy and will be ready to go for the playoffs.  This is all sort of expected in many ways, and we're dealing with it the best we can.   
 Q.  Your team has won 10 straight games.  Which team will you be more anxious to play against in the playoffs this year, the Rockets or Cavaliers, and which team in the East do you see as your most likely competitor in The Finals this year?  
STEVE KERR: Well, in the East, obviously Boston and Cleveland are the teams that are getting the most recognition, but Toronto has very quietly had a great season, and I think they've gotten better.  So those are the three favorites in the East.  Obviously, Houston has had an amazing start in the West, and they've got a great team.  San Antonio is always going to be there.  So those are sort of the main teams that I think look like title contenders.  But so much can happen over the course of a year with injuries and how things go, so we're not too worried about The Finals or the playoffs even.  We're just trying to be the best we can be right now and keep getting better.   
 Q.  I would like to ask about your back, your health condition, if you are fine now and if you still have some pain, and also if having this kind of injury did change a little bit your perception of the big picture.  You didn't take for granted the success you had and just focus on the results, but also on the big picture of everyday life, everyday little step by step?  
STEVE KERR: Well, thank you for asking.  I'm doing better, and yes, I think any time you go through a major health crisis, it gives you a different perspective.  So really the only thing that matters is your health and waking up and feeling good, and that's the main focus.  I'm still dealing with pain but getting better.  I love coaching, and coaching helps me to deal with everything.  Thank you for the question.  I appreciate it.   
 Q.  There are a lot of Golden State Warriors fans here in Tanzania, so we've been following.  Kevin Durant has been so effective on the defensive end.  What has evolved in him in his time with the Warriors, and what do you expect from the matchup on Christmas against the Cavaliers?  And also, we have seen how Jordan Bell has played so far, especially on the defensive end.  Can he be the next Draymond Green?  
STEVE KERR: Well, first of all, thank you for the support.  We know the Warriors are very popular in many places, and it feels good to know that, so thank you.   
Kevin has been really good defensively this year, blocking a lot of shots.  He's just using his length and his athleticism and playing with good energy, so that's the main thing.  He's going to be having a really fun matchup on Christmas Day with LeBron, and that's always one of the best matchups to watch every year in the NBA.   
Jordan Bell is doing really well.  He's coming along.  He's learning a lot from Draymond.  He's playing a similar style, guarding everybody on the floor.  That's kind of how the NBA works these days.  You have to be able to guard big guys and guards, and that kind of versatility is really key for us.  I don't know if he can ever become Draymond Green, but he's definitely on his way to becoming a very good player.   
 Q.  How do you feel about Manu Ginobili, at 40 years old, still making a difference in the NBA?  
STEVE KERR: Well, Manu is one of my favorite players and one of my favorite teammates that I ever had.  He loves the game, and he is so smart.  He understands the game at a very deep level.  So I think it's helping him at the age of 40 that he understands the game so well and sees things that other players don't see.   
He's also a phenomenal athlete, wonderful athlete.  He's kept himself in great shape over the years, and that's allowed him to have a long career.   
 Q.  I wanted to ask you, are you worried about the ejections of Kevin Durant?  He's already had three, that's the most in his entire career.  
STEVE KERR: Yeah, I'm not worried about it.  I think Kevin went through a couple of weeks where he was pretty frustrated.  Things weren't going that well for him, and he was getting angry.  I had the same problem.  I got a couple technicals during that time, and I was getting frustrated.  I think since that time, we've done a much better job as a team of not complaining to the officials and just focusing on the game and playing and understanding that you're going to get some bad calls.  That's just the way the game works.  It's a very difficult game to officiate.  So Kevin has done a better job of handling all of that, and I'm not worried about it at all.   
 Q.  We just had two regular-season games in Mexico.  What would it mean for your team to come to play in Mexico, and do you like the idea?  
STEVE KERR: Yeah, I would love to.  I love playing overseas.  I've played in Europe and played in China, and it's fun to play in a different environment in front of different fans.  I know the fans in Mexico love the NBA.  I would enjoy a game like that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT