NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: DEVILS v AVALANCHE
May 26, 2001
Rob Blake
Ray Bourque
Patrick Roy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. It looked like you beat them to the punch throughout the entire game, you were more
aggressive, quicker; do you think you caught them by surprise a little bit?
 
 RAY BOURQUE: Well, came out-- I think we came out pretty good, played a good solid game
and you know, we were skating well and I think we moved the puck pretty well and got some
speed. Scored some goals and did a good job in the special teams, especially P. K., And
again Patty was there when we needed him. 
 
Q. Rob, Coach Hartley said you were a little upset but he wouldn't put you into the
game because he was afraid you might go after them. 
 
 ROB BLAKE: No, I don't think so. I think that's kind of how they want to set something
for the next game and that, but you got to keep your composure out there and we did that
for the most part tonight and get the victory. 
 
Q. Patrick, they bumped into you in the third period. Did you think they tried to
rattle you and did they?
 
 PATRICK ROY: Didn't bother me at all. It is part of the game and, you know, I just
wanted to stay focused and make sure I was ready for every shot coming at me and tried to
make the key save and like I said, yesterday try to give my teammates a chance to win the
game and they deserve a lot of credit, they played outstanding, my teammates, that's the
type of effort we had to put. I am sure New Jersey is going to try to adjust and we are
going to have to raise the bar again.  
 
Q. Ray, it has been clearly established that you guys rotate the pairings with just
depending on the circumstances but could you talk about playing with Adam most of the
night and against the A Line? 
 
 RAY BOURQUE: Well, Adam played a great game and you know, if I am paired with Adam or
Rob, you know, it is -- for me it is a joy and it makes my job a lot easier. I think we
did a good job tonight, you know, again Adam was strong and was there and physically you
know, he is there every night. He is tough to play against. So tonight did a pretty good
job in terms of shutting them down. But like Patrick said they are going to come harder
and we are going to have to play better. 
 
Q. Rob, I don't believe you had a shift after you scored the goal; is that correct?
 
 ROB BLAKE: I had one more after that.  
 
Q. When was that decision reached not play the last 12 minutes or so?
 
 ROB BLAKE: It was last eight minutes. I think the score was 4-nothing at the time
there, we had a couple of powerplays so it wasn't anything really to get out there for. 
 
Q. Patrick you have played a long time with Petr Forsberg, do you think logic would
dictate, you lose a player like that, you would not be able to continue to play at this
level. It seems you don't miss a beat without him. Any surprise there at all?
 
 PATRICK ROY: Not at all. Through the season we had some adversity like that and we
always find a way to keep winning and obviously the first game we played against the Blues
was a key and but again, we have a lot of leadership in this room, great leaders, and guys
with big heart, and guys show a lot and it was a good win first game against the Blues,
gave us a lot of confidence and we just keep playing the same way and we play with a lot
of passion and that's what we need. 
 
Q. What happened on the play with McKay, could you just describe how you hit him?
 
 RAY BOURQUE: The puck was coming to him and I kind of stood him up and just caught part
of him and I think I must have caught his wrist or something. But I didn't catch him all,
but I think I just kind of jammed him. I think he jammed his wrist or something, I am not
sure what is wrong with him. But you know, he was coming, I think he saw me at the last
second and really couldn't adjust, but I didn't catch him all, but just I caught him in a
way where he kind of jammed himself and got hurt there.  
 
Q. Chest, shoulder?
 
 RAY BOURQUE: Just with half of my body. 
 
Q. Describe what the emotions were like in the locker room before it started? Nervous?
Butterflies? All of the above? 
 
 ROB BLAKE: Yeah, I don't know if it was so much nerves. A lot of butterflies, anxious,
anxiety. I think guys -- when you have a few days off from the last series everything
builds up, the hype and that you want to get that first shift, that first hit, that first
shot out of the way. Our guys stayed real composed through warmup and into the beginning
of the game.  
 
Q. Patrick, you made that big save off John Madden in the first. It just seemed like
the momentum seemed to build from there. Could you make a comment about the frustration?
 
 PATRICK ROY: I thought the guys played a super first period. Just wanted to make sure
that we could come back at the one-nothing after the 1st and to me, I mentioned to Ray in
the dressing room after the game I said, I thought that was my key save of the game, my
best save, most important save was on that play. 
 
Q. Rob, could you talk about the fact that the Game 1 against the Blues Game 1 against
the Devils Joe Sakic had terrific games in both. How much does that give you guys life
watching him play as well as he has?
 
 ROB BLAKE: It is great. Obviously he is one of the leaders along with these guys up
here right now. The young guys look to Joe and he has taken charge, a little injury there
early on in Playoffs, he has overcome that, had a great series against St. Louis and he
has carried it over again tonight. You give him any space out there, let him get that shot
off, he is real effective. 
 
Q. Patrick, that's back-to-back shutouts for you in the Stanley Cup Final. Do you
remember the last player to score on you in the Stanley Cup Final?
 
 PATRICK ROY: Good question. I know it is against the Panthers, but I can't remember,
sorry about that. (Laughter) it was in the first period, but that's all I can remember.  
 
Q. Rob and Ray, being relatively new to the club, how did you play with Joe going into
a game? How did you prepare for him? What did you have to do? 
 
 RAY BOURQUE: You had to play him tight and not give him any room, but you know, he is
so quick that if you miss, forget it, he is gone and he is off to the races. But he has
got such a great shot and quick release I mean, he is so quick, sometimes you think you
have got him and he spins out of a turn or he stops and he starts, he is so explosive, he
is really tough to contain. 
 ROB BLAKE: I think the same thing, I think you just try to contain him. You don't stop
a guy as talented as good as that. 
 
Q. Ray, emotionally is this what you expected for Game 1 of the Cup after being gone so
long?
 
 RAY BOURQUE: It was good. I was ready, focused and really anxious for the game to
start. Once it started we are all set.  
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT