US OPEN
September 11, 1998
Cyril Suk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. What does it mean to you, first one? You look a little jacked up? 
 
 SANDON STOLLE: Oh, yeah. I think tonight is going to be a long night, even tomorrow
night probably. It's a great feeling to finally win your first Slam, even if it's in
doubles or anything. I think it's just unreal, it's a great feeling. 
 
Q. Can you give your father a hard time now?
 
 SANDON STOLLE: No. I'll just probably -- he'll probably give me just as much of a hard
time. I'm sure he was watching the monitors. He had things to do today. 
 
Q. What was he doing?
 
 SANDON STOLLE: He was probably doing clinics somewhere in one of the hospitalities
around here somewhere. 
 
Q. Came down to looked like a racquet on the net by Nestor, they would have had two
match points in that tiebreak. 
 
 SANDON STOLLE: That's right. 
 
Q. That's pretty close.
 
 SANDON STOLLE: Yeah. Are you going to say anything or just sit there? 
 CYRIL SUK: I'm going to sit here. 
 SANDON STOLLE: I think, obviously, we said after the match, obviously tennis is a game
of inches. That was a big point. I don't know if it was fate or what, but we got through
that point. We were down a couple match points. We played those two points pretty well.
Knowles -- I crossed and he missed a reflex volley wide by maybe an inch and a half. There
again, it was close. Yeah, I think that was the biggest point, the one where Nestor hit
the net. Like you said, he never hit the net before ever, so we got a lucky break. 
 
Q. You seemed to pick it up?
 
 SANDON STOLLE: I think that was huge for us. Obviously, they were disappointed. They
thought they were obviously right in the match. They thought they had it won. We got a bit
lucky, but we also hung in. We tried to make them play a lot more balls at that stage. It
worked out for us. We took that into the third. 
 
Q. You probably haven't thought about it, but this puts you right in the race for
Hartford, 8, up from 17. Does that excite you a little bit or not?
 
 SANDON STOLLE: Yeah. I mean, I think it's more exciting to win the Slam, to be
truthful. We were a long way out of the team standings. But now we have a shot. We have
three more tournaments to play together for the year, and hopefully we'll do well in
those, you know, make the team standings in the end. 
 
Q. Where will you play?
 
 SANDON STOLLE: Just the Super 9's in Europe. 
 
Q. How long did it take you guys to come together as an efficient team? Did you just
start to gel at this tournament, would you say?
 
 CYRIL SUK: The first tournament we played together two years ago in Cincinnati, we made
the finals. Actually, it was to Knowles and Nestor, as I remember. Since then, we decided
to play together because we match fine. I thought we were efficient at that time already. 
 
Q. In between that, you had some time off.
 
 CYRIL SUK: He had a vacation, because he had a stress fracture in his shoulder for like
six months, so we couldn't play. But he came back in January. He's doing fine. 
 
Q. What about a Grand Slam in particular, you both played a lot of Grand Slam doubles
matches, why was it such a good run this time?
 
 SANDON STOLLE: Myself, you know, I felt after having -- like I said, I played basically
with my father in an event. Cyril played it, as well, out on Long Island. It was a pretty
relaxing week of tennis. Also, it was pretty intense the same way. But it was a different
intensity. I think we both -- I came in feeling -- I ended up winning that out there, and
came in really relaxed and confident at the same time. So I think we brought that into the
early rounds that we played. We just hung in every match. All the teams we beat this Slam,
we lost to, we had losing records against. I think we just proved to ourselves that we can
beat those teams, you know. Even if we're not playing great, if you hang in there, and it
just happened to be our week. That's what is so great about our sport. In tennis in
general right now, anyone can have one of those weeks, and anyone -- it's the same in
singles. 
 
Q. Was it your victory over the Woodies maybe?
 
 SANDON STOLLE: I think so. I mean, the last few times we played them, you know, we lost
to them. We got through that match. I think we were also down in the quarterfinals against
Damm-Grabb. We lost to them a few weeks ago. We hung in that match, as well. It was just
an unbelievable couple weeks. Can't explain it more than that. 
 
Q. Do you think doubles, to some degree, requires more mental toughness than singles?
 
 SANDON STOLLE: No. 
 CYRIL SUK: I think to some degree, yeah, because if you play singles, and you are
losing yourself, you just can be mad at yourself. But if you play doubles, you have your
partner there, so obviously you're not always playing a hundred percent. So sometimes one
guy is playing a little bit worse or the other one. So then you have the guy who is like,
you're trying, you see the guy isn't doing that well, so the mental part is that you're
there with your guy and you're trying to help him out. If you show him that you're mad at
him, he's going to play even worse. I think this is the mental toughness of the doubles
game. 
 
Q. Do you guys ever get mad at each other?
 
 CYRIL SUK: Yeah, he did get mad at me the other game. I hit three double-faults in a
row, you know. So we came back to the changeover. He told me like, "You know what, if
do you this again, I'll kill you." I was sort of cheered up for the next game. 
 
Q. How do you split the trophy? You can split the money.
 
 SANDON STOLLE: I think we get a replica. This one stays here. I was looking at the
names on here. Some pretty good doubles teams come through. It's going to be a nice little
trophy for the mantelpiece, I guess. 
 
Q. What tournament was that where you won with your dad?
 
 SANDON STOLLE: It's the Huggybear. It's an exhibition tournament. 
 
Q. Who did you guys beat in the final?
 
 SANDON STOLLE: We beat -- it's basically a format of -- one format of pro, ex-pro,
which are pros on tour now and ex-pros that played but are a bit younger, say under 35,
that still play pretty well. Then there's another division, which is the pro-am. That's a
pro and an amateur. My dad in that event is considered an amateur because he's 60 and he's
not one of the younger guys, but he still hits the ball really well. In the amateur
division, you have teams like Rosewall and Grabb, Omedo and Leach. There's some other
older guys, like Rochey has played it, Newcombe. It's a great event. Teddy Forstman runs
it for his charity, the Huggybears. He's done so the last ten years.  
 
Q. Is it round-robin or did you have to play someone in the final?
 
 SANDON STOLLE: What happens is you go through the tournament. Say you go through the
pro-am tournament. Dad and I went through that. We got to the final. We won the final of
that. Then you play the pro/expro division in the final of the thing. You get points.
Every match we played, we had to give points away in the pro-am division. When we got to
the final, we ended up getting a few points. 
 
Q. Who was it you beat?
 
 SANDON STOLLE: We beat John deJager and Manuel deOca, who I think is a pro here in New
York or something like that. John was a semifinalist here in the doubles, as well. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT