FEDCUP WORLD GROUP FIRST ROUND: ITALY v U.S.A.
February 9, 2014
Karin Knapp
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







K. KNAPP/A. Riske
  6‑3, 7‑5

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Did you feel like you were losing momentum in the second set?   If so, what did you do to get it back and close it out? 
KARIN KNAPP:   Losing?   It's not easy because she came back.   I get a little bit nervous.   I get a little bit of emotion. 
I think it was not easy, but I tried to continue my game, to hit the ball hard, to command the game.   Yeah, I think this was the key. 
At the end, the last game, I served again better.   I think this was the key. 

Q.   Were you having some problem with your rhythm on the service during the second set?   You had a lot of aborted ball tosses. 
KARIN KNAPP:   I have some problems with that.   So when I get nervous, it's worst. 
We are working.   But, yeah, I think there was the momentum that I didn't serve well.   At the end, the last game, I think I served again well. 
I have some problems, but it's not a problem. 

Q.   When did you find out you would be playing Alison Riske today?
KARIN KNAPP:   I finded out after my warmup because the captain came and told me I would play against her. 

Q.   How does that work when you find out last minute you're going to be playing another opponent?   Play any factor in your head at all?
KARIN KNAPP:   Yesterday Madison I didn't know.   Against Alison, I played last year in Australia, so I know her, how she's playing.   I practice with her this year in Hobart. 
Yeah, I mean, it doesn't change so much because I have to go to court and do what I have to do:   hit the ball hard and serve well. 
Of course, it changed a little bit, but not too much. 

Q.   Can you describe what your emotions were like.   You said you got nervous in the second set.   Were you thinking about your country? 
KARIN KNAPP:   Yeah, yeah, it's not playing like just for me.   Fed Cup, you have your team there.   They all want you to win, to get the victory.   But at the end I'm alone on court every time.   I have to manage it. 
I think it was not easy, but I managed it good. 

Q.   Alice got you pretty good with the water at the end there.   Did you think your revenge was just as good? 
KARIN KNAPP:   Yeah, I said this morning if we win we have to jump into the snow.   After, we will all put the jacket on, the scarf, we will jump in the snow (laughter). 

Q.   We spoke with Alison.   She said she and the American team are very good friends.   Are you friends with your Italian teammates?
KARIN KNAPP:   Yeah, of course, of course.   I know Alice.   I know her better this week.   With Camila, I know her already through tournaments.   Nastassja, too. 
I think we were a great group.   We had a nice week.   Yeah, they ‑ how do you say ‑ supported me in singles, now I go to support them in doubles. 

Q.   When you go to a Grand Slam or other tournaments around the world, do you hang out with them at other tournaments?
KARIN KNAPP:   Yeah, if it's possible, of course.   Here is very different.   Here is a team, we stay together, eat at the same time, have the same schedule. 
In tournaments it's not like this because maybe one's playing first, the other one's second.   Yeah, but if you can, of course. 

Q.   What does this win mean in Italy?   Did you notice the Italian fans here at the top of the auditorium?
KARIN KNAPP:   I think it means a lot because I think we won against a really tough, tough team.   They were all high ranked.   We won here in America.   Winning out of home, it's never easy. 
Yeah, we had some support of Italy, too, so it was really nice.   I think it's a great win for us because we came here without our top players.   Yeah, we are really happy about this. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT