FEDCUP WORLD GROUP FIRST ROUND: ITALY v U.S.A.
February 8, 2014
Karin Knapp
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







K. KNAPP/C. McHale
  6‑3, 3‑6, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please, for Karin. 

Q.   Can you tell us what happened in the third set.   You were dominating after Christina came back.   What shifted or changed for you? 
KARIN KNAPP:   I think in the third set I changed a little bit my game because in the second set I was a little bit too much playing just cross‑court, so Christina was always waiting there.   She know that I was playing there. 
In the third set I changed a little bit up, and I think this was the difference. 

Q.   Talk a little bit about the second set.   Obviously you started well in the first set.   You had a break in the second set.   How did it get away? 
KARIN KNAPP:   Yeah, I had one game not really good, the second game in the second set.   I made two double‑faults and some more errors. 
But it can happen, you know.   Of course, it is better if it not happen.   But in the second set, how I said, Christina hit the ball harder and I did a little bit too much just cross‑court, yeah, some errors, that's it.   She got confidence, and yeah. 

Q.   Karin, it appeared that she hit a lot to your backhand and that seemed to really favor you, especially in the first and third sets.   Do you remember that? 
KARIN KNAPP:   My better shot is the forehand, so...   How I say, in the third and first set I change it a little bit up with along the lines.   I tried to hit more the forehand of Christina because today I think it was worse for her if I play on her forehand. 
But, yeah, I don't know why. 

Q.   As the team leader, so to speak, how important is it to give Italy a lead here early on in the tie?
KARIN KNAPP:   I think it's positive, a lot of positive.   How you said, I'm the number one.   The other girls are new.   They don't know.   Maybe they are a little bit nervous. 
If I get the point, make Camila goes on the court a little bit more relaxeder [sic].   I hope she's doing well, and let's see. 

Q.   How would you describe the atmosphere?   How does it compare to some of the other indoor places you've played? 
KARIN KNAPP:   Yeah, how I said already, the stadium is really, really nice.   You have a loud crowd that came, a lot of people.   It's nice to play there. 
It's Fed Cup.   They had a nice open ceremony.   Yeah, I think it's a good place to play. 

Q.   How much do you think your previous Fed Cup experience helped you out there?   I know Christina had some experience, as well. 
KARIN KNAPP:   I think she had more experience than me. 
Yeah, but I feel confidence.   I feel good this day.   I practice really good.   I try just to go out and do what I have to do on court.   It's not easy.   Fed Cup is different than a normal tournament. 
I think I played a great match. 

Q.   Can you talk about how you dominated during the third set. 
KARIN KNAPP:   Yeah, how I said, I changed a little bit up my game.   I did not just hit cross‑court, I hit also along the line.   I tried always to have the play in my hand, to not let her hit hard.   I think this was the key for the third set. 

Q.   About your teammates, they were very loud and supportive of you during the rubber.   The U.S. team was also supportive of Christina.   You really could hear your team over the American crowd.   How important is that to you?
KARIN KNAPP:   How I said it already yesterday.   We are not a lot, but we are loud.   That's what I love about playing Fed Cup:   because we are a group, we are trying to help us, the one outside the court, the captain on court. 
Yeah, they were really, really great.   They help me.   They gave me confidence.   It's a great group. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT