KIA CLASSIC
March 26, 2021
Gerina Piller
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Gerina, bogey-free 2-under 70.  How did it feel to put that round together on day two here?
 GERINA PILLER:   Felt awesome.  Game is coming around, and this is probably the most comfortable I've been on the golf course since having my son.  So that's been a big obstacle for me, is coming back and kind of finding -- I don't want to say like the old me because I'm not definitely the same, but everything just feels good.
 Q. Just kind of find that old groove?
 GERINA PILLER:   Yeah, yeah.  And I've had some success here in San Diego and I love the course.  You know, you just have to be really patient on the greens.  You can't really like aim inside the hole and hit it firm.  You're kind of playing defense all day because you don't want a bunch of 3- and 4-footers.
 But I feel like I stayed pretty patient.
 Q. When you look at, like you said, kind of maybe learning to adjust to life on tour as a mom, has that been the biggest thing to finding a balance between taking care of your son and a family and also getting back into that form?
 GERINA PILLER:   Yeah, for sure, and taking over a year off from competitive golf.  I didn't realize how much of a mental muscle you have, and taking that time off you don't use it.
 So that's probably one thing that I didn't -- I practiced my short game.  I went to the gym.  I got stronger.  I just felt like I kind of didn't work on that, and lately I switched to a new coach last week and he just really has me really believing in myself what I'm doing and kind of going back to my old feels of how I was hitting it before.
 It's working, so I'm pumped.
 Q. Who are you working with?
 GERINA PILLER:   His name is Brian Zeigler.
 Q. Where is he based?
 GERINA PILLER:   Yeah, he's in Dallas.  He's down at Dallas National.  He works with Chris Como as well.  And so, yeah, he's been great and I'm excited.  I have a new caddie this year and so, yeah, everything is just new.
 Ready to roll.
 Q. You kind of mentioned it, just finding that groove again.  You're looking for your first top 10 since the 2019 Volunteers of America.  What will it take to get that done as you sit T6 right now?
 GERINA PILLER:   Just keep doing what I'm doing.  I think that's kind of my mantra before I got pregnant.  It was just focus on the progression and the results take care of itself.
 Because that's one thing you can control.  You can't control what other girls are doing and you can at least control how you're thinking and what you're doing out there.  So just as cliche it's sounds, try to stay patient with putts.  Poana greens can definitely get the best of you.  If you're hitting great putts and they're not going in, that is how I've been the last couple days, I've hit some great putts and they haven't fallen in yet, so just staying patient and hopefully they'll start falling these next two days.
 Q. Do you find yourself back in the heat of it, back near the top the leaderboard?  Do you expect maybe more adrenaline tomorrow morning?
 GERINA PILLER:   For sure.  I had it the last two days and I haven't had it for a while.  You know, had kind of knee-knocker on the last hole.  Ran it by, and to make to coming back was good and I think a huge confident boost for tomorrow.  I did the same thing on 9.  Hitting the tee shot on 10, that's not an easy tee ball, and I looked at my hand and it was kind of shaky.
 So it's kind of for me a love/hate thing.  You love it because you're in the heat of the moment, playing great, but you hate it because it's uncomfortable.  You know, everyone will say being nervous is an uncomfortable feeling.  You just got to accept it.  There is no rule that says you can't play well or hit it good when you're nervous.
 Q. Last one I have for.  Grant Boone mentioned it's your 200th career start.  When you hear that and look back on what you've been able to accomplish so far in your career, what are some of the things that come to mind?
 GERINA PILLER:   You know, just -- I think just the perspective that I have now.  Like I'm about to go pick up my son from daycare, and he doesn't have a clue what I'm doing out here.  He knows I play golf and go to work and he goes and sees his friends.
 So just kind of keeping that perspective.  It's just golf.  It's not the end of the world.  Just go out there and give it my all and commit to every shot and every decision I make.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT