MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 22, 2017
Gerina Piller
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I know I think you told us that you don't think you've ever led after the first round, and then you're leading after the second round.  Did the approach mentality stay the same that you were in the final group here on the third day?
GERINA PILLER: Definitely.  You know, there's no need to fix something that ain't broke.  The putts just didn't fall for me today, but my game feels great.  Got it back to under par, which was huge, after being 1-over at the turn.  Just looking forward to tomorrow, having some fun, and making some birdies.
Q. What was the difference today?  Obviously you did really well in the first two days.
GERINA PILLER: I mean, the conditions were definitely different.  The course is playing softer, and the wind direction was different, made us choose different clubs off of tee boxes.  I mean hit driver on 9, which that's not a driver hole at all, because of the soft conditions and the wind.  That definitely made it a little tricky out there, but just the putts weren't falling, and just got to stay patient with that.
Q. Were the greens drastically different than yesterday because of the rain this morning?
GERINA PILLER: They were more receptive.  They weren't super soft, but the greens were definitely firm coming into the week.  But they weren't like hitting and back spinning, and you weren't having to throw it past the pin to bring them back.  Again, the course is in fabulous shape, and they've done a great job with it.
Q. What's it going to take for you to be in contention tomorrow?
GERINA PILLER: Great shots, lots of birdies.
Q. When you get to the weekend and you're in contention, getting that first win, is that something that's on your mind?  Do you block it out?
GERINA PILLER: Well, it's definitely on my mind and you can't -- I don't think for anyone out here, I don't think it's never on their mind, and I think the key is what you do with that thought; is it coming to you in a negative way, a positive way.  The way you handle it I always think is -- your reality isn't your environment, it's how you deal with reality, that's reality -- how you deal with your environment, that's reality.  I just try to go out there, and if that thought comes into my head, I'm going to -- I'll listen to it and then I'll just kind of throw it to the side and then I'll focus on what's at hand, and that's hitting good shots.
Q. You're going to sign some autographs; is it a point of emphasis for you to reach out to the youth, the future of the LPGA Tour that are coming out to these events?
GERINA PILLER: For sure.  I think I was a little girl once a long time ago, and I think that they're the future of the game, so it's the least I can do is give back, and you never know what kind of day someone is having, you could turn it around, and that's just one way to think of giving back.  There's going to come a day and time when people don't want my autograph anymore, so I'm going to take advantage of that.
Q. With the youth of Nelly, what have you seen from her?  You got kind of an up-close version of her today.
GERINA PILLER: Yeah, she's good.  I mean, leading an LPGA tournament rookie season, that's pretty impressive.  She's got a really good game.  Her and her sister both have really good swings.  The future is looking bright for American golf.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT