MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 21, 2017
Gerina Piller
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Four more birdies today; you seemed to be pretty comfortable out there.  How were you feeling after 36 holes?
GERINA PILLER: Yeah, I'm feeling good.  I think I like the golf course because it sort of suits my game.  Greens are pretty small, and you have to hit good approaches, but every time you're on the green, you kind of have a makeable birdie putt, and putting is my strength, so I think that's been working for me, and yeah.
Q. So outside missing the cut at the Women's Open last week, you've been playing really strong, a lot of top-20, top-30 finishes.  Do you feel like your game is starting to pull into gear?
GERINA PILLER: Yeah, I think so, and I also think the more I play, I feel better to get into a competitive environment because playing and then taking weeks off is hard sometimes, but the more I play, it's better.  Obviously last week was just -- I would have loved to have made the cut but just missed it.
Yeah, I think just not being able to put good rounds together and four consistent rounds.  They've been rounds where I'm going good but then just dropped a few shots.  Here a few shots is like 20 girls.  Yeah, hopefully I can just keep playing the way I'm playing.
Q. I know you've got the LET experience under your belt, and this is nothing against that, but moving over here, traveling all around the States and everything, do you think you're starting to get used to that, as well?
GERINA PILLER: Yeah, maybe, and also just getting used to the week because it's hard sometimes.  You have to practice on the course and then you want to practice after your round, as well, but then by the time Thursday comes, you don't want to feel like you've already worked for four days.  It's kind of tough to manage that, and I think I've been doing that well.
This week I wasn't actually supposed to play, so when I came here I just took it kind of easy and I practiced not as much as I would have usually practiced like in the last three or four weeks, and that maybe has kind of helped, just going out there and focusing for a shorter period of time, yeah.
Q. And you mentioned that, I know you're here because of the women's British qualifier and you certainly put yourself in good position.  I know the first cutoff is 36 holes.  Do you watch it for the afternoon, or what are you going to do?
GERINA PILLER: Yeah, well, I think before -- I knew five girls were going to get the spot, but my goal was just think that you have to be top 5 in the tournament anyway, whether the players ahead of you are already in the British or not.  Just keep being top 5, because I've been top 10 after a couple days, so this time I was like, okay, I should be closer to the leaders than before, so that was my goal sort of for the tournament and for the British, and it kind of worked out.  I'm sure I'm in a good spot, but yeah, I will keep watching because I think on this course, the afternoon wave gets it a little easier than the morning sometimes, so maybe there will be better scores.
Q. What's the difference do you think between the morning and the afternoon?
GERINA PILLER: There is a little more wind in the afternoon, but I think it's just -- it's just easier to warm up and play in the afternoon than in the morning.  Sometimes you get here really early, and it might seem like fresh greens and stuff, but I still think the afternoon is easier.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT