MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 21, 2017
Gerina Piller
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Gerina, it's always difficult to follow up an extremely good round with another one.  How satisfied were you with the way you played this morning?
GERINA PILLER: Very satisfied.  I feel like I was pretty steady.  I kind of had a par streak going there.  But I gave myself chances for birdie, and at that point, you've just got to be patient, and there's some birdie holes out there.  I stayed patient, not one on my front nine and then reeled off three in a row on the back.  It is difficult, but if you can just kind of plug along and hit fairways and greens and keep it simple, that's what I feel.
Q. This tournament has had a history of producing first-time winners like a couple years ago Chella Choi won.  What would it mean to you to win the Marathon Classic for your breakthrough victory?
GERINA PILLER: Well, it's only Friday, so I wouldn't put the cart before the horse, but to get that first win I think would be really special, no matter where it is.  I'm just going to try to focus on the process, and the result will take care of itself.
Q. 3-under today, right?  Are you happy?  Obviously you gained a little bit of ground.
GERINA PILLER: Yeah, you know, it's tough to follow up an 8-under.  The conditions were great out there.  The course is in great shape.  I got off to a slow start, just made some pars, but I was giving myself chances, and that's kind of all you can ask for.
Q. Is it kind of a unique situation on a Thursday or Friday, especially on a Friday, where you're playing in the same group with at times a co-leader, two people that are chasing in front of the field?
GERINA PILLER: Yeah, I think you try not to think of that stuff, you just try to go out there and play your own game.  I think I.K. was -- I'm not sure where she was to start the day, but she played really well today, but you've just got to focus on yourself and what you can control.
Q. Looking ahead to Saturday, what more can you do to continue this ball rolling?
GERINA PILLER: Just kind of stay within myself and just focus on the process.  That's hitting good shots, picking good targets, and just being really patient.
Q. How would you evaluate this round?
GERINA PILLER: I felt like I played great.  You know, I missed some birdie opportunities, but I made some longer putts today.  Ball-striking feels great.  Putting feels great.  It was just a matter of staying patient and just letting the results come.
Q. 63 yesterday; was that the lowest round you ever shot in your life?
GERINA PILLER: No, it's not.
Q. Who's the first person you called yesterday after you shot that low round?
GERINA PILLER: My husband.
Q. I bet he was excited?
GERINA PILLER: Yes, he was very excited.
Q. How do you like this humidity here in Ohio?
GERINA PILLER: It's nothing different than Texas.
Q. Obviously it's got to feel good to be in the position you are in heading into the weekend.
GERINA PILLER: Yeah, you know, I don't think I've ever held a lead after the first round.  The scores are going to be low, but the conditions are just perfect out there, and you couldn't ask for a better-conditioned course.  The greens are rolling great, and I don't think I've ever played here where the course is in bad shape.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT