OLYMPIC GAMES RIO 2016: GOLF
August 20, 2016
Gerina Piller
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. How was it to play in that last group and just be here?  
GERINA PILLER: Yeah, it was pretty special. I think I'll cherish this week forever. Just taking a lot of positives away from it. Yeah, it's been a great week.   
   
 Q. A month ago, you weren't even on this team, and to just be in that final group, can you take a step back and appreciate that right now, or is it just too raw?   
GERINA PILLER: No, definitely. I didn't even think I had a chance to be here, so to come and to be in contention is all I can really ask for. Just going to learn from it and move on.   
   
 Q. How much did you learn playing in the last group, just maybe a different pressure? Did you learn anything from today?   
GERINA PILLER: Yeah, I think more just trusting myself. It was more just a personal thing like as far as learning about my golf game and learning about my tendencies. I think that's definitely going to help in the future, and I can look back on this, yeah, and remember it forever and cherish it.  
   
 Q. Lydia's caddie said she thought it was harder for you guys as Inbee kept separating herself because it's like you come into the day hoping you can win, and now you see that Gold Medal disappearing. What was that like for you? Did you find it more difficult or did it matter?   
GERINA PILLER: No, you can't really‑‑ I tried not to think about what they are doing and just stay in the moment and my golf game. I kind of got off to a rough start but brought it back. That was huge for me. You know, just kind of putts didn't fall like they did yesterday. There's kind of nothing you can do about that.  
   
 Q. You said yesterday you knew you were going to have to deal with thoughts that were popping into your head, and that's sort of part of the game. How were the emotions out there, especially with nine holes to go? Was it just a constant battle with nine to go, or how were you trying to deal with that?  
GERINA PILLER: I wouldn't say‑‑ it's tough, just because there's just so much on the line and with golf being back in the Olympics for the first time, there's a lot of history. I think you want to stay in the moment, but then you want to allow yourself to see those positive thoughts and see yourself hitting the great shots and just the feelings and everything.   
And so I felt like, you know, I felt like maybe I held on a little too tight.   
   
 Q. Did you appreciate everything on 18, just the crowd and how good‑‑ I know you're emotional, but just how great it kind of was, having golf here?   
GERINA PILLER: Yeah, the crowds were awesome today. I didn't know what to expect. There's a lot of people that come to the Olympics that don't really know much about golf. It was pretty impressive that all the people came out and it was really cool to see the American support. Korea had a big backing and so good Lydia. It's just pretty cool that you come all the way to Brazil and you saw people cheering for you, so it's pretty awesome.  
   
 Q. Will you walk in the closing ceremony?   
GERINA PILLER: I will.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT