UL INTERNATIONAL CROWN
July 21, 2016
Gerina Piller
Stacy Lewis
Cristie Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How did it go for you guys out there today?
GERINA PILLER: Well, it fell back and forth.  It was great golf being played.  I mean, Charley made everything she looked at.  She was 7- or 8-under on her own ball.  I mean, we kind of had a lot of swings of momentum.  We kind of got it early and then they took it back as we made the turn.  I thought we got some momentum back on 15, and then Charley makes an eagle putt.  It was just really back and forth, and the match was really tight all day.
Q. Gerina, how would you sum up the day?
GERINA PILLER: Pretty much the same thing.  They're really good players, and we're kind of just head-to-head at the beginning of the match, and then we kind of rip away, got 2-up, and then they went 2-3-2, and 2-3-2 is kind of hard to beat when you've got two par-3s and a par-5.  They kind of got that back.
I felt like we stayed in it all day, and there was just a lot of great shots hit.  Like the par-5s, eagles had to win, so that just kind of summed up the whole day.
Q. Stacy, you guys got in a similar situation last year.  Is there something you can look back on and say maybe this could help turn it around?
STACY LEWIS: I don't know.  I mean, I felt like we played good golf today, so there's -- and that's what this format is.  You play good golf and you're going to lose matches, and that's the way it goes.  We're going to go out there and play good golf again, and hopefully we get on the good side of it.  We're still in this thing, and we've just got to take care of business tomorrow.
Q. I know that the atmosphere isn't quite the same as a Solheim Cup, but does the pressure feel the same, the want to win feel the same?
GERINA PILLER: Definitely want to win.  There's seven other teams you've got to beat, so it's not like you're just playing one team, like it's just us and Europe.  I think there's just a lot of -- it's kind of anyone's game.  It's not like you know where you stand at all moments.  That's crucial to get on the board, get some points and win your matches.
STACY LEWIS: I don't think the pressure is quite as the same, but I think that's just more with the number of people here.  The first tee at a Solheim is crowded, it's crazy, it's unbelievable pressure, and that's something that we're probably -- I don't know if we'll ever replicate in this event, but it's a different pressure.
Q. Cristie, how would you sum up you guys' match and kind of what the different was?
CRISTIE KERR: Well, it was definitely a close match.  The momentum was shifting back and forth.  We certainly had our opportunities to get in there and win holes, and we played really well on the front, and on the back we didn't play well enough to win.  A couple more putts go in, a couple better shots.  I left Lexi a couple times as a partner, and you can't do that in four-ball if you want to win, and just have to play better.
Q. Did the weather kind of change on you guys towards the end of the round?
CRISTIE KERR: Dramatically.  There was like a storm, it looked like it was going to be a lightning storm, and then it came in and it was weird.  Donna, our representative, said that we barely skirted the lightning storm.  It literally, when Lexi was about to hit, I almost had to stop her because there was a trash can flying about 50, 60 yards behind her.  It looked like it was going to get to her, and it dropped.  It was in the 70s, and it was like cold, and then it got really hot at the end, so it was a weird weather day.
Q. You had kind of a little mini-Solheim match going on there.  Was there a certain familiarity to it because you know them both from the Solheim Cup?
CRISTIE KERR: Yeah, that seems like 100 years ago.  Well, I had never really played with either of them, but I've never been paired with Jodi in a tournament ever.  Like she was commenting on that, and I think maybe I played a practice round with Holly, but just got to play better to win.
Q. So they felt like unknowns to you?
CRISTIE KERR: Yeah, if the order would have been different maybe.  I'm not second-guessing anything, but it's just like where it falls.  They played -- they had 15 birdies and two eagles in their group and ended up losing, so it's crazy how match play is.  It is.  Sometimes you've just got to get lucky with the order, sometimes you've just got to play better.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT