U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 2, 2019
Gerina Piller
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You had it to 5 and were right there.  Then things went the other way.  What happened there?  
GERINA PILLER: I just feel like the pin placements are really tough out there.  If you get on the wrong side of the hole, there are some ridges where you have to go up and over and down-grain.  It's just hard to judge the pace on those.  And a few just kind of got away from me.   
But I still feel like I hit great putts, even on 15, that short one.  I had to play that outside the hole, and you can't be too aggressive because it's down-grain, downhill, and you don't want the same amount of putt coming back.   
I'm proud for hanging in there and posting a low number today on Sunday, especially with the course playing the way it is.   
 Q.  Considering you were away from the game for so long, this has to be a nice score at a Major.  You really have done some good things for yourself.  
GERINA PILLER: Being away from the game for a year was awesome.  I got to spend that with my son.  That time is priceless.  To be back, and I didn't have the start to my season the way I wanted and I pictured it going.  My preparation was awesome, and no matter how much you prepare, you just can't imitate tournament golf, and so it's good to be in contention.  It feels good.  You got to learn -- I feel like I have to relearn my tendencies of when I'm in contention.   
To be in contention at a Major is always a huge confidence boost.   
 Q.  What was your feeling about the way Charleston received the Women's Open?  
GERINA PILLER: It's phenomenal.  This place is great.  Golf course is great.  Just the history of Beth Daniel, her home course, and it's made her out to be a fantastic and wonderful player, Hall of Fame.   
So the fans were amazing, hospitality, southern hospitality is always my favorite.  Live in Texas, from New Mexico, so it's dear to my heart.  It was great to come here.  The weather was awesome.  The hotter the better for me.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT