SWINGING SKIRTS LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY CTBC
April 24, 2016
Gerina Piller
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Big day for the family; you tied for third and your husband tied for fourth.
GERINA PILLER: Yeah.  You know, it was pretty cool before I teed off to watch him.  I have a Slingbox back home, and to see that he was tied for the lead -- he hasn't been getting in too many events just because there's been a lot of WGCs and obviously Masters, and he's not in those.  He tried to Monday qualify for Houston and came up short in a playoff, so that kind of took the wind out of his sails.  To go out this week and get a top 5 is pretty cool.  Nothing makes me more happy than to see him succeed.
Q. How do you make it work?  It's kind of like ships passing through the night, huh?
GERINA PILLER: Yeah, I'm taking a red-eye back, and he's picking me up so I can drop him off.  We'll give a little hug and kiss and there he goes.  It's just something we love to do, and we're in a situation that we're playing on the top tours in the world, so it's pretty cool.  We just enjoy it.
Q. Were you able to keep up with his round while you were out there?
GERINA PILLER: Not on the course.  I got a few updates.  One of my cousins was watching so she was kind of giving me an update of what was going on.  It's actually kind of cool because it kind of took my mind off of my game and what I had to do today, and just because it's so windy.  I was kind of more worried about him than I was my own game.
Q. So your cousin was able to give you word at the turn or something?
GERINA PILLER: Yeah, I think I was on 4 or 5, and she told me that he finished at tied for third, 9-under, so it was just kind of a waiting game to see what the leaders did coming in.
Q. On the plane flight, do you let your mind reflect, wander, as you stood over that putt at 9?
GERINA PILLER: Where?
Q. In position to tie the tournament today.
GERINA PILLER: You know, it's one of those things that it's windy, you've got to post a good round.  I don't even know what I was coming in.  You can't beat yourself up over that.  I played really solid today to shoot 1-over, and I feel like my game is really close.
Q. You've come a long way since "The Big Break" in Prince Edward Island?
GERINA PILLER: Yeah, it's been a while.
Q. Do you still keep in contact with them?
GERINA PILLER: I do not.
Q. Were you able to watch him hit any shots?  Were you watching at all?
GERINA PILLER: No, no, I was watching Slingbox.  Slingbox you can tap into your DirecTV back at home.  I got to see him -- he was playing great.  I play with him all the time, and I know he's a great player.  It doesn't surprise me when he's out there striping drives and hitting it close and making putts.
Q. On the range were you hitting a few shots and then going back and watching?
GERINA PILLER: My caddie was kind of giving me the update.  He was watching, and he has Slingbox, as well, so he was keeping me posted, and Kay Cockerill was doing the same.
Q. The double bogey at 11 was tough, right?  You had the shot into the deep fescue?
GERINA PILLER: Yeah, it's a really tough hole, and I just caught a bad break on the drive, big gust came up and just took my drive pretty far left into the thick stuff.  But you know what, it happens.  It's going to happen to anyone out here, so I'm not going to focus on that.  I did a lot of things great today.
Q. How much does the Olympics and even being on the UL International Crown factor into your motivation at all?
GERINA PILLER: To be honest, I didn't even think I had a chance, and the more I play better, I just -- that's stuff you can't really focus on because golf is kind of one of those things where as soon as you try, it's just going to kick you right in the face.  You know, you've got to go back to, as cliché as it sounds, go back to the basics and take one fairway at a time.  If it's meant to be for me to play on the Olympics and International Crown, it'll happen.  I'm playing great golf, and I've just got to keep riding that.
Q. Do you follow any of the rankings among Americans?
GERINA PILLER: You know, I haven't.  I haven't even looked.  When I get the call that I'm in, then I'll probably look.
Q. Have you and your husband ever been in the hunt the same day before?
GERINA PILLER: We have.  It was, I think, two years ago I was playing the LPGA championship, and it was actually really special then because for him, he actually won that day, and I did not.
Q. That was Web.com?
GERINA PILLER: It was a Web.com event.  He won Knoxville, and he came on that year with very conditional status, wasn't guaranteed one start, and just kind of played his way, and he won, and it was a very emotional win for us, just because I know how hard he's worked to get back, and it didn't guarantee his PGA TOUR card, but it just gave him a place to play for the next couple years, so that was really special.
Q. You said your confidence has been improving lately.  What will you take away from this week?
GERINA PILLER: I mean, a lot.  Really just the fact that I can do this and I belong out here, and I am a top golfer in the world.  Just really believing in myself.  I know how that sounds so immature or whatever, but it's so hard to do that when you're out here.  You're your own worst enemy and your own best friend.  I'm just really getting comfortable with being at the top of the leaderboard, and hats off to my caddie.  He's been amazing.  I could not have done this without him.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT