SWINGING SKIRTS LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY CTBC
April 23, 2016
Gerina Piller
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  2-over through 11, and then you had birdies at 14 and 16.  Just kind of walk me through how it was out there today.  
GERINA PILLER: It was really hard.  The pins were a lot tougher today.  They put a lot of them on the front, and the course is firming up again.  Yesterday it was pretty soft with the rains.  But front pins make it pretty difficult to get it close, and the wind, you've got to accommodate for the wind, accommodate for the cold, so it just makes it a tough day.  I felt like I grinded it out there pretty good, made some good pars, made actually a good bogey save on 11.  I'm feeling good about my game.  This course you've got to pick and choose your battles.  There's some holes that the par-5s are gettable.  That's kind of like your birdie holes or your green light, and there's other par-4s and par-3s that you just have to take par and just kind of 30 feet away from the hole is okay and just hope the long putt falls.   
 Q.  Is it making it harder to chase when you know it's so hard and you can't really press?  
GERINA PILLER: Not necessarily.  I mean, it's playing tough.  It's not an easy course by any means, and the last two holes, you have wedge in your hand, and it's still not easy.  I hit a great shot, really landed it exactly where I wanted it to, and it was like 15, 17 feet from the hole.   
 Q.  Where was that?  
GERINA PILLER: On 18.  The pin is only five on.  You know, I think at this point, I know tomorrow is going to be pretty windy, and for me I'm kind of excited about that because it just kind of levels out the field, and I feel like if I put up a good number, I have a chance.   
 Q.  As far as talking about the pins today, it seemed like you had to pick your spots.  Can you elaborate a little bit more as far as how tough some of those pins really were?  
GERINA PILLER: Yeah, I mean, there were some that were on -- say like No. 3 is on the left, and the wind is blowing pretty hard left to right.  There's no way to get that close, and that's hard to tell yourself that on the green 20 feet or 30 feet right of the pin is a great shot, and so it's hard to get yourself to not want to go at those pins, and even No. 12, 12 is the same way.  It was on the left, wind is hard off the left, and you've kind of just got to take your medicine and just believe that you're putting good enough that you've made 30-footers before.  Hitting greens, hitting fairways is huge out here.   
 Q.  Talk about the mental part of your game as far as just where you are in your development mentally.  People spend so much time working on your game and on the range with coaches and whatnot, but the mental aspect of your game, do you feel pretty good about where you are and the progress you're making in that area?  
GERINA PILLER: Absolutely.  I feel like I belong out here.  I feel like that I can do this, and there's no shot that this course can give me that I can't pull off.  You know, I'm very confident in that, and even with my putts, I had a couple testers today, and to get up there with confidence and hit a great stroke and make the putts, it's a huge confidence booster.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT