SWINGING SKIRTS LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY CTBC
April 22, 2016
Gerina Piller
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Solid day; was it raining when you got out here?  What were conditions like?  
GERINA PILLER: It was a little cold, rainy, windy when I first started.   
 Q.  How many holes was it rainy?  
GERINA PILLER: It was kind of off and on, probably just one -- one had that real out, but I just kind of mentally prepared myself that it was just going to be miserable all day today, and it's a tough course, and so if you can kind of mentally prepare yourself for that and not think that you're going to go out there and shoot 7-, 8-under -- just really focused on being patient today, and there were some birdie holes and there was also holes that pars are really good scores.  You've just got to pick and choose out here.   
The weather definitely makes this course even more harder than it already is.   
 Q.  Did you see Minjee's score and think, what the heck?  
GERINA PILLER: You know, it's a really good round.   
 Q.  Especially with what the conditions were this morning, even worse.  
GERINA PILLER: Right, but you can get it going out here.  It's a ball striker's course, and the greens are all pretty good.  It would be one thing if everyone was doing that, but it's just one, so it's playing tough, it's a couple over, a couple under.  You've just got to go out there and just try to be patient and just hang in there.   
 Q.  You've had top 10s in three of your last four starts, I think.  What's been working recently?  
GERINA PILLER: The confidence, and me and my caddie, we just work really well out there.  To be honest, he kind of gives me just these little snippets of how I need to attack the golf course and how I need to feel.  It's really boosted my confidence, and knowing that he's a great caddie and he believes in me, that's added confidence.   
In Phoenix, Nancy Lopez came up to me on the putting green, and she kind of gave me some words of wisdom and just kind of been texting me here and there, so it's been pretty awesome, and just riding the momentum and just trying to keep myself in it every week, and hopefully I'll be holding that trophy at the end of the week.   
 Q.  Do you think that's close?  
GERINA PILLER: I would hope so.  I would hope it's not far away.  You know, I'm just really sticking to the process and just really telling myself that I can do it, I belong here, and that I am good enough.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT