HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
March 4, 2016
Gerina Piller
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. An early bogey and the middle was spectacular?
GERINA PILLER: I didn't hit my driver left all day, and made a good swing and it was a little too far left.  Just kind of, I don't know, plummeted from there.  But I gave myself a chance at 4.  Hit a great putt and just didn't read that it was going to be that straight.  I feel good about my game.  I did make a bogey early on, and out here, there's some really tough holes.  The first four holes are pretty tough.
So to get those, or the first five, to get through those and make some birdies coming in, I'm feeling pretty confident.
Q. You're a massive hitter of the ball.  Now, this does get a little claustrophobic, so you must really have your driver on a shoestring, because it's not easy being a long driver and getting around here; it's tight.
GERINA PILLER: You have to pick your holes where you hit driver.  The wind this year has definitely made it where we can hit driver more.  I'm using my driver a lot more than I have been in the past.  So it's definitely one of my strengths and so just confident with it.  You've got to really be committed and all-in.
Q. The greens are massive.  You could build a house on most of them, so important to really get the club right, isn't it, and the wind hasn't made it that easy.
GERINA PILLER: Yeah, you've kind of got to divide them into little quadrants.  It does help to hit the ball well and to hit it on your start line.  But they are huge, and that's another thing, you have to be patient.  Especially out here when you're in-between clubs and the wind is kind of going, you're probably not going to hit it tight a lot.
On the front nine, I had a lot of good numbers and coming in, I had a few that I was a little in between so that kind of made it a little more difficult.
Q. The first five holes, you were 1-over through five.  Did you give yourself a pep talk or you just stayed patient?
GERINA PILLER: I made a really good up-and-down on 1.  I was a little squirrely with my longer irons.  Just hit them a little thin right.  3 is a tough hole because you have to be in a really good position in the fairway and then you're usually going to have a hybrid or long iron in.
That hole is just tough to begin with.  My caddie does a really good job of keeping me like in the moment and keeping me positive, and you know, it's easy to get frustrated.  I haven't been playing my best golf, so that fuse is pretty short.
But you know, to be 1-over through five holes, it's actually not that terrible.  It's not like it's easy holes or anything like that and the wind makes it a lot trickier.
I made a birdie on 6.  Birdied 7 and then made a long one on 8.  I missed a short one on 8 yesterday.
Q. How long was that on 8?
GERINA PILLER: That was probably 35 feet.  And then just kind of giving myself chances.  It's huge out here, the course is in such good shape that you get yourself on the greens, and you're going to make some putts, because the greens are great.
In the back, I just wanted to keep on just putting the pedal to the metal and not trying to stick where I'm at or trying to protect where I am.  Just was playing really, really solid.  I was really confident over that last tee shot.  Just hit it a little more left than I wanted to.  Just kind of snowballed from there.
Q. The back-to-back birdies on the back nine, how long were those?
GERINA PILLER: Well, I hit 12 in two, and I only had probably like 30 feet or so for eagle and I left it short, dead in the heart.  So I made birdie there.
And then the next hole was definitely a bonus.  I had like a 4-iron in and again, I hit it like high, thin right and it cleared the bunker and rolled up there pin-high, and I probably had 35 feet and snuck that one in.  Those one, you take them and run.
Q. Anything else, going into tomorrow, fine tune anything?
GERINA PILLER: No, I felt like everything was really good.  Putting's feeling great.  That's always a good thing.  So just rest up and just kind of relax because it's hot out here.
Q. How many times is this here?
GERINA PILLER: I think four.
Q. Do you think more experience here makes a difference, knowing where to miss and things like that?
GERINA PILLER: Yeah, and just the experience of golf in general.  I feel like I'm a better player than I was last year, more confident, and just all around better.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT