LPGA KEB HANABANK CHAMPIONSHIP
October 15, 2015
Gerina Piller
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 6-under, pretty strong start?
GERINA PILLER: I just made some putts.  The greens are rolling pretty quick, and they are pretty pure.  But I think just getting the putter going, I missed the green on the first hole and I had about a 10-footer, so I think that just kind of kick started the whole day.
Q. Not the longest golf course but it is a golf course where length is an advantage; you can reach 5; there's a couple of holes where you have wedges in, and on these pin placements, that's important.  Are you finding that to be the case and were you able to take advantage of it?
GERINA PILLER: Definitely, especially here I always find the ball maybe goes a little shorter here, so it makes it difficult to club.  But definitely having the length, there's a few tee shots where there are some carries that you can take advantage and cut some corners, and have shorter irons into the par 4s that are maybe girls are hitting hybrids or longer irons.  I think having length is definitely always an advantage, and especially this course.
Q. Solheim, that putt obviously, do you feel like that's boosted you the last couple weeks?  Has that made a difference at all, that week?
GERINA PILLER: Definitely.  I feel like there's a lot of times where I may hear that putting is kind of holding me back, and where I think I'm a great putter, but hopefully it's a little quiet to them, and gives me a lot more confidence obviously to perform on that type of stage.  I played great all week and to make a putt of that much significance was definitely a huge confidence booster.
Q. Scores are significantly lower today than they were last year.  Why is that?  Why do you think that is?
GERINA PILLER: This course, the rough has always been tough and firm greens, firm and fast; I think the weather had a lot to do with it.  I think years in the past, it's been a little chilly and that makes the ball obviously go nowhere at all.
So to get a little warmth and get the ball a little higher, a little more spin, and so I think that's a huge part of it.
Q. For a New Mexico girl -- talk about being in an environment where you feel like your best stuff can come out?
GERINA PILLER: I don't feel like I'm comfortable unless I'm at home I guess.  It's definitely not anything like New Mexico.  I've been playing well, so I don't think it really matters where you are.  If you're playing good golf, I think that kind of takes care of everything.
Q. What's turned more in your game recently?  Why are you playing so well right now?  Is there anything different than the start of the year?
GERINA PILLER: I think just more confidence and more consistency.  I know we had talked at the beginning of the year, and what I was working on this year was being more consistent.  I feel like I've got to that point where I'm pretty consistent and it's just a matter of time.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT