SOLHEIM CUP
September 19, 2015
Gerina Piller
Brittany Lang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  First off, what did you have for breakfast this morning, because you came out and played some great stuff.  
GERINA PILLER: Yeah, you know, you've -- couple fried eggs and some toast, and I probably ate it in about two minutes.   
 Q.  Talk to me about that putt.  
GERINA PILLER: Yeah, you've got to pick a line and hit it and hit it good.  A little too firm.  But all you can do is hit good shots and that's all you can do.  Just gave it my best shot and it just didn't go in.   
 Q.  It was really important for the Americans to go out this morning and get something from these two matches this morning, how crucial was that?  
BRITTANY LANG: Yeah, it was, you know, to see Lexi make that putt on 16 and then Gerina make it shortly after, the energy was flowing early.  Gerina played so good, it was really impressive.  So I'm ecstatic to get a half point there.   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  
BRITTANY LANG: Yeah, it is.  I'm excited.  I need to go work on my game.  Gerina needs to get some rest.  We're doing great so it should be fun.   
 Q.  How long was 16?  
GERINA PILLER: 16, I was probably 45 feet.  Off the green over on the fringe.   
 Q.  How many people were out there?  
GERINA PILLER: It was a pretty good crowd.  They definitely showed up this morning.  It's nice to get those long ones going and kind of silence the crowd, and got me really pumped up.  I don't think I've ever given a fist pump that big in my life.   
 Q.  Was that like, all right, let's just finish it off?  
GERINA PILLER: Yeah, you know, I didn't hit a very good drive.  I kind of came out of it to end up with a pretty good lie over there.  I told my caddie, I said, that's like perfect.  You miss it just far enough, and there's no grass.  I had a perfect line at the green.  Hit a good shot.  And to make the putt was even better.   
 Q.  How huge is both getting halves?  
GERINA PILLER: Huge.  It went from a two point swing to now it's a one point swing.  To come out here and make a charge, I think it's going to be huge momentum boost for our team.   
 Q.  How excited are you now to be able to go out and play with Stacy and keep this going?  
GERINA PILLER: I'm pretty excited.  I haven't played alternate shot yet.  It will be a new format for me.  I'm playing great.  And I think me and Stacy will do really well.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT