THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 10, 2015
Gerina Piller
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Eight birdies today, what was the key, tee to green or putting or what was going on?  
GERINA PILLER: I hit my driver really well and I had some pretty -- I hit my irons good, so I was hitting it close.  But the bogeys, there are just some spots on this course you cannot get in.  Coming out I think the key this week is staying away from the big numbers, and I hit it a couple times where you just can't really miss it and didn't get up and down.  But I think overall, my driving was really good today and my putting.  The greens got a little bumpy this afternoon, and obviously they had a lot of slope because we're on the side of a mountain, so they're tricky.  But, yeah, I'm pretty pleased with my round.   
 Q.  Lot of birdies have to be nice to see going into next week, just kind of converting?  
GERINA PILLER: If you're making birdies, you're doing a lot of things right.  It kind of eases the stress when you do miss the green because you are making a lot of birdies, so it's not like it's just par, par, par and you make a bogey now you're one over.  If you make a couple birdies and then make bogey then you're still under par, so that's huge.   
 Q.  Those hard spots make it a little bit easier.  Juli, practice round with her earlier this week?  
GERINA PILLER: Yes, she owes me $20.   
 Q.  Does she really?  
GERINA PILLER: She does.  She makes it known when I owe her money, so she owes me money this time.   
 Q.  20 spot, all right.  How bad was the beating?  
GERINA PILLER: We just played to birdies, so I had two more birdies than her.  But I have to say the last two times she has taken money from me, and she is not one to just take it very --   
 Q.  Modestly or quietly?  
GERINA PILLER: Yeah, she makes it known that she's putting your money like this in her wallet with her elbow.  She uses her elbow shoving it in.  Last time I thought about paying her in pennies, $30 in pennies (Laughing).   
 Q.  Did that have any inspiration, did she give you any pump ups just for going into next week?  
GERINA PILLER: No.  Just I like her company.  She's obviously a great friend of mine, but I think that playing with her and just kind of seeing how she does things and just kind of getting her mojo, the mojo she has the vibe that she gives, I've learned a ton from her.  She's a legend, and I just love playing with her.  I'm like a little sponge around her.   
 Q.  She keeps things loose?  
GERINA PILLER: As much as I give her a hard time, she doesn't know that I'm actually paying attention and taking notes (laughing).   
 Q.  Playing cool?  
GERINA PILLER: Yeah.   
 Q.  Going for your first major, you're obviously in a very good position going into the next three rounds.  Something that you've been really trying to concentrate more on at majors?  
GERINA PILLER: Not really.  I'm the type of person that I like to view these tournaments as just the same size hole.  It's a white golf ball and it's some grass.  You've just got to get it in the hole the least amount of times.  I just came into this week just wanting to be great on every shot and giving it 110% on every shot no matter if it's for par, birdie, eagle, bogey, double, it really -- I really saw some good results from it, so I'm just going to keep doing that and just really have that confidence in myself because I feel like that's going to be a part that's maybe holding me back a little.   
 Q.  What did you do in the week off?  Did you just go home and practice?  
GERINA PILLER: I didn't play Alabama, so I went with Martin to Portland.  Drove to Portland.   
 Q.  How was that?  
GERINA PILLER: It was good.  It was good.  We went to Multnomah Falls which was really cool.  I had never hiked up the mountain to get to the top, so that was kind of cool.  Then last week we're home.  So first few days just kind of rested and did some practice.  I saw my coach, Mike Wright, out at Shady Oaks, and he was -- I went to my lesson and it was like this is easy.  As a player you love when they say this is easy.   
So he took me in the video room and it was just a simple I was letting my right knee float a little bit on the back swing, and that's why I really like him because he just keeps it simple.  Something like that I'm not trying to work on my swing path, my face or anything like that.  It's just so simple and it clicked.  Yeah, hitting it good.   
 Q.  How long have you been with him?  
GERINA PILLER: When was the last Solheim?   
 Q.  2013.  
GERINA PILLER: So I think --   
 Q.  So two summers ago.  
GERINA PILLER: I want to say it was '13.   
 Q.  Before the Solheim Cup or after?  
GERINA PILLER: Yeah, it was the start of the season.   
 Q.  So before the start of 2013.  
GERINA PILLER: Yeah, and we didn't have a -- so we started in Australia.  Yeah, that's when it was, because I could not break 45 on my holes and I went to him.  I need help.  I plan on breaking 90.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT