PURE SILK BAHAMAS LPGA CLASSIC
February 7, 2015
Gerina Piller
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Are you thrilled to‑‑ obviously didn't break away but kind of a little bit, just by one shot to end?  
GERINA PILLER:   Oh, I didn't know that.   Sweet.   
   
 Q.   You're 10‑under, leading by one.   
GERINA PILLER:   Awesome.   Yeah, I just made a few birdies coming in and just really tried to stay patient as far as like taking my time out there and really being committed to my target, my number we picked, my club and everything.   Yeah, it's worked so far.   
   
 Q.   How has club selection been with the wind this week?   
GERINA PILLER:   We've actually been pretty lucky with‑‑ I haven't really been too much in between numbers, so that's been nice, and some of these pin placements with some of the wind, you just have to get it on the green, and we've done a good job about that and just kind of left it up to my putting.   My putting has been great.   I'm very pleased.  
   
 Q.   Has putting been the absolute key do you think?   
GERINA PILLER:   No, I think everything.   I'm driving the ball well, my irons are great, and making birdies, obviously, hitting them close and making 15‑, 20‑ footers.   It's just all coming together.   
   
 Q.   How many long putts do you think you had today?   
GERINA PILLER:   I had two for sure, on 3 and 4, really long.  
   
 Q.   How long are we talking?   
GERINA PILLER:   Probably like 40 to 50‑‑ 40 feet.   
   
 Q.   That had to feel pretty good.   
GERINA PILLER:   Yeah, yeah, especially with the wind.   You've kind of got to play the wind sometimes and the grain is affecting it, so there's all kinds of outside agencies affecting the putts right now.   
   
 Q.   Anything in particular on this course where you think someone is going to have‑‑ what would be someone's game plan to try to break away from such a stacked leaderboard?  
GERINA PILLER:   Just minimize the mistakes, and fairways and greens.   I mean, the wind could switch at any second, it can gust, and that's really hard to deal with.   I think just staying steady with fairways and greens and two‑putting.   
   
 Q.   Now being in contention going into the final day, still a little bit more to play, but you've got to feel very good and confident in this position.   I know you said you're starting to get used to it, but more confident than before?  
GERINA PILLER:   I did.   I was a little nervous on the first tee, but I felt fine.   There's just been a calm over me, and thank the good Lord that he's watching over me.   
   
 Q.   I know you were a little sleepy at lunch.   
GERINA PILLER:   Yeah, a little rough getting going.  
   
 Q.   You picked it up, obviously.   
GERINA PILLER:   Yeah, yeah.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT