PURE SILK BAHAMAS LPGA CLASSIC
February 7, 2015
Gerina Piller
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You had a great round out there this morning, a lot of different conditions out there than yesterday.   Can you talk about what your strategy was starting this morning?   
GERINA PILLER:   You know, I've been hitting it good and putting it well, so you've just kind of got to go out there with a mentality of just because it's windy doesn't mean you're going to play bad.   I still just wanted to go out there and be confident and just kind of take my time almost because I tend to get a little quicker when the wind is picking up.   You know, the wind, you can't really control where it's going to take the ball, so just really focusing on hitting solid shots and picking targets and just really committing to the club and the distance, which is huge on a day like this.  
   
 Q.   Yesterday people were having a hard time because the wind was so strong.   You had a late tee time yesterday.   What did you do beforehand to prepare for the weather?   
GERINA PILLER:   I didn't really do anything to prepare for the weather.   I grew up in New Mexico and west Texas, so we definitely had lots of wind there.   Just kind of hung out in the hotel room, I did some yucky taxes stuff.   That's always fun.   So not really anything golf‑related.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
GERINA PILLER:   Yeah, it was pretty windy.   You've just got to really trust‑‑ we always said like in high school, we always said the wind is your friend, so you've just kind of got to let it help you in any way it can.   It was definitely probably one of the windiest days I've ever played.   
   
 Q.   It wasn't as bad as yesterday, but (inaudible)?  
GERINA PILLER:   No, it was kind of up right away.   It's actually calmed down right now, but it was still ‑‑ I mean, you definitely‑‑ that's the thing, when you play in the wind you can't not focus for one second because you just cannot let down.   It's a mental grind especially.   
   
 Q.   Coming here you know you're going to get some wind.   (Inaudible.)  
GERINA PILLER:   Yeah, I mean, it's just kind of what‑‑ I mean, I don't mind playing in the wind.   You've got to have a good attitude about it going into it thinking that just because it's windy I can still play great and my game is good enough to hold up with the wind.   Just focusing on this year as a whole, just being confident and committed to every shot.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
GERINA PILLER:   No, just talked to my husband, and he's just like, just no matter how you're hitting it or how you feel, just make a goal to be confident on every shot.   That's really helped so far.   It's just so easy to, when you mis‑hit a shot or miss a putt, you start to not really doubt yourself right away, but after a while if you're not making putts or anything, then doubt does creep in.   Confidence is huge for me this year.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT