WEGMANS LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 16, 2014
Gerina Piller
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   It's raining.   It's blowing, and you go bogey free.   How did you do it?  
GERINA PILLER:   Made a lot of par saves.   Just my putter was really good today and gave myself lots of opportunities, hit fairways, hit greens, and just grinded it out out there.  
   
 Q.   Martin is leading after Round 3.   You're in contention here on Sunday.   That's gotta be kind of a dream scenario?  
GERINA PILLER:   Yeah, it's pretty awesome.   I'm excited for him, more so for him.   He's been playing great golf, and what great news to be done and come to the scoring tent and someone say he's leading.   So just really excited that we're in this situation and just hope for the best tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Will you talk in the morning or how tomorrow's layout do you think?  
GERINA PILLER:   Will we talk?   I think so.  
   
 Q.   Like what time or kind of the‑‑  
GERINA PILLER:   Nothing will be different.   I usually talk to him in the morning when we wake up, and he sends me a text when he heads to the tee and vice versa.   He's actually really good about it.   I probably freak out more than he does, so he's probably going to be cool as a cucumber and I'm probably going to be stressing out all day tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Over yourself or him or both?  
GERINA PILLER:   Over him.   
   
 Q.   Will you follow his round during your round or will you wait till the end?  
GERINA PILLER:   I'm hoping that if I tee off maybe later than him, then they'll give me some good news tomorrow on the course.   
   
 Q.   Talk about finishing up strong there and just putting yourself in a good position for starting tomorrow.   
GERINA PILLER:   Yeah, it's been kind of a tough week for me this week.   Started out my swing has not felt really good at all, and I had a little panic session with my coach.   And just kind of‑‑ just wanted to go out there and have fun, and when I have fun on the golf course and I enjoy being out there, that's when I play my best golf.   So that's just kind of what I've been doing, and God has a plan, and that's all I can do is hit the shots and everything else is going to play out.  
   
 Q.   One of the longest hitters on tour, though.   It's gotta fit your game pretty well here; right?  
GERINA PILLER:   Yeah, definitely.   18's a tough hole.   There are a couple of par‑3s that are pretty long, so being able to hit the ball high and far is definitely an advantage.  
   
 Q.   Little tester on 18 there to finish the round?  
GERINA PILLER:   Yeah.   That's not the only one of the round.   I had quite a few of those today.   It's just sometimes it's hard to get yourself to hit the putts when they're uphill and slow because you don't want that one coming back past the pin.   
You just gotta make those putts and just pretend like they're for birdie and hopefully they go in.  
   
 Q.   How‑‑ I mean when you‑‑ how much is the major thing and just that victory thing?   Does that enter the mind, and you know, do you worry that it'll maybe become a focus or consume you going into tomorrow or not?  
GERINA PILLER:   Actually had has up until this point, and now I'm just, you know, if I'm meant to win one, I'll win one.   And all I can do is control what I do and hit good shots.   
Other than that, that's what I'm going to worry about tomorrow is hit good shots and putting good strokes on it.  
   
 Q.   Is that a different approach?  
GERINA PILLER:   No.   I've always kind of had that approach to my golf game.   But lately I've gotten to where I've kind of pressed a little, and as we all know, if you push golf, it pushes back harder.   So just kind of taking that approach and just want to have fun with it.  
   
 Q.   Will you leaderboard watch at all tomorrow?  
GERINA PILLER:   Probably not.   I mean if I'm making birdies, I think that'll take care of itself.   So I'll just go out there and do what I've been doing.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT