JTBC FOUNDERS CUP
March 20, 2014
Gerina Piller
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Here with current leader, Gerina Piller.   Gerina, 66 to open up the week.   You have to be very, very pleased with your round.   Talk about how you did it.
GERINA PILLER:   Yeah.   I actually put some new clubs in the bag this week and a new putter, and I've always thought that I've hit the ball really well and just can't get anything rolling on the greens.   And today my putter was really hot, and gave myself opportunities.   And I just think everything today was good, off the tee, irons and chipping and putting.

Q.   All right.   Talk about the club change.   Is that the first you've made or are you more of a club changer on the fly?   How was that transition for you?
GERINA PILLER:   Yeah.   I'm not really much of a changer, especially‑‑ I will in the off season, but not the week off.   And I just went to Cool Clubs, and they just checked on my specs and kind of gave me an affirmation of what my clubs were.   I thought it was me, and it was actually my clubs, so I got that taken care of and I'm really confident and I feel good with all my clubs in the bag.

Q.   You have two Top 10s already this season.   Just talk about how confident you are with your game right now.   You just seem very, very confident, very at ease.   Talk about the state of your game right now.
GERINA PILLER:   Yeah, it feels good.   The more I can get in that position, obviously the more confidence I get, and so I just keep on reminding myself that I'm good enough to be out here and I have the shots and I just need to let myself do it.
(Break in audio)
           GERINA PILLER:   I think it's helped me.   Doesn't matter if I'm nervous or a lot of pressure.   I still know I can hit a good shot.

Q.   Did ending last year where you were so close, had a shot going into the final hole, did that make you hungrier or make you angrier?   How did that affect you going into this?
GERINA PILLER:   Well, I just knew that I just belong out here, and it gave me a lot of confidence.   I've only been playing golf for 14 years.   This is my 14th year, so where my game, I know how to hit the shots, so just my confidence is kind of lacking.   So the more I put myself in position, the more confidence I get, and I think that's where the key is is confidence.

Q.   What did they do to your clubs?   Was it a loft thing?
GERINA PILLER:   Shaft and head.   It's a completely new club.   I got a new 3‑wood, and I just put a 5‑wood in my bag to try it out. 
And back home I had some putters that I had TaylorMade make me and I just tried it out and worked with my coach, just a little tweak in my grip, and just feel good.   It's rolling really well.

Q.   Was Tuesday the first day you used them then? 
GERINA PILLER:   I've been using my putter for about almost two weeks, and my new clubs I hit them on Wednesday.

Q.   Wednesday.   Really?
GERINA PILLER:   Yeah.   I picked them up before the pro am.   Yeah, I really, really like them.

Q.   Yeah, I guess.   Who did you work with at cool clubs?
GERINA PILLER:   Chris Thomas.

Q.   You burst on to the scene at the LPGA championship.   How did that sort of elevate or bump up or speed up your goals having done that?   Did it take you to another level right away?
GERINA PILLER:   Absolutely.   I mean especially at that kind of course, and obviously it's a major.   I felt that, you know, I just kind of clunked along, and you're going to make a bad stroke and you're going to have bogeys, but it doesn't totally completely make you not in contention.   So especially that week.   I mean I think I was going‑‑ I was like 20 something going into the final round, and it's not like I teed it up thinking like, oh, I don't have a shot or anything like that, or I had to make up all this ground.   But I just went out there, and it's one of those things where you play well, the results are going to take care of themselves.

Q.   Did it change the way you viewed yourself?
GERINA PILLER:   Um, I don't think so.   If anything, like I said before, just it gave me confidence.   But golf's one of those things where you just‑‑ sometimes it just comes all together and sometimes it doesn't.

Q.   So what do you think it would take for you to finally be confident, to be the Gerina Piller that you know you can be?
GERINA PILLER:   Just doing what I did today, just keep myself up there on the leaderboard and put myself more in contention and not just coming back on‑‑ I think I've‑‑ my husband calls me a lurker.   Kind of like lurk around 20th or something and then Sunday I post a good round in the Top 10.   But I think maybe putting myself in that position before Sunday, so going into Sunday being higher than what I've been.

Q.   It's looking better and better.   Do you feel like it's better and better?
GERINA PILLER:   I do.   I feel like with my new swing coach, and I feel like I'm a lot more consistent and everything is just‑‑ it just feels better.   I wouldn't say it's easier, but it's easier than it was prior.

Q.   Who is your new swing coach?
GERINA PILLER:   Mike Wright.

Q.   Mike Wright? 
GERINA PILLER:   W‑R‑I‑G‑H‑T.

Q.   How long have you been working together?
GERINA PILLER:   We just finished a year.

Q.   And I walked in late.   What are the new clubs and what were you playing?
GERINA PILLER:   I had an old RBZ, and I just switched to the new JetSpeed, 3‑wood.   And then I had an Adams hybrid that was fairly old, and I really, really liked it, but I just wanted to get just a little better.   And so I switched to 5‑wood jet speed from TaylorMade.

Q.   Have you thought about international crown at all?   You're kind of one of the Americans right in the mix, I know.   A really high finish or a win would jump you into that.   You got your first taste of playing for team USA at Solheim.   Is that something you've thought, I really want to make this team?
GERINA PILLER:   I have thought about making the team.   I didn't know if it was in reach this year, but obviously play well enough, get a win, get my world ranking up, I think I will have a shot.

Q.   Right in the mix.   What would that mean to you coming off of a Solheim win?   You said it meant a lot to you, but to turn it around and kind of come out of nowhere if it you could get a spot?
GERINA PILLER:   Anytime I can represent my country, I think that just hits a soft spot in my heart and I would just be ecstatic if I was given the opportunity.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT