HSBC WOMEN'S WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
February 28, 2019
Gerina Piller
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Back in action as a mom.  How did it go out there today?  
GERINA PILLER: Today was definitely a struggle.  Not the start I would hope for.  It was hard.  I think just leaving my son for the first time, and so I didn't know how that was going to go over.  Just getting back in the competitive vibe has definitely been foreign.  But you know, I hit some good shots out there and glad to be back and hopefully continue what I did on the back nine tomorrow.   
 Q.  Do you feel a void almost, because he's not -- AJ's not here with you?  Easy to get back into competition mode?  
GERINA PILLER: I mean, I don't know if -- I don't know if a void would probably be the right word, but definitely like it is odd not having him around and -- because I did that for -- I've done it for ten months now, and I've done a lot more momming than I did golfing.   
So to leave him at home, has definitely been a change but it's been good.  It's been good.  My first week back, I'm able to come out by myself and do what I've got to do to get prepared and know what I need to work on for Phoenix.   
 Q.  For sure.  How has Martin's support been as you've geared up for your return to action?  
GERINA PILLER: He's been amazing, and not to mention my sponsors, they have been amazing, as well.  Super supportive, and I can't ask for better support team.  Martin has always been, you know -- his love is not definitely dependent on my golf game, and he always makes that very clear.   
So it's pretty special to have that, and you know, it definitely putts it in perspective that, you know, he doesn't care what I shoot.  He cares, but he doesn't care, and same thing with AJ.  Like he doesn't know what a bogey is.  He doesn't know anything.  He just wants to know where I am and when he gets to eat next.   
So I think it definitely keeps perspective, but he's been an amazing support.   
 Q.  With how things ended last year, Martin finishing just outside the Top-125 on the PGA TOUR FedExCup standings, did you give him any advice or words of encouragement as he looked to this year?  
GERINA PILLER: I mean, we talked about it, and I mean, we've -- I mean, I was in a situation where not necessarily similar to that, but I was a captain's pick on Solheim Cup, and we talk about that, and it's like, okay, you know, you don't want to have to rely on a captain's pick, but you had the same amount of time as everybody else.  So if you have to rely on a captain's pick, it's not like your own fault, but you've had ample time to play good golf to get up in the standings.   
And so, you know, he was really upset with the way he finished.  I think his last tournament, I think he missed the cut, and you know, he got bumped out to 126 and he was upset.  I said, you know what -- not saying it in a mean way -- but don't define your season on this last tournament because you could have made one more put back in January or October, and don't beat yourself up over this just because that was your last tournament and you missed the cut.  You had plenty of time to make enough money, make enough points, and so I think that definitely has helped.   
When he goes through things like that, I think it also helps me.  Like he grows, and I grow, because it's just a learning experience and we both get to do it together.   
 Q.  How has he been as a dad?  
GERINA PILLER: He's been amazing, yeah.  Like he is so excited to do everything.  We were in the hospital from Thursday to Tuesday, and I didn't change a diaper until we got home on Tuesday.  He's always been, you know, he may not know how to do things but he's not shy of learning or jumping right in there.   
So he's been amazing.  I know AJ just loves him to death, and it's awesome to see your husband be a dad and just be a family.  It's really special.   
 Q.  Playing with Criste in the same group, did you talk about babies the whole round or strictly the game?  
GERINA PILLER: A little bit here and there.  I think we both kind of got out of the gate a little rough, so I don't think it was all, oh, we're hitting fairways and greens, let's just have like a little chat.  We were grinding it out.   
But I've talked to her, the time that I had off.  She came and saw AJ the week he was born.  So kind of having that support team, we bounce things off each other.  Obviously she's more seasoned than watching kids than I am, but hopefully I'll be able to give her some pointers.   
 Q.  And outlook for the rest of the week?  
GERINA PILLER: Just have fun and not really -- just focus on the process and not really worry about the outcome.  I've got to give myself a little credit and not be so hard on myself.  You know, I expect as a competitor to come back out here and pick up right as a left off, and you know, it has been, I don't even know how long, like 15 months since I played an LPGA event.   
Just kind of give myself some slack and just really kind of hone my game and really realize -- work on what I need to work on, and it's a good test to take to the West Coast Swing and just kind of get a feeler of where I am as far as like where my golf game is and not compare it to girls that have been playing straight for a while, and they have been playing in Australia, but kind of just where my game is in comparison so where I want it to be.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT