U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 25, 1997
Joel Hirsch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOEL HIRSCH:   Thanks, Les.  Yes, I've probably played here about 30 times over the years. And most recently, obviously, Monday and Tuesday this week, but I played in May, and I've got a number of good friends here, and they were kind enough to invite me out through the years.  And, it's a terrific venue. Really looking forward to the week. 
 
JOEL HIRSCH:   Well, Tiger would say--  Now, Joel, let's see, my aspirations this week, I'd say, are next year, the low amateur is exempt for next year, so that's aspiration No. 1.  And No. 2 is -- would be a top-25 finish, which is also an exemption for next year.  
 

Q.  Joel, what about your practice time today, is that something that sort of just fell in your lap and what was the --
 

Q.  Who put it together?  You have Gordon Brewer, Clayton Cole, the pro at Cherry Hills, and Arnold?
 
JOEL HIRSCH:   Well, I should say -- I'd like to say Arnold gave me a call and begged me for the game, but what really happened was I called Arnold about four weeks ago, and I asked him if we could get together for a practice round, which we typically have done since Cherry Hills and the U.S. Senior Open at Cherry Hills.  I wanted to ask Arnold for a practice round for the Senior British Open that was going to be played in July.  So, I'm playing a practice round at Cherry Hills late one afternoon, and no one -- I mean, virtually no one's on the golf course.  I tee off on the first hole, and I get about to the fourth hole and I see a lot of people, and I figure it's probably Arnold, and sure enough, it was.  So that's kind of when we struck up our friendship because I saw him there.  He asked me to join him for a few holes, which I did, and then I asked  him if we could play this practice round, which I had been looking at -- looking for him for the past day or two to ask him that question.  So it was a good opportunity.  And since that time, whenever I play the Senior -- U.S. Senior Open or a British Senior Open, Arnold's been kind enough to play a practice round with me.  So, it's -- I mean, he's very gracious, he's awfully sweet, and there's no one I would rather play with, so it's a real treat.  That's what this whole week is about.  I mean, for an amateur, I mean, there's really nothing like it.  It's a USGA event, which is, obviously, a premier event for professional or amateur.  You know, an enormous amount of work goes into this, a USGA event, and it's especially great for an amateur, because the family, you don't get to play in many pro tournaments as a senior.  You're really only allowed to play two, which is the U.S. Senior Open, and the British Senior Open.  You can't play PGA Senior Tour event.  You know, you're prohibited from doing that, and I think that's a good rule, mind you.  But, you only get two chances.  So, to be one of 3,000-plus that have made the 156 final field is a great thrill.  That's a long answer to that question. 
 

Q.  Joel, you just came back from the British Amateur?
 
JOEL HIRSCH:   Yes, sir. 
 

Q.  You're just back from the British Amateur and Sandwich.  What do you bring back from the game that you have to play over there that you can incorporate here or vice versa.  I mean, how do you sort of mesh those two things?
 
JOEL HIRSCH:   Well, you really have to -- it takes a few -- a week or two after you come back. Because you really -- you're playing a much different game over there.  I mean, you've been there, and you see the type of shots one has to play there.  You know, everything is low, everything is back in your stance, so you get here, and you -- you're not driving shots into the green, you're floating them in.  So, you really have to move the ball a little more forward. You've got to make a lot of adjustments, so typically when you come back to the States, it takes a week or two to get your game in shape.  But I've had a week or two, and it's getting in shape, so I'm looking forward to a good week this week.  
 

Q.  How would you compare this course with Canterbury?  I mean, you had a good year at Canterbury.
 
JOEL HIRSCH:   Right, I think -- well, there are two pre-World War designs which are my favorite type of courses.  I'm on the advisory panel for Golf Digest top 100 courses, and if you take a look at the top 20 golf courses, I think they're only two pre-World War designs in Golf Digest top 20.  So, Canterbury I think was a terrific venue. It was a great old golf course, like Olympia Fields North is.  But, the rough is higher here.  The greens will be faster here.  Canterbury wasn't considered -- it wasn't being considered for a U.S. Open.  Olympia Fields is.  So, this course is going to play hard.  It's playing harder in the practice rounds, and it's not going to get any easier when the flag goes up Thursday.  Both great venues, though, marvelous course. 
 

Q.  Joel, how much of a scare was the fever that you suddenly had thrust upon yourself across the sea, and were there any residual after effects?
 
JOEL HIRSCH:   Well, I'm 100 percent right now.  I feel great, and I had 106 fever.  And it was -- I mean, it really was quite scary, but in those  situations, I mean, you're -- you say a couple prayers.  I never pray for myself.  I only pray for other people.  But, I tell you, when I had 106, I wasn't going to break that rule.  But I was thanking God on a regular basis for letting me get to this point.  So, I came back.  It's amazing how sick I was and how great I feel three weeks later.  I mean, it's incredible. 
 

Q.  Do you know what it was from?
 
JOEL HIRSCH:   It was an ecoli virus.  I don't know, something, water or something I ate or whatever.  And it got, you know -- the ecoli gets right in your bloodstream fast, and I was in -- I was in the hospital five days on intravenous antibiotics, and I -- after I got out of the hospital, I was on the antibiotic for another two weeks and just finished up Sunday.  And I just -- I really feel great.  Feel great that I don't have 106 temperature anymore, too. 
 

Q.  Joel, what do you think will be the hardest holes for the players?  You've played this course a number of times.  Looks like 3 or 12?
 
JOEL HIRSCH:   Well, you know, toward the end of the round, I mean, that 16, 17, 18 are just, you know, great finishing holes.  And, I think that, you know, in these tournaments, Hale Irwin - I was  listening to a piece last night on television - he said he wants to be in the hunt the last 9 holes.  So, the last 9 holes -- the last 3 holes are going to be a very important finish Sunday afternoon. But there -- you know, some guys go out the first 9 holes of the tournament.  You know, they'll shoot a 44 and, you know, they're finished, and it's a shame, but, you know, it's happened to everybody.  Other guys are going to play good for 18 holes, and they're not going to do well the second day.  So, the course is -- I mean, you've got 18 holes out there.  Any of them can really bite you, so I think you've got 18 tough golf courses.  The fellows that are fortunate enough to play well this week, I think are going to 16, 17, 18, I think are the great keys. 
 
JOEL HIRSCH:   I would say the weather forecast looks like it's going to be great, so the -- I'm thinking like 280 would be a sensational score here.  That would be my opinion. 
 

Q.  Joel, how do you think, in light of the way the game has changed in the last few years, how would this golf course hold up as an Open venue?
 
JOEL HIRSCH:   This would be a great Open  venue.  It's -- I mean, it's an enormously difficult golf course, and like some of the short holes, 11, I mean, it's just -- I mean, it's a marvelous short hole.  4, 5, I mean, these holes are just -- I mean, they're just great, great holes.  And, you know, they're birdie holes, really, but you can make numbers on any of those holes.  So, I think that an Open venue needs 18 real strong holes, and you certainly have them here. 
 
JOEL HIRSCH:   Thank you very much.  Thanks. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT