PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2010
Ryan Benzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Talk about your round today. You stayed pretty even after the start yesterday and again today had a couple birdies.   
 RYAN BENZEL: Yeah, I actually played pretty good today from late last night and today compared to the first round. I hit the ball better, therefore I couldn't get any putts to go in for two day, three days.  
  
  Q. What was your mentality coming in after the break yesterday and all the weather delays?  
 RYAN BENZEL: Before we started we knew we were only going to play four or five holes and fortunately for where we were going off the back side we were playing downwind holes. So I felt like I had an opportunity to make a couple birdies early on before the break. I made a birdie and a bogey and then it got and then we got stopped and fortunately for us the wind was down today so the golf course definitely played a little easier without the wind, but I felt like if I could just, I could play better than I played the first day, so that was my overall goal was to show that I could play a little better than that and I did and unfortunately I did play better but I didn't make many putts, so that hurt.   
  
  Q. After playing better the second day what can you take away from this experience here?  
 RYAN BENZEL: It's just been a fun week. The golf course is fun. When people ask how hard it was I just say it was really fun to play, it was challenging, but I don't think it's the hardest golf course I've ever played, so probably need to putt better, I guess. And it's kind of one of those things where sometimes putts go in, sometimes they don't. It's frustrating, but I am going to work hard on my putting. I want to be more consistent with it and I want to be, I don't want to have the frustrating days anymore.  
  
  Q. Would you come back to Whistling Straits?  
 RYAN BENZEL: Absolutely. Absolutely. I would bring some guys back and play golf for a couple days, absolutely.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT