PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 2010
Ryan Benzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. How would you compare Whistling Straits to the Pete Dye course at French Lick?   
 RYAN BENZEL: Boy, they are both challenging golf courses. I really think that the Whistling Straits course is -- seems to be kind of more fair, more playable. It's set up harder for a major championship than French Lick was for PNC. But the fairways are wider here, the landing areas are bigger, the greens are bigger. There's less severe slopes coming off the fairways. I would think day-in, day-out this would be a little bit of an easier test but maybe not in a major championship.   
  
  Q. Can you take me through your round today?   
 RYAN BENZEL: Yeah, I made seven bogeys. I turned 74? 79. I made two bogeys on par 5s that just, they were bad. I laid up and it was -- I was laying up on 5 and I hit it in the water and made bogey. I was laying up good on 11 and hit in the bunker and made bogey.   
 So I mean, just two blown holes right there and I missed three good birdie opportunities on the back nine and I had three shots inside of ten feet and I missed every one of them.   
 So I feel like I played better than 79, seven bogeys, but I feel like I turned 74 into 79 today.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about representing your section of the PGA?   
 RYAN BENZEL: Yeah, I it's kind of fun actually. I know the section sent out an e-mail that went section-wide in the Pacific Northwest and all of the members got it, that I was in the PGA and watch for my name. Unfortunately they saw me shoot 79 today. But it's kind of fun to be the representative for the Northwest Section, and if I can continue doing it, that would be great.   
  
  Q. What experience does this give you, if any, and possibly lessen the pressure to perform well?   
 RYAN BENZEL: Well, you know, I mean, when you're talking about the PNC, I think I have pretty good expectations for myself. I feel like I can compete for the championship.   
 Out here, today, I really felt good about this week. I really enjoyed the golf course in practice rounds. I've been playing well. It played a little harder today with the wind, but, you know, I still have confidence that I can play. There are guys that are struggling -- I can come back and shoot even par tomorrow and make the cut.   
 It's definitely not over, but I definitely have -- playing out here, you just learn how to play and how to save yourself a little better when things aren't going very well, and you just can never let up, because we never know what's going to happen.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT