BRITISH MASTERS SUPPORTED BY SKY SPORTS
October 1, 2017
Florian Fritsch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Bogey-free 63, you must be very pleased with that?  
FLORIAN FRITSCH: I'm absolutely flattered, speechless, is what I mean.  We talked about this at the beginning of this week to a few of my colleagues.  We're looking at a really strong field.  The British Masters seems to have really drawn a few of the world's best, and I mean, to be around the first two or three is really thrilling for me, definitely thrilling.  I think that's my best finish so far in my career.   
 Q.  What was going right for you?  
FLORIAN FRITSCH: I just got the putter hot.  My driver wasn't that good but I was really lucky, I guess, with all the rain and all the loads of spectators that we've been having.  We had a lot of tramples ground and rough next to the semi, so I've drawn a few lucky lies and I guess that's what you need when you have such rounds.   
The conditions that we've been having with the wind towards the end, and the golf course set up as it is, I think you're going to make a mistake every now and then.  But I guess I got lucky, every now and then, as I just said, I drew a good lie and when I was struggling for par, I holed a good putt and I had a good short game.   
 Q.  Huge Race to Dubai points might ease the pressure a little bit.  
FLORIAN FRITSCH: Hugely.  Hugely.  I was looking at Challenge Tour for next year.  I wasn't even sure what kind of category I would have had, and I think that will change dramatically now.   
Again, we still have a lot of players out there sitting at minus 14, 13, 15, whatever I have.  So we'll see where I actually will finish up.  Within these positions at the top, we're talking about a lot of points.  As of right now, I'm just very happy the way I handled myself out there.  I'm very happy the way I played out there, and at the end of this day, maybe tomorrow morning, I am look at the rankings and see where I'm at.   
 Q.  Will you hang around, go to the driving range?  
FLORIAN FRITSCH: I guess I will definitely be in the clubhouse.  I'm going to have something to eat now, probably talk to my wife, see my kids on face time.  If I get a shot at playing into a playoff, definitely I'm up for that.  So far my record on Challenge and European Tour isn't the greatest, so I definitely would like to have a shot at changing that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT