BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 22, 2017
Florian Fritsch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Great round 69 today.  How was that for you?  
FLORIAN FRITSCH: Quite happy about that.  Usually this is a very special tournament for me.  I've been playing the BMW International Open since 2004, and as I am originally from here, I usually meet a lot of people that I've known when I grew up as a junior.   
So this is very special and as it is special to me, I'm usually a little bit more nervous than I am in other tournaments.  Obviously playing with Ernie Els and Thorbjørn Olesen, I've played with them a few times.  This isn't more, I wouldn't say routine, but not up to par, as it was, playing with a four-time Major Champion.  That was very special.   
I guess after a few holes when I got going a little bit, too, I loosened up a little bit, talked to Ernie.  He was so receptive, and he was answering questions and talking to me, too.  That is really great.  I mean, he could have just talked down the fairway talking to Thorbjørn and leave me outside but didn't at all.  That was very special and obviously I'm very happy about the way I scored today.   
 Q.  Did he give you any good tips out there?  
FLORIAN FRITSCH: Just to learn.  I mean, you've heard it probably so many times but he just told me, look at every chance and get out here to learn to get better.  Usually in my old beliefs, I thought, okay, you reach a point and you stayed and tried to optimise it.  But he's like a guy that seems to be pushing forward, always try to learn.   
I guess I kind of thought about it myself today during the round and even though we might have heard so many things over our lifetime by now, sometimes it's good to have somebody to mention a thing or two to get it back into our conscience.  And so I guess that was good for me.   
 Q.  Going back to your 69, what were the key points for you today?  
FLORIAN FRITSCH: I guess the three birdies that I made in a row to get me into a couple figures under par.  Usually playing in a situation in this tournament, I'm more like trying to, due to the nervousness that I experience, I try not to make as many dark numbers as possible.  But I guess it gave me some momentum.   
I played reasonable golf I suppose.  I gave myself a lot of chances.  I made two outside chances for birdie, so that was good.  I take that was a bonus with me.  But I also had a lot of other chances for birdie.  That shows me that if I play the same way tomorrow, there is some potential left.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT