ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 8, 2016
Florian Fritsch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Great conditions today on the hardest of courses.  How do you feel it went?  
FLORIAN FRITSCH: Definitely, I think we've got really lucky.  I came here this morning and I was freezing.  I felt like it was the coldest day out of all of them so far.   
We just breakfast, warmed up, and I felt like the wind was moving in a very preferable direction and it started dying down towards my tee time.  It was nice to see that we had some flat-calm conditions for some parts of the round.   
Some of the holes coming in were kind of tricky, especially 16 being 250 yards playing into the wind, so that was kind of a beast today I guess, just like 18, I played it as a three-shot hole, even though I hit a good drive down the middle.  I just felt like with the OB very close and the bail-out to the right wasn't very favorable.  I ended up playing it as a par 5.   
I got the putter going today.  I holed a lot of putts.  I guess that's what you have to do around here.  I guess Alex Noren mentioned something similar when he shot his 8-under.  I don't think you go around here shooting 8-under without holing any putts, so that was the key for today.   
 Q.  How are you feeling for tomorrow?  
FLORIAN FRITSCH: Anxious.  I was in a similar position last year, and I think -- I don't know how many strokes I'm out, maybe three or four, so it's pretty similar to what I've had last year.  I've done all right last year.  I just hit a couple errant shots coming in.  I feel like I want to do a little bit better and maybe you never know what happens coming down the last three holes, so I'm looking forward to that.   
 Q.  Is the start of the day important for you, because you birdies straightaway three holes in a row today?  
FLORIAN FRITSCH: That was nice.  In the back of my mind, I was thinking a little about the cut, as well.  Coming on to Carnoustie, anything can happen at any time.  To birdie three in a row out of the gates is nice.  You can take some pressure off and focus more in the other direction in terms of, okay, it seems to be going; I'm putting well and let's focus more and try to make more birdies rather than trying to salvage par.   
That kind of allowed me to do it and I've done well coming through 15, 16, 17, 18, birdied three.  So that kind of made me feel very comfortable, especially coming in the last few holes.  I don't think I was barely ever as calm as I was during those holes being in the position that I was.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT