ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 3, 2015
Florian Fritsch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Wonderful round here, third round at Kingsbarns, you started slowly on the front nine, but you stepped up on the second, the back nine?  
FLORIAN FRITSCH: Definitely, at the beginning I was probably a bit more worried about maybe making the cut because this is a very big tournament, especially for me with the money that can be won and the position that I'm in, so this is definitely something that was kind of important to me.   
A couple choices were made due to that situation over what I would probably usually do but that's what tournament golf does to you at times.  I got more and more comfortable towards the end.   
On the back nine I felt like I had a little bit more control.  The golf course is very open.  You can't really lose a ball and that is definitely something that I enjoy that I like and I guess most golfers like.  It loosens you up despite the situation.  I hit a couple good putts and ended up rolling in a few birdies and an eagle on the second.  That was a little extra.   
Holed out a few long ones, and yeah, only until the end when John Daly come into the recorders office and told me I shot a 64, I wasn't aware of that.   
 Q.  Did it help to be a little bit more relaxed in your group?  
FLORIAN FRITSCH: Big time, it's huge.  That to me is the absolute key.  If you're as calm as you are in any other golf round that you play maybe at home or a private golf course in a private round, that is huge.   
I guess some players maybe need this atmosphere to get even better, really competitive, and this very exciting atmosphere to me.  I enjoy it when it's like really calm.  I enjoy it when I just play by myself in the morning, maybe in the first tee time of a tournament round and nobody is out there; and you put your signature on the scorecard with a given number, that's what I enjoy the most.   
But obviously in order to keep my card and keep this going as a living, I need to get more comfortable with the situation that I will be in tomorrow.  I guess tomorrow will be a good chance for me to learn and I will try to look at the score as a secondary thing and not take it too seriously.   
 Q.  Are you going to enjoy the scenery and play a relaxed final round?  
FLORIAN FRITSCH: Certainly, certainly.  I think what I'm going to try to do is get more into the team competition that we have going, try to maybe have a good run at it with Michael.  He's been doing great.  I think golf really suits his game and he hits a low drive and in Germany it wouldn't really go anywhere but on the ground that we have it runs.   
We have a good chance in the team competition, as well, and I think that's going to be what I'm going to focus on because it helps me to be on a team working with a guy.  The experience he brings with football, that will be a big help, a big aid for tomorrow.   
 Q.  How is it for you traveling to events, not flying?  
FLORIAN FRITSCH: My life is probably less tough than a guy who plays on The European Tour coming from Australia, coming from India.  Those guys in the end probably travel a lot more than I do.  They have got to jump from -- a tournament is finished, jump into a bus and get to the airport.  I think that is quite stressful and tough, as well, I can just throw it into the trunk and go.   
I think this is kind of very comfortable and I enjoy that and I get to see places that I've never really seen before and I try to make the most out of it.   
To be honest right now, I don't really have the feeling that it really bothers me too much.  The only thing that I guess I'm missing is I would like to end and a little bit more time with my kids, but I think that's the same for any other professional out there.  As my kids are that young, it's a new situation that I still have to get accustomed to.   
Driving around Europe, living in Germany is pretty central so I can get anywhere within a day's drive where we go.  If you look at the schedule where we play and where I live, I would think just off the top of my head, Milan, Vienna, Munich, Holland, Denmark, Paris; I mean, half of my schedule is within five hours of driving.   
So I don't think it's that bad.  I seem to be lucky enough for that not to stress me too much physically in terms of that my body is suffering.  I can still compete.  A lot of people have told me that I would probably be even better if I flew, but to be honest, doesn't seem to hurt my mind.  Seems to be fine.  I don't know if I could really play that much better if I would fly.  In the end, if I sit five hours at the gate and at the plane and at the shuttle to the golf course to the hotel, or if I sit five hours in my car, it doesn't really make a difference in the end.   
 Q.  If you have a funny situation this year being so much on the road?  
FLORIAN FRITSCH: Definitely, I booked a ferry going from Tangier to Montpellier coming from Morocco and I guess I missed the detail of when we are arriving.  So I think we left in tan engineer in the morning at one o'clock and it was supposed to arrive on that day at 11 o'clock.   
So I was sitting there at ten o'clock the next morning getting ready to disembark and all I could see around was water and I could not see us disembarking in an hour.  In the end I missed the day we would disembark in Montpellier, it was like the next day and not that day.  So that was certainly a surprise that I wasn't I guess looking forward to and that I enjoyed.  That was a fun thing.  That was all right.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT