DIAMOND RESORTS TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 19, 2021
Brian Baumgartner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Thank you for being here.  First time here.  Tell us a little bit about the tournament, what you've heard in the past and what you're looking forward to this week?
 BRIAN BAUMGARTNER:   You know, basically I'm looking forward to dominating again.  It's kind of what I do, is I dominate whatever event I enter.
 Aside from that, no, I'm really -- I've had the opportunity -- in fact, I was a good luck charm.  I think in the course of one year I played one Marina Alex and Angela Stanford and Lydia Ko, all winners.  So I -- basically you want to play with me.  That's what I'm saying.
 You want to play with me and then I dominate.
 Q. You had a pretty good practice round today.  Tell us about that?
 BRIAN BAUMGARTNER:   You know, I want to make jokes, but the reality is I am originally from Atlanta, Georgia, and was a Braves fan growing up.  They are older than me, all of them, so I used to watch John Smoltz and Greg Maddux and Tom Glavine pitch for the Braves.
 For me, being a sports fan, being involved in this event and events like this, is being able to just go out and hang out and play a practice round with those guys.  It's a huge pleasure for me.
 Q. You grew up a big sports fan.  What's it like that sports athletes, pro athletes want to meet you now?
 BRIAN BAUMGARTNER:   It's crazy.  You know, I know he's not playing here, but a number of years ago before the championships and the MVP awards, I was in Lake Tahoe playing in a celebrity event.  I was in the practice putting green before and I hear, Mr. Mr. Baumgartner, Mr. Baumgartner, and turn around and it's Steph Curry, and he introduces himself to me.  I play for the Warriors.  I was like, No, I know.  I watched you at Davidson and the NCAA tournament.
 That's just a huge pleasure for me, getting to know a bunch of guys and calling them friends now.  So it's great.
 Q. How did you get into today's group with Smoltz and Glavine?  Were you in the right place, right time?  Was it predetermined?
 BRIAN BAUMGARTNER:   No, I've become friends with those guys now, so I play a decent amount of golf with them, especially surrounding events like this.
 Q. I'm a huge fan of The Office.  I got to ask, you got the golf episode where you, Ed Helms, and John Krasinski go out there, the acey, ducey, the bingo, bango, bongo and any of that stuff going on out there today?
 BRIAN BAUMGARTNER:   You know, there was some of that stuff going on out there today.  Here is the thing.  There is the craps table, right?  That's the middle of the craps board, right, the crazy weird bets.  And in truth, I don't normally play that, but we are doing some greenies and sandies and that garbage.
 But let's just say I'm leaving here today with more money in my pocket than when I arrived.  So, again, I dominate.
 Q. Also, final season of the office there is a made-up number called a keleven.  What does that look like and were there any on your scorecard today?
 BRIAN BAUMGARTNER:   There are usually a few kelevens on my scorecard, to be sure.  I just try to make a few birdies here and there as well.
 Look, I'm well aware.  This event has an amazing reputation.  I just got here last night.  I'm so excited to be here.  I am aware that I'm not here to win.  My mindset is that I'm going to win.  I'm aware that that's not why I'm here.
 I just try to have a good time and enjoy the camaraderie with the guys, and in this case, the gals.
 Q. If I could ask you about the gals.  I know you had the chance to play in an LPGA pro-am a couple years ago.  What are your thoughts about playing with the world's best female golfers and seeing them up close and personal?
 BRIAN BAUMGARTNER:   You know, I am super excited.  And through playing with them both through PXG, Lydia Ko, and at the Kia Classic I think that you're referring to, I played with a couple of them.  It's so great to see how well they execute their shots, particularly approach shots around the green.
 It's just super impressive.  I played once with Lydia Ko, and there were eyebrow raises happening not in front of her, but around her that she was going to shoot 59 that day.  I think she had nine birdies in the first 12 holes.  Just crazy good.
 So I'm super excited to be out there with them and just will try my best to have fun and not get in their way.
 Q. I know you're pretty big on Cameo.  What's the most common request you get and the craziest one?
 BRIAN BAUMGARTNER:   Most common request would be birthdays, and craziest, that someone would give me the high honor of proposing to the person they want to spend the rest of their life with.
 That one, and I will say that one that maybe I enjoy a little bit more -- that one feels a little pressure -- but announcing the gender of a baby.  That's pretty cool.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT