NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: KINGS v DEVILS
May 29, 2012
Dustin Brown
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Dustin Brown. 
DUSTIN BROWN:   'Came in, some of the younger guys started to relax, play a little bit. 

Q.   How did he react for you? 
DUSTIN BROWN:   Came in, keeping guys honest.   There's games where I thought I didn't play my best.   He brought attention to it pretty quickly.   That goes a long way, whether you're a young player or older player.   When you have a guy that's pushing you to be better, not just you but everyone, it goes a long way.   Maybe helping you look at yourself in the mirror. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
DUSTIN BROWN:   It's definitely new for me.   This whole thing is new for me.   I've never been past the first round.   For me personally, it's pretty simple.   I keep my head down, keep playing, working hard. 
The media attention is part of playing in the Stanley Cup finals.   As a player, like I said, for me, it's pretty easy to just put my head down and work. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
DUSTIN BROWN:   It's exciting to be here.   But I want to just say it's more than that.   I mean, it's exciting to be here.   At the same time we don't want to just be here.   There's a balance that you have to find of being excited to be here and being ready to work. 

Q.   What do you have to do to beat them? 
DUSTIN BROWN:   From a hockey standpoint, I think it's important, again, our forecheck is probably the key to our game.   To follow that up is getting through the neutral zone successfully against them is probably a key.   If we can get through there, we can get on the forecheck. 
Again, our forecheck has probably been the reason we've been so successful.   We need to play like we have been the first three series.   Top to bottom, we've had contributions from everyone. 

Q.   Mean anything to you to be going up against an accomplished goalie?
DUSTIN BROWN:   As a player, it doesn't probably have as big an impact on the skaters.   I mean, probably have to ask Quicky about it.   Probably pretty special for Quicky to have a matchup against somebody like Martin Brodeur, considering his career and what he's done in this league.   Goaltender is an interesting position because it's probably the one one‑on‑one matchup you can really isolate.   I'm sure it's special for Quicky. 

Q.   The penalty kill has been so aggressive in the playoffs and successful.   Has it been that way all year?   If not, when did you go to a more aggressive style?
DUSTIN BROWN:   Our PK, it was good all year.   I don't know what we finished at the end of the year.   Top five, I think.   I don't think we had that many shorthanded goals. 
We made a couple adjustments going into Vancouver, playing a wedge as opposed to three across.   It will obviously be a little more aggressive in the neutral zone and up‑ice with the way the support works. 
I think our up‑ice, how we defend the rush, has allowed us to maybe create a few more turnovers, get more opportunities.





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT