NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: KINGS v COYOTES
May 21, 2012
Dustin Brown
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Dustin Brown.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
DUSTIN BROWN:   From a team standpoint, we definitely want to play better than we did in Game4.   We've been playing pretty good hockey.   We're a confident group.   We all believe we can be better in Game5.   
It's keeping your head down and working, really.   There's always areas of improvement.   Even prior to losing Game4, we had areas we could have got a lot better and we didn't.   So that was the result we got in Game4.   
Now it's a matter of rebounding.   No one said the series was going to be‑‑ three games is not a series.   
   
 Q.   You were out there before anyone else today.   What was the point of emphasis out there for you today?   
DUSTIN BROWN:   I mean, this time of year it's getting what you need.   It was an optional day.   I thought I would go out there and work on tips because I've had a lot of opportunities to tip pucks and I've been missing them.   You only get one or two opportunities a game to do that and I just wanted to work on it.  
   
 Q.   Were you getting enough traffic in front of Smith?   
DUSTIN BROWN:   We had some traffic, but probably not enough.   It's the forwards' job to get there.   There's a few chances we had or shots we took, you know.   When you're at the blueline shooting the puck, you have to have someone at least around the net.   
It's a collective, five‑man‑group type thing.   You have to get guys there.   I think we can do a better job.   He's a big goaltender, looking over top.   It's hard to really take his eyes away, per se.   If he has to look over top, take a quick shot, you never know.  
   
 Q.   To adversity in the series, is that in any way a good thing?  
DUSTIN BROWN:   I think this team has handled adversity pretty well all year considering the type of year we had.   This time of year it's about sticking together.   We lost one game.   It's a matter of rebounding.   
   
 Q.   Does this have the same feel, going on the road up 3‑1?  
DUSTIN BROWN:   We worked really hard to give ourselves this advantage early in the series.   We let an opportunity slip by by not capitalizing on home ice.   Now it's up to guys to rally their own games, rally collective, go to Phoenix with the attitude that we're coming out of there with a win.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, Dustin.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT