NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: KINGS v BLACKHAWKS
May 17, 2014
Dustin Brown
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Dustin.   
   
 Q.   Dustin, does it matter that it's this team waiting for you tomorrow?   
DUSTIN BROWN:   I don't think going into the playoffs you're looking forward or you have a team you want to play.   It's just kind of how it works out.   Generally the best teams are playing this time of year.   They have been the best team for the last couple.   
You know what they did last year.   I think the Central Division, even though they finished third, I think a lot of guys league‑wide understood they're still a top team.   
   
 Q.   Does it matter that they ended your season last year?  
DUSTIN BROWN:   I think each year is different.   We've been through it before.   I think what happens is the more you play teams in the playoffs the more you generally don't like each other.   
Last year they definitely had our number, dominated the series.   That's not something you think about now, but it's something in the back of your head.   
   
 Q.   Two series going to a seven, then having to hop on a flight for an afternoon game, how much of a grind has that been for you guys?   
DUSTIN BROWN:   It's kind of what you make of it really.   If you think it's really difficult to travel, you're tired, you're going to be tired.   If you kind of just ignore it...   
82 games is a grind, too.   You just have to manage it as a team, as individuals, get yourself ready to go.   At this time of year it's about finding the next level.   
   
 Q.   Now that you're here, does it feel like having the fast‑paced schedule, you're able to carry your momentum over easier than having more time off?  
DUSTIN BROWN:   I think the more time off you can get, it's probably the best.   Our 2012 run we probably had the most days off in history, just the way we closed out the series.   
I think from my standpoint you want to keep on playing.   It's kind of like the regular season.   When you have a four‑ or five‑day break, it feels good, but you kind of just want to just play every other day.  
   
 Q.   Bet it felt good to have to practice this morning.   
DUSTIN BROWN:   Yeah, I mean, with the schedule the way it is, a 2 o'clock game, find some ice time this morning, which is fine.   Like I said, it's what you make of it really.   It is what it is.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT