NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: KINGS v BLACKHAWKS
June 3, 2013
Dustin Brown
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Is your anxiety level going up a little bit?  
DUSTIN BROWN:   We were down 2‑0 against St.Louis.   The only difference is we're in the Western Conference Finals now.   With each round there's a little more pressure.   It's a matter of handling that individually and collectively.   
We're back on home ice where we've played very well this year.   Today we looked at some video, what we can do better.   It's a matter of executing.   
   
 Q.   Does that help that you've been here before?   
DUSTIN BROWN:   I think you can draw on the fact that we've been in this situation before in the sense that the series is long from over for our mindset.   It's about playing the game.   I mean, we try to cut it in half tomorrow night.   
We're not worried about Game4, Game5.   We're thinking about tomorrow night, your first shift, first play you have to make, then you go from there.   
   
 Q.   Talk about what you need to do better tomorrow?   
DUSTIN BROWN:   I think neutral zone.   We had a lot of turnovers in the neutral zone.   Chicago is a very good checking team.   They're not an overly physical team, though.   Their transition game is probably one of the better transition games in the league.   
Making them go 200 feet for all their chances will go a long way.   I think that will come out in the game.   
   
 Q.   You have played more games at this stage than you did a year ago at this point.   What is the fatigue level like?   
DUSTIN BROWN:   I think it's fair to say we're probably not as fresh as we were last year.   We had four, five days off between every series.   We haven't played as many games as this time last year.   
At the same time, this time of year, when you're going through it, you're not thinking, Oh, I'm tired.   You're reloading, getting ready to go again.   
It's more of a mental, getting your head wrapped around it, than it is physically, I think.   
   
 Q.   What changes when you come home?   How are you different?   
DUSTIN BROWN:   It's hard to say.   We played better hockey at home.   I think part of it is we get on the forecheck better.   When you look around the league, this is probably the one year, I'm not sure of the percentages, but I'm sure it's pretty high, league wide, it's close to 70%, I think.   
Teams feed off their energy at home.   Playing in front of our fans is great.   Just getting off to a good start.   
   
 Q.   Foli seems to be pretty detail oriented, too.   
DUSTIN BROWN:   I think he does the little things pretty well for a young guy.   He's not the biggest, most filled‑out guy.   That will come with him.   
The one thing that stands out with Foli for me is his willingness to battle it out along the walls.   Sometimes you don't see it in a smaller, younger guys.   He's shown he's willing to do that.   That goes a long way in progressing as a professional.   That's probably the hardest part of the game.   It's the will on the wall.   
   
 Q.   Tomorrow will be the third playoff game in four nights.   What do you do physically different to corral the energy?  
DUSTIN BROWN:   Well, a day like today, again, about getting your rest.   It's been a long couple days playing back‑to‑back, the travel.   Getting back to square one today, then tomorrow you start focusing on the mental side of things, getting yourself reloaded.   
   
 Q.   As captain of this team, you have to deal with a myriad of problems.   Have you talked to Kopitar a little bit, talk to him about how frustrated he is, what he can do to get out of his slump?  
DUSTIN BROWN:   I think it's pretty fair to say as a line we're collectively in a slump.   We looked over some video today.   We know what we need to do better.   It's getting into their offensive zone, our spacing is pretty significant.   It's hard to play, especially against a team like Chicago.   They kind of have that man‑on‑man with an extra man in there.   When you don't have the spacing right, one guy eliminates the other guy, quick on the puck.   
Probably more importantly against Chicago, we need to have closer support in all three zones.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT