NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: KINGS v DEVILS
June 10, 2012
Dustin Brown
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Dustin Brown. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
DUSTIN BROWN:   That's ultimately what it comes down to this time of year, the team that finds the net.   Again, it's going to have to be everyone collectively.   It's not going to be one or two guys.   Obviously, there are players that are difference‑makers.   But, again, it comes down to sticking to the game plan.   As tired as we are, we all understand what we're playing for.   That's a pretty motivational boost. 

Q.   Are you talking out loud about shooting the puck a little bit more? 
DUSTIN BROWN:   I think it's a happy medium.   You don't want to be shooting the puck to shoot the puck, because Brodeur is going to knock it down, maybe even move it.   I think we need to shoot more, but I also think we need to be better at getting our shots through.   They had quite a few blocked shots, I'm not sure of the number, but we had some grade A opportunities that got blocked.   It's not an easy thing to get through, but we have to find a way. 

Q.   You were a team that earlier in the year struggled scoring.   You figured it out in the playoffs.   What do you need to do now?
DUSTIN BROWN:   I think we need to stick with it.   Marty is playing a pretty good series.   He made some pretty big saves, especially in Games 4 and 5 for them.   I think it's sticking with our system, making it harder on Marty. 
Our goal last night was guys getting in the net.   I don't think he really had a chance to see the shot.   Those are the types of goals and chances. 

Q.   You missed some shifts in the third period, mixing around lines. 
DUSTIN BROWN:   At that point you got to try to find something that's clicking.   We weren't clicking, whatever you want to call it. 
We have practice today.   I'm not sure what the lines are going to be, if things are going to stay the same.   The players have to adapt to the situation. 

Q.   Your team is still playing well.   You hit five posts in the last two games.   Is that the bottom line right now? 
DUSTIN BROWN:   I think breaks even out in the series.   Both teams get 'em.   Both teams get breaks that go against them.   We had a goal in Game3 that shouldn't have gone. 
I think all that stuff evens out.   It's more about playing the game, sticking with your system.   Again, I thought we can't worry about posts, missed calls, stuff like that.   You just got to keep your head down, keep working. 

Q.   Were you guys ready to play in Game4 or were you distracted? 
DUSTIN BROWN:   The first period, first five, ten minutes, we were ready to go.   It felt very similar to actually the Vancouver series, Game4, where we had a really good first period, didn't find a lead.   We kind of almost had a letdown after that. 
But I think, again, being in front of the home crowd's going to give us an extra boost in Game 6.   Again, I think guys will be a little more relaxed.

Q.   You talked about getting away from the game plan.   Can you elaborate on that. 
DUSTIN BROWN:   I think we're best coming through our neutral zone with short, hard plays.   You could see us start to stretch out a little bit more.   Against a team like Jersey, I mean, it's tough to stretch it out and get a forecheck just 'cause of puck placement.   If you get it behind the net, Marty is going to make a play.   You saw our spacing deteriorate a little bit. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, Dustin. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT