AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 18, 2001
Sabine Appelmans
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  What was the emotion after that last point? What went through your mind?
 
SABINE APPELMANS: Well, I was really looking forward to playing here.  I was really relaxed playing, trying not to think about it.  The last game I suddenly started thinking about it being my last match; then I got a little bit emotional.  You know, I was really happy but on the other hand, it's mixed feelings, the fact that it's going to be your last match.  
 
Q.  You look very relieved that that was a  --?
 
SABINE APPELMANS: Yeah.  Yes.  It was just something to remember, the last point you played.  I think it was a good point, she made a good passing.  So it was good.  
 
Q.  Sabine, why did you choose Australia to end your career?
 
SABINE APPELMANS: Well, I've had really good results here.  I really like the country.  I wanted to come one more time here and travel around a little bit also, see the country.  Yeah, it's just  -- it's been a really good place for me to play and come out.  I've always felt good here, so that's why I chose to come here. 
 
Q.  You're doing a bit a Tour around the country?
 
SABINE APPELMANS: Yes. 
 
Q.  Where are you going?
 
SABINE APPELMANS: We've already been to the Great Barrier Reef.  We're probably going to do the Great Ocean Road now, then we'll see.  We haven't booked anything for now.  We'll just see what we can do.  
 
Q.  What were the emotions? You said you got emotional in the last game.  What were the emotions? What were you thinking about?
 
SABINE APPELMANS: It's hard to say, just the fact, you know, just realizing that it's the last time, standing on a tennis court playing an official match.  It's just a strange feeling.  And also, and I think you can never prepare for it.  You never know.  You know, I was trying to look at this tournament as, you know, being really relaxed and enjoying it and stuff.  But I don't think you can prepare for playing your last match or your last game, you know.  
 
Q.  This is your twelfth consecutive Australian Open.  Is there one match that sticks in your mind?
 
SABINE APPELMANS: Well, the quarterfinals against Pierce in '97 was my best Grand Slam finish, and it was a match that was really close and I had my chances in that match.  But it was a very particular moment because for first time quarterfinals.  It was just a big thing also back home in Belgium.  It was, yeah, a big thing.  
 
Q.  Have you achieved what you set out to achieve when you first turned professional, do you think?
 
SABINE APPELMANS: Well, I think I gradually set my goals higher.  I was one of the first players in Belgium to really make it that far on the circuit, to make it high in the rankings.  I think my first goal was, you know, start to be in the  -- you know, being able to play for me was important, being a professional player.  Then top 100, top 50.  I've been top 20, and I think I can be really satisfied about my career and the way everything went, yeah.  
 
Q.  Sabine, the future of Belgium tennis is very strong?
 
SABINE APPELMANS: Yep.  
 
Q.  Are you proud of that? How have you contributed to it?
 
SABINE APPELMANS: Well, yeah, it's good to see that we have two very talented girls coming up, and it's good.  It's good for Belgium tennis.  I think the fact that Dominique and me were the first ones may help them in a way that, you know, they can set their goals and try to do better than us.  On the other hand, tennis has become much more professional and it's gotten a lot harder to start on the circuit.  But they're very talented, very good players.  So I think they'll come a long way.  
 
Q.  Are you right-handed at most things?
 
SABINE APPELMANS: I am right-handed at everything except tennis, yeah. 
 
Q.  So you only became left-handed because you wanted to get in the same group as your friend?
 
SABINE APPELMANS: Yep.  That's how it started, yep.  
 
Q.  What's the plans now for the rest of your life?
 
SABINE APPELMANS: Well, there's, yeah, quite a few plans.  I'm going to start working for television a little bit and then I'd like  -- I would like to have a family also and enjoy life also.  Well, I've done that so far, but it's gonna be different.  
 
Q.  Is that television commentary?
 
SABINE APPELMANS: Well, yeah and presenting.  Yep.  
 
Q.  You said,  "We," are travelling.  I was wondering, who is the we?
 
SABINE APPELMANS: Oh, my husband and I.  (Laughing.) You just wanted to make sure? Okay, good.  
 

FastScripts by ASAP Sports…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT