U.S. OPEN
September 1, 1995
Sabine Appelmans
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Did you ever feel -- I mean, 1 and 1, was it as overwhelming as the score indicates
or...
 
 SABINE APPELMANS: Well, I think she played a really good match today. I think I made
far too many errors today to make a better score. I had really hoped I was playing well
here in the states. I played well in L.A., Toronto, and I really thought this match, I
mean, maybe today I could be a top player, but I mean, I was not even close there. She
made me run a lot and I think my approach was -- my tactic was to put a lot of pressure on
her; I didn't really do that. I think she made me run more than I made her run so it was
tough. But she played really well, good tennis. She got a lot of balls back; some nice
forehand winners down the line, dropshots she got. I mean, she was running so well. So... 
 
Q. She always seems to play well here, is there something about her game that fits
here?
 
 SABINE APPELMANS: I think especially on these hardcourts, it takes the spin a lot, and
I think that is why I made a lot of errors with my backhand also because I was always up
here (INDICATING UP ABOVE HER HEAD) I think that is why she plays well here because the
hardcourt takes the spin a lot. It is really tough -- I wanted to stay on the baseline and
try to hit the ball before it would bounce up, but that is hard to do. 
 
Q. Do you have any insight into why she struggled like when she goes two years without
a title or slips from No. 4 to No. 10; do you ever guess why?
 
 SABINE APPELMANS: Well, not really. I try to think about my own game. I don't -- I
mean-- 
 
Q. But I mean, is it hard to believe when you have trouble playing her?
 
 SABINE APPELMANS: Yeah, especially the way she played today. I mean, she can play so
good tennis and I mean, especially tactically she was playing really well, good slices,
very good forehands, forehands down the line. Her serve was good today. She made a few
doublefaults in the end, but still, I think his serve was good. It is just that --
especially, the matches she loses she has trouble with her serve and she starts doubting
about her game. I don't know why.  
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT