CANON GREATER HARTFORD OPEN
June 29, 2000
J.L. Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J.L. LEWIS:   Hit every fairway.  Made a few long putts, and just played pretty steady.  I only made one mistake, really on No. 11  -- we started on  --  well No. 2.  I had 75 yards to the hole and made bogey there.  But then other than that, pretty much got up-and-down on the par  3 on the front from the bunker.  I got up and down on 10 for par.  I got up-and-down on No. 13 for birdie.  2-putted 15.  Really, I was just off the green on  15 and 2-putted for birdie.  And then made a pretty long putt on 17.   Other than that, I hit it in the fairway.  I was trying to play smart, put the ball in position where I could get an opportunity for a birdie; and most of the day, I did that. 


Q.  Did you feel that you hit a groove early or did you warm up to the course as you were going along?

J.L. LEWIS:   Well, I was driving the ball good from the start, but I didn't really start scoring until the back nine, as far as making birdies.  I made one on 8.  I hit a 4-iron in there about 15 feet and made that.  That was pretty good.  But then on  -- I had a couple opportunities today with wedges where I could have made much better score than I did.  But other than that, I played good, I thought.  Pretty solid. 


Q.  How was the course? 

J.L. LEWIS:   The course is in great condition.  And there was no wind, you know.  And I think playing with Hal Sutton helped me a lot, because he hits it straight, and it's easy to get in a groove when you're playing with somebody that hits a lot of really good shots, you know.  Good tee shots.  Hit several  -- I think he only missed one fairway himself.  I think that helped me. 


Q.  Are conditions ripe for a low round out there? 

J.L. LEWIS:   Yeah, if the wind doesn't blow, they are, and the rain.  Some of the pins I thought were pretty tough.  You know, they were in spots where you had to hit good shots, and you needed to make sure that your ball was coming in on the right side of the  -- correct side of the hole, to end up close, because it would kind of fall off one way or the other.  So if the pin was left, you usually wanted to make sure you were coming in on the right side of the hole if you could.  You have a much better chance of hitting up close.  That's just kind of how I played the whole day. 

J.L. LEWIS:   I hit driver, wedge on 1 and made about a 35-footer.  Then bogeyed 2. Then birdied 8 with a 4-iron and 15-footer.  Then birdied 12.  Hit driver, 9-iron to about, I don't know, 15 feet probably and made that.  Then made about a 10-footer on the next hole.  And then on 15, I drove it right in front of the green and 2-putted it from over and made about a 20-footer on 17.  I had a pretty good day with the putter, except for a 3-putt on 2. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT