JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 10, 2005
J.L. Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J.L. LEWIS:  Well, 17 is where I messed it up.  I hit it over the green there, hit a good shot in there, and geez, had a tough chip and just kind of miffed it a little short.  I didn't want to hit it over the green back down the hill, so I think I kind of let off on it.  It wasn't a very good shot, and then I three putted that.

Then on 18 I was trying to hit it close to try to get in a playoff.
Q.  Was it just a domino effect on 17?
J.L. LEWIS:  Not really.  It was a tough shot.  I didn't hit a good putt and then I didn't hit a very good second putt.  I didn't play all that well today.  I fought it off and fought it off and made a couple of birdies there and thought I had some sort of a chance, but obviously I didn't.
Q.  Take us through the front side.  You said you knew guys were going to be coming after you, somebody could shoot 64, and I'm sure you looked up and saw everybody was right on your heels at that point?
J.L. LEWIS:  Yeah, I knew it was going to be that way.  I knew I needed to shoot under par to try to build any kind of a lead.

I had a lot of chances yesterday to make a lot of short putts and I didn't make them, and today I didn't do very well with my putting on the weekend.  It's disappointing, but I still had a good week, Top 10 week, just have to chalk it up to experience and hopefully I'll be more ready to lead the tournament from start to finish and be a little stronger on the weekend next time I'm in this situation.
Q.  Did you notice when Wes was atop the leaderboard briefly he talked about how you guys both want to win but you pull for each other if you're not going to win?
J.L. LEWIS:  Oh, yeah, I was hoping Wes would win the tournament if I didn't you know, I'm glad to see him, he needs to have a good week so that was good that he did that.  I'm really proud of him.
Q.  Tell me about what you were thinking on the approach to 18.
J.L. LEWIS:  I was trying to hit a 7 iron hard and I was in between clubs and I pulled it a little bit.  I don't know, I just didn't make a very good swing and I missed it the only place you can't miss it.
Q.  But you felt you had to go for the pin there obviously.
J.L. LEWIS:  Yeah, I was trying to pin the tournament or trying to get a chance to win the tournament, so I didn't get it done, but I was forced into getting it up and down for bogey actually, so I guess I should be happy.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT