RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 27, 2012
Matt McQuillan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Tell us what was working for you today? 
MATT McQUILLAN:   The wedge and putter worked pretty good today.   I didn't hit it that well, but I was able to keep it below the hole, and make some key par saves to keep the momentum going.

Q.   What's it mean for to you make a cut?   I know it's tough, but how important is it to do that? 
MATT McQUILLAN:   Oh, it's great.   As you know, you've probably seen it's been a struggle for me this year.   But I've been looking forward to this event all year, and it's really nice to bring a little game to the event.   Hopefully I can continue to do that over the weekend.

Q.   What was your mindset like today?   You probably knew you had a bit of work to do arriving at the course?
MATT McQUILLAN:   Yeah, I knew I was pretty much on the number.   But the greens were soft again today.   I don't know if they're going to be able to firm them up. 
But, yeah, seeing the first few shots going to the greens today, I knew there were birdies out there, and I was not hitting it that well to start.   I was a little leery, but I was able to make some key par saves and keep the round going.

Q.   Having made the cut and you get to the weekend, is it a little more relaxing or a lot of stress in trying to make cuts now? 
MATT McQUILLAN:   It is, especially in front of your home fans.   But, yeah, I'm playing one of the few weekends of the year, so I'm going to have great support out here tomorrow, and hopefully I can continue to play well.

Q.   How do you approach this type of situation?   Do you try to make it feel like a normal event or do you want to embrace the fact that maybe it's a little different? 
MATT McQUILLAN:   Yeah, I kind of treated every tournament like a normal event this year, and it hasn't worked that well.   The home soil has helped me along, and the crowd has been great to me the last two days.   I hope I can make them proud on the weekend.

Q.   Will you try to be low Canadian?   Is that something that will be in your mind, do you think? 
MATT McQUILLAN:   Oh, yeah.   That's a nice bonus.   But there are a lot of great Canadians in the field this week, and I just hope I can hang in there with them. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT