SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
December 1, 2008
Tim Tebow
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






		  
		   CHUCK DUNLAP: Can you just start us off by talking about what it's been like being back in the championship game, this time as the starting quarterback? 
 TIM TEBOW: Absolutely. Well, number one, it's an honor, and I'm very excited about it. Also getting a chance to play against Alabama, a great team, being coached by a great coach, and all the great players, it's very exciting. This was our number one goal all year and all season was to get to the SEC Championship, so it means a lot now that we're here. 

 Q. I know when you were recruited, Alabama was in there pretty high on your list. Was it pretty much Florida all the way along for you, or was that a tough decision between Florida and Alabama?
 TIM TEBOW: No, it really was a tough decision. I really liked Coach Shula, I thought he was a great coach, and I loved Alabama, the passion they had for football, the passion the fans had, and just everything. I thought it was a great town, and I really enjoyed it there. 
 But in the end, I loved Coach Meyer and just being a Gator, I couldn't pass it up. 

 Q. I know this season it's been a little bit different for you as far as your stats and numbers and your role with some of the talent you've got around you this year. How has that been for you, and do you feel like you've had just as good a year this year or better than last year? 
 TIM TEBOW: I thought overall I had a better year as far as handling the offense and managing and just being a quarterback and leading my team to victories. I think the best way to judge it is by our win-loss column, and I think that was my number one focus was getting us to the SEC Championship. And being here, it means a lot. That's the ultimate goal, so I'm satisfied now that we've done that. But not yet, we still have one more game to go. 

 Q. You've been to the Georgia Dome before. Is that going to elicit some special feelings when you walk in the door there? 
 TIM TEBOW: I think there will be some feelings of past times in there, and it'll be a lot of fun. There will be a lot of emotion and a lot of adrenaline going in there, that's for sure. 

 Q. Ever since you guys got on this roll maybe two or three weeks ago especially, all the so-called experts have been penciling you in for the National Championship game. If you were Alabama and undefeated and No. 1, would that bug you? 
 TIM TEBOW: Well, I think they're pretty mature. I think they've got mature coaches. I don't think they'll let that bother them. I don't think they worry about it, just like I don't think we'd worry about it if we were in their position. I think they're just going out there and trying to do their job like they have all year. 

 Q. I want to go back to the Ole Miss game, the statements you made after the game. I just wonder what you thought of that now, and how much of that was just post-game emotion, and how do you feel about it when basically everything you said has come true? 
 TIM TEBOW: Well, I feel good about it. I felt good about it at the time. I didn't want to make any brash statements or anything just on emotion. That's why I waited and thought about it in my locker for about an hour before I came out and addressed the media, and I really just tried to say heartfelt things and didn't try to make any statements like we're going to win the rest of our games or we're going to go undefeated or anything like that. It was just that we were going to go out there and play with intensity, play with passion, character and love for the game. And that's something that we could control and something I could control. I can't control whether we win or lose, but I can control how we play. So that's all I was really trying to say.

 Q. In your heart of hearts, did you think at that point that you guys would be where you are right now? 
 TIM TEBOW: Well, I didn't know then, but I knew the next day when we had a team meeting and some guys talked. When we went out there and practiced I knew it was going to be a different team because I knew it hurt a lot of guys more than it hurts most people when you lose, and I think that's when you see the character of a team is how you bounce back from a defeat, and I think you could really see a lot about our team. 

 Q. What changed for you individually from the start of the year? I mean, offensively it was a slow start and it didn't seem like you were yourself. Coach Meyer talked about how you put too much pressure on yourself. Did you do that, and did you feel a change after the Ole Miss game? 
 TIM TEBOW: I think for me I was probably wanting to be too perfect, like everything perfect, have a perfect season and everything, probably forcing it a little too much. After a few games I just started to relax and play, just go out there and have fun and be myself.

 Q. So in essence, you stopped thinking so much and playing and having fun like you used to? 
 TIM TEBOW: Yep. 

 Q. I was wondering, what were your first impressions of Urban Meyer when you met him during the recruiting process? 
 TIM TEBOW: Well, first impression, I was just -- watching him at Utah and everything, I had seen him coach, and I knew he was a great coach. I knew he was a very intense guy, but even when you meet him you can tell how passionate he is and how intense he is and how much love he brings to the table and how much he wants to win. That's kind of the first thing that I saw when I met him, before I got to really get to know him that well, just how intense he is and how much he wants to win. 

 Q. He seems like a guy who pretty much demands perfection. Do you find you're a personality match with him in that regard? 
 TIM TEBOW: I think we're kind of similar in that way. We both want to do anything to win, and we're both going to work extremely hard, and we're going to put everything on the line. 

 Q. You've been pretty much in a fishbowl your entire career since you've been recruited here. How do you handle those pressures and expectations externally? 
 TIM TEBOW: Well, I think there's different ways people handle them, but for me I just try to take it as a blessing. You've got your pros and cons with everything, and some people can handle it as a pro or con. I just tried to look at it as a pro, as if I get to have an opportunity to share what I believe and to share everything I do with others and be put on a platform so I can set a good example for others, and that's really my ultimate goal.

 Q. Coach said at one point he felt like maybe some of those external pressures were getting to you a little bit. What do you think changed during that period of time maybe earlier in the season? 
 TIM TEBOW: I don't really think it was the external pressures. I'd say more probably pressure I put on myself because that's always greater than anybody else could put on me. It was more going out there and playing and having fun rather than trying to be perfect. 

 Q. You mentioned earlier the meeting, the team meeting, the day after the Ole Miss game where other guys got up and said some stuff, too. Can you give me a little bit of the inner workings of that game, who said what, and how heated was it, or was it more just a clear-the-air type of thing? 
 TIM TEBOW: I think it was a little bit of all that. I think Coach did most of the speaking, and then he asked if anybody wanted to talk, and I did. So I got up and talked to the team. I don't think anybody else talked right then. I think a few guys, once we got out and practiced, I think Spikes said a few things before we started or something. But that was really about it. 

 Q. Did you see any instance where maybe the team or individual guys did not, I guess, just buy into everything that you said after that meeting? Did you have to kind of prod the team the rest of the way, or was it just kind of like a flipping-a-switch type of thing? 
 TIM TEBOW: I really don't think you had to prod or pull anybody. I think everybody bought in. I think everybody felt terrible about that game. I think everybody was determined not to let it happen again. A lot of guys after that came up to me and told me they appreciated it and they were all in, and they had the utmost confidence in our team and everything. I think it was great for me. I think everybody was kind of on that same page of we're okay, we're going to bounce back and we're going to show everybody what we're really made of. 

 Q. This was sort of asked a little bit earlier, but I want to ask you, are you surprised to see you guys as such heavy favorites, and do you worry that Alabama could use that as motivation against you guys a little bit? 
 TIM TEBOW: Well, I'm sure Alabama is going to use a lot of things as motivation, just as we will. I don't think this will be too big of a deal. I didn't even really know we were favorites until I just heard it a few minutes ago. 

 Q. Coach Meyer just a few minutes ago said that throughout your whole recruiting process that he thought he was behind Alabama the whole time. 
 TIM TEBOW: (Laughing.)

 Q. And he really thought you were going to be going to Alabama, so I'm just wondering, how close were you to going there and what kind of changed at the end to make you come back to Florida?
 TIM TEBOW: I was up in the air. I grew up being a huge Gator fan, loved Florida and loved everything about Florida. But then I made the best decision for me, what I felt was right, so I really tried to look with an open mind at all the schools, and I really liked Alabama, I liked Coach Shula, I liked what he stood for on and off the field, and I liked everything about their program and the passion that their fans have for football and how big it is there, because I'm very passionate about it, as well. I thought it was just a great fit, and I liked him, and I thought it would be great playing for him. So I really liked the school at Alabama. 
 But then at the end, I really just thought Florida was the best fit for me, playing for Coach Meyer and staying closer to home and staying in the state of Florida. I think those factors kind of were the biggest things for me. 

 Q. And Coach Shula, I think he's with the Jaguars now. Do you still keep in touch with him at all? 
 TIM TEBOW: I do talk to him every now and then. We've talked a few times during the year. He's a great guy. I'm sorry about what happened to him at Alabama, but I think he's having a great time at Jacksonville, and I think he's going to be a head coach eventually again, and he'll do a great job. He's a great guy. 

 Q. You're being asked so much about the comments that you made after the Ole Miss game and the leadership that you've shown since then. Has that almost been more important than what you've done on the field this year? 
 TIM TEBOW: Oh, I don't know. Being a leader, I guess being able to help manage guys off the field is very important. But also being a leader on the field and leading by example I think is probably more important, because guys, they're going to listen to what you say but more so what you do and how you act and how you handle yourself. So all the talking is nice, but then going out there and backing it up with your work ethic on the practice field and in the games and your courage and your heart, I think those are more important.

 Q. Coach Meyer yesterday, he pointed to the fourth quarter of the Arkansas game as kind of being a point that he really saw you start to turn around and play a lot better, I guess under a lot less pressure. What do you remember about that fourth quarter of the Arkansas game and in particular about what he was talking about? 
 TIM TEBOW: Well, you know, I think we just started to relax and go play and stop worrying about everything and making everything perfect; it was just going out there and having fun and playing, playing the same game I've played my whole life. 

 Q. I wonder if you could talk a little bit about the speed that you have in your backfield and if there's any particularly interesting or funny anecdotes during the course of the year about people bragging about who's fastest and just in general what difference those guys have made for your offense this year. 
 TIM TEBOW: Well, they make a big difference. We have a lot of guys who can go in there and be key contributors. Starting with Jeff Demps and Chris Rainey and Emmanuel Moody, all those guys can really step up and make some big plays for us, and they have. They're always going to compete about who's faster and who wins the races and everything, so that's always funny to hear. But all those guys really step up and contribute in their own way, and they're a big asset to this team. 

 Q. Can you just talk about Danny Wuerffel and just what he kind of means to you? Did he kind of set the tone for the type of quarterback you wanted to be when you got to Florida? 
 TIM TEBOW: Well, Danny Wuerffel was a great role model for me growing up and how he handled everything, the humility, and the way he handled success and failure and just his attitude on and off the field was something definitely to aspire to be like. 
 So for me that was a great role model definitely during the time when I needed good role models. So that was somebody I was really thankful for. I don't think we really played much at all, but hopefully the way we handle ourselves is similar because he definitely tried to handle himself with a lot of humility and grace with people. 

 Q. Whenever you've gotten the chance to talk with him, is it more talking about off-the-field stuff than on-the-field? 
 TIM TEBOW: I think both. I think more off-the-field, just his ministry and what I want to get involved with when I'm done playing and how he handled himself and then just hanging out and getting to know each other.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT