SEMGROUP CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JOHN Q. HAMMONS
May 4, 2007
Brandie Burton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  First of all, great round.  You're in the lead in the clubhouse.  Can you just tell us how you played today? 
 BRANDIE BURTON:  I actually played pretty steady.  It was nothing exciting.  Hit a lot fairways and greens.  Nothing particularly close, but what I did hit close I capitalized and made a couple birdies. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Can we go through your scorecard real quick?  Birdie on 1. 
 BRANDIE BURTON:  Birdie on 1.  Hit 100-yard wedge shot for about ten feet and made that for birdie.  Then on No.4 hit 5-iron to about ten feet.  Nice save on 8.  Made that 12-footer for par there. 
 No. 11 hit 8-iron to about ten feet.  No. 14 hit pitching wedge to about 30 feet and made that for birdie. 

 Q.  And 13 you had a bogey. 
 BRANDIE BURTON:  Yes.  I hit it in the right bunker and missed about a 15-footer. 

 Q.  I don't think you did have a whole lot of those six-inchers or tap-ins. 
 BRANDIE BURTON:  No, I didn't.  I didn't hit it particularly close to the hole.  It was quite hard out there today actually.  The pins were tucked into some tight spots and the wind is about 10 to 12 mile per hour out there right now.  It's hard to judge an elevated shot to the green.  It was really tough to get it close to the hole today.  You had to be really patient. 

 Q.  Is that what happens when you have as much range as you have had in the last week?  You come here and you're getting basically no roll, but the good news is the greens will hold up.  Does that level things out? 
 BRANDIE BURTON:  I don't know.  I think it makes it tougher because the golf course is playing much longer than it normally does.  But they're doing a heck of a job with the weather conditions as far as keeping the course the way it is.  The greens are fantastic and they're holding the shots well and they're rolling well. 

 Q.  It's 2:00 p.m. in the afternoon and 3-under is the mark to achieve.  Do you think that considering conditions that that will stay (indiscernible). 
 BRANDIE BURTON:  I don't know if you'll see a really low round today, especially with the breeze picking up.  Probably had the better part of the day teeing off in the morning. 
 But I don't think you'll see a really low score, but maybe somebody might come in at 4- or 5-under. 

 Q.  What would it mean for to you win here? 
 BRANDIE BURTON:  It would be huge.  I've had a lot of uphill battles with some injuries, and I'm just overcoming another one.  Just for me to start shooting some good numbers and get the confidence going and to win would be the top of the mountain. 

 Q.  (Indiscernible). 
 BRANDIE BURTON:  I don't know if there is such a thing.  14 surgeries, hopefully the end.  You know, right thumb, right wrist, left ankle, right shoulder, and one surgery a year for the last eight years.  I really haven't had an off-season. 
 Right now is my time where I'm finally starting to feel good and get my game into shape, whereas most people would have their game in shape in February. 

 Q.  Has there been one particular surgery that has the biggest obstacle? 
 BRANDIE BURTON:  Any time you injure a wrist or a thumb or torn ligaments.  I've had four right shoulders surgeries, so that takes away some of the distance and the aggressiveness of the game. 

 Q.  Do you feel like you're on the backside of that now and coming back into form? 
 BRANDIE BURTON:  Yeah.  Every morning is a new adventure for me.  I feel very fortunate just to be out here competing after all that I've been through. 

 Q.  Annika won here so often that she said the first day at this tournament was so huge because you can't put yourself in a hole. 
 BRANDIE BURTON:  Absolutely correct.  Any time you have a 54-hole event it's important to get out of the gate.  This is a good start for me.  Hopefully I can build off this confidence and maybe hit it a little closer tomorrow and have some more opportunities. 

 Q.  I guess you're not surprised that there's a bunch of people all bunched together.  Is that a reflection of the way the course is playing today? 
 BRANDIE BURTON:  Absolutely.  They got a lot of tough pins out there and it's hard to get two close to the hole.  Patience was the key out there. 

 Q.  Are you surprised by this round at all?  I mean, did this come as a surprise to you, or did you feel like, I've been playing pretty well? 
 BRANDIE BURTON:  I just come off two weeks of fishing and doing nothing, so it is a surprise.  I got a new set of irons in the bag and I got a new driver today. 

 Q.  Where were you fishing at? 
 BRANDIE BURTON:  Big Bear, California. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT