U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
May 28, 1996
Brandie Burton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BRANDIE BURTON: I got the chills stepping out on the 18th tee today. 
 

Q.  Did you beat Vicki Goetze in that final?
 
BRANDIE BURTON: It was a Hawaiian girl, and I can't remember her name, actually, that I beat in the finals.  However, both of them went to the 18th hole. 
 

Q.  How have you played the course this week?
 
BRANDIE BURTON: I played the course this morning, and it's in fabulous condition.  It's challenging.  It's going to take all kinds of shot-making.  It's playing rather lengthy right now, and of course you've got the challenge of the greens.  So I think it's a truly spectacular Open golf course. 
 

Q.  How would you say the golf course has changed since you won in the Girls' Junior?
 
BRANDIE BURTON: I would say obviously we were up a little closer on the tee boxes, and it played a little shorter.  I don't quite remember trying to hit four and three irons into par 4's like I did this morning.  I play a lot of golf courses year in and year out, so -- overall I think the layout was pretty much the same. 
 

Q.  Your life has certainly changed a lot since 1989 when you came out on the tour.  That was in 1990, you were one of the youngest professionals.  And certainly that year you had a little trouble getting around the country, as I recall, as a rookie.  But now you've been on the tour for six years, you've been one of the leading money winners in women's professional golf.  How has all this turned out in regards to the goals you set for yourself earlier?
 
BRANDIE BURTON: Well, it's been unbelievable, because this is my 6th year on tour, and it seems like yesterday I just got out here.  But I had some very quick success when I came out here.  And maybe it's been a little lull here in the last couple of years, but I've been working hard and getting back to enjoying the game again. I'm trying to go out and have fun, and hopefully a breakthrough will happen soon. 
 

Q.  I know you had a serious knee injury early in your career.  How is your current health status?
 
BRANDIE BURTON: My health is pretty good.  I've got the wrist. Just seemed like I had one health problem after another, and that could probably be beating as many balls on the range as I'd like to beat.  I know you can't do that week in and week out.  I now try to schedule myself a little better to have a better playing schedule and be healthy while doing that. 
 

Q.  Do you think it was your feel that went, Brandie, when things fell apart or was it something particular that went and affected your game?
 
BRANDIE BURTON: I'm not totally sure what it was.  I know I didn't love the game as much as I did in '91, '92, '93.  I just -- 
 

Q.  Why?
 
BRANDIE BURTON: I got a little bored with the game, I guess.  I'm not that bored of success, it's not that at all. And I don't want you to interpret that that way.  But I just felt -- I wish I knew the answer.  I just know that I'm back, and I'm happy again, and I've incorporated some creativity in my game that wasn't there when I didn't win, and that's made it fun for me and made me enjoy it. 
 

Q.  You said your enthusiasm has returned.  Do you know what made it come back?
 
BRANDIE BURTON: I think it was the help of Dave Stockton.  He and I have -- we live rather close together in southern California and he obviously saw some talent and was kind of wondering how come this talent wasn't coming out in me the last couple of years.  And he took me underneath his wing, and he helped me on swing changes and course management situations.  And just like you said, we've got to incorporate the fun back in the game again to win. 
 

Q.  Brandie, even though the Girls' Juniors has been several years ago, what does it mean for you psychologically to play the Women's Open on the course you know you've had success?
 
BRANDIE BURTON: That's a great perc, I think.  It feels good to me, because I always have great memories, every time I step on the tee box here.  Like I said, I stepped on the 18 tee today in the practice round, and I was playing with Nancy Lopez, and I said, wow, this is really weird, because I remember being here 7 years ago.  So I think overall it's going to help me mentally, just to be really positive and be really excited to be playing this golf course again. 
 

Q.  Is there one particular moment from that Girls' Junior that stands out in your mind that you remember?
 
BRANDIE BURTON: I'll never forget the first hole the last day, and I'm sure Peggy Kirk Bell won't forget it, my first shot I hit it out in the pine trees and we couldn't find the ball.  It was absolutely amazing, because it really wasn't that far out.  And I'll never forget Peggy just dwelling on it that we never could find that ball.  But between that and 18 on -- in the finals I know that I hit the drive a little right and made a pretty good four there to win. Then I have to say the final memory would be just being up at the presentation with Peggy Kirk Bell, that was an honor, in itself. 
 

Q.  Have you had a chance to get together with Peggy this week?
 
BRANDIE BURTON: No, I haven't yet.  I saw her today.  She was chipping or putting, and she doesn't walk around without a golf club in her hand.  I'm looking forward to having a chat with her. 
 

Q.  She's next up in the interview room.  Is playing with Nancy -- has Nancy been an idol or an inspiration to you?
 
BRANDIE BURTON: She's always been an idol.  I've watched her. I'm sure she doesn't appreciate it when I tell her I watched her from this big (INDICATING). 
 

Q.  How old were you?
 
BRANDIE BURTON: I was nine years old.  And every year up until I turned pro I was always -- back behind the ropes and watched her at the Dinah Shore, because I lived near Palm Springs.  She's always been an idol, and she was one of the great players when I did come out here kind of also helped me along, if I had any problems.  And it's been kind of a thing we do, we always play practice rounds at the U.S. Open. 
 

Q.  Do you?
 
BRANDIE BURTON: It's a lot of fun. 
 

Q.  Didn't she once give you a golf ball when you were a little girl?
 
BRANDIE BURTON: Yes, she did, and signed it, that was when  Roscoe was caddying for her, that's a precious item. 
 

Q.  Do you still have that golf ball?
 
BRANDIE BURTON: Yes, I do. 
 

Q.  Brandie, this golf course seems to be quite long, at least if my point of view, it looks like it might be a course for big hitters, do you share that opinion?
 
BRANDIE BURTON: Oh, definitely and depending on what they're going to do with the rough, it will probably get pretty tall by the end of the week.  So the positioning of the ball is going to be very important, and I do think it's going to favor the long hitter, because today I was hitting it out there pretty good today, even though it was wet this morning, on the average par 4 I had five four irons, it's like you've got to throw darts in there. 
 

Q.  In the LPGA as well as the U.S. Women's Open, there's been a very good showing by the international players, what's the buzz on that by the American players?
 
BRANDIE BURTON: Well, you know, I think it makes our tour that much stronger and that much better to have players like that come out.  And it's just great to have the competitive atmosphere that we have.  And it's amazing for me to look back just five and a half years ago and see the players and the competitive level I came out into and to see it now, it feels like it's doubled, and I think it's great for the game. 
 

Q.  You're coming to the British Open?
 
BRANDIE BURTON: Yes, I am. 
 

Q.  What's the best you've done in the British?
 
BRANDIE BURTON: I finished second there to Karen Lunn when she won in '93, I believe. 
 

Q.  And in the U.S. Women's Open your top finish has been 8th place, and that was in 1991?
 
BRANDIE BURTON: Colonial, wasn't it? 
 

Q.  Colonial, that's right.  In real hot weather there.  We've moved the Women's Open up to May this year in order to have conditions a little cooler.  Do you think that might affect the outcome in any way?  It's usually in July, and steaming hot?
 
BRANDIE BURTON: It looks like it still might be a little steamy hot this week.  But I don't think it's really going to change anything, because the course is in tip-top shape, and it's just going to be who's going to make the most birdies and fewest strokes out there that's going to win this championship. 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT