THE SOLHEIM CUP
October 23, 1994
Brandie Burton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BRANDIE BURTON: To begin with, it was kind of  a shock, maybe too many of people that were paired  together -- because usually Laura is known to go right  out OF the box on the singles matches.  I guess it was  kind of ironic that being -- that we were paired up  last time in the singles matches and she pretty much  drowned me.  But we went out today and I don't think  either of us really played up to our potential.  We  kind of were going back and forth like a yo-yo, and you  definitely got worn out by the end of the day.  I'd make a birdie or bogey and she'd make  par; she'd make birdie.  We were going back and forth.  And I missed two, three footers, missed a three footer  on 9 to get it back to even after winning 8.  Then on  11.  I almost holed it out about six inches.  So I won  that hole to go to even.  12, I almost holed out a  75-yard sand wedge and had about a foot and a half  there, went one up there.  And then 13, I 3-putted from  about 25 feet, missed another three footer, so I am  thinking that I am just giving this match away, and I  was not a happy camper at that point.  Then Laura, she  was hitting some good shots, then she was kind of  helping me out.  Then I was helping her out.  It was  just like ping pong; back and forth all day long.  I  think a big turning point for me was on 15 when I  knocked the 9-iron in there about ten feet and made  that for birdie to win the hole to bring it back to  even.  Then 16, she helped me out and hit her second  shot in the water and she conceded the hole to me with  a par.  17 was a big key for me.  When I hit, pulled my  9-iron left in the bunker, in the back left bunker and  hit about the best sand shot I could possibly hit with  from that situation to about ten feet and made that  putt to save par and tie the hole.  So that was very  big.  And especially walking down the fairway on 18,  knowing that worse comes to worse, I am going to have  the halve and I just found out that Tammie had just won  her match.  It was the best feeling in the world  because we were 5 and a half and just gotten the Cup.  Like I said, it was just a great match.  We were  fighting at each other back and forth and I was lucky  and fortunate to have it go on my side.  


Q.  Could you talk about your play all week?  

BRANDIE BURTON: I played really well this  week.  It was probably the best I played all year  long.  I really haven't had that good of a season  coming into the Solheim, but I feel like I really  prepared myself because I had a week off.  I was  probably -- I think I was the only one on this team  that did not play in the World Championship last week.  But I had a great week of really working hard and I was  really determined to come in here and play the best  golf that I could play and with my partner Dottie in  the first two days, I'd hit some great shots; I putted  very well.  Today wasn't as good, but then again, I hit  some great shots to kind of back that up, so I was very  excited about my play this week.  I thought I played  pretty good.  


Q.  Would you talk a little bit about you and  Dottie and give us an idea of how well she played those  two matches that you played?  

BRANDIE BURTON:  Dottie played excellent golf all week as  well.  I think everybody on this team played excellent  golf.  I don't think you can have one person over  another.  Dottie and -- I wanted to be paired with  Dottie to begin with when JoAnne had confirmed it to me  months before -- about a month before The Cup, this  week and asked me who I would like to play with.  And I  had asked if I could play with Dottie because I felt  like we would really mesh together well.  That we acted  alike on the golf course and could feed off each other  Dottie hit it steady down the fairway all week;  made  some great putts, key saves when we needed them and we  just -- we clicked really well because when I had a bad  hole she came right in and took right over and when she  had a bad hole, I came in and backed her up, so just it  worked out perfect for us this week.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT