LPGA CORNING CLASSIC
May 27, 2006
Brandie Burton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PAM WARNER:  Brandie, thanks for coming and in joining is again.  Three shots off the lead.  You played pretty well again.  Do you just want to talk about your day first?
BRANDIE BURTON:  I hit the ball really solid.  I didn't get out of the round what I thought I should have.  I think I missed two greens.  I just didn't get it close enough to the hole.  Then my putting let me down coming down the stretch.  I missed a lot of good opportunities, especially to save par on 18 would have been nice.  But overall I was pretty happy.  I struck the ball pretty well.
Q.  What are your thoughts going into tomorrow, the final round?
BRANDIE BURTON:  Hopefully something will break loose.  Like I said, I struck the ball very solid.  I just have to get that putter going.  If I can get some more confidence in that thing, then I think    the greens got a little bumpy this afternoon and I just couldn't get the speed down.
PAM WARNER:  Do you want to go over your scorecard.
BRANDIE BURTON:  Sure.  No. 1, hit rescue, 4 iron, whatever you want to call it, to about 10 feet and made birdie.

No. 2, hit the same thing, rescue club to about 20 feet, 2 putted for birdie.

No. 9, hit 9 iron to about 40 feet and made that for birdie.
Q.  Did it break at all?
BRANDIE BURTON:  A little bit.

No. 10, three putted from about 30 feet, and missed about a five footer for the second putt.

14, hit sand wedge to about 10 feet, made that for birdie.

And 18, hit a bad tee shot, didn't really have a shot to the green, hit it out about 60 yards and hit it to about 10 feet and missed that to save par, so made bogey.
PAM WARNER:  What did you hit up to the green with?
BRANDIE BURTON:  Sand wedge.
Q.  What was your second shot?
BRANDIE BURTON:  It was a rescue.  It was deep.  There is no way an iron would have gotten that out of there.
Q.  I was hearing on The Golf Channel you had surgery recently?
BRANDIE BURTON:  Yes, I had surgery on the right thumb.
Q.  What happened?
BRANDIE BURTON:  Being a klutz, basically.  I tripped and fell and bent my thumb back and bent the whole ligament.
Q.  Is that affecting your play now, as far as gripping?
BRANDIE BURTON:   Not too bad.  I did get a late start to the season because of it, so I didn't start until Nabisco this year.  I had the surgery early in December.  Once in a while I get little zingers, but overall I'm very pleased with it and there's hardly any pain now.
Q.  You birdied your first two holes.  Did you feel you were going to have a better round than you ended up having?
BRANDIE BURTON:   I had momentum going really quickly.  But like I said, I did have some opportunities, I just couldn't get the putter to cooperate with me.
Q.  Every day I think you've said it's just a matter of
BRANDIE BURTON:  Exactly, waiting.
Q.  (No microphone.)
BRANDIE BURTON:  No, I'm not.  I think it was a matter    I didn't get it real close, but when I did, I had a lot of left to right sliders, which were very important with the speed.  In the past these greens have been very slippery and they're just not as fast as they were the last couple of years.  So I keep on thinking they're going to slide down the hill and they come to a screeching halt.  So it's just a matter of getting my speed and I just haven't been able to get that.
Q.  Again, you were talking about your recent struggles and all, but maybe I'd like to hear you talk about the good times you've had.  You've won two majors, you know, Hall of Famers, have done that, and the Solheim Cup.  Just talk about your career.
BRANDIE BURTON:  My career has been awesome.  This is my 16th year, with eight surgeries that I have had during it.  But the five Solheim cups I wouldn't trade for the world.  Five wins and two majors, it's been a lot of fun.  I'm hoping to add to that soon.
Q.  Did you ever think when you started out, that's what it would come to, that you would be that successful on the Tour?
BRANDIE BURTON:  I was hoping, obviously.  You always hope to when you start like that.  I was coming straight out of college, one year out of college with a National Championship, kind of a hot commodity then, like the Morgan Pressels are now.  Now I'm just a beat up, old veteran.
Q.  What do you think it's going to take to get by Jeong Jang?
BRANDIE BURTON:  I definitely to make a lot of birdies.  I don't know what the low score was today, but she was at 15, so I would say at least 20 is going to win.
Q.  They're talking about the forecast, mid 80s at least, could hit 90s.  Is that kind of real sweltering, is that the type of weather you like?
BRANDIE BURTON:  With my body, the warmer the better.  That's fine with me.
PAM WARNER:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT