LPGA CORNING CLASSIC
May 26, 2006
Brandie Burton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PAM WARNER:  Brandie, thanks for coming in and joining us today.  You're currently in the lead at 10 under.  Talk about your round today.
BRANDIE BURTON:  Actually, I played very steady today.  I didn't putt very well on the back side.  I had quite a few opportunity, but didn't capitalize on them.  Overall, I'm very pleased to be here a second time.
PAM WARNER:  What are your thoughts going into the weekend with the lead?
BRANDIE BURTON:  I feel pretty good.  I hit the ball very well today, very steady.  I drove it well off the tee.  It's just a matter of getting the putter rolling a little bit, which you definitely need to do out here in Corning on the weekend.
PAM WARNER:  Can we go over your scorecard?
BRANDIE BURTON:  Sure.  I'll start on the back.

14, hit sand wedge to about three feet, made birdie.

15, hit pitching wedge to about 5 feet, made birdie.

16, hit pitching wedge to about 12 feet and made birdie.

No. 1, hit 6 iron to about 20 feet, made that for birdie.

No. 4, hit it long left, chipped it to about 12 feet, missed that, and made bogey.

No. 5, hit 5 iron and had a 20 footer for eagle and ended up two putting for birdie.
PAM WARNER:  We'll take questions.
Q.  Talk about being where you are and, like you said earlier, it's been a little while, what's going through your mind?
BRANDIE BURTON:  It's fun again.  It's been a long time since I've been in contention.  I feel good.  I didn't feel nervous out there at all.  The weekend might be a little different because I haven't been in this situation for a while.  But I hope I can keep myself in contention for the weekend, which will be a lot of fun.
Q.  Talk about the course conditions and today versus yesterday.
BRANDIE BURTON:  The rain really didn't bother us. We got very little misting.  The greens seemed to be a little more firm out there today than they were yesterday.  It was a little tougher to get the ball close to the hole.  They were really springy on the first bounce.  Other than that, the typical afternoon, a little bumpiness with poa annua on the greens, but the course is still in fantastic shape.
Q.  Is there anyone that seems to be a competitor with you?
BRANDIE BURTON:  There's a bunch of us up there.  We're only halfway through.  10 under is leading right now, but whoever is in the red still has a chance to win this tournament.  This golf course can give up a lot of birdies.  If you get somebody who is going hot    it's anybody's game still at this point.
Q.  What preceded the switch to the belly putter?  Did you try other    is it something you had been with for quite a while, it wasn't working and you went to that, or did you try a series of them?
BRANDIE BURTON:  No, I didn't actually.  I was struggling with my putting for the last year and a half or so.  I'm very traditional, so it was like trying to say, no, I don't need to go to the belly putter, I wanted to stick with the traditionalism of it.  I finally gave in and decided to go with the belly putter in Las Vegas of this year.  It just felt good right away.  I haven't tried any other putters or belly putters or anything.  It just felt good right away and I've been with it ever since.  I've seen a lot of difference with my stroke, and confidence as well.
Q.  Any particular strategy going into tomorrow?
BRANDIE BURTON:  Keep doing what I'm doing.  Like I said, I'm giving myself a lot of opportunities.  I'm striking the ball well off the tee, keeping it in play, just try to make some more putts.
Q.  Is it a matter of success breeds confidence or confidence breeds success?
BRANDIE BURTON:  I think it works both way.
Q.  Do you feel one or the other more at this point?
BRANDIE BURTON:  Right now, my confidence might breed the success just because I have been playing well leading up to this tournament, I just haven't been posting the numbers.  I think I'm close to breaking through.  Hopefully it will be this week.
PAM WARNER:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT