LPGA CORNING CLASSIC
May 25, 2006
Brandie Burton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PAM WARNER:  Brandie, thanks for coming in and joining us today.  A great round out there, 66.  Just talk about your day.
BRANDIE BURTON:  I got off to a pretty fast start.  I was paired with J.J. so we fed off each other.  I birdied the first two holes and eagled No. 4.  So I definitely had some momentum going in and kind of calmed down on the back.  But overall I hit it fairly well and I'm happy with the day.
PAM WARNER:  Let's go over your scorecard.
BRANDIE BURTON:  No. 1, I hit 7 iron to 20 feet and made that for birdie.

No. 2, hit 4 iron to 30 feet and 2 putted for birdie.

I'm sorry, it was No. 5 that I eagled.  Hit a 6 iron to about 5 feet and made that for eagle.

7, hit 7 iron to about a foot.

10, I hit 9 iron to about 20 feet and made that for birdie.

No. 12, hit sand wedge from 90 yards to about a foot.

And then No. 15, just misclubbed over the green, missed about a 10 footer to save par.
PAM WARNER:  We'll take questions.

Q.  Judging by all the scores that are around 6 under, it seems like the course is playing well?
BRANDIE BURTON:  It's just perfect playing conditions out there.  A little bit of a mist, but nothing to get in your way and there's practically no breeze out there, so perfect scoring conditions today.

Q.  Is the back nine playing harder than the front?
BRANDIE BURTON:  The front has a couple of Par 5s that are very reachable.  The back side, yes, there are a couple of good Par 4s.  And you really need to put the ball in the right spots on the greens to have a good opportunity to make birdie.

Q.  How have you been playing coming into this week?
BRANDIE BURTON:  It's been a long time since I've been in the media room.  I've been playing kind of consistently, just kind of 1 or 2 under and feel like I'm on the verge of hopefully breaking through.  It's just a matter of getting the putter rolling for me.  If I get some confidence going that way maybe I can make things happen.

Q.  You were in the hunt here in '98, '99.  Is there something about this course that you like?
BRANDIE BURTON:  I just love being here.  The people are so great.  They are behind you no matter where you're going to hit it.  They are very applauding and very hospitable.  I really enjoy being at Corning.

Q.  You talked about your putting.  Do you feel that's coming together?  How are you putting together?
BRANDIE BURTON:   I am putting fairly well.  I had a lot of good opportunities, but I just couldn't get it to go in.  I felt I was stroking it well.  I switched to a belly putter in Vegas of this year. So it's coming along well.

Q.  Anything you want to do or need to do mentally between now and tomorrow knowing that you are up there near the top and knowing there are several other players who are going to be close?  How do you get ready for that?
BRANDIE BURTON:  I have to try to make as many birdies as I can, because this golf course gives up a few of those.  Hopefully I can keep making birdies and stay up with everybody else.
PAM WARNER:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT