ARCH WIRELESS CHAMPIONSHIP
November 16, 2000
Brandie Burton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BRANDIE BURTON:   Okay.  No. 5, I hit a 5-iron to about 30 feet and made that for birdie.  No. 11, I -- bear with me, I'm not real familiar with this golf course.  I hit 7-iron to about 20 feet and made that for birdie.  And 17, I hit 8-iron to about 20 feet and made that for birdie. 
 
BRANDIE BURTON:  The golf course is excellent.  You can't let your guard down at any time.  It has a variety of holes.  The wind is playing pretty tricky out there.  One minute it is into you, and the next minute it was with you.  Club selection was very important.  My day wasn't very pretty.  I struggled out there.  It was not an easy 69.  Very pleased with the outcome number, needless to say.  
  

Q.  How did you like the other course?  Which one do you prefer?  Which one do you think fits your game better?  Can you just talk about the difference in the two courses and how it fits your game?
 
BRANDIE BURTON:   I think this golf course fits my game a little bit better.  I like having a little bit more focal points, as far as the direction, your targets.  Whereas the other golf course was pretty wide open, and, you know, it was just kind of there.  I really had a hard time concentrating over there.  And I feel like one of my strengths is tunnel vision, and I just wasn't able to do that on the other golf course.  
  

Q.  How would you assess your season, and if you win here, how would that change your thoughts on the season?
 
BRANDIE BURTON:   If I could win here, it would be total icing on the ache here, as far as I am concerned, missing all of '99 with two shoulder surgeries, to be able to come out and play a full season with no pain, make the Solheim Cup, that's a pretty successful year.  And I've pretty much, you know, I've accomplished the goals that I set out to do.  You know, being here this week was great.  It is great.  And if I come out on top, it will be pretty incredible.  My health is very good, so it's nice to play with no pain.  Only because it is close to my home.  You know, it's tough, you know, I've been off for a month now doing every other sport but golf.  I've been home and come all the way back to the East Coast for a week, but we're very fortunate to have a place to come to under the circumstances.  And I think they have done a great job getting this event together in a short amount of time.  I have not been particularly participating more so than spectating.  So, you know, nephew's soccer games, a little bit of drag racing and then a little bit of fishing.  
  

Q.  (Inaudible)?
 
BRANDIE BURTON:   No, I went fishing in Mexico.  No, I can't watch fishing.  I need to participate in that.  
  

Q.  (Inaudible)?
 
BRANDIE BURTON:   Basically, they went in and tightened up my right shoulder capsule, and I had some loose cartilage in there; so they pretty much tightened it up.  It's very similar to what they did with Greg Norman.  They went and heat probed it, with -- its like a heat temperature.  For example, possibly like throwing a piece of bacon in the frying pan to shrink it up.  So, it's a very temperamental surgery and it also takes twice the amount of time to recover, because if you go back too soon, then you are obviously back.  So it was very time consuming and required a lot of patience and a lot of rehab, but, you know it was very successful.  
  

Q.  (Inaudible)?
 
BRANDIE BURTON:   No, I'm not.  I will be going home Sunday afternoon. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT