NBA DRAFT 2019
June 20, 2019
Nassir Little
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Could you just describe your style of play and what you'll bring to your new team?
NASSIR LITTLE: I'm an athletic and versatile wing.  I can do a lot of different things. Really good defensively.  Be around the ball.  Able to hit open shots and finish inside the paint well.
Q. You were out there for a while.  What were the emotions of watching all the picks go by?
NASSIR LITTLE: Just anxious, anticipation.  Just wanting to feel that feeling of excitement when your name is called.  It was definitely worth it, man.  So I'm glad to be here.
Q. How did you first learn where you were going?
NASSIR LITTLE: They usually contact your agent and they'll let you know.  Yeah, that's kind of how it went.  And then the Commissioner confirms it.
Q. So your agent leans over and whispers, "You're going here"?
NASSIR LITTLE: Yeah, yeah.
Q. How was that moment?
NASSIR LITTLE: That moment was cool, but the moment when the Commissioner comes out and really says your name is the real boom.  That's when the real emotions start to come out.  I was glad to experience that.
Q. As you were going through the draft process, what were you told was your projected range to be picked?
NASSIR LITTLE: Projected range was in the lottery.
Q. And how do you respond to the teams that passed on you that were in the lottery?
NASSIR LITTLE: I play basketball.  No matter what, I've got to play, regardless of where you're picked.  So just continue to do what I've always been doing.
Q. If you could identify something that you learned in terms of your basketball game or otherwise while you were in college at North Carolina, could you pick one area where you feel you really developed in this last year?
NASSIR LITTLE: I think I developed most probably my off-the-ball defense, being introduced to new defensive schemes and stuff like that.  I think I really took strides in understanding that part of the game.
Q. Could you try to convey a drill or some kind of notes you got in practice that helped you improve off-ball defense?
NASSIR LITTLE: Not necessarily a drill, but just watching film with the assistant coaches and just kind of seeing where I was supposed to be on the court, and then trying to implement it in practice and games.
Q. What is it like sharing this night with Coby and Cam?
NASSIR LITTLE: It's special, man.  We've had hundreds of practices together, and we all worked so hard to get to this moment.  I think we all beat a lot of odds to get here.  So just kind of seeing us all go through this has been really exciting.  I'm happy for all three of us.
Q. What do you know about the Trail Blazers and how do you think you'll fit in?
NASSIR LITTLE: Yeah, I watched them play a lot.  They've got two great guards in Damian Lillard and CJ McCollum.  I think at the 3 position they could use some more talent, and I think I provide that for them.  I think me playing with great guards like that can also help me develop as a good player.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT