VOLVO MASTERS ANDALUCIA
November 1, 2003
Carlos Rodiles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








GORDON SIMPSON:  Carlos,  it's been a long day but you and Freddie seemed to enjoy a good head-to-head contest.

CARLOS RODILES:   Yeah, it's been fun.  Playing with Fredrik, I made a couple birdies, and he made a few birdies.  It was a roller coaster of a day but roller coaster quality, which is fun. 

GORDON SIMPSON:  Obviously it helps, as well, to be in local territory and get that sort of support.

CARLOS RODILES:   Yeah, the crowd was unbelievable.  The support was fantastic, for both of us, actually.  Freddie had quite a good Swedish contingent with him.  Both ways, it was fantastic, so it was a lot of fun. 


Q.  When you were six behind this morning, did you think you would end the day in this position? 

CARLOS RODILES:   I wasn't even thinking.  You know, as I said yesterday, this course  -- or the day before, this course, you've just got to be so patient and you cannot look at the other player.  Because, you know, if you start to worry about the other person, you're going to start hitting to his game and it's going to affect your game.  I think you've just got to keep playing, keep hitting fairways, keep hitting greens.  It just happened today and my iron play was unbelievable.  I hit a lot of really close shots all day, but the plan on this course is try to hit fairways and hit greens.  If you can hit close, it's a bonus, but you've just got to keep it in play.

GORDON SIMPSON:  How do you feel about the rest of the tournament now that you're in this position from the top of the leaderboard?

CARLOS RODILES:   I think, what is it, 9-under was third.  But as I said, this course, with 25, 26 holes to go, anybody that is within six or seven shots is in the game.  So I don't know how many players are within that number, but I'm just going to try to keep my game plan, fairways and greens, and if it happens that I win, it will be fantastic. 


Q.  Did you find the conditions very difficult today, first considering the ground, because it was very wet, and the wind in the morning? 

CARLOS RODILES:   Well, I think the wet ground makes it a bit easier.  But the wind was pumping up there, it was really blowing.  I don't know, just keep hitting good shots, the wind doesn't seem to affect the ball.  But I'm sure that if you're not hitting the ball good, it's going everywhere, so you've just got to try to keep hitting solid shots all day. 


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT