OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 25, 2019
Callum Shinkwin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You've added a 68 to yesterday's 66.  Just tell us about your play today.
CALLUM SHINKWIN: Yeah, my play today was same as yesterday really.  Played pretty solid, drove the ball great.  If you hit the fairways, you can score, and that's what I've been doing, hitting fairways.  But yeah, the back nine seemed to be my friend today, as well as yesterday, so yeah, it was good.
Q. Playing conditions out there today compared to yesterday afternoon?
CALLUM SHINKWIN: It was pretty similar.  The rough was juicy this morning, so if you went in there, it was really tough.  But yeah, I mean, for the first 18 holes it was the same as 14 holes yesterday, so it was pretty similar.
Q. You finished 119th in the Race to Dubai last year, only 115 keep their licence to play fully on the Tour this year.  We know that you qualified last week for Abu Dhabi, you qualified this week, but you can't do that every week.  Where can you play this year?
CALLUM SHINKWIN: Yeah, so I don't really know, to be fair.  Last year I think my category, my ranking got 18 events, I think, but that's last minute, as well, that's on a Thursday morning.  But yeah, this year I don't know, it's all changed, as well, the schedule, even back for the Europe side.  I can't say.
Q. We know yesterday you told us you had some personal issues last year, some equipment issues last year which stopped you playing at your best.  You know you're good enough; how frustrating is it when you know you're playing well and you're good enough?
CALLUM SHINKWIN: Yeah, it was more my own fault really with the equipment.  I wouldn't blame Callaway one little bit.  I mean, their equipment is great.  It was more me with deciding what I wanted to use, and I wasn't choosing the right equipment for the event.  But I mean, it is frustrating.  Unfortunately two years ago I played great four rounds in a row, and then I never really pushed on from there.  I blame myself, no one else to blame, and yeah, that's what I feel like I've done.  I've kicked myself up the bum a little bit and I've pushed on.
Q. 4-under today, not quite the 66 yesterday but still moving in the right direction.  How did you find it today?
CALLUM SHINKWIN: Yeah, it was nice again today.  The only thing that was different was the rough was very wet.  I think twice I was in there and twice made bogey.  But apart from that, it was nice.
Q. Of course you had to qualify for Dubai, qualify for Abu Dhabi.  How challenging is it to keep up the endurance when these weeks come across?
CALLUM SHINKWIN: Yeah, I mean, to be fair, I'm actually doing something different with my strategy before every event now, and after my rounds of golf.  So it's more I feel better myself and feeling tired, but if I am tired I will stop and go sleep.  If I don't feel that tired, I'll go do a bit of grinding and then go back and go to sleep.
Q. Of course you want to get into as many tournaments as you possibly can; what do you do for the rest of the year?  We've seen two years ago what you're capable of.
CALLUM SHINKWIN: Yeah, I mean, it would be great to win no matter what.  A win anywhere would be great.  Yeah, I mean, I just want to get back on the Tour, have my playing status back fully, and I still want to compete with the best.
Q. Mindset for the weekend all for nothing?
CALLUM SHINKWIN: It's the same as always.  I try to perform as well as I can.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT