OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 24, 2019
Callum Shinkwin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Round of 6-under par, afternoon starter, looking at some good scores from the morning, and you delivered on it.  How was it out there?  
CALLUM SHINKWIN: Yeah, I mean, it wasn't too bad.  The wind didn't pick up until the last five, six holes for me.  Yeah, it was pretty nice.   
 Q.  So a tough season last year, but so far this year, on a fight to get in Abu Dhabi, get to play there, qualify again, but not just qualify, win the qualifier both times.  You're clearly doing a lot right.  What is it about your game that's really clicked for you?  
CALLUM SHINKWIN: Personally I think I've found the equipment that works, the contract, for me.  That's been the trouble the last two years mainly, as well as I've got a few things going last year which are obviously just personal.  But yeah, the game feels great.  It's felt great for the last two or three months, and then now I'm finally showing what I can do.   
 Q.  Your game, as well, you've been there, you've competed to win tournaments.  Having had a tough year, coming into this week on the back of qualifying, is there a different sense of optimism when you've earned your way into a tournament the way you have?  
CALLUM SHINKWIN: I mean, well, I've been here for the last two, three years, so it almost feels like it's the same.  But qualifying, it makes it a little bit more draining.  Playing, I think, what, six, seven days on the trot is hard on the body and the mind.  But yeah, winning also helps anyone.  If you win, you feel more comfortable straightaway.  Even if it's just a qualifier, it feels great.   
 Q.  How did you find it out there today?  
CALLUM SHINKWIN: Yeah, it wasn't too bad.  I felt like I had a morning tee time, playing at half 11, but the wind wasn't really that strong for the first 12, 13, 14 holes.  It started picking up -- the ball was going a long way on 9, let's put it that way.   
 Q.  Last year we obviously didn't see you perform to the standards we know you can.  Obviously had a great week last week at Abu Dhabi.  Again, it's really important to you to do really well this week.  How are you finding it?  
CALLUM SHINKWIN: Yeah, I had to qualify for both events, and I won both qualifiers, so the game feels good, and I feel like I should be here, which is a good thing, and yeah, I mean, it's great being in the Middle East.   
 Q.  We saw a few eagles on the scoreboards today.  Yours I think was the only one on 17.  Tell us about that.  
CALLUM SHINKWIN: I hit a really good drive, slightly left of the green, just pitched it in.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT