ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 14, 2017
Callum Shinkwin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How would you would you describe your quality of play today?
CALLUM SHINKWIN: It was very good.  I played very well today.  A couple of missed putts on the two par 3s, but other than that it was very cool.
Q. You struggled a little this season, finished 30th last week at Portstewart.  What have you found in your game?
CALLUM SHINKWIN: I've just found a consistency in my game really, a little piece of the puzzle missing.  Managed to find that at The French Open, and keep trying to perform and practise, as well.
Q. You've turned in another solid 68 today.  You must be delighted.
CALLUM SHINKWIN: I am, because the front nine was quite slow, which is the back nine.  But once I made a couple of birdies on two and three, I managed to kick-start and have less mistakes.
Q. Two rounds of 68 last week helped you to a top 30 finish.  What is it about links golf that seems to suit your eye?
CALLUM SHINKWIN: Not sure really.  I guess it's shot-making really.  Last week was quite soft, 25-under par won, but this week is a bit firmer.  Just play well around links courses.
Q. In terms of these events, Rolex Series, massive points can help make sure you retain your Tour card.
CALLUM SHINKWIN: Yeah, I'm quite a way at the moment.  So first step is trying to keep my card.  Next step is bigger events like the end of the season.
Q. What's changed overall the last three weeks, because you missed three cuts in a row, but since France things seem to be going the right direction for you.
CALLUM SHINKWIN: I actually missed nine cuts in a row actually.  I was working with my coach in France and managed to find an extra piece to the puzzle and try and fix up my season and it's worked so far.
Q. You'll be in one of the final groups tomorrow, so how exciting a prospect is that?
CALLUM SHINKWIN: Yeah, it's good.  I was in the final group last year in China and I learnt from it, make sure my final rounds are much more consistent.  It should be good fun.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT