AVNET LPGA CLASSIC
April 28, 2011
Marcy Hart
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MODERATOR: Marcy, great round today. Take us through your round a little bit, how things went out there. 
 MARCY HART: You know, it was pretty solid; pretty uneventful, I would say. Actually, I thought the course was playing really long. I just made a couple longer putts, you know, and I chipped in once.
 So other than that, it was pretty much mostly pars.
 MODERATOR: This season I know at Kia you had your first top ten in quite a while and then got to play in Kraft. Seems like your game has been going really well. What's been the difference for you so far at the start the season? 
 MARCY HART: It's funny, because I didn't take all of last year off, but I only played three tournaments. Then Reece was born in September, and I didn't really -- well, I did play a couple of times, you know, a month or two after she was born.
 But I haven't practiced or played or done a whole lot. Maybe that's the key. (Laughter.)
 MODERATOR: Sometimes it can help.
 MARCY HART: Yeah.

 Q. Has having her kind of changed your perspective, too, about golf and about worrying about how you play or not worrying?
 MARCY HART: Yeah, definitely. She's definitely my priority now. I don't get a lot of time to play or practice, but when I do get out there, I got to make it count and make it quality. I don't have all the free time that I used to. 

 Q. I was looking at your record from the past couple years, and there haven't been a lot of tournaments. Has there been injuries, or just you haven't had that opportunity to play as much? 
 MARCY HART: Are you talking about last year? 

 Q. Yeah, last year you only had three tournaments. 
 MARCY HART: I was pregnant, so I played...

 Q. Yeah. The years before though did you play pretty full schedules?
 MARCY HART: Yeah. 

 Q. Okay. 
 MARCY HART: I mean, pretty much everything. I don't know that -- I'm trying to think. The last time I went back to Q-School was maybe '09, so, yeah, I pretty much played full schedules besides last year.

 Q. You said you chipped in. Where did you chip in? You said you had some long putts. Tell us where those were and about how long. 
 MARCY HART: Let's see, I putted in from the fringe on 15. 
 I made sort of a long-ish one on 18.
 Then I chipped in on 5? Yeah, 5. 

 Q. You talked about being a mother. When you are out on the practice range or get a chance to practice, I assume that, Okay, this is it. We've got this amount of time. Let's get things in. How has that changed?
 MARCY HART: I mean, it's changed a lot. You know, I used to think that I had to spend a ton of time practicing and be out there for, you know, six hours at a time. I definitely don't do that anymore. If I get one hour, it's good.
 So, you know, I've been playing more. Like when I was at home just these last few weeks I played more than I practiced. Like I said, it's just not my whole life now. 
 So I think it puts things into perspective for sure. 

 Q. Are your parents here caddying and baby-sitting?
 MARCY HART: Yes. Yeah, same routine. 

 Q. When you're home and practicing, what does fill your time? How much time are you doing that? How is it different? Just like a couple hours? 
 MARCY HART: You know, I think before I felt like I had to be out there. Okay, this is my job. I have to be out practicing or playing. 
 Now, you know, with her, I would rather spend my time with her. So like I say, she's my priority, my main focus.
 But then it's like, Oh, maybe I'll go practice for a little bit. So that's -- I spend most of my time with her. Like I say, I played more than I practiced when I was at home this last time. I would rather play than practice. 
 MODERATOR: Anymore questions? Thanks. 
 MARCY HART: Okay. Great. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT