LPGA STATE FARM CLASSIC
August 30, 2007
Marcy Hart
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:  Marcy, thanks for coming in and joining us today.  You're the leader in the clubhouse with a 4 under 68.  Can you talk about your round? 
 MARCY HART:  Well, going into today and into this week, I had told myself that the scores were going to be low, and pretty much going to be a birdie-fest. 
 I mean, you know, I think this course is similar the Rail, and the Rail has always yielded low numbers.  So that's kind of the mindset I went into today with. 
 And, you know, I got started on number 10 with a birdie, so that was a good way to start.  And you know, I hit the ball fairly well, and I made the putts that I needed or should have made that I haven't been making.  So that's pretty much the gist of it today. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Well, speaking of those birdies, can we go over your score card, starting with that birdie on number 10? 
 MARCY HART:  Sure, yeah. 
 THE MODERATOR:  What club you used, how far out you were? 
 MARCY HART:  Actually in the wind was totally different today.  I didn't play the Pro-Am yesterday, so some of the practice rounds it was totally different. 
 But I kind of hooked my drive into obviously the left rough.  And I had 158 to pin.  So we knew it was going to be kind of firm.  So I hit a 5-iron that bounced up and probably went 12, 15 feet past. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Okay.  Then there was a birdie on 13. 
 MARCY HART:  Yes.  I actually played that hole not really the way I had it drawn up.  I kind of skanked my drive off the tee.  It was funny in the practice round Tuesday morning I hit my drive like 305.  And today I hit my drive like 210.  So that was kind of different. 
 And then I laid up to, what did I lay-up to?  Oh, I had 147 yards to the pin.  Not really what I want to lay up to or have on a par 5.  I used the 5-iron and hit it over the green and chipped it in. 
 THE MODERATOR:  From how far out? 
 MARCY HART:  My 5-iron or the chip? 
 THE MODERATOR:  The chip in. 
 MARCY HART:  It was just behind the pin.  I don't know, 10, probably 20 feet, maybe, 20 feet. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Okay.  Then there was another birdie on 14. 
 MARCY HART:  Yeah, I hit my 4 Rescue.  I was playing like 128 yards straight into the wind.  I had a 4 Rescue probably 10 feet. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Okay.  The only bogey on the backside, number 15. 
 MARCY HART:  Yeah, that wasn't very smart.  I hit 3-wood off of that tee, thinking that the wind was helping and it was actually more just left to right.  So it left me with a 6-iron, and I just missed it to the right, and I didn't get it up-and-down. 
 THE MODERATOR:  6-iron from how far? 
 MARCY HART:  I was 162. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Didn't get up-and-down? 
 MARCY HART:  Huh-uh. 
 THE MODERATOR:  And then?  Was there a two-putt there? 
 MARCY HART:  Two-putt, yeah. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Okay, followed that with another birdie on 16. 
 MARCY HART:  Yeah, on 16 I hit a really good draw there, and I only 182 to the pin.  And I had a 5 Rescue to the front right fringe, and actually almost made the putt. 
 THE MODERATOR:  The putt from how far then? 
 MARCY HART:  It was probably 40 feet, I'm guessing. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Birdie on 1? 
 MARCY HART:  Yeah, I just would have drive, laid it up to a good number of 89 yards and hit my 50-degree wedge to like probably 3, 4 feet. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Okay.  Bogey on 4? 
 MARCY HART:  Yeah, 4 was one of those holes where in the practice round we had decided I was going to hit 3-wood.  And the wind was different, and I hit driver and hit it left into the rough.  And then hit my second shot, and it bounced over the green. 
 THE MODERATOR:  How far out was your second shot from? 
 MARCY HART:  142.  I actually hit a pretty decent shot.  But it just hit really hard and went to the back fringe, and putted up there to probably 5 feet and missed it. 
 THE MODERATOR:  What club did you use on your second shot there? 
 MARCY HART:  8-iron. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Followed that with a birdie on 5. 
 MARCY HART:  Yeah, I almost got a hole in one, it was kind of fun.  Hit it to probably not even two feet.  Got ahold of it when it was just short.  That was the 6-iron from 175. 
 THE MODERATOR:  To two feet, almost.  Birdie on -- I'm sorry, bogey on 7. 
 MARCY HART:  Bogey on 7, yeah.  Yeah, I hit 3-wood off the tee and left myself 181. 
 THE MODERATOR:  What club from 181? 
 MARCY HART:  I hit 6-iron, and it bounced over the green.  It was just in the back, not the fringe but that next cut.  And I chipped it up there to probably four or five feet and missed it. 
 THE MODERATOR:  And two-putt. 
 MARCY HART:  Two-putt, yeah. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Finally a birdie on 8. 
 MARCY HART:  8, I hit my drive on the left rough, which isn't terrible over there because it gives you a good angle in.  It was straight into the wind.  I had 138 yards, and I hit it 7-iron thinking that was going to be enough.  And it barely got over the front left bunker, and I had like 50 feet and I made it. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Very nice.  All right, questions for Marcy. 

 Q.  No Top 10s this year.  What's working for you today? 
 MARCY HART:  Well, this year has been a very tough year.  I switched instructors, mainly because I had gotten really mechanical, and I have never played golf -- I just can't play thinking about too many things.  And I was out to have this perfect golf swing, and you know, that's just not going to happen. 
 So, you know, I started working with this new instructor and we basically just worked on the fundamentals as far as grip and ball position that had slipped, and I hadn't even focused on those for a long time. 
 Even though I have some mechanical issues that need work, I just can't think about all of those things when I'm playing.  So I finally just told myself, allowed myself one swing thought to, you know.  And I just stuck with it.  Because a lot of times I'll hit a bad shot, and I'll try to analyze it and try to figure out, oh, what was that all about.  When I just need to stick to my plan and not get all worked up over a bad shot. 

 Q.  The wind factor out here, I think you said you didn't -- did or did not play in the Pro-am yesterday? 
 MARCY HART:  I did not. 

 Q.  Okay, well up until today, the wind was kind of from the other direction.  Obviously it changed a lot of things about the course today. 
 MARCY HART:  I think so, yeah.  I mean, I had planned on hitting a lot more 3-woods today.  But I wound up having to hit driver or, you know, but yeah, it played totally different; for example, on 9 and 18, I think I hit driver on 9.  Or actually 18, because 18 was my ninth hole. 
 I'm pretty sure I hit driver on -- I had to hit driver on both today.  Where normally if there's no wind or downwind, you have to hit 3-wood. 

 Q.  What would it mean to you to win here? 
 MARCY HART:  Well, to win would be amazing.  I'm really I'm just looking for a good, solid week.  I haven't had one of those yet this year.  So, yeah, that's just what I'm after. 
 I mean, I knew coming in it's going to have to be four good, solid rounds of golf to win.  So at least I'm off to a good start. 

 Q.  I don't know an exact count, but it seems like another player said you girls this year have played a lot of new venues, maybe an existing tournament but at a new venue like this.  In recent weeks quite a few of those, where you've got to do a lot of new homework and new yardages and all that stuff compared to some years, I don't know. 
 MARCY HART:  Yeah, it seemed like more, you know, in this four-week stretch here.  You know, Canada's always, you know, it's like our open.  It's always different.  So it's nice to have Portland last week where we're used to it.  And then this week and next week will be something different too. 
 So, yeah, it takes a little bit more out of you to try to learn, because you know when you going back the Rail, everybody knows or at least if you've been on tour, you know the Rail. 
 But you know, this course isn't too extremely tough and taxing where, you know it took a lot.  But I really like this course.  I think it's very nice. 

 Q.  Just the fairways I know in recent days a lot of players said it's really rolling out there.  In the fairways.  Today you're in the fairways, does it seem you're getting as much roll or not as much? 
 MARCY HART:  Not as much, no.  Because the fairways that I noticed all the roll on were into the wind today, so I didn't notice that as much. 

 Q.  What would you do if you hold the course record? 
 MARCY HART:  Well, I don't know.  It's been a while since I've done that. 

 Q.  Are you going to play Arkansas next week, too? 
 MARCY HART:  Yes, I will. 

 Q.  I understand you have a dog named Waverly? 
 MARCY HART:  I do.  I have two dogs but my youngest is Waverly. 

 Q.  There's a town called Waverly about 15 miles from here. 
 MARCY HART:  From here? 

 Q.  From here, yeah? 
 MARCY HART:  I've seen a lot of waiverlies.  But I named my dog Waverly, I won the U.S. Amateur at Waverly Country Club in Portland, and I named him after that.  Actually when we are in Portland we always go back and play it.  So it's fun. 
 I miss my boys, they're always with me on my yardage book. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Thank you for your time. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT