SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY ACER
June 8, 2018
Xiyu Lin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Great job out there.  Can you tell us about your round today.
XIYU LIN: Yeah, it's very like smooth round out there.  I kind of like the early tee times.  Our group was pretty quick.
Then in the morning the breeze is not too strong.  And then have a really good start because the first couple hole wasn't they easy.  I get it through.
And I change a new putter this week, so it's been working fine.
Q. What's the new putter?
XIYU LIN: Toulon.  Yeah, I don't know what's the name of that.
Q. Is this the first time you're using it, putting it into play?
XIYU LIN: Yeah.  Because I did a lot of like technical changes on the putting.  Like I went from left-hand down to right-hand and then all the line and things.
Old putter was good, but it's just when you like totally switch around you kind of need a new look on the putter.  I think like I kind of like it a lot.
Q. So you made all those technical changes during the season or leading up?
XIYU LIN: Well, I mean, starting -- at the start of the year when I started working with new coach I been doing so many different things.  Especially like today, all the long games worked really well.  I think that's like the part that's starting to settle down.
Short game I guess just need more time to get my confidence back.  So it's not big change, but just like how you do it on the course.
Q. So you're doing right-hand low now?  When did you switch?
XIYU LIN: After Dallas.
Q. Who is the new coach?
XIYU LIN: Tony Ziegler.
Q. Were there any tough holes out there?
XIYU LIN: There are.  Like 16 the pin was tough.  I mean, because this year, I mean with the rain I think the greens getting little softer.  Normally 16 hole when the pin is at the back you can land it just on top and the ball will release down.  My ball just stop there.  So that one is a little bit hard.
Then 11 hole, the par-3, the pin position is really tough today.  You can only end up on the left side and will face a long putt or long chip.
So, yeah, I think there are couple of them.
Q. So you have the rest of the day to hang out.  Any plans?
XIYU LIN: Keep working on my game a little bit and like just relax.
Q. You kind of had an injury that bothered you and made you withdraw from a tournament a few weeks ago.  How are you feeling now?
XIYU LIN: Oh, yeah, from Ann Arbor.  I think it was like everything together, because I have such bad allergy there.  I sneeze like 20 times a day.  I guess that puts a lot of pressure on the back as well.
And then also while I -- this year I think never hitting that many balls when I'm practicing because I doing all the swing changes.
But it's just the muscle stuff.  Just getting tight.  It's no big deal.  It's getting better.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT