ROLAND GARROS
May 31, 2017
Renzo Olivo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
R. OLIVO/Jw. Tsonga   
7-5, 6-4, 6-7, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  It's a fantastic exploit.  Could you just talk me through it?  You seemed very calm yesterday, very cool today.  You said you didn't sleep much.  But a fantastic victory for you.  
RENZO OLIVO: Thank you.  Yeah, it was a very difficult match against a really tough opponent like Jo.  And he was playing home.  I knew it was going to be hard.  It was going to be crowdy.   
And I think I did it the best way.  I tried to keep it calm, but tried to be the more aggressive as possible as I try to be always, and I think I did it the right way.  I found a great balance and it went the best way.   
 Q.  Just wondered how much do you know about Kyle Edmund or had you not even bothered to look beyond Tsonga in your draw this week?  
RENZO OLIVO: I played him once in a challenger in Buenos Aires.  He's a great player, he's young, and he has a lot of potential.  I think it's going to be a great match.  I found out I was playing against him after my match today.   
So, yeah, I think I haven't thinking the tactics or anything, so I will do it after with my coach.  But, yeah, he's a great player.  So I hope I do well.   
 Q.  Can you put down your great performance here to any particular reason that you played so well here?  Anything change?  Anything different?  
RENZO OLIVO: I think I change coach a few weeks ago.  It's something new.  So it's been four weeks.  The three first weeks it was something different, so I didn't do well in the last tournaments.   
But I think now I'm playing better.  I feel confident and finding the right balance.  So I don't know.  I think that is the reason.  And another reason is that I like to play on big courts.  So it was crowdy and I really liked it.   
 Q.  Who is your new coach?  What's his name, please?  
RENZO OLIVO: Javier Nalbandian.   
 Q.  You obviously played very late last night and then out again today.  How are you feeling physically, and do you think you'll be recovered okay for the next match?  
RENZO OLIVO: Yeah.  I think I haven't slept well, I don't think.  I didn't sleep well.  And I finished everything at around 1:00 in the morning.  So it was really late.  And then after, with the adrenaline of the match, I couldn't sleep much.  So it was tough.   
I was thinking in the first point, all I wanted was to win the first point.  So I was thinking about that all night.   
 Q.  Do you know David Nalbandian very well?  Have you taken advice off him as well?  
RENZO OLIVO: No, not really.  I know him a little.   
 Q.  You said on court that you had spent four years in Paris or in France training.  Could you just talk a bit about that?  Between 12 and 16, that's quite young to come away.  
RENZO OLIVO: Yeah, I was really young.  It was a tough decision for me.  But if I wanted to keep on playing, it was the only way.  I was having trouble with money and my father couldn't support my career anymore.   
And I was really young and there is -- you need to have a big budget to get into the best level.  So I couldn't make it if wasn't moving here.  Because it was an academy and sponsored.  I was sponsored by this academy too.   
 Q.  In Paris?  
RENZO OLIVO: In Paris.   
 Q.  What was the name of the academy?  
RENZO OLIVO: Mouratoglou.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT