AMERICAN CENTURY CHAMPIONSHIP
July 14, 2007
Grant Fuhr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   PHIL WEIDINGER:  Grant, second place, second day in a row in the interview room with the media folks.  Tell us a little bit about your round today. 
 GRANT FUHR:  Well, start of the round today was actually pretty good.  Hit a lot of greens at the beginning.  Made some good putts.  The back nine, for some reason, just couldn't find the speed.  I left myself a lot of 5- and 6-footers for par. 
 And 16, hit it over the green.  Kind of hit it, a little bit of a fat chip shot and missed about a 5-footer for par. 
 17, managed to leave myself about five feet again for par. 
 And then 3-putted 18 for a par from about probably seven or eight feet.  So overall it was a pretty good round of golf.  Hit it pretty solid.  Just putting was a little suspect under the gun. 

 Q.  Speaking of under the gun, you saw who took the lead today; your thoughts on that? 
 GRANT FUHR:  I'm not surprised.  I mean, obviously Rick's probably the best player out here.  So he'll be a fun guy to chase.  You look forward to the challenge of having to beat the best guy.  So the fact that I'm close enough to be in the chase, I like that. 

 Q.  What do you think it's going to take tomorrow, whether -- a number, and also how you feel going in? 
 GRANT FUHR:  I'm thinking if a guy can put together 24, 25 points tomorrow, I think you've got a legitimate shot at it.  I'm guessing you're going to have to shoot 3- or 4-under.  You know Rick's not going to beat himself.  I think that's something he's proven over the years; that he's not going to beat himself.  If he's going to get beat, somebody is going to have to go out and beat him. 

 Q.  So what kind of strategy would you have, just stay the same? 
 GRANT FUHR:  Same.  Try to hit a lot of greens, give myself lots of chances and hopefully the putter behaves a little bit more.  I have goalie's hands, that's the problem.  (Laughing) 

 Q.  What about your game, each year you seem to get better and better.  What have you done in the past year that's made your game even better than it was last year? 
 GRANT FUHR:  Just trusting it more.  I know I hit the ball crisply most of the time.  Just short game needed some improvement and the putting had to improve a little bit.  It keeps improving every year.  I keep working at it a little more. 
 I know under the gun the putting has to get a little bit better.  I have days now where under the gun, I'll make some putts, so at least I give myself some chances. 

 Q.  How is the course this year compared to last year? 
 GRANT FUHR:  The course is good.  It's nice and lush.  Some of the greens are really full and they are receptive to shots.  So if you hit good shots, you get rewarded for it. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT