ROLAND GARROS
September 28, 2020
Alize Cornet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  A.CORNET/C. Paquet
 6-3, 6-2
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. Over the years playing in front of home crowd has been an advantage for some players and a disadvantage for others.  How do you see it and do you think it's an advantage for French players when there's a full crowd or is there less pressure when there is not so many people there?
 ALIZE CORNET:   Yeah, it's a good question and it's a tricky answer because it really depends, actually.  It happened to me that on some matches the crowd was just going crazy for me and helping me and just lifting me up during the match.
 And some other times when I felt so much pressure and I was actually drowning in this pressure.
 So I think overall it's mostly positive for French player, but the French crowd is very exigent, very tough to conquer.  So if you don't like play your best or have the best attitude on court, they can be like really tough with you.
 So I would say that it's a different experience, it's a new experience and I enjoyed it tonight, it was much more quiet, of course, but we kind of got used to it in the US Open so it doesn't bother me any more.
 Q. In New York I asked you about your consecutive Grand Slam streak, which is now 55.  I have it in front of me.  So if you reach 62, which will be two years, you can break the record.  But I wanted to ask, were there ever times in these 14, maybe 15 years where you were really close to missing a slam and you somehow found a way to play it, fight through the pain of an injury or something like that?
 ALIZE CORNET:   Actually, no, and that's a miracle I was never close not to play a slam, I was always fit and ready to play.  Okay, I had sometimes pain here and there, but I was never like, oh, shit, I might miss this one, I was always there.
 And it's, yeah, it's a miracle that the streak is going on for 55 times.  I mean, I cannot believe it.  I feel kind of old with this record, but in the same time I don't know if I see myself playing two whole more years, so I cannot tell you if I might break the record, but we'll see.  I just try to enjoy every slam like it was the last, you know?  I think that's the secret.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT