ROLAND GARROS
June 1, 2017
Alize Cornet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. CORNET/B. Strycova   
6-4, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  A little bit off match, but I just want to know if you ever heard anything about the little argument between Kiki and Sara, Mladenovic and Sara Errani yesterday.  
ALIZÉ CORNET: The forza whatever?   
 Q.  Exactly.  I want to know if you have some thoughts about it.  
ALIZÉ CORNET: Reminds me some memories (smiling).  Seems like she doesn't like when you support yourself in a different language.   
No, just makes me laugh, of course.  Because I had the same story with her with the "vamos" in Toronto.  It makes me laugh a lot.   
But I don't think they argued, like, really badly.  I think it's just the emotion that can go through on the match during the match.  I think she got just pissed, and that's it.   
But of course, it was this similar situation was really funny to me, I have to say.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.   
 Q.  What a fight, for about one hour.  4-3, 56 minutes.  Do you think at that point at 4-3, 4-2, this was a turning point?  
ALIZÉ CORNET: Yes.  I had a 2-0, 2-3, a 3-0 point where -- there was this great point where I did a dropshot.  I was actually behind, and then able to come back.  I think it really frustrated her to see that I wasn't giving up.   
Then I was getting better.  I was playing better and better.  I really tried to stay calm.  I knew that she was going to be nervous, that it would make her nervous.  I didn't want to give anything away.   
First of all, I came to 4-4.  At that point I started to feel really good.  Then I took the lead at 5-4, and then I knew I could make the difference.  I was able to then demonstrate that in the second set.  The beginning of the second set was also a very important moment.  But I knew I could do it and I wasn't going to give up.   
 Q.  You have had some physical trouble.  How do you feel today?  
ALIZÉ CORNET: I feel great.  Can't you see?  I can run well.  I'm 27.  Of course I have little glitches here and there, but it's not age related.  I think this happens to all players.  But playing with no pain and no questions is just great.   
Especially after having spent three months being injured, I'm really happy that time-wise it's just perfect.  I have really recovered.   
 Q.  Physically you feel well?  Your game play is obviously good, right?  
ALIZÉ CORNET: Absolutely.  Even during training I could feel that I was really hitting that ball very well, and I was playing good tennis.  I could also tell right before the French Open that mentally I was doing well.   
Today I have just delivered.  It's not always easy.  Each match is complicated.  Playing on the center court is never that obvious.  Even if this is my 13th French Open.  I think, you know, I'm rewarded for the hard work.  It's paying off.   
 Q.  Who do you train with?  I'm not sure I understand.  
ALIZÉ CORNET: Well, it's quite special.  Right now my boyfriend is taking care of me.  My parents are.  My physio, my brother.  So we are a strong team, all together.  I need people who know me inside out.  My boyfriend knows me inside out.  He plays tennis, too.  And that is important.  In Strasbourg, I was with a coach from the Mouratoglou Academy, and after this I think I will just work with other people who know me very well.   
Once again, I need to be surrounded by friends, by people I like, people I like to spend time with who know what to tell me.   
So that's my mindset going forward.  Of course I need my physio to be with me.  This is very important, as well.  So little by little, you know, things are getting organized also with -- Patrick's academy has been very helpful.  He's been very supportive.  I work with people I like, and that counts the most.   
 Q.  With coaches it's never easy, so it's now coach/boyfriend?  Isn't that complicated?  
ALIZÉ CORNET: Well, it's just here.  He has a job.  He took a week off just to come here.   
But, no, I don't want this, you know, in the long run.  But it's working for now.  You know, it's great.  He likes it, and I like it.  But in the future maybe I'll use the coach from the academy.   
You know, I want to play it by ear.  I know myself very well.  I know more or less where to go.   
 Q.  You said you need people who know you.  In terms of tennis or you mean just personally, to have personal conversations?  
ALIZÉ CORNET: Both.  Tennis.  People who know me mentally.  People I can also -- you know, it's not easy to have people you can trust.  Working with people you can fully trust really makes a difference, and that's what I want.  Sometimes I need to, you know, tell what I have in the bottom of my heart, and that kind of conversations can sometimes liberate things, including for my tennis.  Mentally it can liberate me.   
For example, over the past weeks, I have spent a lot of time talking with the people surrounding me, and this is very helpful.  It really supports me when I'm on the court and when I play.   
I have always considered that communication is very important.   
 Q.  In the next round you'll be playing Radwanska.  Do you like to play Radwanska?  
ALIZÉ CORNET: I haven't played her much on clay.  I played her on hard courts.  I defeated her twice, I think.   
On clay I may be better off.  She doesn't play as fast.  Her game play is very different.  The way she counterattacks, the way she manages her play is very different when she's on clay.   
She doesn't play as much above the shoulder, for example.  I'm going to try and be consistent.  I have had a lot of variation in my game, and hopefully I can play with her, tactically speaking.   
But I have no doubts.  She will probably seek to do the same thing.  So we'll see.  I think it will be an interesting match, no doubts.   
 Q.  There is a new crocodile in the Lacoste family.  How does that feel being along with Novak Djokovic?  
ALIZÉ CORNET: I told him, Welcome to the Lacoste family.  He said, Thanks for accepting me.  I said, Well, it's not like we had much of a choice, which he thought was hilarious.  I'm very happy.   
He's not my favorite player.  Don't get me wrong.  I like him.  I think he's a nice person, and I'm very happy that Lacoste is becoming, you know, more modern.  First of all, he's a great player, he's a very strong player, he has a very dynamic image, he's a pleasant person.  Hopefully they will keep a little bit of budget for other players, too.  I think it's good, and hopefully we'll get another chance to talk again.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT