ROLAND GARROS
May 28, 2016
Alize Cornet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
V. WILLIAMS/A. Cornet   
7-6, 1-6, 6-0   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.   
 Q.  Would you say that for the third set it was only a physical match, or do you think there are other reasons why you lost?  
ALIZE CORNET: No.  It was not physical at all.  I was feeling rather good, given the circumstances.  I think that Venus decided to speed up at the beginning of the third set mainly with her first serves and also the returns.  Therefore, I didn't know what to do.   
Whereas during the second set, I had the impression there was a lot more like a fight with more rallies, but she wanted to be more aggressive and shorten the rallies.  I had two serve games when I was up and then it was 4-Love after 20 minutes.  It was really difficult, and then she decided to win the match.   
 Q.  There was a moment when you said something like, I can't hit the balls with my forehand.  I don't know what to do.  Was it technical or a physical problem?  
ALIZE CORNET: No, no, no, nothing physical.  It's just that I couldn't really hit the balls the way I wanted on my forehand.  I had some fears with my forehands, but during the match, it was better.  I had deeper balls, and that's how I bothered her.  I managed to win the second set.  But it was a mental obstacle I had in my head with the pressure.  I couldn't really play the way I wanted with my arm.   
 Q.  I think the first time you played against her was in 2008?  
ALIZE CORNET: 2007.   
 Q.  Would you say that her balls are still very heavy or bothering you?  Would you say that there is the weight of yours on her that she's less consistent?  
ALIZE CORNET: I can't remember.  At the time I was 17.  I played a very good match, even though I was defeated in two sets.  Yet I had courage at the time, and I think that this is quite exceptional, to be able to stay at this level at the age of 36 or perhaps 35.  I mean, it's something that gets on our nerves, you know, I mean, for us.  And she managed to kill me when she wanted to during the third set.   
She has so much experience.  She's a great champion.  Maybe she's less consistent than before, but just a little.  She's still in the top 10.  Nobody notices she's less consistent.  So you have to play full seasons.  I fully respect what she does.   
 Q.  I have a question about Jo-Wilfried Tsonga.  Have you heard about this?  What do you feel generally speaking about the fact he pulled out?  
ALIZE CORNET: I learned this after my match.  I was so sad about what happened.  I think he had an adductor injury.  I share his disappointment.  I sympathize.  It's so hard to have to retire due to an injury.  And he was up 5-2, and it really is sad that he has to retire this way.  Rafa yesterday; Jo today.  This is very difficult, all this bad news.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT