ROLAND GARROS
May 26, 2016
Alize Cornet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. CORNET/T. Maria   
6-3, 6-7, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  She was pretty upset after the match saying that you hadn't done fair play because she thought you were cramping and getting treatment that shouldn't have been allowed for that.  Just wondering what you thought about that and the interaction, how the match ended?  
ALIZE CORNET: Well, I didn't understand so much why she was so mad at me.  She even told me when we shake hands that she thought I was not fair play.   
Well, I didn't choose to cramp at the end of the second set, and I didn't choose to have this pain in my leg, and I needed a treatment for that.  I didn't take a treatment for my cramp because I know the rule, and I respect it.   
So actually, my right leg was totally pulling apart and not treating, but I had the treatment for my hip because I felt a pain.  I went totally by the rule, and I'm really sorry she got so pissed because this is useless.   
I understand she's disappointed.  It was tough match for both of us, but I didn't do anything nonfair play.  I'm not this kind of player.   
 Q.  Just to clarify, the pain you had later in the match was different than cramping, you're saying?  
ALIZE CORNET: Yeah, yeah, it is.  Actually, I was cramping from my right leg, pretty much everywhere, but the left leg was a different pain.  I explained the physios straightaway, we had trouble to communicate with the crowd and stuff, and I was very emotional because of the pain.   
But actually, yeah, I got the treatment for this pain that I couldn't push on my leg when I had to serve.  And that's it.  I mean, that's exactly what happened.  The physio, she had done revolution of my leg and she determined that I needed a treatment, so that's it.  That's the end of the story.   
 Q.  Were you surprised that she was so angry after the match?  
ALIZE CORNET: Yeah.  Yeah, I was surprised, because, as I said, I went by the rules and I didn't try to get overtime or something.  I mean, I had one medical timeout.  That's all I got.  Then she came during the changeover, she was trying to massage me, this leg, the left one.   
But it's not like I used three or four medical timeouts for different pain.  I just used one for what I needed.   
So this is, for me, this is not -- she is not fair saying that.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.   
 Q.  Could you perhaps tell us more about this, how the pain appeared and what you felt during the match?  Because I had the impression you suffered a lot.  
ALIZE CORNET: Well, you know, the cramps, that hurts.  A lot, a lot, a lot.  I hadn't had cramps for a long time.  I had a general cramp on the right leg.  The leg was like it was made of wood.  I thought I wouldn't be able to walk any longer.   
During the third set I thought, when am I going to retire, or will the cramps come back.   
I took a lot of salt, I drank more, and it felt a bit better afterwards.   
But they appeared at the end of the second set, end of the second set, that's when I started hurting in my leg, the quadriceps.  Then other pains, the ones I mentioned before in English, that is, in the left leg, but that was not a cramp.  That was like contracted muscles.   
There was so much tension at the end of the second set that this is what happened.  It's a bit strange, because usually I don't have cramps, you see.   
So this was very, very difficult.  I had a lot of pain even though we know that a cramp is not at all serious, it's so painful that you lose your reason on the court.  It's a good thing I managed to end my match.  And finish it was a good thing, a first victory, and to win it was totally unexpected.   
 Q.  Could you tell us more about your emotions today, the negative emotions with the cramps, but then what happened with the audience and the people with you?  
ALIZE CORNET: Well, yeah, lots of positive things during the match.  Well, first because my game level during two sets was really good before I had the cramps, before my leg hurt.   
It was really a good level.  I could have concluded in two sets.  Okay.  I'm never satisfied, as you know.  Since I'm never satisfied, I think it could have been easier for me today.   
But also, it's very positive, positive because I was going beyond the physical pain, and I won in three sets.  And the most positive thing, in all of that, is the support I got from the crowd, from the audience, and mainly during the third set.  That was totally magical, completely magical.  I couldn't even believe this, to have such an atmosphere.   
I carried them with me into my world.  It was wonderful.  It's only at Roland Garros that these things do happen.   
A few days ago I read an article which saddened me a little.  There were journalists who were saying that women's tennis without Serena Williams is something that people don't think about and would sleep over.   
Now, that's not the expression, please rest assured there is good future for women's tennis, and you're not going to fall asleep.  And the people who watched this match can tell you that this is correct.   
 Q.  Now, you had contracted muscles in the right leg?  
ALIZE CORNET: No, in the left leg.  It's different.   
 Q.  This can have an impact on the following round?  
ALIZE CORNET: Contracted muscles.  It's not an elongation -- oh, no, it's not a pulled muscle.  It's something that hurts, but you can still play.  You can manage this if you have treatment.   
You know, we, the tennis players, we always hurt.  You never get on the court being totally clean or fresh or totally liberated from all types of pains.   
We have pains, all of us, always.  And then some pains are serious.  Others are not.  And I know that this is a pain.  But if I take a rest for 48 hours and with treatment, it will be okay, I hope.   
 Q.  I think that on Twitter with Kristina, as well, you talk a lot about women's matches and how they're broadcast?  
ALIZE CORNET: No, we're not pissed off.  We are a bit sad because we see that women's matches are not really broadcast on TV.  I think that many people would like to see us play.  Sometimes they're really very interesting, but not all matches.  It's the same for men, as well.  Some matches are rotten.  It's the same for girls.   
But sometimes I think that people miss this, the spectators, because the channels, and mainly maybe France 2 channel, they don't broadcast our matches.  They should think about this twice and give us more credit.  We deserve this.  Many people have this passion, passion for tennis, in general, not just tennis for men.   
Roland Garros is la fete du tennis, the celebration of tennis.  Therefore, we have to think about men and women.   
 Q.  Your opponent had harsh words against you.  What do you think about playing doubles against her tomorrow?  
ALIZE CORNET: Oh, I had not thought about this.  Well, if she does this a second time, she's going to be mad at me.  I don't know.  Maybe she'll sleep over it.  Maybe she'll realize that, you know, it's because she was disappointed that she said that.  Otherwise we will do what we usually do.  That is, we are professional players.  We'll play the match.   
Maybe we'll be a bit angry and nervous.  Maybe probably a lot.  But we will try and set these things aside.  We don't want to be negatively aggressive, otherwise this match will be unplayable.   
But we'll see.   
 Q.  (off microphone.)  
ALIZE CORNET: To have explanations with her?  I don't think so.  It's 10:00 p.m.   
 Q.  (off microphone.)  
ALIZE CORNET: I don't think she's ready for this now.  Maybe we'll wait for tomorrow when we are in the locker rooms.  We'll see.  It depends.  I'm in favor of communication.  If there is anything that's unclear, I want to explain things.  But if I don't pop into her I'm not going to run after her so that we explain things.   
 Q.  Now, if you were to rank these matches...  
ALIZE CORNET: I have played many.  This is top 5.  Top 5.  Top 5 match.  Given the atmosphere.  So crammed with emotions for everybody.   
 Q.  How would you explain these cramps?  Is it due to stress or is it physical preparation that was not...  
ALIZE CORNET: Well, I was thinking about this during the match.  I thought, why do I have these cramps?  They have not appeared for ten years.  I don't really know what the explanation is offhand, but yesterday I played three hours doubles, maybe I didn't drink enough, so maybe I was slightly dehydrated.  You know, usually you have water reserves and energy reserves that you pump up the day before the match.  So maybe that's it.  Plus the pressure, tension.  My legs were a bit heavy, tension, it accentuates the whole thing.   
Apart from that, since back from my injuries, I have never had such a physical match that was so physically difficult for me.   
Maybe my preparation -- I don't know.  I don't know.  I don't know.  It's so difficult.  You know, two months when I didn't play due to an injury, so I couldn't really assess my physical condition.  I thought I was okay.  But we'll see.  This match perhaps is a new deal, and I think that there are other factors, not just this.   
 Q.  Back to your leg that you said was like wood, when the umpire and the physiotherapy came to you to help you, they saw that your leg was like wood, so why did they...  
ALIZE CORNET: Well, the physiotherapy is not allowed to treat me for a cramp, even though I would be dying for a cramp.  It's the rule.   
 Q.  I know.  
ALIZE CORNET: So she was still treating my pain in the left leg.   
 Q.  If there's no pain in the left leg, you can't continue.  The match would be lost for you.  
ALIZE CORNET: Well, she has the -- I think, I think, she has the right to come but just for the changeover to massage my leg.  I think she's had the right to do this, but no medical treatment due to a cramp, I think.   
It's very complicated, you know, these rules.  I can't remember what happened when I had the cramp.  I didn't have any medical treatment.  She came to me, the physiotherapist, and she massaged I think my left leg, not even three minutes, just the time -- oh, no, no, no, oh, I don't know.  I can't remember what's happened.  What was it?  When it was 2-1?  Oh, yeah, yeah.   
So, you know, when she came to me at the end of the set, because I had a cramp, I told her, I said, Now, please look at my left leg because I have a pain in the left leg.  But we had to discuss this and the changeover was over.  It was over, so no time.  She said, I'm going to come back to you for your left leg during three games.  During these three games I had so many damn cramps.  She came for my left leg and I wanted her to massage this very painful leg.   
At the end of the day, it was better for me.  I could have better serves.  These small details that count, you know, and they counted at that moment, which was a good thing for me.   
 Q.  You were talking about your game level.  I suppose that the weeks before Roland Garros were not easy for you.  How did you manage to start again?  
ALIZE CORNET: Well, I had very good one week to prepare myself.  I practiced a lot during the days before the tournament, and I gained more confidence in my shots.   
But the best thing is a win.  Nothing replaces a match or the points you gain.  When it was Tuesday against Kirsten on the court, I didn't exactly know what to do, but I had practiced so much that I had enough confidence for the second round, today.  And then mentally, as well.  Mentally I had long discussions with my coaches.   
These are things you have to prepare well in advance.  It's a good thing that I was ready for the French Open.   
 Q.  Could you tell us about your next opponent, Venus?  What do you think about her?  
ALIZE CORNET: Well, Venus.  I have never defeated her so far.  It's going to be difficult.  I'll have to be in a good physical condition and recover from this match today.  I have to be at 100% almost, even though it's going to be more difficult.  I know I played against her in 2007 on the central court and I had lost.  I was 17.  It was 6-4, 6-3 that she won, I think.   
I know that I have to play an excellent match, but at the same time I have the impression that in Paris anything can happen.  I expect anything.   
You know, this year's Venus is different from two years ago when I saw her play in Dubai.  I think she's more playable.  I'll see.  I'll use my strengths, and my skills and the crowd to have another win.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT