ROLAND GARROS
May 24, 2016
Alize Cornet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. CORNET/K. Flipkens   
6-1, 6-0   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.   
 Q.  A perfect start to the tournament.  You needed some confidence.  6-1, 6-Love, isn't it perfect?  
ALIZE CORNET: It's perfect.  I got off to a good start, a solid match.  A consistent display.  This is what I like.  I set up my game very well in order to defeat her.  I didn't expect such a quick win, but when I play like that, I don't allow my opponent to express herself.   
So I enjoyed playing with the crowd.  This is very magical, Roland Garros.  I'm delighted to be back.   
 Q.  So you posted fewer victories than in the past going up to Roland Garros.  Did you have some questions in your mind?  
ALIZE CORNET: In the past I won in Strasbourg.  I was building with confidence, so it was supposed to be easier, but this year it is totally different.  But of course, it's better to be beaming with confidence, because here at the French Open we are under stress.   
But today I managed to play well.  Mentally I was solid, tough.  I didn't think about the previous matches.  I thought about my tactics.  That's all.  I wanted to be efficient.  That's all.   
 Q.  A word about your next opponent, Tatjana, who has defeated Jankovic.  
ALIZE CORNET: Oh, right, I didn't know that.  Tatjana, right, I played against her a long time ago.  She had a two-handed backhand but now she has a one-handed backhand.  I think she had a very good season last year or the year before.  She can play tennis very well.  I mean, she has a good vision of a game.   
She is a great defender, so whether Jankovic or Maria, I will have to be focused.  I won't put some pressure upon my shoulders.  I don't want to fall into the typical traps of Roland Garros.  It's match after match.  I will really focus on my own objectives.   
 Q.  What about your objectives?  
ALIZE CORNET: I don't know.  It's a match-after-match approach.  Like last year, I think that each match that I win is positive.  I hope that I will win lots of matches.   
I mean, last year I reached the 16th stage.  So I just want to enjoy being on court.   
I hope that the adventure will last long.  I have some objectives in terms of my games.   
 Q.  Things have changed.  Your mindset has changed?  
ALIZE CORNET: Yes, maybe.  I mean, every year you have a different approach to the French Open, but now I try to set myself some objectives that are more practical, concrete, in terms of game, in terms of tactics.   
I don't think too much about the results because most of the time you don't focus on what is essential.  So I try to implement what I have done in practice, so it worked out well today.   
 Q.  What about the Olympic Games?  I mean, you don't think about the Olympic Games?  
ALIZE CORNET: Of course I'm thinking about the Olympic Games.  I knew that if I won today I would be in a position to go to the Olympic Games.  I have been thinking about it for the past few weeks, and this didn't help me.  So I decided to focus on the nitty-gritty of the game, and when I was up 6-1, 5-Love, I thought maybe I will go to the Olympic Games.  It's a dream.   
And when you win a match, I know that I would be able to take part in the Olympic Games, but I think that I will be there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT