US OPEN
September 5, 2020
Alize Cornet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  A. CORNET/M. Keys
 7-6, 3-2 (ret.)
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. Finally breaking through to the round of 16 at the US Open and completing the quartet.  How amazing would it be if you finally got to the quarterfinal in you're 57th major?
 ALIZE CORNET:   First of all, I'll trying to enjoy the fact that I'm finally reaching the fourth round here.  It's been something I've been looking for I don't know when.  Then I will project myself on the potential quarterfinal maybe tomorrow.
 But for tonight, yeah, I really want to enjoy the one and a half sets that I did really good.  Of course, I'm sad it ended this way, that Madison was in pain.
 I really deserved this first set.  I was really solid in the beginning of the second set.  I'm happy that the hard work is paying off.
 Q. How much pride do you take in the fact that you have now played 54 consecutive majors, more than any other active player?  Would you like to break the record?
 ALIZE CORNET:   Is it 54 or is it more?  I thought it was 55.  I'm losing count actually (laughter).  Maybe you're right.  I don't know.
 Yeah, I'm pretty proud of this record, let's say, because it just means that my career has been very consistent since I'm 17.  It's not easy never to be injured, never to win a slam, not to drop in the ranking.  I've been between 10 and 90 for my whole career, so it's quite a good consistency I'll say.
 I'm not a player that gives up.  I'm 30 years old.  I'm finally reaching the fourth round at any slam and I'm proud of this resilience.
 Q. What was your reaction when you heard that Kristina Mladenovic had been withdrawn from doubles?  Do you feel she was treated unfairly?
 ALIZE CORNET:   Wow, I was shocked.  I wrote her directly to know what was going on.  I think she's a bit overwhelmed by everything.  I can understand it because it's quite a story out there.  I'm not sure I have all the information needed to have an opinion on this.
 But it's definitely weird because she could play her first round of singles and first round of doubles, and now suddenly she's kicked out from the draw.  I think it's very brutal.
 I'm really not sure what to think about it.  Something for sure is that I am very sad for her, very sad she has to stay here.  When she's negative and she could be home.  I mean, everybody wants to go home when they're done with the tournament.  Now she has to stay here.  I know it's part of the rule, but I think it's still pretty brutal to be kicked out this way.
 Q. You had to work very hard in the first set to absorb her power, be in there.  You said on court the challenge is the physicality you have to bring to the court against Madison.  What were the keys in terms of getting through the first set?  If the first set doesn't go your way, maybe things are a little bit different.
 ALIZE CORNET:   Yeah, of course, you never know.  The beginning of the second set was also crucial because I had a lot of breakpoints to serve.  You never know, if I get broken in the beginning of the second set, it might be a different scenario.
 But about this first set, I'm really proud because I was fighting on every point.  Even when I was a set down, I stayed really focused, I stayed positive.  I was really trying to apply the tactical plan that we set up with Sandra, which was not easy because Madison is definitely playing super fast, like it's crazy the ball sometimes.  In the second set I took a return, I couldn't even play the ball.  Literally the ball came through me.
 It was definitely very important to be ready with my legs and to use these legs to bring the ball back as many times possible.  When I had the chance, I tried to go to the net.  I tried to do different things when she gave me the chance.  But I didn't have this chance often.
 Yeah, definitely a really good set of tennis from me.  It's a lesson that I have to learn.  I'm learning on every matches here, so that's great.
 Q. Early in the Cincinnati tournament you said you were mentally fresh, that when you're mentally fresh it's easier for you to fight, dig in, not get negative.  How much has that paid off for you?  Your first three rounds here have not been straightforward and easy, have been up and down.
 ALIZE CORNET:   I guess it's the same for everyone.  When you're fresh mentally, you can dig deep easily I guess.  It's not that special.  The thing is that, yeah, these three matches really teach me that I have a big strength inside of me, and sometimes I think I underrate this strength that I have, this mental strength.  Usually I get overwhelmed with my emotion, I get nervous, then I'm being negative.
 On these three rounds, I was very consistent in my thoughts, in my attitude.  That's how I play my best tennis.  That's how I at least find a way to win.  That's really great.
 I'm happy to be back from this six months of break with this state of mind, this mindset.  It's going to be very important to keep it also for Roland Garros because I think on clay I can even be tougher to beat if I fight this way.
 Q. Looking ahead to playing Tsvetana, who is back, who you played way back in the past.  Reflect on what she's done and what you're going to need to do to make the quarterfinal.
 ALIZE CORNET:   Yeah, I saw her.  I didn't know at all I was on her side of the draw.  I saw her after her match in the locker room.
 I asked her, Did you win?
 She was like, Yeah.
 She looked surprise, even herself.
 I said, Oh my God, no one can stop you.  What a comeback.
 We were laughing.  I've known her a long time, been playing together for years.  She's back like this, like nothing happened, and is playing the best tennis of her life.  It's really impressive.
 Yeah, I remember losing against her in the past, so I know she can play great tennis, especially amazing backhand.  I might be the favorite for once tomorrow, like a real favorite.  I don't care.  It's going to be a good challenge anyway.  We will see how it goes.
 I will talk with Sandra about the match tomorrow and how to approach this match the best way possible because I've never made it to the quarterfinal in a slam.  It's going to be definitely special for me to play on Monday.  Maybe a little bit more pressure, but I'm ready for the challenge.  I'm excited.
 Q. Tsvetana said you're always fighting until the last point.  How would you describe what makes you so determined?
 ALIZE CORNET:   What a reputation I have.  I like it (laughter).
 What makes me so determined?  I don't know.  I've always been this way.  I'm such a competitor.  I love competition.  I love winning.  I think I'm addicted to this winning feeling.  That's why I never let go.  It's because I'm always trying till the very end, never giving up.  I'm this way also in my private life.  That's who I am.  I guess it's in my DNA.  I cannot do a lot about it.
 The girls, they know me for this.  I have a lot of other default [sic], but for sure I'm never giving up.  It's going to be a great battle on Monday.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT