ROLAND GARROS
May 27, 2015
Alize Cornet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  A. CORNET/A. Dulgheru  6-2, 7-5    THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.   Q.  The result doesn't reflect the big fight you had to fight on the court today.  We get the feeling that you have stepped up in your game since Strasbourg.  ALIZE CORNET: Yes, it was quite good today despite the fact that I didn't play well in the second set, but I managed to come back.  I really managed to improve my level, and I'm quite happy because I was a bit afraid of playing this girl.  She beat me already, so this is my revenge.  I took my revenge on Vinci, on her. I have never played against Lucic, but I hope it's going to be a good first time.   Q.  What do you have to say about Halep's defeat playing against Lucic?  ALIZE CORNET: Well, I don't want to talk about it.  I don't want to think about it, because I want to enjoy this win. I was very surprised when I heard the news.  I was expecting to play Halep rather than Mirjana, but we all know that Lucic is capable of both the best and the worst.  We have seen it in Strasbourg when she was leading 6-4, 5-0 and she lost.  So she had to play a very big match to win against Simona. So I will prepare.  I will try and be fresh and I think if I can play long and be good on defense it will be a problem for her.   Q.  But this defeat opens a beautiful avenue for you.  ALIZE CORNET: We'll see.  Each match is difficult.  If Lucic has won to Halep today, it's because she is at the level to do that.  So it's going to be a difficult third round for me. I don't want to draw any conclusion, but I do think my game can be a problem for Lucic, and I hope I can show that on Friday.   Q.  Have you changed anything in your game before you came here?  Apparently you put less pressure on yourself.  You take things on day by day.  ALIZE CORNET: Well, this has been my mindset for the last few months, and it does work here.  It's great.  But this is the outcome I was expecting, and I was on a good momentum with no success. But reaching the third round here in Paris is already a beautiful reward.  So I didn't change anything before the tournament.  I tried to continue working in the same way:  Never surrender, although I had some disappointments.  And playing here it transcends you, I think.  Well, for others, maybe not.  But for me I have some experience here. I have the feeling that playing here with the crowd supporting me, it's the first time I can use this support to surpass myself, and that's great.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT