ROLAND GARROS
May 22, 2015
Alize Cornet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   Q.  Couple months ago you tweeted a photo of a lot of baggage for a trip.  What is it like traveling on the tennis circuit, and how much do you have to go through?  What are some of the most amusing stories?  ALIZE CORNET: Well, it's exciting and sometimes annoying in the same time, because traveling, it takes a lot of time in our lives and we cannot spend a lot of time at home.  That's maybe the worst part about this job, packing the bags every week to go in different place, different hotel. And in same time it's very exciting, because you can get to see some really beautiful places, get to visit some cities all over the world.  This is very interesting, I would say. But when it's too much, you know, you just don't enjoy it so much anymore and you just dream of spending time at home. So, yeah, that's a bit how it's working on the tour.  But it's the same for everybody, so you have to deal with it.  What I like the less is the plane.  I just hate flying, so for me it's a real suffering to be on the plane for that much. Right now I don't have a funny story to say, but I will have to think of it.  Because, I mean, so many things happened to me in my 10-years career.  I cannot think about one thing right now, but for sure, definitely a lot of things happen every week.   THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.   Q.  What's your shape arriving in Paris?  Is it the more difficult tournament for you to manage in terms of energy?  ALIZE CORNET: I can't remember of how I felt in the past years.  If I remember well, it never seemed easy. So it's difficult to arrive here and have the best mindset for this major event.  Now I'm quite certain it could have been better, but could have been worse.  I feel good, pretty good.  I feel good in my head.  I want to play.  I want to play before this crowd. That can give so much to French players when they feel like it.  So I hope we have a good relationship together this year. I saw the draw first round, so I felt, Well, maybe this is the best opportunity for me to take my revenge.  I thought, Okay, I never manage to beat her.  She's always a problem.  She plays very specific tennis. You know, no round is ever easy, but Roberta is 45th in the year, close to be a top seed.  Of course this is probably not the first round I would have dreamed of.  But once again, this is probably the best opportunity for me to take my revenge.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT