DONGFENG MOTOR WUHAN OPEN
September 24, 2014
Alize Cornet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. CORNET/K. Flipkens
  7‑6, 1‑6, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   (Through translation.)   It should be your first visit to Wuhan.   Is your mother here, too? 
ALIZE CORNET:   My mother? 

Q.   (Through translation.)   Yes. 
ALIZE CORNET:   Yes, my mother and my coach. 

Q.   (Through translation.)   What is your impression, I mean both you and your mother, of Wuhan?
ALIZE CORNET:   Well, we both love it.   This is the first edition of the tournament, but we both think that it's a great tournament already. 
I feel that all the people are actually caring a lot about the players.   They are very helpful and very nice.   The facilities are amazing, so we are having good time. 

Q.   (Through translation.)   I know you come from a family background, very well‑off family.   So what is your driving force for playing so many tournaments?
ALIZE CORNET:   If it's ‑‑what is the question, if it's tough to be away from home? 

Q.   (Through translation.)   You come from a very rich family. 
ALIZE CORNET:   A very what? 

Q.   (Through translation.)   Very well off. 
ALIZE CORNET:   Well off?   What does it mean? 
THE MODERATOR:   Wealthy.
ALIZE CORNET:   Rich, me?   No, this is not a good person (smiling). 
I am not going to say my family is poor, but I'm not coming from a rich family.   I'm coming from a very moderate family.   And I don't get the question, but it's fine (smiling). 

Q.   (Through translation.)   What is the driving force for you to play? 
ALIZE CORNET:   Okay, okay.   I just love the game.   I love tennis, and I'm just a big competitor, so I just like to be on court and fight and try to win some matches, because that's why I'm playing tennis, to win matches and to try to be the best.   I have been like that since I'm a little kid.
It never has been money, the motivation, even though it could be a great motivation, but the love of the game is coming first. 

Q.   It wasn't going too well for you in the second set.   Can you explain what happened then?   And also, how you turned it around to be quite dominant in the third set. 
ALIZE CORNET:   Well, I think that Kirsten played much better in the second set.   Already at the end of the first set she was playing better, and it was good that I took this first set. 
But the second was a bit too fast.   I got broken once and then twice, and then, I mean, at 5‑1, I just let it go because I wanted to keep some energy for the third set.   So all the credit is for her on the second set.
In the third it started the same way.   She was playing amazing shots, and I was a bit passive.   But, you know, I just thought that maybe at one point she would have a little down so I could, you know, get back into the match, and that's exactly what happened.
I broke back at 3‑All, and then it was a huge fight.   I was just fighting and trying my best.   At the end it worked out.   But the last two games, last three games were really, really tight. 

Q.   You're having a great run in China, final of Guangzhou.   You could have tough competition in the next round against Bouchard or Riske.   Do you think you have what it takes to go all the way here?
ALIZE CORNET:   Yeah, I'm having great result so far in China, and a good year, as well, so far.   So of course I believe in myself to go even further.   Anything is possible.   I think the most important is to believe there is no limit.
I have played some amazing matches this year against some top 10 players, so I think I can do it then, you know.   It doesn't mean I'm not gonna lose in the next round, but I will give everything I have.   And I know that when I give everything I have, I'm pretty dangerous.
So we will see, you know.   The final in Guangzhou was really helpful for me, because it helped me get used to the heat.   Here it seems really easy now, so I'm not struggling with the condition so that's already a good thing. 

Q.   (Through translation.)   You have won three victories over Serena in this season, an achievement that has not been seen for many years of all the WTA players.   Last time we saw it was Henin from Belgium.   What do you think is the magic?
ALIZE CORNET:   I don't know, you know.   The two victories I had on Serena this year were just a big fight and I played amazing matches, so I think I deserve these victories.
Then yesterday was just a little bit of luck, as well, you know.   I think she fears me a little bit now because she knows that I'm a tough player.   As I beat her already twice this year, you know, I think mentally it's not easy, but I don't have like a special thing in mind.   I'm just having the right tactic, and I think I believe in myself.   That's it. 
But anyway, even if I had a magic trick, I wouldn't give it to anyone.   I would keep it for myself (smiling). 

Q.   You were talking about your good season from start to finish until now.   What has been kind of the secret behind the consistency?   Because we're used to seeing you have maybe a great tournament and maybe an early loss the next week, but you have been fairly consistent over nine months. 
ALIZE CORNET:   Well, it happened this year.   I mean, I had some up‑and‑downs, some really good result and some early loss, but I think ‑‑well, I was working very hard I think the last of season, and I think it's coming from the previous year when I had better and better result over the year.
Now I'm just a more consistent player.   Maybe I took some maturity, as well.   So I know why I'm here and I know what is working and how I can win as many matches as possible.
And it's true that I have been playing good from January to now and it feels great, because normally I have like always the same period of time where I play good and then the same period of time when I'm not in shape.
Now it just feels great, because I have the feeling I can just have good results all the time.   I think that my ranking is well‑deserved.   Well, it feels good. 
And I think that physically I'm getting stronger and stronger, and that helps to keep this level the whole year. 

Q.   You could play Bouchard.   I know you're a good tactical person.   You're good.   But what do you see when you see her play that has kind of explained, you know, why she's so good?
ALIZE CORNET:   Well, I think that the thing she's doing better than others is taking the ball early.   And I think she's taking time on her opponent like that, playing very early and make the opponent run a lot.
She's very aggressive, and she doesn't miss a lot.   She's a very consistent player like she is always aggressive through the whole match, so this is tough for us, because you will feel like a little bit pushed away from the baseline.
That's what I felt in Wimbledon, but I think I played a good match and I had a lot of opportunities on this match, so it gives me confidence.   If I have to play against her tomorrow, I will have just to change a few things compared to my match in Wimbledon, but, you know, definitely it's going to be a big fight, I think, and I'm ready for it. 
I'm getting a bit tired from these two good weeks in China, but it feels good to have that much matches in my legs, and I'm very motivated for this quarterfinal. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT