ROLAND GARROS
May 28, 2014
Alize Cornet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







T. TOWNSEND/A. Cornet 
      6‑4, 4‑6, 6‑4

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English. 

Q.   It was a very unpredictable match, especially the last two sets.   What are your thoughts on all the momentum changes?   Obviously you had to think the way things were going that you still had a chance up until the end. 
    ALIZE CORNET:   Yeah, and I just tried to fight till the end.   It was an unpredictable match because she's an unpredictable player.   She can play some amazing shots.   I think that, as every player, she was a bit scared to finish the match.
    So with my experience, I really tried to push her as much as I could.   And then the last game of the match I did two stupid mistakes on the return, and that's a shame because I was about to come back to 5‑All. 
    But overall I think she just played better than me.   Tennis is simple; the best wins.   That's what happens.

Q.   What is it that makes her game special, in your eyes?
    ALIZE CORNET:   Well, she use very well her lefty forehand, like especially the cross one.   She's aggressive.   She takes the ball early.   She's doing everything.   She has a very good hand at the net. 
    I had a lot of trouble to return her serve, because she puts a lot of spin.   I'm used to the right spin but not the lefty one.   She was kicking very well on my forehand, and I was missing a lot, especially in the first set.
    She's a good player, definitely.   She didn't become No. 1 of junior for nothing.   I think she have the level to be in the top 100 or top 50. 
    I didn't play the best match ever, but I still played my match and tried my best. 
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French, please. 

Q.   That was the worst situation playing a girl who plays extremely well.   Do you find you managed to play your tennis?
    ALIZE CORNET:   Well, I did what I could when I arrived here.   I knew that some matches would be difficult and I'd have to play my best tennis.
    She came to the net.   She played very long shots.   I didn't have time to develop my game.   But I played too short at one stage and I think that gave her the opportunity of being very aggressive and developing her game.
    As I said, it's probably ‑‑it's certainly not my best match this year, but I did play my match.   I was not frozen by stress.   But as I said, she was better than I was today. 
    However, I was close to coming back.   At one stage she had doubts, and I almost managed to turn it around.   But eventually I lost.

Q.   This game at 5‑4, return on your forehand, you'll have nightmares, I guess?
    ALIZE CORNET:   Well, it's not the only one.   During the second set I had many difficulties returning her shots.   She was putting a lot of spin in her balls, and I made two stupid mistakes.   That's stupid.   That's a shame, because I think she was nervous, as well.
    But, I mean, the match wasn't lost on just two mistakes.   I didn't end up in that situation because of just these two mistakes.   She deserves her win.

Q.   What were you missing in your game?   Your serve? 
    ALIZE CORNET:   Yes, my first serve.   My percentage on first serve was very weak, and she was very aggressive on the second serve.   So it's true I made a double fault because she played very aggressive.
    That's good.   Well done for her.   Her forehand was very aggressive.   She did everything I don't like.   She played to the net.   She was very tactical, and I didn't play very well.

Q.   So is everything collapsing?   Are you frustrated?   Are you sad? 
    ALIZE CORNET:   Right now?   Nothing.   I can't feel anything.   I'm just like a stone.
    Maybe it will come later, but I had a terrific experience with the crowd.   It's one of my best memories.   People waved at me and shouted my name.   It was terrific.
    Now, I can't doubt my tennis for just this match.   It just tells me I need to work, and I'm a hard worker, so I'm not afraid.
    I'm not afraid working, and I need to practice, play longer shots.   I know exactly what I need to work on after this match.   So instead of being discouraged, I want to get back on the court, work very hard, and be ready for Wimbledon.
    I started to think that clay is no longer my best surface, anyway.   So I'm very happy I will be playing on a fast surface very soon.
    I love Roland Garros now it's over.   I'm not going to be sad.   Because as Kristina said, life is beautiful. 

Q.   In terms of behavior, you were extremely calm.   Is this the positive thing for you about this match?
    ALIZE CORNET:   Well, yeah.   Yeah.   It's difficult to find anything positive after such a match.   Three sets.   I had a good attitude.   But to be honest with you, I'd rather have a bad attitude and win the match.   But one day maybe I can combine both, the attitude and winning, and that's going to be great.
    But I tried with my tennis today.   I tried.   I fought till the end.

Q.   Is this a future great player?
    ALIZE CORNET:   I don't know.   I'll wait and see her results in the future, because maybe I gave her the opportunity of playing very well today because I played very short shots.
    But she's been playing very well over the last year.   She was junior world champion, and she was No. 1.   She does everything with talent. 
    Still, I had people in the crowd, they shouted, Make her run, make her run.   I tried.   But she has huge potential.   I will keep a close eye on her.   She was born in '96.   That's painful (smiling). 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT