FEDCUP WORLD GROUP PLAY-OFFS: FRANCE v U.S.A.
April 18, 2014
Alize Cornet
Caroline Garcia
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Team France, please. 
We're going to open up this press conference.   Remember to speak into this mic as this is being recorded. 
Open the floor for questions.   Raise your hand and I'll come to you. 

Q.   This is for both Caroline and Alize.   Since you both won tournaments last week you're probably feeling extra confident.   Does that focus you coming into this week's matches?
CAROLINE GARCIA:   I don't know if you can say super confident, but, yeah, it always brings some confidence.   To don't lose a match in one week, it's always great.   It happens not often in a year. 
So, yeah, for me I think, yeah, I play a good tournament.   I know my game is ready to have good match and just play and just enjoy it and do the best we can. 
ALIZE CORNET:   Yeah, I think it's good.   It's good to get some confidence before this tie.   It's very important tie for us, for both of the team.
I'm happy I got some preparation in Katowice in Poland.   I think it was the best preparation ever on the hard court indoor. 
Yeah, it's great to definitely get all these win before, and I think it's going to help us tomorrow. 

Q.   As for Alize and Caroline, what do you expect out of your opponents for the singles matches tomorrow? 
CAROLINE GARCIA:   I never play against her but she's a great player.   It will be a tight match anyway, so we all want to win and all want to play for our country.
So I don't really know what I can expect, but it will be a very good match to play.   It's going to be a good one.
ALIZE CORNET:   Yeah, same.   I've never played against Madison, so it's going to be a first one.   I think they will be very motivated, as us.
So what can I say?   I think we have to focus first on our game and on our motivation, and then we will see what's going on on the court.

Q.   For Amélie, do you think that the U.S. team being young and playing in front of their home fans faces more pressure, and do you feel like you can play maybe a little more free and loose?
CAPTAIN MAURESMO:   It's possible, but we don't really care in a way about this, where we are and who against we are playing. 
As Alize said, I think the most important is to focus on what we have to do and what we can control.   The rest is out of our hands. 
So that's our challenge for this weekend.   It's gonna be a tough one.   We know that.   We know that the U.S.   team is great.   Even though it's a young one, they are highly motivated.
We will try to focus on what we can change, maybe. 

Q.   I think at each press conference you guys have each taken like what's called a selfie.   Who on your team is like keeping you all calm and relaxed?   Seems like you guys have been smiling a lot and enjoying your time here.   Is this a team effort, or is there one person that leads that charge?
ALIZE CORNET:   Amélie is the selfie person, just so you know. 

Q.   Just seems as if you all are just having a good time. 
CAPTAIN MAURESMO:   We're happy.   Yeah we're happy to be together.   We're having good time in a serious way concerning preparation and concerning the matches that are going to come up.   It's good. 
THE MODERATOR:   Any final questions? 

Q.   Coach, everyone healthy? 
CAPTAIN MAURESMO:   Yeah, yeah, everyone is healthy.   The two who came first on last Saturday are great; the other two that came a little bit later are also great.   They recovered good from travel and matches and wins.
So, yeah, everyone is ready to walk on the court if needed, and for me, it's great.

Q.   Congratulations.   Very good team. 
CAPTAIN MAURESMO:   Thanks. 
THE MODERATOR:   We will conclude this press conference.   Thank you.
CAPTAIN MAURESMO:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT