DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 22, 2014
Alize Cornet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 V. WILLIAMS/A. Cornet
  6‑3, 6‑0 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   That was more competitive than the score, wasn't it?  
ALIZE CORNET:   Yeah.   Yeah, I think ‑‑I don't know.   6‑3, 6‑0 is a bit tough in an hour and 30, so I guess there was a battle on the court, but she was just better than me today.   That's it.   Really there is nothing to say.   
She was playing more aggressive.   She was pushing me out of the court very far from the baseline, and I didn't play as deep as yesterday, didn't serve as well.  
I didn't miss my final completely, but for sure I didn't play my best tennis.   But Venus helped it a lot and she played good the whole week, so she deserve this title.  
   
 Q.   It was a great week for you.   
ALIZE CORNET:   Yeah, it was a great week for me.   It's always tough to finish like this, and I believed in my chances today.  
I would have loved to make like a better final, you know, with a little bit more of suspense.   And the score is really too hard to finish the week, such a good week, but I will have to take all the positive things out of this week.   I think there is a lot, so I'm still very motivated for the rest of the season.  
   
 Q.   How difficult is it to beat the Williams sisters back to back within 24 hours?   You never really had time to enjoy beating Serena.   
ALIZE CORNET:   No, I didn't really have time.   Right after the match yesterday I was already focused on my final, so I couldn't enjoy my victory so much.   
I was pretty tight today before the match, but for sure it was the final so it's normal.   I started the match pretty well, but then, you know, she was just playing better.   
She was running so well on the ball.   I was surprised of her quality.   She was running so good, covering the court so well, so I was panicking a little bit.  
For sure, beating the Williams sisters in the same tournament would have been amazing, but maybe next time if I have the chance to do it (smiling).   
   
 Q.   You seemed quite emotional in the first set, like between the games.   We could see on the monitor that you looked really emotional.   What was going through your mind?  
ALIZE CORNET:   Well, I don't know.   I had the feeling I was not playing my best, so I was a bit frustrated by that.   
I had the feeling I could do much better, and when I lost the first set, then I had the feeling she just played even better than the first set.   The second set was just ‑‑ you know, she was confident and she was going for all the shots, and then it was really tough for me.   
So I think the first set was very, very important, and that's why I was a bit emotional, because I wanted to do better.   I had a lot of game points.   I am the first one to break.   I am 2‑1 up, 30‑Love, and that's just a shame not to, you know, not to make this game and be a little bit ahead in this set.   That's why I was disappointed.  
   
 Q.   Nevertheless, you must be hugely encouraged by your performance this week, and even in the final tonight you matched Venus shot for shot for long periods.   
ALIZE CORNET:   Yeah, yeah, yeah.   I tried my best.   Really I didn't play that bad.   She was just ‑‑she was playing faster.   She was playing deeper.   She was taking the ball earlier than me, and she was serving better.   So, I mean, then I don't have a lot of chances.  
But this week was for sure a great week for me.   I beat the two top 10 players, two 20 players, and it didn't happen forever.   For sure it's amazing.   
But as I said, this score in the final, that's bothering me a little bit, because it was still a battle and you cannot see it with the score, so frustrating for me.  
   
 Q.   A lot of players love this tournament.   What have you enjoyed about it?  
ALIZE CORNET:   I enjoyed a lot the crowd and the ambience there, the fact that everything is at the same place, the hotel and the tennis club, which is amazing location.   The tennis club is so beautiful.   The hotel is great.  
So we are in the best situation for players in the best comfort.   And the ambience here at night on the center court, it's just great.  
Yesterday I had goosebumps when I was playing, because the crowd was like screaming my name and   I'm not in France.   I was like, Oh, that's weird and it was amazing.   
Now I will have to rest a little bit and get ready for Indian Wells and still keep working.  
   
 Q.   You have played two of the strongest players of this era.   Do you think players like you, your age, you think you are there to have the limelight in the next few years?  
ALIZE CORNET:   Well, I hope so.   I hope I'm still a little bit the future of the tennis at 24 years old.   I'm not dead yet (smiling).  
Now that you see that Venus is 33 and she's still playing unbelievable, I guess I have some many years coming ahead of me.   Yeah, I think we definitely, the future of tennis, I hope I am now that I am back to my next level, and I hope I will keep playing like this, because I really enjoy my tennis when I'm like that on court.  
So we will see in the years coming, but I'm confident.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT