AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 25, 2009
Alize Cornet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 D. SAFINA/A. Cornet
  6-2, 2-6, 7-5 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. When you issued that challenge when you held at match point, did you think in your heart that you were going to get that one right? Were you convinced that you had made a proper challenge?  
 ALIZÉ CORNET: Well, if I didn't try on this one I never try, because it was a match point. The ball was really close. I made a beautiful forehand and I just tried, you know, because I was pretty sure it was like one or two centimeters maximum out.   
 I was thinking, Okay, let's try on this one. I was not so wrong. It was the match point and I really wish it was in.   
  
  Q. It had to be a wrenching defeat. How difficult was that to accept that you had lost?  
 ALIZÉ CORNET: Well, I don't look so sad, because this match is done since a few hours. I played a mixed doubles just after my match, so it was maybe a bit easily to forget the lose.   
 But, of course, it's really a tough, tough lose. I mean, I think I'm going to think about it for a long time.   
 I really tried my best, so I have nothing to regret. The match point was really two big rallies, and she was really, really strong on these two rallies.   
 Yeah, I was really close of this quarterfinal. What can I say? Now it's too late. I have to think about the future and about my next tournament now.  
  
  Q. Can you explain how you turned the match around in that second set?   
 ALIZÉ CORNET: Yeah, she really made a great start of the match. She played really, really good at the beginning. I was a bit impressed of the court and of the point -- that I was at the fourth round, so I didn't play so good at the beginning.   
 Then, like usually, I just keep fighting. Then she really made much more mistake and she just let me come back in the match. Then I was really more motivated.   
 Until 5-2 in the third set, I really believed in my chance. But, well, it's like this. I mean, each time I play against her it's better and better for me. Next time I hope I can beat her. I cannot be more close than this one. Next time if I play against her in Dubai I'm going to win. I have to be positive.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT