MEDIBANK INTERNATIONAL
January 12, 2009
Alize Cornet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. CORNET/N. Petrova
  6-2, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Tell us about the shoulder. Is there a problem? 
 ALIZE CORNET: Yeah, it's a little bit problem. It comes and it goes since about two months, so I'm pretty okay. I was a bit scared yesterday to practice because it hurt me really, really hard. 
 But then I just see the physio, and they told me, You have to try tomorrow. If after 15 minutes you feel better you can play, but if you feel it really too hard you have to stop, because it could be worse. 
 Now I just felt okay on the court, so I was really relieved. I just have to put some ice. Yeah, it's a bit big, but it's nothing serious.

 Q. You had a great season last year. Great win here today. How are you feeling? 
 ALIZE CORNET: I think, like all players, I feel a bit nervous about this beginning of the season, because you really work hard for two months and you don't play so many tournaments and so many matches. 
 You just lose a bit of contact with the match and everything, with the competition. So at the beginning it's really tough to start again and just to be in the mood again. 
 That's why I was a bit nervous at the end of my match, because I was 6-2, 5-1 up, and then I just -- I don't know why, I just started to think about, Yeah, come on. You have to finish the match. I just hope she's going to give me the end of the match. 
 But, no, she's 11 in the world and it's not like that. I just have to play my game. I still don't know how I won this last game, but, well, I did it. Now I'm okay and I'm in the tournament, and I think I will play better and better after tomorrow and after my match.

 Q. Cibulkova said she had a bit of trouble adjusting to the outdoor conditions after Perth. Didn't seem to be a problem for you. 
 ALIZE CORNET: Yeah, but Dominika, she had one more match because she played the final. I have to say that she played unbelievable indoor, so I think she felt great inside. 
 But it's nit my case because I only played three matches, and then I had the chance to come here and practice one more day. So, yeah, I can't believe that. It's really tough at the beginning just to be the adapted to the condition. 
 That's why the Hopman Cup is really good practice and everything, but when you get used to play indoor, then you have one or two days to be conditioning of outside condition, and that's why I think it's tough.
 I can understand Dominika, but for me it was okay, so I was lucky. 

 Q. So you've made such a big progress last year. What goals have you set for yourself for this year? 
 ALIZE CORNET: A lot of goals, because I had a lot of improvement last year. I don't know how many places I took at the ranking, but a lot. I was top 20 at the end of the year, so it was a really good year for me. 
 But in my game I really have to -- I really have to make some more things on the court. I have to be more aggressive. I really work hard in November, December to try to go more on the net, at the net, and just try to be more aggressive. Try to just go on the court and not only to defend and to be, you know, like (from translation) opposite, to be a good opposite, because I think the future of women's tennis is to be at the net. I really want to do that. 
 If I want to get into the top 10, I really have to be more aggressive, because the players are better and better now. It's the only chance for me.

 Q. So you want to be an all-court player?
 ALIZE CORNET: Exactly. Opposite, aggressive, because I have good physical condition, so I can really move really well on the court when I'm in good shape. 
 But, well, I cannot count only on the physical qualities. I really have to improve my aggressive game. I know it will be tough, but I really have to dare and to try each match. I'm going to do it step by step and we'll see. 

 Q. There are a lot of good net players in France. 
 ALIZE CORNET: There's a lot you say? Yeah, but in men's.

 Q. Traditionally in men. 
 ALIZE CORNET: But not really in women. That's why I have to change. 

 Q. With your shoulder at the moment and with the Australian Open very close by, does that make you hesitant to keep pushing through this tournament if it does get worse?
 ALIZE CORNET: No. For me it's really tough to, I mean, to stop during a match because you're injured or something. Even if I know that there's the Australian Open next week and you want to be ready for this tournament, but for me, every tournament is important. 
 If I can play -- even if I feel a little bit pain, but if I can play I will play for sure. So you can count on me for the next match. If I feel my shoulder like today, I could play the whole match for sure. Then I will have some cares just to be better for the Australian Open. 

 Q. Is it something that can be managed with physiotherapy, or do you need an operation at some point?
 ALIZE CORNET: No, no. I don't think so. No, it's a little bit inflammation.

 Q. Tendonitis?
 ALIZE CORNET: Yeah. No, it's -- actually, yeah, a little bit, but it's not so serious. It's just a little bit. I really have to care about that, because if I play and if it hurts me it could be worse. 
 Now it's okay. I see on the court I can play and serve and smash and do everything, so right now it's not something serious. But you always have to be... 

 Q. So at the moment it's inflamed but there's no tear?
 ALIZE CORNET: No. It's just inflammation. A little one. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT