INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA (WOMEN)
May 17, 2008
Alize Cornet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  A. CORNET/A. Chakvetadze  
3-6, 6-4, 6-3  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. At three nil down in the second set you looked completely out of it. How did you turn it around and get back into the game?  
 ALIZE CORNET: I don't know. It was 6-3, 3-Love, Love-30 on my serve. I was just afraid to lose like 6-3, 61 in 50 minutes, and I just told myself, My God, you have to keep fighting and try to come back at the score.   
 After that, ten minutes later it was 3-All and, you know, the fighter inside me was come back and after, you know, it was start again.   
 I don't know, you know, it was 3-All, and after 5-3, 5-4. I don't know exactly what's happened, but, you know, I just keep fighting and that's works.   
  
  Q. On the television I heard you say that you said something about you being unstoppable now.   
 ALIZE CORNET: Yeah, I said that. Not unstoppable, because Jelena Jankovic is a very, very good player, especially on clay. She runs everywhere, you know. It's quite impossible to make a winner against her because she has a very good physic, you know.  
 So I just said that, you know, it was my tournament, and I just hope to make a good match tomorrow. But, you know, it's my second top 10 today, and why not my third one tomorrow? I hope so.   
  
  Q. (From Italian) Do you already have an idea of your tactics for tomorrow?  
 ALIZE CORNET: No. I didn't already talk to my coach about the tactic, but I already play against her in the US Open last year, you know. And I saw her so many times play on TV, so, you know, I think I will know how to play against her.   
 But after that have to do it on the court, and that's really difficult.   
  
  Q. This is your tournament or this is your year?   
 ALIZE CORNET: Maybe both, maybe both. Yes, I start very good the year. You know, since the clay season started I played very good on every tournament.   
 So yeah, you know, I'm 18, maybe it's not imaginary thing. Maybe it's my year. I hope so.   
 But, you know, it's start very good right now.  
  
  Q. (From Italian) Rome is a city that really favors you. You won ITF tournament here, right?   
 ALIZE CORNET: No, I didn't win, I was finalist. I lost in three sets a long time ago, two years ago I think. It was in a 25.   
 Yes, I love -- at this time I had the time it visit the city, and it's a city that I like very much. So for me it's like a dream, you know, to be in final here.   
 I just hope to make a good match tomorrow and to, you know, give pleasure to the public. That's my goal of tomorrow.   
  
  Q. (From Italian) So we just to have hope that the result of this tournament is different from the result that you obtained playing the ITF tournament?  
 ALIZE CORNET: Yeah, it's not the same. It's final, but it's not the same level, you know, because it was a $25,000, and now it's one million and three something thousand dollars.   
 So, you know, it's very, very important tournament in the season. It's like Masters Series in fact in women. So, no, it's not the same level.  
 But I don't know, I was very happy to be in the final of this tournament two years ago, and now I'm just great feeling and just to have celebrate it with my coach and my mother.   
  
  Q. Two years ago it was against who? A Serbian?  
 ALIZE CORNET: No, against Kira Nagy from Hungary.   
  
  Q. Who are some of the champions who have inspired you as you've been growing up in tennis?   
 ALIZE CORNET: The question is who is my idol? Yeah, since I'm young my idol is Andy Roddick because, you know -- not still now, because now, you know, I'm a professional too, so it's different.   
 But when I was young, thanks to him I won some match because I was thinking about how his behavior on the court. You know, he loves the show, he loves to share his emotion with the public, and that's what I love in this game and his behave.   
 So, you know, sometimes, yeah, I inspired my game from him, so it's help me some days. But, you know, now I'm just my own -- I am my own idol. That's what I want to say.   
 Not my own idol. Okay, you understand.  
  
  Q. How do you spend your money?  
 ALIZE CORNET: Oh, I don't spend my money. I don't like very much shopping. Yes, for a girl I guess it's strange, but it's like this.   
 So, you know, I just don't know how I spend my money. It's like I really don't know. Maybe later if I want to buy a flat or something like this, or a car. Even a car, yeah, because I want to have my -- I don't know how you say.  
  
  Q. Driving license?  
 ALIZE CORNET: So I think about the future, but right now nothing really interesting.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT