INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA (WOMEN)
May 16, 2008
Alize Cornet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. (From Italian) Does it feel like a fairytale, like a dream?  
 ALIZE CORNET: You know, I don't know, because I was a little bit surprised, you know, when Laura, the referee, told me that Serena couldn't play.   
 So, you know, I'm happy, but it's not the same satisfaction when you won a real match.   
 So, yeah, I'm now I'm in semis, and for sure it's like a dream. But I was exciting to play against Serena, so I don't know what to say actually.   
  
  Q. What do you think about your next opponent?   
 ALIZE CORNET: Anna Chakvetadze, yeah, I saw she won 6-1 in the third. I know her because she's a very good player. You know, she's on the top 10 since two years or something like this. I think she play a good tennis.   
 She can be aggressive, but she has a good defense, too. She's complete. So, you know, I will just do my best and try to play my game, and after we will see.   
  
  Q. (From Italian) You are the revaluation of this tournament. Can you tell us a little bit about yourself so that we get to know you better?  
 ALIZE CORNET: But what? I don't know, I'm 18 and I live in Nice, in France. I don't know what to say. I'm 34 actually in the ranking.   
 You know, I love to play on clay court. It's may favorite surface because I grew up on this surface. I started to play when I was four years old on clay, so that's why I really like this surface.   
 I don't know, you know, I have a dog, his name is Andy. I miss my father who stay in Nice. But I think he's coming tomorrow for the semifinal because he's not working, so I'm very happy that he sees my playing in semi against Anna.   
  
  Q. (From Italian) Have you had time to go around Rome and see a little bit of Rome?  
 ALIZE CORNET: I had the time when I was playing ITF, like $25,000, but now this week, you know, I was playing two matches Wednesday, so I didn't have the time to visit.   
 But when I did it it was a great experience. I like the city. It's just a beautiful city. Maybe after the tournament I hope I will have the time to visit it.   
  
  Q. (From Italian) If you reach the final who would you like your opponent to be?  
 ALIZE CORNET: I don't care. You know, it's Venus and Jelena or who else?   
  
  Q. Sharapova.   
 ALIZE CORNET: Ah, yeah, Sharapova or Schnyder. Okay, I don't care really. You know, they are all great players. I never played against -- I just one time play against Jelena Jankovic in the US Open. It was a great match for me, so why not another time here in final?   
 But, you know, I don't care. It will be a great pleasure for me to be in final, so after I don't care.   
  
  Q. You're French and you like to play on clay, so I think for you Roland Garros is very important. This tournament it's a great training for you?  
 ALIZE CORNET: Yeah, that's good for me that I played so many matches before Roland Garros. You know, for sure for every French player it's the goal of the year, especially when you love clay like me.   
 You know, I will be seeded at Roland Garros, so that's a very great honor for me to be seeded there. I just hope I will play good. I will try to do my best and show what I'm able to do. So after that, you know, I think I can do a very good tournament in Roland Garros.   
 Mentally I think it should be hard for me because it's in France in front of the public, you know, all the pressure that's on me. But I think I'm enough strong to beat this.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT