INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA (WOMEN)
May 15, 2008
Alize Cornet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  A. CORNET/S. Kuznetsova
6-2, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Today you have beaten Kuznetsova, which is the strongest one in your career. What do you think? How do you feel?
 ALIZE CORNET: Yeah, it's my first top, 5. My best result before was when I beat Szavay in Charleston; she was 13. And now I just beat my first top 5. I just feel unbelievable, and that's normal. 
 You know, we didn't play very good tennis because it was, you know, sometimes winner but a lot of fault, you know. But the most important is that I was very solid, you know, on the important points. 
 That's just a great victory for me, for sure. 

 Q. Are you ready to play the former No. 1 in the world tomorrow, Serena Williams?
 ALIZE CORNET: I play Serena Williams tomorrow. Oh, yeah, she was No. 1. Yeah, I'm ready. No. It's the second time I play against her. First time was in the Charleston semifinal. It was a tough match for her and for me. 
 I lead 4-1 in the first set and I was playing very good. And the final score was 7-5, 6-3, but it was, you know, I think a big match for me and for her. 
 So I don't know. We know each other, so I don't know what it will be. But, you know, I will do my best. I'm in quarterfinal. It's just to have fun and try to play good tennis. 

 Q. You were leading 4-3 in the second. What happened? You became nervous or something?
 ALIZE CORNET: Yeah, you know, I was leading 4-Love, you know, yeah, and after 4-3. But, you know, at 4-1 I played a very bad game on my serve. I made too many mistakes, and after she take -- she had more and more confidence, you know, and, she played better. 
 She start, you know to say, Vamos. Come on. So it was a little bit hard for me because I was like, Do this or don't? So at 4-3 she played a very good game, I think, so I have nothing to say. 
 But at 4-All it was very important to stay in the match, you know, because I knew that 4-Love to 4-All she played very good tennis. After maybe she lost her concentration, so I just had to keep in the match. 

 Q. At that point, did you feel any fear to lose the match? 
 ALIZE CORNET: You know, I don't think about that when I'm playing. I just try to fight on every point and not to think about who will lose or who will win. So I just tried to do my best. 
 Yes, it was difficult for me at 4-All because I lost four games in a row. But, you know, you only have to play and not to think about what will happen.

 Q. If you are playing very good tournament, what's the reason? Do you think it's physical, mental?
 ALIZE CORNET: I think it's everything, you know; it's combined. I love to play on clay because it's my favorite surface. I played good tournament in USA, you know, so I know I can play a big level on this surface. 
 I think mentally I'm very strong now, and physically too. But, you know, my forehand I improve a lot. I worked a lot, you know, during November and December to try to get a better forehand and to try to go more down the line and backhand. 
 So that's what I did on every match and it's a very positive point. 

 Q. Do you have chance to visit Rome in these days or in the past?
 ALIZE CORNET: Yeah, you know, when I was playing ITF, like the 25,000s and something like this, I had the chance it visit all the big monuments of Rome. 
 On this tournament I didn't have the chance, because you know, I'm playing every day. But it's a very nice city. It's my first time on this tournament, and I think it's very good organization, the courts are perfect, and I think that's why I'm playing good, too, here. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT