ROGERS CUP
August 8, 2018
Alize Cornet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. CORNET/A. Kerber   
6-4, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.   
 Q.  What did you make of the quick turnaround, first at 11?  How much did that help you get ready for the match today?  
ALIZE CORNET: Can you repeat the question?   
 Q.  It was a quick turnaround for you, long days over the last couple days.  To be first this morning, did not having that much time almost help you in a way?  
ALIZE CORNET: I didn't think so much about it.  I finished my match at 6 yesterday.  I just tried to rest and be ready for today.  I knew it would be a big match.   
But somehow I didn't think so much about the schedule that was not really good for me.  I was just focused about what I had to do on the court today.  I think that's probably the best thing to do when you play tennis, is not to think too much.  The less you ask question to yourself, the best it is.  That's what I did.   
Since three days I'm just going on court, playing tennis, winning so far.  That's good.  I will try to keep the same tactic for the next tournament -- match, sorry.  Next tournament also (smiling).   
 Q.  You were looking forward to being out on center court.  What did you make of the atmosphere?  
ALIZE CORNET: Yeah, I really loved my time on center court.  I love this court.  The atmosphere is really amazing.  I feel really supported by this Canadian crowd.  I think they kind of like me.  It feels really good on court to be supported like that.   
Well, definitely enjoyed my time a lot.  I don't think I'll play again on center tomorrow, but I really try my best to win and be able to come back on this court.   
 Q.  What does it do confidence-wise to beat a player of that stature?  Do you think clay courts make a difference?  
ALIZE CORNET: What is your question exactly?   
 Q.  What does it do for your confidence to beat a player of that stature?  
ALIZE CORNET: That's what I understood.   
Well, it does a lot.  It does a lot obviously.  I think it's my first top-five win of the season.  What a top five.  I mean, she just won Wimbledon.  She has an amazing season so far.  I'm really glad and really proud that I could win today.   
It also shows me that, you know, I can play good on every surface.  Like for sure clay is my favorite one because I grew up on this surface, but I can be also very efficient on hard court.   
Yeah, it gives me a lot of confidence for the rest of the U.S. swing, because it's a long one.  You have to be on top for four weeks.  It starts pretty well for me, so I'm happy.   
 Q.  What was going through your mind between 5-2 and 5-4?  How were you able to regroup and win the set?  
ALIZE CORNET: Yeah, these two games were really bad for me.  I think I got a little bit tight, especially at 5-3 when I had to serve for the set.  I did some bad choices.  I felt, yeah, I was getting tight.  I felt it in my game.  I was not letting my shots go.   
I knew she would be on top of me if I would let her come back.  Definitely the game at 5-4 and the fact that I remained really calm helped me to close it out in two sets.  For sure the fact to win this set was decisive in the match because then I could play a little bit more relaxed.  I saw also that she was more down and she was maybe not able to keep the fighting like in the first set for the whole match.   
I was just trying to stay focused.  The fact to remain calm, once more, was probably the more important thing in this set.   
 Q.  You've beaten her twice in a row.  Did you learn something from the match in Beijing?  Did you feel the difference today?  
ALIZE CORNET: Yeah, especially because I didn't adopt the same tactic last year in Beijing than today.  I know also she improved herself in the last six months a lot.  Last year in Beijing, I was more focused about playing the forehand, moving her.  It was different tactic today.  It was more like playing on the backhand side, also being aggressive.   
It was different, and I'm happy I actually adapted my tactic depending on her, and that I could do it the whole match.  It's not easy with the pressure that you feel on court, all this emotion.  It's not easy to keep the same tactic plan for the whole match.  That's what I did, so it's a good lesson for the next round.   
 Q.  You have Ash Barty next.  What do you expect from that match?  
ALIZE CORNET: Yeah, not easy.  I love this player.  I love the way she play.  I mean, it's so beautiful to see her play.  I think she plays a little bit like a guy, with her forehand, big serve.  She's not so tall, but she has such a big serve.  I don't know how she does that.   
She's a different player, a little bit like Kasatkina.  I like this kind of player that shows different things on the court:  going to the net, slicing on the backhand side.   
It's nice because I'm also a little bit this kind of player that do a lot of variation in my game.  Definitely a very interesting match.  I'm looking forward to it.  I think that's the first time we played.  No, we played in Roland Garros like in 2009 or something.  I remember now.   
But definitely she is now another player.  She's definitely the favorite tomorrow, when I used to be the favorite, like, 10 years ago.   
Different situation, but I can't wait to play against this player.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French, please.   
 Q.  With your recent title, I guess this victory is the most satisfying one and gives you a lot of energy?  
ALIZE CORNET: Yes, of course.  It's not every day that you are able to beat a Grand Slam winner and a top-five player.  I'm very proud and happy that I won the match today.  The victory in Gstaad three weeks ago made me very confident on what I was able to do on the court.  Applying this here in Montreal against such a good player gives me a lot of energy and a lot of positive things to keep for the rest of the season.   
 Q.  Talking about the victory in Switzerland, before the first title in two years, were you feeling that it was difficult and maybe feeling a bit impatient?  
ALIZE CORNET: It's been 13 years I've been playing on the tour.  I started when I was 16 years old.  You always have ups and downs when you're a tennis player.  It's difficult to keep your motivation up every day and go and practice every day.   
But I believe that it is my tenacity that makes what I am today.  I never gave up, even in the worst moments.  That title in Gstaad was really a reward for this hard work I put in for many months.   
I think after all these years, I'm able to keep my direction.  It is tough to do that.  You need to have a lot of willpower.  Matches like today are a reward for all that dedication.   
 Q.  I think you tried Simon Goffin as a coach, but he's not with you.  
ALIZE CORNET: I always am coached by Simon Goffin.  He was there in Gstaad.  He couldn't be here today because he was on vacation.  He will be with me next week in Cincinnati.   
What we are doing together already bears fruit.  I'm happy now I found a coach that corresponds to me, that I'm able to envision the future with him.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT