ROLAND GARROS
May 30, 2018
Alize Cornet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
P. PARMENTIER/A. Cornet   
6-7, 6-4, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.   
 Q.  Pauline told us that she ached all over.  How do you feel?  
ALIZE CORNET: Well, same thing.  It was a big fight.  I believe that we both came out of it completely tired, and we'll see how we wake up tomorrow morning.   
 Q.  I guess you have some regrets for today?  There is a statistics about 25 match points.  You only had 2 break points out of 27.  
ALIZE CORNET: I just want to cry when I hear that kind of thing.  I didn't think it was that bad, but I do realize that I had a lot of break points that were not converted.   
But out of the 25, she served well, and overall I didn't go and get the breaks sufficiently.  Obviously I will have regrets for this match, because I didn't feel I did what it took overall for the match.   
I was very tense throughout the match.  I believe there wasn't one moment when I managed to let go of my strokes and relax, and Pauline didn't help me at all, because she was playing very deep, very heavy.  She was defending well.  She was just better than I was today.   
 Q.  We talked about the physical state at the end of the match.  How was it during the match?  Because you have some pain in your shoulder?  
ALIZE CORNET: Well, during the match it was very intense.  It was very hot.  We were sweating a lot.  It's true that I believe I hurt my right pectoralis muscle.  But it was my fault, because when you play and you're very tense, it pulls on your muscles, it pulls everywhere, and you hurt yourself.   
It was like that at the end, and at the end I could hardly serve and it was very difficult against a girl like Pauline who was serving very well, which leads to the very logical third set.   
 Q.  You've played in Roland quite a lot.  How can you explain this for today?  
ALIZE CORNET: Probably different answers.  Roland matches I always come in stressed.  It's me.  Sometimes it's a good stress and sometimes a bad stress that doesn't disappear during the match.  Then I hold back my strokes and I don't play properly.  And also the fact that I was playing against a friend, against Pauline, was not easy.   
I was playing on a court which I don't like, and in the fourth match I hate this position because I knew we were going to end up playing at night.  I can hardly see as soon as the dark comes in, which means I didn't manage to be in the moment.  I was really tense from the first to the last moment.   
 Q.  If you look back, would you say it's still positive for Roland Garros?  
ALIZE CORNET: Well, the positive thing is taking part in it.  But it's difficult to draw a positive lesson after a match like today, apart from the fact that it was a big fight and I didn't let go at any moment.   
But this is the least you can do, being a warrior, and I owe it to myself and to everyone and to the public.  I shouldn't give in anything.   
But I do challenge myself a lot after this match, because I believe I could have done better, and also, I could have taken more pleasure than I felt.   
It was more hard and laborious, and it was not very pleasant in the court.  That's the main thing.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT