ROLAND GARROS
May 27, 2018
Alize Cornet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. CORNET/S. Errani
2-6, 6-2, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.
Q. When you get out of a match like the one you just won, do you feel that you're relieved?
ALIZE CORNET: Well, it's not that I'm relieved.  It's not that I'm sighing in relief.  I'm really happy, because I really had a bad start.  I wasn't in the game.  I didn't feel confident.  I wasn't yet ready.
But I managed to overcome all my doubts and my fears, and I think it was very satisfactory, and I think it's a very good start.
Q. On the court you were telling Cedric you weren't completely ready for the match.  Why would you say that?  Because you weren't prepared enough or because of your injury?
ALIZE CORNET: First of all, yeah, in Madrid I had an injury, and I wasn't really ready.  And then a few days ago, it was the other side that was injured or was making noises.  Let's put it that way.
And because I had the strap for two days now, I wasn't really confident.  Yesterday on the children's day, I wasn't very confident as I was moving.  Therefore, it took me a real set, a whole set and two games to completely start hitting.
Q. The fact that you found yourself on the Chatrier after all you went through, did it make you think about something?
ALIZE CORNET: Yes, actually, I was thinking about it quite a bit.  But I kept my cool, because I thought it was a good thing to be on the Suzanne Lenglen, and I managed to do a good match.  That was how I managed to turn the whole match around, because I kept my cool even though I had a very bad start.
I really started moving my legs, and when I started running, as I usually do, and I started using my legs much more, I was much better.
I must say it was even more moving than usual.  I really started having shivers in my back.
Q. You feel that your tournament has started, and do you feel that you're kind of in limbo?
ALIZE CORNET: No, my adductor was good.  And I think that as I'm going to play on Wednesday, I'll have two days off.  And after such a tough fight, it's a good thing to have those extra days.
But I think that now I have regained confidence, thanks to the match today, and the rallies didn't really hurt me.
Q. After that injury that you had, did you train normally or did you have to slow down?
ALIZE CORNET: Well, when I went to Madrid, I was aching and it was just after my lawsuit, and after that, I was still in pain.  These were the two worst weeks in the season.  I wasn't motivated in my training.  So I tried to train with my trainer in Sofia, but it was to stay fit than to play the French Open.  I wasn't thinking about it.
So I prepared once the ruling came out.  I think that as I have good physical shape, I was able to use it.
Q. You're saying it's not the first time you have that kind of injury?
ALIZE CORNET: Anything that kind of pain in the back is more psychological, but when it's the adductors, it's obviously my weak spot.  I think that also when women have their menstruations, and I know that around the pelvis I'm much more fragile, and this is something that men don't suffer from (smiling), which makes me envy them a lot.  But what can you do except train?
Q. At the end of the game, the two dropshots that you managed to achieve, was it something that you really thought about?
ALIZE CORNET: Actually, no, this is pure instinct.  I'm not in a position to think about things and build things up.  All I wanted to do was to hit the ball, the points, one after the other, and I managed to dampen the final point, which was really good.
It's one of my favorite shots, and I didn't exaggerate today.  And I think I still have to continue using that kind of a shot, a dropshot.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT