NATURE VALLEY CLASSIC
June 22, 2018
Barbora Strycova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
B. STRYCOVA/L. Tsurenko(ret.)   
7-5, 3-0   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Just talk us through that first set and some of the emotions that were going on, because it was a tight first set for you?  
BARBORA STRYCOVA: Yeah, it was a tough one, but I thought we were playing very good tennis, me and Lesia, But I had a break 2-1 already right from the beginning.  But I didn't play the other two games like I wanted. I was a little bit frustrated.  But you're asking me emotions.  I have emotions every match.  No, but I was very happy to win the first set I think.  Her level maybe little bit dropped down because the injury that affect it a little bit.  I mean, of course.   
 Q.  Obviously, you play Rybarikova next match which is a repeat of the Linz final.  What do you remember from that match and what do you expect from the semifinal?  
BARBORA STRYCOVA: We play such a good match in Linz.  We always play against each other big matches and it's a lot of fight because we have similar game.  We also very good friend, so we know our game.  I know her game very well and she knows mine.  It's going to be very tough one.  I like to play on grass and she does, too, and she showed that last year in Wimbledon.  But there will be a lot of chip-and-charge, a lot of serve-and-volley, a lot of different game than you see in women tennis right now.  So I really look forward to play to tomorrow, yeah.  I have to try a lot of volleys tomorrow in the warmup.   
 Q.  What makes you two such good friends?  What do you like about Magda?  
BARBORA STRYCOVA: We know each other so many years already.  She's just so normal.  We go out.  We talk about other stuff than tennis.  We really get along very well.  We have a lot of fun together.  We watch every night football here.  Going to be today as well.   
 Q.  You've been keeping up with the football?  
BARBORA STRYCOVA: I don't like football much, but when it's World Cup, I am expert.   
 Q.  What do you enjoy about having the World Cup or couple years ago the Euros were going on?  Is it nice to be able to go back and have something to watch?  
BARBORA STRYCOVA: Exactly, this is.  You go out and you know something going to be on TV.  You pick a team and you cheer for it.  You are not bored and you don't watch Instagram.  You just watch football, which is something different.   
 Q.  In terms of playing somebody who has a grass court game and you know her quite well, what are the difficulties of coming up with tactics in that situation?  Is it trying to not outthink the other person and just play?  
BARBORA STRYCOVA: Exactly.  You cannot go and play and see what's going to happen.  You have to have, like, tactic and you have to follow it doesn't matter what because Magda is such a cleaver player, especially on grass she.  She will destroy your game right away in two games because she can play serve-and-volley, slice, and chip-and-charge.  I have to follow my tactic and also I have to be not so much emotional because it also takes a lot of energy.  It's going to be tough match tomorrow.  I have to use the energy for the tactic, for my legs, my head, for everything.   
 Q.  How did you feel about kind of the fact that there still are surface specialists?  
BARBORA STRYCOVA: It's great.  I like it.   
 Q.  Why?  
BARBORA STRYCOVA: Because, well, like, for example, Magda, you know that she's going to play well on grass.  You will see something different on hard court.  You know that there are also special players that they like more hard.  But you don't see all the time the same players winning a tournament.  It's just very nice right now in women tennis that we have different champions.   
 Q.  You said you have to have less emotions tomorrow.  Can you do that?  
BARBORA STRYCOVA: I'm not sure (laughing).  I try to do that, but when I try to do it too much, it also hurts me, so I have to have it in balance.   
 Q.  In the World Cup, who are you rooting for?  
BARBORA STRYCOVA: I don't know who's playing tonight.  Switzerland --   
 Q.  Iceland right now.  
BARBORA STRYCOVA: Now?  I heard Brazil won.  I was for Brazil and then here I am for Switzerland.   
 Q.  Why?  
BARBORA STRYCOVA: They have a nice goalkeeper.  He's cute.  Magda told me the same.   
 Q.  Good reason.  Is there anything that you two don't share?  
BARBORA STRYCOVA: No, we share everything.  Seriously, very, very good friend.   
 Q.  Seriously about the Swiss goalkeeper?  
BARBORA STRYCOVA: Well, she showed me the goalkeeper on TV and I was, like, Yeah, he's handsome.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT