BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 17, 2018
Su-Wei Hsieh
Barbora Strycova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








HSIEH-STRYCOVA/Makarova-Vesnina
6-4, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Do you guys mind just telling us again how and why you got together, how and when you got together?
BARBORA STRYCOVA: We got together, like, 10 minutes to 12:00 before the sign-in.  Because we didn't know that if we get in then we kind of, like, switch.  It was so complicated.  But then we sign up again and then we let it go, and then this happened.  It's great we sign up together (smiling).
Q. How tough was that match?  Windy conditions.  They are such a tough team.  How did you get it through?
BARBORA STRYCOVA: It was tough, because it was first time for us to play on center.  And like you said, it was very tricky conditions.  So you have to focus much more on your service game to put first serves in a lot, like, more percentage than normal.
Yeah, you have to play just a little bit differently.  Against the wind, we tried to use more lobs.  Yeah, we were maybe little better in these tricky points.
Q. How do you do it when you don't know each other well enough on the court?  How do you put it together like that so well?
SU-WEI HSIEH: I mean, Barbora just crush all the volleys.  So I just focus to put in my ball on the baseline.  So I was feeling better after the first match.  We are going better and better.
BARBORA STRYCOVA: Yeah.  Every match we play better and better.  But we know each other.  Like, we are same age, and we played juniors together.  And, like, we don't know each other maybe so much to play, like, together, but off the court we know each other very well.
Q. What is it about your personalities that make you a good match?
BARBORA STRYCOVA: Well, she's very calm and I'm very emotional, and it fits (smiling).  So she makes me, like, being, like, calm and think a little bit, and then take it easy.
That works for me.  Yeah.
SU-WEI HSIEH: I cannot be emotional.
BARBORA STRYCOVA: No, she cannot (smiling).
Q. There has been so much power in women's doubles in the last few years.  What do you think it says that your brand of tennis and Su-Wei's style combined can still win big titles like this?
BARBORA STRYCOVA: That you don't have to have so much power to win tournaments or matches.  That you can overcome the power with, like, tricky points to think how you plan the point every time.  And when you cross, you can play serve and volley.
So it still works and it's nice.  It's a little bit maybe we play old-school tennis, but it's still working.
Q. Is there a chance you'll play together again?
BARBORA STRYCOVA: We might.  We don't know yet.
Q. You were the only one out there that has not won this trophy before.
BARBORA STRYCOVA: Yeah.
Q. What does it mean to actually be a part of a championship team?
BARBORA STRYCOVA: Well, it's great.  It's the biggest tournament in doubles I won, and it feels awesome.  To play, to have Su-Wei next to me, it was really special.
When I was serving out the match, I was a little bit shaky, but I was serving it good, so I was very happy that we won that game easy.
Q. You have been working with David since the start of the season.  What kind of improvements do you feel like you have made with him specifically either tactically or mentally being able to serve out the match?
BARBORA STRYCOVA: Well, he is very good coach.  We try to work every day on something different.
But I think from the beginning of the season I improve my serve a bit, and he tries me to play more aggressive and come in and use serve and volley and to use my volleys much more.
Q. Translating to your singles game, how is this helping?
BARBORA STRYCOVA: So much.  It helps so much.  It helps, like, to return, to try to come in, like I said before, and to practice volleys.
It's good for my singles, like, because my coach is teaching me that, and then he tries to force me to all the time come in.  Because at the net I feel great, but sometimes I'm a little bit passive.
Doubles helps me to see myself I can play the volley any time.
Q. You have been so close to Singapore the last few seasons in doubles.
BARBORA STRYCOVA: I was.
Q. How much would it mean to you to have a full-time partnership?  Not to put too much pressure on you to say yes or no.
SU-WEI HSIEH: Oh, no pressure.
BARBORA STRYCOVA: No pressure for me (smiling).
SU-WEI HSIEH: We play.  We enjoy tennis.  Even we get (indiscernible), and then we play again and will be happy.  If not, then we keep looking next time to play each other to have some fun.
You know, in doubles it's most important is you enjoy the game.  I think doubles is different from singles.  Singles you need to get more power, you're going to run more.  But doubles you see other team, you're happy, you enjoy it.  Doesn't matter you win this time or lose this time.  We just enjoy it and play some good tennis.
BARBORA STRYCOVA: See?  She's so calm.
Q. Other than the win today, what are some of your favorite memories of this event?
BARBORA STRYCOVA: This one.  I mean, winning a final like this in two sets, it's the nicest memory I had from this tournament.
But from every match we played, there were some moments, like, she is playing amazing tennis, such balls that I am, like, standing there with open mouth and how she can do that?
It's really something very special.  These moments are here that you work for, and then just to enjoy it.  It's nice.  And it was nice two weeks.
Q. Can you talk about what you like specifically about Indian Wells?  About this tournament?
BARBORA STRYCOVA: I like the tournament because it's very smooth.  It's no hectic, no drama.  It's just, like, the tournament director, all the volunteers caring about us.  Like, it's very easy.  Like, we have everything ready, everything is prepared.  Also the practice court we can practice any time.
It's very, for me, it's one of the best tournaments.  It's close to the hotel.  We don't have to travel, don't have to stay in the traffic.  It's very nice.
Q. Do you have any special celebrations planned for tonight?
BARBORA STRYCOVA: I'm flying.
SU-WEI HSIEH: So we will try.
BARBORA STRYCOVA: Yeah, she will open the wine for me tonight.
Q. Do you know who you will play with in Miami for doubles?
SU-WEI HSIEH: Miami I will play with Monica Niculescu.  At the last moment I try to work this out.  I play with Monica and you play with Andrea.  But because of some of the rule problems, so we say, Okay, we stay like this.
BARBORA STRYCOVA: Because she's supposed to play with Monica here and me with Andrea, but there was some rule changes.  We couldn't switch.  So we say, Okay, we will play together, and they will play together.  So this is how we end up.
Q. Do you believe in fate given the way you entered into this tournament?
BARBORA STRYCOVA: I do, if you give positive energy.  And like Su-Wei said, if you just enjoy and don't put so much pressure but you go for it, it can happen, good things.  And it happened (smiling).






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT