AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 23, 2017
Barbora Strycova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. WILLIAMS/B. Strycova
7-5, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How do you think that went for you out there?
BARBORA STRYCOVA: Not well (smiling).  I fought very hard, and I tried to -- the beginning of the first set we kind of couldn't win serve.  I felt like I wasn't serving well, because Serena gives you, right away, the pressure that you really have to serve well.  Otherwise there is a winner or you are in the rally from the first point under the pressure.
So I didn't feel like serving well at the beginning in the first set, and then at the end of the first set I start to feel it a little bit more.  But, yeah, it was not enough.
I think there was a key when I was having 4-3 with the break and 15-All, and there was a point where I could maybe go 30-15, and then you never know what can happen.
But it's a pity I didn't win that game, because if it would be 5-3, maybe it would be different. But she was still, during the whole match, a better player.
Q. You broke Serena's serve, one of the best serves in history, four times.  Earlier this week, Roger Federer spoke about playing with Belinda Bencic, and when they were practicing he said he was shocked how good her return was.  She was like crushing his second serves.  He said he doesn't spend as much time on his return.  How important is the return for women, do you think?
BARBORA STRYCOVA: It's very important, because women, we are not having such a strong serve, as Serena does.
But to return -- I mean, my return is also sometimes very difficult for the other opponents because I'm chipping.  It's something different for them.  Return is very different for our game.
Maybe Roger was not -- well, when someone is serving to us quicker, we return better.  When those serve is kick or a little bit slower, for us it's difficult.  Return is important as well as serve.
Q. Do you spend a specific amount of time practicing your return?
BARBORA STRYCOVA: Yes, I do, with my coach, a lot, actually, because I can also change the pace.  I can stay in back, I can go forward, I can change it.
So we are working on that and practicing a lot.
Q. Seemed like that match was really on the edge quite a number of times.  How do you feel about how close you were?  How frustrated are you?
BARBORA STRYCOVA: Well, I am frustrated, but I feel like everything depends on Serena.  If she has a good day, you kind of don't have a chance, because she plays so well and she plays so quick and her game is so tough to get in the rhythm, to get some balls over the net, because it's long and it's quick.
So today, I felt like I am there but still far away.  I was fighting a lot.  But like I said at the beginning, my serve was not working, and with her, you have to serve well.  Otherwise she gives you so much pressure that you try to serve so good that it's worse.
Q. You haven't played her in a while.
BARBORA STRYCOVA: Yeah.
Q. What do you sense in her game?  Do you sense any changes?
BARBORA STRYCOVA: Well, I saw the matches before, and also, I was looking some videos on Internet.
But, I mean, like I said, everything depends on her, what's her day, if she feels well, also if her body feels well.
I feel she plays same as before.  Yeah, it's tough to play her.
Q. Not many people are down break point against Serena and decide to serve and volley time after time.
BARBORA STRYCOVA: Yeah, I tried to change something, because when I was serving well and staying back, I got a winner from forehand cross, so I was like, okay, I change it and mix it up a little bit.  It was working, so why not to do it.
But you have to serve better than I was today to do that often.
Q. Is it daunting to do that?  Did it feel natural for you?
BARBORA STRYCOVA: No, it feels natural for me.  I do this often.  I mix the game.  I'm not a player who just hits from the back.  I chip and charge sometimes.  I play spin, I play fast, so this is my game.  I don't have a powerful game, but I have to use my strengths.
Q. What happened on the set point when she finally won the first set?  Did it click the tape?
BARBORA STRYCOVA: Yeah, I feel like I got into the rally, and I was playing a long ball and she somehow hit it with the frame, I think, and it -- yeah, I was so far back to catch the ball.  It was really short.
And I was hesitating, if I should go or not, because I thought it's going to be in the net.
But, yeah, a little bit bad luck.
Q. The ball did not clip the net, though, did it?
BARBORA STRYCOVA: No, it didn't, but I thought -- I was like, should I go or not to go?  I wasn't ready, and it was too bad.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT