HUAJIN SECURITIES WTA ELITE TROPHY ZHUHAI
November 1, 2016
Barbora Strycova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








B. STRYCOVA/R. Vinci
6-4, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Down a break in the first set.  What do you think you did to turn things around and end up coming through pretty good in the end?
BARBORA STRYCOVA: At the beginning of the match I didn't really feel the court, the ball.  It's always tough when you are not playing for two weeks a match, like a regular match.  Then it's tough for me.
But when I was 1-3 down I was telling myself, Be patient more and get into the rallies more, and then run.  Sweat more.  Like this I start to feel the ball, feel the game.
Then it was 3-All and I start to be a little bit more confident.  Also the first set gave me a little bit boost, so I was confident in the second.
Q. At the draw ceremony Petra said it was interesting you got put together in the same draw because of Fed Cup in a few weeks.  Have you spoken to her, and how are you preparing for each other?
BARBORA STRYCOVA: We spend the whole party yesterday together.  We really didn't speak about the match.  Of course we said like could be a little bit different, but it is what it is and this is tennis.  So we have to deal with it.
Of course it's not easy because we are friends and we playing, like you said, Fed Cup next week.  But this is how it is.  We can't say just like, We can't play because we are playing Fed Cup and we are friends.  But we will try to do our best from both sides.  We will see.
It's not the ideal group.  (Laughter.)
Q. This is your first time coming to Zhuhai.  How do you like the city as well as the tournament?
BARBORA STRYCOVA: To be honest, I didn't see so much from the city yet.  I have a day off tomorrow.  I might go to see something.
But the site, the venue is amazing.  I have to say the courts and the organization, it's really nice.  But I can't say about the city much.  Sorry.  (Smiling.)
But I have to say that you have a lot of green, so I don't see that much in Beijing or Wuhan.  So it's nice to hear the birds or whatever.  It's very nice.  (Laughter.)
Q. I know players are asked a lot what it's like playing your friend.  You hang out.  For a teammate specifically though, you and Petra being on the same team, you're working together a lot in tennis, not just hanging out.  Does that give a different advantage or disadvantage.  With the growing Czech contingent, might even have a whole dossier on upcoming players.
BARBORA STRYCOVA: That's a good question.  All the Czech players, we know how to be a teammates in the week where is Fed Cup.  Tennis is individual sport, so we know how to separate it.  Most of the time of the year you play for yourself.
Three weeks in a year we are so close together and we are like really -- I can't describe it because it's like a routine for us that we are really doing everything together in the week where we play Fed Cup.
But when we have to play for ourself, then it's something else.  Of course it's a Czech player on the other side of the court, but this is a business.  We have to do our best.  I try to do our best, she tries to do it as well.
So I think we are professional in that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT