ROGERS CUP
July 25, 2016
Barbora Strycova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








B. STRYCOVA/C. Garcia
2-6, 6-3, 6-3
An interview with:
BARBORA STRYCOVA
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How difficult was it with all the rain delays today?  What did you do during the breaks?
BARBORA STRYCOVA: Well, it's really difficult, but we have to get used to it, and we are used to it because, like, in Europe it was raining all the time.  So kind of like was Wimbledon playing three days my first match.  So I was ready for that.
What I was doing?  I was eating.  I was chilling.  I was trying to sleep a little bit.  But it wasn't such a long delay, so you kind of make yourself going all the time and you have to stay warm and be ready to go on.
Q. Is it better to have a long rain delay or in this case where you guys came out, went back in, came out?
BARBORA STRYCOVA: I prefer to have longer rain delays (laughter).  You can also rest and eat properly.  These delays are tough because, like I said, you have to be all the time ready.
Suddenly I went on court for the fourth time.  I'm, like, I'm tired.  We played a set and a half, so I like more longer delays.
Q. You had a great battle in the third set.  Seventh game you were able to keep three breakpoints.  How did you experience that game?
BARBORA STRYCOVA: It was really important game in the third set.  Was 15-40 down.  Well, Caroline was returning well.
My serve was not really working today.  But especially that game was not bad, I have to say.  But she was returning good balls.
But I kept myself saying like, Stay there, stay there, just push the ball somehow in the court.  I fight till the end.  Also I played really good the eighth game on her serve.  I was focused there.  It was also important.
Q. Do you wish more stadiums had roofs like we see in more and more Grand Slam tournaments now?
BARBORA STRYCOVA: I mean, it would be really nice to have it.  But it's such an expensive thing.  We have to deal with it.
Now at the US Open we have the roof.  Wimbledon we do have the roof.  Also you have to be good to play under the roof.  You have to be good player to play there.
But I wish we can have more because like this, for example, Petra is playing night session, and she won't be playing before, like, 10:00.  It's really tough.
It would be nice, but we need more sponsors (laughter).
Q. How do you see your next game against Venus Williams?
BARBORA STRYCOVA: Well, I played her last time in Dubai and I lost from two match points.  I'm really looking forward to play that match because every time I play her really it is a big battle.
I give everything there.  I try to win it.  Like, I'm looking forward to that.
Q. What do you think is Venus' secret to come back to the level she's at now?  She hasn't been ranked this high for like five years or so.
BARBORA STRYCOVA: I don't know what is the secret.  But maybe she's just taking it easy, easy, then she's like, I try to play now.  She's just always, always amazing.
I don't know what's the secret, but she's such a great champion.  She's also such a big fighter, I have to say.  She's 35?
Q. 36.
BARBORA STRYCOVA: She's amazing.  And also it shows me and shows us that I'm 30 and I can play six more years (laughter), which I don't think so, but maybe.
Q. She played Sunday night in Stanford, traveled all night.  Do you think you can take advantage of this situation?
BARBORA STRYCOVA: Well, we are playing on Wednesday, which she has two days to recover.  I don't know.  You're playing a final, so you kind of like feel good.
I hope she will be a little bit tired (laughter).






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT