AEGON CLASSIC
June 19, 2016
Barbora Strycova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








M. KEYS/B. Strycova
6-3, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions for Barbora Strycova, please.
Q. Second time finalist, but it looked like you got a read on Maddie's game in the second set.  Was it just a little too late to turn it around by then?
BARBORA STRYCOVA: Well, I tried to hang in there because she was playing really, really good tennis.  First set, I didn't have any chances I think.
I think the second game of the second set was really important.  I had breakpoints and didn't make the return.  It was good, but it was a let.
Also, when I was leading 4-3 in the second set, I had a breakpoint, but she was serving always first serves, so it was really tough for not me.
I couldn't kind of read her serves.  She was too good today.
Q. It looked like in the first set, all you could do really was block everything back?
BARBORA STRYCOVA: Yeah, I was always behind.  I tried to like get chances when she was serving.  I had just little ones, but I didn't convert it.
Q. Must be disappointing, but do you feel like you had some good play here, especially as many matches as you played this week?
BARBORA STRYCOVA: Yeah, of course, losing the final is always disappointing.  But I played good couple matches and I beat good players on grass.
But I'm happy that I went through the whole week with my injuries, and I'm feeling fine.
Fine, I mean "fine."
So I am pleased about this week.
Q. Just going to ask you about the shoulder, was that new?
BARBORA STRYCOVA: Yeah.
Q. I didn't see that before.
BARBORA STRYCOVA: No, I didn't have it before.  Yesterday, during doubles, I was serving in the second set and I felt something there, so I taped it.  I feel it a little bit.
Q. If you started the match again, do you think there's anything you could have done differently to change the way the first set went?
BARBORA STRYCOVA: Well, like I said, I didn't have many chances to change anything.  My game is to try to put every ball in there and then try to, like, get into  her head.  But I can't play tennis like she is.  She's playing really powerful tennis.  I don't have power for that.
I would maybe try to serve a little bit better, to put more first serves in and go more to serve and volley.  So maybe that, but not too much change.
Q. Considering you've had a really good week here on grass, are you feeling confident going into Wimbledon now?
BARBORA STRYCOVA: Yes.  I mean, I don't want to say I'm really, really confident, but it's really good to play good matches on grass and win them and be able to play a week like this one.
Wimbledon is my favorite tournament, so I look forward to that.  I can play good tennis and lose against someone who is even playing better that day.  I hope I can play some good tennis there.
Q. Does the week like this maybe make you change your target at Wimbledon at all?
BARBORA STRYCOVA: No.
Q. It's the same?
BARBORA STRYCOVA: It's the same.
Q. You just made the point that Madison was one of the very powerful players.  How well do you think she can do at Wimbledon?  She's broken into the top 10 and seems really confident.
BARBORA STRYCOVA: Yeah, she's 21 years old and she's already top 10.  She can play on any surface, and especially grass, I think, suits her game because she serves very well.
Winning this tournament, I think she can do good, but sometimes the mental thing to be playing in Grand Slam and Wimbledon can take you, like every one of us.
I wish her to play good and I think she can be in the second week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT