AEGON CLASSIC
June 18, 2016
Barbora Strycova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
B. STRYCOVA/C. Vandeweghe   
2-6, 6-4, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions for Barbora Strycova, please.   
 Q.  Congratulations.  
BARBORA STRYCOVA: Thank you.   
 Q.  Two days, 30 hours, seven sets.  You won 10 of them.  You're going to play both finals tomorrow.  Talk us through that.  
BARBORA STRYCOVA: What can I say?  I mean, I'm pleased about it.  I never played three matches in one day before, so it was kind of like a test if my physical coach is good.  Obviously, he's very good.  And I'm here now and I feel pretty okay, surprising.   
 Q.  Here you are again.  It's another Birmingham final for you.  If I remember right, it was quite sort of rainy and muddy last time you played.  You're obviously used to the conditions.  How do you feel about your chances going forward?  You've got Madison.  She's won against you twice.  
BARBORA STRYCOVA: Yeah, last three weeks.   
 Q.  How do you feel about prospect about seeing her again?  
BARBORA STRYCOVA: Well, I go for that match to, I don't want to say nothing to lose, but it's a final.  It can change many things.  It's on grass and I like to play on grass.  It's going to be a totally different match.   
The last match in Rome was really tough one.  I lost 6-4 in the third.   
But she's a great player.  I have to bring some good tennis.   
 Q.  Just a quick question about the Rio Olympics.  You're a good doubles player.  You showed that in the second final.  Is there any reason you're not playing doubles in the Olympic Games?  
BARBORA STRYCOVA: The reason is that my ranking was not good enough.  We have so many players who has better ranking than me.  So it was tough decision for the coach, to tell me also that I'm not playing.   
But I think it's fair how it is.  I'm going to play singles and I will focus on that.   
 Q.  You've got Eastbourne obviously after.  Have you seen the draw?  
BARBORA STRYCOVA: Well, I didn't see it, but Karolina told me.   
 Q.  CoCo again.  
BARBORA STRYCOVA: Yeah, CoCo again.  But I don't want to think about it.  Tomorrow is my final.  I just want to put everything in there that I have left.  I don't want to think about it.   
 Q.  Just a quick one on the match.  There seemed to be a point in the third set you seemed a little bit put off by when she aimed a volley near you or something like that.  Was that something that distracted you?  
BARBORA STRYCOVA: My volley?   
 Q.  Against CoCo, there was a point in the third set, she had a volley, she had a lot of court to aim into and she hit it very close to you?  
BARBORA STRYCOVA: Oh, this one.   
 Q.  Did that distract you?  
BARBORA STRYCOVA: No, no, no.  I was just a little bit surprised because she had the whole court open.  She hit it right to me, so I was like, Oh!   
But then she said sorry.  Even if she would not say it, it was fine.  She won that point.   
 Q.  Having played so much tennis, are you worried that at some point tomorrow you're going to start feeling very, very tired during your match?  
BARBORA STRYCOVA: No, I tried not to think about it, because if you think about it, you bring a lot of weird energy into your body.  I'm in the flow.   
Like I said, I feel okay.  I tried to have massage and some recovery drink, eat good, eat a lot.  I will try to be as healthy and as fit tomorrow as I can be.   
 Q.  Away from tennis, have you been watching the European Championships?  
BARBORA STRYCOVA: Yeah, yeah, yeah.   
 Q.  What do you make of the Czechs' chances?  
BARBORA STRYCOVA: I mean, we were losing two-love down yesterday, and then to do the draw, it's good for us.  If we would be, like, third in the group, it's good.  We don't have so many chances.   
But we should beat Turkey, I have to say.   
 Q.  What's so special about Birmingham?  
BARBORA STRYCOVA: I don't know.  I didn't see Birmingham at all.  I saw the courts and the hotel.   
I don't know.  I like the people.  I like the surroundings and the tournament.  The organization is very nice.  So I feel nice here and I like to play here.  And the courts is really good.  They are really amazing.   
 Q.  Another factor this week has been the rain.  What do you like to do during the rain breaks?  
BARBORA STRYCOVA: What can we do in the player lounge.  Either we eat or we look at the phone or we look at Euro or we talk to each other.  Nothing to do, especially before the match.  You have to kind of focus and sleep.   
But the last three days, it was raining.  I went to the hotel and watch a movie.  Not much.   
 Q.  What movie did you watch?  
BARBORA STRYCOVA: I think Terminator 1, yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT