AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 25, 2016
Barbora Strycova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








V. AZARENKA/B.  Strycova
6-2, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Great match.
BARBORA STRYCOVA: Thanks.
Q. Well played.  Can you just talk about how you felt.  Vika has had a great tournament, but you really challenged her out there on the court today.
BARBORA STRYCOVA: Yeah, a little bit, but she is having a great tournament, like you said, and to play against Vika, it's tough because you have to always try to do something more.  That's already a pressure.
You know that you have to give everything, which I did, but it was not enough.  I felt a little bit my legs at the end because I was running a lot.  Unfortunately you have to be better, which I wasn't.
But it was a great match.
Q. How satisfied are you with your Australian Open having made the fourth round here?  Obviously not the result you wanted today, but a great effort for you.
BARBORA STRYCOVA: Yeah, I mean, I have to work harder to beat players like Vika.
But I'm very happy about the performance I did this year here.  I love it here because it's unbelievable tournament.  Everything what they do for us is great.  Playing here, we cannot ask for more.  I'm very happy that I made three rounds.
If someone would tell me before the tournament I would not believe it, so I'm very satisfied.
Q. A lot of the discussion around how you play is how refreshing it is and how you really mix up the game really well.  Do you think not enough girls are doing that now, that it's too much of straightforward power tennis?
BARBORA STRYCOVA: Yeah, it's a very powerful tennis, but I'm not big enough to play powerful tennis.  I don't have power to do that.
I wish sometimes I would, but I love to mix the game.  I love coming in and play serve and volley.  This is how I play since I'm small, but I need to be better in some points, which is good because I can still learn things and get better in practice and we see how it goes.
Q. Vika sort of refuses to answer questions about the past.  She likes to stay very much in the present and looking forward.  But you have now played her 2014, '15, '16 at this tournament.  So how do you compare today's Vika and those last two years?
BARBORA STRYCOVA: I have to say that she is very hungry.  Last year I felt like she's a little bit on and off, but this year you can see that she was working hard on her mental, I think, and also on her physic.
She's very hungry, and I think she is the one who can think about the trophy.  But to think about and to be in the present, it's good.  She is getting better.  She's still young.  She has chance to make this tournament.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT