AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 23, 2016
Barbora Strycova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








B. STRYCOVA/G. Muguruza
6-3, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Tell us what went well today.
BARBORA STRYCOVA: What went well?  I think everything.  No, I was serving very well, and the plan was like to play my game, mix it a little bit, but to play deep.
And it's not easy against Garbine, because she plays fast and also very deep.  Today I think she didn't have the best day and I felt good on court, and that's why I think I won today.  That I felt pretty well in hitting the ball so good.
Q. Now, there is a strong chance you'll face Victoria Azarenka in the fourth round, and she's knocked you out of this tournament past two Australian Opens.  What do you need to improve on exactly against her to give you a better chance of winning?
BARBORA STRYCOVA: Well, I lost also against Garbiñe in Tokyo pretty easy and I won today.  So I will go to that match with confident.  I don't know.  I have to play my best tennis and to mix it and try to somehow win and focus on every point.
But Victoria is very, very good.  I saw her hitting some balls yesterday and she's hitting the ball very well.  But we don't know how it goes.  She is 1-All in the first set.
If I play her, I will just enjoy myself and try to do my best and like I did today.
Q. Is there any part of your game though that you really need to focus on coming up against her?
BARBORA STRYCOVA: Yeah, I mean, I have to be really good on my legs, move my legs well.  Against these players you have to play deep balls and try to mix it.
But also serve is very important, so I will focus on that and I will serve some tomorrow.  I am still having doubles today, so it's a good practice for me, as well.
Q. What is the secret of Czech school?  You play fantastic way in Fed Cup with all the girls.  What is the secret of...
BARBORA STRYCOVA: Everyone is asking me what is the secret, but I don't know.  We just I think try to practice hard and enjoy ourselves.  I don't know what is the secret, but I am proud of my country that we have so many players like that.
It is great to see also young players coming up, and we have a lot.  So I'm happy about it, but I don't know why is it like that.
Q. So Petr Pala doesn't have a magic powder?
BARBORA STRYCOVA: Maybe a little bit.  He has the magic powder to pick the right players for the team.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT