DONGFENG MOTOR WUHAN OPEN
September 28, 2015
Barbora Strycova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
   
 Q. Not always the best way for a match to end. Can you talk about the first two sets at least, how you thought you played for the match.   
BARBORA STRYCOVA: I thought it was a good two sets. Unfortunately it's sad that Maria couldn't finish the match because I thought it was a really good match. Especially like the first set tiebreak wasn't really good for me, but I hang in there with her.   
It's really tough. She's playing very powerful tennis, very long balls, so it wasn't easy for me. But I hang in there. Was very important also at the beginning of the second set. I won the first serve of the set.   
   
 Q. Did you change anything in the second set tactically or improve in your game or did you notice something happening on her side?  
BARBORA STRYCOVA: I didn't notice anything until the tiebreak of the second set. But I felt like we were both a little bit tired because the first set took very long.   
But I didn't change anything in the second set. I just kept telling myself, Hang in there and be on your legs, move well, because it's very important against these players to move well. First two balls to put inside the court. So I kept telling myself these things.   
   
 Q. What do you think was the difference between the first tiebreaker and the second tiebreaker?  
BARBORA STRYCOVA: I played a little bit more solid and more clever, I think. I served well. I wasn't focused enough in the first set. This was the mistake. I did better in the second.   
   
 Q. Against a player like her, what is the game plan? What is the key to beating Maria?  
BARBORA STRYCOVA: It's really tough. I mean, my game is so different to her. Well, when I went on court, I told myself, Be there, fight every ball, try to put as many balls as you can in the court, be on my legs, try to move her.   
She's tall and it's really tough for her. But it's never easy because she's playing very long and very powerful. So you have to watch out not to make so many mistakes.   
I was playing pretty good today, I have to say.   
   
 Q. Since this is in China, we have to talk about our greatest tennis idol, Li Na. We all know that before her retirement you are the one...   
BARBORA STRYCOVA: I was the bad girl.   
   
 Q. Do you remember that match?  
BARBORA STRYCOVA: Of course I remember that match. It was the best match of my life, I think. It was on Court No. 1 in Wimbledon. I remember every point, I have to say. Well, maybe not every point, but especially the match point because she took a challenge.   
It was 7‑6, 7‑6, so very good match for me.   
What I have to say to her? I saw her yesterday here, not in person, but on court. She looks very happy. She looks like she's enjoying her life. She has a baby, right?   
   
 Q. Yes.   
BARBORA STRYCOVA: So I wish her good luck with the baby and that they are both healthy.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT