U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 21, 2015
Michael Greller
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Jordan was just here talking to us.  He made it crystal clear it was a team effort and paid you huge tribs.  He also said he was glad he could help make this place even more special.  I know you got married here and so forth.  This has got to be a magical place for you right now?  MICHAEL GRELLER: I told him all week that I have nothing but great vibes here, starting with my marriage two years ago up there on the top of the hill.  The best day of my life. Then it really jump started my caddying career five years ago working with Justin Thomas, and also those good vibes.  Honestly, coming down the stretch today, I was replaying shots from our second round match against Scott Strohmeyer.  At the time I thought it was the most dramatic thing ever and then today happened. But, you know, ultimately as far as my local knowledge, it really wasn't worth anything, I didn't think, because Jordan's Jordan.  He's one of the best players in the world, and I was just trying to stay out of his way.  I've worked hard the last couple of weeks, but I haven't been out here in five years.  The course has changed.  The guys that I've caddied for usually can't break 90, or it's myself playing and I can't break 80.  I throw out any -- I'm sure he's being nice, but it comes down to Jordan just being one of the best players in the world.   Q.  He said you help keep his head on straight with painting the picture and a lot of things like that?  MICHAEL GRELLER: Certainly we've been in a lot of situations the last three years, as far as emotionally.  Kind of knowing what to say to him and what not to say to him, I feel like I have a good feel for that.  When you are in that situation, the more you are in it, the easier it gets. Certainly we drew a lot off of Augusta and Tampa and there were a lot of positives that we could draw off of. He was able to execute shots, aside from 17, which you are going to hit bad shots.  What he did on 18, though, I think captures his mentality.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT