NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: DODGERS VS BREWERS
October 13, 2018
Chris Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Chris, did you play with Miley long enough in Seattle to gain any extra insight into what he might have today?  
CHRIS TAYLOR: I mean, I played with him a little bit in Spring Training.  I don't think it's a big secret what he does.  He likes that cutter.  He works both sides of the plate.  Makes the changeup and curveball, and I think mainly works down in the zone.  I don't have any extra insight that anybody else doesn't already know.   
 Q.  I know every hitter goes through a daily adjustment almost when it comes to the course of a season.  What's this season been like for you in terms of getting on track and then coming off a little bit and then getting back on track again?  
CHRIS TAYLOR: Yeah.  It's kind of been a lot of ups and downs, more so this year than last.  Last year, I felt like I was in a good spot for the majority of the year, and this year was a little bit more of a battle.  I had a couple really bad months where I struggled and just wasn't -- a big part of it, I wasn't on time for the fastball.  I wasn't seeing the ball as well as I wanted to.   
And I feel like I -- mechanically, I'm in the best spot I've been all year.  Really ever since the beginning -- or end of August, beginning of September is when I feel like I've been at my best.   
 Q.  We talked a lot about the Brewers bullpen coming into this series.  You had two pretty good at-bats yesterday against both Hader and Knebel.  What's the trick to each of those guys?  You seem to do pretty well against them.  
CHRIS TAYLOR: Just really trying not to do too much against them.  I think you go up against big power arms like that and you try to meet power with power, it's not going to work.  You really have to shorten up and keep things simple and just kind of -- Turner always talks about singling them to death.  Just take what they give you and almost take like a two-strike swing and an aggressive mindset.   
 Q.  You don't play the Brewers very much.  What's it like going from video to the real thing when you face a guy like Hader or Knebel or some other relievers?  How difficult is it to go from watching them and studying them to actually seeing what it's like in person?  
CHRIS TAYLOR: Yeah.  Sometimes it takes a couple pitches or a couple swings to get a feel for a guy.  Sometimes they have that extra life or movement that you really can't get a read on until you step in the box.  A lot of pitchers have that extra life just based on any number of things, whether it's their delivery or they hide the ball well or they have the spin rate.  It could be a number of things, but yeah, it's just something you gotta get a feel for.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT