NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: CUBS VS DODGERS
October 14, 2017
Yasiel Puig
Chris Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Dodgers - 5, Cubs - 2
Q. For both of you, you have very different approaches to the way that you uplift your team.  Chris, you very quietly, Yasiel, you very emotionally.  Can you both speak to that?
YASIEL PUIG: He's Gringo, I'm Cuban.
CHRIS TAYLOR: Yeah, you know, it's just my personality, I guess.  I always try to play the game hard and do my talking on the field or whatever you want to call it.  But, Yasi is our high-energy guy.  He likes to pump everybody up.  He wears his emotions on his sleeves, for sure.
YASIEL PUIG: He said it.
Q. What was your impetus to change your swing in the off-season in order to try to get more power, and have you become a more aggressive hitter?  How would you describe yourself?
CHRIS TAYLOR: My approach is pretty similar.  I made some mechanical changes.  You know, I had been up and down between Triple-A and the Big Leagues the last few years, and hadn't been able to stick in the Big Leagues or have long-term success.  I felt it was just something I had to do.  I had to make that adjustment to just take it to the next level.  I knew I wanted to be an everyday player, and I knew that was an adjustment I would have to make.
Q. On the home run, did you think it was gone when you hit it?  It looked like you put your head down and didn't watch it leave the yard.  What was your reaction when you realized it was gone?
YASIEL PUIG: When I hit it, I think that it's going, but later I see the left fielder say I got it, and I started running, and I think the wind helped me a little bit tonight.
Q. Yasiel, Dave Roberts talked about how you two have now established more of a trust with one another; that you've been able to channel your emotions positively.  What kind of growth have you seen understanding the bigger picture over the last couple of years?
YASIEL PUIG: I try to do the best I can in the game.  I'm coming here and prepare more this year than any years here with the team.  My teammates helped me a lot this year.  My manager and all the coaches, and that's the reason I played better this year.  I'm so proud of myself, and I want to keep going and do the best I can for my teammates and for myself.
Q. You almost hit a home run on your first at-bat earlier in the game.  Were you kind of aware the second time you hit it out that it wasn't going to travel out, or were you sure it was going out?
CHRIS TAYLOR: I thought I got the second one a little bit better, a little more flush.  I hit them both good, but I had a good feeling on that second one.
Q. Is this the most fun you've ever had playing baseball?
YASIEL PUIG: No, when I was five years old, I played better.
(Laughter.)
Q. As fun as this is, how important is you having fun to your success?  Do you think that breeds success for you?
YASIEL PUIG: No, this is my best season.  Like I said, to my teammates and my coaches, I grew up a little bit more, going to the home plate for having fun, because I know I hit nothing, I do nothing in the game, my teammates are going to have my back, like Taylor or C or Corey, or everybody will do the best they can.  That's the reason I play better and my team is in the position this year again.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT