KIA CLASSIC
March 25, 2016
Rachel Rohanna
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  First hole-in-one ever for you?  
RACHEL ROHANNA: Yes, I've had an albatross before on a par 5, but never hole-in-ones.   
 Q.  What does it mean to not only walk away with a hole-in-one, but a tablet, as well?  
RACHEL ROHANNA: Well, I didn't know anything about it to be honest.  Well, I guess I did but I wasn't thinking about it until I saw on Twitter Lizette got her tablet.  I was all excited and texted Donna and asked her if I got one.   
Yeah, to have Acer help sponsor us and help support the LPGA and to give this out for hole-in-one prizes is definitely a bonus.  I'm just so excited.  I was just about to buy a tablet and I swear I was looking at Acers, so this is perfect.   
 Q.  Overall, start of rookie year, now to have a hole-in-one, how has it been going so far I guess?  
RACHEL ROHANNA: It's been going better than I expected, so it's been fun.  It's been great.  Glad to, it was perfect timing to get that hole-in-one right in the middle of my round whenever I couldn't make any putts.  So it was like, okay, well, I guess if I can't make putts, I might as well just hole it out.  So yeah, it's been good.   
 Q.  Great round today overall.  What was really working well for you?  
RACHEL ROHANNA: Like I said, I really wasn't making any putts until the hole-in-one.  Then after that, it was like my putter just caught fire and started making a lot.  But just scrambling; golf is just so funny, I think last week I hit the ball a hundred times better than I have been this week and I went from missing the cut to I think I'm at least in the Top 15 or 20 right now.  I guess that's just how the game goes.   
 Q.  Any good plans to celebrate the hole-in-one?  
RACHEL ROHANNA: No, I told -- I was playing with Brianna Do and Laetitia Beck and told them I would buy them a Starbucks, but I don't know if that's really the kind of drinks they were planning on.  So maybe go have a couple cocktails at some point this year.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT