U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 8, 2011
Rachel Rohanna
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Is this your first U.S. Open?  
 RACHEL ROHANNA: Yeah.   
  
  Q. What's it like to be a part of something like this?  
 RACHEL ROHANNA: Oh, it's awesome. It's completely different than any other tournament. Being here, you just can't even like get upset or anything about any shot.  
 So it's just like amazing to be out here and to be able to be with all these like great players.  
  
  Q. What were the nerves like on the first tee yesterday?  
 RACHEL ROHANNA: I was really nervous. I actually like I think my adrenaline was going so much I ended up hitting my 3-wood 20 yards farther than I would normally and drove it through the fairway.  
 But I think today I got even a little bit more nervous. I was like standing over my chip shot that I had to go to and standing there for 10 minutes. At first I wasn't too bad, but as soon as I put my club down after they blew the horn, it was like concrete went through my body.  
  
  Q. Explain how tough it was to have the round broken up from yesterday to today.   
 RACHEL ROHANNA: It's tough, especially like if you know the shot you have to play next, and mine wasn't the easiest shot. So I had to sleep on that all night. My family kept telling me to shut up every time I was like, Oh, this is going to be a tough shot and stuff.   
 So that was probably the hardest part. But at the same time like I had just come off a hole that I didn't do too well on, so at least I could slow myself down. The whole field pretty much went through it, so I wasn't gonna complain too much.  
  
  Q. I know your tee time this afternoon will probably be pretty late. What are you doing for the rest of the day?  
 RACHEL ROHANNA: Probably some homework, summer school classes. Probably some of that. My aunt and uncle are in from Utah, so maybe like go out to lunch with them, kind of hang around. Definitely Starbucks.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT