NBA 2K LEAGUE DRAFT
April 4, 2018
Dayne Downey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Dayne Downey was selected by Blazer5 Gaming with the No. 6 overall pick in the 2018 NBA 2K League Draft. His gamer tag is OneWildWalnut.
Q. What pick were you?
DAYNE DOWNEY: Six.
Q. 6th pick; going to Portland.  You ever been?
DAYNE DOWNEY: Never been to Portland.
Q. Looked forward to it?
DAYNE DOWNEY: I am, I am.  Yeah, West Coast.  I'm from LA, was born in Cali, so I got this West Coast feel and stuff like that.
Definitely excited to go up north and get a different feel but still in the same kind of area.
Q. You went 6th.  Did you think there was a shot you were going to go higher or is that about where you felt you were going to go?
DAYNE DOWNEY: I actually felt that I went a little higher than -- I was anticipating a mid-to late first-round, but definitely centers are valuable and I know my value, as I said, and what I could bring to the team as its first round, first pick of the team.
So, it wasn't surprising that I went first round and as a first pick to a team, but six was definitely like, you know, that's cool.
Q. Bunch of point guards went already.
DAYNE DOWNEY: Yep.
Q. You guys get to pick one in the second round probably.
DAYNE DOWNEY: Right.
Q. Who do you want to play with at point guard?
DAYNE DOWNEY: Man, Mama Im Dat Man, I played with him.  He's a great point guard.
MaJes7ic is a great point guard that I love to play with.
KennyGotWork, Timely had that experience with being in the 250K tournament last year.  Any one of those guys would be great.
I'm not sure if they're going to (indiscernible) second round, but I trust the Blazers to make that decision.
Q. Are you the youngest, if not one of the youngest?
DAYNE DOWNEY: So I am the second youngest in the league.  Splash King or splash something, a shooting guard, he's the youngest.  His birthday is June; he'll be turning 19.  My birthday is in May and I'll be turning 19.
Q. So high school to the NBA 2K league?
DAYNE DOWNEY: High school to the NBA 2K league.  Yeah, no college.  Obviously in college right now, but, yeah.
Q. What is that transition going to be like?  It's a dream, right?
DAYNE DOWNEY: It's a dream.  Yeah, it's hard to explain.  Schooling is going to take a little break.  My whole life is on a break with this with all my focus on it.
But I'm ready.  I embrace this opportunity.  Once this is over I get to come back in the fall and still be playing basketball at my college that I'm currently at, my sophomore year.
And so to be able to come back to my real life and to have people that trust me and understand this opportunity that I have, that I have to take it.  It's something I can't say no to.  It's too good.  I worked too hard to say no to it, and I embraced all of it.
Q. And your family?
DAYNE DOWNEY: At first they -- they'll never tell me no or not embrace me, but at first of it was very tough explaining it to them when I made the 250, what it meant.  I'm a gamer, you know, stuff like that.  Just tough, especially the older generation.
Once I explained it to them that I made the 102, got that phone call from Mr. [Brendan] Donohue, it all became real.  They did their research, and now they're all on board, family members, friends, everything.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT