WNBA FINALS: FEVER v MERCURY
October 7, 2009
Cappie Pondexter
Penny Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Phoenix Mercury 90
  Indiana Fever  77 
   
  Q. Cappie or Penny, either one of you, it seemed like Indiana's defense was matador defense all night, you could go anywhere you wanted to. Is that what you guys sensed tonight?   
 PENNY TAYLOR: Not exactly, no. I think we were attacking hard on the dribble, which opened a lot of things up for us. There are certain plays they can't leave to come and help on the penetration, so we tried to take advantage of that and getting to the middle of the key. Got some more free-throws tonight so, you know, it's something we're looking at doing to be more aggressive to get ourselves going from inside the key.   
 CAPPIE PONDEXTER: I thought we did a great job on the perimeter attacking the defense, using the pick-and-roll. We know that Indiana has a great defense, especially that weak-side help, but we were looking to be aggressive from the beginning and I think we did a great job of that.   
  
  Q. Cappie, just in a tough game like this elimination game, talk about the mentality you have to have coming into a game like this. I think you guys were, like you said, aggressive from the beginning. What is the mentality you need to have playing on the road in a game like this?   
 CAPPIE PONDEXTER: I think the first thing is being calm, not looking at it as elimination. We know our backs were against the wall, but we couldn't focus on that. We had to come out and play Mercury basketball, which I think we did for forty minutes. We wanted to come out very positive with a lot of energy on both end of the floor and attack.   
 I think that was key for us tonight.   
  
  Q. Every time Indiana seemed to sort of get something going you guys seemed to counter really quickly. What do you think was behind that? How you were able to score so easily?   
 CAPPIE PONDEXTER: Well, I think we were aggressive from the start. You know, we kinda put them on their heels, so when they tried to come out for a run we had the momentum. We knew we had to get a stop and we knew we needed to score when they made their run. So like I said, we were aggressive from the beginning.   
 PENNY TAYLOR: And our strength all year has been our confidence in our attack and tonight I felt like we got that back. We were playing with confidence and attacking every single time down the floor and that's hard to defend for forty minutes.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thanks, ladies.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT