WNBA FINALS: FEVER v MERCURY
October 4, 2009
Cappie Pondexter
Diana Taurasi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Phoenix Mercury 85
  Indiana Fever  86 
   
  Q. Diana, got to start by asking you about the technical, what happened there?   
 DIANA TAURASI: I was laying on the floor, I got up to run down the court, and my head, as I was coming up, she was coming this way, and, you know, we collided.   
  
  Q. Did you get the T for that or for the reaction?   
 KATIE DOUGLAS: He said I elbowed her, which you clearly watched the replay, I don't think there was an elbow thrown. She did mess up my bun though, so she should get a technical for that.   
  
  Q. What were you guys trying to get on that last shot?   
 CAPPIE PONDEXTER: It was designed for Penny. I think I overthrew the pass and it ended up in Tangela's hand, and Tangela got a decent look and Ebony blocked the shot, but we had numerous chances to get a good-looking shot. We didn't execute. Sometimes that happens.   
  
  Q. Cappie, you had a great game offensively, except you missed a couple shots late. Tell us what happened in the last few minutes.   
 CAPPIE PONDEXTER: Thank you for reminding me, I appreciate that. Like I said before, I got a couple good looks toward the end of the game. You know, sometimes I hit, sometimes I don't, it happens. But we had a lot of chances, you know, to make the shot but it didn't happen.   
 You know, got to move on now. Got Game 4 Wednesday and that's the most important thing right now.   
  
  Q. You know, they seem to have been much more effective in this game in blocking the three-point shot. Is there something they're doing on you that's creating that problem or is it a matter of the shot is not falling?   
 DIANA TAURASI: Sometimes you can go up and shoot it the same way, and it sometimes just doesn't go in. I don't know personally how many wide-open shots I got and you just can't knock them down, and that's something you have to do, especially at this stage of the series, of the game. If you don't knock down those open shots, they come down and Ebony does hit it and the game's over. I had a couple, Cap had a couple we just got to knock them down.   
  
  Q. Penny gave them trouble in the first two games and they seemed to have better containment there, is she still suffering from that lacerated lip?   
 DIANA TAURASI: No, she's fine, she's 100%, they're a big team, they are physical and they get you out of your sets, and they did a good job of that and we're going to have to try to find a way to counteract that in the next game.  
  
  Q. Diana you talked about missing shots but also they went on a 12-2 run to end the third quarter, on a run to start the game. Talk about the defense and how your team needs to react to that.   
 DIANA TAURASI: I think for the most part we did a good job containing penetration, which had been hurting us, but in crucial moments we didn't get stops, which is something we need to do, something we're going to have to concentrate on.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about the importance to you of getting back home and what it is you feel you need to do in order to get there?   
 DIANA TAURASI: Well, for one we have to come out and play at a level that we haven't played at so far in these Finals and we know we can. That's what got us here.   
 I think we have to do some things on both ends of the basketball court to give us more opportunities, easier opportunities and that stems from getting stops, getting the rebound, and getting back to the way we play a little bit. If we do that I think we'll be okay.   
 CAPPIE PONDEXTER: You want me to answer that?   
 It's tough to say. Game 3 is probably the hardest we fought out of this whole series and it's tough when you lose like that. So I think now it's mental more than anything. Game 4, I think we have to be stronger mentally. And I think the rest will take care of itself. We battled today, we really did on both ends of the floor and it sucks when you lose by one point with a hard fought game like that.   
 DIANA TAURASI: Lose by a head butt, check that out.   
 CAPPIE PONDEXTER: We're going to go out fighting, we're not going to lay down easy in Game 4 for sure.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thanks a lot.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT