ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE BASEBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
May 24, 2018
Jim Morris
Michael Burns
Jeb Bargfeldt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Clemson - 7, Miami - 1
JIM MORRIS: First of all, I want to congratulate Clemson.  They've got an outstanding club, and Monte and his staff has done an outstanding job.  They're big, strong guys that can swing the bat if you give them something to hit.  It was a great game other than that one inning, but they earned what they got and they swung the bat.  But I thought we played good.  I thought they played good, but things got out of control in one inning, and they can really swing the bats.
For our team, as Yogi says, it's not over until it's over, so I want to see what happens Monday.  We won 11 games in a row before tonight.  We got a winning record in the ACC, which is one of the top conferences in the country, and I would hope that a winning record in the ACC would mean just as much as it would a record in the SEC or any other conference, in particular the SEC because some clubs look like they're going to get in that have less than a .500 record in their conference, and we have some big wins.  I think we started six freshmen tonight, and we've started five or six freshmen every game all year.  Those guys have gotten better and they've improved, and we've just got to cross our fingers and say a prayer before we go to bed and hope that some way Monday we get in, and nobody better than our two captains to be here.
Q. Jeb, they were able to get runners on base, but it looked like you were using both sides of the plate, changing speeds.  Talk about how you were able to keep them off balance there until the inning.
JEB BARGFELDT: Well, like he said, they're a great offensive club, and there's not an easy out in that lineup at all.  Luckily I was able to work both sides of the plate, and even when guys got on, it never really felt like, okay, I'm really in some hot water here.  I did have command of both sides of the plate and a few of my off-speed pitches.  Really that helped me out in those innings, and then I left one over the plate there to start the sixth, and unfortunately the ball started rolling after that.
Q. How much did you want this one for three, and to make the run that you guys made down the stretch to kind of give this team some life, what did that mean to you guys?
MICHAEL BURNS: That man over there is what college baseball is all about.  You know, I never told him this, but he gave me my life back, and just did it by being himself.  He expects high, he acts with class all the time, and so that -- of course we wanted it for him.  I wanted it for him so bad that it's coming out of me right now.  It's for three, and he's an amazing man, an amazing coach.
JEB BARGFELDT: Just to build on that, this guy is a legend and he's going to be on the college baseball Mount Rushmore for everybody.  He should be, at least.
Building on what Mike said, these last two years I've just tried to be a sponge, tried to take in what he's been able to bring to the field every day, and I felt like I have doubled if not tripled my baseball knowledge just hanging out with him, just watching how he goes about his day.
You know, there's a lot of hanging heads on that bus because we didn't get it done for him for sure.
Q. Just to follow up, how much pride do you guys take in the fact that this team battled?  You were eight games under .500 a couple weeks ago and now you've got a winning record, the fact this team responded late in the year?
MICHAEL BURNS: That's a testament to him, once again.  We took our bumps and bruises at the beginning.  You know, the ball didn't roll our way sometimes, just crazy stuff happened, and we got rolling, and we kind of showed what we got.  That's a testament to coaching, and I think these young guys are going to -- they're going to be great.  They're going to be a great team.  No matter what happens on Monday, we're hoping for the best, of course.  I would love to play another day with these guys, but I'm a proud Miami Hurricane, and I will always be a Miami Hurricane.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT