PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 17, 2019
Tyler Hall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  First off, can you just run through your round a little bit, what went wrong, what were the challenges.  
TYLER HALL: Yeah, the putting was outstanding today.  I mean, I made a lot of really good saves.  Didn't hit a lot of fairways, which to put up 2-over, bogeying two of my last three, to put up 2-over and not hitting many fairways was pretty good.   
So the putter definitely was working.  A bunch of those real big holes, I missed it by a step or two, so I was hacking out and laying up and just chipping it close and knocking them in.   
So a lot of really good momentum, with a nice par save on No. 15, kind of kept really going.  And then had a really nice run on 17, almost made birdie.  And 18, knocked that one in to turn it 1-under.   
So, yeah, was just one of those rounds that every time I felt like I was out of it, I knocked one in to keep momentum going forward.   
 Q.  What was the feeling playing in your first major?  
TYLER HALL: Incredible.  I'm very blessed to be playing in my first major kind of in my backyard.  So the support out there was way more than I could have imagined.  A lot of friends and family stuck out to the very end.  Every time I made a par, the place went nuts.  So it was really cool to be part of this whole experience.  Put up a pretty good number day one.   
 Q.  Is there a moment that sticks out in terms of coolness?  
TYLER HALL: Yeah, I think really the part of the course you want to be the coolest is kind of 15, 16, 17, 18, that just -- I won't forget that forever.  Knocking that putt in on 15, the guys going nuts, I made like a sidewinder 20-footer for par, and then to stuff it in there on 17, the guys went nuts, just burned the edge.  And then 18 coming up the hill, hit a wedge close and dumped one in for about 12 feet.  That was probably the coolest golf moment I've had to date.   
 Q.  And then you know you're --I'm sure you're not leaderboard watching, maybe you are, but you know you're playing well, and you know this is where you play well --  
TYLER HALL: Yeah, you know, I -- we bogeyed -- we bogeyed -- coming in we bogeyed two of our last three, and we're standing on the last green with a 20-footer for birdie, and we're 2-over, and my caddie is like, You know what, I know you struggled last few holes, and I'm like, Hey, if you were going to sell me 2-over to start this day, I would have bought it.  Big time.   
So yeah, you know, I was checking out the leaderboard.  Tough not to see.  Koepka shot a 63 out there.  That was not in my bag.  So it was kind of just an "in awe" moment, but it was the gun sounded and it was time to work.   
 Q.  What's the mindset or the goal for tomorrow?  
TYLER HALL: Tomorrow, I think if I can just straighten it out a little bit, hit my lines a little better, give my putter a little rest on the par saves and see a few more birdie chances, yeah, you know, I'd like to put up another good one and definitely be somewhere in a good shot position going into the weekend.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT