PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 17, 2019
Tyler Hall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TYLER HALL: Right now just a little beat up.  I was pretty close there, and just kind of let it go at the end.  But what I an incredible two days and incredible week, really, to get to walk these grounds and be with guys I look up to and guys I use as models for my everyday life, to be kind of in the mix and right there with some pretty big names, it's surreal.   
 Q.  Usually when these majors come around, you're watching it on the television.  Now you're walking right by.  
TYLER HALL: Yes.   
 Q.  Did this exceed your expectations?  
TYLER HALL: Oh, yeah, it blew me away.  The way the PGA ran the PPC two weeks ago down in South Carolina, that had PGA feel.  I've been lucky enough to get in before, and that had the same feel.  They do an incredible job.   
And then to parlay that into this week and being close to home with family and friends, my membership, I just -- I couldn't have picked a better scenario for my first one.   
 Q.  How was that playing in your backyard?  Any nervousness at all?  
TYLER HALL: I didn't know my backyard was so difficult.  I need to get the weed-whacker out.  Yeah, you know, I approached this week, I knew it was going to be loud, I knew it was going to be noisy.  Gary Woodland is a very good friend of mine, former teammate.  So we got out there on Tuesday for practice rounds.  I got the feeling of being on stage for every shot and feeling the crowds.   
So yeah, just kind of took this week and embraced it.  I didn't let it scare me.  I felt very comfortable out there.  It was more let me show them what I can do, not, oh, God, don't hit a bad shot.   
 Q.  Five years, ten years down the road, what is going to be your biggest takeaway from your first-ever major?  
TYLER HALL: I'm hoping that it's -- it was preparation to get in the next one.  You know, I think just, again, the experience being here at Bethpage in New York, right next to home, family, friends, it's just -- yeah, it was beyond anything I could ever kind of dream of.   
But I know five, ten years from now, I'm going to look back at this tournament and say that this is the one that propelled me into the good finish that I'm going to have in this.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT