WIMBLEDON
June 28, 2004
Karolina Sprem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Karolina for you.  Questions, please. 


Q.  You seem to be getting a little bit of luck that you need in a tournament like this. 

KAROLINA SPREM:  Sorry? 

Q.  You seem to be getting little bits of luck. 

KAROLINA SPREM:  Luck?  Why? 

Q.  I'm not saying you're playing very well. 

KAROLINA SPREM:  I don't know.  Why are you saying this? 

Q.  Well, you got a bounce on match point which went very low which she couldn't get. 

KAROLINA SPREM:  Yeah, maybe.  But yesterday I twist my ankle on the practice with Maleeva, before the match with Shaughnessy.  I didn't sleep well.  I have pain.  Today I was like nervous.  I was want to finish this match the fast as what I can because I was feeling a little bit pain.  I didn't sleep well.  But it's okay.  I didn't play so well, like I was playing against Venus.  And yesterday against Shaughnessy, I didn't serve well, 51%.  But it's good and I'm happy that I was win this match. 

Q.  It's the first time you get this far in a Grand Slam.  How does that feel?

KAROLINA SPREM:  Great, perfect, unbelievable feeling.  I'm tired right now.  I don't know if I playing tomorrow.  It will be good that I have tomorrow a day off, and I have some treatment for my leg.  I will be better prepared for my next match. 

Q.  Do you get the impression that people treat you differently now that you come so far?

KAROLINA SPREM:  No, not really. 

Q.  Is it for you anything different?  Do you do things different now?

KAROLINA SPREM:  I'm going more to the interview, but anything special, no.  It's everything like before, so... 

Q.  Did you sleep badly last night because of nerves?

KAROLINA SPREM:  No, because I having a pain.  So I sleep like 3:00 in the morning.  I didn't know before the match if I will play or not.  But they taped me well, the leg, and I didn't feel the pain.  But in the match, it's difficult when you think on the leg and not on the match.  You need to be concentrate on the next point.  I was concentrate on my leg, not on the match.  So it was difficult to me.  I was having like -- I was fighting against Maleeva and I was fighting against my leg.

Q.  What has the physio said to you about your ankle?

KAROLINA SPREM:  It's a little bit bigger than it's supposed to be, and it's bruised.  But it's okay.  I don't know, we will see.  It depends if I have tomorrow day off, it will be great if I have.  I will have treatment today and tomorrow, and I hope so it will be for two days good. 

Q.  Do you feel like you've got a bit of momentum going in this tournament now?  Perhaps you could go all the way?

KAROLINA SPREM:  I don't know.  It's a big question.  Like I said, I just playing match by match, point by point.  If I can win next match, I will be happy.  But, you know, now I just want to go on the court, play hundred percent, if I can.  If I can, I want to win this match. 

Q.  Are you surprised that you got this far?

KAROLINA SPREM:  Maybe, yeah.  Maybe not.  But I was playing against Venus before two, three month, and I have big chance.  And I was playing against Shaughnessy before two months, and I win this match.  And I was playing against Maleeva before two, three months also.  I also beat her.  So not really.  But it's a big, you know, be in the quarterfinal here in the Wimbledon.  I didn't think that I will do this, but I'm happy with that. 

Q.  Most people say it's very hard to keep your concentration for two weeks.   How do you do it?

KAROLINA SPREM:  It's not easy.  It's not easy.  It's my first time that my tournament is like two weeks.  Now I'm in the second week.  I'm a little bit tired.  And physically, you know, you have many matches, many days behind you.  So, but, I'm doing well. 

Q.  What were your thoughts when you learned that the umpire from the match with Venus was told not to do any more matches here?

KAROLINA SPREM:  Sorry? 

Q.  What were your thoughts when you heard that the umpire from your match with Venus Williams was taken off the rest of the tournament?

KAROLINA SPREM:  What can I say?  You know, it's not my business.  I leave this behind me.  I don't want to like think about this, and I don't want to talk about this anymore.  It's bad luck for him, but he was need to do the job, you know.  I had like I don't know how many people in the court, and they need to do what they are thinking in this point, because it's not my job to thinking,  "Well, what's the score?"  I was thinking, if I don't know, that's Venus.  If she doesn't know, that's umpire need to know.  We are on the Centre Court on the Wimbledon, so what can I say? 

Q.  So, there's nothing reflecting on it you would have done differently after this time to think about it? 

KAROLINA SPREM:  I was confused in this moment.  I didn't know what's happening.  It's something happening, that Venus she need to know.  She was playing more matches than me on the Centre Court.  It's umpire here.  What can I say?  It's bad luck for him that he lose the job.  I'm really sorry for him because to all can happen something this.  But this is the Wimbledon, and we was playing the Centre Court.  There's the problem.

Q.  Some of the other players have said if they were in your situation, they might have thought about it. 

KAROLINA SPREM:  Who? 

Q.  Andy Roddick. 

KAROLINA SPREM:  It's not my problem.  He can say whatever he wants.  But I say, I leave this behind me.  I don't want to talk about this anymore.  Thank you. 

Q.  What have you been doing to relax during the time you've been away from the court?

KAROLINA SPREM:  Relax, right now.  I just want to go to the hotel and sleep because I need to sleep.  I was sleeping just four hours and I'm tired.  I will say again, if I'm not playing tomorrow, it will be good for me because I will have some day rest and I will have more treatment today and tomorrow.  It will be good for my leg.

Q.  Just sleep?

KAROLINA SPREM:  Right now just sleep.

Q.  Did you enjoy yourself on the court today?

KAROLINA SPREM:  I was a little bit nervous because I was want to finish the match the fast as what I can because I was thinking in my leg, and it's not easy when you thinking something else, not by the match and the next point.  But I'm happy, of course, that I win this match. 

Q.  Have you had any trouble with this injury in the past?

KAROLINA SPREM:  I was one time when I playing Fed Cup in Russia, I twist the same leg.  So maybe this.  But it's okay.  I need to knock (knocking on wood).  It's nothing serious. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT