WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2004
Karolina Sprem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions in English, please.


Q.  You are starting to make a bit of an impact now, aren't you?

KAROLINA SPREM:  I don't know (laughing).  Yeah, it was great day today again.  I was just -- it was tough to go on the court because after so big win against Venus, it's not easy play today. But I was just going on the court and I was just want to play the match how I was playing against Venus, my tennis.  And she was playing well.  She was serving well.  She was return well.  She's also one of great player.


Q.  How long did it take you to come down to Earth after beating Venus?

KAROLINA SPREM:  I don't know.  Before I was going to sleep this day, I was just say, "You need to forget this.  It's big win for you, but you need to forget this.  Tomorrow, it's new day.  You have practice, you need to rest, and you need to prepare for the next match."


Q.  What were the keys in both of the tiebreakers for you?

KAROLINA SPREM:  I don't know.  She was serving well and I was having problem with this.  And I didn't know what to do.  But I was just focused in my match and I was focused on the next point, I think.  So that was the key.  And I have, in the second set, 6-5 and the serve.  Then I lost the serve.  I was really like a little bit down because she was serving well and I was losing the point when she was serving.  And I was just - I don't know - she missed some point and I come up.  And then I start to serve well and...  But she was all the time in the match.


Q.  Do you get nervous at critical stages?  Because in the first set you had seven set points, didn't you, and you took some time to close the set out in the tiebreak?

KAROLINA SPREM:  Yeah, but I was nervous, but I was nervous just when I have 6-5 in the second set.  Because I knew that I need to take this my service because after having had problem because she's serving well.  But it's okay.  Fourth time I win in the tiebreak this week, so I'm tiebreak specialist.  And it's okay (laughing).


Q.  You have had a little bit of criticism from both Serena and Andy Roddick over the point during the tiebreak...

KAROLINA SPREM:  I don't care.  I don't care.  This is behind me.


Q.  Did that upset you slightly or not?

KAROLINA SPREM:  A little bit, yeah, because - I don't know.  Because in this situation, like I say, I didn't know what to do.  And I was like confused.  I didn't know what's happening.  I had like -- if I didn't know was the score, then maybe she know.  But if she didn't know, then umpire supposed to know but...


Q.  And he obviously has subsequently lost his job.  So there's obviously some blame there with the umpire anyway.

KAROLINA SPREM:  Bad luck for him.  But we have so many people in the court and they need to know the score, not me in this moment.  It was really big moment for me, and I didn't think about this. So this is behind me, and I don't want to talk about it.


Q.  It obviously made you a little bit angry, though, did it?  Has that helped to spur you on a little bit today?  Has it helped you today, because it obviously left you a little bit angry?

KAROLINA SPREM:  No, I'm not angry.  That's for sure.  No, why?  I don't have reason to be angry.


Q.  No?  Even with Roddick?  I thought it was rather strange that he would get involved.  Serena, obviously, because it was her sister, but for Roddick to say something...

KAROLINA SPREM:  I don't have problem with this.  I don't want to talk about him and about Serena.


Q.  You had a good Miami.  Your clay court season wasn't very good.  Roland Garros, obviously, not so good?

KAROLINA SPREM:  Not Roland Garros, but I was playing semifinal in Berlin against Venus.  I was playing the great match.  And I think that this match help me against Venus before three days, so...


Q.  Consistency-wise, here you come out and win four good matches, then Venus, Meghann today.  Did you know that that was coming?  You knew you had the talent, but mentally did you know?

KAROLINA SPREM:  I don't know.  Maybe I was -- in Roland Garros, I was like feeling a little bit pressure because everybody expecting something from me in there.  And I lose in the first round.  After, I was like down.  But it's okay.  That's tennis.  That's the game.  After, I was practicing well and I knew that I can do this, that I can play the good tennis.  I showed that I can play a good tennis here on the Wimbledon so...


Q.  Do you like this surface?  Do you like grass?

KAROLINA SPREM:  It's nice.  I can say it's good.  Fast.  It's good.


Q.  You hit the ball so hard, don't you?

KAROLINA SPREM:  Yeah, I'm hitting the ball all the time so...


Q.  Why did you choose tennis over soccer and swimming and all the other sports?  Football, excuse me.

KAROLINA SPREM:  Why?


Q.  As a child, why did you choose tennis?  You look like a good athlete.  Why did you pick tennis over other sports?

KAROLINA SPREM:  Because I like to play the tennis.  I was having the fun.  That's the most, I having the fun on the court and I'm enjoying when I'm playing, so...


Q.  Were you a good swimmer?

KAROLINA SPREM:  Yeah (laughing).


Q.  How good?

KAROLINA SPREM:  Good (laughing).  Pretty good.  Why?


Q.  Could you have swum for your country?

KAROLINA SPREM:  No.


Q.  Just a very good...

KAROLINA SPREM:  Just like that, yeah.


Q.  What stroke?

KAROLINA SPREM:  Everything.  But on the first place is the tennis, and I'm think that I'm just for the tennis and I don't want to try anything else.  So tennis, it's on the first place from the beginning so...


Q.  We don't know an awful lot about you.  Who were your tennis heroines as a young girl?

KAROLINA SPREM:  Like young player, I always like Mary Pierce.


Q.  Really?

KAROLINA SPREM:  Yeah, she was like something special for me then.  She was win the Roland Garros and all these big tournament.  She's a -- yeah, I always like her.  I don't know why, but she was playing the good tennis.


Q.  Not Iva?

KAROLINA SPREM:  Iva?


Q.  Iva won Roland Garros when you were pretty young, right?

KAROLINA SPREM:  Of course.  And Ivanisevic won the Wimbledon, so...


Q.  Did you think about following in Iva Majoli's footsteps, playing like she played - aggressive, baseline tennis?

KAROLINA SPREM:  Well, won the Roland Garros, yeah.  And won the Wimbledon like Ivanisevic, yeah.  Why not?  So...


Q.  You talk about expectation.  What do you expect of yourself here?

KAROLINA SPREM:  Here?  Tomorrow, it's new day, new match.  So I don't know what can happen tomorrow.  But like always, I say I just want to go on the court, do my best, play my best tennis what I can.  And if I can, I want to win the match.


Q.  You seem very confident.  Were you not surprised to beat Venus?

KAROLINA SPREM:  No.  Because before, like I said (inaudible), I was playing against her.  In the third set I have 3-0, and I was having the big chance there.  And I lost this match.  And I was like a little bit down after this match.  But, again, there's the tennis.  I have the chance play against her here on Wimbledon, on Centre Court, and I took this chance, and I win this match.


Q.  If you could win a Slam, what would it be - this one, or France or which one?

KAROLINA SPREM:  This one and the France and... (laughing).  I don't know.  If I have the chance, yeah.  But I don't want to think about this.


Q.  You don't have a favorite tournament?

KAROLINA SPREM:  Every tournament I play like a Grand Slam.  So every tournament what I play, I want to win.  But it's not possible. But every point, every set, and every match I want to play the best and take the point and take the set and take the match if I can so...


Q.  What do you consider to be the strongest parts of your game and what are the weakest parts of your game?

KAROLINA SPREM:  I don't know.  I like my forehand.  I like the backhand.  I like the serve.  Maybe more I need to come on the net.  I was coming on the net against Venus, and maybe was that the key that I win this match.  And I was serving well, and I was 100% in my match.  I don't know.  You see better of the court than me (smiling).


Q.  You look in harmony with yourself.  Are you?

KAROLINA SPREM:  "Harmony"?


Q.  I mean in mind, in mood...

KAROLINA SPREM:  Maybe I am.  I don't know (laughing).


Q.  You seem happy girl.

KAROLINA SPREM:  Yeah, I am happy all the time.  I am smiling all the time.  That's good.


Q.  Good nature.

KAROLINA SPREM:  Yeah, that's good.


Q.  Do you take after your mother or your father for your happiness and your disposition?

KAROLINA SPREM:  Sorry?


Q.  Do you take after your mother or your father?

KAROLINA SPREM:  My dad is all the time with me, and my mom, she don't have a time and she's at home with my sister.  But I have my coach here, my physiotherapist, and my sparring partner.  So four people with me.  It's good team.


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT