TELECOM ITALIA MASTERS
May 11, 2004
Karolina Sprem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Karolina, please.  
 
 
Q.  You played a semifinal in Berlin, now you're on center court this first round.  How do you feel on the court?
 
KAROLINA SPREM:  No, I was feeling really great.  I was going on the court to do my best today, and I was trying to play the same like I was playing against Venus, the best tennis what I can.  I think that today I was doing the best what I can so... 
 
Q.  Did you expect it to be so easy?
 
KAROLINA SPREM:  No.  Honest, no, I didn't.  But like I said, I didn't think about this, and I was just going on the court.  I was trying to play the best tennis what I can, like last week.  
 
Q.  Last year you improved about 200 positions in the WTA rankings.  This year, you keep on coming up, higher and higher in the rankings.  Do you think there is a specific reason for that, or just that you can play more important tournaments and meet more important players?
 
KAROLINA SPREM:  I don't know the key in my game, is just that now I have a lot of confidence and I believe in myself and when I going on the court, I think that I can beat anyone.  I think that this is the important thing.  I know that I was here last year and I always want to play this tournament, but I was trying to get the wildcard for the quali but I didn't get it.  Now I'm happy that this year I am here and that I can play the main draw.  
 
Q.  Now that you have these results, do you feel sort of a psychological pressure, or are you relaxed as before?
 
KAROLINA SPREM:  No, I am relaxed.  I don't want to think about this.  For me, it's important to play the best tennis what I can, and I having fun on the court.  I love tennis, and that's it.  I don't want to think about this, the numbers.  This is just the numbers, nothing else.  
 
Q.  Are you a friend with Ivanisevic?
 
KAROLINA SPREM:  I know him just like that, but nothing else. 
 
Q.  Was he a sort of inspiration for you?
 
KAROLINA SPREM:  Yeah, of course.  He's the biggest player, what I can say?  He's great, like, person and great, big player.  But he's good with my coach.  I see him sometimes.  We spoke sometimes, but that's all.  
 
Q.  What is your relationship with Italy and the Italians?  Is this the first time you come here?  Do you feel sort of proximity to Italy or...? 
 
KAROLINA SPREM:  I was here last year, but I'm playing first time here main draw.  I'm feeling good here.  It's a great  -- the people are great here, and I'm having fun here.  That's important.  I feel like home.  
 
Q.  Who is your favorite player?  Who inspired you the most in the history of tennis?
 
KAROLINA SPREM:  I don't know right now.  When I was young, I like Mary Pierce.  I don't know if she was really the great player for me.  But now it's difficult.  Every player has something special, so every player are the best, and they're really good person.  
 
Q.  You have newspapers in the players lounge.  Maybe you noticed that when journalists write about female players, they often talk about beauty, who is the most handsome.  What do you feel about that?  Is it something important for a player, or do you think that should be left aside? 
 
KAROLINA SPREM:  Oops... I don't know (laughing).  That's a big question.  I don't know.  I just want to play the tennis.  Like I say, I having fun on the court.  This is the great feeling, go on the court and having fun and win - I don't know - the match, the tournament.  I'm playing because of that, because I love this.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT