ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 5, 2016
Jimmy Gunn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PAUL SYMES: Welcome to the Scottish Open, your first European Tour event.  Great week to make it.   
JIMMY GUNN: I've actually played it on Monday and played nine holes this morning with Scott Jamieson and Marc Warren.  The course looks great.   
PAUL SYMES: And how have you acclimatised?  Probably a bit colder here than in the States recently.   
JIMMY GUNN: Yeah, a little bit.  When I left, it was 112 in Phoenix.  Takes a little bit getting adjusted but I'm getting there.   
 Q.  We had Russell in here and talked about the expectation that's on him as the leading Scot in world golf and coming home to Inverness.  How does it feel for you coming here and getting an invitation in do you feel pressure or a real opportunity?  
JIMMY GUNN: A little bit of both.  Expectation I probably have myself; my game is in good shape, so I'm expecting to play well.  Maybe a little bit of pressure being in front of my home fans.   
 Q.  A lot of people might not know too much about you or what you're doing in the States.  Could you maybe describe your career and where you are?  
JIMMY GUNN: I moved out in 2007 and pretty much played mini-tours until three years ago.  I was on the Web.com tour and lost my card and I had to go back to Q-School last year and get it back again.  So I've been playing the Web all year.  We have seven tournaments left on that tour, so I need a good finish to the end of the season on that tour just to keep my card.   
 Q.  Talking to Luke Donald about being at the very top of the rankings and Russell trying to get there.  Do you see yourself as capable of getting to the higher reaches of the game?  
JIMMY GUNN: Yeah, I mean obviously you've probably seen and heard, I did pretty well in the US Open last year.  Played with some great players and obviously I played pretty well.  Being amongst those kind of guys, probably gave me some good confidence coming down the end of the year there, and then got my Web.com Tour card back.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT