BARRACUDA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 2, 2014
John Mallinger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   John, 19 points today.   That's a new tournament record in this format.   Just give some comments on what was obviously a memorable day.   
JOHN MALLINGER:   Yeah, I just started off a little bit slow.   Only had a couple of birdies on the front and then made the turn and made a 1, kind of kickstarted my day.   
But obviously I got to first thank Chris Hoff and Barracuda for giving me a spot here.   I wasn't in the tournament.   They gave me a sponsor's exemption.   Thank you for that.   Just kind of got some confidence from there.   Made some birdies coming in.   Freed myself up, basically.  
   
 Q.   Take us through that hole, No. 11.   
JOHN MALLINGER:   Perfect club for me.   I think it was 150 yards playing a little downwind.   9‑iron.   You can't see; it's elevated.   I hit it.   They all clapped.   I was like, is it close, is that in.   I saw someone go like this.   Sounds like I got a Lexus.  
   
 Q.   That's right.   What does it do for your confidence when you get a hole in one and you still have holes left, what does that do for you?  
JOHN MALLINGER:   In this format, you get five points obviously you're right back in the tournament.   So for me I knew I had some birdie holes coming off par 5.   Hit a close one the next hole, par 5.   Get some momentum going and next thing you know you're right back in the tournament.  
   
 Q.   Pretty incredible, you said you got a sponsor's exemption, you're here, now just set a new course record.   Tell me about that.   
JOHN MALLINGER:   Obviously I can't thank them enough.   I've in the position where I was going back and forth.   I was on medical.   So I've been playing PGA and Web.com and Chris and Barracuda gave me a spot.   So I'm so glad to be here and playing well for them.   
   
 Q.   Probably gained a new fan today in addition to you getting the Lexus, fan through the Quicken Loans Hole in One Sweepstakes, get a year's worth of mortgage payments?  
JOHN MALLINGER:   Just found out.   I don't know how many there are this year, but that's great news for somebody that gets a free mortgage for a year.   
The TOUR does so much for a lot of things and for charity or something like that.   Quicken Loans, to give back, that's amazing.  
   
 Q.   Did you find out what kind of Lexus it is yet?  
JOHN MALLINGER:   I didn't.   I don't know if it's the one out there, if they're going to send me one.   But either way, it's a car.  
   
 Q.   Probably don't really care that much, do you?  
JOHN MALLINGER:   It's all right.   It's just a bonus.  
   
 Q.   What was the key to the round today, overall?  
JOHN MALLINGER:   I was playing really well early.   And I just wasn't holing any putts.   And finally in the back, that one just kickstarted me and I got a little more aggressive because I knew I was back in the tournament.   So made some really nice putts coming in.   Birdied the last two which was nice.  
   
 Q.   Still a few behind by the end of the day, but some guys‑‑ but in this format anything can happen?  
JOHN MALLINGER:   I know.   That's why I like to come to this tournament.   That's why I was pushing so hard for this spot.   I played so well in the past.   I love this golf course.   I love the city.   And anything can happen tomorrow.   Within two or three holes, you can be 10 points up or 10 points down.   So it's a fun format.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT