FRYS.COM OPEN
October 14, 2010
John Mallinger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MARK STEVENS: Welcome John Mallinger who just shot a five under. You are kind of the first one coming in today so if you would start off talking about the course since this is a new tournament, and then your thoughts about the round today.
 JOHN MALLINGER: I think the golf course is excellent. Fry's took on a fantastic venue. I'm from California, so I'm really comfortable with the grass and the greens out here. But, you know, Frys has done a great job. They went from Scottsdale to here. I think they picked out great spot. Couldn't ask for better weather. I think we will see it all weekend. Looking forward to it.
 MARK STEVENS: General thoughts on how you played today and what were some of the strengths.
 JOHN MALLINGER: Overall it is good. I have been playing well for the last month or so. I just haven't made many putts on the finals day. I got some to drop. 
 Once you got a little momentum going -- I think that's the biggest thing in golf. You get some confidence going. You get some momentum.
 Finally, it is starting to show up. So it is a good feeling.

 Q. Seems like just in time. I think you are 136th right now on the money list. Obviously 125 is that big number with a couple tournaments left. How much are you thinking about that, or how much are you aware of that? 
 JOHN MALLINGER: I'm aware of it obviously. I'm not thinking about it too much. It is kind of out of my power. I just got to play golf, do the best I can. I can't really rely on other people. It basically comes down to me and what I can do. That's the bottom line. If I do it, I do it. If I don't, I don't.

 Q. Just as far as your season has gone, do you think you would be sitting in this position or was there a chance to be a little bit bigger? 
 JOHN MALLINGER: I always don't want to be in a position -- it is always nice to be up on the podium. It is not the position I was looking for right now. I'm taking what I got, and I got to go with it. 
 I got off to a bad start, had some equipment issues. I got those figured out and I got some confidence back.
 And now I feel like I'm back where I should be and playing at the level I should be playing.

 Q. Did you -- you were playing during the FedEx Cup. Were you planning on a nationwide? 
 JOHN MALLINGER: Yeah, I did. (Indiscernible). I actually won I think (indiscernible). But I didn't want to take four or five weeks off. I went down and I went down there quite a while. I had seven and third. It is a tough tour out there. Being in the last couple groups was good.

 Q. It kept you sharp coming into --
 JOHN MALLINGER: Yeah, I was disappointed. I was -- obviously, I was going down, started to win the golf tournament. But I really just wanted to stay competitive. And, fortunately, I got in the last group I think in Boise and same type of feeling down there. 
 And same type of feeling down there as up here. Final group is always the funner group.

 Q. Just talk about your round as far as the (indiscernible) you had and the next round?
 JOHN MALLINGER: Yeah. I started with a couple pars and I made a great putt on 3. The par 3s up here are very tough. Any time you get a birdie on the par 3, it is always a bonus. Birdied the next hole, which was 4. 
 I had a great save on 6 for par, and then I was on the green on 9 and birdied there. I played the par 5s well. It is one of the things out here where two of them I got a layup. One of them I can go for, but for me to play the par 5 to surrender was really good for me.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT