AT&T NATIONAL
July 2, 2010
John Mallinger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Just steady play for you today, one bogey, one birdie. Just comment on the round. 
 JOHN MALLINGER: I just played solid. It's kind of set up like a little mini-major out there. The flags are tough. You don't want to go after them very much, and when you can you've got to take advantage of it. The kind of play you have out there, it's just middle of the green, make a long putt, get to the next hole and keep doing the same thing.

 Q. Talk about the bogey on 2. 
 JOHN MALLINGER: I actually played the hole great, just hit it about 25 feet left and three-putted. 
 Birdie on 15, hit it up in the greenside bunker and then hit it to about 10 feet and made it.

 Q. Jammed up at the top of the leaderboard, too, and these tough conditions. Talk about your mindset going into the weekend. 
 JOHN MALLINGER: Yeah, I'm going to just keep doing the same thing. I don't see it going a whole lot lower. I think the golf course is getting tougher. They've got some pins that are pretty nasty out there. Just kind of keep plodding around and doing my thing, and hopefully I'll come out on top.

 Q. Anything you've done to kind of turn things around after the start to the year?
 JOHN MALLINGER: Little attitude adjustment. I got a new caddie. We're working really well together. Other than that, playing about the same, just starting to score a little better. Putter is working a little better.

 Q. What's your caddie's name?
 JOHN MALLINGER: Brent.

 Q. Last name?
 JOHN MALLINGER: Henley.

 Q. When did you guys start working together?
 JOHN MALLINGER: Probably about a month ago.

 Q. What was kind of the attitude adjustment?
 JOHN MALLINGER: He got me back in shape, attitude adjustment.

 Q. Were you burnt out?
 JOHN MALLINGER: A little bit. I was playing well, I just wasn't scoring well. I wasn't playing the golf course how I should have, and now I'm starting to do that and starting to see some results. When I'd get down I'd start pressing a little bit. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT