U.S. BANK CHAMPIONSHIP IN MILWAUKEE
July 18, 2009
John Mallinger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Okay, I'd like to welcome John Mallinger to the interview room. John has shot back-to-back rounds of 66, and stands at 8 under. If you'd just start off and give us some general comments about your round today, and then we'll take some questions.
 JOHN MALLINGER: Overall, it was pretty solid. I played exactly how I wanted to. I had a couple of three-putts coming in. But overall I struck the ball well. 
 I think I had 7 birdies and three bogies, maybe. Couple of three-putts. But other than that, it was pretty solid.
 THE MODERATOR: Questions? 

 Q. How would you say this course fits your game? Does it fit it really well? A lot of people say they like the way the golf course looks. It fits their eye, that kind of thing. 
 JOHN MALLINGER: Yeah, it does. It fits my eye well. It's not very long. I don't hit it very long, but I drive it pretty well and have a pretty good putter. So if I can get my irons a little closer, I should have a good chance tomorrow. 

 Q. You've been kind of up-and-down this year. I guess I'm wondering this week in particular what in particular has been working for you better? What do you think has really made the difference in you getting to this point in the tournament? 
 JOHN MALLINGER: I've been playing well. I just finally started executing. I started converting my birdie putts. I've been hitting it well the last month or so. Just haven't been putting that well. So as soon as I started making some putts, I got some momentum. And I'm there, you know. 

 Q. Was that sort of the story of the first round as well. The 70? But you consistently put together two solid back-to-back rounds now? 
 JOHN MALLINGER: Yeah, the 70 was just a little tougher conditions. We got some wind. But I just didn't make the birdie putts like I did the last couple of rounds. 
 Today I played great. I just had a couple of holes where he I just kind of got out of my routine and lost concentration. I had a couple of three-putts. 

 Q. When somebody's put up a round like Frank has to take the lead, what is your mentality going into the final round when somebody does have sort of the cushion that he's built? I know one of them got erased today. 
 JOHN MALLINGER: No, I think I'm in a good spot. I like where I am. I've been in the lead. It's tough. It's not easy to close. So I think I'm in a great spot. I've been in this position a lot now. I'm very comfortable with it. And I'm definitely looking forward to tomorrow. 
 You know, I've never won out here. And you know, that's my ultimate goal. But I've just got to kind of play one shot at a time and go from there. 

 Q. Would any particular holes where you maybe made a save or a pretty good putt that you were especially pleased with? 
 JOHN MALLINGER: Let's see, I made a good putt on 17. I three putted 16 and I came back with a good birdie on 17, which is good, you know, for the confidence for tomorrow. Unfortunately I didn't birdie 18, but that's just the way it is. 
 I know I'm hitting it well and I'm putting well. So I'm pretty confident.
 THE MODERATOR: If you could go over your birdies and then we'll do any follow-ups.
 JOHN MALLINGER: Number 2, I drove it down the middle, and I hit a 9-iron to about three feet. Made that. Then number 5, I hit an 8-iron to about 15 feet and made that one. 
 The next hole I hit driver, 5-wood. And I hit a pitch from about 40 yards to a couple of feet and tapped that in. I got to 11, the par 3. I hit a 5-iron, great shot to about two feet and tapped that in. 
 I got to 12, hit driver, pitching wedge to about 8 feet and made that one. Then the par 5 I hit driver, laid it up. And then hit a sand wedge to about feet and made that one. And on 17, I hit driver 9-iron to 15 feet and made that one. 
 THE MODERATOR: Okay. Thank you, John. Good luck tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT