HP BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 22, 2009
John Mallinger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  DOUG MILNE: John Mallinger, thanks for joining us for a few minutes after your very successful second round of the HP Byron Nelson Championship highlighted by two eagles. You obviously really took advantage of the par-5s today. You've got to be happy about your round and happy about your position heading into the weekend. Just a few comments.   
 JOHN MALLINGER: Yeah, I played solid. A good finish is always a good thing out here. I had four 3s, and any time you do that and get some momentum going into the weekend, it's always good.   
  
  Q. When you look back at a round like this with a couple of eagles and the birdies you had, do you look at the bogeys you had? I think you had consecutive bogeys.   
 JOHN MALLINGER: I did have consecutive bogeys. We got to the short par-4, 11, and we had a little wait, and then we waited a group up, and I missed a little putt. I kind of got out of my routine a little bit.   
 Next hole, I hit a decent iron shot, just went over the green. It was a bad spot. Came back with some good swings coming in, and that's that.   
  
  Q. This year has gone pretty good for you, especially here in the last month. Can you talk about that? What was going right at THE PLAYERS Championship?   
 JOHN MALLINGER: Yeah, I think THE PLAYERS kind of got me off to a good start. I was playing well, just hadn't really got anything going, and THE PLAYERS really kind of gave me a lot of confidence, being able to play with those players, the best players in the world coming down the stretch, and finishing strong is something important to me, and I've kind of taken that in the last couple weeks.  
  
  Q. It looks like obviously you'll be playing as one of the co-leaders going into tomorrow. How do you plan to prepare yourself? Is it a different routine now?  
 JOHN MALLINGER: No, not really. It's just a later tee time.  
  
  Q. Not too much later.   
 JOHN MALLINGER: Oh, we're going in threes. It's not a later tee time. But it's the same deal. It's just golf. You've just got to prepare like you normally do. There's a lot of guys around the leaderboard, so it's going to be a good finish, I think the I don't think anybody is going to run away with it.  
  
  Q. Your first eagle wasn't exactly routine. Talk about that.   
 JOHN MALLINGER: I hit a 5-wood in and I just kind of missed it and it got in the front bunker and I had a perfect lie. I actually didn't see the ball go in because I was so deep, but I heard my buddies yelling, so it was good.   
  
  Q. How important is it to forget a missed shot? It may not even be a bad shot but a missed putt and a missed opportunity because it can carry with you.   
 JOHN MALLINGER: Yeah, it's golf. We do that every single week. We're going to miss shots. You've got to somehow get over it.   
 You know, I was proud of myself for coming back at the end after a couple bogeys and getting right back in the tournament. For a while it was kind of slipping away. Now we're in a perfect spot.   
  
  Q. Would you say one of the best strengths of your game is driving accuracy?  
 JOHN MALLINGER: I'd say yeah, I drive it pretty straight. I don't drive it very long but pretty straight. The putter has been working the last month. That's kind of what's been not working the first couple months of the year. You know, it just shows once you get some putts to fall, you just gain some momentum and a lot of confidence.  
  
  Q. Did you change putters or anything?  
 JOHN MALLINGER: No, I haven't changed a putter in two years. Just kept practicing, and as soon as a couple fall, then it goes from there.   
  
  Q. You said you were on a bad spot in 12, long. What happened?   
 JOHN MALLINGER: I kind of missed my drive, so I had a longer iron in. It landed on the green, just rolled over the back, and that's just somewhere where you can't be. I just wasn't close enough to hold the ball. Other than that, I executed the shot like I like to.  
  
  Q. Did they change a lot of the tees out there at all?  
 JOHN MALLINGER: The tees, no.  
  
  Q. Like on 17?  
 JOHN MALLINGER: You know, a couple were up. I think 3 was up today because they were expecting a little bit of north wind. But other than that, it was pretty similar.   
 DOUG MILNE: Real quick before we let you go, if you wouldn't mind just running through your birdies. You talked about your eagle at 7. Just give us some clubs if you wouldn't mind.   
 JOHN MALLINGER: Starting on 6, I hit a good drive down the middle and then I hit a little 8-iron in there from about 155 yards to about 12 feet and made the putt.   
 Then the eagle was obviously the holed bunker shot.  
 Then the next hole I pulled my drive in the rough, hit an 8-iron again to about 35 feet and made that one. That's kind of where my round kind of got going. Then we kind of had to stop on 11 and 12.   
 And we got to 15, hit a pretty good drive, hit a 6-iron that almost went in. I tapped it in.  
 Then obviously 16 was the eagle with a 3-wood and a 25-footer.  
 And then 18, I hit 3-wood, 9-iron to about 12 feet and made it.   
 DOUG MILNE: Keep it up. Thanks for coming in.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT