FRYS.COM OPEN
October 13, 2012
John Mallinger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Like to welcome John Mallinger back.   You got it to 15‑under today.   Little more difficult out there today. 
If you want to talk about your round, then we'll take a few questions.
JOHN MALLINGER:   Yeah, I just didn't have it all.   I didn't drive it as well as I did yesterday.   I think I hit every fairway yesterday, and then today I just got off to a weird start.
But I hung around there and made some birdies on the back nine that got me back into position.   Still got lead, still got a good spot, and look forward to tomorrow.
THE MODERATOR:   Questions.

Q.   (No microphone.)
JOHN MALLINGER:   I don't blame anybody for bogeys.   They're always my fault, so... 

Q.   The field got a little tighter behind you.   When you look at the pack, a lot of good golfers.   One of them is a guy who is like No. 3 on the all‑time PGA earnings list.   Does that add a little drama into the mix for the guy on the top right now?
JOHN MALLINGER:   Maybe for TV, but not really for me.   I can't do much about what he's going to do.   I'm going to still stay aggressive and try to make as many birdies as possible.   It's going to be a birdie day.   I mean, it's supposed to be nice tomorrow.
If I can go out and shoot 3‑ or 4‑under, see if those guys can catch me. 

Q.   Just talk a little bit more about the back nine and those two birdies that helped you get back to under par today.   You talked a little bit about the back and forth, but just kind of talk about the back nine, how that might help you tomorrow. 
JOHN MALLINGER:   Yeah, I can't even remember my bogeys.   The par‑5 I hit it down the middle.   I hit a great 5‑wood to about 20 feet.   Then I actually got myself in a situation where I couldn't putt it.   I pitched it to about a couple feet and tapped that one in.
And then my other one was‑‑ was there another one?   Oh, on 13 I hit it down the middle or just in the first cut.   Hit a 9‑iron to about three feet again.   Most of my birdies were tap‑ins.   I hit a lot of good putts; nothing just really fell today.
Hopefully that can change tomorrow.   I'll still be in the same position.

Q.   Does playing a little bit better on the back nine after that up and down first nine help you?
JOHN MALLINGER:   Yeah, for sure.   I had some good shots coming in, which I think is important.   You know, just to stay in the position where I am and have a chance for tomorrow, it was kind of the goal going into this week. 
I have a chance to win the golf tournament, which is always a good thing.

Q.   You mentioned a lot of birdies tomorrow you anticipate.   Where do you feel you can go forward on this golf course and where you can't?
JOHN MALLINGER:   Well, the front nine is a little more difficult, I think, so if you can get around there at 2‑, 3‑under, then there are some birdie opportunities on the back depending on where they put the tees on the par‑5s. 
Obviously 17 is a drivable par‑4 and you got the shorter par‑5, 15.   So coming in I think you're going to see some birdies.   I think it's going to be great weather.   It's should be a great finish.   Hopefully I end up in the same spot I am now. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT