THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 10, 2009
John Mallinger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. It's one thing to be in that position, another to walk on the 17th tee. Talk about what that was like?  
 JOHN MALLINGER: It was real comfortable. I had played that hole 1-under and didn't have any problems with it. I stayed patient, went through my routine, and just hit a pitching wedge to the middle of the green.  
  
  Q. What does a performance like this do for your confidence? This is by far the best performance you've had at a big event. Just talk about how you're feeling right now.   
 JOHN MALLINGER: It's big. For some reason I can't get off these third place finishes. I think I have six of them. But when you're playing against a field like this, you're playing against the best players in the world. When you compete at that level and you perform well and you execute coming down, I think that's the big thing.  
  
  Q. When you were playing with Kevin, do you think you guys kind of made a statement this week that you guys are two of the top young Americans?  
 JOHN MALLINGER: I think there's a lot of young Americans, a lot of young guys that are playing well. Kevin has been playing great all year. We kind of fed off each other during the beginning of the round and then he made a great eagle on 16 to get back in it. It was a fun day.   
  
  Q. How does this atmosphere compare to some of the major championships that you've played in?  
 JOHN MALLINGER: Pretty similar. The course setup was pretty similar, just a little less rough. Green speed was definitely up there. The crowds were great, couldn't get any better. You know, it's always fun coming down 16, 17 and 18 and feeling your heart jump up a little bit.  
  
  Q. So your nervous system felt like your nervous system would feel as a major?  
 JOHN MALLINGER: Absolutely.  
  
  Q. What would be your best finish?   
 JOHN MALLINGER: I played in three Opens and nothing special, just a lot of cuts.  
  
  Q. What will be your mindset, I know it's tough to project a year from now, but when you come back here next year? How much different will your confidence be as it may have been coming into this week?   
 JOHN MALLINGER: A lot. I feel comfortable out here. I always have. I haven't had many good finishes, but for some reason none of the holes bothered me. I'm definitely looking forward to coming back next year.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT