THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 7, 2009
John Mallinger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Just a couple highlights of the round, the day and so forth.   
 JOHN MALLINGER: I started off well. I got off to a good start. I birdied No. 2 and I birdied 4, just hit really good shots. I had a game plan going in, going from A to B, and it's one of those golf courses where you just kind of have to plot yourself around.   
 You see someone like Fred Funk that wins, and I kind of look at myself as a player like that, someone who just hits it here, hits it there and tries to make as many putts as I can. That's kind of what I did today.   
 I didn't just miss many shots. I had a three-putt and that was my bogey. Other than that I putted pretty much as good as I could.   
  
  Q. Coming into this week how were you feeling about your game?  
 JOHN MALLINGER: Good. I went home. I had a week off. I didn't want this to be my fourth week in a row, so I went home and I put in three or four days of practice with my golf coach and we worked on some stuff, and I felt great going into the week.  
  
  Q. When you come to a tournament like this, THE PLAYERS Championship, it's y'all's championship; does that kind of change your mindset a little bit as you get into the proverbial fifth major?  
 JOHN MALLINGER: It does. It's a big event, and everyone wants to play well here. It's one of the toughest golf courses we play with the best field, so when you perform at that level you know you're beating the best in the world.   
  
  Q. Now it's 12:25. You've got all afternoon. What will you do the rest of the day?  
 JOHN MALLINGER: I'm going to go grab something to eat, probably hit a couple balls and then just go relax. I know it's a long week. I've got a big golf course in front of me.  
  
  Q. Will you be able to relax?  
 JOHN MALLINGER: Yeah, I'll relax for sure.  
  
  Q. Did you see a change in the scoring conditions with this heat as the day went on, the morning went on?  
 JOHN MALLINGER: It was really nice this morning. It was a little humid, but other than that, no wind. You get off to a decent start, you just get some momentum going, there's some birdies out there. You've just got to have a game plan. There's a couple holes where you've just got to play for par, and the other ones you kind of attack.  
  
  Q. Did you do anything specific to prepare for this course in the weeks leading up?  
 JOHN MALLINGER: I did a lot of chipping and putting the last four or five days. I think it comes down to driving out here and putting, and those are kind of two of my strengths, so it's something I've worked on the last couple days.  
  
  Q. How did you putt it today?  
 JOHN MALLINGER: Good.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT