FRYS.COM OPEN
October 23, 2008
John Mallinger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER: Thank you, John, for joining us for a few minutes here in the media center at the FRYS.com Open. Great start to the week, 7-under 63, and it looked like you putted pretty well out there.   
 JOHN MALLINGER: I did. I've been putting well for a couple weeks. I've been hitting it well, but when I'm hitting it close I'm usually converting, so just trying to keep that going for the rest of the week.   
  
  Q. How much did your success last week carry over into today?  
 JOHN MALLINGER: I think a lot. You're playing desert golf, so it's pretty similar. This week there's overseed in the fairways, but other than that, greens are kind of similar. When you play in the same climate, the balls go the same distance, so you get pretty comfortable.   
  
  Q. You hit 12 fairways, 16 greens, but was the putting still the key?  
 JOHN MALLINGER: Yeah, I think it's going to be like that all week. You know, you're either in the fairway or you're in the desert. Putting is going to be huge out here. It's tough because some of the putts come off the mound, you get some speed, and there are some tricky little breaks out here.   
  
  Q. You lost a shot and then came right back. Can you describe for those of us who weren't out there how you got that last birdie?   
 JOHN MALLINGER: I bogeyed 7, and I kind of hit it to the right. I was still in grass, but I kind of had to lay up. I pitched it and missed about a ten-footer, and then I hit it close on the next hole and missed. Then hit a good one on No. 9 and converted.  
  
  Q. How far do you think it was?  
 JOHN MALLINGER: About ten feet.   
  
  Q. What do these kind of tournaments mean to you at the end of the year, giving people like you a chance to come through?  
 JOHN MALLINGER: I think it's a chance for us to try to get a victory. Someone in my position, I'm still trying to get in the Top 70, but I'm also trying to -- I've still got a chance to get in the Masters. If I play well the rest of the three events, I can turn out pretty good. My ultimate goal is just to stay where I am and keep doing well in the Fall Series.   
  
  Q. Looks like a wide-open battle. Would you describe what you think is going to happen over the next three days? There's a bunch of people within three shots of you.   
 JOHN MALLINGER: Yeah, it's going to be a shootout. You take last week, I think I was 22-under and didn't win the golf tournament. You're going to have to make a lot of birdies these last tournaments. That's just the way it is, the way the course is set up, but I'm okay with that. You get comfortable in that situation. I've been there five or six times now, so hopefully I can take advantage of it.   
 JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT