DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
August 29, 2008
John Mallinger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. A 5-under 66 in the first round. You had birdies on 3, 8, 10, 13 and 17. What is your assessment of how you played and the golf course?   
 JOHN MALLINGER: I played great today. The golf course is in fantastic shape. The greens are probably the best we play all year. You know, I hit it well out there. I left a few out there, but I'm happy with the way I played.  
  
  Q. You set the pace, of course, at 5-under par. Do you think that your round is a reflection of a great round of golf by you, or is the golf course out there for the taking today?  
 JOHN MALLINGER: It's out there. The greens are soft and there's no wind. It's definitely changed from Monday. But it was a good start, and I'm looking forward to the next couple days.  
  
  Q. Give us some insight into a strategy how to play this golf course and how to score a 5-under par 66. What is the strategy there? Is there a particular approach that works here?  
 JOHN MALLINGER: You know, it was a lot different last year. Last year there was a lot more rough. You know, you've got to play the par-5s well, I think.   
  
  Q. Talk a little bit about your position in the FedExCup. You kind of need to play well.   
 JOHN MALLINGER: Yeah, it's kind of the same position I was in last year. I needed to play well last year, and I did, and I got in. The way it's set up, it's one of those deals where you get a good week and you can move up a lot. Someone in my position is pretty fortunate -- you know, I'm fortunate to have played well all year, but not everyone loves the situation, you've just got to play.   
 I think last year I finished 10th here and I moved up 15 spots. You finish 10th here this year and you move up 40 spots. It's a big bonus for guys that are in the system.   
  
  Q. Where do you think the good play came from today?  
 JOHN MALLINGER: I've been playing well the last month or so, I just haven't scored. I've had some stuff in my mind, I kind of cleared it all out and made a couple good putts, and that was it.  
  
  Q. You said you have stuff in your mind. Was it about playing?  
 JOHN MALLINGER: A little bit, yeah, some minor stuff. It's just part of life, and that's the way it is.  
  
  Q. How do you clear stuff out?  
 JOHN MALLINGER: I don't know.   
  
  Q. You don't work with a sports psychologist or anything?  
 JOHN MALLINGER: No, I don't. I had good thoughts this week and just got myself in a good frame of mind.   
  
  Q. What do you think about now? Do you think about winning?  
 JOHN MALLINGER: Well, it's one round. You know, every day I think you play different around here depending on the weather. Today was one of the days you could score, so you've got to take advantage of that day. As far as the next couple, three days, I see the course changing a lot. 1- or 2-under each day will probably be pretty good after this.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT