EDS BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
April 25, 2008
John Mallinger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Great round until 17 and 18.   
 JOHN MALLINGER: Yeah, I played great. I got off to a sluggish start on my second hole, and then I birdied I think it was 8, 9 and 10, and that got me going. I just played real solid all day. I've been playing good the last couple months and I just really haven't scored, and today I finally did.   
  
  Q. The missed putt at 17, did that kind of get you cranky and that led to the big ball at 18?  
 JOHN MALLINGER: No, they're tough holes coming in. I just mis-clubbed on 17. That's basically what happened. I hit a good chip and just kind of pulled my putt.  
 And then 18, it's a tough tee shot. I really haven't got comfortable with it all week. Other than that, I played pretty solid.  
  
  Q. There's a stretch of five par-4s right at the turn. You birdied four of them except the little-bitty short one. You put on a great run. That's a tough stretch.   
 JOHN MALLINGER: Yeah, I played solid. It was one of those deals where it all just kind of came together.  
  
  Q. Do you feel good going into the weekend then? You took an indifferent round yesterday and turned it into something on the leaderboard.   
 JOHN MALLINGER: Yeah, I guess that's what you kind of need. If you get one solid round in the middle 60s or something, it really boosts you. I probably moved up 50, 60 spots today. I'm looking forward to the weekend.   
  
  Q. I know not the finish you wanted, but still, 66 on this golf course is pretty good.   
 JOHN MALLINGER: I played great. It was one of those deals where I got off to a little sluggish start and I bogeyed my second hole. I got on a good run. I birdied 8, 9 and 10 and I think 12, which really got me kick-started. I've been playing really good the last couple months and I just really haven't had any results, so it was nice to see a good round today.  
  
  Q. It's funny, you talk about those results. You've got two Top 10s this year. You played great last year. Do you feel like you're on the verge of kicking that door through and getting a win?  
 JOHN MALLINGER: You know, I'd like to think so. It's all just a process. We've just got to keep doing what we're doing. Sometimes I get a little result-oriented and I get away from just playing golf. This week is mainly just focusing on going back and playing golf.  
  
  Q. You parred 15, right, the long par-4?  
 JOHN MALLINGER: I did.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about how tough that hole is?  
 JOHN MALLINGER: Tough enough that I had to hit 3-wood in. But the stretch of holes coming in is brutal. I think I played them 1-over, which isn't too bad. 17 I kind of misclubbed and then 18 I pulled my drive in the water. Other than that, if you get through those holes around even, it's pretty good.  
  
  Q. Specifically on 15, how do you approach it?  
 JOHN MALLINGER: You've just got to hit two solid shots. It's playing dead into the wind. As long as you don't miss any of your shots, you should be all right.   
  
  Q. Tough finish there, but a great day. Let's just get some comments if we can.   
 JOHN MALLINGER: Yeah, I played really well today. I've been playing great. Today it started to show. I got off to a decent start. I bogeyed my second hole and then got on a really good run. I birdied 8, 9 and 10 and 12, which really kick-started it. Other than that, I've been playing great. It's finally good to see some results.   
  
  Q. What kicked in today? As you said, you've been playing great, but what was different about today?  
 JOHN MALLINGER: Just my iron play. When I hit it close, I made it, and that's the big difference. Last week I played great and I just couldn't make any putts. So finally I saw some of those putts go in.  
  
  Q. Disappointing finish after being hot coming down the last two?  
 JOHN MALLINGER: Well, those are tough holes coming in. You don't expect to bogey them, but that's just the way it is. You've got to move on. I got myself back in the tournament, which I wanted to do starting the day, and I'm looking forward to the weekend.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT