THE HONDA CLASSIC
February 29, 2008
John Mallinger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   STEWART MOORE:  John Mallinger, thanks for spending a few minutes with us here in the interview room at the Honda Classic after a 67 in some pretty blustery conditions.  Playing with Dudley Hart, you guys kind of fed off each other it looks like.  Dudley played well on the front; you played better on the back.  Talk about the round in general.   
 JOHN MALLINGER:  We kind of both fed off each other.  It was great.  One of those things where he made six in a row.  I was like, I need to catch up.   
 It was a fun day, though.  We both played well.  Our whole group played well.  It was nice.  Dudley, he's a really good guy.  When you see someone make that many putts, you kind of feed off him a little bit.   
 Coming in, you know, I played great.  I hit some really great shots on the par 3s, 15 and 7, and birdied 15.  You know, getting through those holes at even par is pretty good.   
 STEWART MOORE:  This is your second year on TOUR, you had a really good rookie year.  Are you to the point where you're acclimated and ready to break through and win and over the nerves of the rookie season?   
 JOHN MALLINGER:  Yeah, it's one of those deals, I don't think if you ever get over it.  It's a good nervous, you get used to it as much as you can and one of those deals where it's like new territory and as soon as you get comfortable, I think that's when you break through.   
  
  Q.  As well as you and Dudley both had it going at times, how surprising coming in to look at the board and see somebody is at 9?   
 JOHN MALLINGER:  I haven't seen the board yet.  Somebody's at 9?   
  
  Q.  Brian Davis.   
 JOHN MALLINGER:  That's excellent playing.  This golf course is set up kind of like a little mini-tour major.  Two par 5s, there's not many scoring holes so for somebody to be 9-under is excellent.   
  
  Q.  Your round yesterday, just from looking at the cards, I have to confess, your round yesterday seemed like up-and-down.   
 JOHN MALLINGER:  A little bit, yeah.   
  
  Q.  Today's seemed much steadier; that's got to be really the key out here.   
 JOHN MALLINGER:  I think so.  I think that you have to drive it really well here, and I think I may be missed one fairway today.   
 The main thing, you've got to be able to play well in the wind, because it's always windy at this golf course.  There's nothing to protect it.  If you get the ball in the fairway, you get some decent approach shots, I think that's when you get some of your scoring.   
  
  Q.  I know you're trying to concentrate on your game, but what's going through your mind when you see one of your playing partners making six in a row for 29 on the front?   
 JOHN MALLINGER:  I think it's great.  You've got to like watching good golf.  I think it actually helps.  You know, you see a lot of putts go in and that's the biggest thing.  Hopefully you can feed off of it.   
  
  Q.  You obviously played a very successful round today; It appeared to me that there was a lot more that you could have gotten.   
 JOHN MALLINGER:  There was.  Today was I have to say one of my better round of the year.  I had a lot of good looks.  I had a balls lip out coming in.  That's the way it is.  If I shoot 3-under on this golf course, I'll take that on the weekend any time.   
  
  Q.  How much do you think the weather affected your game?   
 JOHN MALLINGER:  Well, yesterday it was about 40 degrees when I teed off and it was about 70 today, so it was a little different.  We had a little wind change and I don't mind this wind compared to yesterday.  I thought yesterday the course played harder.  Today was a lot more dry and the ball was rolling out.  So I prefer this wind for the weekend, if that was the case, that would be great.   
  
  Q.  Can you explain to people maybe, put it in simple terms for people, casual and weekend golfers play in wind, they know what that does, but the way this place is laid out in that it's not out and back; this hole goes this way and that hole goes that way --   
 JOHN MALLINGER:  Yeah, it's very difficult.   
  
  Q.  It's like a different direction every hole out there.  How tough is that to adjust, literally, almost every time you're on a tee box have it blowing a different way?   
 JOHN MALLINGER:  It's very tough.  I think that's why this golf course is so hard.  There's not many holes that are just straight downwind.  There's a lot of holes that are crosswind and left-to-right, and you have to be able to hit the ball both ways to play in the wind.   
 Obviously Brian Davis is playing great, you know, 9-under, that's amazing.  He must be doing something right.   
 STEWART MOORE:  John, thanks a lot.  Good luck this weekend.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT