DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 3, 2007
John Mallinger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  You were the official man on the bubble? 
 JOHN MALLINGER:  I was, I was.  It was a good day.  I played real solid.  I knew it was going to be windy out, so just kind of stayed patient, hit a lot of greens, and it was basically my lag putting that got me through.  Chip-in on 15 was really nice.  That kind of got me going.  I made 14 straight pars then made a great shot into 16, made birdie there, and then birdie on 18, which kind of sealed it. 

 Q.  How close on 16? 
 JOHN MALLINGER:  Probably about 12 feet.  I struggled at that hole all week, so it was nice to get a birdie there. 

 Q.  Is it kind of weird, you're playing a golf tournament and have one eye on something totally different? 
 JOHN MALLINGER:  It is, yeah.  I was looking at it a lot all week, and then just kind of went into today and didn't look at it at all.  I said, I know what I need to do, I need to play some solid golf.  It's going to play tough, so if you get in under par today, it should do it. 

 Q.  What would you have doing next week? 
 JOHN MALLINGER:  Lying on the beach (laughter). 

 Q.  Did you jump up clear now? 
 JOHN MALLINGER:  Yeah, I think I went from 71, and I went up to 61. 

 Q.  When you were in the middle of those 14 pars were you thinking it was a good thing? 
 JOHN MALLINGER:  I thought it was.  I was playing very good.  Nothing really dropped.  I hit some really good shots in, and a couple misreads on the putts, but other than that, it was a solid day. 

 Q.  (Inaudible.) 
 JOHN MALLINGER:  A little bit, yeah.  I feel like I've been playing well the second half of the season and haven't been making a lot of cuts.  It's weird, it's either been Top 10 or low at the bottom.  I just wanted this week to get back into contention and play some solid golf. 

 Q.  You could get used to playing these $7 million events, huh? 
 JOHN MALLINGER:  I could get used to it. 

 Q.  Have you ever teed it up there next week? 
 JOHN MALLINGER:  I haven't.  It's going to be nice. 

 Q.  How big was that just to get there? 
 JOHN MALLINGER:  I think it's one of those situations where today kind of felt like I was in the later group for myself.  That's how I looked at it.  I just kind of drew back on some of the times when I was in that situation like in Q-school.  You've just got to stay patient.  Sundays play hard, and when you get some wind, you can't hit those flags.  You're going to have a lot of 30-, 40-footers, and that's basically what I worked on all this morning was my lag putting because I knew it was going to play tough. 

 Q.  I know you said you looked at the standings a lot this week and all that, but when did you start thinking it was a realistic possibility there? 
 JOHN MALLINGER:  I made birdie on 16, and I was like, wow, I'm probably closer now.  And then I birdied 16, and that was, okay, we can do this now.  We've got some birdie holes coming up. 
 I've had a great week in Boston.  The fans are amazing, and I'm looking forward to coming back next week. 

 Q.  How about the whole year? 
 JOHN MALLINGER:  It's great.  I can't ask for anything better. 

 Q.  What have you done the last two years? 
 JOHN MALLINGER:  I started out, I went through Canadian Q-school and played out there.  I played about five months there and I played my way onto the Nationwide Tour two years ago.  I played the last two years Nationwide and Canadian, so I played about 25 months between the two. 

 Q.  Last year you played both? 
 JOHN MALLINGER:  Yeah, I was conditional both years, so I was back and forth to both tours. 

 Q.  Did you think you had a number today you had to shoot? 
 JOHN MALLINGER:  I figured under par would have a good shot.  These things are so crazy, somebody can shoot 75 and jump up and somebody could shoot 65 and jump back.  I just had to do what I was going to do.  I didn't know where anybody was on the day, so it was hard to keep track of what everyone was doing, just got to go. 

 Q.  How do you know that you're in now? 
 JOHN MALLINGER:  They have a projected type of thing. 

 Q.  So you don't know, but -- 
 JOHN MALLINGER:  Right now I went from 71 to 61, so I don't think I'm getting knocked out. 

 Q.  Talk about your round. 
 JOHN MALLINGER:  Pretty solid.  Like I said earlier, it's kind of one of those things, to get in contention you really need to do something, and it feels good. 

 Q.  Take away the FedExCup, say it's just a regular TOUR event.  How would that have changed your approach at all? 
 JOHN MALLINGER:  I don't know, probably would have been a little easier Sunday.  It felt kind of like I was in the leader group or close to the lead, that type of pressure out there. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT