CANADIAN OPEN
July 27, 2007
John Mallinger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  We welcome John Mallinger into the interview room today.  John with a 5 under par 66.  His second consecutive 66.  No bogeys today.  15 of 18 greens in regulation for you, John.  Maybe just talk about what's going well the first couple of days?   
 JOHN MALLINGER:  Definitely the driver.  I went home the last couple of weeks before Milwaukee, and just really worked on some drills with my golf coach, And my driving has been great this week.  I think when you drive it well out here, you get some good looks at the pins.   
  
  Q.  13 of 14 fairways yesterday.  10 of 14 today?   
 JOHN MALLINGER:  Yeah.  It's -- I don't know.  I got a new driver in Milwaukee, I worked with the guys at Taylor Made, and we found something that really clicked.   
  
  Q.  Hey, John, I noticed that you've had a couple of third place finishes during your rookie season here.  Did you learn anything from those that you can take now that you're in contention heading into the weekend at this event?   
 JOHN MALLINGER:  Oh, yeah, definitely.  Weekends are different on the PGA Tour.  You've got to stay patient, you've got to play within yourself.   
 It's going to be a little new me being in the final group.  I was in the second to last group at Pebble, so I'll take some of those experiences and see what happens.   
  
  Q.  When you were here on the Canadian Tour, you didn't miss a cut in ten starts, six top 10s and back-to-back playoff losses.  Was that instrumental in getting you to that next level?  You got your PGA card this year right after playing your second year with us?   
 JOHN MALLINGER:  Yeah, I mean, it was definitely a great tour, as far as developmental tour.  It got me ready for situations like this.  It helped me just, you know, you learn to deal with the final group, you learn to deal with cameras and stuff like that.  So that tour really prepared me for situations like this, so hopefully it will pan out.   
  
  Q.  I guess that final group, though, didn't have Vijay in front of it.  How does his presence, and Jim Furyk right up there, how do you deal with that, I guess?   
 JOHN MALLINGER:  I just got to do what I do best.  Those guys -- those guys do what they do, and I'm going to try to do what I do.  And if my game's better that week, then that's what happens.  If theirs is better that week, then that's the final result.  You've got to take it one shot at a time and see what happens.   
  
  Q.  How much of an advantage do you think you guys had today with the weather, the way it cooperated for the guys that teed off of it a bit later today?   
 JOHN MALLINGER:  Oh, definitely.  Our wave was probably three or four shots easier than the other wave.  It was pretty fortunate for that.  But that's how it happens every week, you know.   
  
  Q.  You talked about sort of there being no intimidation factor in terms of your own game, did that come to you over time, or did you have that from the beginning?   
 JOHN MALLINGER:  I think, I think I've always had a little bit of it.  But, I think the more you get in this situation, the more you start realizing how you deal with stuff.  I think that's the biggest thing, just dealing with your emotions and going on from there.   
  
  Q.  Was it much of a raucous yesterday when the caddy got dismissed, 14, 15?   
 JOHN MALLINGER:  You know, that stuff just happens.  It's just like anything else, you just got to deal with it and get passed it somehow.   
 It actually might have helped me, because I just three-putted the hole before and was kind of just took me out of my little funk, and I ended up birdieing four of the last five holes.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT