RENO-TAHOE OPEN
August 3, 2012
John Mallinger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   John, thank you for joining us in the media center.   Another plus 11 day for you, and plus 22 after two rounds. 
Maybe just some general thoughts on your day.   Looks like just the one bogey and six birdies.
JOHN MALLINGER:   Yeah, actually played solid the last two days.   This is a new format for me.   I've never played it before.   I'm just trying to get used to it to just, you know, getting the score out of my mind and just playing golf.   I think it's actually helped me to have the scoring situation.
So overall I just basically made one bogey today and played solid all day.   You know, finally started to make some putts, which helps. 
THE MODERATOR:   Maybe just take us through the birdies.   Start on No. 2.
JOHN MALLINGER:   No. 2, I actually drove it in the fairway bunker, laid it up, and I had about 100 yard and hit it to about four feet and made that one. 
No. 6, drove it down the middle and then I hit a 9‑iron to about 20 feet and made that one.
8, the other par‑5, I went for it in two.   Just about 10 yards short, pitched it up about five feet and made it.
THE MODERATOR:   And then back‑to‑back 12, 13.
JOHN MALLINGER:   12, I hit a driver I up there and then I hit a nice wedge in there about 10 feet, left to righter, and made that one.
Then the next hole, drove it down the middle, hit a 5‑iron to about eight feet for eagle.   Hit it about five feet by and made that one.
THE MODERATOR:   Then the bogey, was it 14? 
JOHN MALLINGER:   Yeah.   I actually drove it down the middle.   Thought the wind was a little more off to the left.   Hit a pitching wedge and just didn't hit it ‑‑ in the bunker and didn't get it up and down.
THE MODERATOR:   And then 18.
JOHN MALLINGER:   Last one I hit a good drive down the middle.   It was playing into the wind, so I laid it up to a good number.   I hit a sand wedge to about six feet and made that one.
THE MODERATOR:   Okay.   Questions. 

Q.   You said this is your first time playing modified.   Mindset change? 
JOHN MALLINGER:   Not really.   You know, I'm not really‑‑ I'm actually having a tough time keeping up with the points.   Just been trying to just play golf.   I think it's been helping me just focus on what I'm doing and not the result, you know, the hole. 
But I like it.   I think it's a great format.   Yesterday I holed out on my second to the last hole.   Think I was in like 38th place, and went I went to 5th with an eagle.   I think it's a great opportunity.   No one has really ever put of this tournament even coming down the last two or three holes. 
It should be an exciting finish. 

Q.   With this course being different from quite a few other courses on the TOUR being in the mountains and whatnot, this being not your first time playing here, is that making a difference as far as the course maybe clicking for you a little more?
JOHN MALLINGER:   I was in contention I think three years ago.   I had the lead with about nine holes to go.   So I'm pretty comfortable up here.   I love this area.   I've gotten used to the altitude, how far the ball is going.
It just gets a little tricky when you're back in the woods with the trees and the wind, you can't feel it swirl so much.
Just trying to keep the ball low and below the trees and hopefully just keep it right in front of you. 

Q.   You're having a decent year overall.   Is it some of your best golf this season of your career?   What would you compare it to?
JOHN MALLINGER:   I would say ball striking‑wise it's probably my best.   I put a lot of time in my fitness this last year, and you know, I really think it's helped my ball‑striking. 
Mentally I've been a lot stronger.   I just haven't really had the results that I wanted to in the last couple months.   I've had really good ones and then really bad ones.
So I think it's just being a little more consistent with the putter.   I think once that started happening I started seeing results like I did today. 
THE MODERATOR:   Okay, thank you, John. 
JOHN MALLINGER:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT