WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 20, 2011
John Mallinger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. What with a have you found over the last couple of days?  
 JOHN MALLINGER: Putting, for sure. I feel like I've been putting well for the last couple of months. Really frustrating the last couple of months. I kept working hard at it and finally saw some putts to fall and once you get back on it, the confidence.  
  
  Q. Lot of people are talking about getting into the FedEx which you are trying to do as well. There's a lot of other stuff out here for you, get your card for next year, get on the money list as well.  
 JOHN MALLINGER: I'm not really thinking about anything. I'm just trying to just do one shot at a time. I kind of have nothing to do. I'm so far back it doesn't really matter. I'm going to go out there and give it my best.   
  
  Q. That has freed you up. It's working.  
 JOHN MALLINGER: Yeah, I'd say so. A lot of these guys are playing for the 125, trying to get in. I'm so far back, it's a free-for-all.  
  
  Q. Now you're in the heat. Does that change at all?  
 JOHN MALLINGER: Not really. I've done it a couple times. I know what to expect tomorrow, I know what I'm going to feel like on the tee. But, you know, my dad has been in the hospital for the last past week and he's getting better so I'm kind of playing for him.   
 It was obviously a good day. I came back after I a bad swing on 14, I came back with 3 birdies in a row. I finally got the putter working this week.  
 I feel like I've been playing well for two, three months now and finally made some putts fall. It's good.  
  
  Q. What is it about this course? You played well here last year, too.  
 JOHN MALLINGER: Accuracy for me. You hit the ball in the fairway, keep it out of the rough. You're definitely penalized when you get in there. The greens are the same greens I practice on at home. That's a big thing for me. Being comfortable on every tee box.  
  
  Q. You come to 18 with the lead. Did you know that at the time and were you thinking that when --  
JOHN MALLINGER: I had an idea. Honestly, the club slipped out of my hand. I got real lucky, the ball hit back in play and obviously someone is looking after me. It's a good break and I tried to take advantage of it.  
  
  Q. Somebody trying to fight back for your status. How important is it tomorrow for you?  
 JOHN MALLINGER: Obviously it's important. They're all important. I kind of take it one shot at a time. I'm so far back I kind of have nothing to lose. All these guys are fighting to get in The Playoffs. I'm playing one hole at a time and see where I end up.  
  
  Q. Lot of people want to start out good. That birdie on 1, the long putt, how does that help your confidence?  
 JOHN MALLINGER: It was huge. It was like 60, 70 feet. Probably the longest putt I made all year. To get started like that, and I birdied 3, calmed me down and kind of been that way all day.  
  
  Q. Ever been in a lead before going into the final day?  
 JOHN MALLINGER: I have.  
  
  Q. How is that feeling for you?  
 JOHN MALLINGER: It's not going to be easy but I've been there. I know what kind of feeling I'll have tomorrow. I know what I'm going to feel like on the first Tee. I'll draw back on my experience and go from there.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT