HUAJIN SECURITIES WTA ELITE TROPHY ZHUHAI
November 8, 2015
Anabel Medina Garrigues
Arantxa Parra Santonja
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







LIANG‑WANG/Medina Garrigues‑Parra Santonja
  6‑4, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

Q. Ladies, tough loss today after the lead. Talk about your week in Zhuhai. Did you enjoy it? What was difficult today in pulling off the win?
ARANTXA PARRA SANTONJA: Yeah, I think we had a great week. I think we did a good job. We started on Tuesday first match. We didn't start very good, but at the end we keep trying hard and we won that match. I think it was very important. 
Then we had three days off and we had a little bit of sightseeing. We had some time off. I think we needed it. It's the end of the year, so I think we need some time off, and also practice. But it was good for our mental health. 
Then on Friday ‑‑ no, Saturday, yesterday, I think we played very good match. Today we started very good, and then during the match maybe I think we relaxed a little bit after the 4‑Love, and then we were trying to keep like we started the game.
We couldn't. They started to get a little bit more aggressive and playing their game and they didn't let us play so good. We did some mistakes that we maybe shouldn't, and that's why I think we lost the first set.
After they got confidence and we couldn't get the game that we were playing the last days, so I think that was the reason. But we had great week here. It was an amazing experience for us, and I hope we can repeat next year. 

Q. Were you surprised by the atmosphere? It was like Fed Cup environment out there. Did it affect you at all?
ANABEL MEDINA GARRIGUES: Well, we know that we play against Chinese girls so we know that all the crowd going to be with them.
But I think they were very respectful and they were supporting the girls, but we didn't feel that they were not polite against us. 
It was nice to see the crowd almost full. I think the singles was completely full, so it was really good for us to have this atmosphere on the court. 

Q. And how excited are you to finally have an off‑season and to relax a little bit? What's the first thing you're looking forward to doing when you guys get home?
ANABEL MEDINA GARRIGUES: We are very happy to end the season. The first thing I think is going to sleep in my bed. This year was not too easy and often. 
I think when you go back home you want to stay with the family, enjoy the family, and see the friends. Go dinner, like normal things that normally we cannot do because we are on the tour. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT