MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 10, 2013
Anabel Medina Garrigues
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. WILLIAMS/A. Medina Garrigues
  6‑3, 0‑6, 7‑5
  (Through translation.) 

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Good afternoon.   What can I tell you?   Congratulations for the great match and for being so close to beating Serena, or sorry because you let it go in the end?
ANABEL MEDINA GARRIGUES:   Both things, no?   Well, thanks.   It was a pity.   It was a match that I enjoyed a lot.   I managed to get the No. 1 of the world to zero in the second set.   I never achieved that.   First time I achieved that.   Very happy for having achieved that.
It's a pity because I was to points away from achieving it.   5‑4 I was serving with 15‑30 and she did an ace, and, well, I couldn't do anything. 
It's a pity, but you have to be conscious that she's the No. 1 in the world because of those things.   In those moments she has really good performance, and unless you were perfect, well, those things happen.

Q.   Congratulations for your tournament here in Madrid.   I wanted to ask you 6‑Love, what do you feel when you do a 6‑Love to the No. 1 of the world?
ANABEL MEDINA GARRIGUES:   Well, as the time was going on I was thinking, It's coming; it might come.   Then I thought about it and I said, How many sets has Serena lost 6‑Love?   I think she hasn't lost many.
I don't know.   But it's true she just let it go a little bit.   Maybe she let it go in some moments, but you have to win also.   There it stays for history. 

Q.   Looking forward from the rest of the tournament, in the race you are going from 133 to 50‑something. 
ANABEL MEDINA GARRIGUES:   Oh, well, look.   That's really good.

Q.   How do you face the rest of the season?   Not only about the race, but also your thoughts after making it to the quarterfinals here.   How do you face all that?
ANABEL MEDINA GARRIGUES:   Well, you know, I am at an age where I don't look at those things.   I knew I was doing very well in the race even though I haven't had very good results.
We hoped with my coach to play tournaments over there, and all of the matches that I've lost they have always been with rivals of very high quality and always only because of one set and something in the second.
So I was playing quite well.   We knew it was a matter of being more calm out there on the court, of enjoying the tennis, and from there on the results were going to come.
Sometime it should come, because I was feeling that I was playing pretty well.   So going from 130‑something to 53, well, it's really good news. 
I really feel like I want to keep on playing tournaments and I want it still be here on the tour.   So they're still not kicking me off the circuit. 

Q.   I wanted to ask that moment, 15‑30, a big serve from her.   Do you think from that moment on she just put the level up, or looking back you think you were lacking something in those key points?
ANABEL MEDINA GARRIGUES:   Well, I don't really remember the points that you're talking about.   I think there was a deuce in a really good point that I threw a forehand out and it went long.
What really happened is in 5‑4 I didn't make a single first serve.   I had been serving really good during the whole match in general.   Perhaps there was some games I haven't been playing with my first serves very well.   In the game of 5‑All, I played all the games with my second serve. 
It's clear that Serena returns the ball really good.   It's true that my second serve has been disturbing her a little bit.   The ball here in Madrid bounces very high.
Perhaps in those moments you have a little bit more pressure knowing if you play with a second serve she is going to be aggressive and put more pressure on you.
I lost that game, and in the last game, well, it's been impossible.   I was thinking, There is no way I can finish the match like that. 
But she's the No. 1 in the world and she didn't feel the pressure.   She was able to close the match.

Q.   You were saying that you have many matches with a set up.   Maybe having today the No. 1 in the world and starting close, were you able to play loose?   Were you thinking the match is really complicated, I can do whatever I can?   Does that help you to play?
ANABEL MEDINA GARRIGUES:   I was a little bit doubtful at the beginning of the match because I'm not used to these kind of sceneries.   They are really big courts and the opponent is really tough.
They're players that if they start playing good, they start playing better and better.   You also have the pressure to know that if I don't manage to beat her some points, you won't be able to keep up with her.
If she's loose out there in the court, well, on paper she's much better than me.   You start thinking you cannot win the match.   You start to think it is going to be a catastrophe.
The match went pretty well until 3‑3 when they changed the balls.   Afterwards in the 5‑All I was serving with new balls, which I hated.   It's an error. 
For her the ball runs faster; you have less control.   Well, when you are playing out there with her face to face, there is a little bit more tension than when you're playing out in the club or Court No. 15 where nobody is looking at you, and not in a court like this that everyone is looking at you.
Being nervous, normally you've got some butterflies.   Today I had butterflies in my stomach, but in the end I enjoyed it.   As soon as I enjoy, you start to feel better and you start to loosen yourself even more. 
Tita Torro has been doing really well.   We've seen here in Madrid Carla beat Stosur, Garbine, Lourdes, too. 

Q.   How do you evaluate this actual moment in Spanish women's tennis?   Let's say under the shadow of the men's tennis, how did you evaluate it?
ANABEL MEDINA GARRIGUES:   Well, I see a very healthy women's tennis.   If we are looking for global stars, at this moment Spanish tennis doesn't have any global stars.
We are just three or four veterans that are there.   Well, not many.   Lourdes and I. 
And then Silvia and Carla are a little bit younger.   Tita, Lara, and Garbine are playing pretty well.
Maybe the guys are talking a little bit more that there is nobody coming behind.   In the girls it's obvious that there are three girls up there within the best of the world.   They had the results.   Tita has beaten a girl that has won a Grand Slam.   Garbine has done really good results in Miami.
Lara has won a tournament already this year.   So for young girls that are doing really well and want to play tennis, they just have to look at them as examples.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT