PILOT PEN TENNIS
August 26, 2005
Anabel Medina Garrigues
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Did you start to cramp in the third set? 
 
 ANABEL MEDINA GARRIGUES: No cramps, but I feel it very, very tight because when we finished the second set we played like two hours and Amelie is one player like she runs a lot and I need like 20 balls for one point. When I lose the second set I feel it a little tight.  
 
Q. What happened in the game, after second set, you broke her serve after you went through that like 9 deuce game, what happened you broke her and then she broke you. Did you lose focus at all in that game or what happened? 
 
 ANABEL MEDINA GARRIGUES: I don't remember this moment. (Laughs). No, seriously, I don't remember. I remember we played like 10 deuce, but later I don't know what happened.  
 
Q. What did you think of that game that you played like 10 deuces, you held serve in that game. Did you feel like that was going to give you an edge? Did you feel like you had the momentum? 
 
 ANABEL MEDINA GARRIGUES: Well, I feel it more when I was 4-3 and serve ball 5-3, this game was very hard and I have more confidence there because we have like 10 deuce and at the end I win the game, but with Amelie you have to know, you have to play all the points, all the games, all the sets and everything. You have matchpoint and you know with her you can lose because she stay all the time on court. She never lose the concentration and it's one player, she ran a lot and it's difficult if you play bad winner to her.  
 
Q. Do you feel like you lost the match or she won the match? 
 
 ANABEL MEDINA GARRIGUES: I feel I played against the No. 3 in the world and I feel good and I have my moments, but I think I played against the No. 3 in the world and if you don't win these moments, the match can change everything. Normally, when you play against a Top-10, when you lose this moment, it's like 6-4, 6-1. But I lose this moment and I stay in the match, but this moment lose, finish.  
 (Laughs).  
 
Q. Did you want to keep the ball low against her to make her reach for shots? 
 
 ANABEL MEDINA GARRIGUES: Yes, because she plays, I think she plays like me, but more than me and she run more and she have more topspin and if I play against her like her game, I don't have chance because she's better than me, her physique is better than me and I have to play more hard and more strong and put pressure against her.  
 
Q. Do you think she's one of the most strong -- one of the strongest players on Tour, most physically fit player? 
 
 ANABEL MEDINA GARRIGUES: For me, yes. I think the Top-10 more difficult than one, but not for because the other is very good, but maybe if you play against, I don't know, Davenport or Dementieva they play very hard and if they have bad day, you can won to her today, but Mauresmo is always run and she have very backhand, one backhand very good, she have good and the ball is unbelievable and you have to know if you play against her -- me, I need three hours for win her because I don't play like Dementieva or Davenport I play more her than me.  
 
Q. It sounds like you almost go into the match not expecting to win the way you are saying it because she does what you do except better, isn't that a tough way to go into a match having that mentality? 
 
 ANABEL MEDINA GARRIGUES: I feel that I can won the match, but it's difficult, no, because I don't have a lot of experience with the top players and when you look at one set down 4-3, on ball for 5-3, you start to think, oh, I can win this match, I can win the No. 3, and sometimes it is bad thinking this. But it's impossible.  
 
Q. One set and 5-3 did you think that you had won the match? 
 
 ANABEL MEDINA GARRIGUES: No, I have one set 4-3 and ball for 5-3.  
 
Q. Did you think at that point you had won the match or not? 
 
 ANABEL MEDINA GARRIGUES: Yeah, in this moment, yes.  
 
Q. You looked too far ahead? 
 
 ANABEL MEDINA GARRIGUES: No, no, no, no. I think I can won the match, but no, I going to won the match. But I think if you don't think this, it is impossible to won. Because if you won one set and say okay, I am good, I won one set to the No. 3, I am okay now, no, no. (Laughs).  
 
Q. What does this tournament do for your confidence going forward beating Dementieva and playing such a good match here today? 
 
 ANABEL MEDINA GARRIGUES: I feel very good. I had one injury in my knee and it was difficult for me and now come here and won the No. 6 in the world, three sets with Mauresmo gives me confidence for play the next tournaments and for look at to the Top-20. I think all the players need this confidence like won the No. 20, or 20 to 1 and when you do this step, you feel it better and now you think, okay, I can won to the top players.  
 
Q. Do you think you are playing your best tennis right now? 
 
 ANABEL MEDINA GARRIGUES: Yeah.  
 
Q. What part of your game has matured the most over the past few years? 
 
 ANABEL MEDINA GARRIGUES: I am more aggressive now with the ball because before I running a lot, defend a lot of balls, but I need more go to the net or play more hard and I think now I feel it like this. I improve my serve. I need more, but I improve my physique, not like today, but I think I improve a lot.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT