TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 30, 2018
Ja-Deion High
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions for Ja'Deion.   
 Q.  What were the biggest takeaways for you from Alan's performance on Saturday?  
JA'DEION HIGH: I guess we expected him to play at least there would be one game he came out that way.  He's still young.  He had a lot to learn from.  I think he took a lot of stuff from it, gained some experience from what he faced.   
 Q.  Anything in particular you told him?  
JA'DEION HIGH: I just told him to move on from it.  I told him it was going to happen eventually.  As a freshman, somebody is going to come out and get you at one point.   
 Q.  What have you seen differently from Oklahoma's secondary over the last couple of weeks since they switched to Ruffin, if anything?  
JA'DEION HIGH: I think they simplified more things in their secondary.  They don't do as much crazy stuff as they were in the beginning of the season with the other DC.  I guess they're more base now, you could say.   
 Q.  Kliff puts it on himself, says he doesn't put you in position to be successful.  What does he mean by that?  
JA'DEION HIGH: I mean, as a player, it's our job to go out there and execute the plays, no matter what he says.  We know what we're supposed to do, what's our responsibility.  They gave us the plan during the week to go out and execute.  When we fail to do that, you see what happens, so...   
 Q.  He says that he needs to be able to give you guys plays that you can actually execute.  Do you feel with coach being a coach, his football IQ being up there, when you get on the field, it is harder to execute some of the plays he comes up with for that week?  
JA'DEION HIGH: I'd say probably the first time we ever rep them, they can be complex at times, when you get down the time and everything.  When we get out all the wrinkles, they become easy to execute.   
When you get different defensive looks, you never know what can happen, so...   
 Q.  Time of possession is big for you, keeping them off the field.  As part of the offense, how do you see that as a weapon for you?  
JA'DEION HIGH: We keep them off the field, they ain't scoring points, we're scoring more points.  It's easier to control what they're doing, even though we're not on the field when they are, so...   
 Q.  Talk about how often you rep stuff, getting the game plan, how many times last week did you rep the play, the flea flicker?  
JA'DEION HIGH: Couldn't give you an exact number.  I know we did it in every walk-through we did and in practice maybe twice.  We repped it a lot during walk-throughs.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
JA'DEION HIGH: Yeah.  We knew it was going to be called eventually.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
JA'DEION HIGH: No.  It's like a game week thing.  They don't really rep them back whenever we're prepping in fall camp.  It's just what happens that week.   
 Q.  Defensively is there something they do that they don't get enough credit for?  
JA'DEION HIGH: I didn't hear.   
 Q.  Defensively, is there something Oklahoma's defense does they don't get enough credit for?  Everyone talks about their offense.  
JA'DEION HIGH: I mean, thus far, I think they've done a good job to get where they are.  I haven't seen much film on what they've been doing.  I see what they run in certain coverages and formations.  I couldn't tell you from the beginning of the season.   
They're doing pretty well in the Big 12 and nation.  You can't really argue what they're doing on that side of the ball.   
 Q.  Is this Tech offense is built for the sustained drives, or usually to break the big one?  
JA'DEION HIGH: I think we're built for both.  We can sustain drives.  People doubted what we could do early in the season.  We came out and showed them what we could do.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT