PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 16, 2009
Grant Sturgeon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q. Not too shabby. 
 GRANT STURGEON: No, it was just a dream come true the whole week. I had a lot of great experiences. You know, just got to play with a lot of great players. I learned a lot this week, and hopefully I'll be able to take that home and learn from it. 

 Q. Playing in the PGA, tougher or easier than you thought it would be?
 GRANT STURGEON: You know, I don't even know how to answer that because you know, the atmosphere was not as tough as I thought it would be. But the golf course was every bit as hard as I thought it would be. So you know, just a lot of fun to go out there and test myself. 

 Q. How wide is the gap between club pros and touring pros?
 GRANT STURGEON: It's fairly wide. You know, in a lot of avenues, because all of these guys are graded, every facet of their game. As club pros, most of us are good at two or three facets of our game. You know, it's tough to for four days compete when you're not on top of your game in every facet. 

 Q. Would you say fun disappointing or fun experience to the week for you?
 GRANT STURGEON: This is the best week of golf I've ever had. The weekend was incredibly disappointing to finish with the two rounds that I did. But just to put myself in position to have some success on the weekend was awesome. 

 Q. Knowing what you know about your members back home, what do you think the question is you're going to get the most when you get back? 
 GRANT STURGEON: Did I talk to Tiger maybe, or --

 Q. Did you? 
 GRANT STURGEON: No, I didn't. Maybe that or they all know that I got to play with Davis Love for nine holes on Wednesday. I'll probably get a few questions about that.

 Q. Are you a better pro than when you arrived, a better teaching pro than when you arrived?
 GRANT STURGEON: You know, there's a few things I've learned. I've got to go try them out on myself first before I try to scare somebody else with them. But yeah, I mean, I was able to learn a lot. Time will tell if I'm able to improve because of it. 

 Q. And a lot of people are going to be watching the rest of the round today and they are going to be inspired to go out and play, what is the best tip you can give to those people when you head out?
 GRANT STURGEON: Figure out some how, some way, to hit it in play. 

 Q. Oakmont's greens are notorious for being super fast, was it like putting on the fringe here?
 GRANT STURGEON: It wasn't like putting on fringe but they were in no way comparable to Oakmont's. Oakmont's greens are a good three to five feet faster than these. You can get fast putts out here, but nothing that will scare you. 

 Q. You talked early on about preparation, Oakmont was so great, but also equipment-wise, did you do anything to try to match your sticks to the course here this week? It looked like you had a number of hybrids in the bag. Is that standard issue or something you did just for this week?
 GRANT STURGEON: Well, I added one more hybrid for this week just because there are going to be so many long shots into par 4s, and you know, I don't hit the ball that far or that high, so I need a little extra help there. So I hit a four hybrid a lot this week. That was really good for me. That was pretty much the only change I made. 

 Q. There was one part of today's round, that 16th hole, and that sort of sagged when you had a chance to probably hold it together, the round. Can you explain what happened there?
 GRANT STURGEON: I just hit another bad chip followed by another bad chip. Unfortunately I do that a lot. It's nothing really new. I just have to figure out how to chip the ball better. 

 Q. And at Oakmont, you had faced the same kind of rough, would you?
 GRANT STURGEON: No. 

 Q. You would not?
 GRANT STURGEON: No, sir.

 Q. Totally different?
 GRANT STURGEON: For the U.S. Open, I'm sure it would be as bad or worse, but on a day-to-day preparation of the course, we are at about two and a quarter to 2 1/2 inches, so nowhere near this severe. Here, it's more than two and a quarter.

 Q. That's where the trouble was for you? 
 GRANT STURGEON: Maybe a little bit. Just didn't pitch it very well. 

 Q. That was probably the whole structure of the problems the last couple of days? 
 GRANT STURGEON: Yeah, I putted really poorly yesterday. I putted good today. My pitching and chipping of the golf ball let me down this weekend. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT