OLYMPIC GAMES RIO 2016: GOLF
August 20, 2016
Miriam Nagl
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How much did you enjoy this week, playing for Brazil in the Olympic Games? 
MIRIAM NAGL: It's been fantastic. The first few days were obviously tough for me, but today I had a great round and I just kept reminding myself, hey, you're in the Olympic Games. Just kept on smiling the whole time that we can live this and play here, and obviously playing in the country I was born in, is very special. I just feel very fortunate and very happy that my family was here to enjoy all of this with me. Very thankful.

Q. So what do you think this will do to help raise the popularity of golf and women's golf in this country?
MIRIAM NAGL: Well, I think it's obviously making a huge difference that the Brazilians are coming out and supporting as much as they did this week and last week. I hope it's going to make a difference. I think it's a big step to make it big in Brazil. I think the Federation has to do some work with this after, but how good that it was exposed on TV and that they can go on from here, and really good for this area of Rio to have a course like this. The course is spectacular. Very different from the other could o two courses that they have and I hope it stays public for them. 

Q. Are you happy with your own performance? 
MIRIAM NAGL: I am very happy today but I obviously wasn't happy the first two rounds. Might have been a bit too much pressure that I put on myself. I worked really hard the days before. The last two days, I took it a little bit easier after the round. Didn't do as much, so I think might have just worked a little bit too hard the few days leading up. 
But overall, yeah, I'm very pleased, because golf can be that way. You know, didn't get a few bounces on the first day, and just didn't go, but how good is it today to finish with 1‑under par, you know. 

Q. And what are the greatest memories that you will take away from here?
MIRIAM NAGL: The greatest memories, well, you know, the event and being here with my family, being in the Olympic Village, experiencing the gym with all the other athletes. I think that was probably a really special moment when you're there in the gym and you see all these other athletes doing their thing. Probably seeing the Olympic rings on the tee boxes, it's just fantastic that we can play in the Olympic Games. I hope everybody in four years will support it, not just us women. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT