OLYMPIC GAMES RIO 2016: GOLF
August 17, 2016
Miriam Nagl
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Describe the feeling of hitting that first opening tee shot?  
MIRIAM NAGL: Nerve‑wracking to be honest. I was very nervous, but what an honour that I could be hitting this shot. It means so much to me. Being in my home country and golf being back in the Olympic Games, and I have a little daughter now; it's just very special to me that I could be hitting the shot.   
   
 Q. Were you shaking when you put the ball on the tee?   
MIRIAM NAGL: No, it wasn't. But you just feel internally, it's important. So you are just trying to do your best with your concentration as you can.  
   
 Q. Did you talk to Adilson after he hit the first shot last week what to expect?  
MIRIAM NAGL: I talked to him but we didn't particularly talk about that. He just said how great it was.   
   
 Q. How was your first drive?   
MIRIAM NAGL: It was a little bit right, but it was a good drive, a little bit to the right.   
   
 Q. Most pressure you've ever been under?   
MIRIAM NAGL: No, I wouldn't say so. Sometimes there are moments you feel a lot of pressure when you go into a playoff. But very similar to a playoff situation where you just want to not hit an awful shot. Yeah, very similar to a playoff.  
   
 Q. How did the rest of the day go?   
MIRIAM NAGL: The front nine went actually good I thought, and on the back nine, I did not play well. So the day was not very good. I had three bad holes, and shot 8‑over, so it obviously wasn't a good round for me. So disappointing day but keep on going tomorrow.  
   
 Q. How do you like the course?   
MIRIAM NAGL: I think it's great. You get holes where you can really make birdies. You're hitting sand wedges in and you have some long par 4s. I think it's setting up very good for this competition with 16 being drivable and 17 being a short par 3. Great golf course, yeah.   
   
 Q. Do you have any feel for whether golf will ever take off in Brazil?   
MIRIAM NAGL: I think after last week, I think it's going to really hopefully start making a difference. I hope this course will stay public and some of the Juniors who got to watch everything on TV last week, they say, hey, I want to come out and hit some shots. But it's obviously a very long shot and the Federation will have to do a lot of work, as well. But how great that the event turned out the way it did last week.  
   
 Q. What has to happen for a lot of people be able to enjoy the golf course? Is it a matter of keeping the rates down? It's the only public one in Rio, right?   
MIRIAM NAGL: Obviously not really sure how it all works, if it stays private or if it becomes public‑‑  
   
 Q. Access to it.   
MIRIAM NAGL: What needs to happen, well, the Federation will have to work together with these golf courses and put up programmes where they bring out the juniors. It would be so great if they would hit some shots, and then you go from there. You need programmes like the U.S. has and Europe has, countries where they really support the talent. So I think it's a start. So hopefully it keeps going.   
   
 Q. You mentioned what a success last week was. Do the women competitors feel any pressure to keep that excitement going?   
MIRIAM NAGL: No, I wouldn't say so. I didn't think of that at all today. I think, you know, when we are obviously out there, we are just trying to play the best we can and hopefully that will create great golf in the end on the last day, and I hope as many people will then come out to support the leaders.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT