MISSOURI VALLEY CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 3, 2012
Gregg Marshall
Toure' Murry
Joe Ragland
Garrett Stutz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   Coach Marshall, an opening statement? 
COACH MARSHALL:   (No microphone).

Q.   Guys, for any one of you, I know it hurts right now, but is the sting a bit lessened knowing that you will have more games in the NCAA Tournament? 
STUDENT‑ATHLETE:   Not at all.   Our goal was to come here and win the tournament, we didn't do it, so we're disappointed.   We're not looking forward to the NCAA Tournament while we have a game today.   That's not how you prepare.   We didn't win the game, so that's it.

Q.   I think six assists for the entire game, so there was virtually no offensive flow.   What was Illinois State doing to knock you guys out of your offensive rhythm? 
JOE RAGLAND:   They did a very good job making us on the ball screen hedge them really well.   At times we got stagnant and started running our motion and that hurt us.

Q.   What do you guys feel was the situation in the second half that didn't get you to where you wanted to be? 
GARRETT STUTZ:   They came out, they were making shots.   We continued to stop the runs early on in the half and we kept trying to play through the adversity we were facing and just didn't get it done. 
TOURE' MURRY:   They made shots, we didn't.   They picked us apart and did whatever they wanted to, it seemed like. 
JOE RAGLAND:   We couldn't stop their ball screen offense, they really hurt us, and they got to the free‑throw line.   They did a good job of making the three‑point shots.

Q.   All three games they played against you guys, they had you in the 60s.   Was it some sort of a match‑up that was tough for you?   Because most of the games are in the 70s, 80s, even 90s at some points. 
JOE RAGLAND:   I'm not sure.   You know, we don't really look at what the score is because we won both regular season games and what they held us to because we won the game.   Athlete-wise, they're similar to us.   Carmichael does a real good job deflecting on contesting shots at the rim that we normally make, and we didn't make them today.   You know, they played a hell of a game. 

Q.   Garrett, things are really physical down in the post.   Were the previous games against them that chippy?   What was going on between and you Wilkins during the game? 
GARRETT STUTZ:   I don't know how you can warn a guy 20‑plus time that's game and not call a foul on them.   I don't understand that to me.   Eventually you have to draw a line and say enough is enough.   I've warned you guys four or five times and call something. 
It's disappointing as a senior to go out like this in a game like that. 

Q.   How do you put this behind you so there is no carryover effect? 
TOURE' MURRY:   Feel the pain, and we'll get through this.   This loss will probably help us know what to do the next game.   Come out with intensity, learn from our mistakes from this game. 
JOE RAGLAND:   Can't let it carry over.   We want to be successful because we have more games, but we can't let this affect us in our next game or practice or anything else.   We've just got to move forward. 

Q.   Toure', could you kind of run us through after Brown makes the second free throw, you get the ball.   Kind of run us through what was going through your mind as you came off the court there? 
TOURE' MURRY:   I got the ball and Garrett Stutz was supposed to set a high ball screen.   And I come off and I see Jackie Carmichael kind of back, so I pulled up for a jumper.

Q.   How do they change over the last ten days?   It seemed they were playing a lot better than maybe they did the last time you met them. 
GARRETT STUTZ:   They made shots.   They found something that was working and they kept going to it.   We changed because we stopped running or we stopped getting out in transition.   I don't know.   Our effort came up short this time. 

Q.   What are some of the things you think you need to work on as you go on to the next level?   You'll be playing in the tournament, what are some of the things you need to improve on as you go to that next level? 
JOE RAGLAND:   I feel we need to get better on ball screen defense.   They picked us apart.   At times, the big man just seemed like we were hedging too long or not hedging out enough.   We've just got to get better at that. 
TOURE' MURRY:   You can work on every aspect of your game defensively and individually as a team.   You've got to just work, keep working and find out.   Watch the film, find out what we did wrong and work on it. 

Q.   Obviously it's tough to go through a loss any time.   But this isn't going to be the last game of the season for you guys.   You've played well all season.   What are your thoughts as players going forward, focused on the next step, if I can say, at the NCAA Tournament? 
JOE RAGLAND:   I'm not too sure.   I mean, it's hard to answer that question when you just lost a game 5 minutes ago that determines our Missouri Valley season as far as tournament champions.   I'm not sure I can really answer that right now. 
GARRETT STUTZ:   Learn from this loss.   Every other loss this year we've learned from and recovered well.   Going forward we have to learn from this and correct your mistakes and come out ready to play?

Q.   Had you won the tournament, you may have entered the NCAA Tournament as a 4 or 5 seed.   What do you think this will do to your NCAA seeding now? 
COACH MARSHALL:   It won't be as good.   Depends on what happens in the coming weeks and days with the other tournaments.

Q.   Coach, in halftime you had an 8‑point lead and a chance to put them away. 
COACH MARSHALL:   You can't put them away in the first half.   We didn't play well enough in the second half with an 8‑point lead.   We didn't play well in the first half.   We had an 8‑point lead, had four guys in foul trouble, and survived it.   Jake White gave us a big lift.   Then just didn't play well enough in the second half to hold that lead.

Q.   Defensively did they do anything particular that was really effective today? 
COACH MARSHALL:   I think they did a good job on our ball screen.   But when Garrett's out of the game as much as he is, our offense is obviously different.   He's been a mainstay for us.   Carmichael did a good job on Carl.   But just it's uncharacteristic of Garrett to get a technical foul.   I think it's the first of his career.   Didn't seem like they wanted to see him play too much.

Q.   You mentioned Jake White and the boost he gave you in the first half.   Was there consideration of playing him more than he played in the second half? 
COACH MARSHALL:   We tried to manage our bench as best we could.   You can second guess that.   Ben didn't play a lot of minutes, but I went with the guys.   Again, we played most of the year.   And Jake's a fine player.   Really like Jake.   Glad he's in our program.   But he hasn't been as effective all of the year, other than today, he was very effective in his minutes.

Q.   Toure' mentioned guarding the ball screen.   Is that where Tyler Brown got loose for some of his shots?   How did that happen? 
COACH MARSHALL:   He got loose on a ball screen or two.   He got loose on a down screen.   I don't recall every time he got loose.   But one time we went under a ball screen, and he rose up and shot it.   I remember that three.

Q.   Yesterday and today there was a lull to open the second half.   What do you need to do to fix that as you move forward? 
COACH MARSHALL:   I don't think we're going to do too much fixing.   27‑5.   We're going to play in the NCAA Tournament.   Looking forward to that, a neutral floor.   Feel we have just as good a shot if not better than we did today.

Q.   Can you just address the disappointment again here in St. Louis?   Is it a big deal?   Is it overblown?   Is it strange to you that this team of all teams‑‑
COACH MARSHALL:   I saw some strange things today.   That's your word, and I'll go with that.   It's pretty tough to win when you see some strange things like I saw today. 
I'm looking forward to going and playing on a neutral court.   I like my chances.

Q.   Could you give your impressions of the progress that you've seen over the year in ISU from the first time you played them until now? 
COACH MARSHALL:   First time we played them they had a couple of shots to tie.   In the first minute.   I've always thought they were very talented and athletic.   Tim does a very nice job.   So they certainly have our respect, and you can see why.   They're a good basketball team.   We went to their place about a week ago and won by 11 to win the regular season outright, which is a nice accomplishment.   They're a good team. 
With everything that happened today, they certainly deserve that win, and good luck to them.

Q.   Coach, you've had a couple of eight‑game winning streaks and now nine game winning streak before this loss.   What has your team done?   You've been all business all season long.   What have you done to be able to forget those losses and start up again? 
COACH MARSHALL:   For the most part, they're a pretty mature team.   They're committed to excellence.   They weren't excellent today and there were many factors to that.   But I've got to get them up.   I've got to coach them better.   We've certainly got to play better and hopefully get a break or two.

Q.   Considering the conference standing and kind of going back to one of the first questions that you answered about how this affects maybe your seeding in the big tournament, last year our conference champion made it to the championship game in this tournament and didn't get an invite at all.   Are you worried about that happening or really taking a further fall down in the seedings than maybe you even deserve to have because of this loss? 
COACH MARSHALL:   Are you worried?   I'm not worried.   Are you worried?   You shouldn't be.   Sleep well tonight.

Q.   Was the last play pretty much the play and shot you wanted? 
COACH MARSHALL:   Well, with six seconds, we could have gotten it up and run.   The play we ended up running with .9 seconds or .1, whatever they changed it to, that would have been our sideline play.   But I thought we got two looks.   Toure' Murry got a 17 pull‑up right there on line, and Garrett got a 10‑foot pull‑up. 
So we got two shots in the air to win the game and we don't make it.   But that's not what cost us the game.   We didn't play well enough to overcome everything we needed to overcome today.

Q.   Because of so many factors and the way the ball is just not bouncing your way and all the types of things that just didn't seem to go in your favor, how exactly can you learn from a loss, as Garrett was saying? 
COACH MARSHALL:   How can you learn from a loss?   Well, you let it sit in the pit of your stomach until it makes you violently ill.   Then you expel that feeling and then you go back to work.   That's all you can do.   We're not playing tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT