NHL DRAFT
June 30, 2013
Max Domi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How did it feel to hear your name called?  
MAX DOMI:   Unbelievable.   It's a dream come true.   You can't really put it into words.   It's unbelievable and a great feeling and I can't wait to be part of the organization in Phoenix, so it should be a lot of fun.  
   
 Q.   They made the Playoffs a number of years ago.   Dave Tippett is obviously a great coach.   Talk about playing for a group like that that has that solid coaching?  
MAX DOMI:   Absolutely, it's the NHL and he's one of the best coaches in the world, so excited to learn a lot from him and to be a part of an unbelievable organization, and they've got a lot of unbelievable players there, and it should be fun.  
   
 Q.   The Memorial Cup, how important was that do you think in the eyes of others watching you and rating you and seeing your potential in the NHL?  
MAX DOMI:   Yeah, it was a lot of fun.   Obviously getting to go to two Memorial Cups is a pretty special experience and definitely blessed to have that.   Unfortunately came up a little short two years in a row, but that's hockey, and hopefully get another chance next year to do it.  
   
 Q.   Talk about what playing in London has meant to you.   Pretty good training ground for the National Hockey League.   
MAX DOMI:   Yeah, exactly.   They're the best really in the sport in terms of junior hockey.   You can't ask for a better organization.   They're first class all the way, and they develop players to play in the National Hockey League.   They make you a better person, as well, so I definitely thank them, as well.  
   
 Q.   What do you have to work on to get to the National Hockey League?  
MAX DOMI:   Everyone wants to play right away, and it's up to whatever team you're a part of to make that decision.   I'm going to work as hard as I possibly can this summer and do whatever I can to make that hockey team.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible).   
MAX DOMI:   He was pretty pumped.   Yeah, he's an emotional guy obviously, and he's really happy.   He had a long, successful career in the NHL, and he wants nothing less for me.   It's definitely a big step, and excited to be part of it.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible).   
MAX DOMI:   No, not at all.   To be honest I'm just very happy to be a part of the Phoenix Coyotes, and can't wait to get started.  
   
 Q.   Will you pay more attention now that you're a part of it?  
MAX DOMI:   Yeah, I'll do some background research for sure.  
   
 Q.   What has your dad meant to you during this entire experience?  
MAX DOMI:   It's awesome.   He's definitely my No.1 fan, and he's a big reason to what I am today.   On and off the ice he's a first‑class guy, and he played a long, successful career in the NHL.   He didn't do the easiest job and he found a way to do it, and he was a good teammate every day.   He had a lot of success there, and definitely take a lot of notes from him.  
   
 Q.   Was it tough having Domi as a last name?   
MAX DOMI:   No, not at all.   It's part of who I am, and I can't change who my dad is, obviously.   You've just got to use it as an advantage.   Obviously some guys are going to kind of go after you a little bit more, but in the end you can't really change that.   I'm going to use it to my advantage, and I've got to be around some pretty cool people along the way.   It's been a roller coaster, but it's helped a lot.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible).   
MAX DOMI:   Yeah, our team was pretty hot in the playoffs.   When we got hot we're a tough team to beat in London there.   We've got four solid lines, six defensemen and two great goaltenders.   We were pretty good, obviously.   We're all expected to do whatever it takes to win.   The puck was going in a lot for us, and the linemates that I had over the Playoffs were unbelievable.   If you get a guy like Bo Horvat or Seth Griffith or Alex Broadhurst, we've all played with each other and it's definitely a big reason to why we've had so much success.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible).   
MAX DOMI:   So happy for him.   He's my best buddy, and Vancouver Canucks are very lucky to have a guy like that, and he's going to be in the NHL for a long, long time, and he's going to win a lot, too.   He's the best teammate there is and he'll do whatever it takes to win, so I couldn't be happier for him.  
   
 Q.   Did the draft go pretty much the way you expected or were you surprised?  
MAX DOMI:   No, I mean, obviously everyone kind of pays attention to where everyone is supposed to go and stuff like that.   But in the end we did everything we can all year and we left it all on the ice, and we just kind of left it up to the teams to make their decision, and that's their job.   So we just kind of sat back and relaxed and enjoyed the whole process for sure.   
   
 Q.   Was there kind of a healthy competition amongst you guys this season?  
MAX DOMI:   No, definitely not one‑upping each other, but we push each other and try to make each other better players, and all three of us are completely different players.   We all knew that we had to do whatever it takes to win, and in London the Hunters really kind of influence that, and we all took on a leadership role for sure.   Yeah, so those two guys are first‑class hockey players, and they're both going to have long, successful careers in the NHL and they're going to win a lot, too.   
   
 Q.   How would you compare your game to your dad's?  
MAX DOMI:   Well, you've seen him play and you've seen me play.   We're pretty different for sure, and at the same time he played 17 years in the NHL and his job was not easy at all.   He did whatever it takes to win, and he worked hard every day.   He'd show up to the rink with a smile on his face, and it's that kind of stuff within his game and his character that I've taken and tried to implement them into my game as much as I can.   
   
 Q.   Do you think there are expectations from people the first time they saw you that you kind of played that kind of role?  
MAX DOMI:   We're different people.   He did whatever he had to do to make it to the NHL, and I'm prepared to do the same thing.   Whatever that may be, I'm definitely prepared to do that.  
   
 Q.   Did you have any sense it might be Phoenix?   Had they shown interest in you?   
MAX DOMI:   No, I mean, you can't really put too much into that stuff.   They're an awesome organization, and I couldn't be happier.  
   
 Q.   The last two years in London have really flown by I imagine with Memorial Cup, everything like that?  
MAX DOMI:   Yeah, it's awesome.   Been through a lot obviously coming into the OHL as a 16 year old isn't an easy thing, and we won two championships and came up a little short on the big one, but in the end it's helped us a lot as a team and as individuals, as well.   
   
 Q.   Is there any one lesson that the Hunters taught you over that time that you take with you?  
MAX DOMI:   Their biggest philosophy is do whatever it takes to win and be the best teammate you possibly can, and they're both awesome, awesome guys, and the whole staff in London, from the training staff to equipment managers and assistant coaches, it's first class all the way, and I wouldn't be here without those guys for sure.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible).   
MAX DOMI:   I touched on it earlier.   We call him Mr.Perfect sometimes.   He doesn't mess up too much.   He does everything he's asked to do, and he works hard every shift.   In the end you can't ask for much more than that.   He's a guy to go out and compete every shift and do whatever it takes to win, and he's the poster boy for that.   He's going to be a great hockey player.  
   
 Q.   So the nickname is not a shot at his vanity or anything like that?  
MAX DOMI:   No, it's a good thing.  
   
 Q.   Did you say you're his best friend?  
MAX DOMI:   Yeah, we've grown up playing against each other, and on the team we're very close.   Obviously we've been through a lot together, the whole process, and we're very close buddies, and we room together on the road.   We've learned a lot from each other.  
   
 Q.   The problem with playing in Vancouver (inaudible) Canadian market with such an intense spotlight.   How do you think he'll handle that kind of intense pressure?  
MAX DOMI:   No, he'll do great.   He's got a big stage to perform on, and as you've seen, he's kind of risen to every occasion he's had to, getting the MVP trophy for the OHL playoff run and scoring a goal with .01 seconds left is really who he is.   You can't ask for much more than that.  
   
 Q.   I know you've got the goods on him, so within reason what's maybe something you can tell me about him that he probably wishes people didn't know?   People something about his personality?  
MAX DOMI:   He's a pretty intense guy.   We always like to pick his brain a bit.   He's very similar to Jonathan Toews.   He does whatever it takes to win, and he's going to do a good job in the NHL some day.   That's just who he is.   All joking aside, he's a pretty big dancer.   He likes to dance, and he doesn't like when people see him dancing, but we'll catch him sometimes and it's pretty funny.  
   
 Q.   How does it feel to be drafted?  
MAX DOMI:   Unbelievable.   I'm so happy.   It's a dream come true.   I couldn't be a happier guy right now.  
   
 Q.   Who's sharing this experience with you, your dad and the rest of your family?   Who's with you?   
MAX DOMI:   No, my parents obviously, my two sisters, my billet family, the Tooks, my aunt and uncle, Trish, Orrey, Dash, Adam Graves is here, as well, the Peltz family.   I'll go on forever.   I'll stop there, and my trainer John.   It's been awesome.   I'm very happy to have them all by my side here.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible).   
MAX DOMI:   Yeah, unbelievable.   I've said it probably three or four times already about how awesome they are.   It's a first‑class organization and they develop winners and they develop NHL hockey players, and in the end that's what you look for in a junior organization.   They're pretty special people for sure.  
   
 Q.   Has it helped sharing this experience with some of your teammates?   
MAX DOMI:   Yeah.   We're all very close, and we push each other every day.   It's been an awesome run, and we run into each other a lot, and definitely those two guys are huge for why we're all here.  
   
 Q.   Obviously you and your dad are different kind of players, but is there one specific thing he taught you that sticks out the most?  
MAX DOMI:   Yeah, just to compete every shift and be the best teammate you can.   Those are two things that are technically, I guess, a stereotypical answer, but that's really who he is.   He worked hard every shift and he did whatever he was told to do, and he sacrificed a lot, so definitely those three.  
   
 Q.   Is there one hockey, tactical thing?  
MAX DOMI:   No, no.   He kind of gives it to me because he's the only guy to go 1‑0 in a shootout.   He's got a perfect record.   I think it was in an exhibition game, so I tease him a little bit about that, but he went five hole on Ryan Miller one time.   It was a terrible move, but he scored somehow, so he lets me know about that.  
   
 Q.   Off the ice what's the most important thing that your dad has taught you?  
MAX DOMI:   Just to enjoy everything and be the nicest person you possibly can 24/7.   He's a special guy.   He's got all the things it takes to be a hockey player and a professional athlete, and he's definitely a pretty big person in my life for sure.  
   
 Q.   What's the difference between him on the ice and off the ice?   
MAX DOMI:   Not much, actually.   He's got a pretty short fuse.   Me and my sisters like to get under his skin, and we know what buttons to press, and he's an easy guy to rattle for sure.  
   
 Q.   Did you used to press his buttons when you were growing up?  
MAX DOMI:   Oh, yeah, all the time.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT