NBA PLAYOFFS ROUND TWO: GRIZZLIES v WARRIORS
May 13, 2015
David Joerger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









COACH JOERGER:   Interesting game, I thought we were in striking distance.   I don't think we played really well.   Give them a lot of credit.   They made a lot of shots.   They moved the basketball very well.   We can't put up two 16‑point quarters and play against team that's can score.   You've got to be able to score.   I thought we had good looks.   We were 15 for 42 in the paint, so we're getting shots.   I thought we got a lot of good looks, but we had too many turnovers tonight. 
They had a lot of fast‑breakpoints and second chance opportunities getting offensive rebounds.   And they all lead to the three‑point shot, so that's kind of the cause of why they go 14 for 30 from three, and it's tough to get outscored by 10 at the three‑point line.   So tough night for us.   They made shots.   They played very well.   Tough place to play, and hopefully we'll be back here for Game 7

Q.   Coach, you've got enough to worry about with Curry and Thompson.   Then when a guy like Iguodala has a game like tonight you almost have to concede him making shots? 
COACH JOERGER:   Yeah, it's pick your poison.   Their bench has been tremendous.   I don't think Shaun Livingston gets the credit he deserves as a low length defender and he gives them stability.   Harrison Barnes is quietly having a tremendous series and doesn't get enough credit.   I think Iguodala knocking in threes, it's like not another one.   Not another guy that they have out there spacing the floor, knocking them in.   So you look at their bench, Iguodala was plus 23.   Tonight Shaun Livingston plus 21.   David Lee was plus 18.   That's a huge boost for them.   You know, they've been doing that all year.   They have a good bench.   They have a lot of depth.   They have a lot of length.   And with their size, guys abilities to close out with their size.   Guys ability to make three point shots.   It's hard to close out for smaller guys. 
Certainly Steph and Klay get a lot of attention, so all those other guys get to lick their fingers and line them up.

Q.   Coach, I know you guys don't want to make any excuses, but how different does this team look without Tony Allen? 
COACH JOERGER:   Well, everybody was saying we couldn't score because Tony Allen was on the floor, and we put up 78 without him.   So I'll defend the guy to the hilt.   He's the best.   Tremendous defender.   He's a warrior.   He plays with his heart every single night, and the juice that he brings to a game, especially when we're struggling, we had it to 8, we had it to 10 most of the game.   A guy like that goes and gets a loose ball, dives on the floor, gets a deflection, gets a steal, gets a putback. 
Those kind of things really kind of help your team go, yeah, you know what?   We can get this done.   So we really missed that from Tony tonight, let alone what he does as a defender, which I could go on and on for that.

Q.   You mentioned diving on the floor for loose balls and hustle plays.   Is that an area where you felt like you could have done better tonight? 
COACH JOERGER:   Yeah, exactly.   They got to every one of them.   They laid their bodies out.   We stood and watched a lot.   Balls bouncing around that they get, and again, they torture you because it's another free look that they get and another free shot.   So it's easier to get in rhythm the more shots you get, and those extra shots that they're taking and our defense just keep wearing you down. 
So definitely the number one thing we talked about coming into the game was getting long, bouncing shots and rebounds, and a lot of times that's got to be your ones, twos, and threes, Mark and Zach in there banging away.   Trying to get every loose ball that they can.   But the balls that bounce out to 15 to 25 feet in that range, we've got to go get.

Q.   Your team shot less, they had less looks in the restricted area during this game.   How do you improve that moving into Game 6? 
COACH JOERGER:   Which part, theirs or ours? 

Q.   Yours.   Getting more looks at the rim. 
COACH JOERGER:   We shot 42 times in the paint.   So that's low for us.   We'd like to do it more and get more.   But we need to complete better.   The problem is that there are a lot of people in there, so how do you do that? 
You've got to open up the floor, knock in shots from the perimeter and make them wonder a little bit when they come to double team from the back side.   We've got to get our spacing correct when guys are supposed to cut and guys are supposed to be available on the perimeter.   And we've got to step up and knock some shots down.   We're 4 for 15, but we made 3 of our last 4.   I think at one point we were 1 for 11, and that's not going to help them hurry up and get out to the other three‑point line. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT