WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC: 2ND ROUND POOL F
March 18, 2017
Omar Vizquel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Puerto Rico - 13, Venezuela - 2
Q. The team leaves with quite a loss.  Can you tell me about today?  How do you qualify this tournament and obviously with the game with Italy?
OMAR VIZQUEL: I think that we didn't play the baseball that I expected nor that people expected, and in the first round we allowed 30 runs in these games, and we tried to come back from behind, but we tried to bring some runs in at least to come out alive.
The second round we were quite optimistic.  We didn't keep our heads down.  We had a meeting where we talked about the errors that we committed in the first round thinking that we were going to do much better in all aspects.  And Felix did a good job with that inning on the 8th inning, and we thought we had an advantage.  Despite that, we didn't win that game.
Obviously, we had high pitches and there were home runs, and that obviously cost us the entire series, and they hit quite a bit of home runs.
Afterwards, we played with the Dominican Republic, we couldn't make any hits.  Chacin did a great job, but we couldn't bring any runs in.  Obviously, our backs were against the wall against the Dominicans.  We practically were out of there.
This morning we came into the game already eliminated.  Obviously, if we won the game, we would not have the opportunity to do a tiebreaker.  In general, the expectations were quite low.  Sincerely, we thought we were going to play better ball.
Q. How do you analyze the first experience as manager?  And would you be willing to repeat this in another series?
OMAR VIZQUEL: This was very difficult in the first game, and to begin to recuperate the confidence, it was very difficult.  We were always trying to gain ground from behind, and we didn't have any advantage in any of the games.
It was very difficult to -- you know, runs, runs, it's just with this particular lineup that had a little bit of everything, and we had a pretty good balance in terms of what was on paper.  We didn't think that this was the way we were going to play.  It was surprising for all of us.  We didn't have any type of ego.  Everyone was so focused, professional in all aspects, and everyone knew their roles.  Undoubtedly there were some players that got hurt.  Salvador Perez, Prado, Boracho (phonetic) and Suarez, they were with us in the first round, and then, obviously, they felt the ambiance of the game or the environment.  And having these players become hurt, it really developed that atmosphere.
Who would not want to lead this team full of stars and to be in contact with them and speaking with them at all times so that they could not feel bad about that particular game that they played that they could have done a better job.  Some of them actually volunteered to play other positions, and there were some changes that were made in the lineup in which some of the players were swinging the bat better than others.  All of that we consulted with them, and none of them felt a sadness for not having participated.  Everyone batted, everyone pitched, and I'm very happy because I had the opportunity.
Clearly the group that I led was extraordinary.  Obviously the management provided support at all times to find solutions so we could get to the top.  They allowed me to do my job, and obviously things didn't turn out the way we wanted to.
Q. Congratulations on your journey that you've had at the WBC.  Physically, with regard to the players that were hurt, Salvador Perez, in particular, and how did this start to develop with four or five players that became hurt?
OMAR VIZQUEL: That obviously cost us quite a bit.  We left Mexico quite a bit concerned.  Some of us couldn't run.  Cabrera couldn't come with us.  It was because we played those games because we were playing on artificial terrain.  We weren't actually accustomed to playing consecutive games.  Obviously, our bodies did not react in the same manner.
Obviously, we're not going to use this as an excuse that we weren't in shape, but obviously everyone prepares themselves for this kind of tournament.  But that is something very surprising, because they're not used to playing on artificial terrain.
I loved being with them.  I think they were prepared for the mission, and I think they were ready for the positions they were playing in.  We tried to provide them with a good experience in good conditions, but we obviously had some players quite hurt and that cost us quite a bit.
Q. What would you recommend from the organizing committee so that the following Classic would be better?
OMAR VIZQUEL: Well, now, I've always said that if in reality we're going to do this kind of game, that we have to take care of our ballplayers.  Obviously, how could we not replace a player if they get hurt?  We have had pitchers who have been very tired because we don't have that factor that we can bring in a pitcher because another one got hurt.  We couldn't wait for another player to come in for the next round.  And 30 pitches, it was obviously very difficult.  Those that are on the bench, they couldn't play that game very well and in a very positive manner.
Obviously, we have to modify these issues, and they should be a lot more flexible in that regard.
Q. Miguel Cabrera didn't play today because obviously because of the semifinals.  What could Venezuela do so that they could jump to the next level?  Obviously with the list with the All-Star and the Major Leagues, you as manager, what could you do?
OMAR VIZQUEL: With Miguel, obviously, he didn't play.  It's not because we weren't going to the following round, it's because he's hurt, simple as that.  He had a hurt back and he had a pulled muscle.  It's a bit swollen.
And as a matter of precaution, we didn't play him.  He wanted to play, and obviously we didn't put him out there due to precaution.  Obviously, a ballplayer that plays at 50, 60% is not a good thing.  We didn't want to expose him to that kind of an environment.
With regard to the other thing, Venezuela has had problems in the WBC in the following round.  We haven't gone to the next level, and I don't know what the solution is.  We thought we were going to get to the finals.  These ballplayers represent the Major Leagues.  Even though they wanted to play this Classic and some said no, there were some that the key elements are all here.
All of them are All-Star players.  They went to the playoffs, they were at a World Series, and we had a great team.  We had a great group of coaches.  We knew our strategy, our work plan so that they could facilitate the work that they needed to get done.
Obviously, that didn't happen.  Other teams came very prepared.  They executed their plan to perfection, and they pitched much better than us and batted better than us.  Simple as that.
Q. What's the plan for the Venezuela National Team over the next few years?
OMAR VIZQUEL: I have no idea.  Pack up and go to their teams, I guess.  We have four more years to think about this.  By that time there's going to be a lot of players here that it's going to be their last game.  Like Victor Martinez, for example, is a player that is probably not going to be in the next Classic.  We don't know the journey that he's going to bring all the other players.
So, you know, I wish the best to everyone after the game.  I hope they can continue their bright careers and they have the chance to represent Venezuela in the next one, but I'm not sure what's going to happen.
Q. You were obviously in a position that the Venezuelan fans in particular -- do you feel this result exposes you a bit from the admiration that people had as a ballplayer?  How would you categorize your performance?
OMAR VIZQUEL: In one word, unfortunate.  With regard to your question, you have to learn to stand how you did as a ballplayer, what you did as a ballplayer and obviously as manager.  When the team loses, obviously the decisions are going to fall on the manager, and we have to take that responsibility.  One prepares for that as a ballplayer.
And you've had your past as a ballplayer, and you need to do something very different at this stage of the game, and obviously we need to learn based on this experience what occurred at the WBC and what comes next.  The Detroit Tigers, we had lots of coaches that understand the game.  These are my professors, practically, as Jim Leyland, who is managing this game for the U.S.
I'm very grateful.  These are ballplayers that have played for a long time, and these are the key individuals that maintain the Detroit Tigers in place.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT