AL DIVISION SERIES: INDIANS v MARINERS
October 13, 2001
Omar Vizquel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  How important was it for the top of the lineup to get on track after your first two games? 

OMAR VIZQUEL:   It was pretty good.  I think a lot of people were just looking forward to us getting on base so Juan, Jimmy and Ellis can do their thing.  I think you get a lot more confidence when you're at the top of the lineup and you can get on base a little bit and they can make things happen. 

Q.  If you can win this series, especially in four games, people will say it was a major upset; will they be right? 

OMAR VIZQUEL:   You know, you always  -- I think so.  I think when you win 116 games, you expect that team to go all the way.  You know, every time you step into a playoff, it's a completely different story.  You're playing a team that wants to win.  They want to go to the World Series.  But a lot of things happen during 116 games.  There is a lot of great personal records and stuff, but you've got to put it together in the playoffs and try to win, too. 

Q.  It looked like you stuck to your game plan and had a pretty good approach against Aaron Sele and going the other way and whatnot.  What's your game plan against Garcia? 

OMAR VIZQUEL:   Kind of the same.  A lot of these pitchers right now, they are not giving you much, so you have to take what they give you.  A lot of outside pitches, breaking balls, they try to do that to get us off balance and try to keep us off the bases. You know, just try to be patient at the plate and get a good ball to hit.

Q.  What does it mean to have a record for RBIs? 

OMAR VIZQUEL:   I haven't even thought about it.  You just brought it up; I didn't even know it was a record.  It was just good to have a good game, get on base.  I scored a lot of runs.  I guess if we go down through history, you've got to mention some of the guys with RBIs, you would never hear my name, but it's nice to be in the book. 

Q.  Have you ever heard of Elmer Smith who held the record?

OMAR VIZQUEL:   No.  (Laughs).

Q.  What were you and Robbie talking to Ichiro about when he was on second base?

OMAR VIZQUEL:   We were teaching some Spanish lessons.  (Laughter.)

He was speaking English pretty good and he throws some Spanish words out there, but we just let him know some other stuff in Spanish. 

Q.  Do you think the top of the lineup was pressing the first couple of games, just trying to swing at anything, trying to make something happen, and then it just fell into place at home? 

OMAR VIZQUEL:   I don't think so.  I think that we didn't really have the year that we were expecting.  Speaking about myself and probably Kenny, it wasn't in the same situation.  We just got really low numbers offensively.  You know, coming into the series, there were some doubts if we were going to hit or not, but I think in this type of competition, your level of concentration can erase a little bit, as well.  Kenny, myself, we've been in the playoffs and World Series and we know what it takes to win.  You just have to be relaxed and trust in yourself. 

Q.  Omar, when you've got a young pitcher like C.C.  starting a big game like this, does that put a little more pressure on you defensively to make plays? 

OMAR VIZQUEL:   No, I don't think so.  You know, we were just talking to him the whole game about the things that he has to do in order to be successful.  We keep him calm all the time, come up to him and say, "Stick to your game plan no matter what happens."  In the first inning, he had a rough inning.  He had a long inning.  The most important thing for him was to stay within himself, and I think he bounced back in the second inning.  We gave him some confidence scoring some runs, and he just put it in cruise control after that. 

Q.  What kind of pitches were you seeing?  What things were inviting to you up there? 

OMAR VIZQUEL:   Well, from Sele, I saw a lot of fastballs away, and, of course, I saw a couple of breaking balls; that's his best pitch.   And again, Paul Abbott, I saw a lot of changeups.  I think that's his best pitch.  I just was trying to bring the ball up a little bit because his changeup is pretty good.  Against Paniagua, a lot of sinkerballs away. 

Q.  Obviously, Seattle has their backs to the wall now.  Given that Colon is pitching tomorrow and Moyer is waiting for Game  5, is there a sense of urgency for you guys to put it away tomorrow? 

OMAR VIZQUEL:   Well, no, only because Moyer is pitching Game  5  -- I think we can be able to beat Moyer.  But you don't really want to fly five hours to play one game.  I mean, that's just the bottom line.  You want to finish it in your house, in your home, behind all of this great crowd out here, and I just want to avoid the trip.  It's going to be a good situation for us because we have Colon on the mound.  After a game like, this it's going to be hard for them to concentrate tomorrow, and it's a good time.  I don't think you want to go to Seattle for Game  5. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT