WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC: 2ND ROUND POOL F
March 16, 2017
Omar Vizquel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Dominican Republic - 3, Venezuela - 0
Q. What do you attribute the good pitches from the Dominican Republic to in terms of the results?  That's the first question.  Second, is Cabrera -- did he ask you to bring him out?
OMAR VIZQUEL: First, I think it was an incredible pitching game between Chacin, and he was incredible in this game.  The whole game plan was he executed it precisely.  This was a great game.  It wasn't -- there weren't errors, but, you know, we obviously didn't hit any runs as we were batting.
And the infield, we could at least make a run here, but in front of Reyes, who couldn't be any more perfect with his double play.  But in Cabrera, he obviously on one of the swings, he was grabbing his leg.  He was stretching.  And when that game was done, I didn't like his response, and I pulled him out.
You know, his back is tight, and he's not going to continue the game.
Q. Obviously it was a very difficult situation, and this was in the first round that was similar.  What does the Venezuelan team have to do to continue to confront these teams?
OMAR VIZQUEL: Well, we've lived that experience with a tie game, a possible tiebreaker.  We didn't want to relive that experience again, and I think the game with Puerto Rico, we were against the wall, and we need to make some runs to survive.  We've only completed two runs, and the percentage of effectiveness, really, we're going to have a difficult time if we don't really tighten that piece up.
Q. Is it possible to do in the 9th inning, hit on the third or the second?  Do the players know, do the coaches remind them that they have to bring runs in, bring runs in?  Because potentially that could be a complication at the end.
OMAR VIZQUEL: In that situation, we wanted to actually bring it to home plate at least to tie it, and we didn't really want to risk taking any chances, and we wanted to simply tie the game.  We were going to ensure that we were going to have a run in, then we would have done it.
Q. It's been very difficult in your first experience as manager.  Salvador Perez, who is the person who supervises the pitches, how do you resolve that situation that arises?  It's been very difficult for you to address these issues?
OMAR VIZQUEL: Obviously, especially when it comes to some of the players being hurt, Martin Prado who also got hurt, Chirinos has done a great job bringing it home.  And he's been moving the pitches quite well, and I have quite a bit of confidence in him, especially with the players that are hurt.
There is nothing that you can do.  We knew it was going to be very difficult this particular Classic.  And if you're not in shape when you're asking your body to actually perform and you're not at 100%, it's very difficult.  It's unfortunate that, obviously, some of them are obviously hurt.
Q. Do you anticipate that Miguel Cabrera will be present for this game specifically with him being hurt?
OMAR VIZQUEL: He's obviously -- his waist is still hurting, but he's a warrior.  The then he had an issue with his ankle, and he had an operation with that particular ankle.  He's a warrior, he's a warrior.  And, hopefully tomorrow he'll be recuperating, and hopefully he'll wake up relaxed.  And obviously if he's doing well by Saturday, well, logically we're going to include him.  He's the captain of the team.  We're going to see how he's going to feel for that timeframe.  Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT