WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC: 2ND ROUND POOL F
March 15, 2017
Omar Vizquel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








United States - 4, Venezuela - 2
Q. I'd like to know if you have considered the rotation for tomorrow?
OMAR VIZQUEL: Yes, I have tomorrow.  But everything is going to be dependent on what kind of pitches, whether he arrives at the fifth or sixth inning.  And we'll make the decision then.
Q. How did you see the game at the 7th inning and the 8th inning?  What impulsed you to continue to support them?
OMAR VIZQUEL: Well, at that point, the game was already above them.  The turn, it was indicated, and we needed to actually have confidence in him.  He was already there.  He was our horse, and I have to give him trust.  But we had about two errors, I believe.  That was to pitch the ball really high, and we obviously paid for it.  One of the things that we talked about the reunion today that we couldn't commit those kinds of errors with those kind of pitches, especially because we have the caliber of batters, and we're going to pay for that.
Q. Did you think about leaving Felix out there for another inning, or did you only have a certain number of pitches that you could throw him?
OMAR VIZQUEL: Well, on the last start, he went 50 pitches, 51 pitches.  And at this time he had 60 already.  When I went to talk to him, he wasn't feeling too comfortable about the possibility of going out in the next inning.  So I decided to go with the bullpen.
Q. Talk about the hurt players, especially (inaudible) --
OMAR VIZQUEL: Well, there were two pitchers that fell, and he had an injury in his elbow, and I lost Salvador Perez and our catcher.  And I'm not going to be able to use him.  It's been very frustrating because in reality I don't want any of our ballplayers to be in this kind of a situation.  It's unfortunate, the fact that I have already lost four ballplayers that are critical for us.
Q. You guys are out the whole game and a couple pitches and it turns and it's over.  Can you describe the emotions or the feelings about how the game ended up?
OMAR VIZQUEL: Well, we were talking to the guys before the game about trying to make sure that we bring the ball down with this kind of lineup.  Every time that you make a mistake like that or bring the ball up in the strike zone, you're going to pay.  That's what happened with Hosmer.  We got a high pitch, a high fastball, and he connected very well, the same way with Jones.  We want to make sure in those situations that we keep the ball down so we can get the ground balls.
Q. The team was obviously sacrificing some of the offense.  Now what is going to be the replacement?  Are you going to be thinking of other players?
OMAR VIZQUEL: I'm going to study the situation.  I'm going to talk to the coaches and see what would be the best for the team, and let's see if that formula will create some results.  But at this point, I haven't made a decision yet.
Q. Exactly what does Martin have?
OMAR VIZQUEL: He has a pulled hamstring on the right leg, and that logically is not going to be something that we're going to force until he tells us that he feels okay.  Maybe he may not play for the rest of the Classic.
Q. Have you made adjustments or videos, obviously keeping in mind the pitcher that you have for tomorrow?
OMAR VIZQUEL: No.  We're concentrating on the game today.  Tomorrow we're going to worry about that.
Q. What was Felix's (inaudible) when he made the play in the first inning?
OMAR VIZQUEL: It was a little cramp in the upper side of his right leg.  The way that he caught the ball and tried to throw to first base, he said that he turned it a little bit, but thank God he made a couple of pitches and he said that he felt pretty good.  We kept checking him in every inning to make sure that he's not getting tired during the game, and he did okay.  Then after the game, he's fine, so hopefully he will be okay.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT