WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC: 1ST ROUND POOL D
March 12, 2017
Omar Vizquel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








México - 11, Venezuela - 9
Q. Can you tell us because of the complex game, tell us what happened there and how did you find out?
OMAR VIZQUEL: Well, I had only one thing in my mind, and that was winning the game today.  That was logical.  Things didn't work out well, and the result between the rules allowed runs against, Venezuela had the advantage by about a thousandth of advantage, and we will play that game tomorrow against Italy.  Logically that was surprising, and well, we are happy that at least we are going to have another chance.
Q. If you could explain it to your English viewers.  What happened back there, tell us about the meeting, and going forward into the tiebreaker tomorrow.
OMAR VIZQUEL: Well, it was a really difficult situation that we had to go through.  I only had one thing in mind today, and it was to win a ballgame, and we didn't have to go through all this, but obviously the situation didn't help out.  We lost the game, and according to the rules, Major League Baseball, we did runs scored and the runs allowed.  The difference between like really close, by a hair.  So Major League Baseball came together, they come to us and tell us that we're going to have a chance to play tomorrow that extra game with Italy.  I think for us it's great because we now have a second opportunity to be there.
Q. Over there in the press box, a lot of counting all game, winning by one, by two, all those situations.  On your bench, were you counting like that?
OMAR VIZQUEL: No, I think the players were not even playing an inning, they started asking what the chances were.  I heard something, some of them mentioned that, but that wasn't the mentality.  The mentality was to win the game, come back and win the ballgame.  Really I didn't want to know anything like that until the end of the game.  What I wanted was to win the ballgame.
Q. It's official who's going to start.
OMAR VIZQUEL: Omar Bencomo is going to start, but we have four pitchers for tomorrow because almost all of them had a chance to pitch two days in a row.  The ones that had more than 30 pitches, and I have three pitchers that are hurt.  I cannot substitute, and that hurts a lot, because we have to use only the ones that are available.
Q. Today you advance just because of the rules, but when you see the math and everything, do you think it's something that should be fixed or do you think it's valid for the next edition?
OMAR VIZQUEL: Well, the rules are clear for everybody.  I think the rules were set.  They had already studied the case, and we had to be in this situation in order to learn in the future to be in a situation like this.  Obviously we are going to start studying them again and they will have a better understanding of what can happen, complications, problems, discussions, and have everything clear like it is right now on the paper.  But logically it causes some difference of minds, and that's not what we want.  We want clarity at all times, and that's what happened.
I think the rules were already on paper.
Q. What lessons does it leave you?  You also had some defensive problems, especially yesterday in the fifth inning.
OMAR VIZQUEL: The offense has it difficult coming from behind in all the games.  We have received runs early, and we have been against a wall all the time.  We have done a lot in order to score some runs and come back in the games, and that wasn't the mentality that we had or we thought we were going to play with.  With the players we have, I thought we were going to play better ball, but well, it has cost us because we have been coming from behind all the time.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT