DUBAI DUTY FREE IRISH OPEN HOSTED BY THE RORY FOUNDATION
July 6, 2017
Oli Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Strong round of golf today.  What was the best part of your game today?
OLI FISHER: Well, I think we had great conditions obviously this morning.  It's been perfect for the most part of the round, not a breath of wind.
I hit the ball okay.  I was in play most of the holes.  Gave myself a lot of chances.  I had a good run from I think it was 4 through 8 maybe, I made a few birdies in a row there.  Made some nice putts and hit some good wedge shots, so it was a nice round.
Q. You have a Top-10 this year and a Top-20.  Did you see this round coming?
OLI FISHER: Yeah, I mean, I've not been playing bad lately.  I've been playing okay.  Just haven't put four rounds together.  Like I said, the conditions were really good this morning.  The greens were rolling really true.
So I think this course is pretty scorable if the conditions -- if it gets breezy out there, I think some holes can play pretty tricky.  I think when the wind gets up, we'll see some good scores.
Q. What's the most important thing you have to do over the next three rounds?
OLI FISHER: I think just much of the same.  Just hit fairways and greens and try and make a few putts.  Just simple stuff, really.
Q. I know you dropped one at the last, but an opening round 65, you must be very pleased with that.
OLI FISHER: Yeah, I would have taken that going out this morning.  A shame to bogey the last but this course, if you get a little out of position off the tee, it makes holes pretty tricky.
I was fortunate enough to have a good little spell in my round where I made a few birdies and I hit some good wedge shots.  We had great conditions this morning.  It was perfect for scoring to be honest.
Q. And the highlight was the eagle on 13?
OLI FISHER: Yeah, definitely.  I made a nice putt there.  I hit a good drive and a good 5-iron into 30 feet or so, and read the putt really well coming down the hill there.  It was a really nice putt to make, especially after bogeying the par 3 before.
Q. I think you were 9-under par through 11 holes in the middle section.  It was an incredible run.
OLI FISHER: Yeah, I think if you keep it in play around here and hit some good iron shots, you can give yourself quite a few chances.  The experience are rolling really true, and they are pretty flat in areas.
So if you get your irons, I think you'll see guys make a lot of birdies.
Q. And the game generally seems in good shape.  A 69 on Friday in France in tough conditions last week, and that form has transferred into this week.
OLI FISHER: Yeah, my game's not far away.  I haven't really had any amazing results yet, but I'm not playing too bad.  So just a matter of keep sticking in and doing the things, doing the simple things well and trying to enjoy myself.
Started off on the first obviously and bogeyed the third, the par 3.  Then went on a nice run after that.  So yeah, it was good.  Shame to finish with bogey but would certainly have taken 65 at the start of the day.
Q. Nice eagle, as well.
OLI FISHER: Yeah, definitely, the two par 5s was downwind when we was playing them and I think I hit 5-iron into 13 and 8-iron into 14.  You'll see a lot of eagles on them holes, especially with the pins today.  They are pretty accessible at the front on 13 and kind of middle left on 14.
The guys, if they get their tee shots away, they can get near them flags.  Like I said, the greens are rolling pretty true and there's not much break, so you'll see a lot of guys make putts.
Q. Where do you think you are at in terms of what you can do this week and over the weekend?
OLI FISHER: Yeah, I think it's just a matter of going out and doing my best, trying to hit the shots I want to hit and keep it in play, and playing golf, really.  I think we'd all sit here and say we'd like to shoot three more 65s, but over the course of a week, we know we'll go through spells of grinding and that and trying to get things up-and-down.
Just as long as I go out there and do my best and commit to what I want to do as much as I can, that's all I can ask myself really.
Q. You've known Rory awhile from the Amateur days.  When you look at this whole event and what he's done for The Irish Open and what's going on here, are you impressed?
OLI FISHER: Yeah, it's fantastic.  I think this is the third one where Rory has supported it and with the foundation, and it's great to see The Irish Open move around Ireland.  The crowds are always fantastic here.  I think Rory's done a great job with all the support he gives it, and the time and with his foundation, and I think Portstewart is a great venue here, too.  If the weather holds up, hopefully it will be a great week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT