ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT PAUL LAWRIE MATCH PLAY
August 6, 2016
Oli Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What's the verdict on a tough old match but in the end you've come through.
OLIVER FISHER: Yeah, indeed, it was a bit of a battle out there for both of us.  Both of us weren't quite on our game.  I was fortunate enough to get off to a good start.  3-up early on after four holes, and made a couple of mistakes.  Hit a poor shot into 7 but luckily both made par there.  Poor shot off the ninth tee and gave him a couple holes, really, 10 and 11.
It was back to all-square, and thankfully made a good birdie on 13, the par 3 and great shot into 14, too.  They were a couple of big birdies, and nice break on 15 and fortunately won the hole there, too.
Q. I daresay you don't feel comfortable when you got those two birdies back, but you know you're then in control with time running out.
OLIVER FISHER: Yeah, I think match play, it's always harder to close out a match than it seems.  When you're out there trying to do it, you think, all you've got to do is do this, and all you've got to do is do that.  You've still got to hit some pretty good shots.
I was fortunate; I got a good break on 15, missed my drive to the right on the 16th fairway.  I'll take it; take the score I made today.
Q. Is there any more tension or any more excitement knowing it was quarterfinal and you're now into semis?
OLIVER FISHER: Yeah, I mean, I think all you can do is take each match as it comes, and play as good as you can and keep trying your best.  It's an 18-hole shootout really, so anything can happen over that time.
Q. How is the course going today in the sunshine?
OLIVER FISHER: Lovely.  We got a lovely day here in Scotland today.  The sun is out and there's hardly a cloud in the sky.  We're very lucky.
Q. You played two matches yesterday, two today; energy levels still good for the semis?
OLIVER FISHER: Yeah, all right.  I feel I've just woken up now.  We had a pretty late one finishing yesterday, 2.15 start, so it was fairly late golf and pretty early this morning.  I'm not so much of a good riser.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT