ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT PAUL LAWRIE MATCH PLAY
August 5, 2016
Oli Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You've beaten Richie Ramsay at the 17, 4-up and apparently cruising and then a couple back.  Tell us about that from your point of view.
OLIVER FISHER: Yeah, I hit a couple loose shots coming in.  16, can you tell me by surprise a little bit.  I didn't think it would be that quick going up the fringe there.  But it's a good win.  Richie is a steady player.  Richie is a good player and great match player.  I'm delighted to beat him.
Q. This is your 21st start of the season and your best finish has been 22nd.  Have you felt this coming?
OLIVER FISHER: I don't know, I think I've not played probably as bad as my results are this year.  I missed quite a few cuts by one or two shots and not played that badly.  But it's a long year, and there's a lot of events left.
I think I'm old enough now, I've been on Tour long enough to sort of take my time and realise the good weeks will come and just be patient with myself and take it from there really.
Q. 154th in Race to Dubai, you need something to happen to secure your rights for next year.  How big a sense of opportunity is there for this weekend?
OLIVER FISHER: Yeah, it's match play this week, so it's a bit different to a normal stroke-play tournament.  I think the only thing you can go out there is do your best, score your ball as good as you can.  Play a little bit to what your opponent does at times if need be.  But apart from that, you've just got to go out there and give it your best each round and hopefully that's good enough.
Q. The Amateur championship, was it in '05, you beat Richie?
OLIVER FISHER: I don't know, you're going back some years.
Q. Birkdale, was it?
OLIVER FISHER: Birkdale, yeah.  I lost to John Gallagher in the semis.
Q. I think you beat Richie the round before that.
OLIVER FISHER: Some memory you got there.
Q. Obviously Walker Cup and everything like that.
OLIVER FISHER: Yeah, I played a lot with Richie when I was young and obviously know him a long time.  He's a good match player.  He won the U.S. Amateur, I don't know if he's won Scottish amateur or anything like that.  But he's obviously a gritty sort of player and it was always going to be a tough game.
I was fortunate enough to get off to a good start.  I didn't putt very well this morning and felt like I left a few out there.  Rolled a nice 20-footer in on the first and that sort of gave me a little bit of confidence.  I putted the front nine well.  I holed some nice putts on the front nine.  I was up, I think I was three or four up at the turn.
You know, from that, gives you a little bit of a cushion going into the back nine.
Q. Patience is such an important thing in golf.  Have you felt that throughout your career?
OLIVER FISHER: Golf's a tough game.  I think the years and years I've played it, I've played it well sometimes and poor sometimes.
So I think you've just got to take it for what it is and keep doing your best and keep going all the way really.  Everyone goes for a bit of battle out there with themselves, with the course, with the clubs and stuff.
Like you say, just got to be patient and keep trying your best and hopefully you knock a few putts in and make a few birdies and it's all good.
Q. What are your thoughts on the news from Nike this week?
OLIVER FISHER: I don't know to be honest.  It's obviously pretty sad news for Nike Golf and for the guys involved with Nike Golf.  I don't really know what will happen with the business and with the company.  Obviously they are keep going apparel and footwear and things, which is great.
The service that they have always given us has been first class.  It's just one of those things really.  They have supported me since I was probably 14 years old.
Q. You've played their clubs since then?
OLIVER FISHER: Yeah, I've played their clubs since I was 13, 14.  Almost come up to 15 years, really, 14 years.
It's sad but at the same time, I'm sure they will come up with something and figure it out for us to obviously have a good way to move forward with our games and progress, because I think that's what they are all about as a company, being innovative and striving forward and doing what's right for the athlete.
Q. There will be a change of clubs presumably.
OLIVER FISHER: Yeah, by the sound of it.  There's plenty out there, isn't there, to try and to test.  There's not a shortage of that.
I think from Nike's point of view, the support will be there for the players and the guys to move forward and take their time in whatever they are do and support them through that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT