COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 24, 2013
Gary Lockerbie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  GARY LOCKERBIE:   Almost just hanging on a little bit at the end there, running out of light and I was running out of energy.   Nice to get finished on a good score.  
   
 Q.   I guess you get started in the heat of the day and the sun really does bake, but it gets cold quickly and the wind was picking up?  
    GARY LOCKERBIE:   It does cool down.   It seems like it was getting a little more breezy towards the end there.   But I think it was maybe just the temperature dropping, I don't know.   But as I say, just glad to get finished and another shot at it tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   So it wasn't making a difference to your shots with the breeze picking up a bit?  
    GARY LOCKERBIE:   Well, just when it cools down, the ball doesn't travel quite as far, anyway.   That last hole played particularly long for us today.   But we got there in the end.   
   
 Q.   Have you noticed much of a difference between morning and afternoon play?   
    GARY LOCKERBIE:   Well, I mean, morning there might be slightly less breeze or whatever, but the grass, the rough is very wet in the morning as well.   I think it works out pretty even.   Just the greens would be a better surface in the morning than the afternoon, that's all really.  
   
 Q.   Your thoughts on your position on that board?   
    GARY LOCKERBIE:   It's nice to see my name up there.   I haven't been on a European Tour board for a while.   It's nice.     Don't want to get carried away, we still have two rounds of golf to play yet.   My main objective is to keep my card as soon as possible, so that's what we are trying to do.   
   
 Q.   When you say your name has not been up on The European Tour board but it's been up on plenty of Challenge Tour boards; so presumably there's a knowledge of how to keep it going when you're in that position.   
    GARY LOCKERBIE:   Yeah, I was in a strong position for quite a few events last year.   It's nice to be back and it's good fun, there will be a bit of adrenaline for the next few days but try to keep it in control and get through unscathed.  
   
 Q.   Even being involved in the tournament, being out on the range and knowing all the guys that you've played with in the past?   
    GARY LOCKERBIE:   Yeah, I sort of know most guys.   It's nice to get back into their generally friendly faces.   It's good fun.   It's good atmosphere on Tour and we love it.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT