COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 23, 2013
Gary Lockerbie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Your verdict on round one please?  
    GARY LOCKERBIE:   Yeah, very nice, steady away.   Obviously there's no wind, so conditions aren't as tricky as they normally are here, but the golf course is difficult and you've got to play well.   But I practiced very well last weekend in Abu Dhabi and I practiced well this week, so I had a sneaky feeling that things would improve for us.   
   
 Q.   And you come out to this part of the world and it's a good place to practice, isn't it, really?  
    GARY LOCKERBIE:   Yeah, doesn't really get any better to be honest; in the Arab Emirates to be practicing and playing, and the weather, you're guaranteed sun every day, there's no rain around.   And the facilities are great.   So as I say, pleased to be here and pleased to be playing better.  
   
 Q.   And if you're not in the tournament, does that make it easier to bear that the facilities and everything are so good?  
    GARY LOCKERBIE:   Well, yes and no.   It can work both ways but as I say, practiced well last week and it was probably better I missed the cut rather than making the cut and struggling around for two days.   I had some things to work on and got it sorted out and here we are.  
   
 Q.   You're never entirely certain how things are going to work for a new season?  
    GARY LOCKERBIE:   That's right, but I've done a little bit of work over the winter but we are limited at home by the weather.   
    But I played pretty well before Christmas down in South Africa, so we had a little bit of momentum going I suppose, and I worked on what I needed to do and didn't quite work out last week but the first week back is always tough.  
   
 Q.   Not your first time out, but does that mean that expectations and, I don't know, your levels change just knowing what to expect and that sort of thing?   
    GARY LOCKERBIE:   Yeah, I've been here before, so we sort of do know what to expect but the standard is getting better.   There's nor and more young guys coming out and winning, just the same as The Challenge Tour, that standard has gone up a hell of a lot since the first time I played it. I sort of know what to expect out here.   And you've got to play well, no doubt about it.   
   
 Q.   Have you ever had doubts about your ability and your ability to cope out here?   Well, we know just what a good talented player you can be?  
    GARY LOCKERBIE:   I suppose I have, the first time out, I lost my card towards the end of the year /PWH you're struggling, you really do have some doubts but did manage to get straight back on that time the following year on The Challenge Tour, so that sort of reinforces any doubts and gets rid of those feelings.   But as I say, pleased to be back.   
   
 Q.   And I ask because we have seen you play particularly well and so presumably you then have a higher bar to aim at knowing that you can achieve it?  
    GARY LOCKERBIE:   That's right, you've always got to move the bar a little higher, as you say.   And try and get there.   I've set my targets for this year already, and hopefully meet them halfway through the season and then enjoy the second half more.   
   
 Q.   Kind of targets you can share?   What's the secret?   
    GARY LOCKERBIE:   That's a secret.   
   
 Q.   The obvious, the normal, rack up some money?   
    GARY LOCKERBIE:   Yeah, get that card as soon as possible and then I'm sure the golf will improve after that, all the pressure's off.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT