THE CELTIC MANOR WALES OPEN
June 7, 2009
Gary Lockerbie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Not a bad target to set, where do you think that might end up at the end of the day, or do you think you have a bit of a squeak?  
 GARY LOCKERBIE: I would like to think I have a bit of a squeak, but I think it will come up probably a couple short at the end of the day. I'm just pleased to get around and get it in to be honest. Yesterday was quite a good round; I shot 3-over.   
  
  Q. That's about par, actually.   
 GARY LOCKERBIE: Played fine. Didn't make any putts. But to be fair, I made putt after putt on the first two days, and didn't really play that great. So, it's a funny old game.   
  
  Q. You started out tied 26th this afternoon. What was the thinking?   
 GARY LOCKERBIE: Well, I was 26th, 5-under was leading going into the final round, so obviously a lot of guys between myself and the leader, but only five shots. So if you shoot a good score on a Sunday, you're going to be there or thereabouts.   
  
  Q. That's how you felt, there really wasn't too much daylight between and you 26th.   
 GARY LOCKERBIE: Ideally to shoot a good score like that on a Sunday, you get off to a hot start, and I got off to a steady one really and brought it on pretty well.   
  
  Q. Tell us about the back nine, because you really made your score, did you not, 14 and 15, that got you moving.   
 GARY LOCKERBIE: I felt 14 really was the main part. I made a birdie on 14, which is a particularly hard hole. I know they have moved the tee a long way but it is a difficult hole. You really have got to hit that fairway. If you miss the fairway, you've got no chance whatsoever.   
 And on 15, just in the hole over there at the bottom of the slope on the right side of the green, and I knew when I stroked that shot that it wasn't going to be for away. I hit the 3-wood up there off the forward tee.   
  
  Q. Great up-and-down from the bunker at the back there. Distant look as if there's much sand?  
 GARY LOCKERBIE: It's very wet. You won't catch me missing the green right anyway.   
  
  Q. You were obviously at the score you were at, you could see that you were closing up on the leaders at that point.   
 GARY LOCKERBIE: Yeah yes, and my name appeared on the board on 16, so I knew I wasn't that far away. Hasn't been on there for a while.   
  
  Q. Just a case of hanging around and see what that does for you.   
 GARY LOCKERBIE: Yeah, I think it will wind up a couple short but you never know.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT