NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 12, 2015
Robert Covington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  ROBERT COVINGTON:   It's been a big transition.   Going from two‑a‑days and long practices to being up here.   My coach down there was telling me, "You weren't going to be down here long anyway."   He told me, "Once you get the opportunity, just go in and do what you normally do."   He said, "I know you're capable of being on the big stage." 

Q.   What was the emotion when you got the call? 
ROBERT COVINGTON:   We were contemplating for a long time what was going to happen, me and my agent.   My agent said this is a great opportunity for me to go and actually be able to play on the young roster that's rebuilding.   Actually showcase what I did all last year in the D‑League.   He told me just go in and make the best of the opportunity. 

Q.   You had the injury your senior year.   So you missed some games.   How big do you think it was to play in Portsmouth the way you did?   Add good three games there and I think that kind of opened some eyes. 
ROBERT COVINGTON:   It was a big jump for me.   There was so much speculation going on that maybe I wouldn't be able to perform.   They didn't think my knee would hold up the way it did.   There was a whole bunch everybody thought would hold me back.   I just looked at it as that's just another steppingstone now I have to overcome.   I've overcome so much in life.   That's just one more thing I have to overcome. 
I've been blessed.   I went about it the right way.   I had the right people around me helping me get through it.   And I was actually still playing really well when I came back.   So it held up really nicely. 

Q.   October 27th you're waived.   Now you're here today.   Talk about the emotion going from that to this.
ROBERT COVINGTON:   It was a lot going on.   Me and my family, we didn't know where we would end up.   It was a big speculation for it.   We didn't know where we would go, where I would end up.   If I was going to end up overseas or if I was going to end up in the D‑League or what.   There was just a whole lot to take in. 
Me being with my family, I just kept telling everybody to keep calm.   The best thing is going to happen for us.   God got a plan.   No matter what.   We can't worry what you can't control.   Everything is going to fall into place.   We've been blessed enough to fall into Philadelphia's hands. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT