WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC: 2ND ROUND POOL E
March 15, 2017
Carlos Marti
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
NETHERLANDS 14, Cuba 1   
 Q.  You lost today and in the WBC tournament.  What do you think about your play?  
CARLOS MARTI: In the second round, we had a game against Team Netherlands and Team Japan, the two teams are very high-quality baseball games.  Of course, Israel, too.  The Team Israel gave us a little bit of surprise, and we were defeated by them.   
 Q.  Yesterday, you had a long night game and the very next day, you had a day game.  Was it a tough condition for you?  
CARLOS MARTI: Well, yes, we played a day game right after the night game, but it's not an excuse.  It's not an acceptable excuse.  By all meanings, Team Netherlands played well:  Defense, offense, pitching.  And we cannot do that much.   
 Q.  As a manager of Team Cuba, what would you tell your players?  
CARLOS MARTI: Yes, including the coaches, I will tell them that the effort, I respect and I thank not only players but also coaches that we all played together and they gave all their effort.  Like I said, we made our first goal to go for the second round, so that's something we've done.  The Team Cuba is such a younger team right now, so we have to prepare for the future.   
 Q.  For the next round, the next season, what did you learn from this tournament, and what is your perspective for the future?  
CARLOS MARTI: Yes, we learned a lot.  We gained a lot for this tournament.  Such a high international tournament, we could play well, that's one thing.  And also, all the younger players, they had very a important experience for international matches.   
As Team Cuba, that's the time of innovation for new Cuban baseball team.  Therefore, the 2017 WBC, and the training camp at Korea, throughout these experiences, our younger players, they had a really nice experience.  So that could help us in the future.   
 Q.  Can you compare, you've seen the Netherlands teams over the years, and now with the major league players they have, they have gotten more experience.  How much better is this Netherlands team than teams you have seen from them in the past?  
CARLOS MARTI: Yes, I think that Team Netherlands has grown by a big margin.  Also, they have potential young players and they have a bright future and they have a good roster.  Many of them who have talent, they will have a good future for the Major League Baseball and the domestic league, too.  And also, some of the players have good experience, so these two combined makes good chemistry.  That's what I thought for Team Netherlands.   
 Q.  I think this game was the worst game of the tournament.  You changed the lineups, but it dent work.  You changed the lineup against Japan, as well.  What is the reason to change the lineup in a short time?  
CARLOS MARTI: Yes, I have nothing to say about my lineups.  Therefore, the reason why we lost this tournament, is because early in the game, Team Netherlands crushed us.  So that's why we cannot came back from that huge of an amount.  As I said before, their offense just hit hard against our pitchers, so there's nothing with the changing lineups.   
 Q.  You used a bunch of young players, for the future of the WBC, to have a good result, do you think you need to use Major League Baseball players?  I understand that there's a huge issue in between Cuba and the USA, but in the future, how do you feel about it?  
CARLOS MARTI: This is just my understanding, this is just my thought, but I think we play only domestic players for the WBC tournament.  The relations between the Cuban and the USA, this is something I should not say that much.  So therefore, in the future, we are trying to make the national team within the domestic players.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT