WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC: 2ND ROUND POOL E
March 14, 2017
Carlos Marti
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JAPAN 8, Cuba 5   
 Q.  The result was tough and your record is 0-2 for the second round.  What is in your mind right now?  
CARLOS MARTI: The ballgame was a very good game.  Both teams bat very good.  Just the one error made a big difference.  Although we were defeated, we are pleased that we played in front of the 45,000 people because all the stands and all the fans are cheering for Team Japan.  We tried everything we could do for the win, but it just didn't happen.   
 Q.  You face a pitcher, Sugano, and you scored a couple times.  It seems like your offense is swinging the bat very good.  How is your team's condition right now?  
CARLOS MARTI: Yes, well, we played in Japan -- in this tournament we played Team Japan twice and both games, our offense was very well.  Team Japan has top, high-quality players and we play very good ballgames against them.  But not only Sugano, but additionally, not only Sugano, but all the pitchers, our offense worked very well.  That's how I evaluate my offense.   
 Q.  This tournament, you play against Japan twice.  And what's the difference between the Team Japan and Team Cuba?  What's the differences of both teams from your perspective?  
CARLOS MARTI: I always say at the press conference, I think that Japan is always one of the best teams for the WBC tournament.  Japan is always a compact team.   Defense is excellent.  They have strong pitchers, and also, some of the players are very, very good and they can hit the ball always at the barrel, that's for sure.   
 Q.  Tomorrow you have another game against Netherlands.  What's in your mind for tomorrow?  
CARLOS MARTI: Yes, for tomorrow, we have a game against the Netherlands.  Still, we were defeated, an 0-2 record.  We still have a possibility to go to the semi /TPAOEUPal.  If we win against the Netherlands, we still have an opportunity to go to the playoff, so hopes never die.   
 Q.  Your offense works very well.  Your offense is a very good effort off Japanese quality pitchers.  So as I watch your offense, I feel that I have a very positive feeling.  How do you feel about it?  You changed the starting lineups.  How do you feel about changing the lineup?  
CARLOS MARTI: Yes, the reason I change the lineups, especially for the offense way, it worked very well.  Let me answer the second question first.  The offense worked very well, very nicely.  So I planned to use the same lineups for tomorrow's game.   
At Tokyo Pools, Team Cuba's condition is good.  I've been asking many times, Team Japan is always a good team, and Japan is one of the strongest teams in my opinion, so we had a very good ballgame.   
 Q.  You mentioned that you still had a possibility to go for the playoff.  If condition if you go to the playoff, the first condition is, Japan, Israel has to beat Japan.  If you have advice for Team Israel, please.  
CARLOS MARTI: Well, I have no comment for Team Japan.  Their lineups are very compact.  Pitchers, hitters, defense, they are all excellent.  So I don't have to say that much about Team Japan.  They are very good.   
 Q.  Even if you had won tonight, you were still going to have to beat Holland tomorrow, and yet you played this game obviously like it was very, very important.  Did you have any hesitation in allowing two of your relievers to go past 30 pitches and then not being able to pitch tomorrow?  
CARLOS MARTI: We still have two pitchers remaining at the roster, and they are two of the best in the Cuban league.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT