WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
January 31, 2020
Harold Varner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Obviously no big surprise here about the line of questioning. 32 consecutive pars. At what point, if at all, did you realize, I made a lot of pars?
HAROLD VARNER: Oh, yesterday. When I got done I was, like, 18 was enough. I was hoping we would just blaze the trail today. Obviously that wasn't the case to start off. Yeah, just hopefully make it to the weekend. I mean, I just haven't been playing great, so you just want to salvage those weeks when things aren't going your way. So if I could just get in the weekend and just go figure some stuff out today and I think I can still do some good work in the last two days.
Q. How is the course set up? Obviously, not necessarily bad or good given the 32 consecutive pars.
HAROLD VARNER: I think it's one of the best courses on TOUR. I've played it, this is my fifth time playing, and it's just got, kept getting better and better, and I'm just obviously excited to be here. It's a lot of fun. I still enjoy the excitement. But I think the golf course gets a little, gets put on the back burner sometimes just because of the excitement of the people, the concerts. But the course is unbelievable. It's a great, I think it's a great test of golf.
Q. And lastly, I know you said, I didn't even know they keep records of stuff like that. Can you have some fun with it when it's all said and done? It looks like you're going to be around for the weekend. Can you look back at the 32 consecutive pars, not something that they even kept a record of?
HAROLD VARNER: It's crazy. Some days you're like, Man, I could buy a par. And then some days you're like, I just hate pars. So it's funny just to be right in the middle the whole way. But it's just -- I don't know, I guess we can have fun, I'm sure my boys will be texting me something crazy, I don't even really want to look at it, honestly.
Q. And then to up-and-down the last four holes where you didn't even have a par.
HAROLD VARNER: Yeah, that's how I like it, that's fun. You get some looks, you get some opportunities, that's -- I like that a lot better. They add up the same, but...






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT