NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: DODGERS VS BREWERS
October 19, 2018
Jhoulys Chacin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  To be honest, are you pitching the first inning today?  
JHOULYS CHACIN: Maybe.  Nobody knows.   
 Q.  What do you think about that?  And kind of as a staff, how have you thought about the creative way that your team has navigated pitching throughout this postseason?  
JHOULYS CHACIN: I know what happened in the last game, Wade told me.  Look, I always say CC wants us to go 27 outs.  And if he thinks it's a better matchup for a right-hander against right-handers or lefties against Miley, whatever it is, we just want to win the game.   
And everything was going fine.  Then they scored some runs and it got away from us.  But for us, it doesn't matter how many innings you throw, how you approach the game, you just want to go out and win the game.  That's all that matters.   
 Q.  You said this is the opportunity that you wanted when you signed with the Brewers.  I'm wondering, for you to have been as durable and consistent as you've been to make every start, not miss any time, physically how are you feeling and what do you think is the biggest reason why you've been able to stay so healthy and durable all season long?  
JHOULYS CHACIN: Well, I feel fine.  I think right now you really don't feel the tiredness or anything like that.  You just want to win and keep moving forward.   
And I think I've been able to stay healthy because all the guys in the clubhouse help me.  The trainers, the strength coaches, and everybody, have helped me to keep especially my shoulder and back healthy.  Trying to go start by start, all that routine between, to keep me healthy.  And just to go, like I said, to go through the season and now to the playoff, I think that they have really helped a lot, that's why I've been healthy the whole year.   
 Q.  Just a follow-up, what would it mean to you if you guys get to a Game 7 to play a part in the Brewers having an opportunity to go to the World Series, based on where you were this offseason and getting the contract that you got?  
JHOULYS CHACIN: It would be an honor for me to pitch in Game 7.  I think it's way more than what I dream about.  And just to think about it, just blow my mind away.  And I really don't think about tomorrow; I think about today.  You never know if I'm pitching today.  I don't know if I'm pitching today.  But just to think about like pitch Wade today and be in the game tomorrow is something that -- like I said, just I can't think about it.  I just want to wait to tomorrow and see how I feel and see how everything just get together.   
But it's something that, like I said, something that I always want to do, and to be pitching in October is even more -- even more -- something -- I guess I can't explain.  But, like I said, just want us to win today and then think about tomorrow.   
 Q.  Runs have been so hard to come by in this series for both teams.  Did you envision, when you go back and think about how you saw the series, did you think it was going to be like this, where the pitching would almost totally dominate?  Their bullpen is not giving up much at all.  You look at the other League and there's all kinds of runs being scored over there, of course they have DH.  Did you envision it being like this?  
JHOULYS CHACIN: Well, I watch on the TV and always see the -- they always pitch the main guys in every game.  And for the teams to score runs has always been tough.  If a guy makes good pitches, he'd have to make -- the hitter has to get good pitches.  And from us, from the pitching, we always want to make good pitches and try to -- to them to be good pitches.   
But you never know how this sort series goes.  It could be like other rounds, but hopefully from today we start getting a lot of runs and start to score early.  I think that's when we score early, we just chip away, one run here, one run there, in the game with the bullpen we have.  The other bullpen has done really well.  They shut us down, especially in that fourth game, we played 13 innings.   
But we only can do to try to keep the game there, try to give it one more chance for our hitters and hopefully we score runs, early or late in the game, whatever it is, just score more runs than them.   
 Q.  If you were asked to pitch tonight, when was the last time you came out of the bullpen?  Is that something you've ever done?  
JHOULYS CHACIN: Yeah, I did it in 2016 when I played Anaheim for like two months or so.  And just I'll be ready for the first inning.  I don't know if Counsell will tell me that I'm going out to the bullpen in the first inning, but I'm going to be ready for today at any point of the game.  We've got to win today.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT