NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: DODGERS VS BREWERS
October 15, 2018
Orlando Arcia
Jhoulys Chacin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Milwaukee - 4, Los Angeles - 0   
 Q.  Orlando, I figure we could continue that conversation with you.  You were optioned twice this year, what was that journey like for you and what's it like to have an October like you've had?  
ORLANDO ARCIA: Every player is going to have their ups and downs, and this year was definitely a lot of downs for me and things weren't going my way so they sent me down.  I was able to work on stuff, recognize pitches, and especially breaking balls.  And now I do my adjustments and things have been working better and now we're up here in the playoffs.   
 Q.  How important was your slider tonight and also staying out of the fastball counts for the most part that they like and when you got in them you were able to get the strikes on sliders and other pitches?  How important was that for you?  
JHOULYS CHACIN: My slider was very important for me.  I think today, I know my slider was good.  But I think my fastball command was the thing that made my slider better.   
So I remember two months ago that was my problem, the command was getting behind in the counts a lot and have to come to the plate a lot.  So today I just made good pitches on my slider and then they have to go for it, and make chase when I have to, I think that was the key.   
 Q.  The two plays, slides into second base from Machado, did you feel there was anything dirty about those two slides?  
ORLANDO ARCIA: On the first one I didn't think there was anything wrong.  On the second one definitely felt a little more, he grabbed my knee towards the end, that's when I turned around and said something to the umpire.  And I looked over to the dugout and thankfully in the dugout they noticed, and some guys on the video room noticed it, too, and challenged it.   
 Q.  What's it like to prepare for a start knowing that no matter how well you pitch you probably aren't going to go 7 innings, they're going to take you out because of your bullpen, that happens throughout baseball now.  How different is that from when you came up and you would prepare for going eight or nine innings, how different is the preparation?  
JHOULYS CHACIN: I don't change my preparation, I always try to think that I'm going to pitch as long as I can, as long as they want me to pitch.   
In playoffs you go hitter by hitter.  You don't think about the fifth or sixth; you go for the first guy and try to make pitches.  And that's been my mindset the last four or five games, be more like playoff games, my last four or five games.  And go hitter by hitter, try to make pitches and keep my team in the game and give my team a chance to win.  That's all I've been going.   
It doesn't matter who is the hero, if it's going to be Orlando or Braun or the bullpen.  It doesn't matter who does the job; unless we do the job and win the game, that's all that cares.   
 Q.  You just touched on it, but your two playoff games you've pitched incredibly well.  You can pretend like it's a playoff game, but the way you played for the first two games, how have you composed yourself and pitched well?  
JHOULYS CHACIN: Well, I've been ready for this for almost ten years.  And just really grateful that I had a chance to pitch in the playoff.  And just want to do my job.  I just want to go out and give my team a chance to win the game.  It doesn't matter how many I pitch.  Just go out and maybe that's why I'm having results the first two games, I just always -- like I say, always thankful that I got a chance.   
And in '14 I got a back, shoulder injury, and didn't know if I was going to come back and pitch a game.  And thank god that I got a chance, I get better.  And now just enjoy my -- this part of my career, enjoy pitching in the playoff, and with a really good team.  And hopefully I got a chance to be in the World Series.   
 Q.  Orlando, can you share any reactions from the teammates or coaches about the pitch that you hit from Buehler?  It looked like you went up and out of the zone to hit that ball and just what was your approach against him?  
ORLANDO ARCIA: I mean that was the third at-bat against him, and he's pitched me the same sequence, he started with breaking balls early.  I was looking for a fastball that I could put a good contact on it and thankfully I was able to get it and put a good drive towards it.   
 Q.  You talked about getting better with your approach after you came back up.  How do you explain the home runs?  That's three of them in the playoffs after just three in the regular season, how do you explain the power now?  
ORLANDO ARCIA: I mean the main focus is just getting my foot down, getting loaded early and being able to recognize pitches.  And I think that's what I've been able to do, and everything just takes care of itself.   
 Q.  You've spent most of your career in the National League West.  I'm just wondering that your familiarity with the Dodgers and familiarity with pitching in this stadium, how much of that was helpful to you today?  
JHOULYS CHACIN: It really helped me.  I pitched last year with San Diego, and we came here a lot of times.  And I know here the fans get loud and they always in the game.  They're never out of the game.  I just tried to maintain my focus.  And I know how -- I know here how the ball move.  I kind of know where to throw the ball.  And just like I say again, keep my focus where I need to throw the ball.  And I think that's why I got good results today.   
Like I said before, my last game here I didn't have any command on my pitches.  And I got in trouble.  And they got a really good lineup.  They're a good team.  If you get behind it's tougher on you.  Today I was just go out and just try and make some pitches, that's what it was.  And like I said, that's why I got a good result today.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT