NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: DODGERS VS BREWERS
October 13, 2018
Jhoulys Chacin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Jhoulys, quite often this year, especially down the stretch, starting pitchers have not been allowed to go past five innings, sometimes not past four, sometimes not past three.  What's that been like?  Sometimes you get taken out.  I know you in particular in September, you were throwing a one-hitter, a two-hitter and you still come out.  It just seems that that's the formula.  Is that an adjustment for pitchers, because you guys always tell us, oh, I'd like to go deep in the game, but rarely do you get the chance to.
JHOULYS CHACIN: Well, no, I'm just trying to give my team the most innings I can.  Whenever Counsell wants to take you out, you just have to give the ball to the bullpen, especially with the bullpen that we have.  And our mindset is just trying to get 27 outs and trying to win the ballgame.  So we don't think about we have to go deep in the games.  You really want to go deep in the game, but at the same time, you just want to put your team in the best position to win the ballgame.  And I think the bullpen that we have makes it easy for Counsell and for the team.
Q. This year you've enjoyed a lot of great success.  How important has communication been with your catchers, and how have you seen your communication with catchers evolve over your career?
JHOULYS CHACIN: Well, they've been doing great, especially calling games.  They're doing a really good job in blocking balls, too.  They've been also getting good hits and being on base.  And I really appreciate what they've been doing for us.  They're catching five, six different pitchers every game, and I think it's not easy to do, and especially in this kind of situation, the playoff.
And I'm just happy that they're both having a good postseason.  I know what they have been through before, and I think they're just having fun, man.  Like I say, I'm happy that they're contributing to the team and they're doing really good for themselves, too.
Q. Used to be when you come back from a serious shoulder injury that the odds are you're not the same pitcher, but now, obviously you've had such a prominent role in this Brewers rotation.  What does it mean for you to be able to rebound back the way you have and what was that process like for you?
JHOULYS CHACIN: It means a lot, especially last year, San Diego gave me the opportunity to start a big game, try to show that I'm healthy again.  And this year -- well, the next two years, the Brewers gave me the chance to pitch in the playoffs.  That was my dream, trying to pitch in the playoffs, and I think Milwaukee was the right place to do that.  I can't be more happy right now.  I'm going to have a chance to pitch -- I already pitched one game in the playoffs.  But have a chance to pitch one more game, maybe two, and hopefully pitch in the World Series, that's something that I always dreamed about.
And like you said, I had some shoulder problems that you never know if I was going to pitch again.  And now being in this situation, I just thank God for the opportunity and also the Brewers for believing in me.
Q. Where does Dodger Stadium rank in your list of favorite visiting parks to pitch in?
JHOULYS CHACIN: I mean, I pitched against the Dodgers.  I mean, I don't know if they're the team that I've faced the most in my career, but I pitched there a lot of times.  And I know this year it wasn't my best game there, but during the season you got one or two bad games.  And bad luck once there this year, and I know people might talk about that a lot.  But I'm just going to go out, just try to give my team a chance to win the game and just have fun.
And just my career, I just want to go out and have fun, try to get people out, and just however many innings that Counsell wants me to throw, that's what I'm going to do.
Q. You use your slider a lot more this year, and I know it's a really good pitch for you.  What sort of went into that decision to use it more and why is it such an effective weapon?
JHOULYS CHACIN: Well, everything started off last year, and people in San Diego talking about throwing my slider, doing more to lefties.  And after that, I started working on that, throwing my slider more to lefties, and I get comfortable with it.  And after that I started changing location, go backdoor, go back foot.  And then I changed velocity, too.
Like I said, I get comfortable with that.  I mean, just change velocity, change arm angles.  And like make one pitch and three different pitches, and I got good results last year.  And when I got here, they just told me the same thing, just keep what you were doing last year, and then I was just working on my change a little bit, but always my slider has been my big pitch.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT