U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 6, 2005
Alison Whitaker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








RHONDA GLENN:  What is your reaction to the match today?
ALISON WHITAKER:  Maru played really well.  She didn't make any mistakes.  You know, she just kept burning the flag all day really and holing a lot of putts.  And every time I kind of tried to force the play or make something happening, it kind of turned bad on me.  So, yeah, it was one of those days.
Q.  On the back, we watch a couple 3 , 4  and 5 footers that didn't go in a couple holes in a row; that snuck up on you?
ALISON WHITAKER:  I think my first putts were letting me down on a few holes, and that can go right back to the tee shot on a lot of those holes, not putting it in the right spot.  A lot of these courses are really dependent on placing the ball and that was something that I really struggled with today.

I made a few putts on the first 11 holes and then Maru, they just kept going in.
RHONDA GLENN:  Did you hit a lot of greens?
ALISON WHITAKER:  Not as many as I usually do.  That's usually one of my best stats, but today kind of let me down a little bit.  Put a lot of pressure on my putting which held up the first few holes.  Yeah, when you're relying on 10 footers for par, it's hard.
Q.  Do you think you'll do a summer tour next year?
ALISON WHITAKER:  Yeah, definitely.  I don't have to qualify.  I'm happy about that.
Q.  You have a two year exemption.
ALISON WHITAKER:  Really?  Well, yeah, I'll be coming back.  I might have a bit of a look at Europe, as well, because I want to play in the British Amateur, and I want to have a crack at the non English speaking countries, a bit of a change over there.
Q.  What else are you playing over there?
ALISON WHITAKER:  Just the British.
Q.  What else would you play?
ALISON WHITAKER:  What else would I play?  They usually have the French Stroke Play at the same time as the British Amateur and it worked out really good for the girls that went over last year, their tournament schedule was really smart.  This next year, hopefully I'll be able to come over to Europe and then come over here again.
Q.  Are there any other events in the States that you would like to play in?
ALISON WHITAKER:  Well, coming over to this, I'll probably play the North and South next year because I have to get home for training and things like that next week.  Puts a little bit more pressure on me to get home, but I think if I plan to do that, it may be more accepted.
Q.  This is your first USGA event and you get to the semis; talk about that.
ALISON WHITAKER:  Well, I have to say that the day where I played Amanda and Ryann, those were big days for me, just how I look at myself out on the golf course.  And they are probably two of the best    Amanda holing a few big putts for birdies and then just going the extra holes, that gave me a nice little boost.  You know, just knowing that you can do it and you don't necessarily have to be No. 1, that's the key for me this week.
Q.  Have there been many Australians that have come over here recently on the American tour?
ALISON WHITAKER:  The girls, there was a group of three or four girls that came over last year and played I think three or four played in this event as well or they qualified and then turned pro.  There's generally two or three people coming each year, and it's sort of a new crowd this year, but I'll be back next year.
RHONDA GLENN:  Of course Jan Stephenson led the way.  Do you know Jan at all?
ALISON WHITAKER:  I don't know her personally.  She was quite prominent in amateur golf she went pro, so a lot of the girls were able to gauge themselves against her before she turned pro.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT