NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: METS v BRAVES
October 19, 1999
Bobby Cox
Gerald Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Gerald, how does it feel to get a chance to play against the Yankees and your old
pal Derek?

GERALD WILLIAMS: Well, it feels good to be in the World Series. It's good to play
against old friends.

Q. How low did the team get after the five-run lead was dissipated? Could you sense any
reaction along the bench when you were at 8-8 and then down 9-8?

GERALD WILLIAMS: Well, it was a situation where we knew we lost the lead, but we didn't
lose the game. We had to make sure we got guys in scoring position and drive the guys in
whenever they did get in scoring position. But as far as us ever giving up or losing
spirit or anything like that, no, that's not what this game is about. It's about making
the adjustments.

Q. Earlier this week -- or maybe it was last week, it runs together -- Bobby Cox said
that you've been a pleasant surprise. When he first traded for you, they thought of you as
a fourth outfielder or platoon player, but you've proven you're an every day player. How
do you feel about that? This was a breakout year for you in that regard?

GERALD WILLIAMS: Well, it's just a situation where a lot of times people put labels on
you. But I think labels are just what they are. You have to have opportunities to play,
and I've been granted that and I've made good on those opportunities. I'm just thankful
for the fact that they saw fit to put me in the line-up.

Q. Gerald, what were you feeling when you crossed the plate with the winning run?

GERALD WILLIAMS: Well, I was trying to make sure I didn't take wings.

Q. What exactly does that mean?

GERALD WILLIAMS: To whom? It's just a situation where you are totally happy and you
feel like you can almost fly. And I wanted to make sure I stayed on the ground, because
sometimes I have to talk to my nieces and nephews, and I tell them -- it wouldn't look too
smart of me to take wings; pound if you are on the ground.

Q. Gerald, could you talk about what it was like being out there and just seeing these
guys coming back again and again and again?

GERALD WILLIAMS: Well, that's what baseball is all about. You just never know when
you're going to be down, and you don't know when you're going to be up, but you have to
make sure that you do the things that are necessary to continue to compete every inning.

Q. When did you think you had it won, Bobby?

BOBBY COX: I thought we had a pretty good crack at it in the first inning, but it got a
little hairy later on. It was an amazing game, because we had held their hitters so well
the entire playoff, and almost the entire season. And they held our hitters in check, too.
And all of a sudden, they had nothing but line drives. I thought Millwood was throwing
good. He wasn't tired, but he was really getting hit. And Smoltzy was throwing harder than
he's ever thrown in his life. And he had two innings in his life. I was only going to use
him one and Remlinger in the 8th. I guess we didn't have a chance actually to set the
hitters up much. They had a lot of fastballs.

Q. Bobby, could you just comment on the last two games and maybe rate them, or at least
put them in perspective for us, how great they were in your estimation? 

BOBBY COX: Well, I think National League baseball is just terrific for the fans, and
really, the writers and everybody connected to the media. It was as tough a ballgame as
you ever want to be involved in. Sunday's game was low-scoring, two runs, and that was it,
and for 15 innings. And today, we jumped out of the chute with five right away. With Kevin
Millwood, you might think they would get one or two. But the Mets can hit. They're one of
the best-hitting teams in all of baseball, and they finally caught up with us. They made
it really tough.

Q. What do you take out of this series, going into the World Series, about where your
club is, how the pitching is set up, how everybody is playing?

BOBBY COX: I haven't even thought about the pitching yet. And I know we have a good
ballclub, pitching-wise, hitting-wise. We hit the ball -- we scored a lot of runs this
year, and we can score runs, and we're a good base-running team. We've got a good
ballclub. Hopefully, we're going to play well against them.

Q. Bobby, were you concerned with the after effects of that last game, were you
surprised at all how you responded?

BOBBY COX: Well, you certainly didn't want to lose one like we did on Sunday. You play
15 innings, finally get the lead. But that's the nature of the game. That can happen
anytime. No, once this game starts or you start having batting practice, everything is
forgotten. But games stay with you for a while, there's no doubt about that.

Q. Bobby, have you had two games in succession where you had to make as many important
decisions as these last two? First of all you got, what, 8 extra innings?

BOBBY COX: Well, both Bobby Valentine and I, we used everybody in both games. I don't
know if that's fun or not, but you just make your moves and you hope they work out. I
think Bobby did a great job with their club, and our club responded well for our hometown
fans. Eddie was MVP of the series, and he certainly is well-deserving of that award. It's
guys like Eddie that made our team go this year; guys that weren't full-timers got a
chance to get in there and do it. I told myself to be ready and look for a good pitch to
hit. That's what I tried to do, tried to hit the ball hard somewhere. But I don't change
anything.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT