NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: METS v BRAVES
October 12, 1999
Bobby Cox
Eddie Perez
Gerald Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Bobby, just talk about Walt's performance, how you put him in the line-up and for
him to come through that way?
 
 BOBBY COX: Well, it was kind of a story book performance, really. He had two big hits;
I think he had three for the night. And didn't have a lot of chances in the field, but we
all know he can catch the ball, and it was terrific to see him do that. He's only played
sporadically for the last month and a half or so. He had a great night. Came at a good
time. 
 
Q. Bobby, how important is it for you to get the kind of production that Gerald gives
you leading off and Bret starting to hit in the No. 2 hole?
 
 BOBBY COX: You can't imagine what it does for your ballclub to have Gerald leading off.
Since he got in the line-up and started playing every day, we were a different ballclub.
He got us going, to be honest with you. We talk about Chipper a lot and Jordan a lot, some
of the other guys, but Gerald Williams is the guy that really got the club moving. 
 
Q. Bobby, you've been in this position so many times, how important do you feel it is
to establish a tone for the series in the first game?
 
 BOBBY COX: Maddux really had a good night. Chipper catches the double-play ball
cleanly, I think broke Piazza's bat, and I think it affected him a little bit. He doesn't
give up many runs. I thought he threw a great ballgame. It's better to win the first game.
It's more important, I guess, in a three-out-of-five series than four-out-of-seven, but I
like to win the first one. I'd rather win it than lose it, that's for sure. 
 
Q. Eddie, do you feel like you're still developing or maturing as a hitter? You've
played so little in your career up to this point, it seems like you're hitting the ball
with a lot more confidence these days?
 
 EDDIE PEREZ: You know, last year I put up good numbers. This year, I don't think I'm
doing the job I want to do at hitting, but I'm concentrating more; and catching, because
we've got a good pitching staff, and that's what I'm trying to do, when it's time to hit I
hit. But I don't think I've been doing the job this year that I want to do. Right now,
we're in the playoffs; hopefully everything will change. 
 
Q. Gerald, can you talk about how you were in the lead-off, how that happened and how
that evolved?
 
 GERALD WILLIAMS: I'll take the question, but I think that's one for Mr. Cox. It's just
a situation whenever I got into the line-up, I was just trying to establish a rhythm for
my teammates, which was basically to get on base any way that I could. And sometimes,
fortunately, I get on. 
 
Q. Bobby, Jose Hernandez was 5 for 7 during the season. Why did you start Weiss over
him?
 
 BOBBY COX: I knew that, too. And we used that some, but that's not the number one thing
we look at all the time. Jose has done a great job for us since we got him. Walt is really
a slick-fielding shortstop; I'm not saying he's that much better than the other guy. But
Maddux tends to get a lot of ground balls, and Don Baylor has done a good job with Walt.
Lately, he's been hitting the ball better. In BP he drives the ball better, and he had
three tonight. 
 
Q. Will Walt start tomorrow?
 
 BOBBY COX: I'll make the line-up out tomorrow.  
 
Q. Eddie, how does this home run compare with the grand slam you had against the Cubs
when you and Greg also won a big game?
 
 EDDIE PEREZ: Last year was in the first round; so this is in the second round. And this
is a lot better, and especially against the pitcher who was throwing -- I was like 0 for
100 against that guy, and finally got a hit, and it was a good one. It was very good. I
think when he was pitching, we need one more run, and he was ready for everything; and
then they brought out Rocker, and that was the game there. 
 
Q. Eddie, did you guys anticipate the squeeze with Yoshii at the plate, and if you did,
can you talk about how that at-bat kind of came around?
 
 EDDIE PEREZ: We were looking for that squeeze, but not in that situation. I think it
was right down the middle. I don't know how he missed it. We were looking for that squeeze
in the first pitch; that's why we threw the fastball in, and then the slider. And that
pitch was right in the middle, and he missed it. 
 
Q. Eddie, what's the condition of Javy's knee?
 
 EDDIE PEREZ: I don't know. He's doing really good. 
 
Q. Eddie, do you regard yourself as a back-up catcher or are you the No. 1 catcher? 
 
 EDDIE PEREZ: I'm still the back-up catcher, I'm just doing the job because Javy is not
here; that's why I'm back-up catching. But I think my knee is worse than Javy's knees. 
 
Q. Eddie, did you see where the back-up catcher for the Mets hit the home run that put
them here?
 
 EDDIE PEREZ: That doesn't surprise me. He's a good hitter. He's a gamer. He always does
the little things to win the games. And I've been playing against him since the Minor
Leagues. Even in the Venezuelan League I played with him. That's why we're here, to be
ready when starting catchers are not able to play or getting hurt or something. That's
what we're waiting for. 
 
Q. Eddie, is this an inspiration to starting catchers everywhere that Todd Pratt and
Eddie Lopez --
 
 EDDIE PEREZ: We might be playing somewhere else, if we're not on this team right now.
They got Piazza -- Javy, he's going to be here a couple more years. And hopefully -- I
don't want to get out of here. I want to be with the Braves, even as back-up catcher,
because they're going to be in the playoff for years, hopefully. 
 
Q. I apologize if this was asked before. Eddie, what pitch did you hit for the home
run, and it looked like you kind of did a little jump as you left the batter's box. Were
you excited, you knew it was gone?
 
 EDDIE PEREZ: I think it was a slider, and that was a hanger slider, and I hit it very
good. But when I saw Rickey Henderson run to get the ball, I got a little scared. I hit it
good, and I knew it was going, but I hit it in the good part of the bat. And I never hit
against that guy before, and I got a hit today. 
 
Q. Gerald, you and Brent Boone both went back up the middle to start the game, was that
a conscious effort, or were you hitting it where it was pitched? And also, it seemed to be
the wind might have taken a couple of balls off you and Rickey Henderson, seemed like you
had a problem with the wind swirling up there?
 
 GERALD WILLIAMS: Well, allow me to take the second one first. The wind was a factor.
The ball was swirling at times, and we did the best job we possibly could do at the time,
because you never know what the ball is going to do. And Bret and I talked about staying
inside the ball and making sure we didn't roll over and get out too fast with our bats, so
to speak; so we didn't roll over to third base. And fortunately, it worked out for us
today. 
 
Q. Gerald, first-pitch hitting on your first three at-bats, what did you know or what
you did see to give you that kind of a confidence?
 
 GERALD WILLIAMS: The baseball. Well, basically, I was looking for the job out over the
plate, and the guys threw me strikes. So I pretty much got a strike and I got out of
there. 
 
Q. Gerald, I heard you refer to your manager as "Mr. Cox" before, is that how
you actually think of him?
 
 GERALD WILLIAMS: Always. I just give him major respect, because he deserves it. 
 
Q. You'll never call him Bobby, you'll always call him Mr. Cox?
 
 GERALD WILLIAMS: My intention is to always call him Mr. Cox. 
 
Q. Are there any of your teammates who also call him Mr. Cox?
 
 EDDIE PEREZ: We call him Bob. 
 GERALD WILLIAMS: Well, I'm not really sure what the other guys call him all the time.
But I just try to stay with my plan, which is to just call him Mr. Cox. It works. 
 
Q. Gerald, have you had other managers that you've called with the surname?
 
 GERALD WILLIAMS: Yes. I call all the managers "Mister," because I think they
deserve that respect.  
 
Q. Eddie, how important was it to win Game 1?
 
 EDDIE PEREZ: Looking back, last year, the Padres won the first game, and they won
everything. And then the Marlins two years ago won the first game, and they won
everything. So we lost the first game against Houston, and I still believed in my team
that we were still going to get through the first round. Winning the first one is going to
be easier, even with a seven-game series or five-game series. So let's see tomorrow. We've
got our best pitcher tomorrow, and we'll see what happens. 
 
Q. Gerald, not that you'd ever change your approach in the middle of the swing, did you
notice the middle infielders charging, did that surprise you? Did you change the swing?
 
 GERALD WILLIAMS: For me, I don't lose my focus. They've done that in the past before.
That's something that the Mets do from time to time. But for me, what I'm trying to do is
get a pitch to hit, center it, and hopefully, drive the ball hard enough where they don't
catch it. 
 
Q. Eddie, you mentioned that first loss to Houston, how was Greg more effective?
 
 EDDIE PEREZ: He was very good today, especially against the Mets, because the last time
he pitched against them, he got beat very bad. And I told him today, that day -- they were
swinging the bat very good, every time. So I told him: We've got to throw some balls,
because they're ready to swing again. He got his sinker today, and that's what we needed.
That's what he used the most, sinker inside and outside. 
 
Q. Eddie, was the strike zone any different tonight than it was in the first game in
the Houston series?
 
 EDDIE PEREZ: No, no, I don't think so. The umpire we got today, to me, was one of best
umpires, and he was calling the ball good today. He like to call strike. He like to call
every close pitch a strike. That's what we like, because it's a quick game. 
 
Q. Eddie, Rocker throws the first pitch on the scoreboard at 96. The second pitch is at
81. What's the second pitch, is that a change --
 
 EDDIE PEREZ: Slider. 
 
Q. That much difference?
 
 EDDIE PEREZ: Yes, that's why he swung like that. 
 
Q. The next one is also 80, is that also --
 
 EDDIE PEREZ: A slider. And after those two strikes, he throw only one fast one; it was
a ball. And then we keep throwing a slider, because Ordonez, he's a good hitter because he
puts the ball in play every time, and it's hard to strike him out. So Rocker's best pitch
is a slider. That's the only pitch he was throwing for Walt. So I was keep calling them.
He hit them good. 
 
Q. Eddie, there was a bunt play where you made a good heads up -- it wasn't a bunt, a
swinger down the third baseline. Were you thinking of letting it roll, or were you going
to get it right away?
 
 EDDIE PEREZ: Yeah, I saw it rolling, and it was staying right in the line. So then
Maddux was going, "Get him, get him, throw to first"; and I don't make that good
throw, and I don't even look to third. I heard -- Doug was saying, "Throw to
first," and that's what I did, catch him and throw to first. And that was a big play
right there. 
 
Q. Eddie, what was the crowd reaction like, they started chanting "Eddie"?
 
 EDDIE PEREZ: That's the easiest name for them to say. But I've been feeling -- they've
been doing great, compared for years ago. They've been quiet the last two years, but the
first series against the Mets was like two or three weeks ago. They've been doing -- I
wasn't expecting them like that. But they get into the game and that's what we need,
because everywhere we go, their fans, they're going crazy. And our fans are going crazy
right now, that's what we need. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT