DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 24, 2020
Philipp Kohlschreiber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
P. KOHLSCHREIBER/M. Safwat   
4-6, 6-4, 6-0   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Good finish. What about the end of the first set? You let it get away.  
PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER: Yeah, I think I missed too many opportunities in the first set. Well, he won the big points, served quite well on the breakpoints. I think I gave him too many easy mistakes. I was in quite a, yeah, good position many times, but I missed quite easy shots.   
I was not unhappy with my game, but this took away a little bit of my confidence. I played too safe. He stepped it up and played aggressive, especially in the last game, 5-4. He was returning very well. He took the chances to play aggressive.   
 Q.  Did you know much about him entering the match?  
PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER: I mean, you can watch now some videos. I saw him couple of times now. I was not very much familiar. With all the info you get in the Internet, it was quite good to see what his game plan is.   
 Q.  What did you make of how he was playing?  
PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER: I think he played very good. He is a player with a high intensity of game. He's of moving around very well. His forehand is a good weapon. I think he served also very well. I think the stats in the first set was close to 78% first serve.   
Yeah, he's a good guy, improved a lot. Unfortunately I think he injured himself a little bit. Still a little bit in the third set I felt he's still running very well. After I broke him, maybe the injury got too much in his head.   
 Q.  You plan on playing Davis Cup?  
PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER: Yes.   
 Q.  How do you see the tie?  
PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER: It's always nice to play for your country. I mean, I want to be always honest. I asked not to play because my ranking is bad, the Olympic let's say it's the main goal for this year. If I have the chance, it's going to be my last Olympic Games.   
I wanted to play somewhere else. Yeah, they asked me to come so I had to consider it a second time. Like I said, it's always an honor to play for the country, but sometimes it will also help that you could do maybe your own plannings.   
 Q.  How big of a goal is it for the team to make it to Madrid?  
PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER: That's the goal. It's still Davis Cup. It's still the cup you play for your country. Not everything is always perfect. I think still we have a tie at home. We have still the old atmosphere at home. I think could also be one of my last Davis Cups, so I can really enjoy I hope. I'm always nervous, but I try to enjoy.   
Yeah, I'm looking forward for that. I hope I can help the team. We can also hopefully qualify to Madrid. That's the main goal. We're all ready.   
 Q.  A few words on Struff, how he's taken the role in the team.  
PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER: Struffy is an amazing team player. He loves the Davis Cup. He's always 100% committed. I think the one or two ties he missed, he was sick lying in the hotel, but he was there.   
He's a great guy. Always good to practice. He brings a lot of energy. Very positive guy. Yeah, still he's very strong in singles, but also if something happens he's also very good doubles player so he's very important for the team.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT