BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 14, 2018
Philipp Kohlschreiber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
P. KOHLSCHREIBER/P. Herbert   
6-4, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  At the start of the year, I know you had, like, three events that were quite tough at the start of the year.  What started to fire up for you now?  
PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER: Well, that's a good question.  I was a little bit sick in Australia.  Didn't feel healthy.  I mean, so I was not at 100% in the beginning of the year.  Came back.  I think I did -- I raised my level in Rotterdam already, but only one round to win, and then Roger came, you know.   
And then, of course, you miss a little bit of confidence, and I think that was the case in Dubai when I think played also good match, and Tsitsipas is a tough opponent.  I would say if I would be a little more confident that day I might win.  I thought I had good control over the match, but losing in three sets, as well.   
But I felt like the level of tennis I played in the past weeks got better and better, and, okay, then luckily here all come together.  I like the conditions.  I like the weather.  I think I played some good tennis here already in the past, so I know it could be a good tournament for me.   
 Q.  When you see an event like this that's missing a number of players for various reasons, do you come into a tournament thinking this is a great opportunity?  
PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER: Well, maybe not especially in this year, in this case, when I came with not too many wins this year.   
But of course I would say we can expect also in the future that in a slam or in a really good or big event that there might be a few guys for some upsets or achieving a great result.   
I think, like, the last years you had always Djokovic, Murray, Rafa, and Roger.  They are so consistent they almost -- maybe one of them lost earlier in the quarters.  And the rest, they always achieve semifinals or better.  So you knew if you faced them, it's going to be very tough.   
I think that changed for me a little bit.  I think behind Roger you can beat more guys than Murray or Djokovic.  Still they are great.  Like Marin is great.  But I think is -- yeah, it's a little bit difference between Novak or him, you know.  I think it's tougher to beat Novak than Marin, in my opinion.   
 Q.  Did you say Marin?  
PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER: Marin Cilic.   
 Q.  I didn't know if you said Marin or Murray.  
PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER: No.  Marin.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT