BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 13, 2018
Philipp Kohlschreiber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
P. KOHLSCHREIBER/M. Cilic   
6-4, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Good win.  Just talk about some of the things you thought worked best for you today.  
PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER: Yeah, very happy.  I think my performance worked quite well from the start.  I felt like Marin was maybe a bit nervous.   
Yeah, I felt good.  Played aggressive.  I think the crucial moments or the big points I could, yeah, put on my side.  I think that was also the key factor that it was a two-set win.   
 Q.  Obviously you're having a good run at this tournament.  Did you suspect you would be playing this great coming in?  
PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER: No, not really.  I mean, my first match was a really tough battle with my opponent, with myself.  And, yeah, I struggled a little bit more.  Today, I tried to forget everything what happened.   
We practiced in the off-day very hard on a few things.  Happy that it worked out.  It's also an easier match, you know, nothing to lose, big stadium, a lot of support from the crowd, makes it maybe sometimes easier to play.   
On the other side, I really enjoy playing tennis still, even though if I'm sometimes not at my best.  But, yeah, very happy that it worked out today very well.   
 Q.  It was a typical big guy/smaller guy matchup.  What do you do in those occasions?  So many players are getting taller now.  
PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER: It's not changing too much.  I mean, the only thing what is different is that the serve from Marin is bouncing a bit higher, so you have to adjust your returning position.   
The rest in the game, you know, the big guys, they are not the greatest movers.  So I think I did a pretty good job today moving around, playing aggressive, and taking the ball a little bit earlier, so taking away the time.   
Yeah, worked out pretty well.   
 Q.  Are there any things you do to kind of maximize your own strengths, given that you're not among the biggest guys?  What do you do to maximize your strengths, given that you're not amongst the biggest guys?  
PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER: Well, I think that -- I know that I'm very good baseline player.  I have no real huge weakness.   
So I'm moving well.  I can play aggressive tennis from both sides.  I'm working a lot with spin, with topspin.  So I know that if I get the right height to certain players, I know that's the weaker side from them.   
So I would say my overall game fits almost every opponent.  Of course sometimes you don't put everything together, but overall, I think I played some great tennis matches against everybody in the world.   
And, yeah, also today I think Marin didn't play bad, but on the other side, I think I did just a few things just a little bit better, bringing some returns better to his side and few little things.   
 Q.  One Davis Cup question.  I assume you're aware of the changes that are being talked about.  What do you think?  
PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER: Which changes?   
 Q.  Switching to a one-week tournament with 16 countries.  
PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER: Yeah.  Well, you always can argue in every way.  You know, take away the historical part.  Creating something new is maybe something positive.   
But I don't know if it's really affecting me.  I don't know when they want to proceed with this new idea.  I'm 34.  My end of Davis Cup career is closer than maybe the decision is made.  So, yeah, let's see what they bring up.   
 Q.  So no opinion?  
PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER: Not really.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT