DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 2, 2017
Philipp Kohlschreiber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. MURRAY/P. Kohlschreiber
6-7, 7-6, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. That must be very disappointing to lose that one.
PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER: Of course losing is always disappointing, but I'm not sad.  I think I played great tennis, one of my best matches.
Okay, the result is sad, but the way I played, the way I enjoyed myself on the court, nothing to be sad about.
Q. Is that the best you have ever played, certainly against a top player?
PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER: Maybe, maybe.  I mean, the first two sets, I think also Andy played -- I hope he will say that -- a really good match.  I think we both played almost the best tennis we can play, I guess.
Of course, you will always find, oh, this one, this one, and overall I think it was a very great match.  Well-deserved, he's a great fighter, he never gave up.
Yeah, you can be thinking about one, two shots.  I don't know.  Was just a great match, and I think the end with the spectators showed that everybody's had a really great day.
Q. While you were in the middle of the match, are you aware how good it is?  I mean, can you actually enjoy it as you're playing?
PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER: Yeah.  Well, I think I have two ways of my game.  You know, one is, like, the fighting spirit, playing a lot of topspin, running a lot.  So far I was -- I beat some of the big guys, but obviously I lost more of them, so I tried to be more aggressive today, to show also that I worked in the preseason on my forehand, more firepower.
Of course, I could serve maybe a little bit better if I want to find something, but he's also one of or "the" best returner, so it's like that.
Q. The seven match points that you had, was there anything you could have done to just grab that last point?
PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER: Yeah, like I said, I think I had one maybe easy backhand I missed down the line.  Maybe I was holding back a little bit.  Maybe I should go on crosscourt.  Maybe, maybe, maybe.  You know, I didn't make it.
But I also served in the crucial moments and in that tiebreaker also big.  He played his best tennis there.  So of course I have to analyze that kind of match.  But also, I think only in a good way.  How I played the forehand, how the footwork was, the attitude, that's the good things.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT