ROLAND GARROS
May 28, 2015
Philipp Kohlschreiber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  P. ANDUJAR/P. Kohlschreiber  6-1, 7-6, 3-6, 3-6, 6-4    THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.   Q.  I have two questions.  One of them is:  Do you feel that getting into the match today somehow was difficult for you?  How did you spend the night?  Was there a problem?  Did you wish it was completed yesterday?  First that question.  PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER: Well, I think that he also started yesterday pretty good in the first set with a very aggressive game.  For sure he had a much better start today than myself. But on the other hand, I had also chances to break him to 5-4.  You know, easy volley I underjudged the ball a little bit so I played a weak volley.  He won crucial points. And then in this situation I was also nervous from the beginning.  Felt the pressure that now I have to finish it, you know.  Of course it was tougher today for me. I think yesterday I was in my zone.  Played unbelievable good tennis.  I felt much stronger than he did for sure, also mentally.  He had a great four games.  He played very aggressive, almost no mistakes, with the right decisions, so goes fast today.   Q.  Second question is:  When we look at your game, you have a very complete game.  In classical tennis, it's like all the best shots that a tennis player can have.  What do you think you must progress to become a steady top-10 player?  What do you think is missing for you?  PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER: I think I still have to grow a little bit.  I guess serve is not in the top level compared to other guys, especially the first serve.  I think that makes a huge difference, because the firepower of other players, they get so much free points. That's also the situation today, that I didn't really make one point with my serve.  If you have to play every point, you know, if you start to get a little bit tight, yeah, you don't accelerate and have enough depth in your game. Then it's always easy.  Anybody can play from the baseline.  Sometimes you need free points, easier points, and this is for sure missing in my game.  I have to work very hard for every point.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT