U.S. OPEN
August 30, 2014
Philipp Kohlschreiber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  P. KOHLSCHREIBER/J. Isner7-6, 4-6, 7-6, 7-6An interview with:PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBERTHE MODERATOR: Questions, please.Q. Three years, how do you have his number?PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER: Yeah, it's a little bit crazy to play three years in a row in the same round. It was so far very well for me.  Happy with the performance.  For sure it was mental advantage for me I think that I always won over a long distance. On the other hand it's always so close against him.  You have to play some tiebreaks.  I think I was, yeah, very solid, very consistent in there, mix it up with the good aggression.Q. Was it the aggression that gave you that extra kick through the three tiebreaks?PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER: Yeah, I wasn't so nervous somehow.  I don't know.  Normally you get a little bit stressed when it comes to a tiebreak and you know there are not many chances. Yeah, I mix it up pretty good with the serve.  I didn't go for an ace.  I always tried to get a good position in the rally.  I think the first tiebreak was very solid from my side.  In the third set, second tiebreak, he was helping me a lot.  I think he double-faulted twice.  I think this tiebreak he played, for his standard, quite bad. But, yeah, last one, again, I made just one return in that game.  I think he made four aces or five.  Yeah, what should I say?  I was guessing in the right moment, right time.Q. Next up you have quite the name in front of you.  How do you go into the match?PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER: I would say I do almost the same things, same preparation before.  Also last year I played John and then faced Nadal, who was No. 1 in the world. It's great to still be in the tournament, playing on the big courts.  I really enjoy it.  Well, he's the guy to beat in this tournament.  I'll try to give my best shot.  We had a couple good practice together.  I take everything positive out from there. We played in Rome this year.  I lost in three sets.  I know if I play my best I have a good shot.  On the other hand, who knows what's in two days.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT