ROLAND GARROS
June 1, 2014
Philipp Kohlschreiber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. MURRAY/P. Kohlschreiber 
      3‑6, 6‑3, 6‑3, 4‑6, 12‑10

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please. 

Q.   Looking from outside your career and your game, I mean, you're such a great player.   It looks as if, in the Grand Slam tournaments you have some problems reaching the top levels.   What do you think is lacking in your game?   You have a complete game.   Do you think it's like self‑confidence for Grand Slams, or what do you think is the problem?
    PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER:   I didn't see any problem out there.   I think I played or I faced a pretty good player.
    I gave everything I got.   We went to five sets, very close, and in the end just a few points. 
    Well, I don't know if you want to say something positive that I should achieve maybe in your opinion. 
    But obviously, I mean, I played some great matches already in my career in a Grand Slam, quarterfinals in Wimbledon.   So I'm okay, I'm not playing for titles.   Maybe it comes, I don't know, but also the match today I think I did a very good job, very happy, pleased with my game.
    I tried a few things.   They worked out pretty well, and, well, at the end, there were just a few points that make the difference.

Q.   Did you expect the French people, they were cheering for you, did you expect that before the match that the public would be with you?
    PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER:   I think nobody expect that, but obviously it's a great appreciation that I put a lot of energy and fighting spirit in every set.   I was many times down, I came back.   And I had maybe also some chances to break him in the fifth set to go ahead.
    It was a great feeling out there to play in such a great crowd.   Unfortunately someone has to lose.   But it was just yesterday and today was a great experience for me.

Q.   Can I ask you about last night?   You were 4‑2 and 30‑Love down, I think.   How did you get back into the match?
    PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER:   Well, if I remember right, I think he made two double faults at this time.   So he brought me actually back in this game.
    And then basically I had to take a little bit more risk in the next few points.   It worked out pretty well.   Well, it was for sure a key moment that I came back.
    I think I also had a break point at 4‑All, he served very well.   I mean, I had not a chance. 
    But, you know, it's how the whole match was, I think.   Every time somebody was leading, get broken back.   And I think it was a very high intense level, really great points.
    There was not a huge difference I think on both games.

Q.   He was obviously struggling physically last night.   Did the fact that you could see him, that he was clutching his leg and that he looked to be in difficulty, did that give you encouragement?
    PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER:   I just tried to hang in my game.   I had a very good feeling also that, yeah, I came back, the momentum was maybe a little bit more my side yesterday night. 
    But overall I saw many matches from him.   He's a huge fighter.   He never gives up. 
    I knew exactly what's coming.

Q.   Maybe the last few games in the tennis you played today, if you could go back and do it over again, anything you would change at all?
    PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER:   Yeah, I think I missed two smashes.   I don't know.   You know, it's not easy situation to go back at 7‑All.   It could be over in five minutes, can take much longer.
    I think we both did the right thing.   We just warmed up in the morning and then just right before the match.   And also I think the quality today was right there, pretty good points, pretty intense.
    Well, you know, I don't know.   Right now it's too fresh that I would say I have to do this or that.   I had my chances.   I couldn't take them.   Maybe that's also the plus he has, that he's a great player, he takes his opportunities very well. 

Q.   How do you prepare mentally for the start of play today with the score being 7‑7 in the fifth?
    PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER:   I actually didn't have any clue.   I mean, I stopped already a few matches but not in this crucial moment, I would say.
    So basically, yeah, I didn't know what to expect.   Like I mentioned, it could be over so fast, you can have eight great points and you're the winner, or the other way around.
    Yeah, I just tried to be ready from the first point, to start aggressive, not too much in the defense.   Maybe I made one or two easy mistakes today in the beginning, but that's what I was looking for, to be aggressive from the start.   And also today I had break chance to go ahead, and, yeah, I couldn't take it.

Q.   Murray said last night that he had trouble sleeping, that he woke up several times.   He could have played 4:00 or 5:00 in the morning.   How did you sleep?
    PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER:   Yeah, my sleep wasn't good, either.   I was sweating a lot.   If you finish late, you try to recover.   You drink a lot. 
    So quite often to the toilet.   And, well, it wasn't a great night, but honestly it didn't affect the game, I think. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT