ROLAND GARROS
May 29, 2014
Philipp Kohlschreiber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







P. KOHLSCHREIBER/D. Istomin
      6‑3, 7‑6, 6‑2

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please. 

Q.   Last time you beat a top‑10 player was Andy on clay.   Do you feel that on clay is your best chance to beat him? 
    PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER:   Well, all depends on his level of play, I would say.   If the big guys are confident and they win many matches, they're going to be tough to beat.
    Obviously I play also on a very nice run at the moment, so it's the best chance at the moment to play against the big guys. 
    And for sure he's the favorite in this match, but I'm going to try everything and fight from the first to last point.   I'm going to enjoy this match. 

Q.   Can you tell us about your present run?   You won the title in Dusseldorf, and it was your first title in two years.   Is this the best you've played for some time?
    PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER:   Well, I don't know.   I played already a few good matches, tournaments this year.   At the moment it's very consistent.   I'm very happy with my performance, of course.   I have a lot of confidence at the moment. 
    And winning a title is always very special.   It came at a great time, let's put it this way.   I'm just enjoying at the moment the good run.

Q.   And how tough an opponent do you think Andy Murray can be?
    PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER:   Of course unbelievable tough.   Yeah, if he's fit and mentally strong, he's unbelievable tough to play.   He's a very solid player.   He's a big fighter.   You're going to work very hard for the points.
    Obviously over the last years he's in the top 4, top 5.   Okay.   Last year he had a much tougher year with the injury, but I think he's coming back stronger and stronger. 
    Yeah, he is going to be the favorite in the match, but I have nothing to lose and I'm looking forward for it.

Q.   If you could choose a surface to play him on...
    PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER:   Clay.

Q.   It would be clay? 
    PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER:   Yes.

Q.   Tell us a bit about how you got into tennis in your childhood and so on, your mom and dad and how you got into it.
    PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER:   Well, I would say the almost usual story.   My mother tried to play tennis.   I was there, four years old, hanging around trying with the racquet.
    That's the way I started.   Well, the teacher, at that time he thought that I have kind of a talent and we continued to play.   I tried football or soccer and didn't work out.   Two left feet. 
    Well, so I strayed in tennis and I continued to play.   I made all the education through the Bavarian Federation.   I was fortunate to have not many injuries. 
    Yeah, I stayed in tennis and I made my school, and then I tried to go the professional way. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT