U.S. OPEN
August 31, 2013
Philipp Kohlschreiber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







P. KOHLSCHREIBER/J. Isner
      6‑4, 3‑6, 7‑5, 7‑6

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   What is it about your game that seems to have matched up against John so well here the last couple of years?
    PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER:   It's tough.   I mean, I think it was also this year pretty close one.   Maybe I'm guessing a little bit, you know, taking the right corners. 
    I think the only good thing is that I try to make him move a lot.   I don't go for winners, or like with the first serve I try to have high percentage.   I think that's one of the key moments that, yeah, I'm able to move him around.
    Maybe he doesn't, yeah, like being pushed from corner to corner.   I don't know.   I played very well today, and also last year.   It's always tough, but it was like I said very good match for me today.

Q.   What was happening when the chair umpire went over to talk to his box?
    PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER:   I don't know what's there went, but before was just ‑‑I don't know who was it, but one guy was really between first and second always saying, Come on, and, Let's go John, like really aggressive during my motion.   I turned around and said to him, Well, I don't think that's a nice thing what you do.
    Then I said to the umpire it should be his duty to keep the people a little bit down, you know.   It's not Davis Cup and it should be fair.
    After that, I think everything was fine.

Q.   If Tim Smyczek loses tomorrow, there's a chance that no Americans would be in the second week of any major this year for the first time ever.   What would you make of that, and your part of that? 
    PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER:   I'm part of that?   I'm sorry.
    Well, what shall I say?   I think, yeah, it's bad luck.   You know, I think John came up pretty strong for the tournament here.   Maybe he was a little bit unlucky today.   I had a good day.   I had a great start.   That gave me a lot of confidence to go into the match starting with a break.
    Well, for sure, it's not great for the American history not to have a player in the second week, but you had so many good years.   I think John is doing pretty well.   I mean, he will be playing the next Grand Slams pretty good, I think.

Q.   What do you make of playing Nadal?
    PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER:   I think it's going to be a total different setup for the match, more rallies, maybe less service winners.
    But I'm really looking forward.   You know, had some good matches against him, especially on hard court.   Basically I know a little bit how I have to play.   We don't have to say he's in pretty good shape winning almost, yeah, every match on hard court. 
    So it's going to be really tough, but I'm really looking forward to play on Ashe.   And I'm happy with my performance today.   I think I also will play a really good match against him. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT