WIMBLEDON
June 30, 2012
Philipp Kohlschreiber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 P. KOHLSCHREIBER/L. Rosol
  6‑2, 6‑3, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   How does it feel to play somebody who had such a huge match only two days earlier?  
PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER:   Well, of course I know for sure he is in a great shape, a lot of confidence.   I think it was very dangerous to play against him.   
But like I said before, I think I have the right game plan against him.   I mixed up the pace a lot.   Every time if he hit a very strong ball, I tried to slice it back, keep it short.   He doesn't like to move too much into the court.   
Everything I saw against Nadal, I figured out I think the perfect tactic.   Obviously I played a very, very good match today.   
   
 Q.   Can professional players understand how Rosol can come out here and beat somebody like Nadal?   Did you have any anticipation you'd be playing him today rather than Nadal?  
PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER:   Well, of course I'm very happy that I'm not playing against Rafael Nadal, that's for sure.   Because, like I said, if I would go to the match against Nadal, the chances would be 90/10 to win or lose.   Today was more 50/50.   
It's tough to say.   I would say if you have your dream day, I think everybody can play and win against everybody.   We saw that.   
Yeah, of course I was hoping he's having not that day again against me.   I think also the conditions today, it was a little bit windy, we played on a smaller court, so it was everything a little bit more in my favor, I think.   
He likes to stay and hit the ball full power.   If the wind is changing the ball a little bit, I would say it's not too well for his game to hit every time full power.  
   
 Q.   You've beaten Nadal recently, as well.   Did you speak to Lukas at all about your experience?   
PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER:   Well, I just saw him before the match, so I didn't want to give him more confidence and remember what he did.   So I tried to be very professional, to look just for this match and nothing what happened before.   
I knew him a little bit before, that he's a dangerous player.   I practiced once.   He's a big server.   But actually I read his serve pretty well today.   Like I said, I played maybe really the first two sets I think amazing tennis.   I didn't make too many unforced errors.   I served well.   
Of course, it's also a mind game then in the third set.   
   
 Q.   Your next opponent is Brian Baker.   What do you know about him?  
PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER:   Nothing.  
   
 Q.   He said that he thinks he might have played doubles against you about eight years ago.   Do you have any recollection at all of ever seeing him on the court?  
PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER:   Really, I know him because I think he was a really great junior.   I heard that he had couple of surgeries.   I just saw his name coming up this year maybe a little bit before the French Open when he played I think such a really good tournament in ‑ I forgot the name ‑ Nice, I think.   Yeah, so that's the only things I know about him.   
Well, I will ask some people and hopefully I find out enough to beat him.   
   
 Q.   So you know a little bit about his story?  
PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER:   Yes.   
   
 Q.   What do you make of it?   
PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER:   Well, for sure it's a great chance for both of us, I think.   If you play in the last 16 and you're not facing Federer, Nadal, Murray, whatever, the big guys, it's a great chance to reach the quarterfinals, for sure.   
Even I don't know what his ranking is.   He played three good matches here, so I think it's going to be a tough one.   Like I said, everybody is playing now I think good tennis to reach the last 16.   
   
 Q.   You mentioned in an earlier round that you expected Lukas would be in good shape mentally and physically.   The wind seemed to bother him.   His body language wasn't that confident.   Did you notice that and take some strength from that?  
PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER:   Well, for sure he tried to do the same things against Nadal, I would say.   Like I said, you always have opponent of the other side.   I think what I did very well today was I was returning very well and I mixed up the game a little bit.   I was returning with the slice and aggressive.   I didn't give him too much rhythm for his game, let's say.   
Yeah, then, of course, he will think a little bit why he's missing the balls.   Like I said, I think the wind favored me a little bit today.   Obviously I was playing very well on the defense as well.   
   
 Q.   You played such a focused match.   At the end he's taking the crowd's applause and signing autographs, and I watched you climb over the fence and disappear.   Have you left as a winner ever unnoticed like that before?  
PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER:   Well, of course.   I think that the crowd wanted to see more of his, yeah, great game let's say from the fantastic points.   Of course, it was a little bit strange, let's say, if the loser is going to go back to the court.   It never happened before, let's say.   
But I think it's a big respect that he played such a great tournament.   I don't know if the English people really liked him to kick out Nadal.   That's maybe what they were cheering also today.   I don't know.   
   
 Q.   When you think back to maybe when you were at this stage of moving up the rankings that Lukas is now, did you have a breakthrough win like the Nadal win?   What are the challenges for a player at that level to sustain that while they're still maybe not able to afford the coaching, travel, physio, things like that?   
PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER:   Well, yeah, it's tough to say.   Of course, you know, the main thing is after such a great tournament that you keep working hard.   You don't think that or you cannot expect that everything will run easily now.   Everybody knows his game now.   Maybe some will watch my match today, which he produced a lot of mistakes.   
It's also now that we change the surface back to clay.   So I think everything changed a little bit.   Of course, he has one match which he played unbelievable.   Maybe today he didn't, so that's why his ranking is also not that great.   Maybe he's changing everything and he can continue to play as well as the match of Nadal.   
But, of course I think the consistent in tennis, that's the main thing.   That's unbelievable.   With the big guys, they're always so strong in the big tournaments.   Okay, now this tournament Nadal went out early, but normally the four, five, six guys, they always book the tickets for quarterfinals.   
So, yeah, I hope he can continue to play well, but it's going to be for sure much tougher now because the people maybe, yeah, like to play different against him now.   
   
 Q.   What was it like for you two nights ago to watch his match against Nadal?  
PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER:   Well, actually not really too much.   I mean, for sure I was thinking that Nadal will take it.   Every time if he plays five sets he's normally mentally and physically the stronger guy.   But Rosol did everything well; he kept the rallies very short.   
I mean, I think the roof was closed, so it's great to serve for him.   Everything was perfect.   The crowd were cheering for him, so he get the second or third air.   Basically he really won the match.   Nadal, he couldn't do anything.   
Of course, that was something‑‑ yeah, of course I was hoping that he's winning.   Like I said, I think the chances went up a lot.   Basically, like I said, I mean, I lost also many times against Nadal before, and of course to play Nadal is always tougher than Rosol, for sure.   
   
 Q.   This is your first time in the Round of 16 at Wimbledon.   What are your emotions on reaching that for the first time?  
PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER:   Well for sure I think on the third match point I was kind of nervous.   I played a pretty bad shot, I would say, not too fast, almost reaching, yeah, the net very low.   
Of course, there are emotions, but mainly over the whole match I was very concentrated.   I didn't lost the focus even when the crowd went up crazy for him.   
So I am perfect mentally.   I feel physically very strong.   I hope I can play at least one more good match.   To reach first time quarterfinal would be, of course, great success.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT