WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 15, 2011
Philipp Kohlschreiber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







P. KOHLSCHREIBER/A. Roddick
  6-7, 7-5, 6-1

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. What was your strategy coming into this match? You were down 4 to 1 in head-to-head meetings, I believe, with him. What did you want to do differently?
 PHILIP KOHLSCHREIBER: I think all the matches I played against him were pretty good matches. Of course we all know that his serve is very tough to return and to read.
 I think in the beginning he served well. I didn't have any chances. But somehow I got back to the match, break down, and but then I started to guess the right directions. 
 I also know that from the baseline, I don't know, that I'm better even, whatever, but all the points are open. Yeah, basically I took the chances, and he got a little bit frustrated that I returned more and more balls and I put I think some more pressure on his service games.
 Yeah, you could feel that he maybe didn't have so many matches in the past about the injury and he was out for a while. So I guess that was the reason that he maybe got a little bit nervous. I don't know. 

 Q. Was your service game giving you any problems to start the third set? You had four break points, I think, against your serve to start the third. 
 PHILIP KOHLSCHREIBER: Yeah, I think also in the first set I had some tough moments I survived until the tiebreaker. And, well, you know, it's close to a break but not a break, and I think I played very tough points there and I didn't gave him easy opportunities there. 
 Yeah, maybe that's sometimes in the matches you win the big points, and I think I did it during -- maybe starting from the second set on that I won most of the very important points. 
 I think that made maybe the difference. 

 Q. Critical point of the match looked like it was 4-3 in the second set. 
 PHILIP KOHLSCHREIBER: Uh-huh.

 Q. What did you do differently? You just got broken and then you were able to break him. 
 PHILIP KOHLSCHREIBER: Yeah, like I said, I just guessed to the right side. I returned all the first serves there. I think he maybe double faulted one, I don't know. 
 Yeah, basically I let him play more balls on his service game. Like I said, more pressure on his side. 
 I start to play maybe a little bit better, more free. And, yeah, the break was -- I think I almost broke him to love or 15, so it was a very good break. 
 Basically I was back in the match. Then maybe he struggled a little bit more. Same thing the next break, that I guessed four times the right side, played a solid return, he had to come in, and I played some good passing shots.
 Yeah, turned the match around. 

 Q. Whenever you have controversy on the court, does that affect your game? I should say, how does that affect you when there's an argument?
 PHILIP KOHLSCHREIBER: Well, of course I'm now a little bit more experienced, so I know how I have to deal. I had some situations like this. But it's never really easy, of course. If you get interrupted, it's a bit of a kind of break. Your opponent gets angry and also the crowds gets really excited. 
 You never know what to expect. It's like a wounded animal which you never know. Could be running crazy, everything, and I was trying to stay calm.
 Yeah, I tried to hang in, play my game, and I think I played some good points there, served pretty well. You know, the next game was maybe quite easy game, so I kept some distance between him and me. 
 Yeah, I think he also lost, you know, his game plan or he missed more. Basically then he broke his game by himself. 

 Q. Do you get more aggressive in your style of play when your opponent is angry to try and end points quicker, for instance?
 PHILIP KOHLSCHREIBER: No, I think that has something to do with confidence. Basically I also started this tournament not winning so many matches, and basically I tried to hang in to fight and, yeah, concentrate on my footwork, which I think I improved during the match. 
 I had some better and better rallies, points coming up, and basically he missed a little bit more. He also gave me the chance that I played bit more aggressive. I had some big points there, and of course I raised my confidence level on this. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT