DAVIS CUP FINALS
November 21, 2019
Philipp Kohlschreiber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
GERMANY 1, Chile 0   
KOHLSCHREIBER/Jarry 6-4, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Let's start with questions in English, please.   
 Q.  I imagine you are happy. I would like you to analyze this game against Jarry. What was the key point to win today?  
PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER: Like you said, I think I played a very good match. Very happy with my performance. I think I did everything well.   
So, yeah, it's tough to say. I returned well. I played well. I served well. So I think I'm playing well against these guys, big-serving guys and returning well. I think I'm always a little bit better from the baseline. I moved around well. I mention it quite often that I played well, I think.   
I'm very happy, of course. We had a very good win yesterday, but we knew we have to win one more point in the group to be the winner in the group. So I think it's nice to already win the first point.   
I think Jarry didn't play bad, but I think I played very well, very clever. So, yeah, very happy with the performance.   
 Q.  Philipp, well played for the match. You have had two victories so far. How do you explain how the Davis Cup brings the best out of you? And how do you rate your game regarding the surface here in Madrid?  
PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER: Well, I mean, I am playing now for many years the Davis Cup, so I think it's already credit that I really like to play in the team for the country. We have a great atmosphere. A very professional team around us. So the support is outstanding.   
I try to enjoy. Of course, it's always more pressure in Davis Cup. But at the end, I think I enjoy more than its pressure, so that's why I'm always coming back if I have the opportunity.   
So far, I think, I have no problem with the altitude because I come -- or I practice from Munich so it's pretty much the same. And the surface plays very fair. I think it's not really slow, but you can play nice tennis.   
I practiced the last three or four weeks very hard and intense in Munich with very good quality, also here in practice. So I'm very happy that I showed yesterday in the second and third set and today from the start that I was practicing good. So I'm very happy for that.   
 Q.  Was it different to play with same pressure in the Davis Cup without a lot of fans, the noise? Do you think a little bit of the Davis Cup is lost with this format?  
PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER: I mean, I think of course if you play at home and you have a stadium supporting you, of course it's a very nice feeling.   
I think we, as a German team, we cannot create this interactive feeling with the fans here because there's only a few people coming to really, from Germany. But it's always -- I mean, it's special. I play for my country and it doesn't matter for me if I play in the front of 100 people or 10,000.   
Of course, it's more stress. And I had all the matches already where I played maybe against 10,000 people in Spain, you know, cheering for Rafa or somebody else.   
But, yeah, we are here now. We want to do our best. We still play for our country. And, you know, for sure, there will be always some improvements but they've made a step.   
Like I said, I'm playing for my country and this is more important than all the changes and rule changes what's going on.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in German.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT