WIMBLEDON
June 25, 2010
Philipp Kohlschreiber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. RODDICK/P. Kohlschreiber
  6-2, 6-4, 6-2

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. What would you say was the biggest difference between today and when you beat Roddick at the Australian Open?
 PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER: Well, it's tough to say. I think for sure it's different surface, and I think we played both a really good match. 
 I was also happy with my performance. I think it was just much tougher to return his serve. He was, yeah, serving well. I would say always in the big moments he had a good serve. 
 All first set he didn't have one bad game, so I never get really the chance to make enough pressure to make him struggle a little bit. Yeah, he was very solid. I think we both played a very well game.

 Q. After winning the second set there, you played a great game to hold serve at 5-4. 
 PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER: Yeah.

 Q. Won the tiebreaker. Was it a case of maybe letting up a little at the start of the third?
 PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER: Yeah, well, for sure you have to say -- yeah, if you get broken in the first game after the break, it's tough to say. I mean, it was new balls. Everything came together. He returned well. I didn't have the free points with the serve. So everything came together.
 I think that was also what he did very well. He put so many balls back to let me play. I mean, I had the chances. Yeah, I remember I attacked once. I didn't hit the ball very well so he could make another good shot. 
 Yeah, so it put everything together it was the break then. 

 Q. Did he return maybe better than you remember him returning when you played in the past?
 PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER: No. He's always very solid with the return. But for sure it's -- yeah, you like to have some free points on grass, I would say. But he was returning very well with the backhand; maybe sometimes with the forehand he chipped it or he played the normal one.
 But overall, I really think that he returned very well. That always gave me a lot of pressure to serve more, so maybe the percentage got down a little bit because I felt that he was everywhere. I always have really to fight for my serve, and so maybe was also the result that he always served well and I got broken in the third and the fourth then.

 Q. What did you think of the first match point, I think it was, the dive he made for that ball? A little crazy? 
 PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER: Well, crazy, I don't know. He tried everything. I think he was very concentrated, yeah, well-prepared. So he just showed he really liked to win really bad. 
 Yeah, for sure it was the right thing, because otherwise I have one breakpoint. He served well in this moment. But still, maybe the match could happen if he can't reach the ball like that. Would be great. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT