WIMBLEDON
June 26, 2009
Philipp Kohlschreiber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. FEDERER/P. Kohlschreiber
  6-3, 6-2, 6-7, 6-1 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. How is playing Federer different from facing other players?  
 PHILIP KOHLSCHREIBER: It's tough. I mean, he always starts everything is looking so easy and smooth with him. But for the opponent, for example me today, I always felt the pressure so much that he's starting the matches very aggressive and put a lot of pressure. Yeah, I mean, it's always nice to play against him. It's a funny boy. It's always nice, so actually it's quite funny. Unfortunate that most of the time you gonna lose.   
  
  Q. He accumulated more than 20 breakpoints on your serve although you fought many off. Is his serve or return of serve maybe even a part of his game that might get overlooked? Is his return very good?  
 PHILIP KOHLSCHREIBER: Yeah, I think that's also what makes it really special. He has the quality to react of everything. Also if you serve good, yeah, it's just getting many, many balls back.   
 From my point of view I have to say that my serve was maybe not the greatest today. But also he has the ability to read the serve quite well, makes it maybe equal.   
 Yeah, I mean, ever service game was quite a hard fight for me. The beginning, yeah, he was playing too strong. Finally I get the better rhythm, and maybe calm a little bit more down, and yeah, start finally play a really good third set.  
  
  Q. Did you feel after winning the tiebreaker like, Hey, this a match, I'm able to get back into it?  
 PHILIP KOHLSCHREIBER: I don't know. It's tough to say. He did what he always did: He's coming out from the changeover or the toilet, and start with really good service game.   
 Yeah, that was the only point where I a little bit angry on myself, that i didn't -- you know, that I lost or I put a lot of energy in the third set. Maybe I, yeah, start to build up myself. But it was just, yeah, too slow.   
 Then he had already the break up and that was the only point where I was a little bit disappointed in myself that this happened after winning the third set. He was coming out better, and normally I should try to be a little bit aggressive or in the better mood. That was the only thing.  
  
  Q. Can you see anybody beating him at Wimbledon?   
 PHILIP KOHLSCHREIBER: I mean, if everybody is like fighting like I did today, you know, it's always a chance. Like he was also a break up in had the third set. You always have a chance to come back.   
 Yeah, I mean, I think it's always the key that you have -- everybody says that you have to enjoy the matches against him. Yeah, if you fight and you believe and you give everything, there's always a chance in sport to beat everybody.  
  
  Q. You have played against him a few times. Is this the best he played against you, do you think?   
 PHILIP KOHLSCHREIBER: Hopefully he says he plays good today, because I felt especially in the first two sets that he always just run me down. It was just too good. Maybe I played too aggressive sometimes.   
 It sounds maybe stupid, but always if I play very aggressive he just had the better answer and put me on the right foot.  
 And then finally I start to play long rallies, maybe what is not the real tennis on grass, but for me it was feeling better also. How I came back and broke him back, I just return, you know, with a lot of quality and start to make him in a longer rallies. There I felt in the third set even better than him sometimes.   
 So, yeah, he was just too good. You know, it's like the points, like the short points, is just the best. You know, he's serving, and the next one is like unbelievable good.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT