AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 18, 2008
Philipp Kohlschreiber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  You didn't like the center court beforehand.  You told us about playing on the outside courts.  How did it feel to have the crowd behind you at the end?   
 PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER:  The whole match, the whole game for me was perfect I think today.  And, yeah, the forehand worked out pretty well.   
 Yeah, it's not a matter of the shots, was going for good ones, and in the end I had like four in a row, and that's a funny thing.   
  
  Q.  Who is responsible for that backhand of yours?   
 PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER:  I don't know.  For me it's like for Roddick it's the serve, for me it's the backhand.  It's the easy shot for me.  It looks great.  It comes a lot of power.  For me it's pretty easy to play the backhand.   
  
  Q.  Did someone influence the way you learned to strike the ball?   
 PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER:  I think I played the backhand all my life the same.  Like when I was a young kid I started with one hand and I played it - like not this good, but coming up, coming up.   
 I think I'm always a good stroker from the baseline, especially the backhand looks nice.  Nobody expecting such power on the backhand.  That's why it's a nice shot for me.   
  
  Q.  You played well the whole match.  Did you feel when you had a few match points late in the fifth set you wouldn't get the job done?  You got a little frustrated?   
 PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER:  No, not really.  I wasn't thinking to finish the match.  I just was looking the whole time for the next point.  Yeah, I had no chance with the match points.  He served three aces in a row, so I had a good chance with the forehand two games before.   
 But that's okay.  I mean, I just played the whole game, the whole match, the same.  Yeah, I think at the end, the last game was just like amazing shots.  That's the best way to finish it.  Better than the line call with the Hawk-Eye.   
  
  Q.  Speaking of Hawk-Eye, he got angry a couple times about a few of the umpire's decisions.  Did you just concentrate on your game or did that put you off at all?   
 PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER:  I think they were pretty good.  I mean, we played close to four hours.  It's also tough for them to see every ball.  It's very fast, very close balls.  I think they all did a great job.   
 I like to play on the big courts.  You have always the Hawk-Eye in the back.  If you're maybe unsure or you don't believe the umpire, then just challenge it.   
  
  Q.  What about recovery?  Do you go and do something now, or do you just want to get to bed.   
 PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER:  Yeah, after the press I do some massage, drinking, eating.  I think the best way to relax, to come down, is to go to bed early, or as soon as possible (smiling).   
 Yeah, then easy day tomorrow and then maybe hopefully I'm fit again for the next round.   
  
  Q.  Is it a concern you might not be able to get to sleep and get recovered in time?   
 PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER:  Well, I mean, it's a Grand Slam, so you lose a lot of energy.  Today, of course, was a tough match.  But, yeah, we practice for this.   
 Yeah, my opponent also played three matches.  It's not like he's on full power and I'm on half power, so it's always equal a little bit.   
  
  Q.  You were out there for almost four hours.  What does this match say about you?   
 PHILIPP KOHLSCHREIBER:  Maybe the new guy on the tour who likes to come more and more and come also, yeah, to the dream, to be a top-10 player.   
 Yeah, I had a pretty nice start.  Keep going, keep going, do the best for the tournament.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT