ATP CUP
February 7, 2021
Vincenzo Santopadre
Matteo Berrettini
Fabio Fognini
Simone Bolelli
Andrea Vavassori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  THE MODERATOR:   Tough luck today.  Vincenzo, what made Andrey and Daniil so tough to beat today.
 VINCENZO SANTOPADRE:   We knew they are a strong team.  They are two guys that are playing really well since long time.  But anyway we tried it hard.  Nothing, just they were better than us today.  That's something that happens.
 But I think Matteo and Fabio and all the team was there to support them.  They did their best.  I'm proud of them.  I want to, again, say thanks to them for these emotions.  I am grateful to them.  That's it.
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions.
 Q. Matteo, talk a little bit about what it was like to face Daniil today.  He's been in unbelievable form against top-10 players.
 MATTEO BERRETTINI:   I think with anyone, not just top-10 players.
 But yeah, he was really solid.  I was struggling to win the point, to play my game.  He's returning very well.  Like I said, he's solid, he's not missing a lot.  I couldn't find a way to win the match.
 I guess he was better than me.  In these days, you just have to say 'bravo' to him and think about the next matches.  For sure the next time I'm going to be more ready because I'm going to know him better.
 He's playing really good.  He's in confident, you can tell.  He's a really tough player to beat.
 Q. Your Australian Open preparations, is it good to come up against a guy like him?
 MATTEO BERRETTINI:   I mean, when I look at the draws, I never look like too far, just look the first round, round after round.  I know that every match is really tough.  For sure he is one of the candidate for the win.
 If you're going deep, obviously you're going to play against him, against Andrey, the best guys.  Now I have to think about my first round.
 I think we still have time to enjoy a little bit our week.  We did a great job.  Obviously today didn't go that well.  I think we should be proud of ourself what we did.  That's what the rest of the day is going to be for.  I think we have to enjoy and be proud, then think about our next matches.
 Q. Fabio, did it feel like it was against a tornado when you played Rublev first?
 FABIO FOGNINI:   We play with the two best shape guy in the circuit at the moment.  Especially in my case, it's tough to say, but I don't have these kind of matches, this kind of speed during the point.  Nothing to say.
 I just tried to do my best today, but I was feeling that this one is already next step that I needed to probably be ready again to play with this guy.  At the moment was too much.  I going to try (smiling).
 Q. Fabio, Jannik Sinner is playing later today.  What can you say about his standing in tennis as a player on the rise?
 FABIO FOGNINI:   Wish him best of luck.  He play against another Italian.  The trophy is Italian.  Nothing else to say.  Good luck to both of them.
 It going to be an interesting match.  Nothing else.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT