AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 31, 2015
Simone Bolelli
Fabio Fognini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  BOLELLI-FOGNINI/Mahut-Herbert  6-4, 6-4  An interview with:  FABIO FOGNINI  SIMONE BOLELLI   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   Q.  The first Italian win in a men's double final in more than 50 years.  Talk about what this win means for Italian tennis.  SIMONE BOLELLI: Well, is a very good win.  Do this with Fabio is unbelievable.  I think we did something amazing.  Maybe we didn't realize what we made today, but maybe tomorrow we're going to realize better.  For our nation, for our Federation, for the people follow us, who support us, all Italian people, I think we made a very good things.  When we were on court, me and Fabio, I think we have a very good relationship.  This is very important things when you play doubles because you're not alone on court.  We play many times.  Maybe two, three years that we play almost together every doubles.  We play very good matches also in Davis Cup.  Now I think we're thinking about the ATP Finals is one of our goal.   Q.  You're both great singles players.  Is it a surprise to have this billing success come in doubles suddenly?  SIMONE BOLELLI: Yeah, we are surprised.  Obviously we are a single player and then we play doubles with second priority.  Let's say like this.  When we are out of the single, obviously we try to do our best also in doubles.  Is very important for our confidence, for improve our game.  So I think now we're going to play more matches.   Q.  So you're practicing with Errani and Vinci?  FABIO FOGNINI: We play men.  Woman tennis is different.   Q.  You were practicing with them, no?  FABIO FOGNINI: We just play some joke indoor once.   Q.  Is it your biggest success in your career?  SIMONE BOLELLI: Yeah, I think one of the best moment in my career, for sure.  I have very good sensation Davis Cup, but this one, I mean, we won a Grand Slam title.  Is a big thing.   Q.  And for you, Fabio?  FABIO FOGNINI: For sure is something that is completely different when you won a tournament.  Yeah, the feeling is great because you won tournament, but now we talking about Grand Slam.  Even if it's doubles and you say, okay, our priority, it's singles, but we have to recognize we won a Grand Slam.  It's not everything like you can win every day or every year, so at the moment we are really happy.  We would like to enjoy this trophy as soon as we can.  Of course tomorrow is going to be another day.  We going to try -- we going to work for another thing and do our best on singles.  Of course, Simone say that the goal now is going to be the ATP Finals in London if it's still in London.  Of course we have to work on singles first, and then when we have the chance to play doubles, especially in the 1000 event, of course we are going to try to do our best on that.  It's everything in our hands now.  It's a big tournament.  It's 2000 points.  We have to recognize we have a chance to go to the ATP Tour Final.   Q.  After this controversial point in the opening game of the second set, you were so angry with the French players.  SIMONE BOLELLI: We were right.  I mean, the umpire make the unbelievable mistake.  He realize it after, but after was too late.   FABIO FOGNINI: Is the truth that the chair umpire recognize the mistake.   SIMONE BOLELLI: Yeah, was really clear.   FABIO FOGNINI: Even if he make a mistake, he recognize after.  The first time happen in my life.  Sometimes I have the problem with the chair umpire.   Q.  What did he say to you?  FABIO FOGNINI: No, he say sorry.  My coach went there.   SIMONE BOLELLI: I mean, they saw the video.   FABIO FOGNINI: They saw the video later.  The supervisor, he say to me I was right.  So I am happy.  One of the first time that he say that.   Q.  Fabio, what did you say to Nico after this point?  FABIO FOGNINI: Nothing, because he know that he touch two times.  But it's tough to recognize because it was important point, was point of the game, breakpoint the first game of the second set.  You know, I mean, important thing now is we have the cup here and we would like to enjoy.   Q.  Fabio, you've had arguments with chair umpires before.  Does him admitting he was wrong mean to you as much as the title?  FABIO FOGNINI: No.  But I'm happy he recognize this mistake.  This one for sure is a big thing from the chair umpire, for sure.   Q.  How do you celebrate tonight?  FABIO FOGNINI: He have the wife (laughter).  No, for sure we going to celebrate.  I mean, we have to change.  Maybe some party for sure.   SIMONE BOLELLI: Yeah, drink.  I don't know.   FABIO FOGNINI: And tomorrow we fly back.   Q.  Will you play together in the next tournaments?  SIMONE BOLELLI: We're going to play Davis Cup, Indian Wells, and Miami.  February no, because I play indoor Europe, he play South America.  But then all slam, all Masters, for sure.   Q.  Fabio, do you feel like you're walking in the footsteps of Flavia Pennetta?  Do you feel like you're following her?  FABIO FOGNINI: Is the first thing I have to say that I won something like her, because she won 10 tournaments.  I won only three.  She was top 10; I was 13.  I was asleep, but is one thing we are tight.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT