PACIFIC LIFE OPEN
March 13, 2003
Conchita Martinez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. How do you account for your dominance of Coetzer? I think you're like 14-3 against her now. 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Well, I had really good matches against her. You know, I had to play with a lot of patience, like I did tonight. Hit a lot of topspin, wait for the short ball, dominate with my forehand. I think I did that good tonight.  
 
Q. In your first two matches you went three sets. The last two have been two sets, fairly easy. Shouldn't they be getting harder as you progress into a tournament? 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Well, I always had tough matches at the beginning of the tournaments. You have to get your rhythm. The first match I almost lost. I mean, I was losing in the second set. I don't know, I didn't feel like I was playing my best tennis. But then I got two matches in me and I started playing much better, became more comfortable with my game. I think the last two matches I played really, really well and I've been feeling the court a little bit better than the first two.  
 
Q. This is your fifth tournament of the year. Are you playing your best tennis now? 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Yeah, definitely I'm playing much more consistent. I didn't start very well in Australia. I play much better in Qatar and Dubai. Here it's just great to be in the semifinals again, in a Tier I. Yeah, I'm playing very good tennis. Hopefully I can keep it up.  
 
Q. Do you have a game plan against Clijsters or do you just go out and play your game? 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Well, if I play my game and I play good tennis, I know I can do very well. I actually, you know, go without with a game plan.  
 
Q. Specifically for each opponent, you might play Clijsters differently than Coetzer? 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Yeah, definitely I have to play a little bit more aggressive because Clijsters is going to hit the ball much harder than Coetzer. She's going to try to keep hitting hard and moving me and everything, so I can just not play high balls. I mean, there's no way I'm going to go out there and play serve and volley. I still going to do my game but try -- we'll see. I just finish this one. I'm still not there yet. I'm sure I'll be ready for it tomorrow.  
 
Q. Watching you play, it's almost like watching tennis as it was played in yesteryear. You have so much variety, spin. Is it disappointing to you that you see so little of that anymore; that tennis is mostly power? 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Yeah, you can say that, that it is power. I mean, everybody hits the ball harder. There's a lot of young players out there. Yeah, like you said, there's not many players left in the game that play like me. I mean, there was more years before. But I guess it's just the way it is, the way that tennis is playing right now. Everybody's very fit and hitting the ball hard. I mean, it's a disappointment. Particularly I like a little bit more variety. But, you know, that's just the way it is.  
 
Q. Do you think it might give you an advantage in that you're one of the few that play as you do? 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: I know, like I say, if I play good tennis and I use my shots the right way, many people don't like to play against me. Yeah, there's not many players left that play like me. Many players play the same, just hitting, hitting. They used to that. But, you know, it takes a lot of effort to play the way I play. Playing against young players like right now, be ready for all of those matches.  
 
Q. You won a lot of matches in a lot of years. Have you ever won one on a let cord like that? 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: I don't remember. That was kind of weird to finish the match like that. I was really happy to go to the semifinals, but you sort of don't want to celebrate after a shot like that. No, I don't remember.  
 
Q. Does this mean more to get to a Tier I semifinals, being over 30? 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: I'm 30 still (smiling). Don't give me more.  
 
Q. 31 next month. 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Is it? Gee! I mean, it does mean a lot. For me it's very important to play at this level, playing against -- well, today, no, because Amanda is my age or a little bit more. Yeah, I mean, it's great to be in the semifinals of a Tier I, playing great tennis after, I don't know, 14, 15 years. It's great.  
 
Q. I remember you saying last summer that you didn't want to leave the game just because of injuries. You keep trying. Now does it seem like all your work is coming to fruition? 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Yeah. It's taken a long time. I mean, coming back from when I was injured with my Achilles, I mean, I was six months out. It took like a long time. I mean, just now I'm feeling like I'm coming back. You know, your rhythm, everything. But, yeah, definitely work is paying off right now and I'm really happy. I mean, I'm coming back, I'm getting my ranking back. I mean, I'm not going to stop right here. I mean, I feel very good, with a lot of chances to still do good.  
 
Q. Did you have to have surgery on your Achilles? 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: No.  
 
Q. Which leg? 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: It was my right Achilles. I got treatment for both basically. They're still both not in the greatest shape, but they're holding up.  
 
Q. Do you still remember your finals here in '92? 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: I remember one final, the one I play Steffi. That one I remember. The other one I didn't.  
 
Q. Kind of a long time ago. When was it? 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: I'm not sure.  
 
Q. Steffi was '96. You've been in the final here twice. 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: I remember Steffi. The other one, who was it?  
 
Q. Monica. It's a whole different generation of players now. 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Yeah, it is. Definitely playing Steffi or playing people like you play at the moment, it's totally whole different generation.  
 
Q. You play a lot the same that you used to, a lot of the same style. Do you feel you've improved a lot and had to add things to your game to stay with the players now? 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Definitely I feel very good physically. I think, I mean, I'm in a good shape. You have to be in a good shape to keep up with all the hard-hitters. You know, I always try to improve. I try to play more aggressive, variate (sic) my game, always try to do the same but definitely a little bit better. Sometimes it works and sometimes is not so good. At least you keep trying. If it works like this, it's really nice.  
 
Q. You're going to be playing a very hard-hitter in Kim. Last time was close. You're 1-1 against her. 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Yeah, I'm sure she's playing great tennis right now. I mean, she's one of the players that is playing the best tennis right now. It's going to be very tough. It's been a long time since I haven't play her, so I don't really know what to expect, I mean, other than she's going to hit the ball very hard. You know, she's a great player. Hopefully I can play my game and play some good tennis and keep up with her.  
 
Q. Is part of your plan with the younger players, even with someone like Kim who has been into a Grand Slam final, is it to try to frustrate them, moving the ball around, changing the speeds? 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Well, that's my game, that's the way I play. I always try to do that different slice or different topspin. If I feel confident with my forehand, I win a lot of points with my forehand. I have to be aggressive and try to prepare the points so I have short balls to finish with my forehand. That's sort of my game plan.  
 
Q. When you're not injured, do you enjoy playing tennis now more than you did, say, 10 years ago? 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Well, yeah. When I'm not injured, it's great to practice, it's great to feel good and win matches. Do I enjoy it more? I always enjoy winning and I always -- I mean, winning matches, it's a great, great feeling. I don't know. I mean right now, yeah, because being injured and having to come back, I mean, it's more rewarding, I guess.  
 
Q. Can you talk about playing a night match and playing Kim tomorrow at 12. 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: I was a little bit disappointed to know itself going to play at 12. Being an oldy like me, we don't recover as fast (smiling). Hopefully I'll do the best I can, that's all I can say.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT