CHASE CHAMPIONSHIPS OF SANEX WTA TOUR
November 13, 2000
Conchita Martinez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  Q. What is your feeling about this being the last tournament at the Garden?
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: What's my feeling? You know, it's always sad -- I mean, the Garden is great. It's a very good atmosphere. It's hard to leave New York. I'm sure that I will have a better memory of winning today.  
 Q. Do you have a sense among the players whether they like this move or whether they don't like the move? 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: You'll have to ask around.  
 Q. Is there a sense? You're not sure? 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: It's difficult. It's difficult to say. We have to play over there and see how The CHAMPIONSHIPS is going to be there. But, of course, it's going to be sad not coming back here to Madison Square Garden.  
 Q. Your start today was not pretty good. What did you change? 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: I started -- it was hard. I felt like I couldn't do my game. I was feeling weird out there. I was hitting the ball -- I was hitting at her pace, and then I started trying to mix up my game and being a little bit more aggressive, searching for my forehand. And that worked better for me, because I was moving and my serve worked out a little bit better the second and third set.  
 Q. With this being your last time in New York, is this now a special tournament? 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Yeah, it's always been, The CHAMPIONSHIPS, only 16 players make it. I mean, this year, we had a lot of pull-outs, but for me, even though it is indoors and not my best surface, it was always a good feeling to come here to New York playing at the Garden. 
 Q. How do you feel, considering the last couple of years, losing in the Opening round? How does it feel this time? 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Yeah, I have to still -- I need a little bit of time. It was very close. I thought I was going to lose that match. It feels good to come back and to keep fighting, you know, stick around for at least one more round. I'll have more time to get used to the court and get ready for the next match. 
 Q. What is the difference between you today, if you had to think become to 1994 when you won the big one? 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: I'm older (laughs). 
 Q. Besides that, what do you find different in your game today? 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Not much. I mean, I don't know, that was a great year for me. Especially 1994 and '95, they were my best years. I think this year has been great for me. I went back out there and fought for my ranking back. I'm No. 5 right now. That's a really good feeling. I mean, I don't know what is the difference. My game is pretty much the same, and it will never change. I'm not going to start hitting the balls different. I'm going to keep playing the same way.  
 Q. Do you actually enjoy using your style against all of these big hitters there are today, who seem to just wallop the ball without thinking about angles and slices? 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: I just think about how I play my game, and that's my game. I like my style. Sometimes I wish I had two strong sides, because I feel like tennis has improved, and, you know, every player has a great forehand and a great backhand. I do, but for me, it is hard for me to win points with my backhand. I always go to my forehand, you know what I mean? Sometimes that's hard. But I like my style. What can I tell you? That's why I play that way. 
 Q. But I mean, clearly, tonight, one of the reasons you won is because you had more variety and you could do more with the ball and use the court? 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: That's my game. I mean, that's the only way that I can beat this girl. If I start hitting the ball like they do, I mean, they are better than me. That's the reason why, you know, I win these matches is because I have that variety. That's when I play the best.  
 Q. Can you talk about some of your favorite Web sites? I know you're on the road a lot. 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: I don't really -- I check my e-mail. I check my e-mail, write back. I'm not very good with computers, I must say. But I know they are great, and they are great for information, great to look at sites. But I need to get a better computer.  
 Q. At 4-2 in the second set, did you think that you were going out again and that you were going to lose this one? 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Yeah, I was thinking I was going to lose. I was very close. I started the second set a little bit better, but all of the sudden I turned it around again. The only thing I could do is keep fighting and mix up my pace and hit some balls, take her to the back of the court, and I did that and I had more chances with my forehand. But, yeah, it was not a very good feeling. It was pretty sad out there.  
 End of FastScripts….  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT