CHASE CHAMPIONSHIPS OF THE COREL WTA TOUR
November 16, 1998
Conchita Martinez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  What were your thoughts going into the tiebreaker and how do you feel about the way you played? 
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  I felt like I played up and down.  I had my chances in the first set.  I have so many set balls in that 5-4 and I think I have 15-40 and I didn't take that.  Little bit too passive on my returns.  In the tiebreak, it was really up and down. 
 

Q.  How much of a chance did you feel you had after losing that tiebreaker?
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  It was a little bit uphill after that.  I think I was thinking a lot on the first set and missing those opportunities and then I think my balls were not as - she was hitting them really hard. 
 

Q.  Did you lose your concentration you think?
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  Well, maybe a little bit.  But she played well. 
 

Q.  Did she do anything that surprised you or that you didn't expect?
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  Not at all.  She is a player that hits the ball -- hits every ball very hard and I just think I played too much at her -- I couldn't get the rhythm and the pace of the ball.  Normally if you change a little bit the topspin, which is my game, I would have a better chance, but just hitting-- (inaudible) 
 

Q.  How would you explain your problems here?   You have never done well in this tournament.  You have been here many times.
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  Yeah, I think this is my least favorite surface and indoor.  It is a very tough, very tough to do well because it is only 16 players and they are the best.  From the first round you get a very, very tough round and you have to be really ready.  And, like I said, I mean, playing indoors, it is not my game. 
 

Q.  Do you find yourself thinking about being done with the year almost coming into this tournament, you are so close?
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  It is very hard to keep the year going so long.  It is very hard because we don't have an off-season.  We end the year in November, what, 22nd, and then we have to start in January.  It is like:  Go, go, go.  By the end of the year, any player -- mostly any player you ask, they are either burned out or injured.  So I think it is very, very hard to keep your concentration up until this tournament being so important and, I don't know, I think it is to late to play a tournament. 
 

Q.  How would you characterize your season the whole year?
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  It was -- I mean, at the beginning of the year it was great and until, I think until Wimbledon was  pretty good, much better than last year - winning a Tier I in Berlin and all that.  I was playing pretty good tennis.  Then after Wimbledon then not very good.  But what I have to improve is being consistent with the whole year which I have always been and past two years have not. 
 

Q.  How are you going to warm up for the Australian Open?
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  Sydney.  That is going to be my first tournament. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT