STATE FARM EVERT CUP
March 10, 1998
Conchita Martinez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Conchita, can you talk about your match with Anna Kournikova? Big crowd out of there, going a little nutty. Can you talk about what was the turning point in that match for you? 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Well, I think I have to do my game, no? Try to change the rhythm, play with a lot of topspin. I think I started out slow. After, you know, I could play my slice. I don't think she likes it.  
 
Q. Are you pleased with the way you played out there? 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Yeah. I think, yeah, it went well. You know, the results says. I'm pleased.  
 
Q. And was this a good test for you, playing someone like Anna Kournikova as you get further into the draw? 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Oh, yeah. I mean, I had a really tough first round. And this was a very tough second round. You know, probably that first match helped me, helped my game, you know, to be ready for a tough second round. You know, of course, I'm ready for the quarterfinals.  
 
Q. Conchita, it looked like your strategy was to make sure that she had to hit a big winner. You got a lot of balls back, you were playing a lot of angles. Eventually she was missing. Is that what you were trying to do? 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: She likes to hit the ball really hard. You know, I'm not going to overpower her because, you know, that's not my game. That would be not good if I will try to hit everything. So, you know, I don't think she like my slice. I was trying to move the ball and play low slice, a lot of topspin with my forehand, and wait for the short ball to hit winners.  
 
Q. She looked a little bit confused to me as to what to do. Did you feel that? 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Well, maybe. I mean, maybe -- you know, she's had to play Rubin, which plays heart like her. I think they like to play like that, you know, just hit the ball and all that. If you can -- if you're able to change the pace and the rhythm, this then, you know, it's good that you can confuse them.  
 
Q. Could you compare her game to Hingis'? 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Compare?  
 
Q. Yes. Do you think she's getting close to that level or do you think she still has a long way to go? 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: I think she's a good player. She's a great player. I mean, Hingis probably plays more smart. I mean, she plays the right shot all the time. You know, she's still young and she can learn that, but she has the shots. I mean, she's probably needs a little bit more patience.  
 
End of FastScripts.... 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT