US OPEN
August 30, 1997
Conchita Martinez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  Q. Conchita, obviously very disappointing, especially the second set. Can you explain what happened?
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Well, today, it wasn't my day. I mean, I hurt my back two days ago. It was really bothering me today playing. Obviously, I mean, getting to the ball, you're not getting to the ball as easy as you would get if you were totally fit. That's what I noticed most. So by doing that, I compensate other things. I just was not doing too good. You know, I wasn't playing very aggressive. 
 Q. Essentially the back was the problem; it wasn't her play? 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: She play well. She play a great match. By her playing a great match and me not being out there a hundred percent, that help her to win, you know. But she really play smart. 
 Q. How disappointing is this?  
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Well, more than losing, it's a bad program. It's just a shame because I was in very good shape, playing with a lot of confidence. I had a great summer. When you get hurt, it's not what you want, you know, especially during a Grand Slam. But, I mean, I try my best. I try to play with it, did everything I could to win the match. But it was impossible. 
 Q. And what is the prognosis on the back? 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Sorry? 
 Q. What have the doctors told you about your back? 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Well, how do you say, strain muscle, joint. 
 Q. So is there any time frame about how long it will take to get healthy? 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Obviously, I have to do an x-ray. I heard something about it could be something about my disk. So I have to be careful. It depends what it is. I'll do one thing or the other. I still have doubles to go. If I can play, I will. If it gets worse, we'll see. 
 Q. Conchita, it's kind of funny, you started this year maybe like in the best shape in a long time. 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Yeah. But I've been getting in better shape. I would think I am in very good shape. You know, I mean, it happened the day that it rained the whole day and I played 9 o'clock at night. Obviously, by waiting around a lot, with the humidity and everything, just happen. When those thing happen, you can't control. It just happen, even when you're in great shape. 
 Q. What happened earlier this year with you and Joe? 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Sorry? 
 Q. What happened with you and Joe Brandi, why that didn't work out? 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Yeah, we didn't work out. Sometimes coaches and players, I mean, he's a very good coach and a great person, but we didn't match. There was no chemistry. When that doesn't work, it's better to stop, better for both of us. 
 End of FastScripts….  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT