US OPEN
August 26, 1997
Conchita Martinez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Those four breakpoints at 3-1 in the first set, saving those, was that the key of the entire match right there? 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Well, of course it was very important. You never know what's going to happen if you lose that game or not. But, I mean, I think I was changing ends, playing with the wind two more games. Seems like she had a little trouble with her serve, especially the second serve. You know, I hang in there. I didn't want to give her anything, fight. You know, I was much more consistent than she was.  
 
Q. How is she playing now? 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Well, she's hitting the ball really hard. I mean, but she's making some unforced errors. You know, I mean, of course I'm playing pretty good myself. I've been having three, four good tournaments this summer. I'm very pleased with the way -- I'm very motivated to do well here at the US Open.  
 
Q. Every time she plays, everybody starts to look for some sort of comeback by her, starts looking to what she was before she took so much time off. Is she anywhere near that? Can you make any comments about how she is now? 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Like I said, I think she's making too many unforced errors still. But, I mean, she's hitting the ball hard. You know, she had some bad luck. In Rome, she twist her ankle and couldn't play. I think she needs a lot more matches. Of course, I mean, tennis these days is more difficult because everybody is playing well. If you have a bad draw. All she needs is matches, getting back, to get that rhythm. But we'll see. I mean, of course she has the potential to come back.  
 
Q. She appeared to get winded after some long points. Were you aware of that? 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: She appeared to?  
 
Q. She appeared to tire very quickly. 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Tired?  
 
Q. Tired. 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Well, yeah, sometimes you can see. You normally notice more when the match gets a little bit tighter, more close. I didn't really look. Winning 6-1 and 4-Love, I mean, I didn't think she was tired. I was trying to focus on myself and trying to play point by point; just concentrate on what I had to do.  
 
Q. Are you at all amazed at what's happened to tennis in your country? 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Well, I'm really happy. I mean, yeah, it's really very good feeling to be from Spain, seeing that we having great success. The boys are playing unbelievable tennis. I'm so happy because I know all of them, and they're really nice people. So it's really nice to see Spain doing so well in tennis. I mean, there's so many people playing here at the US Open and doing well, so it's great.  
 
Q. Who were you the closest with? Anyone that you practiced with? 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Well, I used to go out with a few of the players. For example, I mean, I used to practice with Alex, juniors, and with Alberto Costa, you know, some of them. I get along well with most of them.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT