U.S. OPEN
September 6, 1996
Conchita Martinez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. You competed a lot better than you did last year. Did you feel like there were a
couple of key opportunities for you anywhere in the match where you could have gotten on
top of her?

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Yeah, I think that I feel much better during the match. The first
set was only a break and I remember having breakpoints in the second game of the set on
her serve and, you know, it was pretty close. I had a couple of advantage on her serves
and, you know, after that, I hold my serve, but then I again, she broke me early in the
second set and it was tough. I mean, I didn't play very good. The games that she was
serving, I mean, she was tough. I played good and I was aggressive sometimes and I coming
to the net and then suddenly she would come out with a great shot, so I mean, those --
nothing you can do, but she played great.

Q. Can you sense her power less than it was last year; particularly on the serve?

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Well, today, yeah. Today she didn't serve very well. I don't know if
her shoulder is bad or it was windy out there, but she didn't serve as hard.

Q. What about the groundstrokes?

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Well, it is difficult to compare about last year because last year I
didn't play good, so today, you know, I think I played much better. I could have played
topspin and get on top -- (inaudible) but that is probably why.

Q. What was the nature of your injury?

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: I have blisters.

Q. Both feet?

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Yes, it got worse during the match.

Q. What did you do to alleviate it?

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: No, just she taped them. I taped them before the match, but with the
sweat, it went away, so, I have to redo it and they were getting worse and it was good
that I did them.

Q. Did that affect your game?

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: No, not at all. When I call the trainer, it was because it was
hurting, so, you better do it earlier than late. You don't want them to get worse.

Q. What was your strategy going into the match?

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Well, just compete, try to fight for every ball. I was trying to
slice my backhand to her forehand and with my forehand tried to play crosscourt, you know,
trying to take her out of the court. I played some good shots, but she always gets one
ball over the net -- one ball more over the net, so, it was difficult. I was trying to
attack a little bit more going to the net, but she passed me quite well, so, you know.....
that is what I did.

Q. The pace on her ball seemed to increase in the second set. Did you feel that she was
more aggressive in the second set?

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Well, she is aggressive. She has always been aggressive. She always
tries to hit the ball hard and try to attack as much as she can, but, you know, I think,
you know, sometimes she is going to play great shots and you just have to upset that and
try to, you know, get them and try to play the ball deep, but sometimes you can't - if she
plays short, she is going to play very hard.

Q. What do you think you will want to do or can do to finally be able to beat Monica?

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Well, you know, I am very - I am quite happy today with the way that
I played. Finally, I could play my own game against Monica. Before, other matches, I
couldn't even play, so today, it was good. I just have to take my chances when I have them
like when I have a breakpoint, try to make it instead of maybe rush or make stupid mistake
or -- and in that game that she broke me in the second set, the first game that she broke
me, I have 40-Love up, so, you cannot permit those mistakes. You got to take those chances
because in some ways you are going to put pressure on you, so just try to take your
chances.

Q. How can you compare this Monica Seles to the one that was No. 1 in the world until
she had to take her sabbatical and how far is she from getting near that form?

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: I don't know. I think, you know, it is very difficult to compare a
person from now to a few years ago. I mean, obviously everybody changes. Tennis has been
improving -- women's tennis has been improving a lot and every time we play more against
Monica, we are going to get more the game that she plays and we are going to get, I think,
closer to her. And probably, a few years ago, she was playing more near to the baseline.
Now, she plays a little bit farther away, but I don't know if it is because she is not
playing the same way, or because we improve, so, it is difficult to --

Q. You were a good five feet behind the baseline. Did you think about playing closer
in? You were about five feet behind the baseline on a 70-mile per hour serve from her.

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: You are saying I was far away?

Q. Yes. Did you think about moving in?

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Normally, I like to be far away when I return. I mean, I don't feel
comfortable right on the baseline, so, I feel I have more time. Probably today because she
wasn't serving as well and she wasn't serving that hard; particularly with the wind, I
should have moved over a little bit because the wind was taking the ball and sometimes I
make mistakes, but, you know, it is something that I have to work on and I don't feel that
comfortable to the baseline.

Q. Your slice backhand to her forehand was working very well, but there were times it
looked like you go for the top spin backhands down the line for winners which is a shot
you have used against many other opponents. Why did you kind of back off that today?

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: That was part of my tactic playing slice to her forehand because she
wasn't really doing a lot with that shot. I mean, she was just putting it back to my
backhand, that way she couldn't take the initiative and sometimes -- you are right, and
sometimes I have to mix it up a little bit more, but I started doing it in the second set.
Probably that would be part of my next, you know, next match against Monica, I have to mix
it a little bit more and, you know, backhand down the line is quite difficult shot. I
mean, you have to be really in front of you, and if you are not very comfortable and with
a windy day like today, it was one of the most difficult shots, but.....

Q. Do you remember when Seles came in a few years ago, are there any similarities
between how she was at that age and how Hingis is now? 

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: For me, I mean, playing against both players, I think Monica played
much more hard -- I mean, much more, I don't know, more on top of the baseline and had
every, I mean, forehand or backhand was the same, just hit it and it was very difficult.
And she had, I mean, she is lefty, so her serve was pretty difficult to return too. So I
think she was hitting the ball harder than Martina is hitting it now. But Martina is
obviously young and she is going to grow up and she will get some more power, so.....

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT