U.S. OPEN
August 28, 1996
Conchita Martinez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. That was a pretty tough second round match, or so it would appear on paper. Wouldn't
seem so on the court. How do you feel?

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: The truth is I played her last week in San Diego. I won in two sets
also. I don't know. For the second round, it's a very tough match. I play really good out
there tonight. I was really aggressive, tried to move her around. That was a very good
match for me. It gives me confidence.

Q. Were you at all concerned when she took a 2-1 lead in the second set?

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Was I concerned about?

Q. When she went up 2-1 in the second set.

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: I mean, we were on serve. I broke her first service came, but then
lost mine. After that I only lost my serve once. I was serving pretty well. After that,
you know, I made some good returns, some good passing shots. I got it back. 

Q. You seem to be more aggressive the last few weeks. Is there something new in your
training, in your game?

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: No. I would say I've been more aggressive for the last two matches.
I haven't been playing really well the last few weeks. Maybe some matches I play well. I
was very inconsistent. These two last matches I've been playing well. Hopefully can I keep
it up like this and play like this for the US Open. That would be nice.

Q. Can you explain why you are so aggressive now?

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: No. I mean, I'm trying, my whole career, to be aggressive. Sometimes
you can, sometimes you play against some players that are more aggressive than you and you
have to be defensive. What I'm trying to do is be aggressive all the time, maybe go up to
the net a few times like I did tonight. That would really help. I mean, I need some
practice weeks for that to get the confidence.

Q. Were you happy to play on the stadium court?

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Yes.

Q. That it was moved, did that affect you at all?

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: I wasn't happy when they told me. I arrived here at 1:30 and I had
to wait so many hours. I flew from San Diego on Sunday night. I'm pretty tired. It's great
to play on the stadium, the whole crowd. There were a lot of people there watching. It
gives me a chance to play on the stadium before I play next matches. It has pros and cons
to it.

Q. How did you keep yourself occupied during that extra time?

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: I slept, I ate, I did many things. I practiced one more time for
about 20 minutes on center court. When they told me, I tried to accept that that was it. I
tried to take it the positive way. I just waited until 7:30. It went pretty quick.

Q. Do you think it takes something different to win this Grand Slam tournament than,
say, the other Grand Slam tournaments?

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Well, I don't know, because I only won one. I don't know. The Grand
Slams are -- you have to be concentrate for two whole weeks. You have to be very focused.
Maybe this one -- last year was the first time I played good at the US Open. There is a
lot of things that can happen during the day, like traffic. We're staying in Manhattan.
It's a long way to come. I don't know, the crowds, they speak louder or they move. That
doesn't happen in other Grand Slams. That's where the real champion wins, has to
concentrate for these two weeks. Maybe it's the most difficult one.

Q. So at this point are you comfortable playing here? 

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Yeah, yeah. I mean, it took a few years for me to feel comfortable
here. I'm very happy the way I play my last two matches. You know, you just have to try to
be focused during the whole match, don't let anything matter. Sometimes you can do that,
sometimes you can't, at least you try.

Q. What are your expectations at the US Open?

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Well, play good tennis like I did tonight. I know if I play good and
aggressive, I have a lot of chances to go far.

Q. You believe you can win here?

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Well, I think I can win. It's going to be very difficult. Like I
said, if I could be concentrate during the whole two weeks and be consistent. I don't want
to say, "Yes, I'm going to win," because it wouldn't be truthful. I haven't been
playing good till last week, so I'm sort of getting my confidence back. Hopefully these
two matches are going to help keep on going like this.

Q. In the past, what bothered you the most about this place?

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: I don't know. In the past, I was playing a lot on the outside
courts. In the outside courts, people move a lot, they talk loud, you smell food
everywhere. I don't know. If you get a bad day, it gets a lot of wind. Also coming from
the city, like I say, is a long way. A lot of hours here at the courts. I try to get it
together these few years and learn that it is like this and you have to accept it.

Q. With all the controversy about the seedings, do you think that's the reason why a
lot of the women, top seeds in the women's bracket, have lost?

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: All the controversy of?

Q. In the seedings, in the draw.

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: For the women?

Q. Yeah, for women.

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: I don't think they moved players in the women's. I haven't looked at
the draw. I don't know. I think Huber lost and Date. I don't know. The US Open is tough.
There's a lot of tough players here that want to win. I could understand Date losing
because she won in San Diego and she meet Arantxa, Sabatini and myself. Flying from San
Diego Sunday night, arriving at two o'clock in the morning, playing tennis Tuesday, wasn't
an easy match. Things happen. I lost early, too, so.

Q. Do you feel comfortable with the way your draw is set up?

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Like I say, I don't look very far in my draw, just try to go match
by match, try to play the best that I can every match, concentrating on the match counts
first, not in semifinals or quarterfinals.

Q. Do you have a new coach?

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Yeah, through the US Open, I'm working with Peter Moore for this
month, but I haven't done any decisions of a new coach. I make my decision after the US
Open.

Q. How do you feel working without a coach?

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: He's a coach. He hits good. He's a good player. He tells me things.
He's my coach for this. Like I said, I don't have anything definite. I make my decision
after the US Open.

Q. Are you not staying in Manhattan this time?

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Yes, I am. I'm staying at the Mayfair Hotel. I have like my own car,
and that helps. Sometimes transportation gets a little messed up. This time it didn't
happen. It helps. I like driving.

Q. Are you driving from Manhattan yourself?

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Sometimes.

Q. You?

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Yeah, me.

Q. That doesn't get you unnerved coming out?

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: I love it. Gets my adrenaline going, those taxi drivers. 

Q. Be careful.
Q. Don't cut any of them off.

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: I just love it, like I say.

Q. How does it compare to driving at home?

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: More crazy here. In Barcelona we drive very fast. I like driving
fast.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT