XXVI OLYMPIC GAMES
July 28, 1996
Conchita Martinez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Did the fans' reaction bother you at all the last few games? What was your thoughts on what went on out there? 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Once we came off to do the warmup and they announced that, I mean, they started booing. Yeah, I mean, it bothered me. I feel a bit humiliated by the crowd because we are trying to play, we are trying to give -- you know, how do you say? How do you say, spectacle to them. I think we are playing good tennis. I felt a little bit humiliated. I don't think we deserve that. It is a little bit disrespectful for the players who are there. Just if they want to make their point, I mean, you know, they have the right to make their point. But once they made it, they should have stopped because it was very difficult. I mean, I can't explain it being there. And it is not that I wanted to take it personally, but you could.  
 
Q. The last two games, last three games -- 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: The whole time.  
 
Q. -- you were able to block it out and play well the last three games? 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Yeah, I tried. But it is tough for us to go through that because they want to see Agassi play doubles, or Washington. I mean, it is not our fault that they changed the scheduled. It is not our fault that it rained. And, you know, I don't think we deserve that. And, I mean, it was pretty ugly.  
 
Q. I guess a more pleasant thing, I don't cover tennis very often, so pardon maybe the ignorance of the question, how have you done against Mary Joe in the past? Have you -- 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: I have seen her play a couple of games today and maybe couple of games the other day. I don't know my record with her. Sometimes I win, sometimes I don't -- maybe you can ask somebody. Last time we played she beat me on grass, three sets. And so, I mean, she is a great player. I mean, she has good strokes from the back. She is attacking a lot this week, so, you know, just try to play my game, be aggressive and do the best I can.  
 
Q. Are you happy with the way you played this week and the past weeks? 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Yeah, I am quite happy. Today it was a little bit difficult because of the conditions, the rain and all that, and whatever happened after, but, you know, I think today and tomorrow I will try and go out there with a different mentality. It is a new day and hopefully I can play a little bit better than today.  
 
End of FastScripts... 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT