ROGERS CUP
August 21, 2005
Conchita Martinez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Was that kind of a roll of the dice with the conditions today? 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Yeah. I think the wind was pretty hard. I mean, it's an equalizer. You know, it wasn't easy to play out there. I think it was hard to serve, it was hard to volley for Virginia. It was tough. Nobody was playing comfortable actually.  
 
Q. How did it basically change your tactics? 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Well, the tactics... The tactics were pretty much the same. We were not able to do what we needed to do because the ball was moving so much. It wasn't like, okay, one side is against and one side is with it. It was like moving around like this. It was just tough.  
 
Q. What about in terms of playing them? Would you try to hit more to Anna at the net? 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Well, at the end, I think she hit some very good volleys. Maybe at the beginning she missed a bunch, but at the end she hit really good volleys. You know, like I said, it was hard to plan where you were going to hit the ball because at the last moment it was moving so much. Maybe you were thinking of doing something, like returns and stuff, it was tough for us.  
 
Q. What can you say about Martina, the way she's playing at her age, how well she played today? 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Well, it's unbelievable that she can play professionally at her age. I mean, she's doing very well.  
 
Q. Is there any part that is still pretty impressive or some that aren't? 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: She has good volleys and stuff, you know, out there, good hands. She's fit. It's amazing that she can play at that level at her age. But, I mean, it was hard to display very much today, obviously.  
 
Q. What about the fact she's such a good doubles player, even when she was in her prime, the choices she makes and things like that, does she always seem to do the right thing? 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Sure. I mean, she know what she's doing. She play so many tournaments. You know, she's always very well - how you say when you're in your position, following the ball? I mean, I think, of course, with the age you are slower, you're slowing down. But today, I mean, she played well.  
 
Q. What about Anna-Lena? What are her strong points? 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: In doubles?  
 
Q. Yes. 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: I think you saw her hitting the ball very hard. She has a good kick serve. You know, she's improving. I like the way she plays.  
 
Q. You were up a break in both the second and third sets. Must be hard to believe you ended up losing the match. 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: It's hard. It's hard to take. You know, obviously I'm not very happy. You know, that shows you that you always have to continue playing and never give up because, I mean, I think we should have won that. But, you know, with all of the conditions and stuff, they hung in there and at the end they won. You always have to fight till the end.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT