STATE FARM EVERT CUP
March 16, 1996
Conchita Martinez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Conchita, why do you think you weren't able to capitalize on the chances you did have when you had the leads in the match? 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ: If I would know -- I don't know, I certainly have many chances today. I think I was up in all the tiebreakers and, you know, I was pretty up the whole match and -- but I just -- I don't know, maybe, you know, keep the ball in play, but she was hitting unbelievable shots when I have the chances and she made an ace and then it was my fault that I doublefault, but when I went for the first, because I was serving all the time to the backhand, but, you know, I took my chance and, you know, it didn't happened, maybe next time. 
Q. Did she look vulnerable to the backhand earlier; that is why you mentioned you were going to the backhand? 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Well, I was playing to the backhand because every time that I was changing to her forehand, she was making the points; that is why, you know, I went to the backhand. She's got a great backhand and hits it very deep and it's difficult to hit it. But I think that was the game. 
Q. Last time you'd played Steffi was at the French Open last year. Can you see any differences with her game? Last year she had quite a few back problems; physical problems, etc. This being her first tournament back, can you see any differences or is she playing just the same? 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Well, you know, at this stage you can't really change many things. I think she is playing good tennis and, you know, just playing quite the same for me, but she is always good. I mean, that is why she is No. 1 in the world. 
Q. How frustrating is it when both of you are making so many unforced errors and yet neither one of you seemed able to take advantage of the other ones problems? 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Yeah, you are right. We made -- especially in the first set, we made a lot of unforced errors. I don't know. I mean, for me, having Steffi on the other side of the net, it was difficult because she was doing unforced errors -- didn't give me a lot of rhythm and, you know, she plays -- I didn't know where the ball was going to go, so I was kind of expecting -- and, you know, seeing the ball late, but after that, I got used to her game and played much better. 
Q. At the U.S. Open you suffered a pretty bad loss to Monica Seles. And after that, you said, "I didn't have a chance out there." When Monica comes back and is healthy, do you see her as a better player than Steffi or not? 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ: They are two great players, no comparison between both of them. They are totally different. They both play different tennis, but, you know, they are two great players. I mean, I don't think you can say that somebody is better than the other one. I mean, that is something that is, you know, one has got -- when they play we will see, but they are great players. 
Q. You were up 30-Love when you were serving for the second set. Were you nervous at all after that, or what happened? 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Did I what? 
Q. Were you nervous at all or what happened after that? 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ: I really don't remember what happened. I don't know. Probably I was nervous, I don't know. I don't remember that game. 
Q. Does the heat wear you down after a while, mentally, maybe? 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ: It was pretty hot out there, and of course when the points go long, you know, you feel the heat going inside your body and it is kind of difficult, but I think, you know, I lasted pretty good there and I think I was okay. I past the test. 
Q. That first tiebreak you were up 3-1 and you missed, I think a backhand; is that right? Looking back, is that maybe one shot in the match you'd like to have back? Do you remember the one I am talking about? 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ: There were really -- I am not very good remembering what I did. I think that is kind of good, so, you know, probably I missed that shot, but yeah, I think she plays very good when she goes down -- when she is down, I mean, and she didn't make any stupid shot when she was down and give me, you know, an easy shot or make a mistake or something like that. I probably -- I don't know, aim for it a little bit too much. Sometimes I probably -- sometimes didn't go for it at all. So, you know, when you play Steffi, you have to analyze and try to do it better the next time you play her. 
End of FastScripts........ 


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT