STATE FARM EVERT CUP
March 12, 1996
Conchita Martinez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Are you a person who likes to play your way into a tournament so you get better each time or do you like to be tested early to see where you are? 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Well, I would love to play every match like the way I played today. I mean, it is something that I don't have much control over. I try to play well all the time, but, you know, it is good to have some tough matches, so I think like the first match taught me how to keep the concentration up and that is what I was trying today, so everything happens for a reason, I guess. 
Q. How are you finding the practice times? Is it getting a little bit more difficult that the men are here now? 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Oh, yeah. Well, I don't know, today I played just half an hour, I mean-- I mean, I went to play in the stadium and I played from 8:00 to 8:30, so sometimes that is enough; sometimes it is not. If it is not, you know, it is tough. Yesterday you could get like 45 minutes on the court, so it is very, very tough. I mean, you also have the idea to play not so close to here. 
Q. Conchita, do you think playing earlier in the day helps you too? 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Well, if I wanted to play on stadium that was the only chance I have, to tell you the truth. And I think being the No. 2 seed and the No. 2 in the world, I mean, I deserve to play on the stadium, so it was my choice to play at 10:00 or play on the other courts, so, you know, I much rather play on the stadium. I mean, I don't really love playing at 10:00, but, you know, so far it works, so that is -- I mean, of course, now it is going to be hotter out there and I have to play tomorrow, so it helped me a little but, yeah. 
Q. Conchita, there are a lot of people, fans on the stadium court, but are they very loud, do you feel that they are being very active? 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Well, today there was not a lot of people on the court. But, yeah, they can get a little bit loud, you know, but because there wasn't that many people, I couldn't feel, you know, it. 
Q. You seem to be very confident with the way you are playing. You seem -- you say I love to play every match like the way I played today. I gather you think your game is in very good order? 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Yeah, I mean, I think. Like I played today, I am very happy. I played aggressive. My forehand was working. My slice was aggressive too, and I didn't give her much chances to, you know, -- because she hits the ball hard. It is not easy, but I took the initiative of the point earlier than she did, so -- 
Q. Whose clothes are you wearing? 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Ellesse. 
Q. Are you comfortable with the wrap skirt that flies open? Are you aware that it opens? 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Yes, can you see anything? 
Q. Does it bother you? 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Well, if it is really windy, it bothers me, but if not, it is okay. I keep it interesting so people are looking. 
End of FastScripts........ 


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT