WTA TOUR CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 17, 1995
Conchita Martinez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Conchita, you were obviously very angry, very upset in there.  What exactly was the problem?
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  I was 5-4 down, and as you know, I'm injured.  I need ice.  I did it yesterday, I did it today to that point.  And the tour director, whatever, they said -- they can't help me.  I mean one of your worst enemy is on your own tour; very difficult.  You have to fight against two people. And that was the worst moment to say 5-4 down, and just to wait until they pull you out of balance.  I couldn't do much after that. 
 

Q.  Conchita, do you know who called the tournament referee out?
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  I did, because when they said we cannot help you, I said can you call the tournament referee, and she said it's in the rule book.  And I'm going to check every single word in the rule book.  If I don't find it, they're going to get in trouble, because it's just not possible. 
 

Q.  You felt that because you had the ball girl apply the  ice in the match against Majoli, you could have it today?
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  No, my own official asked the ball girls to help me in the turnaround.  Because I get tired when I do it myself.  I did it yesterday, I did it today.  And they come out at 5-4 and tell me.  That pulls you totally out of balance, that's not right. 
 

Q.  Can you explain why you decided not to have an MRI test done on the neck this week?
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  Because it wasn't a matter of one day or another, probably tomorrow.  Or if I have a chance I'll do it.  I decided to do it after the tournament. 
 

Q.  Was the neck bothering you during the match?
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  It wasn't bad.  I was quite tired, but it was much, much better today. 
 

Q.  What was different about Brenda this time than previous times you've played her?
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  She served very good.  And, you know, she's a good player.  She doesn't give you any rhythm, but after that happened, I'm 5-4, I mean, I wasn't there anymore. 
 

Q.  You dropped the first set the other night, but you came back to win.  Were you just so upset by what happened that you couldn't come back tonight?
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  Yeah, too many enemies, you know.  You have to play against your opponent and then you find out that you have so many enemies that it's difficult to fight back, you  know.  It's like very disappointing. 
 

Q.  Had the ball girl been holding the ice on your neck before 5-4, on every changeover?
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  Yesterday every match.  And today every changeover until 5-4, and they decided to say right in that moment.  I think it's just not right.  And I tell you, this is not going to stay like this. 
 

Q.  She wondered after the tournament if your neck played a role.  You sound like not so much or do you think it did?
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  Right now, I mean I cannot even think of my neck.  I'm just too mad to think about that.  I'll try my best to get it fixed. 
 

Q.  Do you think it might hamper your ability to play in the Fed Cup?
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  I don't know.  Hopefully, I'm going to be able to do that.  Hopefully I'm going to do my best.  Maybe I'm going to get it fixed by then, but if I'm okay to play it I will. 
 

Q.  Did she give you any explanation at all, the chair umpire?
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  Well, the chair umpire didn't say it, the director say it.  The director, tour director, I don't know who.  But it's in the rule books, she said.  I tell you, I'm going to look at the rule book, every single word.  And if I don't find it -- so that was the explanation that the ball boy cannot assist, only one player. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT