U.S. OPEN
September 2, 1995
Conchita Martinez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Conchita, you seemed to resent one of your legs when you were playing.

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: No, actually, it was my foot. It was -- I did something during my
doubles matches today, and it's not quite -- I did something wrong, and there was a little
bit short, but it's okay right now.

Q. Which foot?

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: It's my right foot.

Q. Was it as simple or as easy as it looked?

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Sorry?

Q. Was it as simple as the scores?

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: No, it wasn't easy at all. I mean, we have a couple of long games
there in my service game which I was up, and then she came back and, you know, I was
serving a lot, and I just have very good plays. She hits the ball hard and, you know, if
you let her, she's -- it could be a really good match. But I'm very happy the way I played
tonight,, so I'm improving every day.

Q. She said that your heavy top spin hurt her, was that your strategy to give her that?

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Yeah. I mean, I'm trying to give to her in the baseline like, you
know, with high balls so she couldn't hit the ball as comfortable like she would like to.
And, you know, because if you let her short balls, she's going to like hit and it could be
difficult.

Q. Can you talk a little bit about how well you have been playing this summer; I mean
you're unbeaten?

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Yeah, I've been playing very good this summer. I played very good.
And I feel with a lot of confidence and yes, it was difficult to start a tournament, and
the U.S. Open early. I mean, you're going to have a little bit of problems the first
matches because it's always like nervous and blah-blah, but, I mean, as long as the
tournament is going on, I mean, I'm improving every day. So hopefully my next match will
be better than this one.

Q. You played Zina who is an American and has sort of emerged as a sentimental favorite
here; what do you expect from that match? 

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Well, I expect -- first of all, I'm going to have to deal with the
crowd because, of course, playing against an American for sure there is going to be a lot
of people on her side, and, you know, I'm going to try to concentrate on my match, on my
game and try to play the best that I can and try not to let that bother me.

Q. Are you surprised that you played so well on this hard court surface? I think, a lot
of people would think of Europeans as being more comfortable on the clay.

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: No. Actually, I'm not surprised at all. I mean, I have the game to
play on hard surfaces, on fast surfaces, I mean, I'm having a lot of good results and, you
know, I'm improving all the time every year and I feel that this year I play very good on
hard courts and hopefully I can keep up this year's Open that good.

Q. What's it like hearing a win streak like this that you've had for this summer, I
think it's up to 13 now and you've had so many good tournaments?

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: It's okay. It's great for my confidence. It feels like I'm playing
good tennis and it gives me confidence which is super because it's always very difficult
Grand Slam; there are a lot of distractions here and feeling that you coming here with
good wins, playing good, being happy, you know, it's everything matches you.

Q. Has this been a perfect summer for you?

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Well, it's been quite a perfect one, yeah.

Q. Quite?

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Quite a perfect one. I mean, I play, you know, those tournaments and
one in London and play great tennis and, you know, when I'm playing good tennis I'm happy
too, so it's quite perfect.

Q. What would winning here do for your summer?

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Oh, it would give me a great relief and I will have good holiday I'm
sure.

Q. Why a great relief?

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: No, because I -- you know, I never played real good at this
tournament and, you know, coming here is always a little bit of nerves, you know, see if
I'm going to play good this year or, you know, I can't concentrate, but I think I'm ready
this year to play, but...

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT