FAMILY CIRCLE CUP
April 2, 1995
Conchita Martinez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Well, congratulations, number two.
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Thank you. 
 

Q.  Were you surprised at the speed of this singles match?
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Yeah, a little bit.  Yeah, I expected a little bit of tougher match.  I mean, I don't mean that it wasn't tough, but the result, you know, 6-1, 6-1 in a final is really difficult to get so, you know, I'm very glad I played great tennis today and, you know, that's great. 
 

Q.  We understand that Maggie was very upset now.  Did you have any indication that something was wrong with her?
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ: She is very upset? 
 

Q.  That was the indication out there.
 
DEBBIE EDWARDS:  No, no. 
 

Q.  Yeah, she was in tears in the parking lot.
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ: I don't know. 
 

Q.  Do you get the feeling she seemed frustrated from the very beginning of the match?
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ: I don't know.  I mean, I was trying to play my game and, you know, trying to have a lot of patience and hitting high balls and she didn't have the patience, and especially on clay court, you know, you have to have a lot of patience and you know I did today.  But at least she made the mistakes because I forced her. 
 

Q.  What happened in the only laps you really had, I think, was in the third game; you lost -- you made like three errors in a row and doublefaulted, other than that, what happened in that game, you just lose concentration a bit?
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ: I don't know.  You can't keep up all the games the same level.  It's very difficult.  I don't know, I mean, sometimes you have lapses like that that you make a couple of mistakes, but then you recover and keep going. 
 

Q.  It seemed like in the second set she started to come in earlier a little bit and pressure you a little bit.
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Yeah, actually in the -- I think it was the third game of the second set it was really important game because she was -- I think I was playing a little bit too passive and let her be aggressive and she was pushing me and that was a very, very important game that I won that because, you know, she was -- you know, sometimes you can lose a little bit of confidence and, you know, play a little bit short and she can hit the ball hard. 
 

Q.  Was that the very long game you're talking about?
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Yeah. 
 

Q.  Did you think that you had it after that, after that very long game?
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Well, I didn't think anything in particular.  It was very important that I won it because I played her and I was serving and I was serving quite well, especially I was playing -- I mean, maybe you couldn't feel the wind but I did and I was going to play with the wind and so it gave me a lot of  confidence. 
 

Q.  Did the weather conditions favor your game do you think?
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ: I don't see why.  It was great weather, you know. 
 

Q.  Was it constant or was it a little blustery out there?  Does that affect your top spin strokes a little bit?
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ: I mean, it wasn't that much wind at all.  It was a little bit -- I mean, you could feel it, but I didn't -- it didn't bother either of us.  I mean, you have to probably take a little bit of care if you are playing against the wind to hit a little bit harder, but I mean, we're talking a very little wind. 
 

Q.  You're beginning to like this place.  Last year you lost four games in the finals, this year you lost two.
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Yeah, I'm now beginning to.  I really like it.  I play great tennis.  I won this last year, I think I made one final before that against Gabi, if I'm not wrong.  I don't know, so I played great tennis and, you know, this place is very nice and very relaxing. 
 

Q.  The back to backs put you in the list of Graf, Navratilova, Sabatini, Austin and Evert here as to back-to-back champions.  First of all, that's a very illustrious list, where does that set you the stage for taking that one match step or level that puts you with Sanchez Vicario and Graf?
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Well, I probably have to be a little bit more consistent in my results.  I guess last year at the end of the year I didn't play that good and so, you know, I probably should put everything together and try to play good the whole year like they do and, you know -- but there is a lot of time and, you know, I'm still young and I can get better.  And with the help of Carlos, hopefully I'm going to be more consistent. 
 

Q.  Will there be a lot of difference in your game?
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ: I mean, not yet, it's difficult in three weeks to say.  You know, we need time to know each other more.  But he helped me a lot these three weeks that we've been working; especially mental and, you know, give me a lot of power. 
 

Q.  When did you start practicing on clay?  You were one of the few who chose not to play -- you didn't play Lipton.
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ: No, I stopped playing. 
 

Q.  When did you start playing on clay?
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Clay?  This is my third week already.  I was in Miami. 
 

Q.  So right after Delray then?
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Yeah. 
 

Q.  Do you think that helped you?
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Oh, yeah.  I mean, of course you always need time to change surfaces and, yeah, always people who played Lipton and came back here, they had a little bit of problems because it's not that easy to get used to, you know, to clay or to wherever you go. 
 

Q.  So you felt comfortable then from the very start?
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ: I felt comfortable.  I was working on clay for two weeks or even less than that,  so after Houston. 
 

Q.  Did you make the choice not to play Lipton to play the Family Circle?
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ: It didn't go really like that.  I normally don't play Lipton and so it worked great for me because this year, especially Lipton, is the week before Hilton Head, so it went good for me. 
 

Q.  Why did you play so well here do you think? Is it more relaxing here maybe than other tournaments or you just like the atmosphere here?
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ: I don't know, I guess it was time to play good.  Hopefully I can keep going like that and keep my game on that level. 
 

Q.  Any special feeling like you said earlier about being -- winning the titles back-to-back?
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Yeah, it's a really great list, great names and I'm really honored to be on that list. 
 

Q.  Conchita, is this your first title since Wimbledon?
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ: No. 
 

Q.  What other?
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Stratton Mountain. 
 

Q.  In that last game when she had the advantage it seemed you like you really wanted to go out and finish the game in less than an hour.
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ: No. I mean, I look at the clock and say I have to finish?  No. 
 

Q.  You know, the point I'm talking about is when she had the advantage in the last game and you made three or four -- you ran off the point to get a couple of balls.
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ: I don't know, I don't remember. 
 

Q.  In hindsight it's apparent that she really didn't have any big time weapon to penetrate your game. Did you think if you played decently when you went out on the court today that you could beat her and that you were going to win the match?
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Well, as I say, she can play very good and she can hit the ball hard, but I think I played a good game, that she wasn't was in trouble, but she did miss a lot.  I mean, her shots didn't go, like, that far.  I mean, they weren't, like, that out, so that's helpful.  But I guess she didn't like the way I play. 
 

Q.  Was she nervous at all?  Did you think she was nervous at all?
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Yeah, probably she was nervous. 
 

Q.  She seemed to be very frustrated with several line calls that were very close that went against her and then several shots that -- two overheads that she netted.
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ: She probably was frustrated but not for the course, because I clay -- I mean, the mark is there so the umpires didn't make mistake. 
 

Q.  Oh, I'm not saying that.
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ: And probably because they were out by this little bit.  I mean, if they went in it was probably point but -- 
 

Q.  You passed her several times quite easily when she came to the net and she then hit a ball into the stands to, I guess, ventilate her frustration.
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Yeah.  I mean, probably.  I mean, when you play against a player that is playing her good tennis, you get a little frustrated. 
 

Q.  Conchita, what is your schedule?
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ: I'm going to Amelia Island and then I'm going home.  I don't know what's going to happen. 
 

Q.  Barcelona?
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Yeah. 
 

Q.  Rome?
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Hamburg and Rome. 
 

Q.  You had a real tough match on Friday.  Do you feel like your confidence that you gathered last year kind of helped you through that?
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Oh, yeah.  I mean, to win a title gives you a lot of confidence.  I mean, it is a great feeling and I think very -- 
 

Q.  Did winning that match Friday help you in these last two?
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ: I was close. I mean I was losing that match and I kept back winning and that doesn't happen really often, so that was good. 
 

Q.  This makes you the all-time leading money winner in Family Circle Cup history.
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Sorry? 
 

Q.  You're the all-time leading money winner in Family Circle Cup, does that mean anything to you?
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Well, not really.  I prefer -- I mean I'm not looking for the money so much.  You know, it's a great feeling being champion. 
 

Q.  You're not going to give the check back though?
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ: No. 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT