FAMILY CIRCLE CUP
March 28, 1995
Conchita Martinez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Not much of a workout today for you, is that the type of match you like or --

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Well, it's a good first match.  I mean, I think I played pretty well.  She made the mistakes, I mean, I try to make her do that, and it was quite easy match today.


Q.  How are you playing now as compared to this time last year?

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: How am I playing right now?  I think I'm doing pretty well.  You know, I haven't -- I have to keep going playing matches on clay and, you know, that will give me the confidence to win some tournaments.


Q.  You appear to have a lot more confidence this year than last year.

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Well, I don't know if you can see that in one match; especially in this match.  I mean, I feel all right.  I mean, I feel that I need some more matches, you know, to play my best tennis. Today, I mean, she didn't give me that much of competition, you know, to prove myself.


Q.  Was there a different feeling for you out there being a defending champ?  Is there more pressure, less pressure?

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: No, I try not to have any pressure at all.  I mean, I go there and it's great to be back here, great weather, great place, you know, it's very relaxing.  You don't need to put pressure on you because like that you're not going to play good.


Q.  Did the fans act any differently?

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: They recognize me.  But, you know, it's quite the same.


Q.  Mosquitos didn't bother you?

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Yesterday they did a little bit.  (LAUGHTER.)


Q.  Were you disappointed that Pierce and Graf are not here?

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Yeah. I mean, I don't know why -- especially -- I mean, Graf, she was not going to come, but Pierce and Davenport pull out at the last moment, I think injury or -- so, you know, it's nothing that you can do about it.


Q.  This is your surface.  You'd like to get them on this surface and you've got a few weeks before the French Open coming up.

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Yeah, I mean, this is the first tournament I have played and I have many, many more to play to get ready for Roland Garros.


Q.  Conchita, can you talk a little bit about the relationship that you've just started with Carlos and what the deal is?

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: You know, this is our first tournament and we've been working, like, two weeks now practicing.  And our relationship is great. He's a great guy and a good coach and, you know, it's kind of knowing each other a little bit.  It's very difficult, you know, we need a little bit more time,  you know, to see what, you know -- I don't know, to know each other.  It's difficult to talk about your first tournament, but, you know, he's a great guy, I really like to be with him.


Q.  What are you hoping he can do for your game?

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Well, I hope we can sort of work, you know, on everything that is missing to, you know, get to the -- up to like to No. 1.  And I think he has great mentality and very positive and, you know.  With me sometimes that is missing, so, you know, hopefully he can put all the things together and try to teach me.


Q.  What do you think you're missing?

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: I mean -- you can ask him.   I mean, it's many things.  I mean, I have to, you know, work some more and, you know, be more aggressive and all that, you know, maybe working on that.


Q.  But people misinterpret.  You obviously had an impressive game on Wimbledon which is on fast grass court.  I think people peg you into clay court too much.  They think you're just a clay court --

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: You know, I grew up on clay courts, but I think I proved that I can play on any surface.  I mean, I win tournaments on any surface; indoors grass, clay.  So, you know, I think I'm kind of all-court player.  I still like a little bit more clay but, you know, I get used to every surface.


Q.  What sort of effect did winning here last year have on the rest of your season?   I mean, did it give you a lot more confidence?

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Oh, yeah.  I think it was the first time that I won last year.  And, you know, that gives you a lot of confidence, you know, to -- you know, a win in a tournament gives you like -- oh, I'm there and I can win so many more.  You know, it gives you confidence.  And if you don't win, you know, you kind of, like, hoping that you win one.


Q.  Are you in the same sort of position this year as far as your confidence level going into the tournament, you think?

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Yeah -- I -- I play the finals in Del Ray Beach which was very good for my confidence and, you know, right now I'll say, you know, I'm a little bit more up than last year.


Q.  How long is your deal with Carlos?  Do you have a contract?

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Well, hopefully through the whole year.


Q.  Why does a player of your level switch coaches?

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Why?  Because, you know, all relationships have to end sometime.  Not all of them but, you know, sometimes they don't work anymore or, you know.


Q.  The injury that you had in Del Ray, that's --

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: That's gone, yeah.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT