VIRGINIA SLIMS CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 18, 1994
Conchita Martinez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Conchita, the fact that you weren't able to take advantage of those five match points, do you feel that's because you haven't been winning many matches recently? 

CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  Well, I don't know, I mean, I can't find an explanation to lose five match points.  I think I probably rushed a little bit and I wanted to finish and I was very excited to do it, and you know, you can't be like that you have to have your head cool and try to, you know, be aggressive and don't wait for the mistake for the other one, you know, make it first. 


Q.  Are you shocked? 

CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  No, I'm not shocked.  No, what can I do?  I'm disappointed because I had it right there.  It was, you know, one more point and I couldn't do it.  So, I mean, through the match, I was mad, but at this hour, you have to forget about it.  You know, what can you do? 


Q.  How do you feel you played overall today? 

CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  I played well.  I mean, I fight, I did my best, I probably, you know, if I could play that tiebreaker again, I probably was going to be more concentrated.  I don't know, I mean, you know, it went so quick, that I didn't have a chance. 


Q.  What about the way she played against you? 

CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  What? 


Q.  What about the way she played against you? 

CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  Like always.  I don't think she can play differently.  She hits the ball flat and, you know, and it's tough because I was trying to move her with my slice, because she makes a lot of mistakes with it, but, still, you know, I didn't have to do so many mistakes also.  It's tough. 


Q.  Conchita, since Stratton Mountain, where obviously you played very well, the results have sort of tailed off; do you think you played too much this year or have you found it hard to live up to a Wimbledon champion or -- 

CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  No, I played pretty well in San Diego, I played good in L.A., you know, and after that, I probably don't play my best tennis indoor course, which I don't like it at all.  And it's always tough.  You know, probably next year I have to play less indoor tournaments and, you know, but I have to forget about it.  I think I had a wonderful year and just forget this match and be ready for next year. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT