U.S. OPEN
September 2, 1994
Conchita Martinez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. I know it's always disappointing to lose. How disappointed are you now? 

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Quite a lot. But, not only from losing, but I think I could have
fight a little bit more today. 

Q. Did she play better or do you think you played not up to your normal standards? 

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: I played normal, she's a good player. But I think I just didn't play
well enough. I didn't fight in the third set. I don't know. 

Q. Why didn't you put up more of a fight in the third set? 

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: I tried, but it was like I got into a negative way of thinking and
too many things in my head and I couldn't get out of it. 

Q. Do you think it was going so easily for you in the beginning that you just thought
it was going to go like that for the rest of the match? 

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Not really, because I was playing well, but after I lost my
concentration, it just went away and it was difficult. When you're not concentrating, you
know, and you're playing against a good players, it's always very dangerous. 

Q. Conchita, you said the other night that at the Open, there were so many distractions
and it's difficult for you to concentrate; did that come into effect in this match at all.


CONCHITA MARTINEZ: I don't know. I guess it's really distracting because every year it
happened to me. I just can't get to the third, fourth round. You know, it gets in my head
too. 

Q. Conchita, you said there were too many things in your head in the third set which
prevented you from fighting. Can you tell us what some of the things were? 

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: They're my things. 

Q. Do you remember the overhead you missed on breakpoint? 

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Yes. 

Q. What went through your mind or what happened on that point? 

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: It was a really important point. It would have been 4-3 for me and
my serve which I wanted, so it would be 5-3 for me and the match is nearly over. But then
you miss a shot, then you think the match, maybe -- 

Q. How did you miss it? 

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: How did I miss it? No one is perfect. Everyone can miss. That's
sure. 

Q. You said you were thinking about that too much? 

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: I thought about that a lot because it could have give me 5-3 in the
second, and, you know, still, if you miss those shots, you have to keep fighting and have
to keep trying to come back. 

Q. How do you explain 6-1 in the third set; did she play that well, did you play badly
or both? 

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: She played well and I played bad. 

Q. Conchita, there were several times on your serve, first serve, where at crucial
points you really let up, you served in the 60s or low 70s sometimes; was that a sign you
were getting tentative? 

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: She has a good return, hit the ball very hard and so I was trying to
put the first serve in. 

Q. There was nothing wrong with your shoulder? 

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: No. 

Q. Arm? 

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: No. 

Q. Tell me about the win at Wimbledon; did you have high expectations to do real well
here? 

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: I always thought that this is a very difficult tournament and I
wanted to play good tennis and be happy playing tennis. I mean, I wasn't expecting to, you
know, win it all. I was trying to play match by match and trying to play my best. And if
you play good, if I play well, I know that I can do very good. 

Q. Did you feel like you were under pressure the last set? 

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Under pressure, no, not at all. 

Q. Conchita, would you say that that one shot meant the match, in a way? 

CONCHITA MARTINEZ: I mean, you can't blame the match only for one shot. So-- like, if
you miss it. You have plenty of shots to make the match. That was a very important point,
but if you miss it, you have to come back. 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT