FAMILY CIRCLE CUP
April 3, 1994
Conchita Martinez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  How does it feel to be only the 7th  player to win the FAMILY CIRCLE CUP?  

CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  It feels really good because I know it  is such an important tournament and it is really  important for me to win here.  And it is really a  special tournament because Bunny Williams and Dede  Paterson really took care of me, and everything is  so perfect.  And I really don't miss anything.  It  has just been like at home.  It is really  beautiful tournament.  


Q.  Seemed like after your injury timeout  you won a couple of games before that, but it  seemed like you improved after the injury  timeout.  What factor did that play?  Did that  help a lot?  

CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  I don't know.  I think she was a little  bit tired in the second set.  You could feel  that.  And yeah, after my injury timeout  everything went, like, perfect.  I mean, I didn't  lose one game, and I really played well.  


Q.  How were your blisters affecting you  today?  Did they bother you?  Can we see them?  

CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  Today?  No -- yeah, they bother me at  the beginning.  Especially in my left foot.  But  then when it got warmup, it was better.  But my  right foot today wasn't that good.  So, you know,  I tried the injury time because the padding moves,  and she had to do a new one again.  


Q.  She said that most of your matches are  like  one -- where the first set is really close  and then you seem to break away?  

CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  Yeah. I mean, probably in the first  set, it is really tough.  I mean, we played a  really tough match in Australia, in Australian  Open.  That was -- I think I won the first set,  and then she won the second, and then the third  set was really tough.  That was one of the  toughest matches.  And -- but normally, you know,  I don't know, maybe she gets a little bit tired or  she -- I don't know, because it was good in the  second set.  I didn't miss, and I played all the  time the right shots.  


Q.  Conchita, you think maybe she was  getting a little impatient at times?  You were  playing a steady game, your control was there, you  were moving her around.  

CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  Yeah, that is why she started making  mistakes because I really tried to play some high  balls in the backhand, and she wasn't patient at  all today.  


Q.  How about the prize money.  Do you have  to put that into a trust or do you get to spend  it?  

CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  If I get what?  


Q.  Do you put it into a trust or do you  get to spend the prize money?  

CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  Well, no.  I am not the kind of person  that spend the money just like that.  If I need  something I buy it because I know I can, but I  really don't spend the money just like that.  I  take care of the money because in the future you  never know what is going to happen, so you have to  watch the money now.  I am planning well for the  future.  


Q.  Is this your biggest paycheck?  

CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  No, no.  I won Philadelphia before and  Rome, they were the same, I think.  


Q.  Conchita, as far as your goals, are you  looking more now at trying to win a Grand Slam or  maybe overtaking Arantxa and going for No. 1?  

CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  I am looking to play my best tennis in  any tournament.  I am looking to play happy and to  be happy the way I am playing.  I know the results  will come.  Of course, I would like to win a Grand  Slam.  That will be perfect and, you know, I am  really near Arantxa, so I don't know, I am working  on it.  I am working on getting better and better  everyday.  


Q.  Do you think this tournament win; it  being such a big tournament gives you a little bit  more recognition - you were overlooked even though  you were the 3rd ranked player in the world?  

CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  Probably, because it is in the states  and this is such a big tournament, and I am hoping  the people are going to know me a little bit  better and go for me more.  


Q.  Will you be working on your net game  and start going to the net more?  

CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  Not really.  


Q.  You don't anticipate doing that?  

CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  In the match today?  


Q.  Ever trying to make your game a more  complete game where you will be able --  

CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  I really need that because every time  that I go to the net, "oh my God, what is going to  happen now."  Yeah, I have been practicing, but  since I am not confident to go in the matches.  Probably I am the kind of person, if I miss one,  after I lose my confidence and I don't go again.  I have to practice on it and try to get confidence  because I know I can win a lot of points at the  net because I have good shots from the baseline,  so I could finish the point earlier.  


Q.  How do you feel about your chances to  win the French title since that is on clay?  

CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  That is quite far away from now.  If I  play like that and every time improving my game, I  think I have probably a chance to win it.  Everybody is there and everybody can play and  everybody is difficult to beat at this time.  But  I will try my best.  I think that it is my perfect  -- my preferred surface, clay, red clay, and I  will try my best.  I wish I could.  


Q.  How much confidence-- when you beat  Steffi in Philadelphia, how much did that help  your confidence?  

CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  It helped me a lot because it was at  the end of the year and I was really tired and  physically and mentally I needed a rest and it  helped me a lot because that means that if I win a  tournament at the end of the year, being so tired,  and that-- so I was really proud of myself because  sometimes when you are that tired, you go, oh  forget, it I am too tired, I need some rest, but I  fight and that was really a positive thing to me.  


Q.  How did you play in this tournament  compared to how you had been playing?  I mean, did  you play better in this tournament than you had  coming in?  

CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  I didn't play really good the first few  rounds.  Today in the final I played a little bit  better.  Everything went, you know, I was a little  bit more loose after winning the first set, but I  think I can play better; especially my forehand.  It wasn't working the way I wanted it to.  


Q.  You had you had such a great year last  year.  Why do you think that happened and do you  think you can keep going?  

CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  Well, you know, probably because I have  been working and especially my physical condition  was better last year because I work on that, on  that part, and if you feel strong out there on the  court, you know that you can play your best  shots.  


Q.  So during your time off, do you work a  lot on your physical condition?  

CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  Yeah, I try to work on my physical  because I know I need it because if you are not  prepared, you are not reaching the ball early  enough then you go like -- they kill you.  


Q.  Conchita, what shots do you feel have  been really working the best both?  Your topspin  and slice backhands were really clicking today.  

CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  Yeah, they were working good today.  My  topspin was going deeper than yesterday, and the  slice was working good.  Everything -- I was  really patient, and I didn't make many mistakes,  so it was -- I wish I could play a little bit more  of my forehand.  Normally I do win a lot of points  with it, but I don't know, it will come.  


Q.  Were you surprised at how quickly the  second set went by and how you played?  

CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  Probably a little bit because normally  my concentration always go when I am winning easy  and yeah, I was surprised, I tried to fight every  point and tried to win every point because I knew  that you know, she gets like 3-2 or 3-All, it  would be difficult for me.  


Q.  Could you feel that she was losing  interest or losing resolve or --  

CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  I could feel that she was tired,  though.  I could feel that because she was -- she  saw that I wasn't making mistakes; she was getting  a little bit -- not enough patience to hang in  there and try to get the ball on the court and she  was making mistakes.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT