FAMILY CIRCLE CUP
April 1, 1994
Conchita Martinez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  What did you think about the match?  
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  Well, I think it was a pretty good  match for me.  I think I played well and  everything was good for me.  I played solid and  without making many mistakes, and aggressive, and  you know, that was good.   
 

Q.  Where did she fall down- where did she  come up short?  What was she doing wrong as far as  you are concerned, because it was pretty easy?  
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  Well, it was good.  I think I tried to  push her a little bit with my balls.  I tried to  play a little bit high balls and come with my  forehand and try to finish the point.  I think she  tried to hit everything with her forehand and she  was making mistakes, of course, but it wasn't easy  to hit those balls.  I played good.  I served  good.  Everything went the right way.   
 

Q.  What do you think about Majoli beating  Davenport?  
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  I didn't see any of the match.  But I  mean, it is good for Majoli, she is playing well,  I guess.   
 

Q.  Have you seen her play?  
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  No, I was on court.   
 

Q.  Have you seen her play before?  
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  Yes, not in this tournament.   
 

Q.  What do you think of her game?  
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  Well, I have to discuss it with my  coach.  She is a good player.  She can play good,  but you know, see what happens tomorrow.  I will  try my best and try to win the match.   
 

Q.  Conchita, you seem very patient today  and just let her make the mistakes.  It seemed  like you played your game and you let her make the  errors?  
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  That is the way I play.  Not try that  the other one make the mistakes, but try to play  high balls and wait for the short balls to hit it  with my forehand.   
 

Q.  You had to struggle in an earlier  round.  What was the difference today; do you  think?  
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  Well, I really played really a bad  match in the first round.  It was really windy and  you know, nothing went right for me.  I was  playing the forehand; wasn't working and I was  playing short and I was letting her play.  Every  time I am proving, I need a little bit more time  to improve every match, and it is happening.   
 

Q.  You feel good about the way you are  playing now?  
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  Yeah, I am playing better everyday, so  I hope it goes better better everyday.   
 

Q.  How confident do you feel going to the  semifinals?  
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  I feel very confident.  I mean, I had  good match today.  I finished at 1:00 and I have  the whole day to relax and wait for the  semifinals.   
 

Q.  Would you contrast how you are playing  now versus how you played at Wimbledon; is it as  good as?  
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  Well, I mean it is totally different.  This is clay.  Wimbledon was grass and you know,  of course, you play different.  I prefer to play  here.  Wimbledon, that was a really good  tournament for me.  I played really good matches  there.  Here, I am playing good tennis, I mean, I  am feeling confident.   
 

Q.  Are you surprised that Davenport lost  at all?  
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  I think she said it before - she is not  used to the clay.  I mean, I think she plays  better on hard court and I don't know, I didn't  see her play.  It is difficult to answer.   
 

Q.  Since you are finished so early, do you  really relax, or do you take some practice from  now until tomorrow?  
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  No, no, I am not going to practice  anymore.  I am going to relax and I am not going  to practice tennis.  I will just probably do some  physical work, but not much.  I have to you know,  relax a little bit.   
 

Q.  It seems that during the tournament the  attention has been on so many other players; that  it is not really focused on you.  Do you like  that?  
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  I don't really, you know, I guess I  have to play for myself, try to win and I know I  am there and if I am winning the matches doesn't  mean the finals or whatever, I don't really care,  but for me it is okay.   
 

Q.  Thank you.   

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT