VIRGINIA SLIMS CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 19, 1993
Conchita Martinez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Can you tell us about your back problem -- 

CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  Well, I started feeling probably in my low back, it is a muscle-- did you tell them?  It's a strain of the mid and lower back and I have the muscle, we'll type it up. 


Q.  Did it happen during the match or did you go into the match with it? 

CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  Well, before the match I have little problems, but nothing.  During the match it started getting worse and worse, especially with the serve. 


Q.  How did it happen in the first place, do you know, can you remember? 

CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  Just serving, maybe.  I don't know, maybe-- I couldn't rotate good, so, you know, maybe I was scared to do the normal things, and it start more and more. 


Q.  Is it the first time you have this problem? 

CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  No, I normally have problems with my low back. 


Q.  So you were one of the few women who doesn't have too many injuries this time of the year-- 

CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  Sorry? 


Q.  Everybody is injured nowadays in the women's tour, why? 

CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  Everybody is injured?  I don't know, why.  For me I'm going to talk about me.  I don't know about the other ones, but for me it's been a good year, not many injuries, and, I mean, this is a problem.  I mean, it's a pulled muscle, you cannot really do anything, and it is not very, very important, maybe in three days with massage and treatment I will be much better, but, I mean for me I'm very happy because I could handle very good the injuries.  I mean, I didn't have nearly any injuries this year. 


Q.  But it must be very disappointing for you after winning Philadelphia? 

CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  Yes.  Well, those things happen and I feel I play a really good match.  I was disappointed that I couldn't give everything I have inside, so, but there's more chances. 


Q.  Why do you have problems with her? What does she do that gives you difficulty? 

CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  Well, I mean she's a good player, she takes the ball really all and she doesn't really let you do much and, I don't know, I guess I had have to play differently in this court.  For me it's difficult because she takes the ball very early and make a lot of pressure to you. 


Q.  Because of your back problem, could you consider shortening the points by trying to come to the net sooner?  I mean, you stayed back, both of you stayed back. 

CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  I'm not going to go to the net when I normally, only go a few times, that will be, you know, also I can serve really good and I have a lot of problem with the forehand, maybe because I was scared to rotate it.  I mean, I have problems there and I was really stiff. 


Q.  Do you ever think that you will not be the complete tennis player until you learn how to volley properly? 

CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  Well, that's one thing that I have to learn, of course, you know.  I have to work on it and I think with-- sometimes I can do it and with a little more of confidence, how I learn it for sure.  I mean, I have the strength from the baseline and sometimes I can go from there and finish the point early, but a little bit more confidence maybe, in practice. 


Q.  Was that your last tournament for this year? 

CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  Yes, no more. 


Q.  So did you say good-bye to your old rackets? 

CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  Yes, I think I have to say good-bye to my old rackets.  They are pretty old and I have to change racket.  And I mean, yeah, I'm going to rest a little bit and get ready for next year. 


Q.  How disappointing is it that you've never gotten past the second round here? 

CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  Well, you know, it's disappointing in a way.  I mean, I don't know, we-- I mean, for me I'm really tired at the end of the year, you just-- you know it's difficult to play really really good.  You know, and this year I finished the year good and maybe she was tough, I mean, what can you do, when you lose you cannot say much.  I mean, last year I was-- because I have a chance, I was three sets this year. 


Q.  Your serve, what was the difficulty there?  I mean, obviously there were a lot of breaks.  Was it strictly the back that was the problem? 

CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  Yes, I was stiff.  I couldn't do the normal movements not only with the serve and the forehand, you know, without he forehand it's much difficult to play.  That's my best stroke. 


Q.  Thank you.     

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT