VIRGINIA SLIMS CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 17, 1993
Conchita Martinez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Conchita, how high is your confidence level now in light of your victory on Sunday? 
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  Well, that victory gave me alot of confidence in my play because it is not-- well, now that I beat the number one player in the world and because I felt good so the whole year was really good for me it's a lot of good results.  
 

Q.  What have you done in the last year to, you know, to take off to number four in the world? 
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  Well, I've been playing well the whole year, I've been playing good tennis, good results and I've been working on my physical and my tennis pretty consistent and, you know, good.  
 

Q.  Like what are you doing physically? 
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  Just a little bit normally if I practice like one hour, I was practicing two, three hours a day of physical, and so I feel much better on the court, I feel much quicker and I feel stronger, too, to hit the ball early.  
 

Q.  Is it-- do you do you sprints, do you run eight, ten miles? 
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  Everything-- no, I really didn't run long distance, I made more things to-- to be able to move faster, I mean I did weights, everything but in different times.  
 

Q.  Why was the second set so much faster, what was different? 
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  I think in the first set I really start nervous and my arm wasn't going like it normally does, you know, and she was serving pretty hard and it was hard for me to break her serve and that's why I was lucky that I could get going with my serve also and after that, I be breaking more serves and I've been playing more consistent.  Not so many mistakes like in the beginning.  
 

Q.  Why were you nervous? 
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  I mean, it's the first match in the Madison Square Garden, it's always difficult, the people is moving, the people is speaking loud, so you really have to concentrate.  And also, it's, you know, I feel a little bit strange on the court, I don't know, I mean, you know, but, it's probably because it's the Madison and, you know, I was a little nervous.  
 

Q.  Up until now you've been able to sort of go through and I know you've talked a lot about being number two in your own country and that people don't know you, but with a victory over Steffi and a number four ranking, that's got to change, do you -- 
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  I hope so--  
 

Q.  Do you relish that?  Sometimes players don't want to be well known because it puts so much pressure on? 
 
CONCHITA MARTINEZ:  No, I don't think it is a lot of pressure.  I mean, I don't love to, you know, go down the street and everybody knows me, but you know a little bit more positive because it is not easy to be number four and not be recognized for your work.  I've been working really hard to be there and I think I deserve a little bit more.  
 

Q.  Thank you.  

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT