TELECOM ITALIA MASTERS
May 12, 2003
Conchita Martinez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Does it seem 10 years since you won the title here for the first time? 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Well, I guess it's been a long time, yeah. I mean, time flies. I'm happy to be here again and playing some great tennis. That makes me happy. But, yeah, it's always nice to be in Rome, you know, where I had so much success here.  
 
Q. What did surprise you most today: The way you played or the way she played or whatever? 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Well, the way I played and the way I could keep up with her physically, mentally. To tell you the truth, I wasn't practicing so well for the last couple weeks. I had a shoulder injury, and coming back was tough and so my confidence wasn't the best. But, you know, I just went out there and I guess played some of my good tennis.  
 
Q. Which goal and which dream do you still have at this stage of your career? 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Well, my dream could be winning the French Open. That's a good dream. And goal, you know, I want to work hard. I mean, I'll just try and get to the Top 10 this year. I know it's gonna be very hard, but I'm gonna work hard for that.  
 
Q. When you see the way so many of the girls do play these days, they hit the ball so hard, you're sort of a very different player totally to them. Do you actually enjoy it more now, testing your own game against very strong hitters? 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: No. Actually, no, I don't enjoy it (smiling), because I have to run a lot because they hit side to side, and very hard from both sides, they play flat. Everybody wants tto hit really hard these days. So, no, what I'm concentrating is to do my game the best that I can. I know, you know, these days there is not much variety in the game. But they all are very good players and they all are very fit these days, so it's hard to be motivated every day, you know, to play.  
 
Q. What was your reaction when Aranxta Sanchez decided to quit tennis? Were you somehow sorry? Did you think you had more attention from the Spanish papers? Did you change anything at all? 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: No, I totally, you know, respect her decision. Everybody makes their own decisions and she decided to quit and she had her own, you know - how you say - reasons. So I respect that. No, I don't get more attention or whatever. I just concentrate on playing.  
 
Q. You never thought to do the same? 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: No, I'm not ready yet, and I cannot tell you when I will be. Just I guess there is a day that comes and you say, "Okay, this is it. I can't do it anymore," so... But we'll see. I'm still, you know... And matches like this, beating Dokic today, gives me the strength to go on.  
 
Q. You played Serena, Kim and Jennifer this year. Is there much to choose between them? 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: What do you mean "much to choose"?  
 
Q. Is one more powerful than the other? 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: From the three?  
 
Q. Of the three. 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Well, I think -- I don't know. Serena, you know, obviously everybody knows her strengths. I mean, she's got a much better serve than the other I think. Well, I wouldn't say she moves better, because the three of them move really well. So I don't know, maybe a little -- I mean, the ranking says it, no? Maybe a little bit more Serena, and then I think Clijsters is in a very good moment right now. I played the three of them and, you know, was very tough against the three of them. But they're hot right now.  
 
Q. Over the years did you change anything in your way of practicing, of preparing yourself? 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: You know, tennis right now forces you to be better prepared physically, so I'm traveling with a physical trainer and trying to keep myself in shape and better. So, you know, probably I'm more consistent on that and consistent on my diet, too, trying to have good choices and eat good things so I have good energy out there. And practicing, you know. I don't know, there's not much you can do at this stage, just try to do what you know to do to do the best you can.  
 
Q. If you would meet a Spanish kid and you would have to tell him your story, your career, where would you start from? Would you start saying, "I won Wimbledon, I won four times Rome"? 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: No, no. I would start from the beginning. I think it's very important that you talk to a kid from your experience at the beginning of your life, no? Basically, I mean, I would tell him I started when I was nine and how many times I play against the wall by myself and, you know, how hard it is to practice and all that and, you know, go on. I think my story is very long. I mean, we could go on and on and on. But I would start by where I was living, in this small town, and how I started.  
 
Q. And the best moments of your career? 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Well, definitely winning Wimbledon, of course - Grand Slam, you can't beat that. That was an amazing win. After that, I was pretty hot for two, three more years where I won I think six tournaments each year and I was No. 2. So that was some happy times.  
 
Q. Did you watch the men's final? 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Yeah, I did.  
 
Q. What did you think? 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Look, I got goose bumps right now. It was amazing. I'm very happy for Felix. I think it was great tennis, as much as I could see from the TV, you know. It always changes. But I think, you know, he was very strong and fighting and he deserved.  
 
Q. There is a reason why the Spanish men are more successful than Spanish women, except you and Sanchez, of course? 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: No, I couldn't tell you the reason. I mean, there is a very good system in Spain to, you know, to practice.  
 
Q. Just for men? 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: No, for men and women. I mean, the Federation, they have men and women. I don't know, I couldn't tell you. You know, I guess it goes through its stages, and I hope it changes - or no it changes, it changes for the women, of course - that we get some more women out there, motivated and, you know, some good players. I mean, we have good players, I mean, but we need a little bit more.  
 
Q. What do you expect from this tournament, now that you beat Dokic? 
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: I go round by round. Every tournament I play, I always concentrate and focus in the next match. I couldn't tell you who I had to play yet, because I don't know. So I just focus on the next round.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT