TMS - MADRID
October 15, 2002
Agustin Calleri
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Is that one of the best matches you played? 

AGUSTIN CALLERI:  Well, yeah, one of the best.  But at the beginning of the year, I played Guga in Buenos Aires, and I won also against Hrbaty in Roland Garros. 

Q.  What made the difference today? 

AGUSTIN CALLERI:  I really wanted to win.  I was fighting really to win the match, hungry for the match. 

Q.  Safin was saying that the match was defined by two points, one ace and one volley. 

AGUSTIN CALLERI:  I don't think they were lucky shots.  It was a very close, very hard-fought match.  Most points were really short.  There were very few long rallies.  The point with the volley, I went to the net, he hit it at my body, I could just hit it back. 

Q.  Having won in the qualifications, do you think that helped you?

AGUSTIN CALLERI:  Oh, definitely.  I've adapted myself to the height of the bounce, the surface.  On the other hand, I'm a bit more tired because I've played a few matches. 

Q.  It helps with the rhythm?

AGUSTIN CALLERI:  It's also tiring, since Saturday I played four matches.  That's tiring.  Coming back from Vienna, there wasn't so much height on the ball, and here there is.  My goal was to win the first set and try to play how I had discussed with my coach. 

Q.  What was the strategy for the match?

AGUSTIN CALLERI:  It was to move him around all the time.  I couldn't let him stop.  Tomorrow I'm going to watch Norman's match.  Norman was No. 2 in the world.  I feel good now, but who knows how I'll feel tomorrow, how I will be the next day. 

Q.  If you think about Cordoba, what do you think of the tournament?

AGUSTIN CALLERI:  I don't want to think of the past; I want to think of the present.

Q.  Do you think when he was complaining, was that to disturb you or because he was annoyed?

AGUSTIN CALLERI:  A little bit of both. 

Q.  Did he tell you after the match that you had some disagreements?

AGUSTIN CALLERI:  No, he didn't tell me.  I was very confident during the match.  He didn't serve well during the whole match. 

Q.  Safin said that you were lucky, but at the same time he said you deserved this luck because luck helps the brave.  He said it was surprising you hit those volleys, that you were not really a volleyer. 

AGUSTIN CALLERI:  Well, actually at the moment I feel very confident with my volleys. 

Q.  He mentioned also your match in Kitzbuhel. 

AGUSTIN CALLERI:  Yeah, I don't know.  I think to make a long story short, I was very confident.  His serve wasn't so good.  He returned well at some points. 

Q.  After a match like this one, do you think you can win the tournament?

AGUSTIN CALLERI:  I prefer not to have so many expectations.  I want to think of the present.  Tomorrow morning I'm going to see the match Norman-Johansson.  I'm going to go step by step.  I will think about my strategy just before the match.  Step by step.  I never look on how the other players are doing in the tournament.  I just think of myself, my way to go forward in the tournament. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT