PILOT PEN TENNIS
August 25, 2006
Agustin Calleri
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 Q.  What do you think bothered Malisse more, his elbow or the music in the background? 
 AGUSTIN CALLERI:  (Through translation.)  The music bothered me a little bit.  When Xavier had the problem with his arm, he just tried to focus on his game. 
 I tried to focus on myself, just play my tennis. 

 Q.  Have you ever played in an atmosphere like that in the past?  It was pretty loud.  Have you ever experienced that kind of thing before in a tournament, a semifinals especially? 
 AGUSTIN CALLERI:  (Through translation.)  That was the first time it happened to me. 

 Q.  Good preparation for the Open, too, all the noise? 
 AGUSTIN CALLERI:  (Through translation.)  No, it's different because today was a fashion show.  When you're at the US Open, the noise comes from the spectators and the fans. 

 Q.  Is it something that would bother you to the point where you would have to bring it up for discussion with organizers, why did that happen, how did that happen? 
 AGUSTIN CALLERI:  (Through translation.)  No, I don't think I'm requesting to talk to the tournament or to the ATP.  I think it's just something that happens that they had it scheduled today.  Unfortunately, it happened. 

 Q.  Even before the music started, you were in control of the match.  Can you just talk briefly about how you did play.  You seemed to play very well. 
 AGUSTIN CALLERI:  (Through translation.)  I started my match confident.  I know that I'm playing very well.  The music bothered me a little bit at the beginning, but then I tried to focus again on myself.  The fact that Xavier was having pain in his arm, again, I just tried to focus on my game and that's it. 

 Q.  In terms of the final, do you care who you play?  Talk about the match-ups that you might face with each player in the final. 
 AGUSTIN CALLERI:  (Through translation.)  Yeah, I think both players play very well on hard court.  Whoever I'm playing tomorrow in the final, either Soderling or Davydenko is not going to make a difference.  They're both very good hard court players. 

 Q.  What did you do to kill time while you were waiting for your match to start? 
 AGUSTIN CALLERI:  (Through translation.)  I watched a movie, I played a little bit of cards.  The movie wasn't too great.  Just I drank a little bit of coffee.  That's it. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT