PILOT PEN TENNIS
August 24, 2006
Agustin Calleri
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 Q.  Could you talk about the match today, getting through to the semifinals, how does that feel? 
 AGUSTIN CALLERI:  (Through translation.)  It was a very tough match.  I played a very tough match.  I know very well Massu.  We played a lot of matches against each other.  But I'm playing very well.  I'm very confident right now. 
 Looking forward to do well in this tournament. 

 Q.  How have you fared against Massu in the past? 
 AGUSTIN CALLERI:  (Through translation.)  When I play Nicolas, it was hard.  First time I played against him was during the ATP tournament in Buenos Aires in the final.  He beat me in the final.  Also I played a lot of junior tournaments with him.  I've known him since a long time, since obviously juniors.  It's hard to play sometimes with somebody you know very well. 

 Q.  Any difference in the third set?  After losing the second set, what allowed you to carry the third set? 
 AGUSTIN CALLERI:  (Through translation.)  Yeah, the second set I didn't play very well.  In the third set I took the lead 4-1.  It doesn't really matter because against Nicolas Massu, he's always very competitive and fights until the end.  I just had to pay attention and at the end everything went well. 

 Q.  Crowd between points was very loud and boisterous, almost as if it was a James Blake match.  How did that affect you during the match?  Did that get you pumped up at all? 
 AGUSTIN CALLERI:  (Through translation.)  No, it didn't really bother me.  The only thing was maybe a photographer that was very close to the court.  When he was taking pictures, you could hear the noise of the machine. 

 Q.  The South Americans are known as great clay court players.  How difficult is it to adjust to hard courts?  How do you make that adjustment? 
 AGUSTIN CALLERI:  (Through translation.)  Well, definitely we grow up on clay, but all Argentinians are quality players and we don't have problems to make the transition from clay to hard courts or carpet, indoor, just because of the quality of all the Argentinian players. 

 Q.  Your relationship with Massu, you came up together in the junior circuit.  Were you ever close friends?  You said it's hard to play somebody you know.  Go into that a little more, I guess. 
 AGUSTIN CALLERI:  (Through translation.)  Well, obviously, tennis is a very individualistic sport, but it's also the beauty of the sport.  Even if I'm playing my friend today, it doesn't really matter, I still want to beat him.  Even if I beat him, outside the court he'll still be my friend.  That's just the beauty of tennis, that's how it works. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT