TMS - MADRID
October 18, 2002
Agustin Calleri
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Can you explain your play?
 
AGUSTIN CALLERI:  I was a bit indecisive in the first set.  I didn't serve well.  He's a player in great shape and has a great technique.  I didn't start the match well.  But I'm still happy with my week.  I don't want to be satisfied with this result. 
 
Q.  After the tiebreak, your impression?
 
AGUSTIN CALLERI:  He played a deep shot.  I played two backhands, one of them in the net.  Then he served, and he was very good.  Those points he played well.  It's not that there was something unfair for anybody.  He really won those points. He returns so well.  
 
Q.  Today you didn't put as much pressure on your opponent as the other days. 
 
AGUSTIN CALLERI:  Well, in the first set I made mistakes.  
 
Q.  The fact that you've been playing since Saturday, did that play a role?
 
AGUSTIN CALLERI:  No, my physical condition was good.  I was quite eager to win.  I think I was more eager than when I played with Safin because it's the quarterfinals.  For me, it's very important.  In practice before we started, I was a bit nervous.  After, I relaxed a bit more. 
 
Q.  At the end of the season, how do you assess it?
 
AGUSTIN CALLERI:  I changed my coach in the middle of the year.  I started very well during the finals in Buenos Aires.  Then I had two injuries that jeopardized my game.  Then I played Roland Garros.  But it was positive for me.  I wanted to finish a bit farther.  Well, I still have two tournaments to go.  I wanted to make it to the Top 30.  But then I had a slight injury.  
 
Q.  What is Mariano's secret?  He's made a lot of achievements with many players.  With you, after a month and a half, you've done a lot. 
 
AGUSTIN CALLERI:  He gives you a lot of confidence.  That's very positive.  He knows all the players.  He gives you tips about all the players.  He's a hard worker.  Even if we have to get up at 5 in the morning, he will do that.  
 
Q.  Your mind was in another state because it was a round that you hadn't reached before?
 
AGUSTIN CALLERI:  No, not different.  But I was certainly more eager to win this time.  My thoughts, I was very determined to win.  I tried to play my game.  Well, one day you play well, and then the next not so well. 
 
Q.  What was your strategy against Grosjean?
 
AGUSTIN CALLERI:  Well, I tried to return well.  He always plays cross-court shots.  But this time I missed some easy points.  
 
Q.  This is the first time you've made it to the quarters in a Masters.  Will you remember it as a very important week?
 
AGUSTIN CALLERI:  Yes, of course.  I beat some Grand Slam champions.  My level has been great.  It gives me the proof that I can compete in any tournament.  I hope from now on I can gain direct entry into more tournaments.  
 
Q.  What are you more pleased with from your season?
 
AGUSTIN CALLERI:  Well, not only the physical aspects, but the psychological aspects, mental.  The greatest change has been in the mind, in my confidence.  It's good to be in good shape.  
 
Q.  What are your plans for next year?
 
AGUSTIN CALLERI:  I don't have any set goals.  I'll try to maintain my level.  After that, results will come by themselves. 
 
Q.  Why don't you like to make goals? 
 
AGUSTIN CALLERI:  Well, if you start thinking, "If I win this match, then I lose that one, I'll get those points," it's too much.  You lose your focus.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT