WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC POOL TWO: MIAMI
March 18, 2009
Mark DeRosa
Davey Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. For Davey, how much does this matter in terms of the seeding, and how do you kind of approach that?
 DAVEY JOHNSON: Well, it doesn't matter that much. I think our hitters can always use some at-bats, but our pitchers are still behind. Some of our pitchers are a little bit behind. That's my main concern right now. 

 Q. Does Adam Dunn's performance sort of underscore what you were talking about earlier with moving guys around and trying to deal with injuries on the fly without the usual resources to deal with them?
 DAVEY JOHNSON: You know, that's one of the problems. We really don't have a first baseman to go to, and that creates a problem. I've got to play some guys out of positions that they're not used to playing, and that is an issue, a concern. 
 I don't know what we'd do without this guy (DeRosa). He's played three positions and played very well. 

 Q. Do you have any further insight as to where things stand with first base or any other roster moves than when we talked to you before the game?
 DAVEY JOHNSON: I really don't. We've had discussions about it, but there are not really any good options. There's a lot of people on that other list that are capable of playing first. Derrek Lee is on that list, but he's hurt.

 Q. He's not available?
 DAVEY JOHNSON: The conversation we had, he wasn't available. 

 Q. Mark, just kind of your feelings, obviously you would have liked to walk away with a different result, but what's kind of the mood of the team? 
 MARK DeROSA: We're fine. After last night, I mean, anything was going to be a letdown. That was one of the great moments in a lot of guys' careers in there, and it was a special moment rushing out on the field with all your teammates and advancing. You know, same thing happened to us up in Toronto. We were able to get into the so-called championship game, and it didn't work out. But at the same time, last night was the most important. 
 I know for seeding purposes it plays a big part, but guys ultimately played hard tonight, got their work in, and we go there ready to roll. 

 Q. The conditions, how were they? 
 MARK DeROSA: Yeah, the conditions weren't that good, to be honest with you. I don't know. You know, you sit there and wonder had the game been started, if it was a regular season game. But it was fine, and I don't think it played any part. There was no guys slipping. Grounds crew did a great job of coming in and making sure the pitchers' footing was fine. So I don't think anybody had a problem with it.  
 Q. David Wright took that foul ball off the foot early. How is he?
 DAVEY JOHNSON: Well, under normal circumstances I'd have taken him out. I asked him how is he doing -- I asked him. We're not going to play somebody out of position. He basically tore off the toenail on his left foot, so he's not a happy camper right now. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT