NL DIVISION SERIES: CUBS v BRAVES
October 1, 2003
Mark DeRosa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  The big thing was two-out hits, and obviously you had a very big one tonight.  Would you talk about that?

MARK DEROSA:  Yeah, I struck out with the bases loaded and two outs against Farnsworth.  When you're hitting against Gary Sheriff and Chipper Jones you've got to come through.  I'm proud of myself and trying to put the ball in place.  I knew he didn't want to walk me.  I was thankful I was able to contribute and help the team.

Q.  Did you know coming into the park today that you probably were going to start, or was it still up in the air?

MARK DEROSA:  After spending some time with Giles after he got injured, I kind of figured I would be playing.  I prepared myself mentally to be in there.  He's been the sparkplug of this team the whole year.  I went up to him before the game and said, if you feel fine, you know, tell the Skip, you know, it's your job.  I just prepare myself every day to come in the park and be prepared to play. 

Q.  Your emotions, was that characteristic of you or as a result of the situation?

MARK DEROSA:  It was definitely a result of the situation.  I hope the Cubs don't take offense by it.  I meant nothing by it.  I've got the football mentality still.  We needed this game going do Chicago.  With Prior on the mound, a hostile environment, it is  going to be pretty tough. 


Q.  Could you go through the bat with Veres.

MARK DEROSA:  His big pitch was a split finger.  He likes to get ahead with that.  He likes to draw a two-seam fast ball on the outside corner to get ahead.  I was able to foul it off.  I was hoping to get a split finger up in the zone.  I knew they wanted to come after me.  Dusty intentionally walked Raffy to get to me.  I don't think his idea was to put me on and have to face Sheffield.  I was looking for a split finger and was able to put some good wood on it.  Moises happened to be playing a little bit shallow, and like Bobby said, the wind was really holding the ball in the ballpark.  When it went up, I was wondering if Moises might get to that.  Thankfully he didn't. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT