WNBA FINALS: DREAM v LYNX
October 7, 2011
Lindsey Harding
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 THE MODERATOR: We have Lindsey Harding here. 

 Q. Lindsey, talk about when you were still within reach, down by 5 and made that rally to come back. 
 LINDSEY HARDING: In Game 2 at the end we kinda did the same thing a little bit, we pressured and pressed and saw that it affected them a little bit, and that's what our plan was to create chaos and make 'em throw the ball away and get steals and that's what we did and got easy baskets and layups. 

 Q. Can you talk about what adjustments you think the team needs to make in order to -- now you got to the Finals two years in a row. What is it going to take to bring it home and bring in the championship? 
 LINDSEY HARDING: Wow, big question so soon. You know, when it comes to this point of the season, it's about who can make the best plays, the biggest plays, who can make the most plays offensively and defensively and Minnesota did it. 
 I don't know if it's necessarily bringing one person in or getting another person, I mean, I'm sure that our coaches and staff are going to be looking at trying to make this team even stronger for next season, but it's just making plays, you know? It was close, they just made more plays. 

 Q. Lindsey, you were acquired by Atlanta in the draft day trade. Did you think back then that you would end up here tonight and being so close? 
 LINDSEY HARDING: The plan was to come and play for a championship. When Atlanta was talking to me at the time before I was traded here, it was, you know, we want to get to the Finals again and compete for a championship. It was their mind-set, it wasn't oh we want a good season and play in the playoffs, no, we wanted to get to this point.
 I knew it was hard, playing in D.C. was the first time I had gone to the playoffs, period. It's good to be here and when you think about how we started from 3-9 to come to where we are now, we weren't supposed to be here and we fought through it. 
 THE MODERATOR: Lindsey, thank you very much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT