NCAA MEN'S 1ST AND 2ND ROUNDS: DES MOINES
March 17, 2016
Dave Loos
John Murry
Josh Robinson
Chris Horton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Kansas - 105, Austin Peay - 79
THE MODERATOR: We will have an opening statement from head Coach, Dave Loos.  Coach?
DAVE LOOS: Okay, well, I think it's pretty clear Kansas is obviously a really talented basketball team, great size, athletic ability.  I think, you know, we took a bunch of jump shots early in the game, unfortunately didn't make many of those, and we got buried inside.  I think they're just so big and strong, they got numbers in there.  This was an issue for us, as was second chance points.  In the first half I think they had 10 offensive rebounds.
THE MODERATOR: Questions for our student-athletes?
Q. Chris, I'm sure you're the focal point of a lot of defenses but you got after to a slow start.  What was Kansas doing against you?
CHRIS HORTON: It was just really -- it just didn't flow like that, how we really wanted it to.  They pushed us out a little bit.  They pushed me out, and I didn't get as deep as I wanted to to catch the ball.  So that was really just on me not getting the right position.
Q. What's the most impressive thing about playing a team like Kansas?  What's the toughest thing about playing a team as good as that?
JOSH ROBINSON: I think just their size.  I think that's what really beat us is their size.  We had a tough time just guarding them.  I think we scored enough points.  We scored 80 points, but we didn't guard any and they scored 100 points.
Q. What are your guys' thoughts on having your improbable run end in the way that it did?
CHRIS HORTON: It really didn't end how we wanted it to, we could have definitely defended better.  I feel like we did score enough points on offense.  The second half was good for us offensively and we had some good defensive spurts in the second half.  But just the run we had going through the conference tournament it was a great run, you know.  We enjoyed everything we did and we're going to remember it forever.  Regards to today, we just wish we could have did better defensively.  But overall we're happy with what we've done.
JOSH ROBINSON: I'm proud of the run we had, and I'm proud of how we kept fighting today when we got down.  I'm just looking forward to next year, playing with these guys again.
JOHN MURRY: I'm really just proud of how we turned it on in conference.  I'm pretty sure nobody expected us to be here and the fact that we got four back-to-back wins and we got here and we just -- if we would have guarded just a little more and got a few extra stops we probably could be moving on.  But I feel like we gave our all and we just came up short.  But I'm still proud in the end.
Q. Josh, knowing that you just played a top-seeded team and you were the leading scorer for both teams, how does that make you feel?
JOSH ROBINSON: I don't know.  It makes me feel good.  This is the type of player I am.  I have confidence.  I feel like I can score on anybody.  It doesn't matter who I'm playing.  I'm not scared to play anybody.  It's just how I am as a person, as a player, when I'm on the court I feel like I'm the best player on the court.
Q. Chris, this is your last college basketball game.  I know before you've been able to -- it's been emotional for you every time, it's been one of those chances for you.  What are your thoughts going through your head?
CHRIS HORTON: That's it, the last thing I ever did, I made it here!  I did everything I said I wanted to do, I wanted to make a NCAA Tournament, I wanted to win a conference tournament, I wanted to beat Murray, did that.  I did everything I wanted to do while I was here, so I'm really happy with everything I've done here, and I have a good feeling about what I've left at Austin Peay.
THE MODERATOR: Anything else for our student-athletes?  Thanks, guys.
Questions for Coach?
Q. You mentioned Kansas' strength inside.  Do you feel like they wanted to take away Chris and make you a jump-shooting team in this game?
DAVE LOOS: I think what you said is true, but if I can back up to your question a while ago, about Chris' slow start or someone asked that question, I think the problem was we kind of fell in love with the jump shot and we weren't getting it in there.
I thought we needed to get it in there more, earlier in the game and at least try to get to the free throw line.  We dug ourselves a big hole by not doing that.  But they are big and strong, athletic.  We're quite honestly not equipped to handle a team like that inside with their numbers and size.
Q. Coach, what was kinda the game plan on Mykhailiuk?  He came off the bench and had a pretty good game.
DAVE LOOS: We went to a zone when he was already in the game so we had to pay more attention to where he was.  What actually happened on a couple plays is we got screened in and they got the ball to him and he made a couple of threes.  He's a good basketball player and coming into this game, I really thought he might just jump shoot.  But he can do more than just jump shoot.  He's a good basketball player and he was definitely a factor in the game.
Q. You are only going to be missing two of your players next year, seems it should body well with the efforts that Josh Robinson is putting forth is it giving you any indication of what to expect for the Governors?
DAVE LOOS: I think there are some good, young players in this program for sure.  There is a piece or two that has to be filled and replaced, but I think one of the real encouraging things besides run is during the conference tournament there were times when we were playing with three freshmen and a sophomore, so I think that there is good, young players in this program.  But some recruiting needs, for sure.
Q. Hate to ask you this, but you're contract is going to be up this year.  Have you given any thoughts on what's next for you?
DAVE LOOS: I've said earlier that I told my wife on one occasion, didn't want to talk about it.  We're going to focus on the Conference Tournament.  Came up again and I said we're going to focus on the NCAA Tournament.  Rhyan and I agreed several weeks ago that we were going to talk about this after the season was over, so that's what I'm sure will happen.
THE MODERATOR: Coach, thank you very much for a great season.
DAVE LOOS: Thank you.  Appreciate it.  I want to thank all of you for what you've done as it relates to Rhyan and for getting the word out the way that you have.  Thank you very much.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT