THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 13, 2016
Colt Knost
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 10-under through 17 holes.  Not many people can get into that zone.  What was working so well for you, and what were you thinking during that time?
COLT KNOST: Yeah, you know, I told my caddie, it seems like a lot this year I've been 3- or 4-under at the turn and kind of let off a little bit, and just tried to get it to the house, and I told him just to keep me aggressive all day.  I was swinging at it great.  We had no wind.  This golf course is perfect for me.  You have to hit fairways, you have to hit greens, and I hit so many good iron shots today.  Made so many -- I made a lot of 10-footers.  Really didn't make any long ones, but I hit 18 greens today, so I had 18 looks at birdie, which you do that around here, you're going to shoot a good number because the greens are so small, you're not going to have very long putts.  Like I said, I obviously let a few get away out there, but it was a great day.
Q. I'm guessing you were aware of the course record that you had your hands around.  Walk us through 18.  How much was that rattling in your brain?
COLT KNOST: Yeah, you know, I was fine.  I was nervous on the tee shot because I hit it in the water there yesterday and made double.  Pretty much the only shot I've really missed in two days.  And for the circumstances I hit a pretty good one off 18 and tried to step on a 7-iron a little bit and just pulled it a little bit.  But I was honestly fine over the first putt, thought I hit a pretty good one, and it just was a lot slower than I thought.  I was nervous on the four or five-footer, however far it was.  But honestly I hit a good putt.  I hit it on the left edge and it just stayed there and lipped out.
Q. Are you walking out of here after shooting a 63 and tying the course record disappointed it's not 62?
COLT KNOST: Of course, yeah.  I'd have putted 61 on 18 and walked away with 63.  If I'm 4-under on the day and I have that four-footer, I'd just knock it right in the back, no issue.  But no, there was a little thought in my head that I could do something nobody has ever done around here.  I've got two more days to do that.
Q. You tie your career round on the PGA TOUR, both coming at the CareerBuilder Challenge.  Does this golf course feel a little bit or is it playing a little bit like Palm Springs?
COLT KNOST: No, not at all.  This golf course is much more difficult.  We just had very, very nice conditions this morning, just like I had yesterday morning.  When the wind lies down around here, the course is playing so fast, you get a lot of short irons in your hands.  As long as you land it in the fairway, you can be aggressive.  The greens are still holding, which is kind of surprising to be honest.  I knew I had to go out and be aggressive this morning to get somewhat back in it.  I almost didn't make the cut.  I figured I'd shoot at least 3-under today and I just went out and tried to attack everything I could.
Q. You've got to be really pleased with your round.
COLT KNOST: Yeah, it was a great day.  Honestly, both days I've hit it really well.  Yesterday I just didn't make any putts.  Honestly in two days I feel like I've made one bad swing, and that's when I hit it in the water on 18 yesterday.  Yeah, I mean, the key to this place is precision, and I mean, I hit a lot of fairways today and I hit 18 greens.  Like I said, if you hit 18 greens around here, the greens are so small, you're going to have a lot of good looks.  I missed three putts inside of 10 feet today, or it could have been one of those real special ones.  I mean, it was a great day of ball-striking.
Q. Let's talk about 18.  You'll be asked about it a lot.  Were you aware on the tee that you were 10-under and you had the course record if you just parred the hole?
COLT KNOST: Oh, yeah, for sure.  We all know 9-under around here, it's been shot a few times.  Yeah, I was nervous on the tee a little bit, but I stepped up, and I said for the circumstances I hit a pretty good one, just hit it down there in the first cut and tried to step on a 7-iron a little bit from 179, and I just pulled it a little bit.  I was fine over the first putt, just trying to get it up there probably close instead of trying to make it, and then the second one I was a little nervous.  I actually felt like I hit a pretty good putt, it just stayed on the left edge, and it just kind of hung there.
Q. Well, it's just one of those things, you can't take anything away.  You hit all those greens, and you struck it so pure today.
COLT KNOST: Yeah, it was great.  I mean, like I said, I've always told myself I should have a chance to win this golf tournament.  This golf course is great for me.  It reminds me a lot of Hilton Head, places where you can't overpower this place.  You've got to be patient.  You've got to hit fairways.  You've got to hit greens, and I mean, that's what I do.  And if I just can be patient and let it come and let the putter heat up, I mean, I should be right in the mix here quite often.
Q. Talk about the weekend; how excited are you about the way you're playing?  You have a chance to win this thing.
COLT KNOST: Oh, I know I do.  I knew coming in this week I had a chance to win this thing.  Yesterday was disappointing just getting off to a slow start, but like I said, I played well yesterday in the tougher conditions.  I just made zero putts, and if I make a few putts and shoot 3-under it's a totally different story.  But you know, coming off -- I birdied the last two last night, and then coming in this morning and getting 10-under through 17, it was great.  I mean, that's just -- you've got to keep the pedal down out here.  This place is going to get firm, though.  It's going to get tough this weekend.  We know that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT