THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 13, 2016
Colt Knost
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Any highlights today?  
COLT KNOST: A couple.  No.  Just a great day.  Came out and got off to kind of a little slow start, honestly.  Parred the first two, but then finally made a putt on 3, which was the first putt in two days, and kind of just got it going from there.  My deal was to stay aggressive all day and try and get back in the mix and, honestly, just make the cut, because of where I put myself yesterday.   
And with the start I got off to, it was kind of a dream start around here, shoot 5-under on the front.  And left a couple out on the front, but then just told my caddie to keep me aggressive on the back and just kept firing.  Hit -- just really didn't miss a shot all day.  Just kind of unfortunate to end the way it did, but that happens.   
 Q.  What are you bummed about on a bogey at the last?  Just because you had a shot at 62?  
COLT KNOST: Yeah, honestly, I hit a pretty great drive for the circumstance, I thought and then was kind of stuck between 6- and 7-iron and tried to hammer a 7-iron and I missed it where you're supposed to.  I was fine over the first putt.  I was trying to 2-putt it, which is probably the problem instead of trying to make it.   
And I was a little nervous over the second one.  I knew what it was for.  But I didn't hit a bad putt, I hit it on the left lip and it just stayed there and lipped out.  So a little disappointing, but still I would have taken 9-under before I started today.   
 Q.  You mentioned that, I think back to your interview, you are not upset about shooting 63, because you felt like you could have shot 61.  
COLT KNOST: Yeah, if you look back at it, I think I missed a 5-footer on 4.   
I had it probably 12 feet on 9.   
Eight feet on 10.   
And then the 4-footer right there.   
And I made putt par on 16 with 5-wood in where I thought I hit a great 5-wood right in the middle of the green and it trickled through the back there.  And I tried to putt it through the swale and 3-putted.   
But you hit 18 greens out here, you're going to shoot something low.  The greens are so small that you're going to have a lot of 15-footers.   
But, yeah, I mean, I made the longest putt I made all day was 14, that was probably 22 feet or something like that.  Other than that everything was inside of 15 feet.  I just struck it great all day.   
 Q.  You made every cut but one this season.  How would you describe your season up until this week?  
COLT KNOST: It's been a great season.  As far as that goes.  My whole goal coming into this year was to become more consistent and I have.  I've put myself in the mix a lot, it's just I have one bad round a week, it seems like, or one round where I lose pace a little bit.   
And that's just kind of how it's been.  That's why I haven't finished better than 14th.   
But I finish around 25th a lot, which is great for FedExCup and stuff like that, but it's not what I want to do.  Hopefully, I got my bad round out of the way yesterday.  But, yeah, it's solid.  I've been playing really well.  Just really been I feel like my game's gotten a lot better in the last year.   
 Q.  What's the difference at this place?  Your last couple years you haven't played too well.  
COLT KNOST: This place is tough.  I think you have to play it a few times and get to know it a little bit.  I had to realize that this is a perfect golf course for me.  It's a lot like Hilton Head.  You have to hit fairways, you have to hit greens and you just have to be patient around here.  It's not that long, which is really good for me.  I don't really like the long ones too much.   
 Q.  How do you explain -- there are people who have come in here not necessarily on top form and have really shot good scores these first two days on what you would think is a course that requires you to be firing on all cylinders.  How do you explain that?  
COLT KNOST: Well I just think that -- guys out here are so good it turns so fast.  You look at Jason Gore last week shoots 83, 65.  It's stuff like that.  Guys can come in and have terrible Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and find something Thursday morning on the range and go out and light it up.   
 Q.  So it's literally one shot, one --  
COLT KNOST: It really can be.  I was struggling all day yesterday with my putting and made a nice one on my 17th hole and made another one on my last, and it kind of just carried over into today.   
 Q.  Did you do anything, did someone say, did your caddie say something to you before that putt on 17?  
COLT KNOST: No, I just went in and tried to get a little more aggressive with my putts, because I've been babying them a little bit.  Instead of worrying about the next one, just worry about the one at hand and make it.   
 Q.  You struck the ball great today, people are seeing scores and they're saying, oh, it's too soft, it's too easy.  Which is it?  
COLT KNOST: It is way softer than I thought it would be this morning.  Yesterday afternoon it got pretty firm.  But there's no wind, there was no wind for pretty much 18 holes.  Yesterday the wind blew pretty good in the afternoon.  So, I don't know.  It's definitely softer than we thought it would be for sure.   
 Q.  You guys getting enough credit?  
COLT KNOST: No, we never do.  It's always something.   
 Q.  When did you start to think about a number, a course record or maybe breaking it?  
COLT KNOST: Probably when I made the putt on 14 to get to 8.  I knew I had 16 left and 17's obviously a short iron.   
Then when I birdied 15 to get to 9- I knew I was going to have a pretty good chance at it.  I hit two great shots into 16, just kind of got a little unlucky there.   
But to birdie 17 under the circumstances was pretty cool.   
Disappointing finish, but I can't dwell on that too much.  To hit 18 greens out here is pretty good, whether the wind's blowing or not.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT