THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 13, 2016
Colt Knost
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
ALEX URBAN: We have Colt Knost in the interview room.  You made 10 birdies in your round today.  That's actually the most you've made in any one round on the PGA TOUR, twice before had made nine.  Talk about your play today.   
COLT KNOST: Yeah, I played great.  I took advantage of some great conditions out there.  Second day in a row in the morning there's been no wind.  Greens were a lot softer than I kind of expected them to be, and just struck my irons great.  I mean, I drove it pretty good like I normally do, but just -- like I said, I hit 18 greens today, which was -- I mean, you do that around here, you're going to shoot a good number.   
But it was just a great day.  I mean, had a lot of nice full shots into greens, which is huge for us where I don't have to take anything off or step on anything.  But it was just a fun day.  Our whole group played good, and I think that helps a lot.  I mean, I think Will shot 7 and Bryce shot 4, so I guess we kind of just fed off each other.   
 Q.  Is there anything the rules staff can do to make this course tougher as long as the weather conditions stay the same throughout the week?  
COLT KNOST: Well, I mean, I don't know if I'm right or wrong about this, but they have SubAir, correct?  I don't know if they just haven't turned it on or what, but like I said, it's just way softer than we kind of expected.  The fairways are running, which kind of makes this place challenging, but at the same time it makes it play so short.  I'm having so many wedges into greens, obviously I'm one of the shorter hitters out here, but you give us wedges into these greens, you're going to be able to get aggressive.   
With the little wind and -- I mean, I'm hitting -- I hit a couple 5-irons into greens today that stopped rather quickly, I thought, which is great for scoring, but I mean, I just -- I still feel this golf course is going to change this weekend.   
 Q.  Did you know the course record?  Did you know you had a chance at the course record, and what was going through your mind on that last putt?  
COLT KNOST: Yeah, for sure I knew it.  I watch a lot of golf, to be honest, and I know where -- I know certain things like that, and I knew Jason tied it yesterday and he was talking about the record yesterday.  When I birdied 15 to get to 9, I kind of thought, I'm going to have a really good chance at this thing, especially going into 16, and honestly got pretty unlucky on 16 where my second shot ended up, but hit two great shots on 17, and then I knew where I stood on 18, and I also knew I snap-hooked it in the water there yesterday, so that went through the head.   
But for the circumstances, hit a pretty good tee shot down there in the first cut and just tried to step on a 7-iron a little bit, figured I was jacked up a little bit, and just pulled it a little bit.   
But you know, as we all say, the toughest thing to do is when you try to two-putt, and that's kind of what I was thinking, which I regret that right now.  I wish I would have tried to make -- my caddie told me I hadn't made a long one all day, so I might as well knock this one in.  I wish I would have ran that through my head again.  It seems like every time you try to two-putt, you leave yourself something a little more than you want.  I was nervous over the last putt just because -- you know, so many great players have played this golf course and all that, and to be the first one and only one to shoot 10-under would have been really cool.   
But I hit a pretty good putt, honestly, just kind of misread it a little bit and it hit the left lip.   
 Q.  What was your mindset coming in today?  You know you have to probably get in the red pretty low to even make the cut for crying out loud.  
COLT KNOST: Yeah, and that's exactly what I thought.  I birdied 8 and 9, my 17 and 18th last night, to get back to even, and I honestly played pretty good yesterday.  I gave myself a lot of chances.  I just made zero putts yesterday, and I knew coming into today, I probably had to shoot 3-under just to make the cut.  But I knew with the weather this morning and the way I was hitting it that I knew I could do that for sure.   
But you know, I got going pretty good early and I just made sure I wanted to stay aggressive the rest of the day, because shooting 4-under out here and being in 40th doesn't do much.  I want to get out there and compete.   
 Q.  Is that a different type of pressure, knowing that -- like trying to shoot 67, 66?  Is that a different pressure?  
COLT KNOST: Yeah, it is.  If I was off to a pretty poor start this year and was sitting way down in the FedEx, then I might be pressing a little bit and getting a little nervous about it, but I know I've been playing well most of the year and just lacking that one good round a week.  I'm having one bad round a week it seems like all year, and if I can just not worry about that and go out and be aggressive like I was today, you know, I've got myself right back in the middle of it unless Jason goes out and shoots something crazy again today.   
But either way I did what I had to do today to get back in the middle of this thing.   
 Q.  You have one missed cut this year but no top 10s.  What's been the one thing holding you from jumping in?  
COLT KNOST: Yeah, like I've missed one, but I just seem to finish anywhere from 14th to 35th every week, and it's just that one slow round a week that gets me, just that -- I'm hoping that round was yesterday.  But you know, to win out here and to compete, you have to play four good ones, and it's just something I haven't done yet this year, but it's getting close.  I've got to stay patient with everything.   
ALEX URBAN: Thanks, Colt.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT