DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 4, 2015
Colt Knost
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  4-under par in this opening round at the Deutsche Bank Championship, how would you assess the day for you?  
COLT KNOST: Yeah, I played really well.  It was very tough out there.  The wind was up and it was swirling a lot.  Yeah, I played well.  I didn't feel like I hit it my best, but it never really got me in trouble.  I made some really nice putts coming in.  I played solid.  It was a really tough day.   
 Q.  What is the biggest challenge with this golf course with these conditions?  
COLT KNOST: Well, this wind is different than normal today, out of the north and all the par-5s play into the wind, which makes it tough.  This golf course is long.  The fairways are running out pretty good.  But the wind switches, and you've got to trust it's coming from the direction it says it is, but it's tough.   
 Q.  You came into the week 95th in the FedExCup standings, it's just one round, but how does this round hopefully keep your season going?  
COLT KNOST: Like I said, it's just a start.  But I have nothing to lose this week.  It's either play really good or I have an off-season.  That's the way I'm looking at it right now.  I'm going to go for everything and if I have a great week, great.  If is not, rest up for the next year.   
 Q.  Nice solid round of golf for you.  
COLT KNOST: Yeah, it was very tough conditions out there.  Very, very happy with the start.  I knew it was going to be a tough day coming in, with all the wind switching out of the north and supposed to blow pretty hard today.  And the golf course played much different than normal.   
 Q.  I thought that THE round got progressively harder because the greens started firming up and the wind seemed like it was gusty?  
COLT KNOST: The wind was very gusty.  Probably saw me back off a few coming in.  It's just hard.  You have the wind supposed to be out of the northeast and it's the dead opposite.  It's hard to commit to a shot.  It's a little different test today.   
 Q.  You know what you have to beat.  You took a big step towards Chicago?  
COLT KNOST: Sure.  It's nothing to lose for me this week.  I've had a solid year.  But I can always get better with one week here.   
 Q.  Great playing, just a couple of comments for our guys here.  What was going right?  Obviously the wind a factor here today?  
COLT KNOST: Yeah, the wind was very tough.  Temperature was much cooler today.  I played solid.  I kept the ball in front of me all day.  Made some really nice putts and got it up and down when I got in trouble.  Much different golf course than what we're used to, for sure.   
 Q.  When you got up this morning did you think that 4-under would be in the lead?  
COLT KNOST: No.  I still thought someone would kind of get it going really low.  I saw Jason birdie the first three.  He was a couple of groups in front of me.  The wind is blustery out there, it's really gusty, you miss it in the wrong spot out here you struggle to make par.   
 Q.  Don't the conditions fit your game?  
COLT KNOST: Yeah, it's great.  I like it when you kind of have to think your way around the golf course and try to figure out where you can leave the golf ball for your next shot.  It's not just blast it and go at everything.  You've got to think your way around out here today with the wind blowing 15 to 20 miles an hour.  We did a great job of that today.  I feel like we got jammed up once or twice, but nothing really bad.   
 Q.  You said you got jammed up, where at?  
COLT KNOST: The 11th I had it right of the green, 245 par-3.  Actually hit a good pitch and missed a short putt.   
But I think it was the 14th, the real long par-4, I missed it short right in the bunker, it was no good.  But that was really the only one where I wasn't able to get it up and down.   
 Q.  What was the highlight for you?  
COLT KNOST: You know, the whole thing.  Not making a bogey in the last 12 or 13 holes, I think, was nice.  But the birdie on 8, my 17th was really nice.  We had a nice 25-footer there.   
 Q.  I know it's early, but how do you keep from thinking about the FedExCup?  
COLT KNOST: It's hard not to think about it.  Those boards are everywhere.  I know tomorrow it's going to say projected, whatever.  It's a no-lose situation for me this week.  And I have nowhere to go but up.  If I play great my season continues.  If not I have a month off before Napa.  It's kind of a win/win for me.   
 Q.  Do you like the system?  
COLT KNOST: Yeah, I think it's cool.  There's a lot of volatility.  It's crazy.  I mean I can play well and pass guys that have played really well all year, played a lot better than I have.  But that's what it's all about.  That's why it's the playoffs.  That's why any seed in the NBA playoffs can win the championship, you never know what can happen.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT