FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 12, 2015
Colt Knost
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You got it to 8-under.   Going to be one of those special rounds.   Still a very good day for you today.  
COLT KNOST:   I played really solid all day.   Hit it great.   I just -- I hit a great shot on the 8th, my 17th, got caught up in the wind and made a pretty bad bogey.   Last I misread out of rough and came up short.   Had a pretty good bogey out of the deal.   Yeah, played well.   Disappointed to finish that way.  
   
 Q.   When you say that to post 6-under today to get yourself right in contention, you know, they talk about moving day.   Well, today is the day you got to put yourself in a position to make a weekend run.  
COLT KNOST:   After yesterday, I mean I was pretty frustrated with how I played.   I didn't do anything well yesterday.   To come out and play the way I did today was great.   You know, I had a lot of fun out there.   I did everything well today, just a couple little mistakes coming in, but it was great.   This is how I've been playing the last month or so, and it was good to get out there and get a low one today.  
   
 Q.   When you put a round like this together, as you go home tonight and realize you're right there in contention, is it kind of visualize to go try to do the same things tomorrow, even though the pin placements and conditions may be totally different?  
COLT KNOST:   Yeah, you never know what's going to happen with weather and everything.   This is one of my favorite golf courses we play all year.   I've had a good finish here before.   It sets up really well the way I'm swinging it now, give myself a lot of looks, I'll have a good weekend.  
   
 Q.   Conditions slightly tougher today?  
COLT KNOST:   Not for me.   You know, it was nice this morning.   It wasn't quite as hot, obviously, but it was definitely windier.   The pins I thought were a little tougher today.   I hit my irons really well all day and gave myself a lot of good looks.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT