BARRACUDA CHAMPIONSHIP
July 3, 2016
Colt Knost
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Another top 5.  Gotta feel pretty good about that.
COLT KNOST: Yeah.  I mean, I stole some today, but I threw a lot away.  Honestly, all week I just didn't strike it very well.  My short game saved me a lot.
It's another good week.  Yeah, I just wasn't comfortable with the ball all week.  And to get this result was pretty nice.
Q. Pretty solid?
COLT KNOST: Yeah.
Q. Did you look at the leaderboard on 18?  Did you want to make that putt just to put a little pressure on him?
COLT KNOST: I honestly thought if I finished 3-3 I might have a chance.  I hit it in there close on 17 and missed it; and, yeah, obviously I didn't think -- even if I made eagle I didn't think I'd win.  But you never know.  But I thought if I finished 3-3, might have a chance.
Q. What's been up with your game the last few months; it's been playing great?
COLT KNOST: I've really been focused on my golf and working hard.  I think I'm just doing what -- playing the game the way I know how to play, instead of trying to do too much, trying to hit it too far and all this.  Just play my game, let the course come to me and not worry about all the other stuff that's going on.
With the way I play, I should have a lot of really solid consistent finishes.  I don't hit it out of play very often and I should have a lot of chances every week.
Q. Last year confidence.  This year also a career year, and this year is getting even better.
COLT KNOST: Last year was good, but I still think there's way more ahead of me.  This year has been great.  Made 19 of 20 cuts.  And maybe three top 5s so far and contending at THE PLAYERS.
Yeah, this is what I feel like I'm supposed to do.  This is coming out of college I was pretty highly up there, and it just took me a little while to get comfortable.  Now I feel like every week I should be able to compete.
Q. This golf course, too, has not been one of your stronger golf courses in the past.  Is that another good sign, too?
COLT KNOST: Yeah, this is a tricky golf course.  You can hit it great and struggle with the altitude and everything.  But I played pretty good here last year and just kind of fed off it.  I've always liked this place.  I just never had any success until last year.
Q. Do you think that shot on 18 had any shot of going in?  It looked good.
COLT KNOST: From where we were, looked like it went right over the edge of the hole.  That would have been pretty special, then.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT