RBC HERITAGE
April 13, 2012
Colt Knost
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MARK STEVENS:   I'd like to welcome Colt Knost.   Colt, impressive bogey‑free round today.   Talk about your round and then we'll have a few questions.
COLT KNOST:   You know, it's been a really solid two days for me.   Definitely got on the lucky side of the draw with the wind.   And I guess it was a little cold yesterday morning I heard.   Very pleased with how I'm playing right now, striking it well, and making a few putts.   I love Harbour Town, it's one of the favorite courses all year.   It sets up well for me and I'm looking forward to the weekend.

Q.   What are some of the things you're are doing right this week?
COLT KNOST:   Honestly I'm just doing everything really solid.   I feel like I'm driving it really well.   I don't know how many fairways I've hit or greens, but I know that I have not been in very much trouble.   I haven't short‑sided myself much this week, which is huge out here.   When I have missed the green I felt like I've been able to putt from the closely mown areas.   I'm minimizing my mistakes.   And I take advantage when I have a short iron into most of the holes. 
This place is still really tough.   The wind started blowing at the ends of the day today.   It swirled so much out there, it's hard.   You never know where the wind is coming from.

Q.   Coming out of college and your amateur career, Public Links and U.S. Am, won a couple of events on the Nationwide.   So you're progressing quickly there.   Can you assess your learning curve as a pro, and what do you think has taken you a while to progress?
COLT KNOST:   I don't really know why it happened that way.   Like I said, I had a great amateur career, and I came out on the Nationwide Tour, which I felt was the best spot for me at the time.   I won twice quickly.   I felt like I was ready for this level out here, and apparently I wasn't.   I don't know if I just didn't continue with the same work ethic or not or I didn't have the belief, but it was a struggle for a few years out here.   But now I feel like I'm starting to get my game back where I like it, and I'm starting to play really well, I'm starting to play really consistent. 
I had one good finish this year, but I'm making a lot of cuts, which is a step in the right direction for me.   Today I felt so comfortable out there being around the lead, even though it's only Friday.   I think I'm going to feel great this weekend.

Q.   Just one bogey in two days, do you feel like you're playing conservatively?   And if not, where is it on the course that you're getting aggressive?
COLT KNOST:   You know, the greens are so small out here, you can't really play conservative.   If you hit the green, you're going to have 15, 20 feet.   I feel like there's a few holes you have to get through, like No. 8 for example is a tough one.   4 is tough.   All the par‑3s are very tough out here.   It's kind of like you take three on all of them and run.
When I have a good number and it's a green light to me, I'm going.   These guys are going to shoot low scores out here.   They're too good.   They're way too good to play conservative.   And I'm just trying to take advantage of my opportunities when I have them.   And I did that for the most part today.

Q.   Q‑School you were obviously quite emotional when you got your card and you thought you missed it.   Not to get ahead of ourselves here, but what would a victory here mean to you?
COLT KNOST:   Yeah, you know, I mean, a win is obviously my goal.   I mean, one of my goals this year is to win.   I got kind of lucky there at Q‑School with the way I finished, and I was emotional about it and I'll be the first to admit it.   My caddie said, "This is going to make you better," and I feel like it has.   I'm stronger mentally now.   I'm happy with how my game is and I'm happy with how I'm progressing.   I have many goals to year, but winning is one of them.   But there's a long way to go.   I like my chances, and I love the way I'm playing right now.

Q.   Talk about Q‑School, how do you feel about the new plan where you're not going to be able to play in the PGA TOUR from the Q‑School, you can only get to the Nationwide?
COLT KNOST:   I have mixed emotions about it.   I like the fact that a guy can go from nothing to being on the PGA TOUR, in my opinion.   But at the same time I understand, like for me the Nationwide Tour was the best spot for me to be starting out. 
Like I said, I have mixed emotions about it.   But I think it's kind of sad that a guy can't go‑‑ like Tommy Gainey went from kind of a nothing to being out there.   Several guys.   I felt like a lot of the young guys that are really stand‑out amateurs are going to turn pro this year because it's their last chance to get out there.   Like Patrick Cantlay and   Jordan Spieth, I wouldn't be surprised if they're done with Q‑School.
The Tour knows what they're doing, and they'll do the right thing.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT