TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 26, 2009
Colt Knost
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. 4-under par effort, first round, second round, 8-under par overall. What do you think?  
 COLT KNOST: Yeah. Playing pretty solid. Hitting a lot of fairways, a lot of greens. Didn't get the putter going the last few days, but if I do on the weekend, it could be really good. Finally started playing good.  
  
  Q. Tell us about how the golf course is playing today.   
 COLT KNOST: The wind really hadn't blown either day, but the rain was kind of annoying out there, kind of coming and going, but it's pretty soft, so you can get at most of the pins.  
  
  Q. You were talking about your game coming around. You were in a car accident a couple weeks ago. What happened? How are you doing?  
 COLT KNOST: Yeah. A couple days before the U.S. Open qualifier in Memphis I got hit by a drunk driver. They were going the wrong way on a one-way street.   
  
  Q. Oh, no.   
 COLT KNOST: Banged me up pretty good. Probably shouldn't have played Memphis, but felt like I needed to, but then took pretty much most of the U.S. Open week off and was rehabbing, and just came out here, and feeling pretty good about things.   
  
  Q. It's good to have you here and have you healthy as well. Well done through 36 holes.   
 COLT KNOST: Thanks a lot.   
  
  Q. Did you notice any change in the course from yesterday to today as far as the rain or is it still pretty soft?  
 COLT KNOST: It's still pretty soft. Pretty much played pretty similar the last two days.   
  
  Q. Nice to see you playing well. It's been kind of a struggle, hit and miss this year for you. What do you think it is that's kind of turned this year around?  
 COLT KNOST: Honestly my attitude's changed a lot. Just taking a lot of pressure off myself, just trying to relax out there and have fun and get back to the way I was playing last year, with no pressure.   
 I don't know why I just put a lot of pressure on myself early this year, and just really hadn't worked out well for me.  
  
  Q. You had a car accident a few weeks ago you were saying. Did that almost perspective wise kind of align things a little?  
 COLT KNOST: Yeah. That's really, I mean honestly, the reason my attitude has changed I feel like. It could've been a lot worse than it was. I could be in bed right now and not playing out here, so I feel very lucky to be playing this game for a living and that's the way I'm just going about it now.   
  
  Q. And just a little bit sore now or what are you still feeling?  
 COLT KNOST: I'm almost 100 percent now. The guys in the trailer are really helping me out and Dr. Troy Van Beezen in Dallas really got me in shape to come play this week.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT