HP BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 21, 2009
Colt Knost
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You started day with a 67 here on day 1. Talk about your round.   
 COLT KNOST: I got off to a good start, birdied the first two holes. I played pretty solid all day. I had three terrible mistakes. I three-putted twice, missed two two-and-a-half-footers, and that bogey from 136 yards on the last was pretty disappointing. But after the start, this golf course, it's tough to take it low on, and I played pretty solid today, a lot better than I've been playing.  
  
  Q. How special is it for a local guy to play in the HP Byron Nelson Championship?  
 COLT KNOST: Yeah, it's awesome to play out here with my family and friends watching. Obviously this tournament was my first tournament as a pro tournament, and it's always fun to play here. I feel like I put a lot of pressure on myself to play well, and I'm pretty happy with the start.  
  
  Q. How often have you dreamed, fantasized, whatever it is, about playing well if not winning here?  
 COLT KNOST: Yeah, obviously next to a major, this would probably be my No. 1 tournament to win, just because it's at home. If I ever win here, it'll be the biggest party they've ever seen.  
  
  Q. The question is are you hosting a get-together tonight? Are you trying to keep it business as usual with this being a local tournament? What's the story?  
 COLT KNOST: I'm just taking it easy. Practicing a little bit, eat some lunch and go to the pavilion, hang out and go home.   
  
  Q. Talk about your round.   
 COLT KNOST: I made a few nice putts out there, but I missed a lot of short ones. I had just mental mistakes, not paying attention, missing two little tap-ins. This start is a lot better than I've been playing.  
  
  Q. A couple years ago you made the run while still in college. What do you draw from that experience?  
 COLT KNOST: Yeah, it's a different golf course now, but still, I know I can play well here, and it's just so much fun for me to play in front of my friends and family, just feed off their energy and everything. It's also kind of nerve-wracking for me. I put a lot of pressure on myself to play well.  
  
  Q. Is it easier or more difficult?  
 COLT KNOST: I think it's more difficult, just because I've got so much support out there and I know I get to this point and I don't want to play bad. I just want to play well in front of them.  
  
  Q. What's been holding you up? Do you think you're close?  
 COLT KNOST: Yeah, I think I'm very close. I missed my last three cuts all by one or two shots, and it's just been up-and-down, a lot of birdies, a lot of bogeys. Today I made six birdies, three bogeys, and that's kind of how it's been all year. It's normally been around five birdies, five bogeys a round. But I haven't gotten it going all four days, and hopefully it'll be this week.   
 I had some birdie opportunities out there and just had trouble with the wind on the last hole and just really wasn't committed to the shot. I still had a chance to make par and hit a bad putt. Still 3-under, so I'll take it.  
  
  Q. Overall you've got to be pretty happy with the way you played in the opening round.   
 COLT KNOST: Yeah, especially the way I've played all year. It's nice to get off to a good start. I haven't shot anything low the first round.  
  
  Q. Do you get the sense you have a familiarity with this course and that kind of helps you out a little bit?  
 COLT KNOST: Yeah, I've been playing out here a lot getting ready for this whenever I'm home. I feel pretty comfortable on this course.  
  
  Q. Looking ahead to round 2, is there something you're going to take from this round that you can correct for tomorrow? Are there other things you can learn from today and take into round 2?  
 COLT KNOST: Yeah, you always learn something after each round. I'm driving it so well, I've just got to keep the ball in play and give myself some chances. I'm rolling it really well. I just missed three little short ones, but other than that, it was a pretty good day with the putter.  
  
  Q. As far as being a local guy, how was the gallery support out there?  
 COLT KNOST: Yeah, it was a little early to tee off out there, so not a lot of people out, but I'm sure tomorrow it'll get a little rowdy out there.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT