BARRACUDA CHAMPIONSHIP
July 1, 2016
Colt Knost
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Thoughts on the second round today?
COLT KNOST: Yeah, a lot of good and a lot of bad, honestly.  Yesterday I really wasn't happy with my ball-striking.  And today I thought I found something on the range.  And I hit some better ones but kind of still a little sloppy, but definitely plays tougher here in the afternoon and the greens get a little bumpy.
Q. Another made cut.  You've only missed one all year.  Pretty impressed with your consistency, and was that a focus coming into this year?
COLT KNOST: Yeah, for sure.  That's one thing I've been trying to work on the last couple of years, trying to get a little more consistent.  I feel like with the style of my game I should be, the way I play the game, should be consistent.
And I'm proud of that this year.  Yeah, I'm just trying to get into contention going into every weekend and see what happens.
Q. Obviously had a great year heading into May.  But seems like you really found something the last two months, two top 4s, the 63 at THE PLAYERS and another top 20 last week, good week so far this week.  What have you found the last two months?
COLT KNOST: Honestly, I took two weeks off to rest my thumb that was pretty banged up, New Orleans and San Antonio, and kind of came back refreshed and was kind of, honestly, lucky to be playing, I thought.  They told me they thought I would have to have thumb surgery and was fortunate enough not to have to do that and been playing great ever since.
Q. What do you think the difference was today, since last Friday, you really had a great round today?
COLT KNOST: I played solid today.  Just the wind blew a little bit this afternoon.  It plays harder and the greens get firmer and they're bumpier.  Yesterday, first off, we had no wind all day and the greens were perfect and you could go get it.  When the wind blows out here, this play doesn't play that easy because it swirls in the trees a lot.
Q. You have to like the position you're in heading into the weekend.
COLT KNOST: For sure.  Three points back I think.  In this format, things change so fast.  But, yeah, I think I'm getting better each day.  Had two weeks off before this and a little rusty coming in, but the game feels better each day.
Q. I think you said that you were moving out west to focus on your game more.  Did you do that?  Where did you move?
COLT KNOST: Moved to Scottsdale two months ago.  I was out there all winter just working on my game out at Whisper Rock and decided to make the move permanent and just really allows me to focus on golf and everything, which is great.  I think it's a big reason why I'm playing so well this year.
Q. I was going to say:  Is there anything you've been focused on while you've been out there?  You've seen it pay off recently.
COLT KNOST: I'm around a lot of other TOUR players who push me.  When we play games, there's mostly TOUR players and a lot of other guys that are really good.  And you get pushed a lot and you want to get beat by them any day.  And they definitely make you play better.
Q. Tying that course record at THE PLAYERS, is that a confidence booster for you, seen any results from that, come from that?
COLT KNOST: Yeah, it was cool to do it.  It was awesome.  But, no, it's just one round.  I just try to focus on each round ahead of me.  Yeah, it was really cool to do that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT