U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 24, 2007
Colt Knost
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   CRAIG SMITH:  Welcome back again, Colt.  Obviously the streak continues here.  I'm looking at five birdies in the first 13 holes and you lost only the second hole.  But when I looked back at all of your matches, it starts even earlier, on that first hole, you've won it every day. 
 COLT KNOST:  Um-hum.  Yeah.  I got off with a birdie, I guess the first day I went with a par.  But birdied it every time since.  And I don't know, I just feel like that's a good key to get up early. 
 CRAIG SMITH:  I think today your game is showing with each day you're improving.  There may be some concession birdies in there, but they're birdies none the less.  Are you feeling like that? 
 COLT KNOST:  The first, my first match I played awful and then yesterday I played pretty solid.  And today I hit it really good.  And if my putter would have been got going it would have been over real early.  I mean, I hit it pretty solid.  I was 3-under and I think I missed four putts inside six feet.  So it could have been pretty good. 
 CRAIG SMITH:  I know you're not surprising yourself, you're an accomplished golfer, but this golf course is hard, but it's not feeling very hard to you right now. 
 COLT KNOST:  I've just been keeping it in the fairway.  If you keep it in the fairway you really don't have that long of irons into these greens.  The hard part is getting it in the fairway though.  But once you do, you can attack, the greens are perfect.  And my iron game has been pretty solid this week. 

 Q.  Can you just talk about, you've been on a run in match play now that's been pretty impressive.  Is there something -- have you figured something out in your own mind where you're feeling comfortable out there or is it just your game's been playing well this week or I'm curious why you feel like you've been able to obviously go through, not only the Public Links, but here now. 
 COLT KNOST:  I've just put the pressure on my opponent every time.  I would be interested to see, I know at the Public Links in six matches I made seven bogeys.  And I would like to know how many bogeys I made here.  It can't be too many.  I give away very few holes with bogeys.  I make people make birdies to beat me.  I think that's the biggest thing to do out here.  When you're doing that, you're going to be hard to beat.  I think I've been under par on almost every match this week.  And that's pretty solid out here. 
 CRAIG SMITH:  So if I say you got two matches left and you can take pars on every hole? 
 COLT KNOST:  I'll win. 
 CRAIG SMITH:  Take your chances. 
 COLT KNOST:  I would probably win.  Yeah.  I would think.  It would be close at least. 
 CRAIG SMITH:  Let's go away from golf for a second.  Is this a good luck, I means it's Johnny Cash look, a little dark black. 
 COLT KNOST:  I bought that yesterday.  I bought one in the pro shop.  And then I got this from Titleist guy today, I just don't have any long sleeve shirts.  So it was cold out there, so it happened to be black.  It will be a different color tomorrow probably. 

 Q.  Do you need to get into some kind of packing things?  At the APL you ran out of shirts for the last day, you had to go buy one. 
 COLT KNOST:  It was one shirt, Ron, just one.  I just didn't bring long sleeve this week.  Relax.  Gosh. 
 (Laughter.) 
 COLT KNOST:  Brutal.  One time. 

 Q.  Seemed like the wind was a little up-and-down today. 
 COLT KNOST:  It was playing tough out there.  It was very tough.  It seemed like every time the pin was on the right the wind was blowing right-to-left.  It was just so hard to get.  And on the left blowing left-to-right.  It was one of those days where it was really hard to get to.  You had to hit really solid shots.  If you mishit it and got it up in the wind it could go anywhere. 
 That's what happened to Nick out there, he just didn't hit it real solid and put himself in some bad spots. 
 CRAIG SMITH:  Talk a little bit yesterday about how you started playing competitive golf at 16, and were a semi-finalist for College Player of the Year, now, that's a short span.  Was there a period where it kicked in that you were pretty good at this? 
 COLT KNOST:  I don't know.  Honestly going into my freshman year of college I kind of didn't know how I would do out there.  And then I played really well my first college event out and then almost won like my third one.  Got beat by Chris Stroud who is doing really pretty well now and kind of felt like he's one of the best players in the country, I feel like I can probably play out here.  I just kept getting better each year.  And I don't know.  I feel like I get better every day. 

 Q.  Was there any one particular tournament or whatever where you finally just said, you know, I belong out here, I can play with these guys? 
 COLT KNOST:  Probably when I got my first college win at out at Pepperdine.  I beat Michael Putnam.  And that really helped.  And then I think later on that fall I beat Jeff over to know.  So two All-Americans that I went head to head with and came out on top.  And that really gave me a lot of confidence. 
 CRAIG SMITH:  Does it make it easier to win when you're not afraid to lose?  I get a feeling that you're okay whether you win or you lose. 
 COLT KNOST:  Yeah, I am.  I definitely want to win this thing a lot.  I think it would solidify, it would be a great follow-up to the Public Links.  But I think that if you look at it, I've got Walker Cup already and I've got Augusta already, so I mean, I just, it would be a great honor to win, but you can't be afraid to go out there and do it. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT