BARRACUDA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 30, 2016
Colt Knost
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 13 points.  Obviously off to a great start day one.  Just a few comments about the round?
COLT KNOST: Yeah, being first off out here was a nice advantage.  Wasn't too hot this morning.  The greens were perfect.  It's a fun golf course.  This outfit is tough, though.  But never really got in trouble too much.  Made quite a few greens out there.  One bogey.  Played pretty solid.
Q. Speaking of the altitude, how much did you have to adapt your game knowing that the ball's going to travel so much different distance than you're used to?
COLT KNOST: It's fine in the afternoon.  In the morning, when it's a little cooler, not sure it's going to go 10 or not.  We got tricked a little bit on the first couple of holes.  You know at some point it's going to start going around 10 percent.  But this morning it was pretty warm, so it got going pretty early.
Q. Generally, coming into the week, how do you feel about your game?  You had some good weeks and you seem to be happy, content, playing real well?
COLT KNOST: I've had two weeks off.  Honestly, a little rusty coming in, didn't feel great about my game.  Honestly missed a lot of shots today but kind of got away with it.  A lot of short irons in out here and I was able to take advantage of those.  Need to take advantage of the par 5s a little better tomorrow.
Q. More confidence going into tomorrow, too, playing so well on the first day?
COLT KNOST: Yeah, it's great.  It's always nice to get off to a good start.  I would say this year my weakest round is Thursday.  It's nice.  And a format like this, just gotta keep the pedal down and make as many birdies as you can.  Brendan is going really low early right now.  Yeah, you can get this place.  (Inaudible).
Q. Does the format make you want to be more aggressive?
COLT KNOST: For sure.
Q. Versus the regular stroke play?
COLT KNOST: Birdie and bogey is better than two pars.  You can kind of go at it.  Bogeys don't really hurt you here.
Q. Pick it up after a double, too, right?
COLT KNOST: Right.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT