AT&T BYRON NELSON
May 22, 2016
Colt Knost
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Colt, nice playing out there today.  Just get some comments on your final round.
COLT KNOST: Yeah.  Just kind of fed off last week.  You know, I had a lot of confidence coming in.  Was a little flat coming out there today, I think I was a little tired.  Got right back to where I was on Friday and then today was just awesome finish.  Birdied the last two, was great, but I don't know.  Got a lot of confidence right now and kind of want to keep carrying it over and give myself a good chance at Colonial next week.
Q. How much does it mean to play well here?
COLT KNOST: It's tough playing in front of your family and friends.  You put a little pressure on yourself.  But the last few years have been awesome.  I finished 10th last year and I don't know what's going to happen this year but it was great.
Q. How did the course play today?
COLT KNOST: Little tougher.  The wind is starting to blow a little more.  Greens have a little bit of bounce in them compared to normal.  They're still soft.  There's obviously low scores out there definitely.  The windiest it's been all week.
Q. You talked last week about getting ready for this stretch with Colonial at the end, the one that you feel suits you the best.  Can you remember having this much confidence?
COLT KNOST: No.  It's been awhile.  I put so much pressure on myself to play well at these two events the last couple of years and last year was good, I finished 10th at both of them but I'm just -- I've got so much confidence in what I'm doing right now.
Being able to do it at this stage, I mean The Players was such a big event.  Being able to hold up like I did on Sunday gives me so much confidence and coming in here, shooting another 63 Friday and 65 today, I mean my game is just -- it's great right now.
If I can cut out a few little mistakes here and there I know I'll have a chance to win.
Q. What was the turn 'round?  When did you really feel like your game was --
COLT KNOST: Honestly at Hilton Head I was told I was done for the year.  My thumb had been bothering me real bad.  They thought I had two torn ligaments in my thumb, which I didn't.  I have a small cyst in there.  I took two weeks off, skipped Valero and New Orleans and just rested and it's the best it's felt in a year and, I don't know, maybe just the rest just really helped.  I'm a guy who likes to play a lot.  Maybe I need to take some time off.
Q. Which thumb?
COLT KNOST: Left thumb.
Q. Doctors told you you were done.
COLT KNOST: Well, I got an analysis from a guy that he thought it was torn and I went to a specialist in Scottsdale and did an MRI.  Little bit of wear and tear on the ligaments.  Small cyst that will have to be removed.
Probably the best thing that could have happened, taking two weeks off, refreshed and, honestly, came back out and played pretty good at Charlotte, a terrible golf course for me.  Played all right.
Last week, like I told you, it's just my golf course.  I feel like I can play well there every time I tee it up and coming here I played here so much, it's always nice to come back and next week is another one I go to.  Keep this confidence going.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT