AT&T BYRON NELSON
May 18, 2016
Colt Knost
Nick Schmidt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOHN BUSH: We're going to open up the Colt Knost interview today with a quick message about the PGA TOUR Volunteer Challenge sponsored by Myrbetriq and the importance of volunteers at this tournament.
As many of you know, this tournament has raised more than $143 million for local charities since its inception in 1968.  This year fans can contribute to the charitable giving at the tournament by participating in the PGA TOUR Volunteer Challenge sponsored by Myrbetriq.
This competition is designed to raise funds for charity while recognizing the talents and passion of the Tour's more than 100,000 tournament volunteers nationwide, including more than 1,000 this week.
All proceeds from the Volunteer Challenge sponsored by Myrbetriq will benefit the Momentous Institute, the non-profit owned and operated by the Salesmanship Club of Dallas.
From now until 1:00 p.m. Central on Saturday, fans are encouraged to visit PGATOUR.com/Volunteers and vote for their favorite AT&T Byron Nelson volunteer.
With that, we would like to introduce Mr. Nick Schmidt.  Nick is from Lewisville, Texas.  He's volunteered at this tournament I believe for over 20 years.  He's currently helping as a standard bearer and he also has volunteered at an LPGA event in Irving.
Let me open, Nick, if you can just talk a little bit what volunteering has meant to you over the years.
NICK SCHMIDT: I started volunteering 20 years ago and I'm not sure I'd like it but I've grown to just absolutely love it.  I give up vacations.
Meeting the golfers, meeting the other volunteers, made some lifelong friends of volunteers and knowing that we're helping out in some small way I guess with the charity, the Momentous Institute, getting them funding for the things they do.
But the most fun part is just being around the golfers and seeing how they interact with their caddies and the other players in the group.  It's just phenomenal.
JOHN BUSH: The winner of the Volunteer Challenge sponsored by Myrbetriq this week will be able to present a $10,000 check to the Momentous Institute.
I know you'd love to be able to have that opportunity.  Can you talk a little bit about what the fans can do to help your cause?
NICK SCHMIDT: You can go out to the PGATOUR.com/Volunteers website and select the AT&T Byron Nelson as the tournament, and there's a list of all the volunteers.  You just select the volunteer to vote for.
And if you happen to pick me, that would be okay.  Volunteer to vote for, provide a little information on yourself and hit submit.
The tournament with the most votes gets to also be in the running throughout the year also in the running for additional financial contributions to the charity of our choice.
JOHN BUSH: Last question, Nick, just comment a little bit, I think you've met Mr. Byron Nelson in the past.  Just talk a little bit about what he meant to you and about that opportunity of meeting him.
NICK SCHMIDT: Mr. Nelson was just -- everything you see and hear and read about him is to me, as a volunteer, and we're just volunteers, I mean we're cogs I guess in the wheel, we're just volunteers.
He treated all of us just like we were one of his friends and I had purchased a book of his shortly before one of the tournaments and actually got to go up to him, kneel down next to him, asked him if he would sign that book.
He signed it, he personalized it and then he looked me in the eye and he thanked me for helping out and that's just -- I mean that's just the kind of guy he is and, honestly, Mr. Knost and all the PGA golfers are the exact same way.  They understand and they thank the volunteers just religiously.
But, Byron Nelson was a phenomenal guy.  We sure miss him.
JOHN BUSH: Colt, we'd like to ask you the importance of the volunteers to the Tour.  I know this tournament means an awful lot to you.
COLT KNOST: Obviously this tournament is very special me, my first ever PGA TOUR event and, you know, at the time I think when I first got out here I didn't realize how important the volunteers were but now that I've been out here for so long, just no tournament could happen without you guys.
I mean it's just amazing the hours you put in and, like you said, taking off vacation to do this, like it means so much to us and without y'all these tournaments couldn't run nearly as smoothly as they do.
You know, it's just -- you are kind of behind the scenes and don't get probably the thank you y'all deserve.  As player we really do appreciate it.  I can't thank you all enough.
JOHN BUSH: Do we have any questions for Mr. Schmidt before we go into Colt's regular press conference?  Anything?  Okay.  Nick, we appreciate it.
NICK SCHMIDT: Appreciate the opportunity.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT