BIG 12 CHAMPIONSHIP GAME: OKLAHOMA v COLORADO
December 4, 2004
Jamal Brown
Mark Clayton
Dan Cody
Antonio Perkins
Adrian Peterson
Bob Stoops
Jason White
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
COACH STOOPS: Thank you.  First, just still want to compliment Colorado for fighting their way into the championship game.  It takes a lot of character to go through what they have, and to come out as North champs and represent the north in this game. We have a lot of respect for them.  They have been at three of the last four, so we came in and, really, with a great understanding of their pride and their program, very proud of our players, not just the ones that are up here, the guys in the locker room and coaching staff, the way they prepared.  Really felt there was an edge all week and really we were ready to play.  Fortunately, we came out and executed all parts of the game in a great way today.  Outside of a few penalties, I don't have much as a coach to complain about.  I appreciate their efforts, their hard work through the year, and the  
 Big 12 champs especially.  That is really important to us.  Again, that's where our season starts every year when we look at our goals, and it's important and we are very proud of these guys for their work.  
 
 
Q.  You came back this year to take a championship, conference championship, another shot at a national title.  Are you going to think about the Heisman a little bit, especially with the performance you had tonight? 
 
JASON WHITE:  I am trying to enjoy the victory.  Heisman is great and it's a fun opportunity.  Words can't speak how much fun it is and just to be around the greats that are there, but right now I am enjoying the victory we had tonight.  It's one of the main reasons I came back.  It proved to work, so it's a little better feeling than I had sitting up here last year.  
 
Q.  Coach Stoops, is this as complete as a ballgame as you have played all year?
 
COACH STOOPS: Definitely.  I imagine we have been awfully close.  Our last three games, I think, for the most part, have been very close and have been on the verge of that.  You know, even through the year we were waiting, I knew we were -- we hadn't really clicked or put it all together, and the last couple of weeks it has been awfully close, and then it really hit tonight definitely and played like we are capable of and executed all parts of the game.  
 
Q.  Coach Stoops, given the subjective nature of the BCS, did you feel like you not only had to win, but you had to win decisively?
 
COACH STOOPS: I didn't really feel that way, although we did.  I believed to come into a game like that we have two reasons, we have too much respect for Colorado to come in that way, and to come in that way would be arrogant and we are not as a team.  We felt we needed to come in and play our best and have a chance to win.  Fortunately, it worked out this way where we won.  Whether it matters to anyone how you win these days, we can't concern ourselves with that.  Just play as well as we can and won a championship first anyway we can get it.  
 
Q.  Coach, can you compare the running game today to what happened two years ago in the championship and how well you ran against Houston?
 
COACH STOOPS: It is hard to think about that.  I think Clinter [ph] had an excellent day that day as well, from what I remember.  We just have a little different style now in our running attack.  We just are in the "I" more and I think it's fair to say AD's style of run is a little different than Kejuan's.  Both are effective.  Kejuan Jones was in there also and had a nice day.  
 
Q.  You have had some legendary defensive performances since your tenure at Oklahoma.  You hold a Colorado team under 50 yards offense, they get a field goal against you, but does it go down as best of the best?
 
COACH STOOPS: In a championship game and to play this way defensively was so impressive.  The guys were just sound, no bus, tackled well, defensive penetration against the run game.  It was, those coaches, Bobby, Bo, Jackie really had them ready to play and had a great game plan. 
 
Q.  This is for any of you guys.
 
COACH STOOPS: We will let Dan take it.  
 
Q.  How tough is it to turn on the television, you guys play your hearts out, win a game, go home to the dorm and people on the television saying Oklahoma doesn't deserve to be in a national championship game.  Tonight is that a statement to them?
 
DAN CODY:  Not necessarily because year in, year out, we are all about making it to the championship game.  We are not making any statements when we go and win a championship except to ourselves.  We built this team.   
 Coach Stoops has built this team around defense and winning championships, and this year is no exception.  I haven't had cable since last Spring Break so I don't even watch TV. 
 
COACH STOOPS: Monthly check isn't cutting it.   
 
Q.  Your offensive players, how important was it that opening drive, taking it right down the field to score the running and passing game?
 
COACH STOOPS: We will let Mark take that.  
 
MARK CLAYTON:  It was very important for us.  Through the week we practiced hard on the running game as well as the pass for us to come out and execute.  The score was big.  It was a momentum builder for us.  
 
Q.  You have had an amazing freshman season.  You get the record for the 100 yard game freshman player tonight.  Is this the sweetest game for you? 
 
ANTONIO PERKINS:  I am just excited about a win in the Big 12.  I want to say it's an exciting game, but I am just excited right now. 
 
COACH STOOPS: Control yourself.  
 
Q.  Coach Stoops, in 2000 you were in the same position, beat Kansas State here to beat Miami to go on to the Orange  Bowl.  This year you are doing it with players your coaches recruited.  Is that more satisfying, that you know that your programs work?  Talk a little bit about recruiting these players to be in this position.
 
COACH STOOPS: They are special to me, but those players that we didn't recruit that were here, some that were on that team were special to us, too.  We said that today.  The players in '99 that went to the Independence Bowl laid the foundation for our Orange  Bowl run the next year.  They are all important to us.  Once we took over, whether we recruit them or not, I don't look it at that way.  That group is awful special, too.  To me, I can't compare the two.  There are eery similarities between the schedule, who we play on the road, who we played at home, and the way this has gone that are very similar to the run we had in 2000. 
 
Q.  For any of the seniors, I know the emphasis you guys put on finishing in your preseason conditioning just talking about finishing your season, if this is the kind of performance you had in mind.
 
COACH STOOPS: Jammal, you have that one.  
 
JAMMAL BROWN:   Just finishing was -- we talked a lot about just finishing, and that's what we went through in the off-season and workouts, finishing our running, our workout, and you go strong.  This is what we basically wanted to finish the season, just come out here and win the Big 12 South first and the championship.  Finishing was real important.  That has been our motto through the whole year.  
 
Q.  Coach, how complete of a team is this that you have?
 
COACH STOOPS: There aren't any parts missing, I don't believe.  I believe we are solid all the way through.  Offensively we have the balance, ability to make plays, running or throwing, and make a lot of big plays that way.  Our defense has been very good through 12 games.  There are a couple of games in there where we gave up a few passes.  The rest of the teams, we have played awfully well.  Special teams, also.  Tonight I thought special teams were just excellent the entire night.  We are capable of playing this way and we have been all year.  Fortunately it came at the right time.  
 
Q.  Jason and Jammal, growing up in Oklahoma does it feel like the Orange  Bowl is the right place for you to play in the post-season?
 
COACH STOOPS: Let Perk start with that.  He is an Oklahoma guy.  
 
ANTONIO PERKINS:  Well, we know how Oklahoma does well in the Orange  Bowl and we feel like we are capable of doing well there, too.  We look forward to having the invitation to bid there.  
 
JAMMAL BROWN:   Just kind of the same as Perk said, Oklahoma plays well in the Orange  Bowl and last time we were there we came out with a victory, so we hope to get a V too.  
 
JASON WHITE:  They said it all.  
 
Q.  Bob, can you talk about the play your defensive line, particularly Mo Dampeer came up with big plays.  Do you have any idea what Remi's status will be because of the altercation on the field?
 
COACH STOOPS: Mo looked like he was playing DB out there knocking balls down.  The entire D ends, Dan, AJ, Larry, the guys had great penetration.  The guys inside, Lynn and Mo was in there a lot, and Carl really disrupted the line of scrimmage.  I thought that was the biggest key defensively is the fact that we really were great against the run game is what we always want to be.  That's where it starts for us.  They did a great job up front.  As far as, no, from what he told me, it was just a disqualification for this game.  It wasn't a fight.  It's just an ejection from the game and that's it.  
 
Q.  Coach, how aware were you guys what was going on before the scores of USC and Auburn before the game?
 
COACH STOOPS: I wasn't at all, to be honest with you.  I didn't watch any of them and wasn't looking for any scores.  I don't know if you guys can talk about it.  Did you watch any, Dan?  You had cable at the hotel.  
 
DAN CODY:  Cable at the hotel, but I was sleeping.  
 
Q.  Adrian, I saw you munching on that orange after the game.  What are your thoughts now that your team has done everything you guys can to go to the Orange  Bowl and how did that orange taste? 
 
ANTONIO PERKINS:  Orange was great, sweet.  I will slow down so you can understand what I am saying.  I don't know.  This whole season we don't play -- we made a statement today, but we went out there and busted our butt four quarters.  I don't know how you do it, but whatever they decide, it will be cool.  It will be cool. 
 
COACH STOOPS: I don't know if you are being totally honest, but -- 
 
Q.  How valuable do you feel Antonio's return has been to your secondary?
 
COACH STOOPS: It has been a huge boost.  Antonio, I always felt unfairly was recognized always as the best return man in the country, but he is a great quarterback.  We have know known that for a long time.  He has been out there three years now, and it has been obvious having him back the last several weeks, there is a difference there, and comes up with a huge interception again today, very solid every day.  He is there every single snap.  He is a great player out there at the corner.  
 
Q.  Jason has been low key with the Heisman all year and AD is pretty low key about everything tonight.  Who would you tell the voters, Coach?
 
COACH STOOPS: I don't know.  I would say as a team all of us, you know, appreciate these guys.  You know, for me I am up here with a great group of players.  In the locker room is a great group of players.  It is hard for me to sit and talk about one or two.  These guys are great.  They are tremendous.  You see it, you know, every week.  They have complimented each other in a great way.  Our run in the past, I think, made a major difference, this year the fact that we are strong in both.  There are a lot of these guys helping.  I wouldn't be the one to choose.  That wouldn't be fair.  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT