COLLEGE FOOTBALL PLAYOFF SEMIFINAL AT THE CAPITAL ONE ORANGE BOWL: CLEMSON VS OKLAHOMA
December 29, 2015
Bob Stoops
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What's your week been like?
BOB STOOPS: The week has been great.  You know, everybody, guys have done a great job in meetings, and practices, I've felt great about the way they've gone.  Everybody down here associated with the Orange Bowl does everything in a first-class manner, from our facility at Barry University that we're using to practice has been great, the hotel has been outstanding, so it's been a great week.
Q. How have you handled this week different than say your National Championship Game?  Have you handled things differently?
BOB STOOPS: About the only thing different is we've got down here maybe a day later than we normally would.  You know, and there's just an anticipation of another game, so it just seems different in that it may not be the end, so that's kind of out there, I'm sure, for all four teams.
So that part of it is a little bit different, as well.  But as far as practice goes and those kind of things, it's been the same.
Q. How are you health-wise, injury-wise?  You had some guys banged up at the end of the year.
BOB STOOPS: No, everybody is in good shape, healthy and ready to go.
Q. If you look at Clemson, what's the first thing offensively that you look at, Deshaun Watson gets a lot of attention at quarterback, but what do you look at first that you've got to take away?
BOB STOOPS: You know, it's hard to take away anything with them because of the skill in all areas.  They've got a great tight end, Leggett, exceptional tight end, great hands.  Then you look outside at Scott out at wide receiver, and then Gallman running the football.  All of it, you know, they've got weapons everywhere, so it really makes it challenging to stop any one of them.
Q. Deshaun Watson, what do you see when you see Deshaun Watson, the kind of player that he is?
BOB STOOPS: You know, a smooth, excellent athlete, a guy that of course runs well, throws a great ball.  You can tell what a poised leader he is.  You never see him rattled.  You know, I just see an exceptional player.
Q. You mentioned Gallman.  He has like 1,300 yards rushing.
BOB STOOPS: Well, again, I think a little bit because of how many -- all the other players that they have that are all excellent players, but Gallman is a big part of their offense for sure.
Q. Defensively, last year the turnovers took you totally out of the game.  Does that matter this year what happened last year?
BOB STOOPS: It doesn't matter if it's brought up or not.  In the end it's not that long ago, so everyone does remember it.  There was a lot that we weren't very competitive in that game, they were.  They coached a heck of a lot better than we did and played a heck of a lot better than we did a year ago, so hopefully we can play better this year.
Q. To what extent do games like this shape the perception of the conference?
BOB STOOPS: You know, again, I don't get into that debate.  That's for you guys to do.  And you should.  That's what writers and people on TV get to do, and I get to play and coach.
Q. Do you think there's any carryover to next year what happens in this game?
BOB STOOPS: I don't think so.  I think every year is different.
Q. It's kind of different even though you're the 4 seed, so to speak, they beat you last year, but you're favored.  Do you like that role?
BOB STOOPS: I don't pay attention to either role, to any of that.  I'm not a -- I'm not the guy in Vegas doing that.  I just pay attention to what we're doing on the field and pay attention to the team we're going to play and how they're -- what we need to do to be prepared for them.
Q. These two programs have sustained excellence, really hard to do at this level.  What are the biggest challenges in creating excellence over time?
BOB STOOPS: I think it's constantly, because you're talking over my time, 17 years, it's a significant amount of time.  It's staying current with everything that's -- everything that goes on in the game, not just schemes, but in recruiting and players and sports medicine.  I think it's just constantly staying current in what's happening and how you can get your team better.
Q. From afar, how would you say -- obviously he's No. 1 in the country, but what has Coach Swinney done best from that perspective?
BOB STOOPS: It's hard to say when you're not there, to be there with the day-to-day operation.  But as you said, I respect the consistency and the quality of players, the quality of coaching.  It's evident when you get ready to compete against them.
Q. When quarterbacks leave schools they want to go to your school.  What's that say about your program that you got Baker and now you've got Kyle?
BOB STOOPS: Well, again, we have a long history of great quarterbacks at Oklahoma.  It goes all the way back to J. C. Watts here in the Orange Bowl, MVP.  But of course in our time there we've had two Heisman Trophy winners and Baker came in fourth this year and I think Coach Riley is doing a great job with him and will continue to, so again, I think we've been a quarterback-friendly system, and we've had some guys that really have -- you know, have had a great light on them just because of the way we've run our offense.
Q. This isn't a normal game week, but you've been here before.  Obviously having this kind of situation, how do you keep them focused when you yourself are getting ready for a playoff game?
BOB STOOPS: Well, again, I think where they need to be focused is when we're in meetings, when we're on the field, and in those kind of situations they've been great.  We haven't had anyone late for anything.  Everybody has shown up.  We've had great practices, and what they do when they're out eating dinner, they should relax and enjoy where they're at.
You know, as young people they can only be focused so long, and that's the same way when you're at home, as well.
In the end I think they're being young adults like they do even when they're home.
Q. What have you learned from these experiences?  You've done this a couple of times.  Every time do you learn something different, take a little bit into the next trip?
BOB STOOPS: You know, sometimes just in the way you practice or the time in meetings.  As much as anything you can adjust that to some degree.  There's a fine line of too much and wearing them out and having them burned out from doing it so much, or then did you do it enough.  So there's always a little bit of a balance there, and hopefully you hit it just right.
Q. Does the Orange Bowl have any different feel because it's a playoff semifinal or is it pretty similar to your past experiences?
BOB STOOPS: You know, we were just talking about that as a staff.  It has a little bit of a different feel.  We're here a day less, and I guess there's just a sense of the anticipation that there's something else out there, which there is for all four teams, there's another game possibly, and you can't ignore that.  So in that way it is a little bit different.
Q. Do you like the system as it is or do you care either way?
BOB STOOPS: Yeah, I think it's great.  We're right in the middle of it, so this year for sure it's the way it's worked out.  But I thought even a year ago that this was pretty good because the bowl system is allowed to continue in a positive way.  I think that overall is good for student-athletes and coaches around the country, and you're still able to get the playoff feel, as well.
Q. What gave you the idea to allow Joe Mixon to talk to the media today?
BOB STOOPS: It didn't give me the idea.  I think it was mandatory as part of the playoff system.
Q. How close have you been to doing this previously, bringing him out, letting him speak and speaking his mind?
BOB STOOPS: I haven't been close to doing it, really, because it's just not necessary.  You know, he's a young guy that's continuing to mature in our program, you know, so we'll do it at some point again.
Q. Right now he's taking questions and saying, I can't talk about that, I don't have anything to say about that.  From a public relations standpoint, an image standpoint, it might not be the best thing, but what do you --
BOB STOOPS: That's because in this game that's what we're here to talk about.  We're here to talk about the game, so he's been directed to say that.
Q. Is it kind of awkward to have it happen right before the playoff game?
BOB STOOPS: Well, it had to happen.  Again, he's going to talk about the game.  I'm going to talk about the game.  So anybody else, feel free to ask about the game.
Q. In a nutshell, what's the difference between these two teams as opposed to a year ago, aside from the obvious, aside from the different quarterbacks?  Is there anything --
BOB STOOPS: Well, you can't ignore the two quarterbacks.  That's a major difference in this game.  You're not going to let me say that, I don't know what else you want.
Q. Well, the reason I said that, I thought it was pretty obvious, but I didn't want to ask the question.
BOB STOOPS: But they're the two focal points, and should be.  One is runner-up in the Heisman, or I don't remember who was second or third, and the other guy was fourth, so they're two exceptional players, and that's a big difference from a year ago when they didn't have Deshaun and we didn't have Baker, and it's different.
Q. Are there any other --
BOB STOOPS: With them comes the quarterback run game that was different from a year ago, so yes, it's -- and the way they call plays with him will be different than exactly what we saw a year ago.
Q. (Inaudible.)
BOB STOOPS: You know, in the coaching profession, I don't think you're ever thinking how many years.  I think you do the very best job you can from year to year, and circumstances in life change from time to time that you feel it's time for something different, or people you're working with can change that you feel now may not be what it was, and it's time for something different, circumstances, and you can lose too much or get NCAA violations and you end up out of a job.
So I can't say that I ever anticipated 17 years, but I did know Oklahoma was not a stepping-stone job.  It was a destiny job, destination job, and it's a job that when you do well, you stay there.
Fortunately I've had the same athletic director and president for 17 years, and that's also a major part of why we've been able to sustain the success for so long.
Q. How much did you have to learn (inaudible)?
BOB STOOPS: Oh, man, my first week there, my first month there, I've said it a bunch of times, I barely remember it.  You know, you're hiring coaches, trying to recruit.  It was such a whirlwind that it was really challenging, difficult, and I look back now, and I laugh at it because now of course after 17 years, it runs pretty smooth.
But it was -- I was chasing my tail for a good month.
Q. Were there one or two coaches (inaudible)?
BOB STOOPS: You know, I really patterned most everything after Coach Spurrier and what we were doing at Florida.  That's where I had just come from, and of course he was always supportive and gave me a lot of encouragement, of course.  In fact, a funny story, I went back there for the holidays on Christmas to see my wife and child.  They weren't out there.  I just started recruiting.  And my car dealer, Rick Rundell, up in Gainesville, picked me up at Jacksonville to take me to Gainesville, and I said to him on the way home, I said, I may have just ruined my life.  I said, what did I go and do.
Obviously I'm pretty glad I did, yeah.
Q. A couple weeks ago you had mentioned that you didn't want to spend all 15 days working on just one game plan for one game.  Have you been able to accomplish that?  Has it gone as smoothly as you wanted it to up to this point?
BOB STOOPS: It has.  We got a lot of good work against each other.
Q. Obviously after the loss, getting to this spot, was that something that you envisioned?
BOB STOOPS: Well, I didn't think it was out of the -- of course, to some degree, yeah.  We've had a lot of consistent success through the years, and remember, just ahead of it last year, we were sixth in the country and won the Sugar Bowl.  We weren't too far off there.
So sure, we expect we can be in this position.
Q. (Inaudible.)
BOB STOOPS: I never acknowledge whether I had the opportunity to or not, so in the end, again, what we were doing here at Oklahoma has just been -- has been too positive, and timing in life is everything, and sometimes timing is right, sometimes it isn't, and I've been very fortunate and blessed to be at Oklahoma the amount of time I have, and to have the success and the leadership there at the university we've had.
Q. Have you talked to Steve since he retired?
BOB STOOPS: Oh, of course.  We talk often.
Q. (Inaudible.)
BOB STOOPS: I think he'll do well.  I think his golf game will improve, and he'll get it down in the single digits again and be beating my shortly.  He always beats me, but next time we go out I'll get beat worse maybe.
Q. You guys talk every week?
BOB STOOPS: We do, yeah.
Q. What do you know about the stadium renovation project that's going on here?
BOB STOOPS: I just heard a little bit about it on the way down here today.  It sounds great.
Q. What did they tell you about it?  What did they say?
BOB STOOPS: Just that they're going to bowl it in or cover it, make it a dome, and put four big Jumbotrons in the four corners, and they said primarily because of the rain, I guess.
Q. What's your impression of the stadium?
BOB STOOPS: I love it.  I think it's a great stadium.  I think it's been awesome.  Although I was a big fan of the old Orange Bowl, as well.  In fact, our first year here in 2000, we brought the team there for the walk-through instead of here.  I always wanted to play in the old Orange Bowl, and that was the first year, I think, that they weren't playing in it, so we took our team on the day before the game for a walk-through in the old Orange Bowl.
Q. It's a shame that that got knocked down.
BOB STOOPS: Yeah, just things change.  But this has been a great stadium.
Q. (Inaudible.)
BOB STOOPS: It's fabulous.  You know, the people here do an incredible job.  All the staff of the Orange Bowl, and like I said, the hotels, Barry University where we practice, everybody is first class and great facilities.  You couldn't ask for anything more, really.
Q. I know you probably get asked this all the time, but a lot of people would love to be inside the mind of Baker Mayfield.  As a coach how would you describe his mentality and his confidence?
BOB STOOPS: Baker is just -- you know, there's true natural confidence there.  There's excitement and a true joy to playing and competing and going to practice.  You can tell he's just a guy that he's like -- he's like a kid in a candy store when he's on a football field, and he just enjoys the moment.  The moment is never too big for him, you know, but there's a true joy in the way he competes.
Q. How different is this year's team versus last year's team?  Obviously a different offense, different quarterback, but talk about that excitement.  Is there kind of a different feel around the program this year?
BOB STOOPS: Well, obviously this is a different game than a year ago, you know, and different consequences, as well, being here in the Orange Bowl for both teams having a chance to compete for the National Championship makes it different.  It's very exciting.
Q. What changed after the loss to Texas?
BOB STOOPS: Well, a lot changed.  We continued to evolve and grow as a team.  Some younger players improved, matured, and started to perform at a higher level.  As coaches we settled down on some things and improved in some ways in what we were trying to do, and I think more than anything, the players competing against each other in practices, we made each other better as we continued that, and stayed healthy.  We were able to compete against each other more.
Q. The offensive line has improved throughout the season.  What kind of challenges have they faced?
BOB STOOPS: Yeah, the offensive line made great strides through the season, and playing a true freshman at one tackle and a redshirt freshman at the other, and they did a great job, though, growing through the year.  It'll be a major challenge.  You know, the defensive front for Clemson is excellent, a lot of great players, all-conference players and All-Americans.  It'll be a major challenge, and it'll be a big part of the game.
Q. (Inaudible.)
BOB STOOPS: Yeah.
Q. What was that like?
BOB STOOPS: It was great.  Brent had that positive attitude that he always has had.  It's been a long time.  I forget how it all went, but --
Q. (Inaudible.)
BOB STOOPS: Well, we ended up finding a scholarship for him.  I was glad we did.
Q. What was it like approaching him or working with him?  Did you feel like a mentor to him at some point?
BOB STOOPS: Well, I don't know.  Again, as a player he was easy to coach.  He was smart, loved the game, really was an excellent player, and so it was always a joy to coach him, and that's why I wanted him to be a graduate assistant.  I felt he would make a great coach, and that this is really what he should be doing.  Fortunately he did.  He hung around with us, not only as a graduate assistant, then became a full-time assistant.
And then, of course, we worked with him for 13 years at Oklahoma.  Anyway, so we -- Brent is -- yeah, very close for sure, and if not like a brother, maybe like a cousin.  How's that?  I don't know how else to describe it.  But we all -- even with Mike, for a good number of years, he lived with Mike, as a GA, saving some money.  But I don't think Mike even charged him any rent.
Anyhow, he's -- you know what, it was great when he went to Clemson with Dabo.  There's a time for everything, and I know when I left Kansas State and went to Florida, it was another new experience with another really successful coach, and Brent, after 13 years, it was just time for something else, and I get that.  Anyway, he's done a great job.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT