FEDEX ORANGE BOWL: OKLAHOMA v FLORIDA STATE
January 2, 2001
Bob Stoops
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







COACH STOOPS: Good to be here again. Hard to find something new to say after so many
interviews and so many press conferences. But as a team, at this point we are extremely
confident going into the football game about our preparation, confident for the right
reasons. We have told our players yesterday, I would not trade one day of our preparation
for another, because they have gone at it a great way. They have practiced hard. They have
been focused. Our meetings have been good, and they have conducted themselves, really the
entire week, in a great way, a way that gives them a great opportunity to be successful
tomorrow night so we feel good going in. Again, very confident going in as a team, and
excited to go compete with Florida State. It's a great opportunity to be here in the
Orange Bowl, a place where Oklahoma has a fantastic history, and we recognize that and
hopefully we'll continue to build on it. 

Q. I understand you grew up in Ohio and followed Oklahoma, were you following the team
when they were in the National Championship in '80 and '81?

COACH STOOPS: Yes, but I was a little older then. I was playing at the University of
Ohio. I was not following them as closely then as I had been but as a younger person, I
loved watching them play. In light of why do young people follow teams, it's kind of like
why people followed the Bulls for so long; because they win. And they always had the
special players. I thought they had a special coach in Coach Switzer and the style, the
way he won and just a great way. And then the players. They always had the Greg Pruitts,
the Washingtons, the Steve Owens, the list just goes on and on, with the different style
of offense, the wishbone was fun to watch. So anyway, all of those are reasons why I
followed them. 

Q. You talked about this all week but can you one more time compare these quarterbacks
a little bit and talk about both of their styles? 

COACH STOOPS: I don't know how to do that. They are in different offenses, totally
different offenses, different schemes, ask to make different throws, so it is hard to
compare them. They are both -- what you do see is they are both leaders on their team.
They are both winners. You know, they are both, you know, confident, poised people as they
play, and you are not as successful as they have been if you don't have all of those
qualities. So outside of that, you say they are asked to do different things, but they
both run their offense in a great way.

Q. In your perfect world, do you crown a national title through the BCS or do you find
some way eventually to have a playoff? 

COACH STOOPS: Well, that's not for me to say. Right now, this is what we have so this
is what's going to do it. I think eventually it will keep working, if not towards a
playoff maybe everybody, a certain number of teams will play an extra game, maybe the Big
East play the ACC in a Championship Game, Pac 10 Big 10 play a Championship Game, and
along with the SEC that already plays one and the Big 12 that already plays one, maybe
play an extra game at the end of the season and then decide how the BCS sets up. So it
will keep working that way. I'm sure they will figure something out.

Q. Never before has an undefeated team been such a big underdog in a Bowl game. Do you
feel given the fact that you are ranked No. 1 and undefeated, do you feel maybe your team
is not getting the respect up to this point it deserves?

COACH STOOPS: I don't believe so. You look at the polls as well as I do. We've got
about all of the first-place votes that are out there, don't we; all but maybe three or
four? So that's pretty strong respect right there. And outside of that, I watched the
games the last week like you have, and there's been a great number of underdogs that have
won and won big. In fact, the majority of underdogs have won the Bowls. Then I look at the
big games we have had throughout the year, we've been big underdogs in many of them. I
think a ten-point underdog to Texas, a nine-point underdog to Kansas State. So if the
odds-makers were always right, we would not be sitting here. We would probably be 7-4, 8-3
right now. Instead, we are 12-0 and would not be more confident.

Q. I know you've experienced big games many times in other place, as well as here. Just
wondering what it's going to be like, a game of this magnitude with all of this at stake,
what is it going to be like for you personally at night, pretty much almost to kick off? 

COACH STOOPS: Well, like it is in all of the games I've been in, no difference. I've
been fortunate that I have been in some very big games with a lot on the line too. Me,
tonight and tomorrow will be more fun than the last week. So just get ready to play. Get
concentrated on the became. We're looking forward to it. 

Q. Curious, a lot has been made of your time at Florida and the experience that you
gathered there. How much if at all have you spoken with Coach Spurrier and what, if
anything, have you tried to get regarding Florida State from Coach Spurrier's son, the two
of you together? 

COACH STOOPS: Just competing against Florida State four years ago in a National
Championship Game, playing them four times in my time there, I have a good feel for them
as well and what we need to do to win and what it will be like playing them. So there is
not a whole lot. We run a different defense, a different offense than they do at Florida
so there is not a whole lot that Coach can help us with there, plus we know he understands
them as well. We speak quite often, Coach and I, but he's not -- he's not sitting here
trying to tell us what to do or to coach this game, outside of just wishing us luck and
encouraging us to have a good game.

Q. Can I just ask you to comment on what Chuck Long has brought to your program this
year?

COACH STOOPS: Chuck has been a perfect fit. A year ago when he entered to coach us with
the Bowl game with the other coaches when Mike Leach accepted the coaching job at Tech,
Chuck jumped in with nine years as an NFL quarterback he had run a good bit of our offense
at different points in his career. So Chuck comes in and within three days understands and
knows our offense and really, has been a great mentor to Josh as a former quarterback
relates to him well. He has helped develop his technique, his fundamentals. He has helped
him mentally to progress. Again, being a quarterback himself, being around a lot of great
coaches, the coaching position, Chuck has really brought Josh along in a great way that
way, along with being able to handle the year he's had, because Chuck went through a
similar situation, being a Heisman Trophy candidate and with all of the attention and
media attention, how to handle it, keep it all in perspective and continue to win, and
Josh has been able to do that. 

Q. Could you illustrate the difference in atmosphere between the week in Shreveport and
the week in Miami? 

COACH STOOPS: I'm not going to at all belittle Shreveport, because that experience a
year ago, the people there went out of there way to make it a great week. Our team loved
it. I did as a coach. I thought they were fabulous, the way they treated us. And the
weather there was a lot better than it was this year for them. So unfortunately for them,
they got hit with and the whole country has got hit with some bad weather. But that game
was a major factor in us being where we are today and being able to practice and get
prepared for that game, so I'll always be grateful for that experience. Now, here in
Miami, I can't say enough about the hospitality of the Orange Bowl community and the
people of Miami have been outstanding. Everywhere we have been, people have treated us in
a first-class way. They have gone out of their way to make it special, and we do
appreciate it and hopefully we -- in return as a team and as coaches, we have been
appreciative and tried to give a little bit back that way.

Q. Will that first Bowl win always have a special place in your heart, do you think?

COACH STOOPS: Sure, this one will, you can bet. 

Q. Ohio State has called a press conference at 4:00 and reports are that John Cooper
has been fired as head coach. Besides a comment on that topic, I know your thoughts are on
the big game, but considering your ties to the Ohio State, would there be any interest in
going to that school if they contacted you if they were interested?

COACH STOOPS: We're getting ready to play the National Championship Game at Oklahoma
and we're going to worry about Ohio State in -- I'm not even going to comment on that.
It's unfortunate when any coach is dismissed or asked to resign, however it happened. It's
unfortunate, because Coach Cooper has done an excellent job, Bowl team once again, and has
an excellent record there at Ohio State. But I can't speak for both programs, and, you
know, their reasons. Everyone has them, and in this profession, unfortunately, that's just
part of it. You've got to keep pushing to improve and get better, but I respect the job
that he has done there.

Q. You touched upon it earlier, there have been I think more underdogs that have won
Bowl games, in your opinion, what is the reason, the layoffs, cross-sectional games? 

COACH STOOPS: They played better. Simple. That's why you play the game. Again, if the
odds-makers determined the games, they just -- all right, this is what it is supposed to
be, nobody go to the game and the outcome would finished. You've got to go out there and
play. Often one team whether they be more prepared and that night play in a better -- you
know, in a better way, make some key plays; it's easy to happen. Again, it happens all the
time. Plus, you guys know those odds-makers, a lot of times they set traps.

Q. But it happens more in the Bowls than in the regular season. 

COACH STOOPS: Sure. 

Q. What would be the common denominator? 

COACH STOOPS: Preparation, I would guess. And they have a hard time equating one
conference to another. In other words, one conference, a team may have looked pretty
strong, but then you look at that conference, maybe those teams that were pretty good are
not all of the sudden getting Bowls and don't do so well, and you look at another
conference of teams they beat, all of the sudden they look pretty good. I know I feel
better after watching Kansas State and Nebraska the last couple of days. 

Q. When you put your head on the pillow tonight and you ask yourself, "How do I
beat Florida State," what is the answer? 

COACH STOOPS: I would like to think I had done it before tonight, but you've got to
execute. And I've said a number of times, defensively is where it starts. We've got to
start the run games first. That's where our concentration will be first, on Travis Minor.
From there you have got to tackle well, from the backers and the secondary. When they
throw the ball outside you have got to limit their short throws to that short throw,
tackle well, limit yards after catch. Take away big plays and limit them. Then get
turnovers offensively we have got to protect their front four first and force them to have
to blitz to get to us and distribute the ball, catch it when we get the opportunity and to
develop a run game. If we can do that, our run game should be a factor, it needs to be,
and take care of the football. They will turn the ball over. And that's always field
position in special teams. If you look at all of our games, special teams for us in a good
number of games this year have determined points by giving us the ball in good field
position. That's your strategy. You've got to have a plan going in. I've had a month to
think about it. 

Q. Coach Switzer really seems to be enjoying his time as a civilian here --

COACH STOOPS: He enjoyed his time as a coach, too. (Laughter)

.
Q. I know you have embraced him and the tradition the last couple of years, but have
you had any time for interaction with him during the time in Miami?

COACH STOOPS: Not a lot. He's with his family and I'm with mine. We've bumped into each
other a few times and spoken some. Plus he just got in I think two nights ago. We've had a
little time, but I enjoy every time it is, but it is fun to have him here. And he's one of
those guys -- I know he kind of looked at me funny before the Big 12 Championship Game, I
shook his hand, talked to somebody else and shook it again before I left. He said,
"I'll take all of the Sooner magic I can get." He's special and has earned his
way, and certainly is a special figure in the Orange Bowl, with all of his great games
here.

Q. You've touched on maybe a little bit of this in a previous question, but do you
believe that Florida State has as big an edge in team speed as is commonly believed and if
they at least have some edge, how do you combat it? 

COACH STOOPS: I don't know if they do or not. I've said this a lot. I've never heard us
described as slow; and again, you watch Kansas State match-up with a fast Tennessee team,
seem to run okay with them, and we seem to be fine against Kansas State and Nebraska. So
they are pretty fast, too. I believe we match up well with them. But until you get out
there in the middle of the game, we'll see. But I feel good about it going in.

Q. Bob, there was a lot said about Josh Heupel's elbow around the second Kansas State
game, how much has the month off helped him physically and is he 100%?

COACH STOOPS: He's 100%, and I feel like he was at the end of the season, as well.

Q. I guess the 12 wins that the underdogs have been able to notch in this poll season
could be attributed to preparation. Some coaches are real game experts at managing in
real-time and some excel when they have plenty of time. What category would you say you
excel at? 

COACH STOOPS: Oh, I don't know, probably haven't been a head coach long enough for me
to say whether I excel at anything. I'm sure you guys will all write about that one way or
another. So, I can't say. I feel good, obviously, in my two years as a head coach. I don't
know what we are, 5-0 or 6-0 against Top-10 teams. That's pretty decent in big games and
hopefully that will just continue. With time off or time to prepare, we had a couple weeks
for Nebraska and it seemed to help. If that has anything to do with that game, I don't
know. But anyway, hopefully I'm pretty good in National Championship games. We'll see. 

Q. Coach Bowden was talking about different legacies -- he wanted to have the first
championship and then the first undefeated team and now the first back-to-back team. Do
you think at all about legacy either for yourself or for your program?

COACH STOOPS: No, I don't. I don't look at myself in any of it. I look at it as a team,
as a group in everything we do, and as a university. I feel that I'm a small part of it,
and I don't -- I look at very little through just my own eyes, because the university and
our program is bigger than any one person. 

Q. Has there been a game in your tenure there after you could say with some confidence
that Oklahoma football is back, a pivotal game?

COACH STOOPS: After the Big 12 Championship Game. I said it all through the season,
after the Nebraska game everyone wanted to say, "Now, Coach, you can say you're
back." And I thought: "No, we've got five more games or four more games,"
whatever it was. I didn't feel -- I said I didn't believe that we had done a whole lot
yet, because to me, I believe in championships. I don't want anyone patting us on the back
and bragging about Oklahoma or bragging about what we're doing if we had not won a
Championship, and winning the Big 12 Championship is special. That's what Oklahoma for so
many years has been about, not having a great year, going 9-2, 10-1 without a
championship. At Oklahoma there were 36 Conference Championships before we added another
one, 37. To me, I recognize, and at all schools, I believe and I recognize coaches and
teams that win championships, and first and foremost in their conference, I think says a
lot. 

Q. You mentioned Josh and the year that he's had, all of the hype around him; can you
talk about how he has handled all of that? 

COACH STOOPS: He has handled it in a great way. It has never changed him. His
preparation remains the same. He is the same humble, confident person he always has been.
He enjoys the practice. He enjoys the competition and cares little about the rest of it.
That's rubbed off on our whole team. He's a team guy. That's helped promote that among our
team. If he's not going to sit here and enjoy the individual attention, none of us better.
He's been a great leader that way. 

Q. I know you said your time with Barry Switzer has been limited but is there anything
in particular you feel you've learned from him or lessons from watching him coach?

COACH STOOPS: It was always from afar. I never knew Coach Switzer, but I always watched
him on the sidelines, watched his interviews and he always came across to me as a guy that
was extremely confident and positive and I like the fact that he always enjoyed the game.
He always seemed to have fun with the competition of it all, and I think that's why his
team has played that way. Played -- loose isn't the right term -- but never played tight
and played to their potential, and I recognize that, especially in big games. You have to
give that to -- you know, part of that to the head coach, and his assistants, because they
read you, and he had a great way of winning.

Q. How much did the Sooner history make your job easier in getting this team back to
the national spotlight? This wasn't like you were rebuilding Kent State? 

COACH STOOPS: It's hard to say how much it matters or it doesn't. I know this: I like
the fact that our players, when you have a history and tradition and expectations like OU
has and the expectation that they should be, our players walk through our halls and they
walk passed the Selmon brothers, the Joe Washingtons, Billy Sims, Steve Owens, they walk
through halls and have to look at all of those guys, Brian Bosworth, Two-Time Butkis,
there are special teams that have played there. I have to walk into Barry Switzers every
day and Coach Wilkinsons is on the ball and Coach Switzer's record, and I love that. I
think our players saw that and started to embrace that you need to live up to this and if
you can't quite do it you need to come as close as you can. You need to perform to the
best of your ability, whatever that is. And that's what we sort of took the attitude,
let's be the very best that we can be. Last year the very best we could be may have been
7-5, we were still learning and growing. Our players don't hide from it anymore. They like
it. They know that it is special to play there, and that we need to perform to what's been
there in front of us. I enjoy the challenge myself to have to look at those great coaches
every day. 

Q. Can you tell us if you spoke with Steve Spurrier in the past couple weeks, if you
picked his brain about this game?

COACH STOOPS: No, there hasn't been anything difficult specifically. He knows -- again,
I've been with him a long time, been through a National Championship game with him. I
studied him very close while I was there. He knows, we've just got to go out and execute
our game plan. So he hasn't given any special insight to it, outside of, again, just
encouraging and being positive about everything.

Q. Have you had a chance to think about your dad much this week, and what are the
things, as you think back to him, that you took from him both on and off the field about
football?

COACH STOOPS: I have. I do, not just this week, always. And I don't look at my father
-- I guess being a long-time high school coach and now that all of my family is in
coaching and all that people ask me, I don't look to my dad as a coach. I don't -- you
know, he was a person, a guy that I just look to as a father, a person that taught me how
to live my life and respect and enjoy what really matters in my life, that's my family, my
friendships, my relationship with God, those type of things and that's what really matters
and that's what you hold on to and that's what makes you wealthy and successful; not a
win, not money, not anything else outside of those values. It helps you keep some peace in
the middle of all of this, because I do realize that's all that matters to me.

Q. Can you talk about the role Torrance Marshall has played? Is this one of your bigger
games and is this game well suited for him?

COACH STOOPS: It is. Torrance has come up big, not only at our big games but has played
at a great level throughout the year and made a lot of great plays. I'm sure he will be a
factor in this game. He's got good pressure to the quarterback when we have blitzed him.
When we do that this week, it will need to happen, as well. He has done a great job of
being a great tackler and run support player; and again, that's where I said our receivers
begin, being strong against the run game. Torrance and Rocky, all of our players have
really done that in a great way and he'll need to come up with some plays against the
pass, as well.

Q. Earlier today, Lee Corso said something along the lines of one team expects to win;
another team hopes to win, referring to Oklahoma hoping to win. 

COACH STOOPS: Lee has not been to one practice. Lee has not been to one locker room. He
has not been anywhere near our program. Plus, didn't he graduate from Florida State?
Oklahoma has six National Championships. Our players just played an incredible schedule
and played the Big 12 Championship Game, had the tougher road to get here, and did it in a
confident way, and expected to win in every one of those games, and that will be no
different in this game. Lee starts coming to practice or starts getting around us a little
bit or getting around our players, that might mean something, but outside of that, that's
just Florida State talk from a guy from Florida State. 

Q. I think that one thing that's very prevalent, just playing off the last question,
people don't realize how confident your team has been all year?

COACH STOOPS: Well, sure. You don't win the Big 12 Championship and go 12-0 and play
the No. 1 team in the country, number two team in the country being back-to-back along
with the No. 10 team in the country in the middle of it, and not be a confident team and
expect to win. That won't change now.

Q. That's exactly my point: Nothing changes just because you're playing a team and
you're an underdog again because you've been an underdog three other times this season?

COACH STOOPS: Sure. Those people think too much of their predictions or what they
think. We don't listen a whole lot to them. 

Q. Could you comment a little bit about Coach Mangino and what went into your decision
to offer him the coordinate the job and what he's meant? 

COACH STOOPS: It was really an easy decision when Mike Leach left to take the job at
Texas Tech, I first and foremost wanted to make sure that we do not change one thing about
our offense; that we would just continue to improve it. We had invested a year and our
players understood it. It was very successful for us. I didn't want to change and hire a
coordinator to bring in a new offense. We wanted to continue to develop the offense we
were in. Coach Mangino was a major factor in our success the year before, along with our
other offensive coaches. He's a good leader. A good motivator, very organized and detailed
and understood our offense. So it was just natural to promote him, hire Chuck Long. And
Chuck has added something, as well; as well as, again, all of our coaches contribute and
run the offense. So it made it a pretty easy decision.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT