FEDEX ORANGE BOWL: OKLAHOMA v FLORIDA STATE
December 31, 2000
Bob Stoops
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Can you talk about when you came here, it seemed like you were very conscious of the
history of Oklahoma when you came here, showing the film, knowing Coach Switzer was on the
sidelines for game. How did you approach that, embracing the history of this team?

COACH STOOPS: Some people sort of asked if that was planned or I had some grand plan to
do it. It had nothing to do with it. To me, it is just very genuine, and genuine in that I
respect our past and embrace it. I think when you have the tradition and history that we
have, that needs to be put out there. It needs to continually be recognized, and those
great players and coaches, not only just Coach Switzer, even his assistants, are welcomed
in and around our practices constantly because they have earned their way and they have
been part of building that great tradition. So it is just very natural and genuine on our
part, and we are strong enough personalities and confident people that we don't feel at
all intimidated or overshadowed by it. We feel that we're good enough at what we'll do,
we'll be able to stand on our own, too.

Q. Did you call Coach Switzer? 

COACH STOOPS: Well, I bumped into not only Coach Switzer, but some assistant coaches,
other players, and whenever I do, I always let them know: "We'd love to see you, come
by whenever you want, stop by practice, stop by the office and know that you're always
welcome there," and they realize that. I think the reason that so many are is because
they genuinely feel that it is genuine and we do want them around.

Q. Were you surprised how quickly the defense picked up the system?

COACH STOOPS: No, I wish we had picked it up a little better last year. In some of the
games we made some mental errors, really, throughout the season, that hurt us. So, we had
hoped to pick up everything a year ago, but then in reality, our players did a nice job a
year ago. Just this year was just much more consistent because of the extra time and the
extra learning, and, you know, we do run a complicated system that can take a little
while, but our players really have a handle on it now. 

Q. What was the biggest change? Decision-making out there? 

COACH STOOPS: Sure. Decision-making. Players understanding where they are supposed to
be, how they are supposed to react. Once you have a stronger feel that way, you can play
more aggressive and more confident, and that makes you a better defensive player. 

Q. Can you talk about the contribution of Jerry Schmidt?

COACH STOOPS: He has been a big factor in our success, as well. He is as good as they
come. You look at his track record, starting off in Nebraska and then to Notre Dame and
Florida, all places that he has won National Championships at; and then two years here,
we're competing for a National Championship. So he has been a big factor in our eyes, and
our players are stronger, faster and in better condition than they were two years ago when
we walked in, by a long shot.

Q. Was there a concern that they not in the best of shape when you got here?

COACH STOOPS: Was there a concern -- in our first workout, we could have had 20 guys
that could not make it through warm-up, let alone complete it. So there was a major
concern.

Q. (Inaudible)?

COACH STOOPS: Oh, we just have -- you know, everything changes, and our defense has
evolved even from what we did at Florida to a point. And offensively, there's a slight
flavor of some Florida plays here and there, but the premises and the basics of our
offense really comes from the University of Kentucky, that's our system, but we have a
little flare of Florida in some of the things we do.

Q. Anything you take from that '96 Championship? 

COACH STOOPS: If anything I would take, if I could get Jeff on Curtis back, if I could
get Mike Hilliard and Reidel Anthony back, I'd take all of them: Jacquez Green, Fred
Taylor -- I could go on and on, Peterson, the linebacker, to go with the great ones we
have. But you take a lot of how you prepare and how you went into the game, and you -- you
take, you know, you practice plans, your daily schedules. You understand the philosophy
that Florida State plays with and the schemes that they have and what you need to do to
have a chance to beat them.

Q. What is it going to take Wednesday night to be successful?

COACH STOOPS: What has to happen for us to be successful Wednesday night: Offensively,
we need to protect against their front four; and our receivers need to beat their
coverage, tight ends, receivers, backs, need to find holes. Josh needs to deliver the
ball. And if that happens, we need to be able to run the ball, as well. We have all year
and it has helped us. And then more than anything, take care of the ball. Not be foolish
and be responsible with the ball. Defensively, it all starts with Travis Minor. You must
stop him or you're in for a long day, and then from there, you've got to tackle and limit
their receivers with yards after catches and tackle well and close the ball and sort of
contain their passing game and try to eliminate big plays, and then give pressure to
Weinke.

Q. This team, are they a good challenge?

COACH STOOPS: They are an excellent team. You are not in the National Championship if
you are not a very good team, and that probably goes for us, too.

Q. Do you worry about pre-game jitters? Is there anything you say to the guys to relax?

COACH STOOPS: We just had our entire year on the line in the Big 12 Championship game,
playing the team for the second straight time in their backyard. And they are 10-1 if they
had not played us two times this year, a very good Kansas State team. So we have had it
all out there already just a few weeks ago. Our players handled it in a great way. There
was not anybody uptight. We went after it. I expect the same thing in this game. We'll go
after it. We'll be confident, but understand that we need to play well, and we'll go out
there and let it all go; you can bet on it.

Q. You say it all starts with Minor. You've seen him, obviously, since a freshman, what
kind of back is he? What are your impressions of him? How much better is he now? 

COACH STOOPS: I always thought he has been a great back. He has got tremendous speed.
He's got great vision. He catches the ball and runs with it well. He's an excellent
all-around player. 

Q. Why do you say it starts with him as far as your defense? 

COACH STOOPS: Well, because any time defense plays well, they are able to stop the
running game; or, at least, you know, strongly discourage it, take it away. When you do
that, you've got a great opportunity to win, and that's usually the case with most teams,
and I know it always is with us.

Q. Do you think they get as much credit as maybe they deserve, being able to run the
ball? You hear about Weinke and the receivers all the time -- what do you think ? 

COACH STOOPS: Well, they are going to talk about the Heisman Trophy winner. And with us
they talk about Josh, Heisman Trophy candidate, been a major part of our offense; and
Travis Minor is a major part of theirs. So we are very aware of him and respectful, as
well, of their other big-play guys. But on defense, if you cannot stop the running game,
you are in for a long game.

Q. (Inaudible)?

COACH STOOPS: Probably because people have seen Florida State in here three years now
in a row, and they have not seen us in here for the last three years. Probably a lot of
those people haven't seen us play or are not as aware of us as they are aware of Florida
State. But I believe to this point, 11 of 15 underdogs have won the games already in the
Bowl games, so those odds-makers do not always know.

Q. Do you use that as a motivational tactic for your team? 

COACH STOOPS: No. That's what I was speaking of when you're in a National Championship
for the third straight year; it's a reputation and well deserved. But again, we feel good
about the road we have taken to get here. I don't think anyone will dispute that. 

Q. Have you seen anything on film -- how they will match up with your team?

COACH STOOPS: Well, I like the way we match up with our team and we -- you know, we
feel good about our speed. We feel good about the way we can throw the ball and run the
ball. We feel good about the way we tackle and played defense all year. You know,
hopefully, that will be the case.

Q. Being 12-0, playing for the National Championship, did that seem in reach for this
team?

COACH STOOPS: Sure. You look a year ago, we had an opportunity in every game to win. We
led in every game. Just were not good enough yet to complete those games and finish them
off and win them. And we recognized coming into this year, we would be a much better team
than we were a year ago; that we ought to be able to finish these games off. We recognized
with the schedule that we were going to play the No. 10 team in the country and then the
No. 2 and No. 1 team in the country back-to-back weeks; that we have to pick up our level
of play and play to our potential. Fortunately, we did. We've never seat a time able. It's
just been to improve week-to-week, month-to-month and continue to push to be a better
team.

Q. Has your team seen a team with this much overall speed? I know you have, having been
at Florida State, but have the Sooners played a team with this much speed yet?

COACH STOOPS: I don't know, since we have not played them yet. You'll have to ask me
after.

Q. But you've seen the films and things like that?

COACH STOOPS: You can't tell on films. They are a very fast football team. One thing I
like; we've never been described as slow. You'd have to agree with that, along with the
fact that, you know, there's other teams in our league that are pretty decent. Nebraska is
not a slow team. I don't think Texas is a slow team. I don't think Kansas State is a slow
team, and we've managed to be in good shape with everybody else.

Q. Have the Florida schools since -- a few years ago shown the rest of the country that
speed is just such a difficult thing to beat that everybody else started --

COACH STOOPS: Probably not just the Florida schools; any school that was in the
National Championship. If you look at them, I can remember Washington back when they won
it had great team speed -- but I think you look at just Florida schools, but anyone who
was winning the Championship and you watched them play, you see a lot of speed.

Q. Did your experience at Florida help you at all prepare for Florida State, because
you have seen them firsthand, you personally?

COACH STOOPS: Well, to a point it does. We have a good understanding of their
philosophies, and, you know, how they like to play and what you need to do to have a
chance to beat them. It does to a point, but you still have to go out and play.

Q. How similar are Chris and Josh or different are they?

COACH STOOPS: I don't know. There's not a whole lot to compare there in that the
offenses are quite different in their style and how they play. So that makes it difficult
to compare the two.

Q. Leadership-wise, though?

COACH STOOPS: Sure. I can't speak for Chris. I am not in their huddles. I am not in
their meetings, but I am sure he's a great leader for them. All I can speak to is Josh. He
is a great leader for us. His calm, cool demeanor in all situations, and his
competitiveness stand out, and our players respond to that and follow it.

Q. (Inaudible)?

COACH STOOPS: Feels great, being this is our 17th Orange Bowl, and we're already 11-5
in this game; it's special. There's no one else close to that, and hopefully, we can make
it 12. 

Q. Can you talk about your linebackers? 

COACH STOOPS: Our linebackers have been very strong. Roger and Rocky Calmus and
Torrance Marshall together have been an excellent group. Rocky Calmus and Torrance have
gotten a lot of attention. Roger is a solid player, as well. And Torrance has played --
everyone anticipated Rocky being an exceptional player, but Torrance has played the entire
season. It has been fantastic. Rocky has been a great player for us and will be a factor
in this game.

Q. What makes Rocky so effective?

COACH STOOPS: Just has great instincts and a feel for finding the football.

Q. What about Josh Norman, can you talk about the role he has played in that offense?

COACH STOOPS: Josh has made a lot of big plays for us this year. I think being at
receiver -- and we found a place for him to isolate on and concentrate on, as opposed to
playing running back and tight end. We moved him around everywhere, and we needed to a
year ago because of lack of depth and other players ready to play. But this year,
concentrating on receiver, he has played great improvements. And what happens often is
there's a size mis-match lining up with him. He's such a big guy and physical that some
defendants have a hard time matching up with him, and he runs good routes and catches the
ball well.

Q. What do you call the play where he comes over --

COACH STOOPS: Quick. 

Q. Does the size/speed combination make him especially effective?

COACH STOOPS: It does, but Curtis Fagan has had a lot of success with that. No one has
ever described him as having size -- he's a skinny thing, but he can run. Josh is a
factor. What I like more than anything this year is he's played more physical and in a
tougher way and that's helped us.

Q. Their defense plays a style where they do not blitz a lot; they stay back. How does
that play against your offense?

COACH STOOPS: Well, they are not the only ones to have done that; so a lot of teams do
that. We'll see. Just depends, again, if we can handle their front four and if we can beat
some coverage and get the ball to people, then we'll have a chance to move the ball. 

Q. Are you happy with the way your team has handled this with the media attention and
all of that?

COACH STOOPS: Our players have handled it in a great way. We have had excellent
practices. Our meetings have been good. Everybody has been on time. Everything has been
smooth. What I like is our players, their demeanor is not -- nothing -- what I like is
they realize this may be all well and good, but this isn't it. We need to win the football
game, and I've sensed that and that's what you like. There isn't any of that, "Hey,
we're just happy to be here" stuff. We want to win the game, and I can tell the way
our players have acted that's definitely their attitude.

Q. A lot of interest in Steve Spurrier, Junior, but away from football, away from being
a coach, what similarities do you see? 

COACH STOOPS: Well, extremely positive and upbeat every day he walks in the office,
you'd thought he just won the lottery and he's excited about the day, ready to go to work.
He's an excellent coach. He's very good with relating and directing players. He has a
great way of communicating with them and motivating them.

Q. Same kind of sense of humor?

COACH STOOPS: Exactly. Like I said, positive, upbeat. Like I said, everything --
everything is good. Regardless of the situation, everything is okay, let's keep going.
Young Steve has been a big factor in our success in developing those receivers that
everybody said when we walked in we didn't have any. Now everyone says we have too many.

Q. When you look at how quickly this program has turned around, do you think it could
possibly give other schools false hope that the same thing could happen there? Is there
any danger of people thinking any time we hire a coach, two years, why are we not here,
why are we not playing in the Orange Bowl?

COACH STOOPS: There's danger in us next year, too. I mean, someone asked me that
yesterday: "What if you don't go 12-0 next year?" I said, "I'll be as mad
as the fans are." What are you going to do? Sure, those expectations are out there.
There's no sense in telling people not to have them. The only thing we talked about when
we took over is we wanted everyone to increase them and expect more. So sometimes you've
got to be careful what you ask for.

Q. In terms of head coaching future, what kind of potential do you see in Steve
Spurrier?

COACH STOOPS: I don't think there's any question in time he will be a great head coach.
He's got all of the leadership qualities you need and got a great mind, for the strategies
and for the game, and a great way of leading his players. So I'm sure that will happen in
time for him.

Q. Can you talk about the baby watch plan that he's on right now?

COACH STOOPS: He's on a tight watch, but Melissa seems to be doing well from all of
Steve's reports. In fact, she was -- we were on the bus trying to find out the Dolphins
game, and we couldn't get it on the bus yesterday in the last minute. So Steve was on the
phone to the hospital with her and she was giving us the play-by-play. So she's doing
well, and we continually pray that -- buy another week or two to help the baby's
development.

Q. She has a Phil Mickelson like plan -- he can go even if that happens on game night?

COACH STOOPS: If Steve needs to go, we put him on a plane and get him back as fast as
we can get him.

Q. Coach Bowden says he see a lot of similarities between you and he. Do you see the
same similarities coaching?

COACH STOOPS: Well, I don't know. I haven't -- it's hard for me to say. I guess if he's
speaking about developing their program when he first started -- I'm not sure how he was
relating. 

Q. As a motivator, dealing with the players and relating to them?

COACH STOOPS: I guess. Again, I'm not in his meetings. I'm not with his team when he's
doing all of that, so it's hard for me to say. But, you know, he seems to me -- I'll take
that as a compliment and I appreciate the comment because he's had a great way of winning
and motivating his team from year to year and establishing consistency in their level of
play, which I greatly respect.

Q. Can you see yourself -- let's say you are coaching at the age of 71. Will you be
able to relate to young players like he does? 

COACH STOOPS: I would hope so. And that's certainly one of Coach Bowden's , I'm sure,
great attributes is he's been able to continually change with the time and relate to his
players and motivate them still, and keep a staff together for such a long time, as well.
Hopefully, I could, but I've got to be honest, I hope I'm not coaching at 71, but I love
the fact that he is. And who knows, I may change soon. I'm sure that's what happened to
Coach. He enjoys it and enjoys every day and is still extremely successful. So why not
continue? He's in great health.

Q. On game day, do you do a lot of hands-on coaching or do you delegate that to your
assistants?

COACH STOOPS: I delegate a great deal to my assistants. I am aware and very aware of
everything that's happening. But certainly, they have got flexibility to do what they feel
necessary, but I'm constantly listening and paying attention to what they are doing. 

Q. Rocky Calmus, can you describe him as a player and what he brings to the team? 

COACH STOOPS: Well, he's a very instinctive, competitive player. He has a great knack
for making big plays. He's always been a great leader for us in the way that he works.

Q. What do you see as the key against Florida State? You've played so many big games
this year, and, obviously, they are in the National Championship Game, but you've played
several big games before this, as well. Maybe some keys similar to those games?

COACH STOOPS: Sure. We've got to defensively stop the run game. It all starts with
Travis Minor first, and from there, we've got to be able to tackle well and limit yards
after the catch and try and take away big plays to the receivers and create turnovers.
Offensively, we need to protect and get the ball out, beat some coverage and continually
work the run game, and then get field position through special teams.

Q. Can you talk about Weinke and what impresses you about him?

COACH STOOPS: Well, he's extremely accurate, strong arms. Makes good decisions. He does
all of the things you look for in a great quarterback, and you see him getting them in and
out of the right and wrong plays. 

Q. As far as you've come with this program, is it all ironic that it has now come down
to you and Florida State for another big game?

COACH STOOPS: What is ironic is I have always as a player and coach wanted to be in the
Orange Bowl, play in the Orange Bowl, compete in the Orange Bowl. Got my opportunity in
'98 when Florida was coming down here to play Syracuse in the Orange Bowl, and then I go
and get the head coaching job at Oklahoma. So that threw that all off. I'm not playing --
so I had to go recruit; and being hired in December, I could not hang around and still do
the game. And then it is ironic, here we are, two years later, back in the National
Championship Game here and competing against Florida State. 

Q. Often in a game like this, you meet a team that you have not seen before. How much
will you rely on your past experience against them? 

COACH STOOPS: Oh, to a point. I have a familiarity with them, an idea of their
philosophies and what they like to do and how they like to approach their game plan; and
also, it helps you to a point, but the players still decide the game.

Q. Is it safe to say that maybe Bobby knows a little better how his team will perform
based on the fact that he has been here so many times and has so many seniors, and with
you, it is harder to predict?

COACH STOOPS: I don't think so. You're different game-to-game, year-to-year and he has
a different team than he did a year ago. You know, I like the fact that I've seen our team
in four big games, major games this year. I like the fact that I've seen our team have the
entire season on the line just three weeks ago in the Big 12 Championship Game, and our
players handled it and competed well. So this is not a whole lot different.

Q. Steve Spurrier, obviously, has plenty on his mind, but has he offered any advice?

COACH STOOPS: No. We've spoken quite a few times, but, you know, Coach, he has some
ideas. He's not much on telling you a whole lot. He knows we'll have our own game plan of
what we need to do, but he's been encouraging and feels good about it. 

Q. Could you honestly have expected this, to be sitting here for that?

COACH STOOPS: I never bothered to speculate on any given number of wins or not, but we
just want to continually push to be stronger and improve as a team from week-to-week,
month-to-month, and it's just happened in a -- you know, in a quick way. I would have
liked it to happen last year but it didn't. So you just keep working and pushing to get to
this point, and now we need to finish it.

Q. This game is special for some of the four-year guys. Seth Littrell, for a small guy,
he does an amazing job?

COACH STOOPS: Seth does a lot for us. Really, great pass protector, very tough player
blocking and protecting the run game. He's a much better running back than people realize.
Carries the ball well when he has his hands on it. On top of that, he's a dual captain for
us: Special teams captain on top of being an offensive captain. So he's been a great
leader and a great player for us.

Q. Can you talk a little bit about the job that Mark has done with the offensive this
year?

COACH STOOPS: Coach Mangino has done an outstanding job leading our offense and
continuing to develop our offense. You know, I think obviously, it's a big -- well,
everybody said there's no way they will be able to continue and be a good team now that
their offensive coordinator left, and he certainly has proved that not to be the case. And
what I like is he has continually improved our offense. I like the fact that we are a
better running team this year than we were a year ago, and that's helped us be more
consistent as an offense, and it has helped us win more games. There's no reason you
cannot throw the ball well and run it well and win that way.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT