WIMBLEDON
June 28, 2000
Paul Goldstein
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MODERATOR: Good evening, everyone. Mr. Goldstein. 

Q. Jeff said that you called the trainer twice before your own serve at 10-All in the
fifth. He said, He can call it before his own serve, can't he? Then he said, He can call
it before his own serve, that's why they changed the rule. That was his contention, why he
didn't shake your hand. Any comment?

PAUL GOLDSTEIN: I, first of all, called the trainer once at 10-9 in the fifth, whatever
the change of ends was. The next change of ends, it's standard for the trainer to stay out
there on the court and treat the player. All I can say is we're battling for - how long
was the match? 

Q. Four hours. 

PAUL GOLDSTEIN: We're in the fourth hour of the match. The last thing on my mind is
trying to do anything in any way unethical or unsportsmanlike, trying to get an unfair
advantage. That's why the trainers are there. The previous serve, when I went down on the
serve, my left thigh started cramping. It was just my first instinct to call the trainer.
Not a thought in my mind was trying to get any unfair advantage over Jeff. All I can say
is that it's been 25, 30 minutes, however long it's been. I haven't talked to a player in
the locker room, a staff member in the ATP, any one of the trainers who feel like I did
anything unethical or unsportsmanlike. I feel like it's definitely an unfortunate
situation, but I feel like I just went out there, played tennis, put my head down after
every point and just battled. In no way, shape, or form did I do anything to try to gain
an unfair advantage.

Q. What did he say to you at the end?

PAUL GOLDSTEIN: I said, "You don't want to shake my hand?" I was a little
startled to be honest. He said, "Why don't you call the trainer on your serve?"
That's all. "Why didn't you call the trainer on your serve?" 

Q. Has that ever happened to you before?

PAUL GOLDSTEIN: Never happened.

Q. "Why did you call the trainer," is that what he asked?

PAUL GOLDSTEIN: "Why don't you call the trainer on your serve, before you
serve?" 

Q. Jeff is a talkative guy during his matches. Did you two have any conversations?

PAUL GOLDSTEIN: Not a word was exchanged between Jeff and I.

Q. No nasty glares or anything like that?

PAUL GOLDSTEIN: I didn't feel like that. I felt like it was just a battle. He may feel
like it. I don't know. I was just out there. In the fourth or fifth set, I don't think
there was one even fist pump or chant of, "Yeah." I might have done one in the
fourth set on a really good shot, but not anything. There was very little emotion, I
thought, during the course of the entire match. Many of you perhaps saw the match, I think
would attest to that as well. I was frankly really surprised, because we finished the
match, even during the changeover, the next three games, he didn't say a word. I was
surprised. I had no idea what his problem was. 

Q. Do the circumstances kind of mar a good match?

PAUL GOLDSTEIN: It does a little. I'd be lying if I said it didn't. Again, with the
reinforcement that I've gotten, I feel really comfortable in the way I handled everything,
and I don't feel like I did anything unethical. It does unfortunately mar it a little bit.
In retrospect, I try to think about it and keep it in perspective. We went out there,
second round of Wimbledon, battled for four and a half hours, however long it was, 12-10
in the fifth. I was pleased with the way I competed. I was pleased with the way I served,
especially in the fifth set. To end like that is really unfortunate. To have that kind of
hate - I don't know, maybe "hate" is too strong a word - but anger, bums me out
a little bit. I certainly would like -- would have preferred it if we would have, you
know, shook hands and said, "Gee, that was a battle. Let's have a beer tonight. It's
on me." That's the way I would have preferred it.

Q. Afterwards, when asked whether gamesmanship was involved, whether you had done it in
the past, Jeff said, "Well, his teammate Scott Humphries screwed me at the Lipton, so
maybe it's just the way of the world." I know it's tough to answer. 

PAUL GOLDSTEIN: What do you want me to say to that? I feel like if you ask any one of
the players in the locker room, they'll feel like I'm one of the fairest, as a person,
respected people out there. I think if I had no conscience whatsoever, I would have said,
"I don't give a hoot what Jeff thinks. I'm just pleased I'm in the third round of
Wimbledon." It did mar it a little bit. Again, I don't think I did anything wrong or
unethical, nothing to gain an unfair advantage whatsoever. Everything was in the rules. I
was concerned about it. I asked the ATP staff, "Did I do anything outside the rules,
anything unethical?" Not a person said there was even a remote possibility, nothing.
What happened with him and Scott, I have no idea.

Q. What do you think about a guy who won't shake your hand after a match like that?

PAUL GOLDSTEIN: It's a little tough. I mean, certainly we're in the heat of the moment
there. We've been battling for four hours, as I said. I can understand disappointment. I
can understand somewhat anger. I don't know what he's going to say now having cooled off
and having gotten a chance to think about it, whether he's going to continue to say I
purposely screwed him. Perhaps he will. Certainly everyone is entitled to their
prerogative and opinion.

Q. Considering his wildman reputation, especially here, are you really all that
surprised?

PAUL GOLDSTEIN: You're talking to someone who has been on tour not even really for two
years now. I wasn't around when that last thing happened. Certainly there are guys who are
in the locker room saying, "Don't worry about it. That's kind of, you know, whatever,
Jeff being Jeff." I don't feel that way. I don't know Jeff well enough to feel like
I've seen anything like this. I feel like I'm just still relatively new out there. Haven't
seen anything like it before. We haven't even played a lot of the same tournaments. In the
past, the interaction we've had has been positive. I'm not saying I'm surprised or not
surprised because of him when I don't have that sort of a foundation of a person.

Q. What did he say to you in the locker room afterwards?

PAUL GOLDSTEIN: Haven't spoken with him.

Q. I was wondering, that first match point ?

PAUL GOLDSTEIN: What happened? The ball was in. It was a good call by Gerry, the chair
umpire.

Q. You run toward the net, raise your hands. 

PAUL GOLDSTEIN: He overruled it really quickly. I was a little startled, everything was
happening. 

Q. How do you get back in after that?

PAUL GOLDSTEIN: Again, it was a good call by Gerry. I have no problem with that. I
don't think I argued it even for a second.

Q. How do you get mentally back in after that?

PAUL GOLDSTEIN: I don't even -- I don't know. I felt like throughout the whole thing,
as I've said, I thought it was a relatively short-on-emotion match. I didn't let myself
get too high when I felt like I almost won the match. It wasn't too difficult to hunker
down and focus on the next point.

Q. When you were at Stanford University, having a beer on University Avenue, were there
any Jeff Tarango stories handed down from generation to generation?

PAUL GOLDSTEIN: It's a fair question, but no, not many at all.

Q. You can be candid here. 

PAUL GOLDSTEIN: It's a good question. I can think of some stories of some other people
that had been through the program. The guy is such a great player. Everybody respects him
so much as a player. He deserves that. I certainly do.

Q. Did he ever come back during the alumni days at all?

PAUL GOLDSTEIN: Never saw him at Stanford.

Q. Until you got on tour?

PAUL GOLDSTEIN: No. 

Q. What was your interaction in days past? Pretty friendly? What sort of things
happened?

PAUL GOLDSTEIN: He's not someone who I traditionally go out and have dinner with. Never
had dinner. It's been very minimal, to be honest with you in the past. This week, in fact,
I don't think I've seen him at all. I think yesterday is the first time I saw him after he
had won. Just walked by each other, "Hey, Jeff, how you doing?" Likewise to me.
There's no history between Goldstein and Tarango. 

Q. Is he breaking any kind of unwritten Stanford code that you do not accuse --?

PAUL GOLDSTEIN: Stanford code? 

Q. -- Basically that you don't accuse another alumni?

PAUL GOLDSTEIN: It's family. Certainly is family.

Q. Is he part of that family to you?

PAUL GOLDSTEIN: To me, he isn't just because he hasn't been one of the guys - and again
partly because we played a lot of different tournaments, we haven't had too much
interaction. But I think he has a base in Europe. I think he plays a lot of European
events. I'm mostly in the States. He hasn't been like a John Stark, Alex O'Brien, help me
out, help me feel comfortable on the tour. I harbor no ill will towards him because of
that. The guy is a professional and he's doing what he needs to do. Again, no ill will in
the past for that.

Q. Does it surprise you at all that coming out of the Stanford program where Gould is
known so much for his straightforward approach, that so many players are fairly
hot-headed?

PAUL GOLDSTEIN: I would say it's inconsistent with the way Gould runs the program,
definitely.

Q. All those break points in the fifth - sorry to ask you about the match - but all of
breakpoints?

PAUL GOLDSTEIN: I thought I was playing good deuce points. I had some good return
winners. There was a lot during the match where he would get the advantage, when he backed
me up. I mean, I scrambled pretty well, won a lot of points scrambling. It was clear when
he was able to back me up. I think that was his strategy, a one-two, deep hard ball, flat,
right at me, not giving me a chance to use some angles. If I didn't hold my ground and
push it back deep, I'd back up, give him a short ball, he's all over me. When you're at
match point, you want to win, it's harder to execute. That's what I did. I felt like I
even -- he had some great serves when he was down breakpoint. I made a couple returns, was
in the point. The shoulders don't relax (indicating), "Please give me this
point," instead of doing what you got to do to execute the point.

Q. All the breakpoints against you. 

PAUL GOLDSTEIN: I faced a bunch. Like I said, I got broken like at 3-1 in the fifth,
and not the rest of the match. For me, that's a pretty big-time accomplishment, for me to
hold out a returner the quality that Jeff is. For me to hold out and serve, I was pleased
with the way I served, came out with some nice serves, down breakpoints. Again, I thought
it was because I was able to keep my composure throughout the match. 

Q. How are you feeling physically?

PAUL GOLDSTEIN: I'm not great really. Still cramping. Icing down. Nauseous. But what
can you do? 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT