US OPEN
September 3, 1998
Paul Goldstein
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Was it frustrating last night with the rain?

PAUL GOLDSTEIN:   Frustrating in the sense that I never had an opportunity to play a night match at the Open.  I always thought if you are going to play Pete Sampras, it might as well be at a night match at the Open, the most electric environment out there.


Q.  Was there a point in the match where you started to let yourself think, Oh, my God I can beat this guy.  I can beat this guy?

PAUL GOLDSTEIN:   Not too much, and I am a glad about that because when you start doing that and you start thinking about winning as opposed to executing the points -- if you start thinking about winning, you are hoping basically, and you are playing not to lose, so I really didn't do that so much.  There were a few points that I played a little too -- when it was a little bit tight.  Didn't know what to expect -- I was surprised. I thought I dealt with it well and maintained my competitive edge fairly well, didn't let the emotions or the situation really have an adverse affect on me.


Q.  What about that tie breaker in the first set, was that an emotional thing?

PAUL GOLDSTEIN:   A little bit.  I think I played somewhat tentative points there to get down 5-0.  At the beginning of the tie breaker, 6-6, maybe was a little too emotional and not thinking about executing as much as I should have.  After that point in the match, and at that point, he got up pretty quickly on me.  I was pretty consistent throughout the first set.  But I mean he was an unbelievable champion.  I had a great experience, learned quite a lot.


Q.  You went up there against the best player of all time, what was the most surprising thing for you, the one thing that was most surprising?

PAUL GOLDSTEIN:   I think that I was real competitive there in the beginning.  I didn't know what to expect going out there.  Part of me knew I should feel I should win.  Part of me wanted to keep it competitive for the fans.  Part of me wanted to keep him there at least an hour.  I felt once I got out there and  played to win there were a few points here and there that I had to play a little bit tentatively.  That's going to happen no matter who you are playing.  I really was pleased with my competitive efforts.


Q.  Did you ever feel intimidated by his monster serve?

PAUL GOLDSTEIN:   From a tennis standpoint I won't say it was the most surprising thing. I seen the man play on television, he's got the best serve in the world.  It wasn't surprising that it was such an effective serve.  It was certainly overwhelming.


Q.  On the other hand, you won a lot of your games 40-Love, what were you doing?

PAUL GOLDSTEIN:   I was pleased with the way I made -- the way the points were going, especially on my service game.  I felt I was dictating the points quite often.  Not overpowering him, but not letting him get too much in a groove.  The points were going the way I wanted the points to go or the way the points need to go for me.  First set I didn't lose serve, I had one opportunity to break, which would have been nice.  The second set, tweaked out set.  The same game I lost serve, I think he made an adjustment.  At third set.  You can take it to me.  He gave me some short balls probably not intentionally that I need to be able to pounce on and end the point with to keep guys honest.  I hit the right shots, I felt I just didn't execute the points that well at all.  That gave him the break there in the third.  From that point on, I thought his serve was pretty out of this world.


Q.  He's won a lot of titles on that court over there, and he's very, very popular, yet you seem to be the crowd's favorite at one point, you can hear people yelling, "Never know what could happened kid."  How was that?

PAUL GOLDSTEIN:   I am still a rookie.  It is a lot of fun.  If there is one place to play Pete Sampras, it is in New York where the underdog is looked upon favorably.  The crowd made it outstanding.  I hope they had a lot of fun watching the match and that they'll keep coming out and supporting continue us.  I thought they did a great job, they were loud and appreciative of all good points, but did it very respectfully.  Again, I hope the crowd had a good time, because that's what the players are here for.  If I could be a small part of that, it is a pleasure.


Q.  Did you have a good time?

PAUL GOLDSTEIN:   I had a good time, it could have gone a tiny bit better but -- I had a great time and learned a lot.


Q.  You have a doubles match coming up?

PAUL GOLDSTEIN:    Is that right? 


Q.  I think it's scheduled for tonight?

PAUL GOLDSTEIN:   It's to be arranged for tonight.


Q.  Are you ready to play dubs?

PAUL GOLDSTEIN:   Not right this second, but if I need to go out on the court, I'll get myself focused and ready.


Q.  Can you be satisfied; is this a pretty satisfying tournament?

PAUL GOLDSTEIN:   Overall, in retrospect, yes.  Any time an athlete loses, it is a disappointment, but I was pleased with the way I competed.  I definitely feel disappointed in losing.  I really don't like that word satisfied -- in the pure sense of the word, no, I'm not satisfied.  But I'm pleased with my efforts for the week.  Hopefully, it's not over, I got a good doubles partner.


Q.  How would you feel if they asked you to play Davis Cup?

PAUL GOLDSTEIN:   I would be honored.  There is a lot of good Americans out there and I would love to see some of the more accomplished guys get out there and play.  If they asked me to be a part of the team it would be an incredible experience. It would be an unbelievable experience.  I don't care what the situation is.  It would be awesome.  It would be tough to go in there and actually have to play out there the first time.  Getting the feeling of what it is like and give it a go.  I still have a lot of developing to do.  Hopefully one day.


Q.  Taylor turned pro.  Do you feel good about at staying all the years you did at Stamford?

PAUL GOLDSTEIN:   I feel very good about staying the four years at Stamford.  It is a real good question, it is one that could be debated for a long time.  Personally, I had an unbelievable experience at Stamford.  If I had gone pro at an earlier age, there would most probably be a better tennis player sitting in front of you today.  The experiences I got in the class room and social life -- I don't question what Taylor or the twins  -- Mike and Bob are doing at all.  But for me, personally, I am very pleased I stayed my four years.  I think I'm better -- more prepared now to handle the rigors of the tour from an emotional standpoint.  Like I said, from a technical standpoint, I still have a lot to learn.


Q.  Did you graduate, Paul?

PAUL GOLDSTEIN:   I did.


Q.  On the whole, what do you think the upcoming class of young American men have to do to really reach the elite level; is it a power problem or what are the one or two things?

PAUL GOLDSTEIN:   If power is a problem, then I'm in  trouble.  I think one thing that would help is to see a Jan Michael really push through like he did on Indian Wells or seeing Mike or Bob Bryan to get to the round 16 or quarters in the Grand Slam.  If we could practice or support each other or see each other doing well, I think it will make a difference in both of us.  Jan Michael is doing real well -- Mike and Bob. I know Pete won the US Open for the first time at 19, and hopefully, Jan Michael could maybe pull it off.  Maybe we're not prepared to do it at this point, but I don't think it's out of the question for some of those young guys to step up and start being really competitive.  I would love it if the veterans like Pete and Todd Martin, guys that have a lot of -- for those guys just to support us a little bit to get together for practice session. For me something that helps me the most is just playing a little bit. You get to play a little at the professional levels sometimes satellites, Challengers.  I'm not comfortable playing at the highest level.  Certainly today I didn't know what to expect.  I'm not too comfortable at competing, the comfort level is an important factor.  The Spaniards, have a lot of guys in the Top 10 now, just sort of feeding off each other a little bit.  I think it is a possibility for us. Those guys are not done by any means, so Pete and Todd, hopefully we can learn a little from them and carry the torch so to speak.


Q.  (Inaudible.)

PAUL GOLDSTEIN:   I haven't really thought about that.  I don't know, I still think I am relatively unknown.


Q.  That was then and this is now?

PAUL GOLDSTEIN:   We'll see.


Q.  A lot of really good players have gone their whole career and never really played the top player in the world on center court are you a changed man now?

PAUL GOLDSTEIN:   I definitely will appreciate the opportunity as time goes on.  I will appreciate it even more from a professional standpoint.  At this this point, what I want to do is instead of just getting too sensitive about it, just use it as a learning experience and as a spring board.  Certainly it was a privilege to be out there.  The crowd made it special.


Q.  Which of all the matches were you most nervous -- out of all of them?

PAUL GOLDSTEIN:   I think this year at finals NCAA, you play doubles first, singles second.  We played Georgia at Georgia, 6,000 fans there.  6,000 fans in an intimate stadium at Athens, Georgia.  I was getting ready to serve the first point.  I was  getting ready to serve and before I'm sitting there bouncing the ball 45 seconds to a minute, 6,000 fans were just barking.  I don't think my arm got to my nipple at that first serve.


Q.  Along those lines, Florida graduate, Lisa Raymond mercilessly put down the fans at Stamford University.  She says basically they were a bunch of yuppie wimps.

PAUL GOLDSTEIN:   Jesus, yuppie wimps.  I thing my fraternity brothers would have something to say about that.


Q.  They were pretty active --

PAUL GOLDSTEIN:   For sure they were.  I don't think they were pretty yuppie at all.


Q.  Didn't they cost Walters a point?

PAUL GOLDSTEIN:   I would take exception to that.  I haven't been to too many women's matches.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT