BCS NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP GAME: AUBURN v OREGON
January 6, 2011
D.J. Davis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		   D.J. DAVIS: The one thing I get, probably just seeing the effect it has on people, just knowing that -- how they look up to me as far as a football player and a person.
 Just me, I just go out there and try to help people as best as I can. And the stuff they have to say about me, I have to look at that as the best satisfaction.

 Q. Auburn's secondary has been called into question throughout the season. What do you see in them looking at game film? 
 D.J. DAVIS: Looking at them, I see a real athletic group of players. They make plays at times. Sometimes they have breakdowns in coverage, which everybody does. 
 But like I said before, they have a lot of time to prepare for this game, just like we have. They can tighten some things up and show us different looks we haven't seen before. 

 Q. Do you notice a difference in preparation between last year's Bowl prep and this year?
 D.J. DAVIS: Pretty much. I think everybody is a lot more loose. Everybody is still having fun just like we have been doing all year.
 The music is blasting at practice. Everybody is playing. Everybody is dancing. But when it is time for stretching, everybody gets ready to go to work. And those 15, 16 pairs we have in practice, everybody is focusing. And after practice, everybody relaxes and goes back to being in that playing mode.

 Q. How about the mood, how would you equate the mood this year versus the mood going into last year's Bowl game? 
 D.J. DAVIS: I would say it is about pretty much the same. But, like I said, the players and coaches are what's making the difference now. 
 Everybody is pretty much a lot more focused. Everybody is wearing the same attire when we go places and just being a team, is what we are supposed to be doing.

 Q. What's your favorite song on the play list this week? 
 D.J. DAVIS: My favorite song, I have no clue right now. I'm blanking on everything. I'm sorry.

 Q. How did they find you in Colorado? Who else did you look at through your recruiting? 
 D.J. DAVIS: Through recruiting, basically boiling it down to the Pac-10 schools: UCLA, Cal, Washington, Oregon. I don't know how they found me. I guess the diamond in the rough, you could say, pretty much.
 The coach that recruited me is no longer here, but it was Coach Gray who was here a couple years ago, the D line coach. Basically he came out and talked to me a little bit. When I took my trip to Oregon, I liked everything about it.

 Q. Oregon at that point had not won a bunch of Pac-10 titles, winning an national championship wasn't necessarily in the front of your mind. What about them put them over the top? 
 D.J. DAVIS: I would say when I came out there to Eugene, it was kind of basically the atmosphere they had, the fan atmosphere. Everybody loves their Ducks out there. 
 They sold out I don't know how many games it is now, 70 or 80 straight games. And just the love they get around there is just outstanding and not comparable to anywhere else.

 Q. Can you talk about the receivers' responsibility to keep the pressure off your quarterback and run your routes crisp, make sure Fairley doesn't get to him or somebody else doesn't get to him?
 D.J. DAVIS: I think the O line will do a real good job in picking up protection. They have been doing a good job of protection these last couple weeks of practice.
 For the receivers, we have to do what we have done all year. When the ball comes to us, catch it. We also have to do a good job of blocking on the perimeter when we get the ball to LaMichael and Kenjon.

 Q. So much is put out here on speed and the SEC and the fast pace that you guys run. Are you anxious to see which team is going to have a step on them Monday night?
 D.J. DAVIS: Yes, I am anxious to see what will happen. You hear all this talk.
 I try not to watch any sports shows or anything like that to knock out the middleman as far as people trying to sway your bias and things like that. 
 I'm real excited. Everybody talks about who is the best conference and things like that. Hopefully this game can decide that for future arguments.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT