AIG WOMEN'S OPEN
August 21, 2020
Lindsay Weaver
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  Q. The Scottish weather, it's tough for all the players.  How have you found it through the opening couple of days?  You've put yourself in a wonderful position on the leaderboard?
 LINDSAY WEAVER:   Yeah, everyone has to play in the same conditions.  You know going into it, you kind of mentally prepare that it's going to be windy and it's going to rain, especially today.  It's playing very difficult.  So it's just about taking it one shot at a time and trying to stay as positive as you can.
 Q. We've seen on the coverage, you're flying solo this week, pushing your own trolley, no caddie, no little support system for you.  Tell us about the decision process as to why that came about this week.
 LINDSAY WEAVER:   Well, I mean, I feel like it's kind of back to the basics.  This is how junior golf was.  This is how college golf was and on the Symetra Tour when I played there for a year.  I mean, it's still just golf.  Like I'm still making the final decision at the end of the day.
 So not much has really changed.  I would just do locals in previous years.  So it was still me making the final decision as it was.  It's not really too different.
 Q. You had a little incident yesterday out on the course.  Did one of the guys have to help you out?
 LINDSAY WEAVER:   Yes, he did.  I was in one bunker and my push cart flew into another bunker and toppled over and I'm still trying to get a lot of the sand out of my bag.
 Q. At that point were you thinking, might like a caddie by your side?
 LINDSAY WEAVER:   More so just a break on my card, but a functioning break, because I have breaks but they don't work very well because my cart is more than a decade old.
 Q. A year ago, you were in quite a tough spot and you had a bit of a close talk, if I can say that, from your Mum, so you have a lot to be thankful for your Mum for being in this position right now because she kind of gave you the impetus for you to keep going and playing your trade out here?
 LINDSAY WEAVER:   Yeah, last year was tough to say the least.  But yeah, it's always nice to have a good support system, between her and my fiancé at home, it's nice to be back out here and to feel their support behind me.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT