AIG WOMEN'S OPEN
August 20, 2020
Lindsay Weaver
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. An even par day, and the push-cart made its way to Scotland.  Take us through your day today?
LINDSAY WEAVER:   I was just trying to really hang in there on the front nine because all those holes are into the wind and so I knew if I could just make it through the front nine and not make too many mistakes, if I could just make it to the back, all those holes are pretty much downwind with the exception of No. 12.  So I just tried to hang in there on the front nine which I did.  I was 2-over, which wasn't fabulous, by any means but still decent.
Then I made two birdies on 16, 17 coming in.  So yeah, it's good.
Q. I heard also you just talked about the push-cart took a tumble on 14.  What happened?
LINDSAY WEAVER:   Well, I was in the bunker, unfortunately, and so I had to chip out sideways.  My push cart was -- my push cart is back here and all of a sudden it's in a different bunker.  Yeah, that's like my worst nightmare come through.  She's okay.  Just had to dust off a lot of sand.   It's all right.
Q. For the past couple weeks you've been out there by yourself without a caddie.  How different that it's a major championship?
LINDSAY WEAVER:   I mean, I don't really feel that much different.  It's kind of just like any other week.  That's kind of how I just look at it.  I haven't played in -- I've never played this event before, so it's just cool to be here and I think it's just cool to embrace Scotland and all of its glory like today with it being very windy and there are some spouts of rain out there, too.  So it's just cool to be here.
Q. You were out there last week at the Ladies Scottish Open as well.  How much was that training for links golf this week?
LINDSAY WEAVER:   Yeah, that course, Renaissance is tough.  I've always thought that and I played the year before when we had the really bad weather and I got the really bad wave.  That's Scotland weather for sure, as well.  So I think that also kind of prepared me for what to expect today.  I don't think it was as bad.  Renaissance Club is very firm, very undulated with the greens.  It's not so much like that here.  It is still firm but the greens were a little bit softer but it's just about hitting greens and taking your medicine where you have to and playing conservatively and be able to be aggressive on some shots and knowing the difference.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT