NCAA MEN'S 1ST AND 2ND ROUNDS: BROOKLYN
March 17, 2016
Jaysean Paige
Devin Williams
Jonathan Holton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Jaysean, I was just wondering, I know this is kind of your territory around here, can you talk about what it means to be playing here in this area?
JAYSEAN PAIGE: My second time playing here, you know it means a lot.  To see the hard work play off and getting to play in front of my family and friends just speaks for itself.
Q. Just give us your scouting report on Stephen F. Austin.  What do you see out of them?  What causes problems?  What do you have to do well?
JAYSEAN PAIGE: You know, just a well coached group.  They pass the ball well, run good offense.  So we've just got to be aware and just do what we do.
DEVIN WILLIAMS: Same thing.  Well coached group.  A group that shouldn't be taken lightly, but for the most part, if we go out there and just do what we're supposed to do and follow the game plan, we should be okay.
JONATHAN HOLTON: Well coached group, just like they said, and we've got to run them off to the three-point line, got to not turn the ball over and just like possess the right ball, I guess.
Q. For a couple of you guys, whoever Mark picks, you guys are really known for your defense.  How hard was it for you guys to learn that defense?  And how long did it take to get it to where it is right now, so effective?
JAYSEAN PAIGE: The style of defense we play, conditioning is a big part of it.  We start in the off-season with conditioning, getting in shape to play the style of play we do.  So that's the main part of it.  And then just first day on campus, we just learn small principles, and it just builds up.
DEVIN WILLIAMS: I think the most important part is just buying in.  You've kind of got to buy in.  We kind of got a taste of it last year of how critical it can be, how crucial it could be when other teams have to face us.  We kind of made some history last year.  So it just gave a little bit more to look forward to.  Just everybody's being enthusiastic about it, so it's just making it easier for everybody to go out there and just cause mayhem.
JONATHAN HOLTON: Everyone bought in, and everyone's played hard.  That's about it, to tell you the truth.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT