NCAA MEN'S REGIONALS SEMIFINALS & FINALS: CLEVELAND
March 26, 2015
Bob Huggins
Juwan Staten
Devin Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 KENTUCKY - 78
  WEST VIRGINIA - 39
 
 MODERATOR: West Virginia has arrived at the main interview room.  We're joined now by West Virginia head coach Bob Huggins; student-athletes Devin Williams and Juwan Staten.  We'll take the first question for the West Virginia student-athletes as soon as there is one.
Q. For both players or either player, can you just talk about the start of the game when you fell behind, what do you feel like was the key to that particular start of the game?JUWAN STATEN: They came out with a lot of energy.  They shot the ball -- I watched a lot of film on them and that was probably the best I seen them shoot the ball all year.  You know, they got the ball in the right places and they played great defense on us, which made it hard for us to even set up our defense because we've got to score in order to get in our defense.  They came down the other end and they shot the ball well.DEVIN WILLIAMS: I don't know, I guess for me I picked up two early fouls and kind of let that frustrate me, and I think that's just a little maturity on my side, I got a little bit more growing up to do and things like that, but just like Juwanie said, they got a game plan and they went by and they stuck by and they just had a very balanced night tonight, the whole team.  It was a team effort tonight for them, and that's pretty much it right there.
Q. Can you guys talk about the second half, sometimes a team can come out and get real hot and you guys just didn't seem to be able to get one to go down for you to kind of get you to exhale.  Can you just talk about trying to fight and fight and fight and get that first field goal to go down.JUWAN STATEN: I mean, at the end of the day, it's basketball.  When you shoot the ball, it either goes in or it doesn't.  I can't really explain why shots didn't go in.  I can't really speak for everybody else.  It's just a matter of shots not going in.DEVIN WILLIAMS: I don't know, really, man.  It's just tough right now.  Everything just clicking for them.  The refs, they do their best job, they probably got one of the hardest jobs on the floor dealing with the coaches, the fans and the players, so they just try to collar us even as they could, but we just never got in a rhythm.  It was a lot of stopped balls and things like that, so we never got in a rhythm.  It's just hard, you know.  They did what they supposed to do at the end of the day, they did what they supposed to do and you can't stop something that's destined.  Got to give credit when credit due, and they did what they supposed to do tonight.
Q. I'm just wondering, two things, first, can you explain your feelings after this; and second, can you talk about getting shots off?  It looked like you guys had a difficult time just getting shots off period.JUWAN STATEN: I think the feeling is kind of self-explanatory.  As far as getting shots off, I mean, they're the biggest team in the country.  No team all year has been able to get easy shots on them, so they played hard, they protected the rim, they guarded.  They just played with a lot of fire, and that's all I can say about that.DEVIN WILLIAMS: I don't know.  You know, every team Coach Hugs had, every person he ever recruited been a self-made person, had to get it on their own.  For me, you know, I always had to get it on my own, you know, put the time in myself, I ain't never really been handed nothing.  So, you know, this loss for me, I'm going to take a week off or whatever they give us.  I'm just going to get right back at it and that's all I can do.  You know, I don't know, I can't do nothing about it but just get in the gym, watch film and get back at it.  It's fuel for me.  I've got two more years under my belt.  I don't know, I'm gonna shoot till my arm fall off.
Q. They looked like they came out on press on you guys, which is something you guys are known for.  How did that stop you early and did you expect that from them?JUWAN STATEN: I don't really think it was the press that bothered us.  I mean, they got a couple deflections or stops early, maybe a couple possessions, but it wasn't the press that bothered us.  We got the ball up the court so I don't think the press was the problem.  We just didn't really execute, we didn't do the things we were supposed to do.  They made it hard for us to score and we didn't play defense like we were supposed to and that's just the way the game went.DEVIN WILLIAMS: I think the pace, the tempo, they controlled the tempo and the pace the whole game.  Every game we won this year, the reason we're here right now is because we always controlled the tempo and the pace.  It's pretty much it.  They controlled the pace and the tempo of the game, you know, and the only way we going to be successful is us controlling the tempo and the pace.  They just did a good job slowing us down and things like that.
Q. Juwan, what do you think the program was able to establish this year that will hold up going forward, and what did you see from Devin that makes you confident that he'll be able to sort of step into that leadership role that you might be vacating?JUWAN STATEN: I think we put West Virginia basketball back on the map.  Coach Hugs has always had great teams, teams that are used to being in the NCAA Tournament, used to winning games.  For a while we got away from that, so just to get back to this spot, you know, to be in the Sweet 16 means that we got a special thing.  We only have a couple seniors graduating, so the bulk of the team is coming back.  You can definitely look forward to them being in the tournament for years to come. As far as Dev, he definitely showed his leadership this year.  Last year he was more quiet, kind of stubborn at times.  This year he definitely spoke up, you could see he wanted to help people, always talking, always pointing out things and showing people where they supposed to be.  He stepped up big.  If it wasn't for Dev, we wouldn't even be sitting here right now.  I really appreciate him, I know he's going to do great things next year and I'm just looking forward to seeing what's to come.MODERATOR: We would like to thank Juwan and Devin for joining us in the main interview room. First question for Coach Huggins, please raise your hand.
Q. Bob, can we get your take on what occurred the first eight minutes of the game?COACH HUGGINS: Well, I think pretty much what I was afraid could happen.  They shot the ball really poorly the last game, and they're too good to have a probably back-to-back bad days shooting the ball, and they came out and made a bunch of shots.  We're trying to scramble around and leave the right guy open.  They were aggressive, they took it to the basket and we couldn't score, which was my biggest fear was that we would have a hard time scoring.
Q. Bob, obviously scouting them, they're big.  Are they even more impressive when they're running at you, just the size factor, trying to deal with them, do they seem bigger on the court than what you were even anticipating?COACH HUGGINS: I don't know, I don't know if they seemed bigger, Dan.  You watch all the film and nobody scores around the basket.  I think that's the people that have given them a decent game are people who could make enough shots to get them spread and people who could offensive rebound and either kick it out or be able to finish around them because you can't finish over them.  I don't know if they -- no, I wouldn't say they were bigger than I thought they were.  They looked awful big on film to me.
Q. What do you think you guys were able to establish as a program this year, and what do you think you need to further establish to take another step?COACH HUGGINS: Well, we're still -- I mean, this team's pretty young.  I think it's attribute to Juwani and Gary and Devin that really were three veteran guys.  You look down the roster, this is Jon Holton's first year, this is Daxter Miles' first year, this is Jaysean Paige's first year, Jevon Carter's first year, Tarik Phillip's first year, Elijah Macon's first year, so we've got a lot of young, inexperienced guys that are only going to get better, and I think these three games of the tournament are going to make us better.  We'll be more seasoned a year from now.  We lost some games early, we lost some games when those two guys were out that we didn't want to lose certainly, but it did give those young guys a kind of baptism under fire.  So there's a lot returning, you know, so I don't know, what did we establish?  I think we're back where we're used to being, where I'm used to being anyway.
Q. You said watching them on film and so forth, was there anything they did tonight that surprised you?COACH HUGGINS: No, not really.  You know, we couldn't practice on Monday because we didn't get back until 4:00 in the morning, so I had really all day and I did nothing all day but watch film.  And I know John and John knows me, so I don't know, how are we going to surprise each other, you know?  They were what I thought they were.  I thought they were the best offensive team in the country.  Everybody kind of gets caught up in their size and all that, which is certainly a part of it, but to get those guys to play as hard and to play together the way they do, I mean, you look down there, you've got guys that, you know, are going to be lottery picks that they give the ball up, they share the ball.  John's done an incredible job.  A lot of what we do is managing people and managing egos and attitudes and all those kind of things, and he's done an absolutely terrific job of managing them, getting guys to play together and to care about one another.  They're just -- they're terrific defensively.  They've got -- that's the best defensive team I think that I've ever coached against.  And when they're making shots, and they made shots today, when they make shots, there's nobody going to beat them when they make shots like that.
Q. You kind of just answered this, but what would it take to beat Kentucky for any of the teams remaining in the tournament?COACH HUGGINS: They're going to have to have a bad day.  They had a good day today and we had a miserable day, you know, so we lose by 40.  If they have a really bad day shooting the ball, you can pack it back in, and try to keep the score down and close, but when they're making shots, they're making shots, they get you spread, they're too big and too skilled inside.  And you've got to be able to create some offense and transition or something because it's just, it's really difficult to score against their half-court, their half-court defense.  I think Georgia kind of did the best job, kind of got them spread but they still didn't win.  And that's probably as well as Georgia's played all year and probably Cal would say Kentucky didn't play very well and they still win.  I think that's the difference.  I thought going in really that the 2010 team may be more talented but they weren't near as good defensively.  I think they were, you can't argue with what John Wall and Cousins and Bledsoe and those guys have done in the NBA, they're very, very talented guys, but I don't think that team guarded the way this team guards, I think that's the difference.  I think this team is absolutely fantastic defensively.  When you've got two guards that are 6'6 and as long and as athletic as they are, they just take up so much space.  Back in Rough Run's the biggest guy was about 6'5.  He had to be a point guard or he'd never got in now, it's just they're just so big and so long.
Q. Some of the Kentucky guys just said that the comments before the game really motivated the team by a couple of your players.  Do you wish in hindsight they hadn't been made or does it not matter?COACH HUGGINS: No.  You know what, honestly, I think that's a bunch of BS.  I think once you throw the ball up, you play.  It was a freshman that said it and I'm kind of happy he had some confidence.  I'm kind of happy he wasn't hiding under a chair somewhere, you know?  There's nothing wrong with having some confidence and wanting to go out and compete.  They just were way better than we were.MODERATOR: Any further questions for Coach Huggins?  Thank you, Coach.
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT