CAPITAL ONE ORANGE BOWL: FLORIDA VS VIRGINIA
December 28, 2019
Hasise Dubois
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Can you share your thoughts on -- what was it that made this team toward that second half of the season just really get it together and come up with the wins that you guys came up with to win that Coastal?
HASISE DUBOIS: Honestly, I'd probably say the play of our O-line. Our O-line stepped up and gave Bryce time, and once you give Bryce time the team clicks. When he's at his best, it's basically a hassle to stop the offense. Once their O-line got to the best part, we just thrived, and we knew all the plays we needed to play and the receivers helped Bryce out, which helped the O-line out, which helped all of us out and helped the team out personally. So I feel like that's what made us get that jump the second half of the season.
Q. Did you guys have maybe like a group meeting or just talking about like, hey, guys, team meeting, just some intervention to say, hey, guys, let's come together to really rally around the end of the season?
HASISE DUBOIS: Honestly we had no specific meeting. We just all knew that we can play better based on all the spurts that we were having here and there, but then it took us a while to put it together and have it consistent. So I mean, the season, the losses early in the year helped us. We wouldn't be here if it wasn't for them, so I feel as though that helped us and made us better.
Q. Can you put into words just the whole Coastal Division in terms of how like you guys took advantage of just other teams beating up themselves? For example, you guys played Miami here, we know how that went, but these teams beat up on each other.
HASISE DUBOIS: Honestly, the Coastal Division is a tough division, honestly. Almost every year it's almost always by one game or a late race to the end of the season. Going from playing everybody, playing here in Miami, we were one of the teams banged up early in the year. We lost a corner, I was out for the second half. It was just a rough outing. But then as we were getting back healthy, other teams were getting more injured and everything, and then we just took -- we don't take that as an advantage, we just took our opportunities. We didn't take it for granted. All the plays we're making, all the opportunities that were given to us in all the instances, whether we were playing the ones or the twos, we just didn't look at them as a team, and we played our best ball.
Q. How do you guys build your confidence from the previous year?
HASISE DUBOIS: Honestly we knew we were better than that. Our defense, they know they had a bad game, but they've just seen it, they corrected it and they've been playing confident ever since. Going against them in practice you can tell they have a different mindset, they have a different pep in their step, so I feel as though the defense will have a great outing come Monday.
Q. (Question on Bryce and cutting the hair).
HASISE DUBOIS: Yeah, after the game I got to get in there, too, get a little snip-snips, I've got to cut him up a little bit. But yeah, he told us that he'll cut it once he beat Virginia Tech and then we forgot to tell him and then we were too riled up. But so after Orange Bowl we'll definitely have a new man coming out of that locker room come Monday night.
Q. What does it mean, he said, hey, what are you doing, but like -- he's got the hair, but he said it's going to be a new journey for him when he cuts it.
HASISE DUBOIS: I mean, honestly Bryce has had hair for a long time as you can see, but dreads that long don't really come overnight. That's a long process.
Q. Eighth grade he said.
HASISE DUBOIS: With him going back to the normal, it's going to be funny. He's got a weird shaped head, but it's going to be funny once we see him. He's not going to be anything different. He's still going to be Bryce. Just without having dreads he's going to be just another male figure in the sports atmosphere, so I feel as though it'll be a great thing for him.
Q. I spoke to Bryce about this being the year of the black quarterback, especially in the NFL. Obviously Lamar, Mahomes, Deshaun, Russell Wilson. What does it mean obviously when you see him throwing you these passes but obviously his success and his growth?
HASISE DUBOIS: I mean, honestly it means a lot to me because Bryce is a great kid. He's humble and everything. He's just destined for that level. As you can see, usually people with dreads that play the big show, anybody with long hair that plays the position, they try to move them elsewhere, like quarterback and DB --
Q. Like they did with Lamar.
HASISE DUBOIS: Exactly, so Bryce taking it to the next level, being clean cut, I feel as though he's very capable of being a quarterback in the NFL. Just like you said, like Lamar, we've got to move him positions. No, he has to stick stern to his position, quarterback. He has to go prove all the doubters wrong and prove to all the teams that passed him up that they made a mistake.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT