ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
June 25, 2019
Azhar Mahmood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Azhar, New Zealand is top of the table, and because of last season in the UAE, the two teams know each other very well, strengths and weaknesses.  You're working with the bowlers now.  How do you see tomorrow's match?  
AZHAR MAHMOOD: They're definitely a very strong side.  They won all of their games.  So we know they're a strong side.  If we can do our discipline right, like we did last game -- batting, bowling, and fielding.  Our ground fielding was really good, but unfortunately we dropped a lot of catches.  If we do our discipline right, we can beat any side.   
 Q.  What particular areas of New Zealand's game are you going to target and are you going to exploit?  Where do you think they are most vulnerable?  
AZHAR MAHMOOD: They are a quality side.  They've got a match spinner on their side.  So with the ball, you know, it's crucial for us to take a wicket with the new ball.  And when we bat, we need to get runs up front.  So our top three is the most important for us.  If we do our basics right, it's just about us, not about them.  We need to do our things right.   
 Q.  Azhar, did you see last match New Zealand was struggling with the spinners.  Would you use spinners more than fast bowlers?  
AZHAR MAHMOOD: We haven't seen the pitch yet.  We play two spinners anyway, and in our side, Haris can bowl as well and Hafeez.  So we've got almost four spinners on the side.  We'll see the pitch and assess the condition, and then we can use one thing against New Zealand.  Change of pace is crucial.   
 Q.  Azhar, at the Champions Trophy, Hasan Ali was your most successful bowler.  After that, he used to take a lot of wickets.  As the bowling coach, what do you think has gone wrong with him.  
AZHAR MAHMOOD: I think everyone in cricket, whether you're a batsman or a bowler, you have bad form.  I think he's having a bad form.  So he's low on his confidence.  I think he got a self doubt on his own ability.  So he's running in, and he's working hard on and off the field.  You can see that.  But it's just a matter of getting two, three wickets, and he'll be back.   
Same thing happened to Amir, you know.  After Champions Trophy, Amir was struggling, but he was bowling well.  Now you see that he's having a good time.  So it's same thing happened to Hasan Ali as well.   
 Q.  This will be your first match at the World Cup at Edgbaston.  What do you make of the pitch out there at the moment?  It's very flooded, looks a little bit like a swimming pool out there.  How is that going to affect your game?  
AZHAR MAHMOOD: Oh, we haven't seen the pitch yet, so I can't comment on that.  We played in this ground before in Champions Trophy.  So we know the condition really well.  We'll find out tomorrow morning how the pitch look like.  Maybe it's like the game played here was a slightly drier pitch.  So let's see under cover.  Maybe overcast condition tomorrow.  So we'll find out tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT