WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2008
Scott Sterling
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOHN BUSH: We'd like to welcome Scott Sterling into the interview room here after a 6-under par 64.   
 Scott, that was great playing out there today.  
 SCOTT STERLING: Yeah, thanks.  
 JOHN BUSH: Get some comments on the round.  
 SCOTT STERLING: Hit it pretty well. Hit it pretty good most the year and really haven't putted that well. Made a bunch of putts today, basically. It sounds a little cliche-ish, but that was the main difference, made three long ones out there and played solid, though.  
 JOHN BUSH: Talk a little bit about coming in. I think you made four straight cuts including a season best a few weeks ago with a tie for 12th place at the John Deere Classic.  
 So things are turning around a little bit. Talk a little bit about your season, your goals here, the last regular season event of the year.  
 SCOTT STERLING: Yeah. Goals this week definitely need at least a Top Ten to get into next week because I haven't played all that well this year.   
 I feel like I've been playing well and haven't scored real well this year and luckily, the last -- few weeks, made some cuts and the one tournament I played real well and had a chance to do some pretty good and struggled on the front-9 on Sunday.   
 Other than that, I played real solid and I don't know, still feel like I'm hitting it alright. Like I say, the putter was the difference today.  
 JOHN BUSH: Questions.  
  
  Q. What do you like this about course, Scott?  
 SCOTT STERLING: It sets up good for me because it's not a long course and obviously don't hit it too far so just keep it in play. Kind of an old style -- I actually grew up on a Donald Ross course, very tree-lined and kind of shape your shot.   
 It's nice to come in and play a course where you don't have to hit driver on every hole and pick and choose where to hit it and mainly keep it in play off the tee.  
  
  Q. What was that course?   
 SCOTT STERLING: Sunset Grove Country Club in Orange, Texas.  
 JOHN BUSH: Scott, you played here before on the Nationwide Tour, haven't you?   
 SCOTT STERLING: I want to say around '99-ish. I remember a couple of tee shots and a couple of holes. I think the greens are -- I don't think quite this severe. If they were, I don't remember them.  
  
  Q. Do you remember how you did?  
 SCOTT STERLING: I'm sure I missed the cut that year. I think I probably missed every cut that year.  
  
  Q. Can you talk a little bit about your putting and why it seems to have come around?  
 SCOTT STERLING: Actually I got a little putting device on the off week last week. I ordered it when we were in Reno and it came in. I don't know how much -- I know it's helped some but to see the results right now, you know, I don't know if it's just coincidence but I worked on it a few days on the off week.   
 I usually don't do much practicing when I'm home. I hit balls one day but I putted three days in a row with this little Dave Pelz thing and then just use it 15, 20 minutes everyday and, like I said, I don't know if they just went in today for some reason but hopefully it's a start for the rest of the year, anyway.  
  
  Q. What exactly is it? Where did you hear about it?  
 SCOTT STERLING: Well, I started talking to I guess you want to say a sports psychologist and she recommended it, actually, and I never used any -- every now and then I might use a chalk line. I never really used this thing.   
 It's Dave Pelz Putting Tutor is what it's called. And my caddy -- when we set it up out there, it's neat because it actually helps me read some of the greens, too, a little better when you see a putt, when you set it up on whatever six, eight foot putt, any putt and it's got a line on it where you look back and God, I'm really playing that much break where it looks like mainly we probably underreading a lot of putts the way -- then when you set it up, it makes you realize how much break you're actually playing.  
 And so we kind of -- like I said, it helps with your stroke, too, obviously, but, like I say, I don't know if this is just one of those days where they went in finally.   
 Hopefully it's maybe seeing some improvement from using it. Like I said, I've only used it five, six, seven days so I don't -- kind of surprise they went in so soon.   
  
  Q. How long were the three long ones you made?  
 SCOTT STERLING: I want to say the last hole was probably close to 30 feet and I probably made two more that 35 to 40. One 40 probably and the other one yeah, probably 30, 25.  
 JOHN BUSH: Scott take us through the bogey on No. 11.  
 SCOTT STERLING: Yeah. Three-putted. Had a long putt and hit it decent. Ran it by probably five feet and just kind of bad putt. Kind of underread it a little bit.   
 But, you know, wasn't mad because I actually felt like I putted with a decent stroke on it and just basically that was it. I three-putted.  
 JOHN BUSH: Nice stretch starting on 14 with the birdie.   
 SCOTT STERLING: That was one of the long ones. Probably the longest one, probably a good 40 feet or so. What's the other one, 15, par 5? Hit that green in 2 and two-putted. It was a good two-putt because I was on the front. The pin is back right. I made a 5, 6-footer coming back.  
 JOHN BUSH: Par 3, 16.  
 SCOTT STERLING: Probably another long one. Probably 25, 30 feet up the slope there. Just happened to go in again.  
 JOHN BUSH: 17.  
 SCOTT STERLING: 17. Maybe eight, ten feet, eight feet and then the one on the front, par 4 was No. 4?  
 JOHN BUSH: No. 4.  
 SCOTT STERLING: Maybe ten feet behind the hole. Good putt but not long. Then actually I had about a ten footer for eagle on the next hole and left it short dead center. So hit a good putt, just left it short even though it was ten feet but tap-in birdie was nice.  
 JOHN BUSH: Alright.  
 SCOTT STERLING: Long one on the last.  
 JOHN BUSH: Anything else? Scott, great play. Keep it going the next three days.  
 SCOTT STERLING: Thanks.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT