PENN STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 24, 2015
Geno Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I wanted to ask where you've seen the most improvement across which position group this season from start to finish?
GENO LEWIS: Good question.  I think a lot of the positions have made great growth as the season went on.  I think our defensive line has taken another step this year, especially with Nassib, with 15 and a half sacks, he's been very impressive, and the whole D-line, Zettel, Austin, Parker, even the young guys stepping up and making big plays.  I really think they've done a really good job.
Q. You've been on a lot of offenses throughout your career.  What's the biggest challenge from taking a team from point A to point B, the beginning of the year to when you're better at the end?  What is the process like and what's really the biggest hurdle?
GENO LEWIS: The main thing is just execution.  We all have to go out there and do our jobs, just do what you're supposed to do, play to the best of your ability and go out there and make plays and take advantage of your opportunities.
Q. You guys have already clinched a winning record so far this season, but you guys have yet to beat a winning Big Ten 10 or a winning power five team.  Do you guys need to beat Michigan State to consider this season a success?
GENO LEWIS: Well, personally I feel like we need to beat every team, regardless if they're ranked or not.  When we go into every week we're trying to make a game plan to put ourselves in the best position to win, and this is the last regular season game, and this is a big game for us, and we want to go out there and play to the best of our ability and try to get the upset.
Q. When we talk to Chris Godwin, he seems pretty quiet to us, pretty laid-back and low key.  Is that really what Chris is like?
GENO LEWIS: Yeah, Chris is a pretty quiet guy, but when he's with us, he talks a little bit more, but for the most part, he's very quiet, just goes and does what he's supposed to do, and just moves on.  But he's a really good guy, though.
Q. Brandon Bell, another guy who's pretty quiet around us, but people have said that's not always the case, so what's Brandon like with you guys and can you just speak a little about the preparation that he puts into his game?
GENO LEWIS: Brandon Bell is an awesome person and a great player.  He comes out to practice and works hard each and every day.  He's one of the funnier guys on the team.  You know, he jokes around a lot.  He puts a smile on everyone's face, and like he knows when the time is to be serious and the time to play around.  I really enjoy having him as a teammate.
Q. Just to put you in the role of a scout for a second, when you're watching Michigan State on film, what really jumps out at you?
GENO LEWIS: They have a really good defensive line.  They've been playing well all year.  They've got some pretty good DBs, and the linebackers are playing well, too.  I think it's going to be a great challenge and a great opportunity for us to come out and make plays.
Q. Coach talked about their DBs getting up in your face with a lot of press coverage.  Talk about how you guys can win and get off the line and get some separation on Saturday.
GENO LEWIS: I feel personally if the DBs want to press and play man, it's just a better opportunity for the receivers to make plays because it's basically playing one-on-one and you're on an island.  I think it's a great challenge.  They have a great defense going on right now.  They're coming off a good win.  You know, we want to come out there and make some plays.
I'm confident in the receiving corps that we have and all the guys that's in our room, and you know, we're just going to go out there and try to take advantage.
Q. You got here one year before Christian Hackenberg.  I'm just curious what kind of impact do you think he's had on this program, not just this year but overall, and what is it about him that also maybe impresses you the most?
GENO LEWIS: Christian is a great leader.  I think he came in just in time when we needed somebody to step in at the quarterback role.  You know, he's been great the last three years.  I mean, he's had his ups and downs, but for the most part he's been positive about everything, and I think he's a great player, a great person, and I think he's going to be very successful from here on out.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT