AMERICAN ATHLETIC CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 12, 2015
Orlando Antigua
Anthony Collins
Troy Holston, Jr.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









MODERATOR:   We have with us from the USF Bulls Head Coach Orlando Antigua, Anthony Collins and Troy Holston.   Coach, do you want to make an opening statement?
COACH ANTIGUA:   I just think came out in the first half and faced a team that came out with a little bit of vinegar.   I thought our guys were a little bit -- had some nerves, and understandably so in a conference tournament with the kind of atmosphere that was here tonight, and once we settled down and we started making some shots.   But you have to give Connecticut credit, they came out and played extremely hard and made some tough shots, especially early on.
MODERATOR:   Thank you.   Questions from the floor?

Q.   Troy, over the last few weeks you've had to pick up a lot of the scoring load.   Can you talk about what you have learned over this past month or so that's going to help this team going forward?
TROY HOLSTON JR.:   I think that towards the end of the stretch of the season we kept working hard and everyone was competing in practice even though the losses were, we were losing games, we were still competing and working hard and I think that that shows everyone still had some fighting in them and that's a good sign for the future.

Q.   Coach, can you just address the future, such a young team, obviously not the way you wanted to end the season but the way these guys stepped up after your two top scorers went down?
COACH ANTIGUA:   Just everything the team dealt with throughout this past season, I'm proud of them, I'm proud of them.   They got some life lessons from it, dealing with adversity and understanding that they have the power of choice of how they decide to deal with adversity.   Do you sit there and feel sorry for yourself or do you get back to work, roll up your sleeves and continue to work, continue to work and they did that, they did that.   We had several occasions throughout the year where different guys were out and guys stepped up, next man up, the next person then just stepped in and for the betterment of the team, took the next step forward and that was huge, that's important for us and for our future.   We've got a bunch of young guys that had to get a lot of experience and I was joking with both of these young men as we were walking in and I said you guys got to be tired because I looked down and they both played 39 minutes.   And I was trying to figure out how to get them some rest, but as warriors, they stayed out there and they competed and gave us all their effort.

Q.   Anthony, can you just address the first six minutes of the game?   What were they doing to shut you guys down and what did you guys say to each other after you look up after six minutes and there is zero points up on the board?
ANTHONY COLLINS:   I think we took the shots and we just missed them, that just happens in the game of basketball.   I think we let that discourage us on defense and we shouldn't have, but I think, I mean that's basketball.   We have to give them credit, too, but we did miss some shots that we normally make.
MODERATOR:   Anyone else?   Thank you, gentlemen.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT