BOSTON COLLEGE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 19, 2016
Patrick Towles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Connecticut - 0, Boston College - 30
Q. Patrick, just comment on the short field you got from your defense, your return game and Mike Knoll today?
PATRICK TOWLES: Yeah, really helped us out.  Kind of the offense we play, the kind of style we play, the defense has to complement the offense and vice versa, and did a really good job of that today.
Q. Coach said that today was your best game of the year; do you agree with him?
PATRICK TOWLES: I'll take it because we won.  So I appreciate that.  You know, we had a really, really good week of practice.  Coach Addazio told us after, that the Tuesday we had had been the best Tuesday he's seen since he's been here.
I think that's a testament to the resolve of our football team.  It was a great team win.  Offense played awesome.  Our kickoff unit coverage was incredible.  Just honored to be a part of this football team.
Q. The post -- inaudible.
PATRICK TOWLES: Kind of like a -- call it a shoot route, where they play the exact defense we thought they were going to play.  Additions that we made this week, and Mike did a great job of making that guy miss, slipping it over the top.
Q. The way that you guys changed up the offense with Jeff Smith and the wildcat, how do you think that affects the defense, changing the base?
PATRICK TOWLES: I think it does a lot.  If we can continue to be effective with that like we were tonight, that's just another thing that the defense has to -- that Wake Forest will have to prepare for.  So if we can continue to do that effectively, I'm all for it.
Q. You guys had a lot of success with empty sets and it seemed like it opened up the middle of the field for you.  Can you expand on that, on how it helped you guys with the offense?
PATRICK TOWLES: For sure, I love empty, and I get to get some receivers out there, which I like.  Coach does a great job of putting in play that is really put stress on defense, especially in particular, sets of three.  We did a great job, and all ourselves ran great routes, ran very disciplined routes.  That first route -- got to get to No. 2, No. 3 and because of our timing was so good this week in practice and because the receivers took the initiative to run great routes like they did today, that's why we were able to do that.
Q. How big was it for you, especially on that first drive in the second half, being able to find some true consistency, especially on that big reception, and just being able to have a really fluid, offensive game, especially leading into next week?
PATRICK TOWLES: It's really big.  We talked all week, we've got two games left to make the season special.  Check one, right.  We won today, which is great and we've got a one-game season left.
You know, it's great to develop that level of consistency, like I was talking earlier, our offense has to complement our defense and vice versa, and if we can be consistent on offense like we were at NC State and like we were tonight, our defense, which played incredible -- so really, they have shown that when they get a little breathing room, that they are lights out.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT