KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 21, 2019
Jimin Kang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  The transition time and what you've had to do to try to get into it.  Can you explain this after you left the Tour?  
JIMIN KANG: I haven't retired officially.  There was a story that I was wrong diagnosed, overmedicated.   
 Q.  I heard that.  
JIMIN KANG: You read that.   
 Q.  The T&CP movement, to get into the T&CP.  
JIMIN KANG: I call, find out what other classes I have to take, seminars.  So I think that's just process whatever they gave me, Level 1, 2, 3, seminar, test, test and I'm here.   
 Q.  Will you be locating at a certain facility?  
JIMIN KANG: Not yet.   
 Q.  Anything planned or any thoughts about with where you're going to be?  
JIMIN KANG: I would like to be an instructor one day but I think I still have eager to play so teaching, I think I can teach when I'm done playing.  I'm not in a rush to be an instructor but I do teach, help my friends.   
I think they love my help because I'm not charging them yet and they can see the improvement right away so -- not yet.  But I'm looking -- I'm probably looking to maybe starting this fall or something.   
 Q.  In Arizona?  
JIMIN KANG: No.  I'm open.  United States, period.  I'm single, I can go anywhere.   
 Q.  I guess the question is, on the male side they have a transition time where you can be either life member or get on the Tour to get to T&CP.  Certain requirements we don't understand.  
JIMIN KANG: You mean what's the difference between PGA and LPGA?   
 Q.  I'm asking the T&CP, you get to the teaching level so you can qualify as a, quote unquote, club professional to play in this division, you know.  I'm trying to understand.  
JIMIN KANG: Class A teaching.   
 Q.  When did you start, like start to study or take taking classes for that, when did you get your --  
JIMIN KANG: When did I set get my certification.  I passed all my tests in December, 2018.  No, what year is this?   
 Q.  2019.  
JIMIN KANG: 18th thank you.  I'm sorry.  I had long day.  Yesterday I finished then I came back out.  I felt like I just had a good nap and came back out.   
 Q.  This is your 35th Major career --  
JIMIN KANG: I never counted.   
 Q.  When did you feel that you recovered well enough from that medication issue, how long did it take you to get over that?  
JIMIN KANG: Took forever but I really needed the time because I think I was done in 2015 because I realized travel is a lot less and only three days tournament.   
I tried that but then I realized at one point I realized I wasn't swinging the golf club, it was swinging me.  I thought this is not the way I should do.  I felt and realized I pushed myself over the limit and what human being can do.   
That's the one point I thought like okay, I need to really take care of myself and look for my health to get better.  Then I couldn't do anything -- I couldn't do nothing so I decided to go back to school.  I'm like because I never finished.  I went but never finished.  I decided to enroll.   
I didn't know studying would take that much strength.  I thought it was just sitting at a desk and study.  I didn't know it takes that much energy.  So, while I was in a study mode I realized I was like oh, since I'm in study mode why don't I get this done, too.   
That's when I got into the teaching and that's a totally something different I never even thought about it.  I thought it was a great opportunity for myself and have to teach, tell you what to do or explain things.  It was such a great experience.   
 Q.  Who was been your coaching growing up?  Who has been your inspiration?  
JIMIN KANG: I had Jim Flick for about six years and then Dave Stockton is the one that I still stay in touch with.   
 Q.  You still see Dave Stockton?  
JIMIN KANG: I talk to him once in awhile.  I love him.   
 Q.  Big inspiration for the men's side.  I guess the other question is, once you're doing so well here in this Major, can you sort of partition your year now say well, I may go back and forth or --  
JIMIN KANG: I try to go back, yeah, try to get my job back, yeah.  So teaching I can do when I cannot play.  It's like good backup.  At the same time I really enjoy doing it but then while I can play I like to play and see how it goes.   
You're asking great questions.   
 Q.  About the round today, we heard about the birdies but you really had to play solid that backside too.  
JIMIN KANG: That's why my brain is so fried.  I had to keep focused.  Later, oh, my God, I can't focus.  It was so hard.  But I know each -- it's been awhile but I start playing a tournament like at the U.S. Open throughout and I realize I just have to keep on playing golf tournament to win to be in tournament shape.  I think I'm figuring out my own way and how I used to play out here.   
 Q.  When do you think you played like this last on Tour?  
JIMIN KANG: Oh, sir, it's been awhile.   
 Q.  Let me jump in, your first made cut since this tournament in 2014.  
JIMIN KANG: That's awhile.   
 Q.  What does it mean to you to have it back here?  
JIMIN KANG: Happy hour after this.   
 Q.  Thank you for that.  
JIMIN KANG: But I don't drink.  My happy hour be go out, eat and have fun.   
 Q.  We're talking all the way back to '14.  
JIMIN KANG: Oh, God.  Thank you.  My brain won't go that far.  Can't even go back to the last hole yet.   
 Q.  Just a feeling of really a good round.  
JIMIN KANG: Yeah.   
 Q.  Congratulations.  
JIMIN KANG: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT