U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 5, 2012
Jimin Kang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How tough was it out there with this heat today?
JIMIN KANG:   It wasn't that pleasant.   Let me put it that way. 

Q.   Have you played anything like this?
JIMIN KANG:   Last week.   Rogers, Arkansas.   Yes.   Just like this.   But a fraction differently, but still, it's hot.

Q.   Not only is it hot, but you're at a pretty demanding golf course. 
JIMIN KANG:   Yes.   Needs everything that you got or more.

Q.   Talk about you were 2‑under going into the last hole.   What happened on 18?
JIMIN KANG:   Obviously I didn't hit the fairway.   I went in the bunker, and the ball was tucked in a little place that I wasn't pleased with.   But I just have to hit it out.   And out of the fairway I hit it a fraction long club and 3‑putted.

Q.   Not the way you want to leave the course?
JIMIN KANG:   Nope.   Gotta work hard tomorrow to get that back. 

Q.   Par is still a pretty good score around here. 
JIMIN KANG:   Thank you.   Appreciate it.   But 2‑under sounded a lot better, wasn't it. 

Q.   Is there a stretch of holes out there that it's particularly difficult that if you get through at even par or even if you get at 1‑under ‑‑
JIMIN KANG:   You know, I was hoping but not out here.   No.   Every single shot, every single hole I gotta like pay attention every single shot because there's no shot you can take, awe, just let me grab a driver and rip it and see what happens.   No.   No.   No.   Not that I know of.

Q.   How much water did you drink today?   How many bottles did you go through?
JIMIN KANG:   I didn't count it, but I know I was drinking the whole time.   Yep.   Yes, for sure.

Q.   Did you drink a lot before you went out, too?
JIMIN KANG:   That too, yes.   And I'm probably going to drink more since I'm done.

Q.   When the course demands such focus on every single shot, how difficult is it to not let your mind wander?
JIMIN KANG:   It's the U. S. Open.   What do you expect?   You gotta bring everything or more for this tournament to be a champion.   So I expect it, and here we go.   Yep.   Just what you expected.

Q.   What's more difficult out there, young lady, the golf course or the heat?
JIMIN KANG:   That's two bad combinations.   Golf course wasn't easy, definitely, but heat added up even more, so it got worse.   How's that? 

Q.   Cooled off a little over the weekend ‑‑
JIMIN KANG:   Can we have a sun umbrella out here?   I'm still getting hot.   I'm tired.

Q.   Did the course get more difficult over the weekend or is it what it is today?
JIMIN KANG:   I don't know.   Ask USGA staff.   They'll know better.   But probably with the pressure.   Pressure does a lot more to it.

Q.   Are you overall, though, pleased with today's round?   I know historically you've struggled a bit in this tournament.   Are you happy with your opening round at even par?
JIMIN KANG:   I'm thankful that I finished without ‑‑ because I've been sick a lot.   Nobody really think about how to breathe, but I really actually had to think about how to breathe because I was using an inhaler, nostril spray, talking to guys and finishing up.   I'm very thankful for it. 

Q.   Were you sick last week?
JIMIN KANG:   Been sick for a while.   Yeah.   Allergies. 

Q.   Allergies.   Nice.   You enjoy music and flute and what have you.   How do you relax off the golf course?
JIMIN KANG:   Flute, I don't travel with it because I'm staying at the hotel and I don't want to get a little warnings from everywhere.   But there is one thing I find out that last winter I noticed myself I relax to play golf.   I thought it was funny, because I play golf for a living, trying to get ready, practice and all that, but I also find myself, I play golf for fun, just like any other of you guys.   Yeah.   It's a great game, isn't it.   Very frustrating, but ‑‑ (laughs).   Any other questions?   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT