MICHELOB ULTRA OPEN AT KINGSMILL
May 9, 2008
Jimin Kang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Can you talk about your birdie, about your scorecard? How was it out there?
 JIMIN KANG: Crazy.

 Q. I mean you started off, you had birdie, eagle birdie, and then you have the bogey but then you came back with another eagle.
 JIMIN KANG: Oh, goo. No complaints. I had so many bogeys. It was good.

 Q. Can you talk about your birdie, about your, scorecard, about what you had?
 JIMIN KANG: Well, for me you need to ask me.

 Q. What club did you have on the first green?
 JIMIN KANG: Had 5-iron. Let me just think about that. Let me understand.

 Q. Then the bogey on 17. What club did you have?
 A 6-iron, 171 was the number and went through the green in the first cut there.

 Q. Alright. Can you talk about going through your round and having to overcome, the cold, then you had the rain and then it was hot and then --
JIMIN KANG: We had everything but snow today.

 Q. How do you get through something like that?
 JIMIN KANG: Do I have a choice? No. But, you know what, I just thankful that I can play great golf and I have fun. I mean obviously lot of opportunity I have and then I did it. But you know what, I just appreciate what I've done and just be thankful for my caddy, Bob, hanging out there for me, when I get grumpy.

 Q. Did you feel like you had momentum from last week, you had a great finish to last week in the tournament coming into here?
 JIMIN KANG: Yeah. I think I definitely carried it more and more, attitude towards this. Definitely whole mindset is different. Yeah. This is funny. This keeps coming in my head, I can't think of anything. Like I have like 30-footer, eagle, I know I can do anything. Obviously when you know that your golf game is going along, it's good. What can I say? Get over it. Move on.

 Q. What happened between the first and second round last Thursday when you shoot like 82 and 69 or whatever?
 JIMIN KANG: Like I said, different mindset.

 Q. How do you change it that quickly from one day to the next?
 JIMIN KANG: It's a woman. Woman can be anything. Don't you know? No. Nothing. None of it. 
 It's thoughts. We just thought about -- I had a really, really strong -- sitting in the car, I'm almost like an hour and a half and I laid out like, "Okay, I'm done crying, now I need to figure out what I'm going to do" and I talked to my coach and I didn't want to talk to anybody else but he just put things in my head and I think that always works with people and that was a time I think he is the one who spoke for me that I should just look at myself instead of getting upset at my sport. 
 Look at all the putts that I made. That's all I was talking about, was my putting. I wasn't hitting any greens. I realized I need to hit the greens and give myself a chance to make a birdie to make a 4 instead of making 50-footer for par. That's it. It's the same old thing but I try to do things better.

 Q. Who is your coach?
 JIMIN KANG: I am enjoying more golf. My coach from college. I worked with him. I wanted something to know, something that I didn't even talked to my mom and dad. I start off. The next day I had voice mail and that was it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT