MICHELOB ULTRA OPEN AT KINGSMILL
May 11, 2007
Jimin Kang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Can we go over your scorecard? 
 JIMIN KANG:  I made a birdie on No. 2.  I hit a 5-iron. 
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  How close? 
 JIMIN KANG:  15-footer. 
 No. 3, 12-footer.  I hit driver, went in a bunker, hit it out with a 6-iron so hit it -- some kind of 9-iron, almost 130. 
 12, I hit a driver and gripped a soft 9-iron like 131 or something like that and knocked it on, 3-footer.  Nice. 
 No. 13, the par 3, I hit same kind of 9-iron, knocked it on about 15-footer, made it. 
 14, missed it.  15, missed it. 
 16, that was a good birdie.  I hit a driver on the right side of the bunker and 6-iron to the green.  That was about 44-footer, made it. 
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  How far out were you? 
 JIMIN KANG:  155 from the sand. 
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Six birdies, no bogeys, you're 6-under for the day, how excited are you? 
 JIMIN KANG:  I'm very excited because I was injured last year, so I didn't play competitive golf.  I had a broken foot last year, so didn't play golf since June.  So it was really exciting, very exciting. 

 Q.  How did you break the foot? 
 JIMIN KANG:  How?  Oh, don't go there.  But I got this orthotic and they didn't fit it right and wearing them for two months, it just broke it, which I didn't know.  It was very frustrating.  So I had a cast and everything you can imagine.  Couldn't do anything, stayed in the house, put the feet up. 

 Q.  Which one? 
 JIMIN KANG:  Left.  So it was even harder, because, you know, I'm right-handed, so my swing, weight is supposed to go toward the left, but I couldn't hold any weight on the left. 

 Q.  When did you start kind of working your way back? 
 JIMIN KANG:  As soon as the doctor says I could walk, I just came back out here in October last year in California.  That was like first time I pushed myself. 

 Q.  So you just got off the couch and got your clubs and went to the next tournament? 
 JIMIN KANG:  Yeah, basically, that's what I did. 

 Q.  Was that pretty frustrating? 
 JIMIN KANG:  Well, it was frustrating not knowing what caused to me get a stress fracture, but later once I found out what causes it, it's better.  So I have no choice but stay in the house. 

 Q.  So today when you saw what the scores were yesterday, what were you thinking when you got on the first tee today? 
 JIMIN KANG:  Not much.  It's a brand new day.  Let's hit 'em straight and see what happens. 

 Q.  What was the difference between yesterday's round and today's round for you? 
 JIMIN KANG:  I made more putts.  Because yesterday I hit 17 greens and missed the one green which was No. 10.  I teed off on the 10th. 
 But today I putted better definitely. 

 Q.  Was this as good a putting day as you have had this year? 
 JIMIN KANG:  So far, yes, sir.  Look at the score.  (Laughing). 

 Q.  So you're more happy-go-lucky than most people that come in here.  You're kind of happy -- 
 JIMIN KANG:  Easygoing, yes, sir. 

 Q.  Your demeanor tomorrow, will it change at all because you're in contention? 
 JIMIN KANG:  If you saw me like yesterday, I'm just still the same.  Just I won't be sitting here yesterday.  (Laughter) because I shot even. 

 Q.  So do you just not let it affect you either way? 
 JIMIN KANG:  You know what, whatever happens, it will happen so, what can I say, right? 

 Q.  Do you feel like your game is kind of coming around? 
 JIMIN KANG:  It's been around, just nothing was going in.  But it was good to know I got potential playing golf out here. 

 Q.  You've done well here before, though, haven't you?  You've had good rounds here before? 
 JIMIN KANG:  Yes, sir, that's what I just heard. 

 Q.  You don't remember that? 
 JIMIN KANG:  I don't remember that. 

 Q.  When you come to this course, does it look like a place where you should expect to do well more than some other places? 
 JIMIN KANG:  You know what, I would like to say so but I would not because high expectations, I can have high disappointment, so I would rather just not expect anything.  Just go out there and have a great day and give it all I have and see what happens by the end of the round.  Pretty wise. 
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Do you remember what you did on 7? 
 JIMIN KANG:  Hit a driver and hit a 7-iron, I got about 155 hard to the pin.  I hit a 7-iron, passed it, about 18, 19-footer and made it. 
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Thank you. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT