ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 14, 2013
Pe'Shon Howard
Mark Turgeon
Dezmine Wells
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   We are joined by Maryland.
COACH TURGEON:   First of all it was a good win for us, I thought Coach Jeff Bzdelik had his team ready, they came ready to play, they executed well, they had some new plays and did a great job.   I got off our guys at halftime, talked about energy. 
We came out with energy, started the second half, got our offense goin', weren't quite as good defensively until the end.   We did something tonight we don't do a lot, we got to the foul line and made free‑throws.   That was the difference, but really proud of my guys, we had to play some funny lineups to do some things and the guys responded well, good win for us. 

Q.   Dez, talk about the defense on C.J. here in the second half, you hold him without a field goal and I think only 6 points.   How key was that to take him out of Wake Forest's offense and allow you guys to build momentum to translate to the offense? 
DEZ WELLS:   Pe'Shon did a great job on him.   We dug down and took his lanes away from him and just tried to make him make passes to the teammates that didn't beat us.   I'm sure he will play after college.   We did a good job of team defense on him in the second half. 

Q.   Pe'Shon, that second half was probably as loose as I think a lot of folks have seen you play over the last couple months or so.   This was almost like a fresh start for you, this tournament and was that as good as you have felt over the last couple of months? 
PE'SHON HOWARD:   Definitely I felt loose.   The coaches said at halftime to go out and have fun, it's a new season, take one possession at a time and concentrate on that and have fun and be together.   We have fun together on the court. 

Q.   Dez, when you first made a college decision there was a chance you would never play in an ACC Tournament, now not only did you play in one, you're in your home state, your team won and you're the star player, is that an exaggeration or a dream come true? 
DEZ WELLS:   I wouldn't say I'm the star player, but ya know I grew up watching guys like Jason Lane, Mike Denvy, Juan Dixon and Steve Bleakley, so a great feeling to be close to home and playing in the greatest conference in college basketball, and I'm just excited to be here and excited to play and compete. 

Q.   Coach, will you talk about the success that you had in the second half and what y'all did? 
COACH TURGEON:   I think it was a combination, I think we were pretty good and they had a lot of shots go in and out.   If you're a Wake Forest fan you saw a lot of them bounce out, limiting them to one shot, I said guys we got to make 'em shoot jump shots, they're getting to the rim and that was when Travis McKie drove baseline, they had to shoot jump shots to beat and you say we played smarter that way.   They got some open shots and they didn't fall but we were locked in, scouting report was pretty good in the second half, our guys were locked in, did a much better job on Harris.   First half they got a ball screen, didn't show, ran a double screen and we didn't show, and after that we were pretty locked in. 

Q.   Dez, last time you played Duke, Ryan Kelly didn't play against y'all, how does that change that game tomorrow to have him on the floor? 
DEZ WELLS:   Ryan changes the dynamic of the team.   We're going to have him ready and be ready for him and the rest of the players, Coach K is a great coach but I believe in my defense and my team and my coaches.

Q.   Pe'Shon, about Duke, you have a quick turn around and not a lot of time, what are your thoughts about playing them for the third time this year? 
PE'SHON HOWARD:   It's going to be a grind, they're a great team, great coaches, I trust our coaches to have us prepared.   They know everybody in and out of the conference, you have to play every team twice and we're going to have to come out be ready, lock in and grind it out. 

Q.   Dez, how much of a motivation was it knowing you guys need probably a couple of wins here to try to get into the NCAA Tournament? 
DEZ WELLS:   We were going out and competing every night, we play to win every game so whether we were a lock in or whether we, you know, had no chance of being in the NCAA Tournament we were going to come out here and play our hearts out for each other and for our coaches because in the end that's all we have. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, guys.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT