NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: PADRES v BRAVES
October 10, 1998
Trevor Hoffman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. What's your son's name?

TREVOR HOFFMAN: This is Brody.

Q. Can you talk about the team being up 3-0?

TREVOR HOFFMAN: Well, it's just that. I think looking at it, it looks insurmountable,
but it's like having Tony Gwynn 0-2, and you throw a pitch, and he gets a base hit off of
you. There's a club that's capable of coming back on you; so we're not going to take
anything for granted.

Q. What's the genesis of the whole Hell's Bells things?

TREVOR HOFFMAN: It's part of the drama. It's part of building up the 9th inning, and
getting the crowd excited and getting them into it. And I think it works. You saw it
today, 65,000 people just screaming and yelling, and anticipating the end of the ballgame.
On my end, it's a battle to try and stay focused and not get caught up in the emotion
that's going through my body.

Q. Did you pick that song?

TREVOR HOFFMAN: No, I didn't. One of the music guys did. Good choice.

Q. Trev, most of the time you come in at the start of an inning. Would you say this
batter that you came in to strike out was the biggest for you, a lot of big at-bats?

TREVOR HOFFMAN: It was definitely big. I faced Chipper Jones the other night in
Atlanta, in sort of the same situation. And I was able to get him out. But relinguished
the lead the next inning. Regardless of the outs you get, you have to stay focused and get
each and every guy out until you get the last one. Magnitude-wise, yeah, it was huge.
Anytime that the games you're playing have a game number next to it, they're going to be
large. So you just try to get it done.

Q. In that situation how big has Finley been for the team?

TREVOR HOFFMAN: I've been home watching them on TV getting big hits like that before,
and he's capable of doing it. And we were fortunate to make pretty big hits on him and get
out of that situation.

Q. What do you think you've done for this team, Trevor?

TREVOR HOFFMAN: Well, I think I've left the wind in our sails. I think it's been a
situation where I've been given the baseball in situations to do the job, and I've been
fortunate enough to be successful in those situations. I think in this role the momentum
swings can be huge when you don't do your job. And I think that's the biggest key is to
keep the team momentum going.

Q. What are you expecting from Hamilton?

TREVOR HOFFMAN: I think he's going to be excited to be back starting the game. He gets
nervous down there. His role is a bit undefined in the playoffs, being in the bullpen, but
he's definitely a starter, and I think he's well prepared to do a great job for us
tomorrow.

Q. Trev, 43 pitches the other night. Any after effects?

TREVOR HOFFMAN: My arm got really big. And the big thing that got lost in the whole
thing -- not lost in it, but Kevin Brown did such a remarkable job, allowed the guys in
the bullpen to get rest. And to have the travel day was another day. Things couldn't have
worked out better for the pitching staff.

Q. What do you say to the skeptics now?

TREVOR HOFFMAN: We're not looking for redemption in that regard. Our guys in the
clubhouse believe themselves, and we know we're up for the task. Again, you're going to
have to be good ballclubs to get into situations, so we're just going to continue to
believe in ourselves.

Q. Do you watch Indians and the Yankees games more closely now than you did before?

TREVOR HOFFMAN: No, not necessarily. I think we've been fortunate, those games have
been played when we haven't been playing, so we've been fortunate to be able to watch
them. The game is on TV in the clubhouse now, so I'm sure there are guys watching it.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT