U.S. SENIOR WOMEN'S OPEN
May 17, 2019
Lisa DePaulo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What worked for you today?
LISA DEPAULO: Not letting the USGA drive me crazy.  (Laughs.)
No, I just stayed -- I mean, I didn't let anything bother me.
Q. What are the challenges of this golf course?
LISA DEPAULO: Not hitting bad shots.  I mean, if you hit a bad shot, you are going to pay severely.  And getting the -- trying to stay below the hole.
Q. How challenging are these greens?
LISA DEPAULO: They're so challenging, it's ridiculous.  They are something else.  I mean, I was going to get ready to complain about my putting because I missed -- I had two three-putts and missed several putts inside six feet, but I had six birdies, so I don't think it's -- you can't even complain about your putting I don't think when you've had six birdies, not in my league.
Q. And what are your -- what's your mindset going to be going into the weekend now?
LISA DEPAULO: I just want to keep getting a little better every day.  I'm honing in on it.  They did some watering last night, and that changed some approach shots.
Q. On your front nine, you had a stretch where you bogeyed three in a row and then you followed that with two birdies.  That was a pretty good switch for you?
LISA DEPAULO: That was really nice.  You know, on the front -- wait, the front side --
Q. The back side, I'm sorry.
LISA DEPAULO: Yeah, I got into a little -- just had a little problem there and made -- I think I had a three-putt.  One here I just wrote I made a good stroke, and I made a bogey, and then it was nice to birdie 17 and 18.  And I mean, I had it inside 10 feet on 1, and in all honesty, I thought, this would be pretty cool to go three birdies in a row at an Open, and I banged it, and I three-putted from 10 feet.
Q. Were your birdies of length or were they all pretty close?
LISA DEPAULO: The longest one I made was on 18, I was pin high about 25 feet, and it was going at a nice pace.  I told myself I'd keep my head down really good, and when that hit the pin and went in, I kissed the flagpole.  I like that new rule.
Q. How do you like your position on the leaderboard?  Tell us about that.
LISA DEPAULO: Last I saw, I think I was tied for fifth and maybe leader in the clubhouse.  Everybody is teeing off; is that right?
Q. You're leading in the clubhouse.
LISA DEPAULO: I'm liking it.  I'm ready to have a beer, a cold beer.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT