NL DIVISION SERIES: CARDINALS VS BRAVES
October 4, 2019
Harrison Bader
Matt Carpenter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions for Matt Carpenter and Harrison Bader.   
 Q.  What's it like to play defense behind Jack Flaherty when he's keeping you guys engaged as much as he does?  
HARRISON BADER: Super engaged, like you said. He hits his spot. In terms of the overall plan, especially in center field, you can see how it's working and everything, doesn't miss too often. From that standpoint it's good. The plan works really well.   
MATT CARPENTER: I think more than anything we behind just appreciate how much he competes and how much he prepares. This is a guy who tied for first amongst anybody I've ever played with as far as competitive spirit and preparation.   
It's a lot of fun to go out there and battle with somebody that you know is giving every ounce of everything they can to have success.   
 Q.  Matt, just thinking ahead to Sunday, how would you describe kind of the atmosphere at Busch Stadium for playoff games?  
MATT CARPENTER: It's as good as any venue you'll see in sports. Just a crowd that is well known for being extremely knowledgeable about the game, cares, very passionate, they're there from April to September. And then they get the opportunity to be rewarded for those October games. And they show up ready to cheer and ready to be excited.   
And it's just special. There's no better place than Busch Stadium in October.   
 Q.  Matt, for all the big playoff moments you've had in your career, with the way that Shildt is using the lineup right now, the spots you're going to be in are going to be exclusively for big moments. Does that sort of concentrate that feeling and make it more intense here in the postseason?  
MATT CARPENTER: Yeah, for one, it's something that I enjoy. I certainly don't shy away from at all. And he's been very open with me about what my role is and how those moments are going to be given to me, and giving me plenty of time on the bench to get ready, keeping a heads-up.   
Like, there were two times earlier in the game yesterday that I thought I might take an at-bat and it ended up working out in the eighth.   
But, yeah, I'm enjoy those moments. I don't shy away from them, and love to do whatever I can to help us.   
 Q.  Back to Jack, how have you both seen him blossom into that competitive spirit? I know you've been around him plenty. So curious how that worked out.  
HARRISON BADER: Yeah, I'm relatively close with him especially coming up through the system with him, spent a lot of time with him on the field and off the field.   
So I feel like earlier in the year, he just -- there was always like that one inning where something kind of, not exploded, but things kind of transpired a little bit and kind of start to roll a little bit.   
And when he's out of the game, and I've always kind of said: If you just have the ability to just, I guess, not have that happen and keep that focus. And that's all he's done this past second half. And just to see that and see -- because you never really figure anything out in this game. You're always working, you're always gathering knowledge, whatever it may be.   
So his ability to just consistently get better and work towards where he's at now, it's just awesome -- so not only as a friend but also as a teammate, to see him shut those innings down when things might get a little chippy I guess, to see him push through that and work on that mental side, it's awesome. It's all you could ask for.   
MATT CARPENTER: The biggest thing I've noticed about Jack and how he's grown up into what we've seen, especially the second half, is my first impression of him, the first time I ever saw him in spring training is this is a guy who has a ton of emotion and very passionate worker and very competitive.   
And the biggest thing that I've seen him do over the last year, especially in the second half, is channel his emotion, his competitive spirit, and use it to his advantage.   
I think early on we saw his first couple of starts in the big leagues in his rookie year, a guy who could sometimes let that emotion get the best of him. And emotion in this game, especially in the postseason, can be pivotal, can be something that you can really channel and use to your advantage.   
And I think that's what we've seen with Jack. He's done such a good job of channelling that emotion, competitive spirit, into success.   
 Q.  Carp, to follow up on that, do you see that same kind of learning curve over the years, as much as you've been with Carlos Martinez? Have you seen that same kind of thing with him and how he kind of reins in his emotion?  
MATT CARPENTER: Yeah, I think it's evident with every player that plays this game long enough; you either do that or the game gets the best of you. I think that Carlos has done a good job of being able to rein back some of his emotion on the field and channel his energy as well.   
And I think that's what the great ones do, as time goes on, is they figure out a way to use what their God-given ability, the things that they're born with, which high-energy guys with a ton of passion out there, the guys that are able to control that and use it to their advantage have a lot of success in this game. Carlos has done a good job of that as well.   
 Q.  Harrison, can you describe what you've seen from Flaherty's connection to Cardinal history and the greats of the past? He tweets about it and talks about it sometimes to us. Have you noticed that, too?  
MATT CARPENTER: What a question.   
 Q.  We'll see the answer.  
HARRISON BADER: Connections to Cardinals history.   
 Q.  Bob Gibson, Adam Wainwright, some of the great starters that he's now channelling?  
HARRISON BADER: That's a great question. Obviously I've never seen Bob Gibson pitch. I've just seen clips. I've seen Waino pitch a couple years now. I can't necessarily draw any comparisons physically, but what I can see, again, from the clips I have seen of Gibson and working with Waino the past couple of years is just, again, the passion and the level of focus behind those guys.   
Everybody has a different way of going about it in this game, whether you're on the defensive side or offensive side. So the biggest thing is just finding what works for you the best and being the best version of yourself, emotionally, physically. So with that said, the way those guys carry themselves --   
 Q.  I was going to say the word I should have said is an appreciation. Do you sense that he has an appreciation for the pitchers of the past?  
HARRISON BADER: Yeah, I mean I feel like we all do. We all respect -- especially in this organization, guys come back so often. They're always present in the clubhouse. We're always commemorating different players, whether it be with the Red Jackets or just some type of ceremony.   
We definitely do have an appreciation for it and just a tremendous amount of respect for our Cardinals history. So I hope I answered that adequately.   
MATT CARPENTER: I think Jack has a fondness and a mutual respect for Gibby and Carp specifically because their styles are similar. Jack pitches with a lot of anger, like a lot. It's respected. It's feared. As his career goes on it will become even more feared.   
And that's what Gibby and Carp are all about. I think that's kind of what you're saying, maybe.   
 Q.  Carp, when you first came on the scene with the Cardinals in the majors you had a role that was sometimes pinch-hit, sometimes play. It was a little bit like it is now. How different is how you prepare for that role and how different is your appreciation of that role now than, say, when you started?  
MATT CARPENTER: Yeah, my very first full season in the big leagues was pretty similar to the one, similar to how this one has played out for me. And I think the biggest difference is just the maturity of understanding the situations, how the bench is going to be used.   
I mean, my first year, I remember coming home after games and hadn't even -- didn't even get in the game and was more tired and emotionally drained and physically drained than I would if I would have played just because of how stressful and the high anxiety, being a rookie, not knowing what's going to happen, how is this game going to play out.   
I think the biggest thing, one of the reasons I've been able to have some success in this role is I've prepared and ready for every situation. I'm one step ahead, if not on the same page, with Shildty and every move he makes.   
So having that experience is critical in that role because it's not an easy job. Playing off the bench for anybody, myself, Jose Martinez, all of our guys that do it, it's a very -- it can be a very stressful tough job, and having that experience in 2012 certainly helps.   
 Q.  Harrison, the other center fielder in this series is kind of a lightning rod today for admiring home runs, et cetera. MLB has this whole campaign, We Play Loud, you're from that generation of player. What do you think of that question, that style of play, admiring home runs, et cetera?  
HARRISON BADER: Good question. I do like the campaign for sure. I think it's good because there's so much emotion involved in this game. And you respect your opponent, of course. But the motivation for players and where the emotion comes from really does come from wanting to do well for your teammates and always rooting for your teammates.   
So being loud for them, appreciating the level of competition, it's never out of disrespect. So with that said, that's my mindset. So every ounce of joy that comes from a win out here, any big play, it is loud because of all the emotions that are tied to it, because it is a team effort, especially the way the game's kind of developed and specialty out of the pens what not.   
There's so many roles that players are plunged into. So just the level of support that we all have for each other is important. And I think a good way of doing that, again, is to be loud and show emotion and be happy. Because it's a thrill to go out there playing.   
It's my first atmosphere to be here and see the chop and whatever, it's cool. I'm happy to be part of it. I'm just going to go out there and be loud for my teammates.   
 Q.  Carp, when you were starting over the past couple of weeks when Kolten was hurt, we talked about Jose leading that bench mafia. We asked him then if he has to jump you back in when things change. Do you have to get jumped back in to bench mafia, or do you get your spot back?  
MATT CARPENTER: I guess it was reserved for me. So I just slide right back into it.   
 Q.  Matt, looking ahead to Game 3 a little bit. It's going to be a pretty familiar scene at Busch Stadium in the sense Waino is on the plate and Yadier is behind the plate. You've been around them as much as anybody. Can you expound on their relationship and how you've seen it evolve over the years?  
MATT CARPENTER: Those two have been part of a lot of big games, a lot of special games. I think I read something the other day, this is going to be Waino's first postseason start in five years, which is hard to believe that it's been that long.   
But if there's any person in that locker room that you know is going to be prepared and ready for that moment, it's Adam. He's just a special guy. Obviously we know what Yadi is and who he is and what he brings to the table and the postseason moments he's had. And Waino is right there up there with him, as far as the big moments and going out there.   
Both those guys, there are certain guys in that locker room that you just get a sense of peace and knowing that we've got a chance to win today.   
And Adam's certainly at the top of that list. And getting to see him go out there and compete and do it with Yadi behind the plate certainly brings back a lot of good memories and hopefully we'll build some new ones.   
 Q.  Harrison, you were asked about Acuña last night. It's been a big story especially for the Atlanta media. We know 90 feet in the postseason is huge. Is that play as big of a deal in y'alls eye as the opponent, did it impact the game as much as we're talking about it in the media when he didn't hustle out of the box on what should have been that double?  
HARRISON BADER: I just like to always keep my head in our clubhouse. That's for them to kind of worry about and focus on. I don't have a comment to make on it.   
It just goes to show you regardless of the situation, whether it's that situation or something else, every run matters. Every play matters, especially when you're fighting for your life so much in this. So with that said, it's not to add any pressure to anybody, but it's just the reality of the situation. You just always have to play the game the right way. That's all I have to say about that.   
MATT CARPENTER: Just to echo that, this is the biggest stage that this game is played on. Everything is under a microscope, every pitch, every play, every base running mistake, both good or bad. So knowing that, you've got to be prepared to accept anything that happens, whether it's positive or negative.   
And we're very adamant in our clubhouse about playing hard, playing the right way, doing the little things, and that's what wins ballgames at the end of the day. So we're going to go out there and continue to do that.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT