SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 27, 2018
DJ Trahan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What a heck of a finish.  Birdie, par, eagle, birdie to shoot 5-under par.  How about that.  Right now you're tied for third.
DJ TRAHAN: Yeah.  Well, obviously that's an amazing finish.  I just kind of scraped it along today.  I really didn't have my best stuff tee to green.  Fortunately for me I never got myself into too much trouble.  I just wasn't hit it all that great.  I just managed to get it around.
And then obviously hit a nice tee ball on 15, and that was a pretty easy birdie, just a chip and a putt.
And then 17 was obviously an amazing surprise whenever you hole-out on a par-4.
And then 18, again, I wasn't in a good position in the right rough there and just was able to judge the lie perfectly and hit an unbelievably good shot to about, I don't know what that was, eight or nine feet.  The putt went right in the middle, and that was really the only putt I made today.
Like I said, I didn't hit it well, but I was able to get balls on the green.  Just basically two-putted myself to death most of the day and somehow caught fire at the end, which was amazing.  Certainly helped a lot to be 4-under in the last four holes.
Q. Exactly.  You may need something even better tomorrow.  Seems like Cameron Champ is 17-under right now.
DJ TRAHAN: Is he really?  I didn't even look at the leaderboard honestly, not once today.  He's obviously shooting nothing.  Yeah, unless he decides to come back to the field, somebody is going to have to run hard to catch him.
That's really good golf.  I mean, what was he, 9-under starting the day?  Yeah, that's amazing golf right there.  Needless to say, someone is going to have to shoot something good to catch him.
Q. Magic with that 9-iron on 17, and then another really good shot on 18.  Walk us through the final two holes.
DJ TRAHAN: Well unfortunately I didn't hit my tee balls where I needed to so I was extremely lucky to get what I did out of it.  I was just in the pine straw on 17 and drew a nicely.  It was a perfect distance for a 9-iron.  I needed to hit a little cut around a tree limb and absolutely hit it perfect.  As soon as I hit it I thought it was going to be a good shot.  It disappeared before I even know it.  That was a great surprise.
And then I hit a beautiful 8-iron out of the right rough on 18 to about eight feet and was able to get that putt to go.  So it was very great finish for me today.
Q. Some good memories on moving day.  You want to secure a top 10 finish here because you want to be able to play next week.  If you don't, how are you going to treat this off-season?  What kind of vibes go into this time of year knowing you want to be able to play but there are few chances left?
DJ TRAHAN: Yeah, definitely.  You know, I've been really just focusing on day to day for my golf game and it's been getting better.  I've just been trying to work on that, and that's kind of been my vibe.  It's been a struggle for probably six or seven years for me.  I was in a bad place in a lot of ways, physically, mentally, and I feel like I'm starting to come out of that.
That it's a feeling.  I kind of just keep trying to build on that every day.  And those are my vibes.  I can't really try to look too far ahead.  I think I just need to focus one day at a time, and that's been working for me.
I think this is four cuts in a row for me and I just feel like I'm steadily progressing in the right direction.  A lot of people say you don't think the mind can really get in the way, but it's definitely been a hindrance for me.  I'm just really happy to feel like I'm coming out the other end of it finally.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT