LOUISIANA TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 1, 2016
Ryan Higgins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








UTEP - 7, Lousiana Tech - 28
Q. Ryan, you've got a guy like Trent Taylor on your roster on your side of the ball, does it sometimes become maybe a little bit of a curse that you go to him so often, not that you forget about the other guys but that you rely too much on him?
RYAN HIGGINS: You could say that, definitely.  There are times when -- it's hard to not go over there because there's coverages or they will try to do something extra, and I mean, and I'll still beat it.
He's kind of like, if you've got so many defensive players over there or there are certain coverages or keys that you're looking for, he's kind of like a rule breaker, because you know he can still probably get open, and at times, that can hurt me, if you kind of focus in on him too much and try to make something happen.  But I mean, he's just -- he's a special player and it's tough not to go to his side.
Q. Do you think that may have had something to do with you guys stalling out a little bit?
RYAN HIGGINS: I think a big part of it was they were doing a good job of showing like a zero coverage, and really bringing pressure and as soon as we checked out of it, they would check out or they would drop.  They were doing a good job of mixing it up and we really didn't know what to expect.  Of course, play clock was an issue because if we took a little too long getting the play in, we had to change whatever protection or whatever play and by the time we did that, they change.
They did a good job, especially in that third quarter.  We should have been able to handle it and we should have been better prepared for that but they did a good job of really kind of throwing a wench in our offensive system.
Q. What effect did Jarred Craft, the two drives --
RYAN HIGGINS: That was big.  That was a huge spark.  That's exactly what we needed.  It was just, I don't know, it just kind of got everybody back in the like, hey, that's all we needed.  It was the right amount of juice we needed to take care of business and realize that it's a fight, but we've still got the upper hand and we need to put them away.
Q. The last touchdown with Trent, did you find an opening and got it to him or was it drawn up like that?
RYAN HIGGINS: I wish it was drawn up like that.  It was a playing designated left.  We had a nice little concept set up.   Didn't work out for the coverage, whatever, the routes weren't there, and I just was going to buy some time.  Caught him in my vision at the end and he does a great job with, what we call scramble drill and always being able to -- if he's short, go deep, or whatever.  And he does a great job of finding open spaces, like he did in that first drive when he stopped in the middle of the field.  He has got great awareness and he knew where I was going, and I was able to see him and we made something happen.
Q. With what Trent was saying, did it feel like -- as close as it was --
RYAN HIGGINS: For sure.  We again, just like last week, shot ourselves in the foot a couple times.  And credit to UTEP; they did a great job with mixing up their coverages and as far as the pressures.  It threw us off for a couple drives for sure, but again, just we didn't have as many opportunities because of an offense like they run and just draining the clock.  We didn't take advantage of the few times that we should have and make this game not seem as close.
Q. On the sideline, a little bit of discomfort -- how are you feeling after the game compared to last week?
RYAN HIGGINS: As far as my body as a whole, I feel a lot better than last week.  The groin -- just a pain tolerance issue.  My groin's killing me, but I've got a high pain tolerance.  It's not a big deal.
Q. Do you think it's limiting you in any way?
RYAN HIGGINS: Sometimes I feel like it, but if a play breaks down, or if I have to pull it or if I'm running, I don't even think about it or notice it.  But when the play is over, yeah, I feel it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT