NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINAL: SHARKS v BLUES
May 20, 2016
Kyle Brodziak
Carl Gunnarsson
Alexander Steen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: Questions for Alexander Steen. 

Q. Was that game as bad as it looked, better than it looked? 
ALEXANDER STEEN: I think obviously we're going to look at the tapes today, make some adjustments for tomorrow. We feel like San Jose has been doing a good job of pressuring us, taking away our space in certain areas of the ice. It's up to us to look at it today, and we will, put together a plan for tomorrow. 

Q. The fourth line looked very effective last night. What were they able to do that the other lines weren't able to?
ALEXANDER STEEN: I think we started well last game. I think we came out on page with what we wanted to do. After the first goal, it felt like we kind of got off page a little bit. 
That line with Brodie and those guys did a good job of maintaining the same game plan, whereas the other three lines kind of got pressured into changing the game a little bit. 
For us, we need to make sure that we stay with a consistent effort whether we're up or down in the games. 

Q. The things you need to do, are they clear? Are you still trying to figure this out?
ALEXANDER STEEN: Obviously we looked at the game tape today. Like I said, we'll make adjustments for tomorrow, be a lot better in those areas. That will change the outcome. 

Q. Hitch said he was going to sleep on the goaltending decision. Second time he's done that. As a player, how do you view that? Is there anything that either goalie brings or do you look at it as they're both good goaltenders at this point?
ALEXANDER STEEN: They've been the best part of our team all season. The lineup is the coach's decision. For us players, we've had tremendous play from both goaltenders. 

Q. Not to get into debating the two goaltenders, but when you have a guy like Jake that can move the puck, can that help out the offense, get things moving from the back end?
ALEXANDER STEEN: Both goalies obviously have a little bit different playing styles. They're there to stop the puck, not spring our offense. 

Q. Someone asked Hitch about being down in the series. He said, It's only 2‑1. Do you look at it as a 2‑1 thing or is it more overwhelming? 
ALEXANDER STEEN: Yeah, it's a 2‑1 series. We talked about this all playoffs, how these are tough teams going at it. Same thing in this series. 
San Jose played us well these last two games. Like I said, they pressured us in certain areas where I think we're used to having a little bit more time and space. 
Last two games, obviously the outcome was more on their side. But moving forward, it's a 2‑1 series. We got a big game coming up tomorrow. Right now the focus is on adjusting our game. We're the ones that need to adjust a little bit more than them, go back at them tomorrow. 

Q. Can you share those areas without giving too much away? 
ALEXANDER STEEN: (Laughter). 

Q. Typically do you like a head‑to‑head matchup, a specific assignment?
ALEXANDER STEEN: Yeah. I mean, we've been doing it pretty much the whole playoffs. It's nothing that's new. 

Q. How challenging is it being matched? Last game was a little different. 
ALEXANDER STEEN: Again, I think the difference in the top line compared to other lines is the puck speed as opposed to the foot speed. 
They play a quick game through chemistry and puck movement. You have to be positionally sound all the time, make sure that you're on top of them, almost a step ahead of them in the chess game. 

Q. Hitch said last night, for young players, to paraphrase, you have to go through the playoffs to learn how to be in the playoffs, need to learn the lessons. Did it take you a while to learn these lessons when you were a younger player?
ALEXANDER STEEN: What lessons are you talking about? 

Q. I think he was referring to the sacrifice, physically how hard it is. 
ALEXANDER STEEN: I think experience. The only way you get playoff experience is by playing. It's like with everything else, right?

Q. How taxing was it to play back‑to‑back seven‑game series against really good opponents? Maybe the narrative that's beginning to make its way is maybe you are running out of gas. 
ALEXANDER STEEN: I don't think so. After the last series, we had a few days to rest the bodies and get ready for this series. That's not an issue for us. 
I think the way we've played these last two games has kind of played into their hands a little bit. They made some adjustments after Game1.
Like I said, positionally we were very good last game. I felt like we were forcing pucks. We weren't as composed as we had been in prior series and in Game1. Kind of almost fueled their game plan as opposed to helping ourselves. 

Q. When people talk about fatigue, the appearance of fatigue, is it because you're not in sync?
ALEXANDER STEEN: Different games. Game1, we have the lead. We play a different game than Game2 and 3. We're chasing the score. They're able to play a little bit differently than had it been a game when we were up. 

Q. Were the adjustments you had to make between Game3 and 4 different than the adjustments you had to make between Game2 and 3?
ALEXANDER STEEN: Yeah, I think so. I think that's fair to say. 
Thank you. 
THE MODERATOR: Questions for Carl Gunnarsson. 

Q. What adjustments do you think you guys need to make?
CARL GUNNARSSON: No big things. Just minor tweaks. We talked about some stuff before last night's game. I think we just didn't really do it. 
Tonight we'll take a look at some video and try to figure out what we can change. We'll see after tonight. 

Q. Are these new adjustments or... 
CARL GUNNARSSON: It's not going to be like any big things. We just got to stick to our game, then figure out how do they forecheck, why do we get hemmed in our own zone, just minor stuff. Do we go out that side or that side? It's going to be smaller things like that. 
Whatever we need to do, I don't think it's going‑‑ we made adjustments, too, in the other series. It worked out well for us. So we just got to be able to get back to our game here. 

Q. Are minor adjustments going to be enough?
CARL GUNNARSSON: Yeah, I think so. I mean, no one's happy about last night. But there were some good parts in it. We had some good periods. 
We just got to maintain that. We just got to keep on playing the way we do during those minutes. But that's a tough thing, too. We're playing a pretty good team, as well. It's not going to be easy. 

Q. What surprised you about your performance, or maybe the Sharks and their performance?
CARL GUNNARSSON: More us. We kind of knew how they were playing, tried to get ready for that. I think we're more surprised that we haven't found our game, played to our ability yet. Even though we had bad games in the other series, we found our game, got back to it quicker than we're doing right now.

Q. How much of that is San Jose and how much of that is you guys?
CARL GUNNARSSON: That's a tough question. Is it, were they good or were we bad? It's both ways, I guess. 
Thank you. 
THE MODERATOR: Questions for Kyle Brodziak. 

Q. (No microphone.)
KYLE BRODZIAK: I thought as a line, we went in with a clear focus of what we wanted to accomplish. Yeah, we were just playing and enjoying the opportunity. I think those guys came in with a lot of energy, a good, positive attitude. Yeah, we were able to feed off each other. 

Q. Were you able to stick with the game plan more so maybe than the other lines were?
KYLE BRODZIAK: No, I don't know if you want to say that. I think when we got a chance to get on the ice, we wanted to contribute. 
Like I said, those guys came into the lineup and provided a lot of energy. Yeah, we're going to look to do the same tomorrow. 

Q. What do Dmitrij and Magnus bring to that group?
KYLE BRODZIAK: I think we want to play a simple game. We understand we're not going to get a lot of easy ice out there. I think our goal as a line is to find ways to get the puck into their end, yeah, force them to create mistakes. 
I thought we did a fairly good job of that. But we got to do it again. 

Q. Certain desperation about tomorrow night's game knowing you have to beat them three times in a row if you don't get tomorrow?
KYLE BRODZIAK: Definitely our team has to play as if our lives are on the line. Nothing has come easy for us so far in the series. I don't think we can expect anything to change tomorrow. 
Yeah, our desperation level is going to have to go up, for sure. I think we're recognizing that as a group. Yeah, hopefully we can bring our best, put our best foot forward tomorrow. 

Q. Kyle, not sure which goalie is going to start tomorrow. What are the different things they both bring? What do you think if someone new draws into the series?
KYLE BRODZIAK: I think either way our group has all the confidence with whoever's in net tomorrow. Obviously Moose has been the backbone of our team for the entire playoffs, a big part of the year. You look back early in the year when Snake had the chance to run in the net, he did a great job for us. We're fully confident with him back there, as well. 
Yeah, it's a coaching decision. Whichever way it goes, we'll be fully confident with them back there. 

Q. Can a change affect the team? Can it push you guys?
KYLE BRODZIAK: Yeah, you never really want to have to rely on a goalie change to have to push your team. But, yeah, we're in the situation we are right now. Whatever way the coaches decide to go with that, we're going to have to just focus on what we need to do. 

Q. When you were watching video, are you focusing on things that went well or things that you screwed up?
KYLE BRODZIAK: I think you have to look at a bit of both. Understanding what they're doing, which is making it difficult for us, and at the same time looking at what we're doing when we're having success and making it difficult on them. 
Yeah, I think you have to take both sides into account, figure out what's working, try to get to that result as many times as you can. 

Q. How do you slow down their breakout?
KYLE BRODZIAK: It's not necessarily slowing down their breakout, I think it's feeding into their transition that's been a problem for us. When we get the puck into their zone, against the end wall, I think we've had success in making it difficult for them. 
It's maybe when we're getting a little impatient, trying to force things, force plays that aren't there, that feeds into their transition a little bit too much. 

Q. Upshall had some maintenance days, battling through things. Pretty impressive. 
KYLE BRODZIAK: Yeah, for sure. At this time of year, everybody's battling through something. Yeah, he's done a good job of not making that a focus. He's played well, and obviously had to deal with whatever he's dealing with. 
Yeah, it's definitely tough. Everybody I'm sure on both sides is dealing with something right now. But he's done a really good job of battling through it. 

Q. You talk about not wanting to feed their transition. You want a guy like Robby Fabbri, some of your skilled players, wanting to make plays? You don't want them to bottle up?
KYLE BRODZIAK: Obviously you want guys making plays if they're there. But we're playing a team that's very well structured. The plays aren't always going to be there. When they're not there, you have to respect the fact that they're not there, approach it a different way. 
I think, you know, sometimes it's difficult for a player who wants to make plays to do the unselfish thing and just put the puck behind him and try to go to work that way. 
I think it's just the commitment level that I think our guys definitely have, and we're going to look forward to doing it a little more tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT