WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC: ROUND ONE
March 8, 2006
Alex Cintron
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.  Well, first of all, Alex, I'd like to ask you while first of all, this was a very surprise change for us, as I'm sure this change is also a surprise for you, as well, how do you feel about the Diamondbacks, leading them, which is a very competitive team?  What is this new opportunity you have now?  What's the difference? 
 ALEX CINTRON:  I'm really excited to go to Chicago.  I think this is a great opportunity for me to win.  I think it's a winning team.  They're going another direction.  They're a young team, they're thinking about the future.  I also know he's going to give me a chance to play second, short and third base.  I'm backing up (Juan) Uribe and (Tadahito) Iguchi, as well.  So I'm really excited to go to Chicago. 
 Q.  As you may know.  Some of the players decided not to participate in this tournament, as we have seen here, that this tournament itself is indicative of some good opportunities later on in the future.  What is your take? 
 ALEX CINTRON:  Yes, it's going to help me out, coming here and playing with the Puerto Rican team.  The guys who don't play, it's their opinion, but I think that's going to help me out and help out a lot of people playing this tournament like that.  I've got to play hard, I've got to play good.  There's a lot of scouts, a lot of coaches.  There's a lot of people watching TV, watching all those games, and it's going to open doors to go somewhere else.  No matter what happens I'm excited to be here and playing hard. 
 There it's different because it's one at-bat, two at-bats and go home.  Here you've got to play hard because you're representing your country. 
 Q.  You began your career with Arizona and you moved up to the major leagues.  This, of course, is a transition for you.  Is there anything, any part of this, that is somewhat sentimental that you are feeling, the sensation of leaving something behind with this change? 
 ALEX CINTRON:  I'm going to feel a little disappointed because they trained me with the Diamondbacks for ten years.  I'm going to feel real weird going to somewhere else, but this is a business and I can't do anything else.  I'll move on. 
 Q.  Do you know Ozzie Guillen, and this change in this team, what is that take? 
 ALEX CINTRON:  Yes, I know Ozzie Guillen.  I think one of the reasons I'm going to the White Sox, it's a lot different, the American League, because they use a DH and they use a lot of switch and pinch-hit-style game, which is different.  I've got to adjust myself to the American League. 
 Q.  I'd like to ask you a question.  Obviously you're going to be playing with the Chicago White Sox during the next season, but what will happen afterwards?  Could you talk to us about some of the details of the terms and conditions of your contract?  How are you going to be, like more of a free agent? 
 ALEX CINTRON:  I just signed for one year, so I think it'll be one year for the White Sox right now.  I'm going to try to help them to win.  They're just looking for one year right now.  I don't know what's going to happen next year, and I'm going to play hard.  I'm healthy, I'm going to help the team to win and they've got to make a decision next year whether to trade me or I'm still with the team.  Hopefully I'll stay with the White Sox for a long time.  I know Iguchi is a free agent and could make a lot of money, so we'll see what happens, but for right now I'm staying with the Chicago White Sox. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT