NHL STANLEY CUP FINAL: PREDATORS VS PENGUINS
June 7, 2017
Pekka Rinne
Roman Josi
P.K. Subban
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions.
Q. P.K., or anyone, do you feel really well rested?  Are you tired after a long season?  What is motivating you till the end?  Do you feel you're hungrier for the Stanley Cup than Pittsburgh because you haven't won one and they have?
P.K. SUBBAN: I had about six weeks off this season, so I'm well rested.
ROMAN JOSI: I think we're in the Stanley Cup Final.  Both teams are pretty hungry.  Yeah, our schedule has been pretty good these playoffs.  The first round, I mean after a week off, definitely helps us with the rest.
Q. I know the series is tied 2-2, you've out-shot the Penguins in every game.  Do you feel you're in control of this series?
PEKKA RINNE: I mean, we're playing really well these four games.  I don't know.  I mean, it's a dangerous team.  Two teams that skate well up and down the ice.  But I feel like we're pretty happy how many chances we've created per game.
I mean, those two first games, that was the one thing we were a little bit disappointed.  We generated a lot of chances.  They didn't get that many, but still they won those two games.  At home we played two strong games.
Q. Roman, what is it like for you and for Ryan knowing that P.K. and Ekholm are right behind you when you get off the ice, and can produce just as much offensively and defensively?  P.K., the same thing on the other end.
ROMAN JOSI: Well, I think it's a big strength of our team, having that much depth.  I think it's not just us four, it's Webby and Irvin, too.  They're doing a great job.  They've been huge for us in the playoffs.
Yeah, I think not just on the defense, the forwards, too.  We have guys going down, guys stepping up.  Yeah, it's been a huge strength for us all playoffs, the depth we have on the team.
P.K. SUBBAN: I agree with Jos.  I think it's throughout our lineup, throughout our D corps.  A lot of talk always comes with Ecky, Jos, myself and Elly.  After those four, we have guys that are capable of stepping in.
A good example of that is when we had injuries, Maty was playing in our top four, Webby at some points in the season.  They did a great job.
Even outside of our lineup, Bits and Huntsy, they can come in and do well.  If we do make mistakes, we're not at our best, that's why we have the best goaltender in the league.
Q. Roman, your line has been responsible for watching Sidney Crosby through the first four games of the series.  You always talk about it's a five-man process to play defense.  How would you say that group has done against guarding Sid?
ROMAN JOSI: Well, obviously Sid is a world-class player.  I mean, he doesn't need a lot of chances.  I think you saw the last game on the breakaway, he knows how to put the puck in the back of the net.
But, yeah, it's not just me and Elly defending him, it's five guys helping out.  I think our forwards have done a great job of helping us out, coming back, defending, as well as playing offensively.  It's been one of our strengths.  Most of our offense actually comes from playing well defensively.
With Sid, you just got to be aware of where he is on the ice for 60 minutes.
Q. P.K., you've had some family around during the Final.  What has it meant for you to have them on this journey for you?
P.K. SUBBAN: (Indiscernible) whole family.  It's been exciting.  It's a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to live out a dream of winning a Stanley Cup, playing on this stage.  It's been enjoyable not just for my family, but I'm sure for all the players, on the other side as well.  I'm sure everybody wants to be involved, be at the game, enjoy that experience.  I know for my family it's been really exciting.
Q. Pekka, what is it like to reach this stage of your career, have an opportunity to play two out of three to win the Stanley Cup?
PEKKA RINNE: Amazing.  Obviously you don't want to look back yet.  Been playing for a long time, never had this opportunity.  It means everything to me right now.  Just living my dream right now.
Q. Pekka, you've known Fiddler a long time.  What is it like to have him back in that locker room as a role player guy?  What does he bring to the mix in that room?
PEKKA RINNE: I think for us, we have a pretty young team.  I think any time you have a veteran's presence, it kind of calms everybody down.  Yeah, I know him from a long time.  Really solid player.  Adds a lot of depth for us.  Brings a really solid center iceman for our team.
I mean, he's been in and out of the lineup.  He's been a great acquisition for us.
Q. Roman, in Game 1 and 2, you had those brief flurries where they scored, things got a little crazy, it got away from you.  Those were your first two Stanley Cup Final games.  How much more prepared do you feel headed into an enemy environment for Game 5?
ROMAN JOSI: Well, I think we were well prepared for the first two games even.  Like we said before, I mean, their team is so dangerous.  They play with a lot of speed.  Yeah, you really have to be aware of them for 60 minutes.  Obviously we had a couple minutes where we didn't do that.  Guys gave up some odd-man rushes.  We did a pretty good job especially in Game 3 and Game 4.  We still gave up some odd-man rush, and Pekks made some unbelievable saves.
Playing a team like Pittsburgh, they're always dangerous.  You got to be aware of them for 60 minutes.
Q. Pekka, you played behind a lot of good defensemen in your time in Nashville.  What is unique about this year's group, how it stacks up to the other groups you've played behind?
PEKKA RINNE: I think, in my time, this organization has based their foundation on these guys all the time, as long as I've been there, our D men, they've been the core of our team.
To me, I think that's the thing.  Every single coach I've had, David Poile been there for such a long time, I think he's always known the fact that defense is your best offense.  It's no different.  I mean, this group is really special.  I mean, everybody knows, everybody talks about them.  They can create so much.  It's really unique players, not only these two, but the whole defensive corps.  For me, obviously it's great to be playing behind these guys.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT