NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINAL: DUCKS VS PREDATORS
May 15, 2017
P.K. Subban
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Now that you've had a chance to think about it, to know you're coming home for two games and how much success you've had so far in the postseason, how encouraging is that?
P.K. SUBBAN: It's just encouraging to be home.  To sleep in your own bed and see family and spend a couple of days here obviously helps.  So happy to be home.  But we did what we wanted to do.  We went there to get one game and we had the opportunity to get two.  It didn't happen.  But now we're back home on home ice.  We want to take advantage of that.
Q. In the big picture, as you say, I'm sure it was a little disappointing to lose that one yesterday, but still do you feel good about the split and coming back to a place where you've won five in a row here in the Playoffs?
P.K. SUBBAN: Yeah, I mean, prior to now, nothing else matters, right?  It's just moving forward.  And it's a good hockey club that we played in Anaheim.  And it's a good hockey club that's coming into our building.
And it's going to take our best hockey of the year to have success.  And we know that.
Q. As the Playoffs have unfolded, how has your experience in previous Conference Finals served not just you but your teammates?
P.K. SUBBAN: I think you know what going into the Playoffs we knew we didn't have maybe as much Playoff experience as some other teams.  But I think that a lot of guys have gained experience so far.  And composure seems to be a word that we've been using a lot.
And I think we've been tested and we've responded well.  So for us we've worked hard to put ourselves in this position and now we have to go and do the work.
And great opportunity here at home.  And like I said, we want to take advantage of that.
Q. A lot of people are talking about the Joey Kesler confrontation.  Is the way Kesler handling him the ultimate compliment to how Joey is playing?
P.K. SUBBAN: Joey is one of the best centermen in game right now.  And I think if people didn't know that before the Playoffs they know that now in terms of how he plays.  A 200 foot game.  And what he brings.  It is a compliment when you get that type of attention.  But in our locker room, we're focused on our group and what we need to do as a team to have success.
And it's not just about one player, whether it's Joey or myself or Pekks or Fish or anybody.  It's about us as a group and how we prepare for our next game.  Like I said, there's a lot of battles.  The general battle of two teams going at it there's a lot of one-on-one battles and matchups and we've got to do our best job to do the matchups and we've done a pretty good job so far.
Q. Any backdown in terms of Joey, you like to see that part of his game as well?
P.K. SUBBAN: Yeah, he competes every shift and he's a big part of our team and a leader up front in terms of like I said how he plays a 200-foot game.  He's really valuable to our hockey club and he brings that leadership up front.  We're going to need that to continue.  But not just from Joey, we need everybody.  And when you look at our success it's been based on our team not just on specific individuals and for Joey he has a job to do and he does it really really well and we're going to need him to continue that and he will.
Q. What do you expect tomorrow night from the crowd?
P.K. SUBBAN: I expect what I've seen so far.  It's the loudest building I've played in the NHL.  I can't say enough about our fan base and the community and the state of Tennessee and the city of Nashville on how they supported us through this run so far.  And I would expect that to continue.
Q. Speaking about matchups, the fact that you're back home, do you feel that you need to make adjustment and to play with that to get some guys away and to put some other guys in front of those matchups against them where you feel that the way the first two games went you could still go out on that same fashion?
P.K. SUBBAN: I have a few games in the NHL and a couple of games under my belt but I'm not going to try to be David Poile or Peter Laviolette.  I'm going to allow them to coach the team the way they feel we need to have success and just worry about my job.  It's tough enough already as it is playing against the best players in the world every night rather than thinking about our strategies.
I think that we'll have our meetings just like we do every day and every game to prepare ourselves for the game and for the first shift.  And our job now is to recover and get some rest and prepare our bodies to go to war.
Q. Just in regard to your birthday just passed.  What was your reaction when you saw the video that the kids from the staff and the children's hospital...
P.K. SUBBAN: Yeah, they've done that a couple of times where my heart's in my mouth and they've sent me a few videos.  I know they did that sort of like a hip hop video with one of my friends Cart and Al back in Toronto.  They sort of did that video for me with my parents and everybody and it was great.  They did another video for me on my birthday.  And it's pretty special to know that they're still thinking about me and not just me now they're thinking about our team and the organization and our team's success.
Pretty special.  But it's not just my birthday.  My sister's birthday today.  And Mother's Day.  And one of my friend's birthday, Chris O'Sullivan's birthday too.  Celebrating a lot.  But at this point in time you've got to stay focused on the game.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT