THE VIVENDI TROPHY WITH SEVERIANO BALLESTEROS
September 26, 2009
Thomas Bjorn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. How would you assess the position now at this stage?   
 THOMAS BJÖRN: Yeah, obviously not in a good position. We played for half the points and we are four points behind. I said to the boys, you know, if we can win the next half of the points the 9-5, then we have a playoff for it and that's what we've got to try and do. But they have got to keep going, and things are certainly not going our way, that's for sure.   
  
  Q. The third game was extremely disappointing for you.   
 THOMAS BJÖRN: It's very disappointing to see something like that. Our boys were doing all the right things and they were trying as hard as they could, and I feel sorry for them, because they felt very disappointed when they walked off the golf course. If they are feeling a lit bit tired the two of them, they will feel even more tired this afternoon.   
 We feel disappointed with what happened in the morning obviously. But again, you know, some people didn't perform. Some people did perform and didn't get the most out of it. But you know, we just have got to keep going.  
  
  Q. What can you say about that shot of Alvaro, it's so critical, the British team were on the green and he was first up.   
 THOMAS BJÖRN: Oh, it was brilliant. He's a quality player, and he'll learn a lot from this week, Alvaro. He'll mature a lot from playing these matches, and now he's played in all the matches, and that's important for him. So you know, he will mature a lot from it, and become better at it. You know, still when we look at the main objective of this, it is to prepare these guys for a Ryder Cup, and he could certainly be in the squad and be more comfortable in The Ryder Cup.   
  
  Q. Could be really interesting this afternoon now.   
 THOMAS BJÖRN: Yeah, they are motivated but they know they have got a lot of work to do, so we need to get out there and try to putt some blue on the board.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT