THE CELTIC MANOR WALES OPEN
June 4, 2009
Thomas Bjorn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THOMAS BJÖRN: I played nice all day to be honest. Made a couple of stupid bogeys early on and that didn't get the round going. But I hit some lovely shots on 14 and then a good drive on 15 up on the green and a lovely 7-iron into 16 and they gave me those three birdies in a row there. That kind of took the round to where I was really playing.
 So, it's nice. I played good, solid golf without being perfect, but good, solid golf. 

 Q. All the better to bounce back when you could have got down on yourself?
 THOMAS BJÖRN: Yeah, but it's that type of golf course. You've got to stand up and concentrate on every shot. There's nothing that gives you -- there's nothing that's given to you. Even the shorter holes, you've got to be very focused on what you're doing, because there's a lot of trouble out there. 
 So I stayed concentrated and focused all day and starting to feel more and more comfortable with what I'm doing.

 Q. Is it a good golf course with 2010 in mind?
 THOMAS BJÖRN: Definitely. It will certainly be interesting. There's a lot of interesting holes out there with those kind of pressures, so it will test a lot of guys, and that's what it's all about. When you come in on that back nine stretch, say 11 through 15, there's a lot of things that can go on on those holes. So it's going to be a wonderful venue. 
 It has a venue of, you can let 100,000 people all through the gate and they can all fit in here. It is going to make for a great atmosphere and just pray for the weather.

 Q. I'm sure you'd still love to be playing in that competition, but in the meantime you are a captain for the re-named Seve Trophy. Haven't had a chance to ask how you feel about that. 
 THOMAS BJÖRN: Good. I've been out here a long time. I always played in all the Seve Trophys that's been, and I'm looking forward to that. It's going to be an interesting event now I think. I think we can get a lot of the guys to play, and that's the important thing, so we can go from there. 

 Q. And Monty has actually said that he's looking at you potentially for a vice captaincy if you don't make the team. What were your thoughts on that?
 THOMAS BJÖRN: Well, that's 15 months away. Let's see what happens. There's no rush. Monty is the captain and he will take the guys that he feels comfortable with and feels they can do the job for him. If I'm one of them and I'm in the team room, I'll be happy to help. If I'm in the team, I'll obviously play and if he doesn't ask me, you know, good luck to everything he does. This tour is all about everybody standing behind their captain and trying to win that trophy back. 

 Q. A good round of golf became a very good round with five threes in a row from the 13th. What was the key to that?
 THOMAS BJÖRN: I just hit some good shots. To be honest 14 is always a testing hole on this golf course and I got away with a very good drive there and hit an 8-iron close. When you play the tough holes well, all of a sudden it's possible to shoot good numbers, and that's what I did today. I stuck in there. The round really wasn't going anywhere, and I was playing probably a little better than being 1-under. But I just stuck in there, and knowing there's a few birdie chances in the end, just hit good shots when I needed to and birdied the right kind of holes. 

 Q. Over recent weeks, you've come back to form; has it changed your attitude, your thinking on the course?
 THOMAS BJÖRN: I'm enjoying my golf again. I've had a hard time with it, not really being able to find my way on the golf course for a long time, and you get down on yourself because you want to do well. 
 You know, that's what I play golf for is to be in contention on weekends, and I have not been there for a long time. So I've gotten down on myself and found it very hard. 
 I'm just starting to enjoy myself on the golf course and really probably to some extent falling in love with the game again. That certainly helps when you get to a course and you're up there in a tournament and you're looking forward to it, and that's where I am at the moment. There was a moment there where I thought I would never do that again. 
 So I'm happy where I am in my golf and really looking forward to every day I'm out here.

 Q. Six weeks in a row, was that always the plan or has the form kept you going?
 THOMAS BJÖRN: No, that was always the plan, because I've not really been finding my way, I felt like I probably should go back to playing a little bit more tournaments and be out here and try and get the game sorted out. 
 Luckily for me I came out the first week and played really well in Spain and had a Top-5 finish and that's kept me going and that's kept the motivation up and I'm just looking every week to try to do better than I did the week before, and that's the way it's going at the moment. But I can also feel it needs to come to an end, so I'm looking forward to a couple of weeks off after this. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT