WGC CA CHAMPIONSHIP
March 22, 2007
Thomas Bjorn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Wonderful iron shots today, is that what pleased you most about your round?   
 THOMAS BJÖRN:  Yeah, I struggled a bit with a drive early on and I kind of kept myself going through a couple of good lies.  In the end it became a bit more comfortable.  I've just had four weeks off, so it's always going to be a little bit rusty.  Normally I would wake up on a day like this and say, "This is going to be a good day with wind like this."   
 But when you've had four weeks off, you kind of want to play your way into it.   
 But today I got a little bit lucky early on with a couple of lies, and from there it was pretty comfortable.  I felt good over what I was doing, and I worked hard with Pete the last couple of weeks and it seems to be working.   
 But the conditions today were tough, especially after four weeks off.   
  
  Q.  Usually you get to a venue a couple of days before the event and I saw you here on Sunday; was that because of the break?   
 THOMAS BJÖRN:  Yeah, I had a long break and did a couple of things, took a bit of a holiday and got away from the game.  Then started working back in England and saw what the weather forecast was going to be for the early part of this week in England, so I thought Florida would be a good place to get some work done and I got in and saw the golf course.   
 But with the rain last night and the rain this morning, it softened the golf course a bit because it was very, very firm and hard early in the week.  But it seems to be playing hard.   
  
  Q.  If the greens firm up how much more difficult will it get?   
 THOMAS BJÖRN:  It will be a lot more difficult.  They just relayed, and they were very, very firm Sunday and Monday.  And now it's just a little bit easier to get the ball started.  It's going to firm up, especially with these windy conditions.   
  
  Q.  Do you feel like your game is turning around, like you're going to be back to the Thomas Björn that we know and love?   
 THOMAS BJÖRN:  Yeah, it's been a couple of tough moments, and I just want to get back to playing my golf and do what I do best, and that's to get my nose in some big tournaments here and there.   
 You know, this is what I need, good rounds like this.  This will get me just a little bit more comfortable on the golf course.  It's not been the greatest the last couple of months, so it will make me feel more comfortable, but I still have a lot of work to do and 68 one day doesn't make everything.  But it's a good start for me and I'm building for the summer and that's the important thing for me.   
 Right now I need to go out and play some golf and enjoy shooting good numbers.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT