ABU DHABI GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 20, 2006
Thomas Bjorn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THOMAS BJORN:  It's been exactly what I thought it was going to be.  I played well, I played well yesterday and I played really, really well today and not really hole the things that I need to hole, but I found a lot of good things this week.  I found a new driver which is working well which is nice, a Callaway driver.
Q.  What club did you hit on the long par 4?
THOMAS BJORN:  I used my utility today and I hit a 3 iron.  It's just a long hole.  The fairway is pretty generous.
Q.  What loft does your utility club have?
THOMAS BJORN:  19.
Q.  So in simple terms for a layman, that would be slightly shallower than a 3 wood?
THOMAS BJORN:  Yeah, it's like a 5 wood, 2 iron.  Goes pretty much the same distance as a 5 wood or 2 iron wood, maybe a little bit shorter than the 5 wood.
Q.  The things that you did really, really well today, just give me a couple of examples.
THOMAS BJORN:  I drove the ball really well for most of the round.  I hit 16 greens in regulation.

You know, the golf is good enough    I'm not making that many mistakes.  I got a little bit unlucky on the last there, but I'm just not putting well enough at the moment.
Q.  Any 3 putts?
THOMAS BJORN:  No.  I'm just not holing the ones you need to hole, a lot of 8  to 10 putts, not holing any of them.

It's still a process.  I go out on the golf course and just play with what feels natural, but there's still a few things that needs to be done.
Q.  Is this what you expected?
THOMAS BJORN:  It's pretty much what I thought it would be.  I'm not really    I'm happy with the way I'm playing from tee to green.  If I hit it like that the rest of the year then everything will take care of itself.
Q.  You mentioned the other day for you to be a Top 10 golfer
THOMAS BJORN:  I'm not playing well enough these two days.  I should be somewhere    I should be double figures under par.  But, you know, sometimes the putter doesn't work and you don't get the most out of it, and that's just the way golf is.
Q.  How did you come by your new driver?
THOMAS BJORN:  I changed it over the winter.  I kind of knew that I had to try something different, and you know, I had a bit of time over winter and it works really well.

I spent a few days with Callaway this winter and it's worked out well.

I think the golf is good enough, so just keep on.



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT