WGC AMERICAN EXPRESS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 4, 2005
Thomas Bjorn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
Well, suddenly you end up in the hospital last week.
THOMAS BJORN:  Well, three days, and it was hard.  It was borderline for me to really get here, but I was just going to go here just to get slowly into the style of things again, but no expectations.  I was in a poor way.  I got a bit of bacteria in the blood vessels.  It just came on the Sunday slowly in the afternoon, and I was feeling not great in the morning.  I was all right during the round, and then when I finished I started feeling really poor and started freezing a lot, got a high fever, over 104, on Sunday night.  So I was in a bad way.

Three days in the hospital, and they kind of just got it under control.  And then I had a couple days at home just in bed, resting.  And I decided Sunday I was just going to go and make it a relaxing week.  Played nine holes yesterday, nine holes today and probably nine holes tomorrow, not really do a lot.
Q.  You went to hospital in London after  you flew down?
THOMAS BJORN:  I flew down and was really poor on the plane, felt really bad on the plane.
Q.  Did you go straight to the hospital from the plane?
THOMAS BJORN:  No, I went home.  And then at about    I saw my own doctor at about 8:00.  And then at midnight I had to call and ambulance I was in a really bad way. Thank God for doctors.
Q.  As you say, you were borderline about coming here?
THOMAS BJORN:  Yeah, I was borderline because it was a long trip.  More than anything, the trip is long.  I've got two weeks off after this, and it might be a good time for me to take off.  Because I do have two weeks off, I'll come over for the week and have a nice week and let the golf be whatever it is.
Q.  You probably have no expectations for anything this week?
THOMAS BJORN:  I'll just go and play golf this week.
Q.  It's a short field, so you can afford to
THOMAS BJORN:  You've got four rounds, and that's an important thing, as well.  You can kind of work your way into the golf tournament, start feeling like you're comfortable with your golf again.  When you pick up a golf club after that you feel like you've had six months off; you're stiff and your balance is gone and everything is just a bit different.  I'll just take it as an experience and have a bit of fun with it.
Q.  Do they know what caused it?
THOMAS BJORN:  I had a really severe case of tonsillitis, and they think it came from that, but they're not 100 percent sure.  They couldn't really tell.
Q.  I understand your brother lives out here, as well.  Are you staying with him?
THOMAS BJORN:  No, I'm staying in town.  He lives in Oakland.  He lives here with his family, and my parents are over visiting him anyway, and I've got Pernilla here, so it's just a nice week for us, just enjoy it.
Q.  What's your brother's name?
THOMAS BJORN:  Soren.
Q.  This tournament last year, you came close to winning this one, as well.  It got you back on the right track again, didn't it?
THOMAS BJORN:  Yeah, it did.  It's a good tournament.  It's a nice tournament for everybody.  You come here and you can enjoy your time here.  It's somewhat a relaxing week for most players because it's the 72 player field and you can just go and play.  And if you shoot 72 in the first round you're by no means out of it.  You've got to work your way into the golf tournament.  It's a good golf tournament and it's a good golf course, as well.
Q.  You have no expectations, but playing against the best players in the world does seem to bring out the best in you, as we saw at the U.S. PGA.
THOMAS BJORN:  Yeah, but this week really I'm just here.  I'm not looking for anything but just to play four rounds of golf and enjoy myself.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT