DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
March 4, 2005
Thomas Bjorn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THOMAS BJORN:  Very.  That's just about as good as I can play today from tee-to-green.  Everything was under control.  I struck it really well all the way around.  That was probably also as poor a day with the putter as it can be.  Shooting a 68 with a poor day on the greens is good golf.

It's one of those rounds where you feel like when you walk off you should and shoot 63, 64.  Didn't happen but obviously pleased with the way I'm playing.
Q.  I was watching you there and contrasting that with the feelings last year, times when you really wondered what the future was for your golf?
THOMAS BJORN:  I've played well for a long time now and I feel that my game has been coming on and I'm swinging it nicely.  That's an important factor for me always to feel comfortable with my golf swing.  I certainly feel like the last three or four weeks it's come together.

Yeah, I'm happy that I'm as competitive as ever and when I get that feeling, all the bad feelings go away and I can win golf tournaments.
Q.  You seem to be within grasp of that position at the top of world golf like you had; do you feel that way inside?
THOMAS BJORN:  I certainly feel I'm going in the right direction.  I certainly feel my goals are very, very good at the moment and I'm bound to play rounds where I don't feel things go my round and I can still shoot 2- or 3-under par.  I think that's the key to compete in world golf today; that you can go out there and not play your best and still shoot under par.
Q.  Putter just wasn't working out there today?
THOMAS BJORN:  I had big chances on 2, 3, 5, 6 that I don't make and then I hole one on 7.  I mean, I got chances from 12 and I got chances on 14 and a chance on 15 and a big chance on 18.  So there you go, you know if could be three or four shots better, you get what you deserve.  But I'm happy with the way I'm playing.  I really feel good about my golf and that's the important thing.
Q.  Can you make it up over the weekend?
THOMAS BJORN:  There's always going to be somebody out ahead, and you don't like to see those two names out ahead, no doubt about that.  But what can you do?  12-under over these two days is great, and 10-under is just as great.  You just have to say, well, they are playing their golf and you can't stop them if they keep playing like they are, it's going to be very difficult.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT