WGC AMERICAN EXPRESS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 1, 2004
Thomas Bjorn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
A nice way to finish because that 18th hole doesn't give you too many birdies.
THOMAS BJORN:   I didn't play as well today.  I kept myself in the round all the way, and then I just hit two wonderful shots on 17 and 18.

I had a wonderful 3-wood into 17 and then 4-iron in a strong left-to-right wind.  I guess that's every golfer's dream, to hit it like that.  That was nice finishing off with two birdies.  I kept myself in the round.  I didn't play as well as I did yesterday, but I'm very happy with the way it turned out.
Q.  I suppose you're not going to play well every day, and I suppose if you can at least get a score in, that's the main thing, isn't it?
THOMAS BJORN:  That's a very good sign, and it's taken me in the right direction.  Yesterday was a big step, but it might be an even bigger step because I didn't play my best but I still got a 69 out of it.  I'm very happy with what I did today again.  It was a little bit wobbly there in the middle, but in the end it turned out very, very good.
Q.  You've got Ken back on the bag and you're back with Pete Cowan.  How much are they factors in your rejuvination, if you'd like?
THOMAS BJORN:   I guess every golfer is guilty of sometimes trying to look for things that don't exist and trying to get themselves to another level, and I felt like I just needed to go back to people that -- they got me to that level I want to play at, and that was 2002 I was playing at a very high level.  I had Ken on the bag and I had Pete working out with me at that time, so I just felt like it was time for me to go back to that.  They had a big influence on where I've come this week and have had a lot of influence on where I've gotten to over the last few weeks.

We're working very hard and we're doing the right things, but it's nice to be out there with Ken.  It's almost like he was never away.  We feel good together, feel good around each other, and that's an important things, especially when you've gone through a hard time.
Q.  Keep it going through the weekend.  Thanks.
THOMAS BJORN:   Thanks.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT