SKY SPORTS BRITISH MASTERS
October 11, 2018
Thomas Bjorn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THOMAS BJØRN: I didn't feel like I needed to say anything to Matt in any way that I wouldn't normally do being Ryder Cup captain.  I know Matt was very close to making this team.  One of the great things about somebody like that is -- I saw a post from him on Monday after saying, 2020 starts now, this is where I want to be, and that shows a lot about his character, and the way he's been through it all has been great, and I just said to him, I'll always be there for him, but I was there for him before.
I had a vision of what this team should be and how I wanted it to -- that team that needed to go to France, and unfortunately at that moment in time Matt wasn't in it, but he was very, very close.  But that doesn't make Matt a worse golfer or anything.  I just love his attitude towards how he goes forward, and he'll be there in the future.
My Ryder Cup captaincy and all that now is behind everyone, and I'll move forward supporting every player of this Tour that has all that potential like somebody like Matt that has great potential to be a world star player.  I wish him all the best, and if he wants my advice and help, I'll be there for him.
Q. The captaincy is over, but you still feel that there's sort of a statesman role that you'll continue to play?
THOMAS BJØRN: Not really, but I've always been like that.  I've always been when youngsters come out and they push through -- a lot of new things is going to come Matt's way the next 12, 18 months.  He's going to go into major championships and with a completely different mindset, being a winner and a guy that can compete in the biggest events.  All things change, and I had great advice and great people around me that helped me through the early parts of my career in Seve and Bernhard and Ollie, and if we don't help these guys along -- in the end, we want successful European golfers, and that's how I see it, and if I can help him in any way, shape or form, I will, and if they don't want my help, great, go and do it on your own.  That's not what it's about.  But he's been brilliant all the way through the qualifying period and the time after, and I wish him all the best.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT