COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 26, 2017
Thomas Bjorn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Just get your thoughts on today's round?  
THOMAS BJÖRN: Yeah, it was certainly an early start.  No, I got off to a good start.  Kind of settled in the round, and no bogeys, which was nice.   
Yeah, I've not really seen this place like that.  It was a bit calm out there.  It almost became difficult because we're not used to seeing this golf course calm.  So it was a different type of golf on what is normally a very windy place.  Yeah, nice start and we go from here.   
 Q.  How easy was it to change your approach?  Obviously you're used to playing in the wind here.  
THOMAS BJÖRN: Yeah, you come here and practice days are really windy and Pro-Am was really windy, so you're getting used to that; it's the type of golf that you're going to need, and you wake up this morning and it's a completely different day.   
That makes for a little bit of a different approach, but it's easy to get ahead of yourself when it's like that.  Just stay patient and try and minimise mistakes on this golf course.  It's still a key for this place I think.  Succeeded in doing that today, which was a good start.   
 Q.  You're a former champion here, so you have good memories.  Are you envisaging some of those shots when you're out there?  
THOMAS BJÖRN: I don't know, it seems like a long time ago I won here.  But you obviously come to places where you've got good memories and there's a good feeling in the body when you get going, and that's probably the thing that you can draw on the most; that you know that you have a way of playing this golf course when you're on your game.  So it to some extent suits you.   
Obviously coming in, when you go further on into the weekend, that's nice to have in the bag.  But you've always got to get a start.  Thursday and Friday, you've kind of got to get off to a decent start and get yourself in position, and that's what it's all about.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT