BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 28, 2014
Thomas Bjorn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What are your thoughts on shooting a 66 to move right into contention? 
THOMAS BJÖRN:   I got a really good start and the delay kind of put me off a little bit.   A couple tough holes, 5 and 6, after the restart and just not really quite there.   But then I hit a really good shot into 9 and kind of eased things off a little bit and I finished well. 
It was a good day's work.   It was a lot tougher, the golf course.   I thought it played a lot longer but by the looks of the scoring it doesn't look like it was tougher. 
Certainly played a lot longer today, and you have to keep your awareness of what was going on out there.   No, pretty happy.

Q.   Presumably takes a little while to adjust when it's a considerably different course from what it had been the first two days. 
THOMAS BJÖRN:   Yeah, longer but the greens are holding better.   So it was a bit longer irons but it was easier to go at some flags today with the softness of the greens.   Good day's work.

Q.   Another round like that, you'll be nicely up there with an opportunity, won't you? 
THOMAS BJÖRN:   Yeah, I think so.   You know, it's very rare you come across as tight a leaderboard as this one, so you've got to go out and play tomorrow and try not to focus on where you are in the tournament and just try and shoot a good number and see where you can finish.   It's very tight up there.   So just go out and try and play well. 

Q.   Does it change your approach?   You don't play with abandon particularly, but you know you've got to fire at pins a bit more. 
THOMAS BJÖRN:   You know you've got to shoot a number.   Somebody's got to shoot a number out of that bunch, so you know you've got to shoot a number.   That's got to be in your mind and what you're focusing on try and do. 
What I've done the last two days, 66, is always great, and if you can produce a number like that, well, then you're not going to be too far away, and then you've just got to see what the rest do. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT