MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 13, 2014
Thomas Bjorn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What will you take away from all of this?  
THOMAS BJORN:   I learned a lot about myself and this golf course these last two years.   I always felt like when I came in here it was too hard for me in some way, shape, or form.   The last year I didn't play well at all and still managed to get myself around the golf course.   This year, three rounds I played really, really well.   Didn't putt as well as you have to on this golf course.   
Today was a bit more scrappy, maybe, but I still managed to stick my nose in there and had a good round going through 13 holes.   
The last five holes got me a little bit.   It just caught up with me that I wasn't swinging it great.   But I learned so much about this golf course the last two years and now I actually feel like I can go into this golf tournament knowing that I can play it.   
   
 Q.   (No Microphone.)  
THOMAS BJORN:   No, but just the way you don't have to play it perfectly, you got to position yourself.   I learned the position shot more.   I stuck to the positions this week.   
There's certain golf shots on this golf course you've got to take on.   You can't stand there on 13 and lay it up, even though you sometimes feel like you want to.   You can't do it on 15 either.   Great players take on great shots.   That's what you got to do.   But that's this golf course.   
But in general, I feel like I positioned myself well.   There's certain holes out here that I can say that I struggled with.   
   
 Q.   (No Microphone.)  
THOMAS BJORN:   Yeah, absolutely.   But if you look at it, I didn't putt well enough from 8 to 15 feet this week.   You got to hole those putts, because that's where you got to hit it to on this golf course.   So that's just the way it is.   
I always said, top‑10 finish in any golf tournament, you've played well.   You got to take that with you.   
It wasn't to be this week, but I got to take confidence from that.   Even though we get our nose in there and then we want more.   
   
 Q.   You got a lot of Ryder Cup points as well.   
THOMAS BJORN:   Yeah, there's a lot of great things that come with it.   The positive feelings about the next three Major Championships.   You get your nose in early in the season, it kind of gives you a boost to go on, knowing that your golf is in the right direction.   
So I'll take a lot of great things from here and quietly be a little bit disappointed.   But you're supposed to be, I guess.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT