MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 12, 2014
Thomas Bjorn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
THOMAS BJORN:   You know, when I put my club down on 15.   I just touched the ball and I just wanted to make sure that there was no‑‑ they looked it up on TV three times.  
   
 Q.   Frustrating day.   On the plus side you're still in contention?  
THOMAS BJORN:   Yeah, I played really, really well today.   I played the first ten holes as good as I probably ever played at Augusta.  
So then hit a really good shot into 11 and just one flew in the bunker.   And unlucky on 12.   I was feeling so well, and feeling so comfortable and I took on two shots on 13 and 15.   I felt like I was swinging the club so well.   And I felt like I had to take those shots on, with but the swung I had with me on the golf course wasn't comfortable.   It didn't come off today.   
When you walk off the golf course with 73, playing golf to something in the 60s, and that's disappointing.   But still in there.   Still in there with a chance.   And I'm going to try to play 18 holes like I did the first ten tomorrow and holing a few putts, and you're very quick in contention in this golf tournament.   That's what it's about.   But I wouldn't say I'm overly disappointed, but I'm not completely satisfied, either.  
   
 Q.   Did you lose your touch a little bit on the greens at the end, as well, a few putts that you maybe left out there?  
THOMAS BJORN:   Yeah, I came up and out of it, especially on my left‑to‑right putts.   I came up and out of it.   I couldn't start the goal on line on my left‑to‑right putts and that's‑‑ that's just the way it is.   On 13, 15, 16, 17 and 18.   So you‑‑ I couldn't start those putts on line.   That's disappointing.   
   
 Q.   How do you think it's going to affect tomorrow?  
THOMAS BJORN:   It's going to take something in the 60s to put the pressure on and Bubba can do anything.   Bubba can shoot 64 and run away from everybody.   
But there's a couple of guys in there that in very good form.   Kuch is in very good form.   You've got to shoot something in the 60s to win this golf tournament.   If I can do that then we'll see how play goes.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT