OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 10, 2012
Thomas Bjorn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What did you do well today?
THOMAS BJORN:   I played well.   I played some solid stuff all day, and you know, I've done that for quite a long time now, and you know, I have to keep my patience all day. 
I played quite well on the front nine and I didn't really hole the putts, but they came on 8, 9 and 10 I made birdie there, and then all of a sudden I started doing well in the round, and you know, finished off in good style.   And that gives me confidence.
But I've played great golf for a long time now, and this is just coming more on the back of good rounds.   I just gotta try and keep focused and keep going with what I'm doing.   I'm not making too many big mistakes out there, and that's the key to playing this golf course. 

Q.   And you've got McIlroy on 13‑under as well.   He's won here before, you've won here before, Kaymer has won three times in Abu Dhabi.   Seems like kind of the better players on the Desert Swing are all coming to the leaderboard.   How do you like your chances?
THOMAS BJORN:   Anybody who sits up there on that leaderboard has got a chance.   That's the name of the game.   There's two rounds to go.   Nothing is done yet.   You gotta get out there and play your stuff tomorrow and present yourself with a chance come Sunday on the Back 9. 
There's a long way to go to that.   There's 27 holes before it gets really tough and the tournament gets decided.   So just gotta go out and continue playing well.   There's nobody on that leaderboard that's going to back down, so just continue playing well.

Q.   When you look at the round today, what were you happy about, some holes that stuck out for you today?
THOMAS BJORN:   I played well all day.   I played the golf course in a way that I want to play the golf course.   And you know, there was nothing that ‑‑ there was nothing that stood out.   I played 18 solid holes of golf.

Q.   Bogey free; right?
THOMAS BJORN:   Yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT