THE RYDER CUP
September 28, 2018
Thomas Bjorn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Your team just had the first clean sweep of a foursomes ever for Europe in a Ryder Cup.  What was the key after a disappointing morning?  
THOMAS BJØRN: We believe in it as a group and there were a few guys sitting out this morning that you normally see in the first session, but they were very keen to go out and play this afternoon and prove that we are a team and we do it with all 12.  But we're one team and did it with all 12 today.  That was the plan through the whole week.  We wanted to get everybody on the golf course today and we did that.   
Those guys that sat out this morning, I'm very proud of what they did because they came out and showed quality and class in what they did.  This was obviously a wonderful afternoon, disappointing morning, but there's a long way to go in this.  We go home with a good taste in our mouth tonight and then we regroup for tomorrow.   
 Q.  How vital was the point that Francesco and Tommy came up for in terms of the shift of momentum?  
THOMAS BJØRN: Yeah, in the end, Tommy stood up and holed those putts on 15 and 16, and they obviously are crucial, and he gave a belief through them, too, but also through the rest of them.  These two teams are tough.  They really are, and they are going to fight this out hard all the way till the end, and you can't give anything away, and even when you walk around this afternoon and you're up so much in matches, you just feel like, try and get it done because this American Team is very strong.   
We wake up tomorrow and we fight again and that's what's ahead of us.   
 Q.  You showed faith in Sergio García, despite his lack of form.  That paid dividends today with a point.  How pleased for him personally and what will it do for his confidence?  
THOMAS BJØRN: Yeah, but I mean, that's -- I believe in Sergio because I believe he's -- I've said all along, it's not only what he does on the golf course.  It's what he is for the whole team.   
You know, today he came out and played great, and did what we know Sergio can do.  But that's what you expect of him in this kind of event, and it's just been a really good day for him and now we go forward with the whole team.   
But Sergio is 1 of 12.  He's not as he's an individual.   
 Q.  Has this afternoon's play affected your pairings for tomorrow?  
THOMAS BJØRN: Not really.  I wanted to see everybody on the golf course, and then you can assess where you are.  I'll go in and sit down with my vice captains and within the next hour, you'll know the pairings for tomorrow morning.  I don't feel like I have to do too many changes, but we assess where everybody is and within the next half an hour, I've got a good idea in my head of what we want to do, but I just to get with everybody and hear where they are, as well.   
 Q.  Did you see anything in the morning that you could improve on?  
THOMAS BJØRN: You know, they are all in a role that they know what they do wrong and what they do right.  I don't need to talk to them too much about how to play the game.  You know, that's what they do and that's why I'm standing here.   
I lead them into a way of making sure that everybody understands what they are doing, and then they go with that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT