THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 15, 2011
Thomas Bjorn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. What was the difference between yesterday and today?
 THOMAS BJÖRN: I got off to a bad start; that was the first thing. I didn't really -- I tugged a driver on 2 and hit it in the bunker, actually thought I hit a good drive on 4 and hit it in bunker, and all of a sudden had three bogeys in a row, and it became a battle from there. I played really well from 5 through 13 and then the last five holes was tough, as well. But I managed to stay with it today, and short game helped me a little bit at the end. But you need that sometimes. 
 It wasn't the prettiest of days golf-wise, but I'll take where I stand in the championship right now. 

 Q. You have to like your position. 
 THOMAS BJÖRN: Well, it's a great position. I mean, I just walked off the golf course with Gary Woodland there on 3-over par and he's still got a chance of winning the championship, and he's probably going to make it just on the mark. Everybody that's there for this weekend can win it, and that's what we're looking ahead to. Unlike often when you're in contention in a championship where it may be between six, seven, eight of you, now it's between the whole field. You know, you've just got to go out there and knuckle down and see where it gets you to on Sunday afternoon.

 Q. How do you like playing in tough weather?
 THOMAS BJÖRN: Well, it looks like it's going to be extremely tough over the weekend. We're probably a bit more used it on this side of the Atlantic than on the other. We've faced it before, but it all comes down to how well you're playing. If you feel in control of your ball flight, then you can do well in really tough, windy conditions. But if you're not, you're going to run up numbers. And time will tell where everybody stands.

 Q. How do you deal with that? Playing in this kind of weather, people have no comprehension of the wind, all these elements going into it, how do you deal with that?
 THOMAS BJÖRN: First of all, try to do it a few times, and then experience will stand you a long way. Try not to make stupid mistakes out there. That's key points for really tough conditions. Double bogeys are going to hurt you a lot because it's very difficult to get them back. Bogeys in any major championship, you've got to live with them because you're going to make them. But when you start running up big numbers, then you're in trouble.

 Q. You made a great par save on the back, what did that do for you psychologically?
 THOMAS BJÖRN: Well, I haven't putted my absolute best this week, and I was due a few putts to roll in, and I rolled in a good one on 15 and a good one on 17 for par. It came at a very good time. It gave me a nice little comfort that I could get in the clubhouse with a decent score, and that's -- you need that sometimes. 

 Q. Talk about the pin positions today. 
 THOMAS BJÖRN: Well, there were some extremely difficult ones, but it's a major; you need it to be difficult. There's no reason for it to be easy. There was a couple out there where if we saw them in a normal week we'd ask some questions, but U.S. Open, British Open you expect it, so that's the way it is and get on with it. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 THOMAS BJÖRN: Stay as much inside as possible and then go out and play whenever I have to. 

 Q. Does anyone have an advantage in this type of weather?
 THOMAS BJÖRN: Well, guys that's grown up with links golf. I mean, Darren is sitting right there at the top of the leaderboard; he's grown up at Portrush. He knows it well. Guys like that that are used to playing in them conditions, used to practising in those conditions when they were younger, they obviously should have an advantage. But it's all about playing great. It's not about what you've done 20 years ago or 30 years ago, it's about how you play the next two days. And if you're not on it, then you're not going to have a chance. But the guys that are on it, they'll run away with it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT