THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 21, 2020
Danny Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









DANNY LEE:   There's a lot of slopes out there, downhill, downgrain.  Putts are very fast.  Definitely you've got to read the grains, as well.  I think that it's tougher when you have no break and it's going left-to-right.  Those are the tough ones.  I've been doing that very well obviously, and that's the only part I'm really thinking about when I'm on the green.  I'm trying to really read the grains well and get the speed control right.  It's been working.
Q. Seemed like the wind started to move around through the round.  How far of an effect is it when it is sort of inconsistent?
DANNY LEE:   I just trust that whichever the wind direction we started at the first hole, unless it changes middle of the round.  I just trust that and keep it, play like that.  There's a lot of trees out here and funnels going down, so you could -- where your ball is at, you could feel something different, completely opposite.  My caddie has been doing a great job that have and I've been trusting whichever direction he gave me and I think we're putting a lot of good team work up there.
Q. So you said that during the break you spent a lot of time with your young kids and weren't maybe practicing quite as much.  How long did it take you to sort of get back into the swing of the way that this new normal sort of golf is and not feel the rust or the weight of that layoff?
DANNY LEE:   I felt like right away, but I wasn't that far off.  I was just missing cuts by like one shot or two shot.  I was never really out of it except Memorial.  That place is really, really tough golf course when you're not on, and I wasn't on that week.  I also had a left ankle injury after Workday, so I was struggling with that a little bit.  But I was never that far off.  Even last week, I didn't miss a shot, and I only could get 2-under out of it.  I missed the cut by one.  I actually bogeyed the last hole to do it.  Hit a perfect, perfect drive, perfect shot.  Just ended up in the short-side.  Really tough up-and-down area.
I've been playing good.  It's just I'm not really surprised I shot this score today or yesterday.  My whole teamed, we knew it was coming any time.  And it happened today and yesterday.  So I'm really happy to see that result.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT