THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 6, 2017
Danny Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  6-under 64 today.  Talk about your day, what went well?  
DANNY LEE: Everything, I think.  Off the tee was good.  Iron games were strong out there.   
Left couple birdie chances out there but still made a lot of good putts.   
It was a good start.   
 Q.  Coming in as defending champion, how much of a confidence boost does that give you?  
DANNY LEE: I mean, I done it once before here, so that gets me a lot of good confidence for next time we play here.   
But I been playing some good golf last couple months.  It's that time of year I need to play good to get into Presidents Cup and stuff.   
It means a lot; 6-under is a very good start for me.   
 Q.  What was it like playing with Phil and Bubba today?  
DANNY LEE: It was a very crowded round and we had some couple of issues on the hole -- between hole 11 and 12, I think.  That was very unfortunate that happened, but hopefully they're okay.   
But other than that, was very enjoyable round.   
 Q.  Was the crowd pretty supportive for you today?  
DANNY LEE: Yeah.  There was quite a few fans out there for me.  Not as much as Bubba or Phil Mickelson, but I understand that.   
A lot of fans out here for me this week.   
 Q.  You've had good memories here good couple years ago.  What triggered your round today?  
DANNY LEE: Not sure.  Just kept my head down.  Just try to play my game, because I was playing with Phil Mickelson and Bubba Watson.  That was a very crowded round.   
I was just doing my best focusing on my game, and it worked well.  I been playing some great golf last couple of months, and I'm happy to -- I'm happy that it showed a good result on the first round of my first defending PGA TOUR.   
It was a good day.   
 Q.  Special memories for you here obviously with what happened two years ago.  
DANNY LEE: Yeah, very special memory.  I capture my first PGA TOUR event here.  I would love to repeat it again.  I think I'm at the right place for that right now.   
 Q.  How was it playing with Bubba and Phil?  They had a pretty wild round.  You seemed a whole lot steadier out there.  
DANNY LEE: Yeah, they hit it long and they don't like to hit it straight, I know that.  It's totally different than my game.  Like I said before, I just kept my head down, try to really focus on my game, and try not to play like them.   
I don't have that 320 carry in my body, so I just try to hit 295 straight and try to make it happen from there.   
 Q.  Scary when lefty hit the fan, wasn't it?  
DANNY LEE: Yeah, that was very unfortunate that happened.  I saw him.  He was struggling a little bit.  Hopefully he's okay.  It happens out here.   
I guess got a little unlucky there.   
 Q.  How much has the course changed from two years ago?  
DANNY LEE: A little bit.  Just greens are a little bit flatter.  If you happen to miss a green it's a very tough up and down.  Phil just made it look easy out there, but it's really not that easy out there when you miss a green.   
It's understandable because it's Phil Mickelson, but I'm just planning on try to hit many fairways as I can and many greens as I can and see what happens.   
 Q.  How different is the rough and the bunkers on this course now?  
DANNY LEE: Some of the longer shots I think you still have a chance for, but just around the greens it's such a strong grass I don't know how it's going to come out.   
So I better hit it straight, I guess.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT