THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 4, 2017
Danny Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Well, we would like to welcome our 2015 Greenbrier Classic champion Danny Lee, to the media center.  I know, Danny, you would have preferred to be here a year ago.   
Maybe just looking back on 2015, how special was that win here, your first win on tour?   
DANNY LEE: Obviously was a very special moment.  It was my first PGA TOUR victory, and I really felt like I needed that to make something different to myself and to make it into the Presidents Cup.  It meant everything for me.   
I guess it's not like life changing, but I accomplished what I wanted.   
THE MODERATOR: What do you recall about that win?  Anything that stands out looking back two years ago?   
DANNY LEE: Another two years on PGA TOUR.  (Laughter.)   
No, I mean, like I said before, I really needed to win some tournament to at least have a chance to get into Presidents Cup.  I am just very happy and thankful what happened at Greenbrier Classic.  It's one of my favorite place here, yeah.   
THE MODERATOR: You've had a nice run here.  You were third a couple weeks ago at Travelers.  How is your game coming in here right now?   
DANNY LEE: Oh, it's definitely getting better.  I feel more comfortable with my game.  Right now I feel very comfortable about it.  Especially my putting and my iron game has been really good.   
I know I was struggling a little bit late in the last year and early this year.  I was just testing some stuff and switching coaches and off the golf course I had a little bit of problem with it.   
Everything is all settled in and I'm in a good place right now.  I'm just ready to play some good golf.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
 Q.  You mentioned how it catapulted you to the Presidents Cup.  You're starting to build your ranking back up again.  We have another one this year.  Captain Price has talked about wanting to keep the same team.  Are you motivated to try to get back there?  
DANNY LEE: Yeah, it's definitely in my mind.  I'm pretty sure I'm in the way better spot than last time I make it in, so if I just kept playing how I played last couple of month I think I'll be in a good spot.   
 Q.  You talked about your putting is coming along.  I think of the five or six winners here, they all putted really well.  Is that the key to this course, do you think?  
DANNY LEE: For sure I think if you want to win a golf tournament you have to putt really good.  That's a fact, I think.   
Another thing is tee to green is kind of tricky here.  You have to hit the fairway to at least have a birdie opportunity here.  Second shot out here is no gimme, especially with the new greens out here.  I only played back nine today, but I heard every hole has a different green and different shape and different slope on it.   
I think it's a little bit firmer than what I remember couple of years ago.  I think hitting the fairway off the tee is the key point this week.   
 Q.  Pairings came out.  I'm going to take it you never played in a threesome with Phil Mickelson and Bubba Watson.  How cool will that be?  
DANNY LEE: It will be very cool.  I have played with Phil early this year at Palm Springs.  He's a very nice guy.  Definitely one of my top idols in my head.   
And Bubba, it's just great playing with those great two guys and good for the game.  I know I'm playing with the two lefty, that's for sure.  I'll be standing on the right side of the tee box by myself.   
 Q.  Again, you talked about how you had some coach changes.  Is it back to your original coach?  
DANNY LEE: Yes.  And I had my short game coach.  Month and a half ago I start working with him in Dallas and that kind of helped me a lot.  I was struggling around the greens quite a bit, and I dramatically improved a lot.   
Also added a new mental coach to my team.  She's been helping me a lot.   
 Q.  Who is the short game coach that you've added?  
DANNY LEE: Jeff Percy. (Phonetic.   
 Q.  Okay.  And you heard good things and took him on board?  
DANNY LEE: Yeah.   
 Q.  Okay.  Good stuff.  And as you said, the results have been trending in the right direction.  Is all your confidence back as well?  You mentioned the mental coach.  
DANNY LEE: Yeah.  I had some good finishes, and I got to play in the final group on Colonial.  I haven't been in that situation for a while.  I kind of didn't sleep that well Saturday night and stuff.  I had to go through that stuff a little bit.   
But at Travelers I felt a lot better.  Then I played great that week all week.  I think I'm on the right track to do something great I think.   
 Q.  You're kind of like golf's Iron Man.  I don't think there are any players that play more tournaments than you do in a year.  Have you ever considered maybe laying off a little bit?  
DANNY LEE: I'm still in my 20s right now.  I'll think about that later.  I mean, even I take a week off I'm going to go out to the golf course and practice every day anyway.  Might as well come out here and practice and play, right?  Play for FedExCup ranking points.   
And if I play better, might take me to the Presidents Cup again.   
 Q.  Fair enough.  I remember in 2015 after the playoff it came out that your caddie took your number and threw it in the well of the trophy.  Can you tell that again?  
DANNY LEE: Yeah.  I don't actually know what he was thinking when he was doing that.  (Laughter.)  I guess it was a good luck thing.  You got to ask my caddie for it.  I still haven't asked him about that.  It just happened and it was like, Okay.   
 Q.  Lastly, does it feel like you're defending this week?  
DANNY LEE: Well, would've felt a lot better if it was last year, but the unfortunate weather happened here and people had to go through some tough stuff here.   
Then, yeah, it does feel like I'm going to defend, but it's for three years in a row, not two years in a row.  (Laughter.)   
 Q.  Has Pricey reached out to you?  
DANNY LEE: Yes.  He's been texting me whenever I have a good week, I guess.  Travelers, Byron Nelson, Colonial.  I think every time I -- he texted me on Friday or Saturday at Dallas and Colonial.  Next day I would play kind of bad, so I think he figured that out and will text me after Sunday.  (Laughter.)   
 Q.  The important question:  Two years ago you kind of wish you had a girlfriend to share the celebration with.  Have you got one now?  
DANNY LEE: It's a fiancee now.   
 Q.  Oh, congratulations.  
DANNY LEE: Thank you.  She's actually new part of my team and she's been very supportive and helping me a lot off the course and stuff.  Every since she's been traveling around with me I been playing some great golf.  It's just happened, I guess.   
 Q.  What's her name?  
DANNY LEE: Yoomi, Y-o-o-m-i.   
 Q.  Is she from Australia?  
DANNY LEE: No.  She's from Korea actually.  Born and raised.   
 Q.  Where did you meet her?  
DANNY LEE: In Korea.  Met through friends.  Kind of happened quick, but that's sometimes just how it goes.   
 Q.  When you won, did it take as long as you thought it should take to win or did it come faster?  
DANNY LEE: I wasn't thinking about that for sure.  It just happened.  I was just playing really hard, practicing really hard, and trying my best.  It just happened.   
But would have been a lot more fun if it happened a little earlier, but I had to go through some rollercoaster years and learn from it.  I had to get better at it every year, and then that kind of gave me the solid base underneath.  That's what made me better and kept me strong.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT