DEAN & DELUCA INVITATIONAL
May 27, 2017
Danny Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  It was hard work out there.  That had to feel good.  
DANNY LEE: Yeah, I mean, I really needed that to have a good momentum starting tomorrow.  It was a good grind out there.  It's not easy out there when wind is blowing sideways every hole.  It's very hard for me to commit every shot.   
And even you hit a lot of good shots, distance control wasn't that on pointe today.  So it was just a good grind today.   
 Q.  That birdie earns you a spot in the last group.  Going to go off in threesomes tomorrow because of the chance of weather.  Is that important, to be in that final group?  
DANNY LEE: To be honest, doesn't really matter.  All that matters was making -- finishing with the birdie on a tough, grinding day.  That's what I exactly needed.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
DANNY LEE: It was a good grind day.  It's tough out there with the wind blowing sideways 20 miles an hour.  It was really hard to commit every shot.   
I fight through and had a great birdie on the last hole.  That's what I exactly needed to have a good momentum tomorrow.   
 Q.  One of those days you don't get a lot of momentum or birdies up front.  On the flip side of that, you're only a couple back going into tomorrow.  
DANNY LEE: Yeah, right now I'm not thinking about too much.  Hopefully I will start off nicely as today, and just see what happens out there.   
 Q.  What's working for you right now?  
DANNY LEE: Probably my iron game.  Actually whole general game has improved, I think.  I been working really, really hard on that, especially my ball striking.  My ball striking wasn't really that great last couple of months.  Started to turn around and ball striking is great, I think.   
 Q.  I think premium is on putting.  
DANNY LEE: Putting, yeah.  Putting has been good for a while.  It's just my ball striking was so off that it was hard for me to making a lot of birdies.   
Yeah, putting has been good for a while, I think.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT