OLYMPIC GAMES RIO 2016: GOLF
August 12, 2016
Danny Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Fantastic round.   
DANNY LEE: Yeah, played very solid today. Ball‑striking‑wise, I've been hitting good the last couple months. I was just struggling with my putting a little bit, but obviously today was a lot better, the putting. After two rounds of golf, you definitely want to be in this kind of situation instead of too far behind.  
   
 Q. You're going to be in the last couple groups. That's a very nice position to be in for the weekend?  
DANNY LEE: Definitely, I told my caddie, not going to try to do too much out here the next couple days. Today and Saturday, I just want to have some kind of chance to catch up to the leader, and I'm definitely in a good position.  
   
 Q. Putting today, anything in particular?   
DANNY LEE: Putting, I always have been using a line on my ball and aim where I want to hit with the line. Today I did not do that. I tried to stay with the putt to try to see myself see the ball rolling in the hole, and I did very well with that. It worked very good. So I guess I think I'm going to stick with that.  
   
 Q. Did you have to hole some long ones on the last few holes or were you hitting it close?  
DANNY LEE: Not really. Last hole, the longest putt I had was probably an eagle putt on No.18, 25 feet.   
   
 Q. Do you definitely feel like you're in with a good shot?   
DANNY LEE: Yeah, we've got two more rounds to go, and like I said it's all about where you are after the rounds, and right now, I think I'm in pretty good position.   
   
 Q. How are you feeling about the course as far as the challenges?   
DANNY LEE: It's very generous off the tee, and if you are really having to hit a bad one, and other than that Sandy bush area, if you get a good break, you can still hit out of it. But I hit it there once today and I got a good break, I guess, and I hit out of it and made a pretty good up‑and‑down for par, on 12.   
   
 Q. You wouldn't be surprised to see a Stenson or a Justin Rose alongside you going into the weekend?   
DANNY LEE: Obviously they are all great players. They have been playing good golf for not just this year, but the last five, six years. I'm not surprised all the top guys are there. I've been playing with the top guys all year, so I know what to expect. Just got to play my own game.  
   
 Q. Are you getting much Kiwi support?  
DANNY LEE: Yeah, the last few holes, I had definitely had good support. That kind of gave me good vibes for four birdies a row.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT