ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 8, 2016
Danny Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Thoughts on that round of golf today?  
DANNY LEE: It was another great round of golf.  It wasn't windy as yesterday.  It was a lot doable today; a lot of birdie chances out there I think.  A lot of the short holes were very reachable.  A lot of the par 5s felt like they were reachable today.   
I didn't make any mistakes, missing any chances and made a lot of birdies today which was good.   
 Q.  Was it like playing a different course entirely from day one?  
DANNY LEE: It was definitely a lot easier than yesterday.  A lot of the into the wind holes were a lot easier.  It was probably a five-club difference from yesterday.  It was definitely easier.   
 Q.  You did say in the buildup to this event about accommodating and getting used to links golf.  Seems like you've made a nice transition.  Are you good at learning things quickly?  
DANNY LEE: I hope so.  It looks like I'm heading to the right direction, which is good.  Hopefully keep it going like this.   
 Q.  Are you enjoying the creativity that's involved?  
DANNY LEE: Yeah, I mean, it is beautiful out here and then I'm just really happy I'm making a lot of birdies out there.  It's really unfortunate what happened to West Virginia area there, doing a little donation every time I make a birdie or an eagle, donating a little bit of money every time.   
So I'm very happy that I made a lot of birdies today and hopefully I can make some more the next couple days and hopefully I can put some eagles in there, too.   
 Q.  Lovely round today.  
DANNY LEE: Yeah, 6-under today was a very good score.  It was definitely a little bit easier than yesterday conditions-wise, course setup-wise.  You just hit it near the hole and there was a lot of birdie chances out there.  The greens are not overly that hilly, so if you put it on the green somewhere, I think you've got a decent chance.   
 Q.  And you took those chances, three birdies in four holes.  
DANNY LEE: Just happened.  I wasn't thinking about anything.  Just naturally happened.  I always love to start my round hot and put some birdies in the early round so I can get some momentum going, and I've been doing that very well the last two days.  I think I'm heading in the light direction.   
 Q.  And it feels obviously a lot calmer than yesterday, but out on the course, how is it playing differently from the first round?  
DANNY LEE: I think it's just the difference that you're taking on shorter clubs and you don't have to worry about releasing the ball too much.  Your obviously shorter clubs are going to release a little bit less and you can attack the flag a little bit more than yesterday.   
 Q.  You've obviously took the very kind gesture of donating money for every birdie and eagle that you've made to the flood victims of West Virginia.  How big a motivation, added motivation is that to do well here this week?  
DANNY LEE: To do well here, I mean, I love to play great every week.  But making birdies and eagles are very important to me this week.  It's very unfortunate that happened at West Virginia.  I won the Greenbrier Classic last year there and was so looking forward to go back there and interact with a lot of fans, and people were just so nice to me last year.   
It's really unfortunate what happened there, and hopefully I can -- I know it's not that much to help everybody but I'm trying to make as much birdies as possible to add a little bit of help.   
 Q.  Obviously close to your heart and important for you to be doing your bit to help.  
DANNY LEE: It was a huge breakthrough for me to capture my first PGA TOUR victory last year, and ever since, I've been playing some great golf, and that is a very, very special place for me.  Like I said again, nobody expected that kind of weather down there.  It's very unfortunate.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT