ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 7, 2016
Danny Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DANNY LEE: It's very unfortunate what happened back there.  A little bit upset that I couldn't get to defend my title at Greenbrier but I'm actually more worried and upset that a lot of people are going through a tough time in West Virginia area where Greenbrier Classic is.  It's just very unfortunate to hear that.  But I made quite a few birdies out there with these conditions, so very happy with that.
Q. It's nothing like the same hardship, but how tough a time was it out there for you in the wind?
DANNY LEE: A lot of the times, after I hit a shot, I didn't know where it went.  I almost lose my mind out there.  I guess that's why I came here early to get used to all the conditions out here before the British Open.  I think 1-under is still one heck of a round with this wind.
Q. What happened at the last?
DANNY LEE: Nothing.  Just golf happened.  It was very strong into, right-to-left, and you needed to hit a good one drive.  I was trying to hit a low one, and I kind of hit up on it a little bit too much, and the clubface was just a little bit shut, went left, and nobody found my ball; easy seven.
Q. Have you played in Scotland before?
DANNY LEE: Yeah, I played this tournament at this course in 2011 I remember.
I don't think I ever shot an under-par round at a links course here, so very happy with the red figures.  I think it was first-ever I shot a par out here.  I think that's a decent start.
Q. The seven at the last, but only two shots off the lead.  That tells us that you're still very much in contention.
DANNY LEE: Yeah, I mean, it's way too early to say anything.  It's only the first round.  A lot can happen out there.  I mean, I'm definitely not in a bad position I think.
Q. And you had the worst of the conditions.
DANNY LEE: Yeah, I think I'm getting used to this 50-mile-per-hour wind out there.  There's a lot of the times, it was tough to putt because there was so much wind coming through, and I couldn't stand over my ball a couple times.  But other than that, I think it was pretty good.
Q. At times, did you think it was almost unplayable because of the wind?
DANNY LEE: They set it up so nicely, The European Tour, it was definitely playable.  I don't think no one's complaining about it was unplayable out there.  It's definitely fair and playable, but it wasn't easy to make birdies out there.
Q. You need to be strong, don't you, to play in those conditions, don't you?
DANNY LEE: Physically and mentally, you have to be strong and just put it on grind mode I think.  No one is going to hit perfect shots out there.  When you hit perfect shots out there, you're going to be sometimes 40 yards short or 40 yards long in this wind.  You never know what it's going to do to you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT