U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 16, 2016
Danny Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So really quickly, what can you tell me about the day?  
DANNY LEE: I mean, it's a long day for everybody.  They didn't expect weather is going to turn out like this.   
First delay, we had to wait almost an hour and a half and go straight to our ball and start playing again.  I never experienced that before, and I was okay with it.  I only had a 40-yard pitch shot.  So it was no big deal.   
But next tee ball was 8th hole, so it was 250 to the hole.  So I need to hit a good shot, but I was nervous a lot because I didn't get any warmup.   
 Q.  You had a couple birdies early in the front.  What can you tell me about that?  
DANNY LEE: I wasn't driving it that great first front nine.  I only hit two fairways, 1 and 4, and No. 4 I holed out from 30 feet.  I made a long putt, and it looked very comfortable.  It was uphill right-to-lefter, made that one.   
And another one was a chip-in from over the green on par 3.  I think it was 5 or 6, the par 3.  I wasn't actually trying to make it from there.  I was just trying to hit a good chip, which I did, and hit the flag and went in.   
 Q.  Anything you're looking to improve on tomorrow?  
DANNY LEE: Hopefully, I can drive it a little bit straighter tomorrow.  That would be better.   
 Q.  A crazy day, but you're still 2 under, right?  
DANNY LEE: Yeah, it was a good day.  I know it's a little bit frustrating.  It's been a long day.  I think it's been a long day for everybody.  I can't complain.  I put in a good round, and I have another birdie opportunity on hole 14.  So I'm happy with that.   
Look forward to coming back here tomorrow.   
 Q.  How about the course conditions when you went out for the second time?  Were they a little softer?  Did you get a little more aggressive?  
DANNY LEE: Yeah, it definitely got softer.  I was actually surprised how soft it was playing out there.  The ball was actually spinning back, and I would never imagine that was going to happen.  All the practice rounds I played.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT