THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
June 2, 2016
Danny Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Pretty solid day today.  First round, five birdies and an eagle.  Give us an overview of your round, Danny, if you would.  
DANNY LEE: It was a good round.  I never really played very well on this tournament before.  This is the first time I probably shot under par on this tournament.  It seems like my game definitely got better than the last couple years, which is good to see.  I put up a really nice round today.   
 Q.  What does it mean to you to have this round on a course where you haven't played that well on, maybe the good play had come in from last week?  
DANNY LEE: It just seems like this course is an all around golf course.  You can't just shoot a good number out there with good driver or good iron shots or good putter.  Seems like you're able to do everything.   
Of course, it's Nicklaus' design, so it really gives you like every shot you have to be right on it and focused and commit to it and have a good shot, and I did very well with that today.   
 Q.  You seemed to hit your irons very well today.  Do you feel like this is more of a second shot golf course at times?  
DANNY LEE: Like I said, I think it's all around.  If one thing is loose, you're going to make some big numbers out there, I think.   
 Q.  You did your damage the last 12 holes, but given that you haven't had much success here, did it take you a while to maybe settle in?  
DANNY LEE: It was a good grind for six, seven holes, I think.  And then I pushed my tee shot on the par 5, No. 7, and I just laid it up to 90 yards and hit a perfect wedge shot, and it happened to go in there.  That kind of got my momentum going for today.  And then after that, it was a smooth ride.   
 Q.  How much did the rain affect things at all?  
DANNY LEE: Just not really.  It rained about a quick ten minutes, and then it stopped.  I made a good up-and-down for par at 14 for the par 5, I think.  So yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT