AT&T BYRON NELSON
May 19, 2016
Danny Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Danny, great start.  Three birdies right out of the gate.  Just get some comments on the start and then also a great round.  
DANNY LEE: Thanks.  It was really doable out there.  I guess it rained a lot, yeah, last night and the course was playing very soft.  It was easy for me to hit fairways and greens.  All you got to do is just try to land your ball somewhere near the flag, which I did great and I also putted really well today and it's definitely a good start.   
 Q.  Were you stressing at all about trying to get it finished before dark?  
DANNY LEE: I was at the last hole.  They got into trouble, the group in front of me, and they took forever and we really wanted to finish today and which I did and I'm very happy with that.   
 Q.  I think you told us last year about exactly how far do you live from here?  
DANNY LEE: Under five minutes in that direction (indicating).   
 Q.  You moved over here.  
DANNY LEE: Nobody has to know that.   
 Q.  How often would you say you play, here because you're always traveling on Tour?  Is this where you practice predominantly?  
DANNY LEE: I hit balls and practice a lot here.  I workout here.  They got a great facility for workout and golf.   
 Q.  What was your gallery like today?  
DANNY LEE: I had a couple members and best friends following me today.  It wasn't much.  It's not as good as Jordan's but it was very happy for me to watch all my friends and members I know come out and watch me play and I played good.   
 Q.  Danny, talk a little bit about your play.  Coming in on a pretty good note.  I know you didn't finish like you wanted to Sunday at Players but a good week in Charlotte and playing some good golf.  
DANNY LEE: Yeah, I've been playing good all year.  Been hitting the ball really, really well.  I just couldn't get my all four rounds together for a week and I never really had a hot start or hot round.   
I had a great finish at Charlotte, shot 5-under on last day and finished Top 10.  That kind of gave me momentum to play great at The Players.  I had a good chance but I finished double double on Sunday and kind of disappointed me a little bit but it happens out here.  I mean it's tough finishing hole and I'm really happy to watch myself play really great on the 1st Round at Byron Nelson.   
 Q.  How did the course feel for you?  
DANNY LEE: I mean I guess it rained a lot last night.  It was playing very, very soft.  It was a perfect course for birdie opportunities out there.  All you got to do is just try to land your ball near the flag and you don't have to worry about rolling it off or anything like that so -- and I did great with it and putted well.  It was a good start.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT