MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2016
Danny Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. (No Microphone.)
DANNY LEE: Pretty fast and firm. Probably firmer, but the wind conditions weren't as bad as yesterday. So it was an enjoyable round. 

Q. What will you take from this Masters experience?
DANNY LEE: A lot of things, I think. I know I can ‑‑ I think I know I got the game for it to win the Majors and I had a pretty good chance after two rounds, which is good. I just never putted on that kind of green and this kind of wind conditions, so it was a good, really good experience for me. And there's a lot of positives out there. I was hitting it well and making a lot of good up‑and‑downs and it was good.

Q. Quick question about your playing partner, this was his first Masters, what was it like playing with him today?
DANNY LEE: It was fun. I think we grew up playing together starting from the juniors and so I knew him pretty well. We had two good shots in the back nine par‑5s and two birdies and it's unfortunate to watch him miss a short birdie putt on the 18th. But that would have been a nicer round. But we played great today. 

Q. What about looking ahead for the rest of the season?
DANNY LEE: Well, a short drive down to RBC Heritage, which I'm playing. I got some good momentum going and especially finishing with birdie on the last hole. So, I'll look forward to it. 

Q. Well done, another really good day of ball striking today and the putter seemed like it got a little bit warmer. 
DANNY LEE: Yeah, I definitely putted a lot better today than yesterday and I was very pleased with the way I played and I just hit it in there a couple areas I shouldn't have. It was pretty tough to get up‑and‑down from that. And it was a good round.

Q. You obviously holed a lot more putts today, pins a bit more accessible, but did you feel like you actually learned something from yesterday?
DANNY LEE: Yes, yesterday I putted, I got way too caught up with lining my ball and I just completely lost speed control out there. 
Today I wasn't using any lines, I was just focusing on the speed control and trying to stroke the putts better and make a good stroke and that definitely helped me a lot.

Q. Obviously playing next week, but then you take a week off. Will you use that week to reassess your goals for the rest of the season at all?
DANNY LEE: I mean, week off is not really helping that much, you just unpack your stuff and chill for a couple days and get back at it and get ready for next week. But sometimes I need that time off to refresh myself and usually after playing this week there's a lot of mental awareness going on out there, so I definitely deserve a week off.

Q. Yeah, definitely. Are you pleased with yourself?
DANNY LEE: Yeah and no. It could have gone a lot better yesterday, I think. I had a good chance if I played a little bit better yesterday, I might have been out there playing out there, still playing out there, I might have a chance. I don't know. 
I'm still happy with 1‑under today. 

Q. Do you feel like you've proven quite a lot to yourself this week?
DANNY LEE: What was the question? 

Q. Do you feel like you've proven a lot to yourself this week?
DANNY LEE: Yes and no. I guess it's both. I gave my best out there this week and I'm very happy with what I did out there and it was a good week for me.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT