MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 9, 2016
Danny Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. (No Microphone.)
DANNY LEE: From inside 15 feet and made 3‑putts twice I think today. I think I was hitting it really good, except for the tee shot on 5, I think, I just pushed that one. But I thought I was hitting it fine, I just never putted on this kind of greens before. That's my excuse. It was so fast, I didn't even know what to do out there. Probably my dad could putt it better than that. I mean it is my experience, on a Saturday, hopefully I'll put a better number tomorrow. 

Q. When you combine those greens with the wind as well, are these the most tricky conditions you've ever seen?
DANNY LEE: Actually, the wind wasn't that bad out there. I wasn't really feeling it that much on the greens, it was just so slippery fast. I was just putting on ice. 

Q. A lot of players have spoken about how mentally taxing today has been. Is that something that you can agree with?
DANNY LEE: Yes, I'm mentally pooped right now. (Laughter.)

Q. Conditions are expected to be a little bit easier tomorrow, so what are your aims and hopes for tomorrow?
DANNY LEE: Thank goodness. That's good to hear. That's exactly what I need. 
Hopefully, I can shoot some kind of under par tomorrow. 

Q. Second to last group in a Major, that in itself is an experience for someone of your level and your age. What do you feel you gained from that experience today?
DANNY LEE: A lot, actually. I definitely learned that I can still compete out here in the Majors. Ball striking was, I think I hit it phenomenal today, I just made so many silly 3‑putts, I just didn't know how soft to hit it, I didn't want to leave any putts short from downhill and there was a lot of stress out there. But I want to just take it as a good experience and it was still fun.

Q. The positives that you're taking out of it, tee to green you were pretty excellent, really. 
DANNY LEE: I was. I could see it. I was playing out there and I could see myself ‑‑ there was a lot of birdie chances out there, but I'm making that birdie chance as a bogey too many times. It was nasty. 

Q. With the putting, is it purely speed of the greens that you felt comfortable with or was there anything technically that you're not happy with?
DANNY LEE: Well, early in the rounds I was too focused, I got too caught up in the line, trying to hit it on the line perfectly and I lost completely speed control. And it felt like I was pulling my putts a little bit. That's my tendency. And it happened out there. And I guess I was a little bit nervous. 

Q. There's still plenty to play for even if you take the leaders out of it. If you get a good finish, that will guarantee you to come back next year. How important is that for you where you are as a golfer in your career?
DANNY LEE: It is very important and I will be very happy to finish high up there. But I want to just go out there and learn how to putt around these kind of greens. I'm not going to try to do too much and put too much pressure on myself. I want to just learn how to putt on these kind of greens.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT