ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 6, 2020
Danny Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Great round of golf and really a great finish. Talk to me about how you just pushed away that bogey at 17 to bounce back with a birdie at 18.
DANNY LEE: I know with this wind direction that 18's a little, I wasn't going to miss my tee ball right, because right, you miss it in the right rough, it seems like have you no chance to get it near the green. So I was aiming at the left rough and try to hit a little fade in there. And it went straight into the left rough and I had a decent lie there and good way to finish.
Q. It looked like -- were you in between clubs for that second shot at 18 or were you in between shot shapes?
DANNY LEE: I was, actually. The lie I had was kind of the a little bit of a jumper and I just didn't want to make a weak swing with trouble on the right. I did that plenty of times last week at the 15th hole. So I learned that lesson the hard way.
I finally made a good swing when the trouble was on the right side.
Q. Conditions very difficult today. 67 is a great round in these conditions. How did you do it? Looking through the whole round, what do you think was the key for you?
DANNY LEE: Just hole by hole, shot by shot. I wasn't thinking anything at all. This is definitely not the conditions to be very aggressive on. And I think if you try to be aggressive it gives you a lot of problems out there, so I was just trying to be very patient. And I worked very hard on my putting with my short game coach and I finally feel like I got my putting back a little bit, so I just trusted my putting today and stayed patient and had a good result.
Q. Final thing with the putting: Tell me about these greens, just how fast they are with this wind that dried them out.
DANNY LEE: Yeah, the back nine today was a lot different than yesterday on the greens. Some of the putts, I had 2, 3 percent downhill slopes. I barely felt like I made a stroke there, it was going still 10, 15 feet. The wind was helping it. So it got really quick out there but that didn't stop me today.
Q. How do you feel heading into the weekend?
DANNY LEE: Obviously, it's a prime position to start off the weekend. And I had a good, really good second round and an okay first round, so I definitely have the positive momentum going with me. So a lot of positives for the weekend, I think.
Q. So you're now tied currently at the top of the leaderboard. What's going through mind going into the weekend?
DANNY LEE: Nothing, really. It doesn't mean anything after Friday. I have two more days to play and just enjoy it out there.
Q. The weather was a little bit different today from yesterday, a little bit cooler, the wind was still a factor but how did that affect your play today?
DANNY LEE: Actually, the weather wasn't that different than yesterday. Only different part was the greens were a little bit faster, a little bit firmer at the end and different wind direction. I actually like playing in this wind direction than yesterday's wind direction. I think it makes the tough holes even tougher and it's very hard to get it in two on the par-5s. You have to have a really good drives out there.
Q. What's the biggest thing you're looking to continue in the game from these first two days until the final two days?
DANNY LEE: Play golf.
Q. We were just joking about the difference a day makes with the wind direction. As far as execution out there, how challenging was it with this north breeze?
DANNY LEE: It wasn't easy out there with this wind direction. It changed the golf course completely. I think this wind direction makes the golf course a lot tougher than the other wind direction, probably one of the toughest. But I actually prefer playing with this wind direction than yesterday's round because I thought, I truly believe you can't fake it out there with this wind direction out there.
Q. One thing you can't fake is when you're putting well. Your career low was 21 putts. Today just one higher with 22. What was working so well for you on these difficult greens today?
DANNY LEE: I don't know. Me and my short game coach, we have been working on putting for, my putting for a long time and working really hard at it. I know it was there. It just was not quite hot enough to move to the top of the leaderboard, but I finally found something today, so I can keep rolling like this the next two days.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT