MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 8, 2016
Danny Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. I know the finish wasn't probably what you wanted, but when you look up at the leaderboard and see how difficult it's getting, how do you think your position is going into the weekend?  
DANNY LEE: I'm very happy with where I finished today. But I am very disappointed that I made two 3‑putts in a row. Finishing bogey, bogey on 17 and 18, but I hit a good putt. They were all good putts and I just didn't see it going back like that. And it just happened. What can you do? But it is playing tough out there, wind is very gusty, we'll see what happens out there today.  
   
 Q. In comparison to yesterday, what if anything did you take from it?  
DANNY LEE: I wasn't driving it very nicely and missed a couple of short putts today. Yesterday I felt like I made a lot of putts, but today I wasn't making enough. And I had two balls in the water on 12 and 13 and with hitting two balls in the water, 2‑over is not a bad score. You want to take it under par, of course, but.   
   
 Q. What are your expectations going into the weekend though?  
DANNY LEE: I'm just happy. My score is still red and I might still have a chance to make it up for the next couple days. I don't know what's going to happen out there, but sounds like it's going to be very breezy still. But I'm just happy I get to play on the weekend and I have a chance.   
   
 Q. How much do you leader-board watch and see what Jordan's doing?  
DANNY LEE: I wasn't really looking at it that much. I was just too busy playing my own game out there. It's tough enough to just focus on my game out here. And I think that if he keeps going very nicely‑‑ he's putting up a very nice round right now, so we'll see.   
   
 Q. You still seemed to play pretty aggressive today.   
DANNY LEE: Yeah, I mean I've always been an aggressive player, so I don't think that's going to change me if there is water there or wind there. If I know I can pull it off, I'll go for it. But, unfortunately, there were a lot of good shots out there, it's just very gusty and the wind just ate up my ball and it ended up being in the water a couple times. But I played pretty solid.   
   
 Q. You played as good as a 70, but didn't quite get it. Maybe a bit less even.   
DANNY LEE: I don't know. 2‑over is 2‑over, so.   
   
 Q. Your opponent went bogey, bogey, does that make your 74 feel a little bit better?  
DANNY LEE: I don't know. What I'm doing right now, I don't think it's going to‑‑ my opponent making bogeys or birdies, I don't think that's going to change me. I'm going to just focus on my game and I'm just very fortunate that I have a couple more chances out there.   
   
 Q. You did a good job of hanging in there and staying in contention, really. How are you going to spend this afternoon and prepare for tomorrow?  
DANNY LEE: Seems like I need to work on my putting a little bit.   
(Laughter.) I'll be spending a lot of time on the putting green, I guess.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT