WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 6, 2016
Danny Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
An interview with:   
DANNY LEE   
THE MODERATOR: Welcome Danny Lee to the Waste Management Phoenix Open media center.  You had 4-under today to take the 54-hole lead for the first time in your PGA TOUR career.  What can you say today about out there?   
DANNY LEE: Obviously played well today.  Had a good, early start, birdieing 2, 3 and 4.  It was pretty nice start for me, and it seems like I'm playing solid golf right now.   
THE MODERATOR: It's obviously a different atmosphere than most events.  I think you're one of the most fun-loving guys on the tour.  How do you think you adapt to that atmosphere out there?   
DANNY LEE: I'm just trying to enjoy myself and I am.  It's so much fun out there, so many people just cheering for Rickie instead of me, unfortunately (laughter).  But I'm having fun.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions?   
 Q.  How early do you know that you've got the putter rolling?  You had 10 putts for the first eight holes, or nine putts.  A really low number.  When do you know you're rolling the ball well?  
DANNY LEE: Well, I didn't even know that was my putting.  I didn't know how many putts I had, but I just feel very comfortable on the greens here because it's rolling so fast and so smooth.  Just balls rolling true here.  So you just gotta read the break and trust it and make a good stroke, I think.   
 Q.  Do you feel like the birdie chances out there are kind of hard to come by?  Seems like you guys were really grinding out there on 20-, 25-footers.  
DANNY LEE: Definitely.  Making birdie out here is not easy because of greens being so firm.   
But good side is greens, like I said before, so fast and rolling really truly.  If you just know where to putt it, I think you have a good chance to make long putts out here.   
 Q.  Do you think you'll have any problem sleeping tonight on a three-shot lead?  
DANNY LEE: I don't know.  I never been into this situation before, so I will tell you tomorrow morning (smiling).   
 Q.  I will ask you tomorrow morning.  
DANNY LEE: Okay.   
 Q.  Where has your confidence made the biggest leap as you look at your journey as a pro?  
DANNY LEE: Definitely winning at the Greenbrier Classic gave me a lot of confidence, and it kind of taught me how to be on the top and what I need to work on and what it takes to win a golf tournament.   
Like I say, Greenbrier was really good breakthrough for me.   
 Q.  Are you doing anything differently to try to stay calm when all this craziness is going on around you?  
DANNY LEE: Yeah, I try to breathe a lot.  Taking slow breath out there really helps, I think, when you have 100,000 people out here or more.  I don't know.   
 Q.  200.  
DANNY LEE: 200,000?  Wow.  This is crazy.  (Smiling.)   
Yeah.  That's what I do.   
 Q.  Do you expect Rickie to do anything to your car tonight?  
DANNY LEE: I hope not.  (Laughter.)   
 Q.  Does it help you out there that you and Rickie kind of have a good relationship?  Does it make you feel more comfortable on the course?  
DANNY LEE: Yes.  I think it always helps if you play with someone you know, especially.  I'm very close with James Hahn, as well, and we were just cheering for each other.  It was a blast day out there.   
THE MODERATOR: Danny, for the first time you have had success at this tournament, and the last three rounds have been some of your best you have had at TPC Scottsdale.  Are you seeing the golf course a little differently than you have before?   
DANNY LEE: No.  It still looks long and narrow and tough.  I always struggled from my tee shot game out here before, but seems like this week I have been driving it really nicely, which you need to do out here, and that's the key of my game this week, I think.   
 Q.  What do you think is harder, trying to hold on to that lead or trying to chase someone down?  
DANNY LEE: I don't know.  Like I said, I never been into this situation before, so I can't tell you which one is which, but I guess I'll have to see tomorrow.   
 Q.  If you could just describe the tee shot on 14, your thought process there.  That seems like a pretty tough drive there.  
DANNY LEE: 14, par-5?  Par-4?  It's a very comfortable tee shot for me because I'm a draw-ball hitter.  I just aim at the right side of fairway and try to hit power draw in there, which I did today, and it was a good par, I guess.   
 Q.  What was the best thing you learned about yourself on the final day at the Greenbrier?  
DANNY LEE: What was that?   
 Q.  What was the best thing you learned that day of the experience at the Greenbrier?  What did you learn about yourself?  
DANNY LEE: That I can win a golf tournament out here.  I think that's very important that you know you can win a golf tournament out here.   
 Q.  Did you wonder about that for a while?  
DANNY LEE: Yeah.  I always did.  I knew I could do it, and I kind of felt that before the round at Greenbrier Classic.  And I did it.   
 Q.  You played 35 times last year.  Any idea how many you're going to play this year?  
DANNY LEE: I have no idea.  It depends how I feel and stuff, but definitely not 35 this year.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT