WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 5, 2016
Danny Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A flash interview with:
DANNY LEE
Q. Talk about today.  How would you characterize it I thought it was pretty solid.
DANNY LEE: Yeah, I got really good start, I guess.  I shot 4-under on the back 9.  I started off with the back first.
I actually got really lucky off the tee at hole 12, the par-5.  No, 13.  Straight out of the rough, I had a nice lie and hit that shot to about 25 feet.  I made easy birdie there, I think.  That kind of got my momentum going.
Q. How tough was the course today with the wind?  And the rough is tough.
DANNY LEE: Yeah, wind was definitely in play today.  It was a little bit different than yesterday.  The greens being so firm, you kind of forced to hit driver at tee shot.  You want to hit a shorter club on second shot.
I drove it well today and was very, very pleased with my round.
Q. We talked about this a lot.  Since your win, you're playing with a lot of confidence.  Heading to this weekend, you've got to be pretty psyched.  You're in good shape.
DANNY LEE: I am.  And it looks like if I get lucky enough I get to play with my friend Rickie.  That's going to be a whole fun day.
Q. You enjoy that?
DANNY LEE: I love it.
Q. 9-under par through two rounds.  Comments on your round today.
DANNY LEE: Obviously I'm very pleased with my round today.  5-under out here is a really good score.
It was really windy at the start.  I guess it didn't affect me that much.  I was 4-under after 9.  I was very pleased with my front 9.  Then I made another birdie on the back 9.  It was a good solid 5-under round.
Q. I don't think you have played the weekend out here before?
DANNY LEE: Yeah, it was actually first time I got to play on the weekend, and I'm very happy about it.  I'm in a good spot for playing the weekend, as well.  I'm very psyched.
Q. What is the practical joke related to Rickie?
DANNY LEE: At the moment we are just waving a white flag at each other, having a rest at the moment, but I can feel a big one coming up from Rickie.
Q. So you're not going to do anything this weekend to try to blow him off?
DANNY LEE: Try not to.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT