PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 17, 2019
Danny Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DANNY LEE: I did struggle out there a little bit with my long game.  And I could have done a little bit better with it, but I did get a tough break on 15 and 16.  And I was actually trying to it on the left greenside bunker on 15 with my second shot, and I saw a hop, it definitely landed toward the bunker, and I don't know how on earth that ball was plugged was into that bunker.
And next hole I was trying to hit it in the front right bunker with my second shot, just stopped short of that bunker and I had a downhill flop shot, not much green, and then by two doubles.  If I just didn't do that, would have been probably 4-under or even better.
I had one heck of a fight on the back nine, made a lot of good putts, a lot of birdies.  And I think I needed that to have a good momentum carryover for tomorrow.
Q. (Indiscernible)?
DANNY LEE: I mean, Bethpage kicked my ass on the front nine.  But, yes, I think I did (indiscernible).
Q. How tough is the wind?
DANNY LEE: It's a totally different wind direction than what we practiced and what we played out here in last the last three days.  I think it's a little bit tougher than yesterday with this wind direction.  But if you're staying in the fairway, I think it's still doable.
Q. Can you talk about (indiscernible)?
DANNY LEE: I don't know.  Doesn't look like I have a different option than -- any other option than just suck it up and keep playing.  And might as well do the -- get the best out of it.  And I made quite a few birdies on the back nine.
Q. Shots playing differently today or holes that really were harder (indiscernible)?
DANNY LEE: Felt like every single hole on the back nine was freaking hard.  I don't know if it was me or the wind.  I don't know.  But, yeah, any of the back nine felt super hard.
Q. You're buddies with Sung Kang?
DANNY LEE: Yeah.
Q. What have you seen from him coming into this (indiscernible) playing well this week, maybe contributing to good play?
DANNY LEE: It's not just the last week, he's been playing good all year.  I think his long game has got a little bit better than what it used to be.  And he's always been a good chipper and good putter.  So I'm not surprised.
Q. Anything you want to work on or change going into the weekend?
DANNY LEE: Everything.  No, probably not.  I'm going to hit some balls and figure out my go-to shots out there with the driver, I think.  If I can hit a little bit more fairways, and I think that's going to be my key.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT