THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 7, 2015
Danny Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Overall thoughts on the week so far and what it's like to be at The Presidents Cup?
DANNY LEE: I cannot wait to go out and play for team international tomorrow, and yeah.
Q. Talk about the golf course, big fairways, it's a Jack Nicklaus course.  Can you compare it other courses that you like?  Do you like the setup?
DANNY LEE: Yeah, I think it's a good setup for everybody.  If you can mix it up with the long hitters and good ball-strikers and good putter, I think you can do really well out here.  I think the green is the main key out here.  There's a lot of tiny slopes around the greens and on the greens, so putting is going to be critical this week.
Q. The pairings just came out and you'll be playing with Marc Leishman.
DANNY LEE: Nice.
Q. Talk about your pairings.
DANNY LEE: We played a little game as a team yesterday.  We shot 7-under as a team and tied with the other group, which is good.
Q. Playing fourball?
DANNY LEE: Yes.  And I think we are going to be a good match.  Marc is hitting it good and putting it good, and I'm doing the same thing, so I think it will be a good match.
Q. Do you like the matchup?
DANNY LEE: Tomorrow?  Am I playing against Jordan Spieth tomorrow?  I don't know.
Q. What do you know about Marc Leishman and what is it you're looking forward to tomorrow?
DANNY LEE: Well, I think we hit about similar distance.  He hits his driver a little bit further than me.  And we are both pretty aggressive players.  And we're both really good at putting.  So if one of us is on the green, I think we are going to have a birdie chance anywhere on the green.
Q. And just on a little lighter note, Rickie was in here yesterday saying that -- back in your hands, and we're here on your home turf.  Any plans to continue this on with him?
DANNY LEE: Probably it's going to happen eventually sometime this week.  But I haven't figured out the way to do it because he's deep inside the US team.  I don't want to get harassed by a whole team (laughs).  Hopefully I'll get him really good this week.
Q. Talk about what you're looking forward to most tomorrow?
DANNY LEE: I'm looking forward to everything, the crowds, the match, playing for the International Team, and I'm right here in The Presidents Cup.  I am just honored and happy to be here, and I have a chance to actually help the International Team, and I'm going to do my best to do whatever I can do to get an extra point or the half point.  I'm going to do my best in my power.
Q. Can you talk about playing Jordan tomorrow?
DANNY LEE: It's going to be fun.  We played quite a bunch during this year.  I was a little bit bummed out about during the John Deere Classic, I had a one-stroke penalty and just missed a playoff on the last hole of the John Deere Classic.
I think it's going to be fun, but it's a team game, not a single game this week.  I'm going to do my best to help the team.
Q. Being a rookie, obviously the first time, but talk about the desire the Internationals have this year.  What's going to be different this year?
DANNY LEE: Well, first thing I notice, there's a lot of young people on this International Team.  If you look at the name of the International Team this year, they all played very, very well, and they are very, very good players in our team, all of them.
I think it's going to be an exciting match this year.
Q. Being from Korea --
DANNY LEE: Born in Seoul.  I grew up here.
Q. What does it mean to bring an event of this stature to South Korea, for what seems to be a bunch of people who love golf?
DANNY LEE: I mean, there's a lot of diehard fans in Korea.  It just doesn't feel like I'm in a different country.  I grew up here playing golf a little bit, and I still feel like I'm at home.  So I think it's a good thing.
Q. What do you expect this week from the fans, what type of reception for the internationals, as well as the American Team?
DANNY LEE: Hope they don't cheer for America (laughter).  Hopefully they will cheer for Team International, and I believe they are going to do that starting tomorrow.
Q. Do you have a lot of family here?
DANNY LEE: Yes, I do.
Q. So you've gotten a lot of ticket requests?
DANNY LEE: Yes, I have at least 30-plus people coming over.
Q. And how has that been with the balance between friends and family, the team commitments that you all have to be together in the same hotel, team activities; how do you find the balance?
DANNY LEE: I know you want to spend a lot of time with the family, but still, it's a team game.  So we're trying to make it very limited, the International Team.  We're just trying to be as focused as possible during this week and we don't want to get distracted or anything like that.
Q. So being from here, what is the most -- or has there been a hot question about the culture, the food, what goes on here from other members of the team, something funny they might have asked you?
DANNY LEE: I don't know.
Q. Maybe trying certain food, what is it, what does it taste like; can I eat this.
DANNY LEE: Last night we had a team dinner at the Korean restaurant and they put live octopus in the soup.
Q. How'd that go?
DANNY LEE: Everybody was freaking out, like Jason Day almost fainted right in front of the soup pot.  I've seen it happen a couple times before but I don't really like that soup.  I was shocked that came out.
Q. What's your first memories of The Presidents Cup?
DANNY LEE: I don't know, it's just I watched The Presidents Cup -- it's just a very honored game.  I don't know, I've seen a lot but I can't really seem to remember what's best.
Q. How has K.J. being assistant on this team, helped you as well as the rest of the team?
DANNY LEE: He's been really great.  He's doing his best to get our team sorted out and get it straight, except our dinner last night (laughter) that was a little bit shocking.
But beside that, everything's been great and he's doing his best.  Not just K.J.; Captain Price and everybody, all the captaining doing their best to try to beat America.  They are doing a great job.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT