THE BARCLAYS
August 27, 2015
Danny Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 4-under par today, excellent start.  If we can get some comments on your round.
DANNY LEE: It was a very good day for me today.  I was hitting it off the tee very nicely.  If you do that out here often, it's not a long golf course out here, so you get a lot of birdie chances, a lot of short irons in.
And I had quite a few birdie chances out there I didn't make, but the greens are so severe, it can happen out here.  But I'm still happy with what I shot today, and 4-under is a good start.
Q. How excited are you about the Playoffs after the season that you've had and the improvements that you've made?
DANNY LEE: Very excited.  Obviously I'm just really happy to be in the Playoffs and playing in the Playoffs, and I'm No. 10 -- I believe I'm No. 10 on the Playoffs ranking, and I'm just thrilled to be here and very excited.
Q. Are you pleased with your major season?
DANNY LEE: Not really.  I believe it was all my first time playing in a major as a professional, U.S. Open, British Open.  It all kind of came -- I wasn't expecting to play in it so I didn't prepare myself very well.  I always got fatigued and I didn't show my best performance there but next year I'll have a better idea what I have to do, and I learned a lot this year.  So, yeah.
Q. You talked about the greens.  What is it about these greens that makes them so difficult?
DANNY LEE: The greens out there is just so severe, some greens, even if you have a four foot, downhill, right-to-left birdie putt, you can't just aim at the right center and try to ram it in.  If you miss the cup, you might roll off the green here.  It's just percentages on the greens is very severe.
Q. Do you like that?
DANNY LEE: Obviously today I did.  I shot 4-under.  Yeah, I don't mind fast, slopey greens I guess.
Q. Can you talk about how much The Presidents Cup is on your mind right now?
DANNY LEE: A lot.  I'm right on it.  I'm right in it.  I'm No. 10 in The Presidents Cup right now.  Hopefully I'll hang on to that spot until next week.  I believe next week is the last week for picking The Presidents Cup.  It has a little bit of pressure on me but I had a very nice round today, which gives me a little relief.
Q. Have you spoken to Nick Price about that at all?
DANNY LEE: We met during the Bridgestone briefly but he was too busy with something else.
Q. Is that the first time you met him?
DANNY LEE: Yeah, first time ever, and I was like, oh, my God, it's Nick Price (laughing).






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT