WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 6, 2015
Danny Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Danny, 5-under today.  Playing with a lot of confidence now, I would imagine.  DANNY LEE: Yes, it was a good day for me.  I left couple short birdie putts out there.  It's hard for me to say.  It may sound a little bit too greedy, but I did.  And I was hitting it that good, and I was very happy with my result.   Q.  You said you hit a good number of 3-woods with the firm conditions, and you were still able to get it out there pretty well?  DANNY LEE: Yeah, the course out there is in such phenomenal conditions out there.  It's very firm, greens rock hard.  If you can just hit the fairways, you're getting a lot of the short irons.  Because the fairway is so firm you can hit the ball very, very far out there. I think that's the key to play this golf course, keep hitting it on the fairway and give yourself a chance.  If you happen to miss a fairway, just try to roll it off the front of the green, and hopefully you'll make up and down.   Q.  Danny, what's been the key for you for maintaining this momentum since the Greenbriar?  DANNY LEE: Probably confidence.  I don't think there's any doubt.  In my shots out there, I'm putting 100 percent confidence in every shot out there, and it's been very good to me.  Hopefully, I can get this thing going.   Q.  You've played here before?  DANNY LEE: Yes, back in '09.   Q.  I was just asking how that happened.  How did you get in in '09?  DANNY LEE: I won the European Tour event as an amateur, and I got in here.   Q.  Welcome back.  DANNY LEE: Thank you.   Q.  How different is this place than six years ago?  DANNY LEE: Very different then.  Back then, I was just happy shooting somewhere high 70s.  It was a very, very tough course for me back then, and it still is out there when your game's not on.  But it just feels a little bit more comfortable out here this year, this week, yeah.  It's good.   Q.  Is it weird having a World Golf Championship a week before a major?  DANNY LEE: It's a very hard, long stretch.  You can burn your brain pretty quickly.  I'm trying not to do that and just play.  Go out there and just try to have fun because it's a four-round -- guaranteed four-round game.  So I'm not worrying about the cut so much. I think it's tough for everybody, but I like it, though.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT