JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 12, 2015
Danny Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  DANNY LEE: I guess I was feeling nerves at the start.  I missed a lot of short ones, especially No. 2 hurt me pretty badly, 3-putt from 20 feet for an eagle chance.  I wasn't making that many putts on the front nine, and I was battling out pretty good, me and Jordan on the Back 9.  And I hit a really good second shot.  It just rolled over, and I ended up in the toughest spot ever back there.Q. At that point were you thinking, be aggressive, go for the birdie and the win?DANNY LEE: Yes.  I was going for it.  And unfortunately, I misread that last putt and that's what happened.Q. Take me through what happened on No. 4.  Obviously it was lift, clean and place earlier in the week.  Was it just an instinct?DANNY LEE: Yeah, I was doing lift, clean and place the whole day yesterday, and without just thinking, I put the tee behind me ball and picked it up, and my caddie is going it's not lift, clean and play today.  I'm like, oh, wow.  So a one-stroke penalty.Q. How were you able to bounce back and get a share of the lead after a mistake like that early in the round?DANNY LEE: I was hitting it very, very good, so I wasn't worrying about it.  I was just hoping to start making putts, and which I did starting on 9.Q. I'll I guess start with how disappointing is it not to be in that playoff?DANNY LEE: Very.  Very disappointing, but I gave my best, and I had a rough start with the one-stroke penalty, picking the ball up.Q. Talk about that.  What happened in that situation?DANNY LEE: I was just shocked, what did I just do.  Well, what can I do?  I made a mistake, and I got over it and tried to hit my best shot, which I did, but if I made a couple more putts on the front nine, I would be out there and might be in a playoff.Q. Were you just thinking lift, clean and place from yesterday then?DANNY LEE: Yeah.  Pretty much.  I wasn't thinking anything.  I just put a tee behind the ball and picked it up, and oh, no, wait a minute, it's not lift, clean and place.Q. Did you realize what you had done or did somebody say something to you?DANNY LEE: Yeah.  My caddie did.  It's lucky I didn't clean my ball.  It would have been a worse situation.  But it was just -- I think I'm pretty happy with one-stroke penalty and I got away with it.Q. Talk about the round in general today.  Were you pleased with how you played?DANNY LEE: It was a good battle.  I had a rough start.  I mean I was hitting it so good on the front nine.  I just didn't putt, some of the putts I just -- would not go in.  It's just denying me.  And I was starting to play better starting nine and making some birdies, and I had a clutch birdie on 16, but 18 I just -- I think I got a bad break on the back side.  I was right in that tough area.Q. Did you have too much club out of the fairway or what --DANNY LEE: I mean I was in the rough, going under the tree, through the gap, water left.  What can I do; right?Q. It's still two strong weeks for you.  You've gotta feel confident here heading into the British Open.DANNY LEE: Yes.  I'm very confident about it, and I feel like I can accomplish anything right now, and hopefully I'll have another good week next week.Q. What does it do for you playing so strong like this after breaking through last week?DANNY LEE: I don't know.  Hopefully I'll get into the Presidents Cup and play a single match with Jordan and try to beat him there.Q. Did you enjoy being paired with him here?DANNY LEE: Yeah.  I loved it.  He's a nice guy, great player, and we both played very well today.  And it was exciting day.Q. Were you comfortable with the crowds?  You were talking about that yesterday.DANNY LEE: Yeah, I loved it.  I loved that the fans were so nice to me out there.  They were obviously cheering on Jordan, but they were also cheering me very hard, and I was very happy with that.  And I just love this place.Q. Are we going to see you back?DANNY LEE: Yes, definitely.Q. I could see yesterday when you were speaking committee press conference, I mean there's a determination in you that you truly believe that you can play with anyone.DANNY LEE: Yes.  Yes, I can.Q. Okay.  Well, we wish you the best.DANNY LEE: All right.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT