JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 11, 2015
Danny Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: Good afternoon, everyone.  We'd like to welcome Danny Lee into the interview room here at the John Deere classic.  Danny, you did it last week.  You're right back up there again.  What was going right today?   DANNY LEE: I started off really nice.  I birdied the first three holes, and that definitely gives me a momentum of starting a good day.  And so it was a good day.   THE MODERATOR: All right.  We'll get into questions.   Q.  Did you ever feel fatigued?  Sometimes it's hard to come back the week after that first win and put together a good performance.  What were you feeling?  DANNY LEE: I was fatigued for Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, but starting Thursday I was back normal.  I was 100 percent, and I was playing really good.  Just a couple of putts just didn't go in at the start, but it happened today.  So I'm not worried about it.   Q.  These last couple of weeks (indiscernible) previous?  DANNY LEE: Probably my driver.  And my ball striking has been really good.  I don't miss that many fairways now at the moment.  Probably that's a big key to my game right now.   Q.  Talk about going into tomorrow, Jordan Spieth is right there.  Is that a challenge to you?  Do you look forward to that challenge?  Talk about (indiscernible)?  DANNY LEE: What I know is there's going to be a lot of people watching us tomorrow.  And hopefully many people will pull for me, not Jordan.  (Laughs).  Just to make it fair.  (Laughs). You know, I think it's going to be a fun day.  I cannot wait.  And let's see what happens tomorrow.   Q.  Danny, after last week, did you think you would be able to come in here and be in contention again and were you worried about it taking a lot out of you and being tough to rebound?  DANNY LEE: I'm just letting myself go, because I'm playing so great right now.  And probably my confidence level is up, more than 150 percent.  And at the moment I feel like I can accomplish anything right now.   Q.  You told me 130 yesterday.  DANNY LEE: I shot 9-under today.  (Laughs).   Q.  I remember when you had the big (check) in the Western Am and the U. S. Am about three weeks.  I wonder why it's taken so long (check)?  DANNY LEE: I mean there's a difference in amateur golf and professional golf, and there's a big, huge mountain in front of you, and it took me a very long time for me to walk up that hill and go past that mountain. It was fun, but not fun.  There's a lot of rough times out there, but I always go back to the driving range and work on my game.  And I mean I -- I was hard on myself, but I try to not too carried away.   Q.  Second week.  (Indiscernible)?  DANNY LEE: Oh, really?   Q.  (Indiscernible).  Can you talk about --  DANNY LEE: I haven't won the tournament yet.  (Laughs).  So I don't know what it's like, but I'm close and I can feel it.  And all I can do is go out there and try my best tomorrow.   Q.  Did you watch the end of Jordan's round?  DANNY LEE: Yeah.   Q.  Did that just make you go, I shot 9-under and I'm still behind.  What the heck?  DANNY LEE: Yeah, it was a little bit ridiculous.  (Laughs).  He holed out from 80 yards on 17 and made birdie on 18.  That's Jordan Spieth, and he's been playing really, really good the last couple of years and this year, too.  Plus he's winning everything right now.   Q.  How do you get over, you know, you see that and you're going, wow, he's just on a run right now.  How do you get over that mentally and say, I can still win this tournament?  He might be the favorite.  He might be the guy that's winning majors, he might be -- but how do I win the tournament?  DANNY LEE: My best answer is just go out there and play and see what happens.  I mean there's nothing you can do.  You can't -- you can't do anything about Jordan.  You don't know how well he's going to play tomorrow.  Nobody knows that, and all I can do is give my best, 100 percent every shot.  And I^  make my last putt on 18 and we'll find out the results, I guess.   Q.  Have you played Jordan (indiscernible)?  DANNY LEE: It was my first time ever getting in a special group as a professional, and I was very pumped up, and it was a very fun round.  And Jordan was a super nice guy, and also Brian is a nice guy, too.  So really enjoyed it. Jordan kind of struggled at the first round, but he had a great round at that second round, and we kind of all didn't play our A game, but we were just hanging onto it and I guess we finally made it through and played great today.   Q.  Were you comfortable playing with him the first two days?  DANNY LEE: Yeah.  Why shouldn't I be?   Q.  I just didn't know if your surroundings, like you said, your first --  DANNY LEE: Yeah, I mean one thing that was different about it, there was lots of people walking with him, and I love playing in crowds.  I think it's better than nothing.  And they are not just pulling for Jordan, and they were also cheering for me, and I was very happy about that.   Q.  In a tournament like this where (indiscernible) 9-under, how important is it being in those last couple of groups to see what happens?  DANNY LEE: I mean all I can say is we put ourselves in a good chance to win a golf tournament, and tomorrow is coming up.   THE MODERATOR: All right.  Thank you so much, Danny.  Good luck tomorrow.   DANNY LEE: Thank you.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT