AT&T BYRON NELSON
May 28, 2015
Danny Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.     Another ho-hum day?  
DANNY LEE:   A member's bounce today.   Was definitely a home course advantage, I guess, and I'm just really blessed I was able to make Hole-in-One in front of all my friends and fans out there and I also made an eagle on hole No. 7, the par 5.   It was a fun day today.  
   
 Q.   How many Hole-in-Ones do you have?  
DANNY LEE:   Including this one, it's three.   Made a Hole-In-One at U.S. Open qualifier and Humana Challenge last year and today Byron Nelson on 17.  
   
 Q.   What kind of club did you hit?  
DANNY LEE:   I hit 5-iron.   A little bit hurting wind.   I think I had 185 flag, low.   5-iron.   It was just perfect shot I, guess.  
   
 Q.   Roll in or hop in?  
DANNY LEE:   It land like probably couple feet short of the hole and kind of disappeared.  
   
 Q.   When you say friends and family, like how many friends and family do you have out here?  
DANNY LEE:   There's quite a lot out there especially on Hole 17.   And it was just so much fun.  
   
 Q.   Well, it gets pretty loud there.  
DANNY LEE:   It was pretty loud.   I think I made someone else's day and I'm pretty happy about it, pretty proud of it.   It was a good day.  
   
 Q.   How long have you been a member here?  
DANNY LEE:   Seven years.   Ever since I moved here.   I've been practicing here and --  
  
 Q.   How many times have you played 17 just practice, a lot?  
DANNY LEE:   That's a tough question.   Every time I take a week off and if I want to go out and play, I play with one of the -- one of my best friends out there.   I play quite a bit on this golf course and probably I know how many trees out there on the whole golf course.  
   
 Q.   Do you live in Irving or --  
DANNY LEE: I live like three minutes away from the course.  
   
 Q.   That's what I thought.   Okay.   What did you do with the ball?  
DANNY LEE:   Well, my caddy has got it.   I think he forgot about giving it to me.   I think he's going to put it on eBay or something.  
   
 Q.   What's your caddy's name?  
DANNY LEE:   Curt "Coalu".   
   
 Q.   How do you spell that?  
  DANNY LEE:   C-O-A-L-U-K or something.  
   
 Q.   Okay.  
DANNY LEE:   It's Canadian.   Got a hard name.  
   
 Q.   What happened on No. 7?   People do eagle that hole.  
DANNY LEE:   Yeah.   Mine it was definitely doable today.   It was straight downwind.   Hit a good drive right in the middle of the fairway.   Good 5-wood.   Hit it to about 20 feet and made the putt.  
   
 Q.   Have you gotten close on 17?  
AOn 17 in practice at all --  
   
 Q.   Probably peppered it a few times.  
DANNY LEE:   Many times but never really made a Hole-In-One before.  
   
 Q.   I wanted to ask you about you got to play in the afternoon.   Had things dried out a little bit?  
DANNY LEE:   It's definitely drying out and definitely playable out there but still we're playing preferred lies because fairway is so wet.   Hopefully weather stays like this next four days.   I think we're going to have a good shape by the time we reach Sunday.   Hopefully green and fairway firms up and scoring condition will be little bit tougher.  
   
 Q.   Much wind out there this afternoon?  
DANNY LEE:   Oh, yeah.   Very windy out there.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT