ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 20, 2015
Danny Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Danny, tremendous round.   If we can get some comments.  
DANNY LEE:   Must be the yellow pants.  
   
 Q.   Kevin missed the memo.  
DANNY LEE:   I was hitting it really well yesterday, didn't really make a lot of putts but today I hit it just as good or better and I made a lot of putts inside 20 feet.   Very happy with it and, you know, today just I have a mindset of just playing match play, almost playing in a match play with Morgan which helped me a lot and I beat him by one today so I'm happy.  
   
 Q.   How was it to shoot 8-under but only gain a shot on him?   You still gained a shot.  
DANNY LEE:   Yeah.   I mean not out of it, I'm still in a good position and I really like where I'm at right now and hopefully we'll be paired together again on Sunday.  
   
 Q.   Can you give an example of one hole where that match play mentality helped you in particular or maybe --  
DANNY LEE:   I birdied the first two holes.   I did that mentality in my head.   I just knew everything is going to be really smooth and nice after making some birdies on the first two holes.  
   
 Q.   Why, because of the condition of the course and the greens and no wind?  
DANNY LEE:   Perfect golfing condition out there and stayed calm and greens so pure and fairways really nice.   Just perfect.  
   
 Q.   So you sort of almost in a way maybe rode his coattails, he's playing well, you're just trying to match him.  
DANNY LEE:   Right.   Right.  
   
 Q.   It worked.  
DANNY LEE:   Yeah.   We play with someone just as good the next couple rounds.  
   
 Q.   Wasn't frustrating for you at all to not really dig into his lead as much?  
DANNY LEE:   No.   No.   It's only Friday so two more rounds up ahead.   It's all about giving yourself a chance I think in the first tree rounds and Sunday back-9, that's where everything happens.  
   
 Q.   Best round of the year for you?  
DANNY LEE:   Yes.   Yes.   I was playing 7 straight weeks in the early -- beginning of the season this year and I was so tired from playing so many in a row so I played 7 straight weeks but I was exhausted and my team, it's time to have a break and I took Puerto Rico off and had a really, really good time with my family back in Dallas and it's amazing what refresh mind can do in this game.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT