VALERO TEXAS OPEN
March 27, 2014
Danny Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  DAVE SENKO:   We'll get started.   Danny, thanks for joining us.   4-under, 68 today.   Birdied four of your last five holes so a great finish. 
Maybe just talk a little about your day and get some questions.
DANNY LEE:   Yeah.   It was a really nice day for me.   I was hitting it really well.   I wasn't making enough putts in the early round but at the end I made some 15-footers and 25-footers to shoot 4-under today.   It was a good day for me.
DAVE SENKO:   What kind of conditions, what were the conditions like when you first started?   When did it start to change?
DANNY LEE:   You mean --
DAVE SENKO:   Weather with the fog, still foggy and kind of overcast.
DANNY LEE:   I wasn't really expecting to see fog in Texas.   I've never seen that before.   Weird.   I think the fog kind of helped my tee time playing in like the warmer condition, that definitely helped me a lot because it's a really long golf course, this one, and that really helped me a lot, I think.
DAVE SENKO:   Okay.   Questions? 

Q.   Can you expound on that a little bit meaning you had to start -- tee off a little bit later and maybe by the time the fog lifted it was warmer and helped you to play better?
DANNY LEE:   Right.   I mean obviously in the cold morning ball not going to travel as far because air is a lot heavier and the wet fairways and that kind of stuff happens but I think two and a half hour delay really helped me a lot.
DAVE SENKO:   What time did you actually get started?   What was your tee time with the change?
DANNY LEE:   I think it was 11:50.   Lunchtime (laughter).
DAVE SENKO:   Did you get word so you arrived a little bit later or were you on-site?
DANNY LEE:   I was on-site but after I got two hour delay text.   I went back to room and just relaxed a little bit.

Q.   How long were you back in your room maybe, you say --
DANNY LEE:   Sir?

Q.   How long were you back in your room before you came back out?
DANNY LEE:   Just hour and a half, I think.

Q.   How would you sort of describe your season to date?
DANNY LEE:   Well, ever since I finished 2nd at Puerto Rico everything a little bit changed for me.   I was starting to act more positive, I was believing in every shot I hit and I was believing in my game and stuff.   It definitely feels better, everything is better, I think.

Q.   How would you kind of compare your game and how your pro career has maybe gone compared to how you thought it might go after '08 and all the things you did back then?
DANNY LEE:   Well, I think I did pretty good.   I was always around on the PGA TOUR and the Web.com Tour and European Tour and playing all that great Tours for last four, five years gave me lot of experience and I learned what I have to do with my game and how to manage my schedule and stuff and I think I'm putting all those puzzles together nicely.

Q.   What were some of the maybe more difficult things you've kind of -- you talk about learning but about you've learned and kind of just the biggest improvements you made as a pro since then?
DANNY LEE:   I think it's my attitude.   I'm more positive right now.   Like I said before, I'm really believing in myself and I know I can do this and just attitude changed me, I mean changed my game quite a lot, I think.

Q.   You live in Texas now?
DANNY LEE:   Yes, I do.

Q.   Irving?
DANNY LEE:   Yes.

Q.   How long have you lived there?
DANNY LEE:   Five years.

Q.   Wanted to clear that up.   Good.
Can you talk a little bit about this course and also about the last five holes?
DANNY LEE:   Well, it's a monster golf course.   I mean it's a very, very long golf course.   Par-5s are not reachable in two because they're all over 600 yards and every hole feels like it's against the wind which doesn't help, and you've got to hit your tee shot really straight and hit your second shot in the right area to putt.   Give yourself an uphill putt helps a lot.   And I was doing that really great today and last five holes I didn't know I made four birdies.   It just happened.

Q.   How would you describe your attitude before Puerto Rico?
DANNY LEE:   Well, I was kind of doubting myself should I say?   I wasn't really commit to every shot I hit.   I was always thinking what the bad shots that are good shot and which shot I'm going to hit, which didn't help me, help my game at all.   So, I read kind of mental books and I think improved a little bit.

Q.   Did the better attitude lead to the good finish or did the good finish lead to the better attitude?
DANNY LEE:   I don't know.   What do you think (laughter)?

Q.   You played Augusta a few years ago as the U.S. Amateur Champion and turned pro the next day.   Do you miss Augusta or you have to be patient knowing you'll get back there one day?
DANNY LEE:   I do miss Augusta.   I'm not the only one missing Augusta.   I think it's every player's dream to go there, play every year and right now I'm not thinking that far right now, I'm just thinking about this week, tomorrow, next shot.   Got to stay the in the zone, I think.

Q.   Somebody earlier had mentioned that I think it was Pat Perez said he gave up on training, doesn't workout, doesn't have an exercise regimen, kind of focuses on shot by shot versus the hard training and practice rounds because he felt tired a lot. 
What kind of training regimen do you have?   Do you go to the weights, do you just kind of focus on the course itself each time you go to a new course?
DANNY LEE:   Well, I've been working quite a lot around the greens and my putting I just switched, switched to claw grip week before Puerto Rico and my putting is the most improvement this month, I think.   And I should say I practice hard everyday and I love working out in the gym after practicing.
DAVE SENKO:   Okay.   Anymore questions?   Thank you Danny.
DANNY LEE:   Sure.   Anytime. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT