PUERTO RICO OPEN PRESENTED BY SEEPUERTORICO.COM
March 9, 2014
Danny Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Danny, you gave it a good run there at the end.   Do you want to just take us through the final round and what was going on through your head.
DANNY LEE:   Well, to be honest with you, I was really nervous this morning.   I didn't really sleep at all.   I woke up at 5:30 in the morning without no reason.   I guess I was really nervous, and I think because of that I wasn't playing my best at the first nine holes.
I mean I made some couple birdies and couple bogeys.   But after that I got a lot more relaxed and I just keep believing in myself, I can do this, I can do this.   And was starting to make more birdies at the end, which I'm really pleased with that.

Q.   You put a lot of pressure on there at the end, birdies on 16, 17.
DANNY LEE:   And 18.

Q.   Yeah, and 18.   I mean you did all you could really at the end there.
DANNY LEE:   Yeah.   I mean I really felt like I did my best, I gave it my best, but Chesson was just playing rock solid.   He made a couple of good up‑and‑downs from bad tee shots.   And you know, when he plays like that, it's just really hard to catch.   He just didn't make any silly mistakes at all.

Q.   You gotta be happy with your finish, it's your second Top 10 on TOUR and it gets you in next week on Tampa also?
DANNY LEE:   Yeah.   I'm really happy with that.   My number wasn't that good, so I was a bit worried.   I'm really happy I can go down there and have another opportunity of a good week, and I'll look forward to it.

Q.   Is it tough for you to do your part and still don't have the win or are you pleased with the way you just finished?
DANNY LEE:   Well, obviously I'm a little bit is it disappointed is the right word?   Is it I am a little bit disappointed.   I felt like I really played good this week, and I was making good putts, good shots, a lot of good shots.   And I was making good up‑and‑downs, but I did all I could do, so I'm pleased with solo second, and I'm just really happy I'm playing next week.

Q.   Is it just golf?
DANNY LEE:   I guess it is. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT