THE MCGLADREY CLASSIC
October 18, 2012
Danny Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What all did you do well today?  
DANNY LEE:   Just everything.   Front nine I was really hot.   I was driving it great, hitting it great and making all of the putts I was looking.   Missed like one green today, two greens.   And yeah, I was striking it really nicely and putted well and made a really nice eagle on seven, I think.   Long tee shot and nice draw, 3‑wood.   Hit it to about ten feet and made that putt.   Really great feeling.  
   
 Q.   What's the end of the year like when you're trying to make some money and get some good finishes?  
DANNY LEE:   It feels like I got fire on my ass right now.   (Laughs).   Just want to maintain this because I want to play on the PGA TOUR for a long, long time.   Top 150 you still get into a few events, so that's what I'm actually looking right now, but after this round, might turn around.  
   
 Q.   Is it a little more stressful than other events?  
DANNY LEE:   Yeah.   A little bit.  
   
 Q.   Can you feel the stress when you're playing?  
DANNY LEE:   No, not when I'm playing, but when I'm just standing out there and thinking about my future, it's like, oh, this is not good.   
   
 Q.   Danny Lee, 5‑under par 65, wonderful start to this event.   
DANNY LEE:   Thank you.  
   
 Q.   I was very impressed when I joined you at the way you drove the ball.   You were splitting every fairway it looked like.   
DANNY LEE:   Yeah, I was hitting my driver really good today, and couple drives went really far, too.   I was actually shocked I can hit it that far.   I didn't know I can hit it that far.  
   
 Q.   And tell me about the conditions because it appeared to me that the wind began to kick up a little bit in the afternoon.   Did it start to change things much?  
DANNY LEE:   No, not really, except 16th hole, I just hit my second shot too soft.   It was a full gap wedge, but I kind of smudged my pitching wedge and ended up short and couldn't get up and down there.   Besides that everything was good.  
   
 Q.   You talk about up‑and‑downs.   That save on 18 was a good one.   That's good for the momentum, isn't it?  
DANNY LEE:   Yes.   It wasn't a good second shot, but it was a good bunker shot, and made that putt and I'm very happy with that putt.  
   
 Q.   5‑under par 65, good luck for the rest of the week.   
DANNY LEE:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT