UBS HONG KONG OPEN
December 2, 2011
Danny Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Tell us about today.   Because you really caught fire on that back nine, didn't you.   
DANNY LEE:   Yeah, I was hitting it really great opponent the front nine, and I didn't make a lot of putts on the front nine.   But something clicked on the back nine, and putts started to drop.   And, yeah, I made a lot of birdies on the back nine.   
   
 Q.   What clicked?   What was it?   Was there one moment, that you thought, oh, well be my day?   
DANNY LEE:   No, I've been using the belly putter for only about six weeks right now, and I'm trying to still get used to how to use the belly putter and trying to get used to it.   
And I'm trying a lot of things when I'm playing and when I'm practising, grip it longer and shorter, and back nine, I think I grip it short a little bit, and it worked great.   I think I will stick with that for this week, and hopefully they will keep dropping like on the back nine I played today.  
   
 Q.   There was a sudden up surge in a lot of players using belly putters as a result of seeing the success of other people.   
DANNY LEE:   Yeah, I mean, as soon as the field changed to a belly putter, that's the time all the players are trying to get the belly putter from all of the manufacturers.   I think the belly putter is great for me and for other players I guess.   Yeah, it's helping me a lot.   
   
 Q.   You obviously felt there was a need for some change, and everybody is always looking for an improvement, but this has been a good year, hasn't it.     
DANNY LEE:   Yes, it's been a tough year, and it's been a really successful year for me, because trying to play two tours in one year, it's not an easy thing to do, and I'm trying to depend on both cards, which is harder.   And I secured my PGA Tour card‑‑ not secure, I got my PGA Tour card before I came over here, and now I played really good at Singapore and I secured The European Tour card.   I'm really happy with what I've done.   
I'm just trying to play all the best golf tournaments and I'm just happy to come over everywhere, not just the U.S. and Hong Kong or Singapore, all of those big European major events.   I'm just thankful I have an opportunity for playing in that tournament.   
   
 Q.   I imagine thankful that your career has hit another height again, because you enjoyed that success very young, and I suppose it was a little bit quiet after that, wasn't it.   
DANNY LEE:   Yeah, took me kind of two years to get used to my new swing, and it's starting to really pay off, all of that hard work I've done, and everything I did for the last two years.   Yeah, really happy.   
   
 Q.   And now to see how it works under these kind of circumstances, right amongst the leaders into the weekend?  
DANNY LEE:   Yeah, I'm not far away from the leaders, so trying my best to catch up.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT