BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 20, 2010
Danny Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DANNY LEE: Well, I played really good today. I didn't hole many putts as what I usually putt, so really a little bit disappointed about the putter. But I'm striking the ball really good, so I'm really happy about how I played today.   
  
  Q. Did you give yourself plenty of chances on those new greens?   
 DANNY LEE: Yeah, I mean, the course, the greens out there is marvelous. They roll so truly, such nice greens out there. If you hit it in the good spots, they are so makeable.  
  
  Q. Presumably you can see there are differences this year compared to last?  
 DANNY LEE: Actually this is my first time. I didn't actually know what's the change, but as soon as I got here, it's really a nice course. It almost felt like I'm playing in Augusta. So I'm really happy for it.   
  
  Q. What were your thoughts at the last? Does that add to the disappointment?   
 DANNY LEE: Yeah, even on the driving range with my rescue wood, I've been hooking it all day. I really wanted to make birdie on the last and I wanted to go for it, but, you know, that hurt me. But I'll work on the rescue wood and I'll try to make birdie tomorrow, 18.   
  
  Q. So you will continue to go for it?  
 DANNY LEE: If Peter lets me do it.   
  
  Q. I guess it depends on circumstances, doesn't it?   
 DANNY LEE: Yeah, very much.   
  
  Q. Tell me about the man on your bag today?  
 DANNY LEE: Well, he wasn't really grumpy today so I'm happy. He's been out here for a long, long time and everybody is saying he's a legend caddie. He's just a lucky charm to have him on there. I'm really lucky I found him. He's really helpful for me.   
  
  Q. How does it help?   
 DANNY LEE: Everything. Just my game and I feel much more relaxed and he reads the green really nicely over here. So, you know, just happens.   
  
  Q. Do you think he's worth a couple of shots for you today?   
 DANNY LEE: A lot, actually. I had a few bad second shots out there, but you know, I had like a 5-, 6-footer, left-to-right, those kind of putts, always a bit confused but Peter gives me the really good lines. So I saved, I think, at least three shots because of him.   
  
  Q. And you said you struggled with the putter, but you only had 24 putts. How do you explain that?  
 DANNY LEE: Actually, who said that?   
  
  Q. Didn't you stay you struggled with the putter?   
 DANNY LEE: No, not really. I'm putting it really good. Everything was really good today.  
  
  Q. Do you think the changes are fair?   
 DANNY LEE: I don't know what's the change, but it seems like Peter doesn't really like it. He likes easy courses rather than hard and long. He's getting old to walk, those long hauls.   
  
  Q. Great start with eagle?  
 DANNY LEE: Yeah.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT