JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 28, 2009
Danny Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. It's the U.S. Amateur championship this week, you won that tournament last year, what are you memories of that win?   
 DANNY LEE: It's a really long week that week. You have to play 36 holes stroke play and all the way to the Match Play if you get into Top-64 and it's really a hell of a week. I think I do really miss that U.S. Am, and I wish I could go back and play there again, but now I turned pro. So I came over here and played Scotland over here. But the weather is better than what I expected and I'm having fun over here.  
  
  Q. How do you feel about 3-under par for two rounds here?  
 DANNY LEE: Weather was better than what I expected today, and I'm striking the ball really nicely today. I missed a couple of short birdie putts and missed a short par putt on 8 and that was a bit disappointing and made par on the easy par 5, the 9th.   
 I'm pretty happy with my results and I'm hitting it really good this week, so I'm really looking forward to play again tomorrow.  
  
  Q. You've made ten birdies and an eagle already. Do you think if you can eliminate the mistakes, there's a really low score out there for you?  
 DANNY LEE: Did I make that many birdies? Wow. I didn't actually know that but that's amazing to hear.   
 Some of my irons are going really close to the pin this week. So hopefully I don't make many mistakes as the last couple of rounds I did. If I cure that, I will probably have a chance to shoot a low score maybe one day.   
  
  Q. You won the Johnnie Walker Classic earlier this year as an amateur. How did that change your life?  
 DANNY LEE: A lot I think. It's much easier to get into the PGA European golf. Otherwise I have to qualify for it and I didn't really have to worry about Q-School. Life is much easier for me after I won that, and I'm really happy to play a European event.   
 This is actually my first event as a European PGA professional. So I'm really happy to play this week, and it's the same Johnnie Walker event, so hopefully I will do it again.  
  
  Q. You played in America this year; is the plan to play in Europe next year?   
 DANNY LEE: I played there because I just wanted to know how the US PGA feels like, so it was different than over here and the weather is much hotter. I like cold weather and I think I play better in the cold weather, so I think I like it over here better.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT