HP BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 24, 2009
Danny Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DANNY LEE: I'm really just so angry about the last hole. I had a perfect last putt that just went straight. I played really good today, and I got some lucky bounces, a couple of lucky bounces, and just the last hole really let me down. But that's golf. So I have to learn, and hopefully I don't do that next week. 

 Q. Are you looking forward to -- do you feel like this kind of builds a little momentum going into next week for you, even with just missing the last hole? Obviously you had a pretty good golf tournament here. 
 DANNY LEE: I did play really well, and I played better than what I expected. Hopefully I'll do well.

 Q. Does it raise your expectations for next week? Obviously you've won on the European Tour. I'm sure you feel like you can win on this one. 
 DANNY LEE: I do, actually. I'm getting really close, and each tournament I get better and better. But there is so much things I have to learn, how to control the nerves and those last putts there. Hopefully I'll do well next week.

 Q. What happened on that last putt? You said it was an easy one. 
 DANNY LEE: Yeah, it was just right edge. I hit it perfectly, and it just went straight, and I made double. 

 Q. How were the nerves out there today? 
 DANNY LEE: I wasn't really nervous until like 17, and after 17 I got a little bit nervous. But it's getting there.

 Q. A lot of people have high expectations for you, the young Tiger comparisons, that type of thing. Do you think about that, or how do you feel about some of that? 
 DANNY LEE: When I stood on the first tee box I don't think I'm some 18-year-old boy. I'm just the same player like these guys out here, and I always try my best and see how it goes. So I don't really care about what they're saying about me. It's good, what they think about me, next Tiger Woods. That's really special.

 Q. Do you feel like you're making strides toward that, I guess?
 DANNY LEE: It's getting closer and closer. This year my goal is just get the PGA TOUR card for next couple years.

 Q. Are you in Memorial? 
 DANNY LEE: Yeah, I am.

 Q. Colonial and Memorial, and after that?
 DANNY LEE: U.S. Open qualifier.

 Q. Are you doing British Open qualifying?
 DANNY LEE: Yeah, tomorrow. 

 Q. What's kind of your goal for that, the 36-hole qualifier? Do you have a strategy or anything?
 DANNY LEE: Not really. I don't actually know the golf course. I've played there once, but I'll just try my best. 

 Q. Was there a junior tournament there or something? 
 DANNY LEE: No, I played a practice round like two weeks ago, I think. 

 Q. Are you living around here?
 DANNY LEE: Yeah, I just bought a house over here.

 Q. Where, what town? 
 DANNY LEE: Hogan Drive.

 Q. Do you know what town?
 DANNY LEE: Right here.

 Q. In Las Colinas?
 DANNY LEE: Yeah.

 Q. Is this going to be your home track?
 DANNY LEE: Yes.

 Q. How much have you played before on this course?
 DANNY LEE: Once.

 Q. And when did you move into your place? 
 DANNY LEE: This Monday. 

 Q. A lot of stuff going on for you obviously. Are you looking forward to kind of having a place, that now this is going to be kind of a home event for you?
 DANNY LEE: Yeah, it's a great city, Dallas, and I really like it over here. Good place to live.

 Q. You're going to play out of here, or where will you make your home course?
 DANNY LEE: Yeah, I think I'm going to play out here.

 Q. How different does this feel than when you played on the European Tour? Can you tell that much difference?
 DANNY LEE: It's the same tournament, but it has a lot stronger players over here, so it's a bit different. But it's the same golf event. I don't take it as this is PGA TOUR so I have to play well. I don't think like this.

 Q. How have you done as far as furnishing the house?
 DANNY LEE: I'm not sure. That's my parents' job. 

 Q. What drew you to Dallas? Did you know anybody here, or was there any particular reason why you wanted to be based in Dallas?
 DANNY LEE: No, just talking with my parents, my parents really like it over here.

 Q. They're living with you; is that right?
 DANNY LEE: Yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT