ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 21, 2009
Danny Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: New Orleans, your first professional event as a professional. Welcome to the interview room at the Zurich Classic of New Orleans. You were winner of the classic earlier this year. Just give us some comments on the state of your game and your thoughts about being here.
 DANNY LEE: It's really great being here. It's fun being out there. I'm really, really enjoying staying in New Orleans. I think I'm going to have a really exciting week. 

 Q. How much have you played of golf? I know you've been here a little bit already? 
 DANNY LEE: I played here a lot Friday. And I played three or four times. I'm starting to get used to the soft greens, yeah. The course is in pretty good shape, so... 

 Q. Are you excited about this being your first professional event as a professional? 
 DANNY LEE: Yeah. I mean, it doesn't make much difference, but, you know, people are going to think different, I think. Being an amateur and playing with professionals, you know, being professional and playing in professional, I think it's a little bit of different feeling. So, yeah, I think it's going to be different.

 Q. What sort of expectations do you have this week? 
 DANNY LEE: Hopefully, I'll play well, because I'm hitting the ball well and putting it well. 
 So I'm really confident with my game this week, and hopefully, I'll win this event and play in the Players Championship. 

 Q. Have you had a lot of support from your family in New Zealand? 
 DANNY LEE: There's not much. People are always cheering me out there, and everybody supports me hard so it's really nice. 

 Q. What can you tell us about being nervous? Is that sort of feeling gone now as you you get into this or is it different? 
 DANNY LEE: Yeah, I think because it was the first time I played at all in that many media were following me. That was really the first time I'd done that, so I was really nervous with that, because I never had that happen before. Now I'm sort of used to it, and it's getting better. 

 Q. Are you used to playing with all of the guys who are coming here? You've been here for a while and gotten used to it. Do you feel like you fit in? 
 DANNY LEE: Yeah, I think that's the difference with amateur and professional. Being an amateur and playing with all the professional guys. I think I'm on the lower level, and they're professionals. But now I'm a professional, so I've got pretty much same level as they are, I think. 

 Q. (Indiscernible)?
 DANNY LEE: No, not really. Usually just names change. Professional doesn't. 

 Q. Has anybody helped you out so far? Like the good hotels to stay in, the good restaurants? 
 DANNY LEE: Oh, actually, my agent, Kevin Lynch, has been really helping me a lot. You know, how to survive from the PGA TOUR and stuff, so he's been really helpful. Of course, my parents are down here, and they've been supporting me really hard and nicely, too, so, yeah. 

 Q. You played a handful of tour events now. How do they compare to like European Tour events that you played and won and some of the Australian Tour? What's the difference? 
 DANNY LEE: I'm not sure. I don't think there is that many difference. Even I ask do you feel any difference with the European Tour and PGA TOUR? No, it's doesn't really feel different. 
 But the European Tour, you travel more longer. You're on there longer. You spend more time in the airplane, so, I think he said that's the only difference. So I'm feeling that kind of way, too. 

 Q. Have you had any conversations with Greg Norman, the President's Cup captain? Has he spoken to you at all about that? Because I know he mentioned it in his press conference and your name came up. Has he spoken to you about it at all? 
 DANNY LEE: No, unfortunately, I haven't met with Mr. Greg Norman. I was planning to play with him at Augusta, practice round with him. But, unfortunately, he had a long wait before Augusta, so he was taking a rest there that day. But, unfortunately, no. But hopefully I'll meet him and talk about the President's Cup.

 Q. Is it something that's on your mind, in the back of your mind, the President's Cup? 
 DANNY LEE: No, not yet. I don't think I'm that good enough yet. But it's just good Greg Norman thinking of putting me in there, I'm just happy for that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT