JOHNNIE WALKER CLASSIC
February 21, 2009
Danny Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Close on the last there, pretty close?  
 DANNY LEE: Oh, 2 1/2 foot.   
  
  Q. Was your putt closer than Andrew's?   
 DANNY LEE: No, I was just behind.   
  
  Q. What's the verdict on the day?  
 DANNY LEE: You know, not much. I wasn't driving it really well today. I made lots of up-and-downs and made a 3-putt on 16, the par 3, and still same thing as yesterday, just missed lots of short birdie putts and a bit disappointed about that.   
 But ended up pretty good, so happy with that.   
  
  Q. You did tell me yesterday that the main aim coming into the tournament is like most, to make the cut, and anything is a bonus there after.   
 DANNY LEE: It's like it feels different than the first two rounds, I'm already in the cut and all I've got to do is just enjoy and try and play well.  
  
  Q. Were you able to have any relaxation today?   
 DANNY LEE: Yeah, it was really relaxful and the crowds really cheering you on. That's the best part. Loving this moment.   
  
  Q. You get off to a good start tomorrow, you can make up a few shots pretty quickly, can't you?  
 DANNY LEE: The first five holes, if you can get warmed up and get the feel of the greens, I don't know, I could come out early tomorrow --  
  
  Q. What would it mean for you to win this tournament?  
 DANNY LEE: Just a win.   
  
  Q. You would get your European Tour card; you could turn pro.   
 DANNY LEE: I could play in some great European events, one of my dreams.  
  
  Q. The putt on 12 was only about four or five feet; did you miss-read that?  
 DANNY LEE: Yeah, you know, tee-to-green, it's pretty easy out there, but on the green, it's the hottest spot on this golf course I think for me. You know, it's so hard to read these greens, and I'm trying to discuss with caddies, the left edge, outside left, inside left and we were just fighting about that. Just left edge and just had a lipout. Hopefully it will go in tomorrow.   
  
  Q. Apart from when we ask you about the possibility of winning, do you actually think about it overnight; do you think you are so close that there is a chance?   
 DANNY LEE: I'm only like two behind. Yesterday I was only one behind. I still think I can win this tournament. As I said, I'm really happy to make the cut, and all I've got to do is just play well.  
  
  Q. You said yesterday about controlling your emotions and controlling your temper; are you able to control the excitement?   
 DANNY LEE: That's easy. The excitements coming from your practice, I've done lots of practice before this tournament, so really ready for the excitement for tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Any messages from home?   
 DANNY LEE: No, not really. My mom's pretty happy about my rounds.   
  
  Q. Could you just tell us about the 11th? I know you went through a lot of discussion with your caddie there, whether you would have a go at it from the left-hand side.   
 DANNY LEE: I'm really confident about hitting trouble shots with long draws, and I was very confident about that.   
  
  Q. He was trying to get to you just hit it out on the fairway?  
 DANNY LEE: Just hit it out on the fairway. I was thinking about that, but if I left it short, and it has a lot of slopes up there, I would rather hit it on the right side or long. It went really, really long, and I made a great up-and-down from the back.   
  
  Q. Do you know how much money there is for first prize?   
 DANNY LEE: No, I'm not really thinking about that.   
  
  Q. Curious as to whether you did know.   
 DANNY LEE: No.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT