THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 7, 2017
Danny Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Got off to a stumble of a start with an early double bogey, but you were able to show some patience out there and still turn it into a good day.
DANNY LEE: Yeah, I was just as shocked as you are when I made that double on the easy 12.  Supposed to make birdie or par there.  Went for driver off the back and kind of overdid it.  Just made a mess on hole 12.
But it was kind of a windy day and I knew there is still a lot of birdie opportunities out there.  I know I'm hitting it well enough to make some birdies out there.  I kept my patient level cool.
I could have done a little bit better if I holed couple putts coming in, but that's golf, I guess.
Q. That double bogey is the only mark against you.  You're clean in the first round and no bogeys in the second round.  Talk about the hole location at 8 and how quick that putt was from just seven feet above the hole.
DANNY LEE: Yeah, it was such a severe downhill.  Looked like a right edge putt.  We gave it -- we aimed it like four inches right side of the hole because it was severe downslope.  Still, it wasn't enough.
Sometimes it's not about how long the putt is; it's more about where you're at or what kind of putt you have.
Q. I'm guessing thus far it's been a pleasant week as you start defense of your title.  First step towards a successful defense is making the cut, and you've done that.
DANNY LEE: Yeah, it's a good start; 8-under is not a bad place after two rounds, I think.  I think I just got to do what I been doing last couple of days and just keep my head down and then just keep playing.
Q. Just get some comments on your second round.
DANNY LEE: It was kind of a rollercoaster round, I guess.  Started off with a double on hole 12.  It was a big ouch for me.  I usually do pretty good on that hole.  I decide to hit driver off the deck and I overfaded and into the bunker; force myself to layup from there.
Kind of made silly mistakes there, but I knew there was a lot of birdie opportunities out there for me.  I didn't panic at that time and just kept playing.  I'm very happy with the 2-under today.
Q. Sebastien was 13, now at 11.  You're still in really, really good shape heading into the weekend.
DANNY LEE: Yeah.  What I'm thinking is you can't win a golf tournament on the Thursday, Friday, or Saturday.  It's all about last nine holes on Sunday I think really.
If I put myself in the pretty good position on that last nine holes on Sunday I think I'll have a good chance for it.  But like I said, it's too early to tell anything right now.
Q. What was the thinking of driver off the tee?  Why do that?
DANNY LEE: It's usually my fairway-finder shot.  I know it's not going left ever.  I usually aim at the left part of the fairway and try to fade it in there.
That's why I do it.
Q. What type of advantage is it that you won this thing the last time it happened?
DANNY LEE: Obviously it has a good memory for me.  It's not like whole golf course has changed.  Just greens are changed, around the greens are changed, but course itself looks exactly same, which is good for me.
There is a lot of 3-wood tee shots that works great for me out there.  If I just do what I do yesterday and today I think I'll be in a good spot, I think.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT