U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 21, 2008
Danny Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   CRAIG SMITH: Danny, second round win, third round win, you're a quarter finalist and you lost only one hole in the total of those two matches. Are you playing that well?   
 DANNY LEE: Yeah, I mean today I played really, really well. And every putt I had it just fell in the hole.   
 It was an amazing day.   
 CRAIG SMITH: It looked, like you said, it looked like the hole was a peach basket.  
 DANNY LEE: The cup was that big (Indicating). It looked -- every time I held my putter I could feel that it's going to go in.   
 CRAIG SMITH: Is it just that your caddie's helping you, are you seeing the lines like you know exactly where it's going to go?   
 DANNY LEE: I think it's a bit of both. My caddie helped me really, really a lot today.   
 I could sort of see the breaks pretty good.   
 CRAIG SMITH: I know that match play is a funny thing, but you've got a hint here that you're 6 & 4, 7 & 6, you would be the youngest amateur champion ever.   
 DANNY LEE: I haven't finished the tournament yet, but I just didn't want to play the 36 holes today.   
 CRAIG SMITH: You were tired so this is the way to do it.  
 DANNY LEE: Yeah. This is the way to do it.   
  
  Q. If I can remember correctly, you had some matches like this, even at the Western Amateur, some pretty good blow out matches. I mean, what is it about match play that gets you going or that really fires you up?  
 DANNY LEE: The good thing about match play is you don't have to worry about the scores -- you do have to actually worry about the score, but you can always go for it and you can play really aggressive and I think that's the good thing with match play.   
 CRAIG SMITH: That's what you said to me that you did this morning, so that's different than stroke play in that you hit driver and go at every hole location.   
 DANNY LEE: Actually, couple holes, yeah, just going for it. Like hole -- that dogleg right hole? 6 or 7.   
 I was hitting this morning I hit driver and I was 30 yards short of the green. In the afternoon I was 40 yards short of the green. A couple holes you can just bomb driver and go for it.   
  
  Q. You said you were making a lot of putts, but how far were some of these putts? I've seen your iron game and it's pretty darn good. You get it close to the hole most of the time.  
 DANNY LEE: Maybe everything, every putt that I holed was probably inside 25 feet.   
 CRAIG SMITH: Did Connor McHenry help you a little bit by not playing his best? He gave you a concession on the third hole when that one wasn't your best, but you won 1 with a par, 2 with a birdie, and 3 with a concession. That's a lot to stake to a player of your ability.  
 DANNY LEE: That's the match play, you know. I can have a really good day and he can could have an average day and it just happens that way.   
  
  Q. I know you played a lot of holes today, you got to be tired, but how about mentally? Are you going to get mentally tired?  
 DANNY LEE: Yeah, a little bit. Playing Wyndham last week and I keep playing in this stuff here, so it can be.  
 CRAIG SMITH: How will you, between the time you leave the media center here and tomorrow, how will you just go away, forget it and rest? What will you do.  
 DANNY LEE: Just watch a movie? Sleep?   
 (Laughter.)  
  
  Q. What movie?  
 DANNY LEE: A bit of everything. Action, horror, comedy.   
 CRAIG SMITH: And your folks, mom and dad are back home. How do you stay in touch or do they e-mail you, text you?   
 DANNY LEE: No, they call me every day.   
 (Laughter.) It's insane. God.   
 (Laughter.) No, I'm kidding. It's really good to talk to my parents every night, actually.   
 CRAIG SMITH: I think that, is it, what's the time difference? I'm sorry, I don't know. Is it 16.  
 DANNY LEE: I'm not sure. Yeah, I heard that it's 16 hours.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT