U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 20, 2008
Danny Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   CRAIG SMITH: Thanks for coming in. You got off to a pretty good start, 4-up lead, comfortable the whole time, and just generally how did you play? 
 DANNY LEE: I hit the ball really really well. I putted well. And around, even if I hit a couple bad shots, I got really good up-and-downs around the greens. And my game was working well. 
 CRAIG SMITH: The first day you said, well, it could have been worse, you're getting better as you see this course more each day. 
 DANNY LEE: Yeah, before I hadn't played a practice round before, I didn't know which way I have to hit it and which way is the best part of like around the greens to miss. 
 But now I'm starting to now know all that stuff, like which spot is the best place to be in and around the greens and it's helped me play a little bit better and better each day. 

 Q. Do you feel comfortable out there yet not having the practice rounds and having these competitive rounds or is there still some learning going on?
 DANNY LEE: It does make me a little bit nervous and some pressure, but you got to get used to it. I've been playing quite a lot of tournaments this summer and I think I'm starting to get used to that stuff now. 

 Q. By now, yes, you should be. 
 DANNY LEE: Yeah. 

 Q. How many days you played the Western, you played over at Wyndham, how many days of golf have you played in a row or 16 out of 17, is, how much golf have you played the last month?
 DANNY LEE: Oh, I've been playing quite a lot. I played seven tournaments in a row, that's my record. 
 CRAIG SMITH: Might as well keep going. Starting when? Think back to when you started this odyssey. 
 DANNY LEE: Probably started June to end of maybe July. 
 CRAIG SMITH: You had a couple days off between the Western Amateur and going over to play the Wyndham, but then straight here, is that correct? 
 DANNY LEE: Yes. That's correct. 

 Q. This is your seventh day in a row of competitive golf?
 DANNY LEE: Um-hum. 

 Q. Today?
 DANNY LEE: Yeah. 

 Q. You only got four to go. 
 CRAIG SMITH: How badly do you -- the tug between wanting to do better each day and feeling like I really could use a day off. 
 DANNY LEE: You know, I really want to have a break right now, but I can't, because I need to keep playing well and winning my watch matches, but I think it's worth it, playing good, I keep winning.

 Q. Was there a point during the seven tournaments when you felt like you were really starting to hit a groove? Because obviously you've been playing very well of late. But is there a point in the summer when you went, oh my gosh, I'm starting to play well?
 DANNY LEE: Yeah, I was starting to play well after the Western Amateur and getting better and better and I played Wyndham last week and I learned quite a bit from those top golfers. I think that I figured out how to play safe golf and stuff. 

 Q. Did you lose any holes today that were a careless mistake at all?
 DANNY LEE: Yes, I did. What hole is it? Yeah, 8. 

 Q. The 8th hole? That's a long par-4?
 DANNY LEE: I made a mistake there. Yeah. I was going for the flag and I pushed my second shot a little bit to the right side.

 Q. To the right side?
 DANNY LEE: Yeah.

 Q. Toward the refreshment stand?
 DANNY LEE: Yeah. And I didn't make up-and-down from there.

 Q. You did not?
 DANNY LEE: No.

 Q. What did you push?
 DANNY LEE: I think it was a 5-iron. 

 Q. Yeah, that probably is about it. Yeah. You pushed a 5-iron. Okay. Now, that means in match play do you prefer match play where all that meant to you is just one hole lost, you can make it up whereas in medal play, it might have cost you a lot. Is there, does that mean anything to you?
 DANNY LEE: No, not really. Even if you hit one bad shot it doesn't mean you're going to lose lots of strokes in stroke play. It doesn't play like that. All you can do is just say you lost one hole and you can recover.

 Q. Yeah, in match play all you do is lose one hole you can make it up. 
 DANNY LEE: Yeah.

 Q. But in stroke play you had to continue with the baggage you got there, right?
 DANNY LEE: Um-hum.

 Q. In other words, you got what? Did you end up with a bogey or a double bogey?
 DANNY LEE: Bogey. 

 Q. Bogey. Yeah. 
 CRAIG SMITH: Between Korea, New Zealand, how often have you been in the United States? 
 DANNY LEE: This is my third year playing in this summer golf and I really enjoyed it the last couple of years. I really like playing competitive golf in the states. 
 CRAIG SMITH: Tell me a little bit about mom, who drives you, even though she's thousands of miles away. 
 DANNY LEE: My mom is a very angry woman, never happy about my result or my swing. Even when I make up-and-down from like 350 yards she will be grinding on me. But I think that's why that I came up to this level and went this far.

 Q. As fast?
 DANNY LEE: Yeah, as fast, and yeah.

 Q. You said that you like playing in the United States the last two summers, was there a reason then -- my understanding is that you aren't going to try college golf and that you likely might turn professional here in the future. Is there a reason why?
 DANNY LEE: Actually, I just wanted to play, like I said, competitive golf.

 Q. Yeah, get some experience?
 DANNY LEE: Yeah, get some experience at the bigger tournaments, you know and stuff. 

 Q. But no interest in playing college and coming over here and going to school?
 DANNY LEE: No, I didn't say no, but I'm interested in going to college, but I don't know what I would do after this.
 CRAIG SMITH: You have a lot of things to decide in the next 12 months, doesn't you, between high school, college, high school, professional, or just straight professional. Those are all options, aren't they? 
 DANNY LEE: Yes. I don't have much options, my parents say college or professional, either one. 

 Q. Is there a way you're leaning?
 DANNY LEE: Maybe I really want to be a pro, because I don't really like studying, so. 
 CRAIG SMITH: What do you think your chances are this week? 
 DANNY LEE: I don't know, I just got to keep playing well. We'll see. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT