NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIP
March 18, 2016
Nahshon Garrett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Congratulations on your victory.  Would you give a brief statement about your match and then we'll open it for questions.
NAHSHON GARRETT: Yeah, I was pacing around, and we had about a four-minute wait, and I was just checking in with the Lord.  And I was just like, all right, let's get this work.  You know, I believe that in God I won, and I can just express his glory.  It was just awesome.  I just was really excited about that.  I knew I had to attack right away, and I did.  I think he was trying to look for something big, and I don't think he really wanted to wrestle me.  Then it happened the way it happened.
Q. Obviously Cory is a guy who was hot especially coming off of last year, and you had beat him once this year.  What did you learn earlier in the year that helped you with this match tonight?
NAHSHON GARRETT: I learned that if I keep on attacking, there's not a whole lot of people that can stop me.  And I believe that he was a great test of that the first match I wrestled with him because, obviously, he dominated this tournament last year, absolutely destroyed it.  And, yeah -- and it was just great to be able to see how I matched up with competition that was, like, at that level.
Q. You chose to do a new weight class this year, and you look like it's really worked well for you.  Talk about the changes in your game.  What do you think made a difference competing a different set of guys?
NAHSHON GARRETT: It's fresh faces, different styles.  I think the biggest thing is that I was -- just the speed and the quickness and the strength.  I don't think -- the combination that I just possess is just -- just has excelled at this weight class, and it's just magnified here.  I'm not having to worry about cutting weight.  I don't have to worry about food deprivation or starvation that would affect my ability or affect the way I perform.  I'm able to fuel up and feel good and just really show the best me.
Q. I talked to you after your quarter, and you said there was going to be fireworks.  There were fireworks.  How fired up are you and how fired up is the Cornell staff?
NAHSHON GARRETT: It's absolutely surreal.  After, I was just like, did that just happen?  I thought I was in a dream for a second.  I didn't realize what was going on.  Yeah, I said it, and I'm glad I was able to deliver.  Yeah.
Q. It looks like you'll be facing Cory Clark in the finals.  What do you know about him, and what will be your strategy heading into that match?
NAHSHON GARRETT: He's solid.  He's basic.  He just has great position, and it's just -- I mean, he's obviously a good opponent, but you've got to have a little bit more.  You've got to have a pop.  You've got to have some speed.  You've got to have a little bit more than just basic.  And I think that's something I'm able to bring to the table, and I'm -- yeah, I'm excited.  I'm excited to see what happens at the end.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT