NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: MAPLE LEAFS v HURRICANES
May 24, 2002
Rick Ley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  What's the latest on Pat, when will he be with the team, traveling with the team? 

COACH LEY:   I do not know.  I talked to him this morning.  He's still in the hospital undergoing further tests.  It's day-to-day. 

Q.  Do you know what will factor in on the decision?  Is it a travel thing? 

COACH LEY:   I think there is a travel concern, but I think anybody that knows him well enough, certainly he'll be pulling out all the stops to be there. 

Q.  How shocked were you yesterday when he did show up?  Were you pretty much stunned like everybody else? 

COACH LEY:   Yeah, very much so.  Because I had talked to him earlier and he said that he would not be there and that he would not be making the trip to Raleigh Durham, and so obviously I was pleasantly surprised and happy.  He looked better than he had in quite a while.  He was a good voice behind the bench, and we were happy because obviously for health reasons.  He looked real good.

Q.  What does that say about Pat, just the character of the guy?

COACH LEY:   Well, it says a lot.  It's his team, and he doesn't want to let anybody down.  He wants to be there and be a part of it and show the leadership and the quality of the person that he really is.  It's not a personal, personal thing with him.  It's just that that's the way he is.  He wants to be there and help guide this team through a rocky road.

Q.  Other than health questions, did you discuss tomorrow's game, lineup changes, anything like that at all?

COACH LEY:   No, not at all.  I think as we were talking about last night's game, I'm sure the heart machine was fluttering (laughter).

Q.  Have you thought about tomorrow's game, and is it going to be your decision or are you going to wait and talk to him again tomorrow? 

COACH LEY:   All I know is we're going to prepare like I will be behind the bench tomorrow night, and hopefully he's there, too.  It's just one of those things.  I don't know when we'll find out what will happen.  You just have to move forward and take it as last night's case, take it hour by hour. 

Q.  So you don't think he'll be on the 2:30 flight?

COACH LEY:   He definitely won't be going with us today.

Q.  Do you think you played well enough to win last night?

COACH LEY:  I thought we played real well last night, I really did.  So much better than we did the previous game.  I thought we had a lot more enthusiasm.  We worked at the process a lot better of moving the puck through the trap, and we created our chances.  We outchanced them 17 to 8, and four of their chances were on the power play.  So five-on-five we outchanced them by a great deal.  I don't think that the result  -- it wasn't a fair result from our standpoint, but that's the game of hockey. 

Q.  Was it Irbe or just the bounces?

COACH LEY:   Well, I don't think so much it was the bounces.  The bounces seemed to be bouncing away from us and rebounds or whatever.  But we still didn't create enough congestion around the net, and if we are going to be successful tomorrow, which we're going to be, they have not driven any stake in us yet.  The one thing we have to do is we have to get to the net and we have to go in there.  It's one of those things where we have to be more determined than them.

Q.  Why are you not getting any second shots? 

COACH LEY:   Well, there's two parts to it.   One is that their system of play affords them the luxury of good defensive position.  Their defensemen are doing a good job of blocking off and the other retrieving.  Their forwards are doing a good job of holding up.  And it's a lot of stuff during the season that would be called probably obstruction hooking or holding or whatever, but during the playoffs, you get away with a lot more and they are taking advantage of it. 

Q.  On that note, the one thing they have managed to do is always seem to have someone in front of Roberts .  Do you see a strategy change in the series that you didn't see in some of the other series?

COACH LEY:   That's quite possible.  Obviously, I think if you looked at the two previous series, how effective Gary Roberts was for us, they probably had a plan in place.  They didn't want to let him be the sole difference in the series, so they may have assigned someone to him.  It's hard to assign a forward to another forward because what you're doing is you're leaving holes elsewhere.  So I think that they are doing a very good cumulative job on him, and of all our guys.  I don't think it is just Gary.  They have done a good job and they don't want to let us get in and establish a forecheck and rotations, where they have been able to do it to us.

Q.  It seems that it's almost like man-to-man coverage for all of their players, especially in their own zone, it just seems like their man-to-man coverage on your guys has been exemplary. 

COACH LEY:   Well, they have been very good in a lot of ways.  Their defensive position has been outstanding, so we have to create  -- if we want to break that down, which we did a little bit better last night, but we still have a ways to go.  We have to maybe take some different routes.  I thinks biggest thing is maybe be more determined.

Q.  Are you going to break up the McCauley line?

COACH LEY:   We haven't really thought much about that yet.  We just want to get the guys here today and get them up and moving and thinking about tomorrow's game.  We haven't really had much time to think about it. 

Q.  What was the demeanor today? 

COACH LEY:   They were in watching the movie  Blazing Saddles.  So I think maybe they are looking for a little levity in the situation.  Like I said, no one has driven the stake in this team's heart.  We've battled through a lot of adversity, so there's no reason why we can't do it again.  But we have to look at it one game at a time.  There's nothing we can do about second games.  It's tomorrow's game that we have to be concerned with. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT