NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: MAPLE LEAFS v HURRICANES
May 23, 2002
Rick Ley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  How was Pat after the game? 
 
COACH LEY:   He was fine.  Obviously, disappointed, but he was fine.  He was in pretty good voice tonight.  (Laughs).  But he seemed to weather the storm very well.  
 
Q.  Didn't look like they were giving you much room out there again tonight?
 
COACH LEY:   I thought we moved the puck a lot better tonight than we did the other night.  I thought, actually, we moved it very well for a team that is playing extremely well and disciplined without the puck.  I thought we did a good job of moving it.  I thought we had a lot more offense.  We outchanced them by a great deal tonight and I thought we moved the puck very well. 
 
Q.  But on power plays, can you talk about that?
 
COACH LEY:   Our power play was a perimeter power play.  We certainly had our opportunities.  But we stayed in the perimeter and didn't get people moving with the puck and passing the puck and moving their feet and getting to the net, getting the puck there.  There's no secret to the game.  If you don't get the puck to the net, you're not going to score. 
 
Q.  Can you say when you found out that Pat was going to coach and when he got into the dressing room what the reaction was from the players? 
 
COACH LEY:   Well, I found out for sure about half an hour before we went to the bench.  
 
Q.  Can I assume you were surprised? 
 
COACH LEY:   I was pleasantly surprised that he was back.  I thought he looked much better than he has in quite a few days.  
 
Q.  What do you need to do to turn this thing around? 
 
COACH LEY:   One win at a time.  That's all you can do.  They have won three games in a row; we have to do it now.  We've done it many times this year.  But, you can't be worried about the second game.  It's the next game that we have to, obviously throw everything at them, no holds barred, and we have to make sure that we bring our A-game, and we bring a personality with us that's in control. 
 
Q.  Is Pat going to be able to fly to this game? 
 
COACH LEY:   I have no idea.  
 
Q.  When he did show up, was any part of you worried about him, since he's your friend?  Were you worried about his decision at all? 
 
COACH LEY:   As I say, I was surprised.  But he looked really well.  He looked much better than what he has.  It's amazing what a couple of days of sleep will do for you.  He had gone so long without sleep.  He looked very well and he was very much in control and seemed pretty much like the regular Pat Quinn.  
 
Q.  You said after the last game that you thought your players might have been a bit distracted by his absence in that game.  How do you think they reacted to his presence in the dressing room and behind the bench? 
 
COACH LEY:   They were fine.  That had nothing to do with the outcome of the game, absolutely nothing.  I thought that we played much better tonight than we did the other night.  I thought we executed.  We worked on some things yesterday, and the guys, they had it pretty much down pat, and it worked.  Our puck moving was a lot better tonight.  I just think that when we had our opportunities, we squandered them, and they certainly made the best of theirs. 
 
Q.  If you had to look forward two nights, what do you think you're going to see from your team?
 
COACH LEY:   All I can say is I hope what you're going to see is a lot of determined people that are going to bring everything they have to the hockey game, and at the same time, you have to be in control.  But they are going to bring everything, as a team  -- you win as a team, you lose as a team, but we have to come with an attitude that we can do it.  But it's one game at a time.  There's nothing we can do about the second or third game.  It's the next one we have to take care of, and then we'll worry about the one after that. 
 
Q.  Was Pat involved in the preparations for the game at all?  Were you in touch with him by phone or anything during the day?
 
COACH LEY:   No.  
 
Q.  So the first time you had spoken to him was when he walked in half an hour before? 
 
COACH LEY:   No, he had walked in earlier, but he had some people with him that brought him in.  He was more or less, I think, resting in his office and preparing himself.  We didn't really talk until probably, it was right around warm-up time. 
 
Q.  So as far as lineup decisions, were those yours? 
 
COACH LEY:   That was already prepared, yeah.  
 
Q.  Is Irbe stoning you or are you just not getting enough traffic in front of him? 
 
COACH LEY:   They are doing a very good job of blocking passes to the net and they have some good size.  But what happens is their forwards are in such good position, they are getting timely hold-ups and anybody that does get through, their defenseman are doing a good job of blocking them off and their other defenseman is doing the puck retrieval.  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT