NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: MAPLE LEAFS v HURRICANES
May 21, 2002
Rick Ley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  What was your read on the winning goal? 

COACH LEY:   Well, it looked like we got caught in another bad change and were scrambling around.  The puck took a number of different bounces, and unfortunately, it wasn't bouncing our way. 

Q.  Twice in as many games.  How concerned are you about the line change problem at key moments? 

COACH LEY:   Well, obviously you worry about that.  That's not a physical thing; that's a mental thing.  The puck is going north and you're going south, it always makes for an up-man situation.  You're just asking for trouble.

Q.  Did you guys play well enough in that five-on-five tonight?  It seemed, except for the power play, they had most of the play, five-on-five. 

COACH LEY:   I guess if you look at the time tonight in our zone, we probably didn't fair as well as they did.  I think that we played too much of the game in our end.  Our first man on our D-zone coverage was not doing a good job, and so the second and third people could read off it.  I think our effort is there and we are certainly trying, but sometimes the thought process was not what we wanted.

Q.  Mogilny got knocked flat in the first minute, did that kind of mess up the lines for the next little while? 

COACH LEY:   Yeah, we had to change them around, and then he came back at the tail end of the first.  He played part of the second, and he was effective, but was not able to sustain it. 

Q.  Will he play in the next game? 

COACH LEY:   I have no idea.  I haven't really had a chance to talk to our trainers.

Q.  Did you speak with Pat this afternoon at all?

COACH LEY:   I spoke to him earlier, yes.  Around one  o'clock. 

Q.  How difficult was your job made by his absence, and what kind of distraction was it on the team in general, do you think? 

COACH LEY:   Well, I hope that it would be a rallying point and not a distraction.  It's hard to say.  I talked and addressed the players, once they all arrived, and apprised them of the situation as much as I knew.  Basically, over the last two and a half months, we've climbed over a lot of adversity.  I hoped we could do it again tonight.  I don't know.  Possibly it was a distraction.  I think you probably have to talk to the players about that.

Q.  Doctor, are you here to give us an update?  Is there any new information? 

DR. OGLIVIE-HARRIS:  No change. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT