U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2018
Zach Bauchou
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You've got to be full of confidence; the last two years coming in here as the Canadian Amateur champion; how do you feel coming in?
ZACH BAUCHOU: You know, I think my game is in a pretty good spot.  I haven't played that much golf this summer, and to play well last week was a really nice boost coming in here.  The course was a little shorter, so you hit a lot of wedges to short irons and had a lot of 15- to 20-foot birdie looks.  I'm hitting my short stuff pretty good and making some putts, so it was a good confidence boost coming in here, and obviously played pretty solid today.  I didn't play great, but it was all right.
Q. The whole year has to be good for you mentally, winning the national title, all those things that are happening to you.  How do you feel?
ZACH BAUCHOU: For sure.  You know, sometimes it's hard to sit back and enjoy it because you're playing again next week, and then you're playing again the week after.  But to look back and think a national championship and how we won and how we played just all spring is truly incredible.  It really is.  It was really special, and it's something we'll all look back on for the rest of our lives and be like, wow, that was really cool what we did there, not just winning the national championship but the whole spring we played phenomenal.  Going into this year, it's exciting for us.
Q. You finished strong today, birdies on 8 and 9.  Tell me how you did it.
ZACH BAUCHOU: Yeah, those two holes are going to have short irons in, and so 8, I hit a good drive.  I tried to play pretty aggressive off the tee.  A lot of guys are hitting 3-wood there.  I just hit driver and had 140 up the hill, so it was like adjusted to 150, and just hit a 9 in there to like three feet, so it was kind of like a gimme birdie, so it was nice.  And then 9 here was like 430 up the hill, and I had like 150, adjusted to like 160 and hit an 8 just past the hole maybe 15 feet down the hill and made that putt.  So it was a good way to finish for me.
Q. How does this set you up now because obviously no one is knocking it out of the park so far.  So anything red is pretty good.
ZACH BAUCHOU: Yeah, I think the pins out here are pretty tough.  It's hard to get the ball close to the hole, and the greens are slippery and they're slopey.  It's hard to get a low score out here.  1-, 2-under, 3-under, those are all really good rounds.  It wouldn't shock me if someone shot 67 or better, but if you're going to do it, you've got to play really well.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT