ROLAND GARROS
October 5, 2020
Daniel Altmaier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  P. CARRENO BUSTA/D. Altmaier
 6-2, 7-5, 6-2
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. What have you learnt from your experiences here?  Do you now believe you belong at the elite level?
 DANIEL ALTMAIER:   Yes, unfortunately the tournament is finished for me.  I can little bit reflect on what really happened.  Today has been already the 18, 19 day for me here.  I was really trying to have a really good preparation for this match.
 I'm being very honest.  I think on court it's been the toughest first 30 minutes I've ever had against an opponent.  Doesn't matter on which tour I played.  It was really intense.  It was like for me to resist a little bit the battle.  He was a little bit on top of me.  I think he played amazing tennis.
 I think for me it was a very, very positive week.  I've been working really hard for this.  I think I truly believe that I belong here.  It's for me just the beginning of everything.
 Q. You told us you've been part of Sky Scholarship Academy, you received advice from Anthony Joshua.  You came into Roland Garros as an unknown to many.  You knocked out six opponents over the last few weeks.  How does it feel to have gone toe-to-toe with some of the best in the world over the last few weeks?
 DANIEL ALTMAIER:   It's been amazing.  I think also just the atmosphere, being a Grand Slam, all those top guys around who are really dominating the tour.  It's been a true pleasure.  I was very happy also now reflecting on what happened in this tournament.  I truly can say I can be a little bit proud of myself, now reflect a little bit, get very ready for the upcoming weeks.
 I want to come back stronger.  I also saw today a chance to win the match.  Unfortunately, yeah, I couldn't take it.  I'm a little bit disappointed about that to be honest.
 Q. Your experience meeting Anthony Joshua, what did he tell you?  What did you talk about?
 DANIEL ALTMAIER:   It was a quick catch-up after his fight against Povetkin in the Wembley Stadium.  Me and Adam Smith, my mentor in the Sky Scholarship Program, went inside the locker to congratulate him.  It was really interesting because he mentioned to me fight each second.  For us it's a privilege, we can do a hobby or what we enjoy the most into our life.  I think working hard, enjoying the process, was one of the advices he gave me.  The time was really short.
 I look forward for our next meeting definitely to learn more because he's the type of guy who is actually sharing a lot of his success already to the public.  I think that's why he's such a hero worldwide.
 Q. We know you enjoy boxing and tennis.  Anything Anthony Joshua said to you to encourage about thinking about a boxing career or will you stay with the tennis?
 DANIEL ALTMAIER:   No, definitely I'm going to stick to tennis.  Boxing is for me something I'm truly going to follow.  I enjoy a lot watching boxing.  Also last night there was (indiscernible) fighting.  I was speaking with Adam about that.  Anthony Joshua was streaming this one.  I was watching on Instagram live.
 It's funny.  It's just the story because my dad was an amateur fighter.  I think that's why I got it a little bit in my blood as well.
 Q. Your future plans, what do you hope to do, achieve?
 DANIEL ALTMAIER:   Next for me is going to be Cologne, the ATP tournament.  I'm very delighted to have the wild card there for the first event.
 The nearest plan is switch into indoors because this event is going to be on hard court indoor.  It means a little bit adapting the game.  I'm getting ready for this one.
 I think still it's pretty difficult to schedule some things, tournaments, during the upcoming time during corona.  I think South America is going to come up in November.  I want to push hard till the end of the year, keep progressing.
 I think next challenge is going to be hopefully main draw in Australia.  This is a goal I truly believe I can achieve this year.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT