U.S. TEAM OLYMPIC TRIALS: SWIMMING
June 29, 2012
Nathan Adrian
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We have Nathan Adrian here. 

Q.   Can you talk about one of your teammates who made it tonight, Jason Lezak?   What do you think of his accomplishment at his age and going back with you to another Olympics? 
NATHAN ADRIAN:   It's exciting.   Anytime you have a veteran like that, he brings so much to the table.   I have vivid memories of how he went about his performances in 2008.   I'm excited to see what he does this time around. 

Q.   Nathan, from the preparedness factor, can you compare '08 in preparing for Beijing and now your preparation for London? 
NATHAN ADRIAN:   Yeah, kinda!   This was a lot different.   '08 I was kinda some kid who had a chance of making the team.   This time I'm still a kid that was expected to make the team and no matter what level you are, those expectations weigh on your shoulders, and I felt it a little bit. 
Now I made the team and I can relax and I'm excited to kinda move forward and start focusing a little more on performance versus getting myself on the roster. 

Q.   What do you think overall of the Trials and the team that's emerging, whether people are swimming fast enough at this point? 
NATHAN ADRIAN:   I think it's a great Trials.   If you're feeling a little tired or beat down before going out on the pool deck for that final, you hear the crowd noise and you awaken pretty quickly. 
In terms of speed, it's kind of irrelevant at this point.   I don't think any of these times necessarily reflect what we're going to go in London.   It was all about qualifying, and I think especially the top of the pack, guys like Ryan and Michael, they knew they were going to qualify, so they have something left in the tank. 

Q.   Nathan, you mentioned times and you can go quicker and whatever, but you know what it takes to do a 48.1; 47.1 is something else. 
NATHAN ADRIAN:   Yes. 

Q.   Do you imagine getting down that way? 
NATHAN ADRIAN:   You know, at this point, I'm chipping away at my best time.   Given different circumstances I think I could have gotten under 48 tonight, but, again, I got on that team.   47.1 probably wasn't in the cards for this evening, but sometime in the future hopefully I will be around that range. 

Q.   The top four times, how do you think that sets you guys up for the relay in London?   Obviously the Australians set the benchmark and there is a bit to make up there. 
NATHAN ADRIAN:   We're fine.   Nothing we can change now about our preparation.   I'm not going to go to our training camp and lift a bunch of weights and drop a full second.   I'm going to rest a little more, try to get a little more speed and see how that race turns out.   There is a reason why we swim it. 

Q.   A lot was made the first couple of nights about all the Florida swimmers qualifying, and I'm wondering, coming from the Cal program and their dominance at the collegiate level if you could speak to Dave and his training and the similarities between Florida and Cal? 
NATHAN ADRIAN:   There is probably a big difference in how we train, probably how we approach our races.   My first 50 is probably faster and Ryan's 50 is probably faster.   At the collegiate level Dave has proved himself.   I think the Cal program fits me very well.   It developed my strengths, my power, and I think that's where I need to move forward at this point, and I couldn't be happier where I am. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, Nathan.   







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT