UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 30, 2017
Drue Tranquill
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Sort of in general terms, describe Mike Elko as a teacher.
DRUE TRANQUILL: I would say he's very to the point.  He likes to keep things simple for his players so they can play fast, play free.  I guess, for example, in my play, I'll be out there trying to make checks that are the safeties' calls, and he'll stop practice and say, like just be quiet, just worry about your job, and so he likes to keep things simple and to the point.
Q. How were his meetings in terms of energy, the way he tries to get his point across?
DRUE TRANQUILL: I mean, I think there's a lot of passion and energy.  I think starting out, we have a big defensive meeting to kind of review the day before, and there's obviously passion and teaching points there, but then he kind of allows his coaches to kind of take their players positionally and allow them to detail their work.  I spend a lot of time with the linebacker coaches, more so than I do him, but he definitely does bring a lot of passion and energy.
Q. Last year's defense, I think early on at least, you guys didn't rotate a whole lot.  How is that different now in terms of the number of guys you expect to sort of be part of the rotation on Saturday?
DRUE TRANQUILL: Yeah, I think you're always looking for depth, obviously, to keep guys fresh, and I think last year in order for guys to play, they have to understand the defense.  They have to understand the schematics behind what you're doing, and when you have a complicated defense, not a lot of guys can grasp it, so you've got to leave guys out there who know what they're doing and can make the checks and calls, but when you simplify things, it allows a lot more guys to get out on the field and keep your guys fresh.
Q. I think sometimes when people describe a defense as simple, that can be a negative.  I don't know if you see it that way.  Is that a positive?
DRUE TRANQUILL: Yeah, I wouldn't see it as a negative at all.  I think it allows your players to play fast, and the defensive scheme in and of itself isn't necessarily simple, but in terms of like the play calls you're going in with, there isn't a check to every type of motion.  There's a general check to how we're going to play X or how we're going to play Y, instead of complicating things, having to see Orbit versus Jet and having to recognize the small details within a game.  I think he greatly simplifies the responsibility for each individual player and each individual player has his own checks, but I don't necessarily have to worry about checking for the linebackers and checking for the safeties, like the safeties check for the safeties, the linebackers check for the safeties, the defensive line for the D-line, and so it simplify's each player's game, not necessarily the schematic of the whole defense.
Q. How much are you guys looking to redeem yourselves after what happened last year?
DRUE TRANQUILL: I don't think there's necessarily a redemption mindset in us.  I think it's been more of a kind of idea of total preparation and controlling what we can control.  We can't control what happened last year.  It is what it is, and we can't necessarily even control what's going to happen tomorrow or the next day.  We can really only control what's going to happen now, our attitude now, our focus now.  And so I wouldn't say it's as much a sense of redemption as it is a ready to show what we've done this off-season, an opportunity to showcase our total preparation.
Q. How special are these game days to you guys as players?
DRUE TRANQUILL: Incredibly special, and I think in the past three years, it's something I haven't realized how special it is.  You know, I think I've gone to things like the Irish walk and been so just locked in and engaged on all the ins and outs that I haven't necessarily taken it in.  Coach Kelly has kind of provided a fresh perspective on -- when you're on that Irish walk, breathe it in.  This is like Notre Dame.  This is everyone who's played before you, that will play after you.  This is the tradition of Notre Dame.  You don't have to be ready to play the game walking on the Irish walk.  We talk about getting into our optimal zone, and I think I'm really looking forward to this game day because I'm going to approach it a little bit differently in terms of my mindset and how I get locked in and ready for the game, and I'm really going to breathe it in and take it in, but it's a special thing, yeah.
Q. From a defensive player's perspective, what have you seen from Brandon?  What can make him a special quarterback for you guys this year?
DRUE TRANQUILL: Yeah, I mean, obviously we all know Brandon's athletic ability and his ability to extend plays, get outside the pocket.  He's a proficient passer, got a strong arm, but I think -- when I think about Brandon, I think about the intangible qualities I've seen in him this off-season, his ability to get a group of guys rallied around him, even a guy who hasn't necessarily taken a lot of snaps, really any in that regard, but guys believe in him, and you look for that in a leader.
Q. With all the changes within the stadium, I know you guys will be focused on the game, but how much are you looking forward to seeing what that atmosphere and environment is going to be like with the fans coming in there for the first time?
DRUE TRANQUILL: Yeah, I'm honored.  I'm honored to be the first team to be able to play in this new stadium.  You know, the pride and tradition of Notre Dame just continues to grow.  We always say the house that Rockne built with new modern amenities, whatever they say.  But I'm really looking forward to taking a lot of pride in being the first team to step out on that field and not taking that lightly.  I mean, it's incredible what Notre Dame can do, not only for us but for its fans and its communities, and so looking forward to coming in to the new home and playing.
Q. Do you think that added atmosphere can help you guys in some form on the field?
DRUE TRANQUILL: I guess we'll see on Saturday.  I don't really know too much about how that atmosphere is going to change, but I know to win a football game, you've still got to go out there and execute.  I guess we'll feel the atmosphere for the first time on Saturday.  Looking forward to it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT