BOSTON COLLEGE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 22, 2016
Mike Walker
William Harris
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Syracuse - 28, Boston College - 20
Q. Mike, can you talk about what happened on the interception that was down near the end zone?
MIKE WALKER: It was just -- they actually left me loose, didn't guard me, so I kind of scrambled a little bit and just kind of moved too fast, didn't secure the catch before I caught it, and it kind of got out of my hands.
Q. Could you tell if at all anything that might have been going on with Patrick?  Obviously he came out suddenly, but he had to do a lot with his legs and seemed like this was one of his tougher games.  What was your read on him today?
MIKE WALKER: Can I actually not comment on that?  Can I not comment on that?
Q. Can you take us through the pick you made, and what happened down there on the approaching sideline after the hit by Dungey?
WILLIAM HARRIS: You know, all week we just worked on controlling the middle of the field, having a presence in the middle of the field, you know, so when I got the opportunity, I took advantage of it.  Just tried to make the play as best as I could.  Towards the end of the play, it happened fast, I can't comment on all the exact details, but some guys got tossed around a little bit, but all in all, I don't really know all the details about what happened.  I was kind of on the bottom, on the bottom of it.
Q. Will, did a coach touch you?
WILLIAM HARRIS: I don't believe so.  I don't believe so.  You know, the refs did a good job of just coming in and clearing it all up.  It happened to fast, I didn't really know -- I was just trying to get up and get back to my own sideline.  But obviously with equipment and other players in the way, things got congested on the sideline.  I did -- I was on the ground for a minute, so I was trying to get up.  The ref was in my face helping me up, so I just tried to get back to my sideline.
Q. I saw you fell and there was a guy with an orange cap --
WILLIAM HARRIS: No, no, I can't comment on that because I don't know.  I don't know for sure.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT