MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAú
April 2, 2021
Roberto Bautista Agut
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  J. SINNER/R. Bautista Agut
 5-7, 6-4, 6-4
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. A tough one today but a nice run during the tournament.  From these past couple experiences playing Jannik, is there some way you could explain what's special about him, what makes him such a special talent?
 ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT:   Well, of course he's good, no?  Both matches have the feeling I could won on both times but finally I didn't, no?   I think he has something special in tough moments.
 Today I had chances on the second set, chances on the third set, but, well, he's a great player, great competitor, and I will try to beat him the next time.
 Q. You have played virtually everyone great in your career.  You mentioned that Jannik is a very strong player.  When you see someone who is as young as he is who is having success...
 ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT:   I don't understand you, sorry.
 Q. When you see someone as young as Jannik being as successful as he is, what do you think his future will look like?
 ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT:   Well, of course he has a great future coming up.  He has everything, no?  He has a big serve, he's tall, he's big, he moves well, he has very good groundstrokes.  Well, mentally he's also great and improving.  He has a great future coming up.
 Q. Talk a little bit if you would about the seventh game of the second set, 3-All, and you had three breakpoints there.  On one of them you let the ball go.  I'm sure you were kicking yourself.  Can you just talk about that sequence.
 ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT:   Well, I thought that ball was going out and finally touch the line one millimeter, no?  Tennis sometimes it's crazy, no?  Sometimes it's like this, and one ball can make a big difference on the match.
 Then he played -- I think I had another breakpoint on that game.  I had four breakpoints on this game, and, well, today was not my day.  I have to congratulate him, because he came back well on the second set and in the third set.
 Q. Is there anything that you would have liked to have done differently today against Jannik, looking back on how the match turned out?
 ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT:   Well, I think I could play better tennis today, no?  I fought a lot, I run well, and I try to compete as good as I could, but I didn't play my best game today, no?  I don't know why.
 It was because of the wind, because of the situation?  Was not my best match, but I tried to compete with the things I had on the court today.  I think I could have a little bit something more, no?
 I had a lot of chances on the second set and also on the third set, and today finally I lost 6-4 in the third and I cannot say nothing else.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT