ATP CUP
January 12, 2020
Roberto Bautista Agut
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








R. AGUT/D. Lajovic
7-5, 6-1
Team Spain - 1
Team Serbia - 0
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Obviously a strong performance from you, especially after the first set. How happy were you with how you played this evening?
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: I played a great match, no? I think Dusan is playing very well. He played really good this ATP Cup, and I had to play good tennis, no?
I was solid. I was changing directions. I was playing aggressive, returning well. I think it was a very complete match.
Q. You played many matches here now at the ATP Cup and you won them all. How thrilled are you to be able to get all that match play and all those wins under your belt?
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: Well, it's good, no, to start the season playing matches. It's good for me to get confidence at the beginning of the year, to feel well on the court. That means I did a great job during home during this preseason.
Well, as I said, I'm very happy about how I played.
Q. I'm sure you're going to, as soon as you're done here, you're probably going to go out and watch this match and support Rafa. How more nervous are you watching one of your teammates play than actually getting to be on the court yourself?
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: Sometimes I feel more nervous outside than inside, no? Now I'm going to go straight to the court to support Rafa.
It's very important match for the team and also for him to be confident. I think Novak is playing good, so he will have to play a great match if he wants to beat him.
Q. Of course it's nowhere near over yet, there is a lot still to play, but if you guys do win the ATP Cup tonight, how much do you think that would mean for Spain?
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: Well, it means doesn't matter if we win or we lose, no? That means that Spain is in great form. We have a very complete team. We have a very good chemistry between each other.
Every one of the team can play every point. That means that we have a really strong team. That's why we show up on Davis Cup and here.
Q. What is it about Lajovic's game that works so well for you? You have now beaten him four times in four matches.
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: Well, Lajovic is playing hard. I think he made the big improvement last year. He's doing a great job. He won many good matches in this ATP Cup.
Well, I'm very happy, no? I think I could beat him in straight sets. I was feeling well on the court, and that's the most important thing.
Q. And what was the discussion between the two of you at the net at I think it was 1-Love in the second set.
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: No, it was not a discussion. It was just a talk about what happened in that point. Well, we played 20 balls. We did play the point and everything was fair. Everything was fine. No, no, no problem.
Q. I don't know how much you're able to do this during the match, but when you have an atmosphere like this when all the fans are excited, are you able to take that in, or do you take that in more when you're in the team zone watching Rafa?
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: Well, when you're playing in the team match, you feel the support of the fans. You feel the support of your team, of your teammates. You don't really realize what's happening outside you and your fans.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT