ATP CUP
January 11, 2020
Roberto Bautista Agut
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
R. AGUT/N. Kyrgios   
6-1, 6-4   
Team Spain - 1   
Team Australia - 0   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How were you able to be so efficient tonight and make it look so easy against Nick who is often a tricky opponent?  
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: Well, it's never easy to go on court and play good tennis, no? I think it was a very great performance on the court today. Nick is a very good player, very talented player. To beat him in straight sets, you have to play very good tennis.   
 Q.  You played him once before four or five years ago. Did that play in your mind at all, or did you just start fresh and look at tactics from more recent matches?  
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: Well, I respect him a lot. I know how good he can play.   
It's very long time that I played him in Tokyo four, five years ago. Everybody is a better player now, five years later.   
Well, I was very focused and very concentrated during the first point until the last one. I make him play hard, stay very solid, and make him work a lot during all match.   
 Q.  It took a while for the ball to get rolling for Nick, especially in the first set. Did that sort of give you an early confidence going in?  
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: I think the first game was very good game with a lot of rallies, with a lot of rhythm. He wanted to start with a lot of pressure, and I handle very good the first game.   
And then I was returning very good, and I could have an early break at the beginning of the match. Well, it was a great first set for my side.   
 Q.  What advice did Rafa give you going into the match against Nick?  
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: Well, I'm not gonna say, no, what Rafa told me, no? We know each other well. We know which kind of words we can use to try to help him and him to help me.   
And of course he has a lot of experience. He has played a lot of matches against Nick. He told me things that I could use in the match.   
 Q.  The crowd was obviously very loud tonight but also very much supporting Nick and they were very much trying to get behind him. How did you cope with that, the strong Australian crowd?  
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: Well, we are used to play these kind of matches. I'm gonna say it's very nice to play with a full crowd, with a lot of spectators. It feels great to play tennis like this in a big match against Nick.   
Well, it was fun tonight, and I could enjoy a really good match.   
 Q.  You guys had a very late night last night, obviously. Can you walk us through what time you ended up getting to rest and then when you maybe warmed up, practiced today?  
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: We went to bed 2:30 or 3:00 a.m. It was very late. It's good that we come from Perth, which is three hours less, and it was tough but not that much, no?   
We woke up very late today, 11:30. We had everything late. Late practice, late match.   
Well, it's okay because we start at 7:00 or 6:00. I don't know. 7:00.   
 Q.  Going off of that, of course when you have an exciting match like that, there are a lot of emotions, a lot of adrenaline. How were you able to sort of refocus and shift your focus to this match tonight?  
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: Well, it's the same, no, every night? You have to be very focused. I respect every match I play, and I try to give my best, to give my 100% every time I step on the court.   
Today was like this, no? It was not easy to play against Nick with his crowd in this court.   
Well, I'm happy because I handled my emotions well and I could play a very good match.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT