ATP CUP
January 10, 2020
Roberto Bautista Agut
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
R. AGUT/K. Coppejans   
6-1, 6-4   
Team Spain - 1   
Team Belgium - 0   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Now that you're here in Sydney, how much have you been enjoying this new event?  
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: I like to play with my teammates. It's great to play with your team country. Every match you play with your country, the crowd is special. The crowd is in the match, and it's very nice to play these kind of matches.   
 Q.  Is there anything in particular -- there are different innovations at the event. You have the team zone where you sit. There is a nice atmosphere at the side of the court with your teammates. You have things like the strategy room. What of those have you enjoyed the most?  
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: Well, I didn't use the strategy room so much. The best thing, it's that we are very close, all the teammates. We are friends since long time, and we enjoy being together inside the court, outside the court, practicing together.   
Well, it's nice also to support the team when I'm not on the court. Well, just enjoying and trying to do my job as best as possible.   
 Q.  Do you think that helps you to start the year in such an environment where the emotions and the intensity is high right away?  
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: It's always good to start the season playing a lot of matches, as many matches as you can. Today was my fourth match, and, well, just getting the rhythm of the competition and enjoying every match I play on this ATP Cup.   
 Q.  How well do you think you're playing at the moment?  
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: Well, I feel well on the court, no? I still didn't play against very good opponent, with all my respect against all the players I played.   
Well, just looking forward to see Rafa and to support him, to win the tie today, and very focused on the rest of the tournament.   
 Q.  Let's say he does that and he wins and Spain is through to the semifinals. Australia next.  
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: I would like to wait. I don't like to talk in advance. I want to respect Belgium. We are still playing the tie, and I wouldn't like to talk in advance, if it's possible.   
 Q.  Obviously last year was a great year for you. Now you're starting with several wins. How good of form do you feel you're in?  
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: Well, as I said, it's the beginning of the season. I did a great job at home. I practiced a lot, and I did a lot of great things.   
Now just getting the rhythm of the competition. Just getting focused on a new year, new beginning of the year. I hope I can play another great year of tennis and enjoy my job.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT