ATP CUP
January 4, 2020
Roberto Bautista Agut
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
R. AGUT/A. Metreveli   
6-0, 6-0   
Team Spain - 1   
Team Georgia - 0   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Feeling good after a pretty straightforward win tonight?  
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: Yes, it was a great match. It was one of the matches you feel well on the court, and, well, it was a great start of the season and also a great start of the tournament.   
 Q.  How much did you know about Aleksandre? Did you know much about him?  
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: I didn't have information about him, and I could ask some players who knew him before. I had some ideas, but I never saw him play. And, well, I was focusing on my game and I played a great match.   
 Q.  How about that second game? I think it went 15 minutes. Can you talk a little bit about that.  
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: I knew it was important to start with a break, and, well, I was really focused at the beginning of the match. I wanted to get the advantage, and I knew it was good to make the break at the second game. I gave everything, and I was very focused there.   
 Q.  What's it like when you beat someone 6-Love, 6-Love? Is there a part of you that feels for the other person?  
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: Well, it's been a long time I don't win a match like this. It's never easy for the opponent to win one match like this. As we are in a round robin, every game counts and I wanted to play full until the end.   
 Q.  You had a breakout 2019 with a quarterfinal appearance at the Aussie Open and a semifinal appearance later on. Is your goal this year to try and crack one in a major and get into a final?  
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: Well, it's still a long way, no? We are now in the ATP Cup. It's the beginning of the season.   
That's true that I felt well today on the court, but it's still a long way, long preparation, and I want to play a good competition here and then get ready for the Australian Open.   
 Q.  Spending so much time alongside Rafa, do you learn much from him and take much from him?  
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: It's always positive to spend time with him onside the court, offside the court. He just brings me and the rest of the team positive energy, good things, good things to learn. Well, it's always positive thing to have him next to you.   
 Q.  I know it wasn't a long off-season, but what did you work on at the time? Obviously I know you would have gone on honeymoon, et cetera, but were you able to implement anything you had worked on during the off-season today?  
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: I wasn't able to do the honeymoon this year (smiling). I wanted to stay calm at home. I spend four weeks at home, three weeks of practice and, well, I did a great job.   
I like to be at home practicing, and I love my job. I like to spend time on the court and also doing the good preparation for the season.   
I like to do it. That's why I come at the beginning of the season with a very good preparation.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT