HUAJIN SECURITIES ZHUHAI CHAMPIONSHIPS
September 28, 2019
Roberto Bautista Agut
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. DE MINAUR/R. Bautista Agut   
6-2, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Sorry for your loss today. Can you talk about the match and what's the key point.  
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: Well, I think he played really good tennis. I didn't play bad today, I played my game, I tried to play aggressive and, well, the conditions were not my best conditions for my tennis and, well, I have to congratulate him because he was really good on the court today.   
 Q.  Some players said the court is a little bit slow, how do you think about that, the court speed.  
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: I think the court speed is the slowest court I played ever in my life, I never played in a court with that slow speed. But the conditions this week were like this and everybody has to get used to these conditions as fast as possible. I played semi-final, which is not bad, but today I'm a little bit disappointed because I think I deserved a little bit more and, well, I have to give him credit because he played at a very high level.   
 Q.  I think you guys delivered a lot of fantastic shots, maybe because of the court is a little bit slow, so there is a lot of long rallies and the crowd gave you guys a lot of cheers. How do you feel about the atmosphere here?  
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: Well, I'm not sure it's good, the conditions are good to play tennis, but this ball, with this humidity and these conditions, it's not great for the tennis. The players, we die on court because we have to play 30 or 40 balls every point. I think it's good for the spectators, but it's not good for us.   
 Q.  We know you and Alex are very familiar with each other, although this is the first time for you two to compete with each other. How does it feel and how is it different between matches and training with Alex?  
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: Well, I'm practicing with him already three, four years in Spain and I'm happy how he's playing and I'm happy how he's doing and, well, it was the first time we played each other and I want to wish him good luck for tomorrow, but I'm going to think on the match today and for the next time I will try to do a better match.   
 Q.  You are world number 10 and you still have a chance to qualify for the ATP finals. How do you think of that and if you qualified what does that mean to you?  
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: Well, it means a lot. I will try my best to be there and to finish the season as good as possible. Now I'm going to recover well and I will have all my mind in Beijing, which is the next tournament, and I hope I can play a good tennis at the end of the China tournaments.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT