HUAJIN SECURITIES ZHUHAI CHAMPIONSHIPS
September 27, 2019
Roberto Bautista Agut
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
R. BAUTISTA AGUT/A. Seppi   
6-2, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You played on the center court for the first time, could you talk about how do you feel about the conditions and the atmosphere.  
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: Well, it was nice to play on this court, it's a very beautiful court, very nice center court and the conditions here are very slow, every ball, every point is played by long rallies, a lot of points from baseline. I like the way I played today and I felt really good on the court.   
 Q.  You made it into the semi final at Wimbledon and then a Top-10 debut last month. What does this mean to you at this age?  
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: Well, it means a lot to me. It means that I've been doing a lot of good things during the past year and it means that I'm improving my tennis, my game is getting better and that's why I'm climbing on the rankings.   
 Q.  You arrived at Zhuhai on Monday. Does that mean you left Geneva earlier and how does that help you to prepare for this tournament?  
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: I wanted to arrive here as soon as possible. I knew that the jet lag in China is not easy coming from Europe. And I asked the people from the Laver Cup if I could leave a little bit earlier and I left on Sunday night and I arrived here Monday afternoon, which helped me a little bit to arrive 24 hours earlier than I expected.   
 Q.  You travel to so many tournaments and cities all over the world and this is the first time you come to Zhuhai. Compared to the cities you traveled to in the past, what's the biggest impression you have on Zhuhai city in general?  
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: Well I arrived here very close, I didn't have much time to visit the city and I only had time to rest and be concentrating for the tournament. And, well, what I see it's a city, a lot of buildings and new buildings, a lot of new bridges and streets and I'm thinking that in three, four years it's going to be a totally different city. So it's going to be interesting to see how it is in a few years.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT