THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 12, 2019
Roberto Bautista Agut
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
N. DJOKOVIC/R. Bautista Agut   
6-2, 4-6, 6-3, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  The third set in particular was very high level, very tense.  How close do you think you came to winning it?  How important was it for the whole match that you didn't?  
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: I think I deserve a little bit more in the third set.  The third set for me was the best set of the match.  We both played very good tennis.   
Well, I was 15-40 with 4-3 to make the break.  Well, it was a good part of the match.   
 Q.  When Djokovic started doing all the cupping the ears to the crowd, do you think you had him rattled?  
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: I didn't look at him, no?  I was really focus on the game, on the match.  Of course, the crowd wants a good match.  They want a good fight on the court.  It's normal that they make some loud to equal the match.   
 Q.  The rally at 4-2, 15-40, the 45 shots.  
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: 4-3.   
 Q.  That was an incredible rally.  
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: Yes, I had 15-40 in that game.  I had the two shots.  I played really, really deep return.  I played good cross-court with my backhand.  I had easy forehand.  I went too much for it.   
Then the next point I wanted to play -- I didn't want to take risk on the point to play long, to play a good rally.  Was maybe one of the best points of the match.   
 Q.  Your friends are now over from Ibiza.  Do you have any plans with them tonight or this weekend?  
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: Well, they came yesterday as a surprise.  Was really nice to have them in the crowd.  They support me so much.  Well, now I think I deserve some vacations.  We will have some time off after that.   
 Q.  Any plans to go to Ibiza perhaps later this summer?  
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: Definitely, yes.   
 Q.  Do you know when?  
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: Maybe tomorrow.   
 Q.  Incredible story, you had to cancel this stag do.  When was the first indication you had they came over to London?  
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: We had everything reserved from Thursday or Wednesday until Sunday.  Well, they all knew before it was a small chance to be here, me playing on the quarterfinals.  Well, it was nice.   
I think they really had a good plan.  They spend Wednesday in Ibiza.  They came to watch a good match, the semifinal of Wimbledon.  Maybe tomorrow we come back.   
 Q.  The way you played in the match, your first slam semifinal, against the world No. 1, had him rattled for the third set, you probably deserved to win, does that give you confidence this will not be the last time we see you this late?  
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: Every experience I had in my tennis career made me better player, made me the next time do the things better.  I think everything makes me better player.  A lot of experience today in the match.  A lot of new situations.  A lot of new emotions.   
Well, happy for the way I played, happy with the result I have here in Wimbledon.   
 Q.  Your partner Ana looks very nervous watching you play.  Does she enjoy it?  How do you help her cope with the pressure of tennis?  
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: Ana?   
 Q.  Your partner, does she find it stressful to watch you play?  
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: No, everybody likes to watch me.  Of course, when is a tough moment, they suffer much, they suffer more.  It's nice, no?  They all enjoy.  There is no reason to be sad or to be afraid.  Today we did a great match.   
Of course, I will fight.  I will try.  I will continue practicing hard to try to get more options like today.   
 Q.  Can you tell us what happened with the spectator who was taken ill?  Did you notice?  Did you ask for play to be suspended?  
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: I ask if we were going to have a break because of that.  The referee told me it was going to take a while.  I didn't know how much time.   
Well, sometimes this happens.  We have to handle it with the best thoughts on our mind.  I just tried to keep focus and keep the mentality in the match.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT