MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 7, 2019
Roberto Bautista Agut
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
D. FERRER/R. Bautista Agut   
6-4, 4-6, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Spanish.   
 Q.  You came here to Madrid to a very special tournament.  You had done really well this season, I don't know what has happened today out there.  How can you read today's match?  
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: Of course, I haven't played my best match today.  It's true that the conditions of Madrid are tricky, they're difficult.  I have not been able to prepare as I wanted and today I fight.  I played with a tennis level that I had today.  I tried to give my best and it didn't fall my way today.   
 Q.  When we had a look at the draw, we heard Feliciano Lopez saying this was not a ideal, that they were not expecting you against Ferrer as soon as you start the tournament, and at the end of the match Ferrer said it is a pity that you two had to play on first round.  What are your feelings out there today?  And what about the emotions when you are playing out there against Ferrer being his last match?  
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: It's true that emotionally it was a tough match today against David because we have shared a lot of moments, both inside the court and outside.  We have a great friendship.  He's a fighter.  And he fights till the very last ball of his career, he will be there, and now I want the best thing for him and I want him to make it to the final.   
 Q.  I don't know if you thought about David when you had seen that he had a physical problem because he laid down on the court and then he just started playing as if nothing had happened.  Did you think that he had some kind of physical problem?  
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: No, I guess that the match was not easy for him either and while it's been a tough match, we've had really long rallies.  And here in Madrid conditions are tougher than in other tournaments and that makes you play with perhaps a little bit more attention because of that risk of committing unforced errors, especially at the beginning of the tournament.   
As soon as the day goes on, you start feeling better and start improving and this year for me, I'm not going to have any more days ahead and I'm leaving this tournament today.   
 Q.  Is this defeat a turning point for you for the rest of the clay court season?  Maybe you will go with more energy towards the next matches?  
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: You can maybe work things out or think during the year, but to be at the highest of your levels is very complicated.  This was not the result that I was expecting here in Madrid.  Normally, it's a good week for me inside the calendar, but we still have a lot to do.  We still have three Grand Slams and I will have to recover and try to play at my best level.   
 Q.  What happened at the end of the match?  
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: David wanted his last match today.  I told him there was no problem, that he was the one who was deciding, and that he could choose and he preferred it to be this way.  Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT