QATAR EXXONMOBIL OPEN
January 4, 2019
Roberto Bautista Agut
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








R. BAUTISTA AGUT/N. Djokovic
3-6, 7-6, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please, in English.
Q. Can you tell us at what point in the match you thought you could turn it around?  You had a slow start, came back from a set down and a breakdown in the second.
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: Novak started playing very good and he was very solid and surprised me a little bit, his level at the beginning of the match.  But I was keeping my concentration, I was trying to turn the score and I had to play unbelievable to make the break on the second set and, well, it was unbelievable second set.
I think until the last point, it was very good tennis on the court and I think on the first set I was better than him.
Q. Did you notice at all that he was maybe tired or tiring towards the end of the match?
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: I knew that I had to start very concentrated the first set pushing him a lot and starting playing very good and I think I did well.  I broke him at the first game and then I served really good until the last match, until the last moment, sorry.
Q. Would you consider tonight's victory better than the one in Shanghai in 2016?
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: I think today the match was better, the level of the tennis today was very high.  We both played very good tennis and it was also more tight on the score and more emotions and today was a really good match.
Q. In the off-season when players train so much, do you come to the start of the season a little tired?  Is that possible?  Or do you come to the start of the season fresh?  Or do you feel sometimes fatigue from a month of training, a month or more of training?
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: I think the experience during the years makes you do better work every year.  I think my coach and my coaches and me handle it well.  I had a very good pre-season.  I had almost two months at home.  It is refreshing for us and also for me after ten months traveling around the world and I start very good the season because I really like these conditions and it's good for my tennis.
(Questions in Spanish).






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT