QATAR EXXONMOBIL OPEN
January 3, 2019
Roberto Bautista Agut
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Thank you for this opportunity you are giving them today.  Well played today and they have a bunch of questions for you, so are you ready to take it?
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: Yes.  I know you play tennis, yes, both of you.
THE MODERATOR: Let's start with the first question.  Who is going to start?
Q. Hello.  When you were young player, did you have dream to become champion one day?
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: I knew I had options to play very good tennis because when I was young I was playing a lot of tournaments and I was winning a lot of matches and tournaments and I knew if I had the good progression, I could be a good player.
Q. If you were not a tennis player, what would you like to be?
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: I would like to be a soccer player.  I think - I don't know if you know I was playing tennis and soccer when I was young.  I used to play in Villarreal, the club is next to my home.  And I also like to play soccer.  So, I would like to be a soccer player.
Q. What is your formula to be successful and top tennis player?  What is your advice to young players?
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: Well, my advice is - I know it's really tough to be on the top of the rankings in tennis.  My advice is to say to you that enjoy your friends, practicing.  Enjoy every day that you get the racquet on the hand.  And if you play good when you are a junior and then you have time to think on the next level.
Q. How do you spend your time outside the court?
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: Well, I really like to stay home.  As you know, we spend more than 25 weeks around the world and when I have time off I like to stay at home, stay with my folks.  I have horses also, so I like to stay with my father and that's what I like to do.
Q. Which surface is your favorite and why?
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: I like to play everywhere.  I don't have a favorite surface, but I really like the conditions here in Qatar, so it's good place to play tennis.
Q. Congratulations for today's match.  What was your plan stepping into the match against Wawrinka?
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: I was playing solid, hitting the ball hard.  I didn't want to do one step back on the court and give him the chance to play inside the court, so I think when I had the chance I played strong, I played hard and also I defend very good when I had to do it.
Q. Who was your idol and role model growing up?
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: When I was growing up, I was spending some time practicing with Ferrero and Ferrer.  These two players were - I really admired how they played tennis and I was lucky to get the chance to practice with them and spend a lot of time with them.  (Applause).






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT