QATAR EXXONMOBIL OPEN
January 3, 2019
Roberto Bautista Agut
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
R. BAUTISTA AGUT/S. Wawrinka   
6-4, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English?   
 Q.  Can you talk about what you were expecting from Stan today and how it turned out and your own consistency throughout the match?  
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: I think Stan is a really good player.  He is really a tough opponent to beat and we knew each other very well and we used to practice a lot during the tournaments.  Today I was very consistent and played with a lot of rhythm.  I think I did a very complete match.   
THE MODERATOR: Next question?   
 Q.  Stan said yesterday that you know each other very well because you have been practicing together for years.  First of all, can we say that you took your revenge from him from your only game you had together that he won three years ago in St Petersburg.  And maybe can you talk a bit about your next opponent, it might be Basilashvili or Novak Djokovic, what will you maybe change in your game?  
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: Well, we like to practice together because we practice very real, very focus and we used to practice a lot as you said and assistant said.   
And well, Basilashvili and Djokovic, they are really good players.  I don't know who is going to win today.  Well, now I think I have to enjoy the win and enjoy the victory I had and recover my body for tomorrow and prepare tactically and mentally the next game.   
 Q.  Did you speak to Rafa, or did you practice with him in the off-season?  Do you know what his condition is?  
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: Rafa normally stays in the island, Majorca, and I stay in peninsula and I don't - I heard - he told me yesterday that Rafa pull out from Brisbane.  But I think it is bad news for Spain and bad news for the tennis world and we hope to see him playing in Australia or very soon.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Spanish.   
(Questions in Spanish).   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT