DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 25, 2018
Roberto Bautista Agut
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How do you feel heading into this tournament?  How do you feel about your form heading into this tournament?
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: Well, I start the season playing very well.  I didn't play well last two weeks.  Well, I came early to get used to the conditions.  Here the ball flies a bit more.  I had already three days of practice, and ready to play tomorrow.
Q. This tournament usually has a lot of top-10 players.  This year perhaps it's a little bit different.  Do you think it makes it more open, gives you a better shot?
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: Of course.  I think the circuit now, it's more equal.  We have a lot of players playing really good level of tennis.  Everything is more equal.
As you said, I think this tournament is going to be more open because there is not many top-10 players.  I think everybody can play well here.
Q. How does that change your approach to this tournament, if it does at all?
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: Of course, no, it does.  It's a really good tournament, really special tournament for me in my schedule.  I always come to play here in Dubai.  I think it's a great opportunity to have a great week here.
Q. You didn't play for Spain in the Davis Cup against Britain.  Are you committed to Davis Cup this year?
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: Yes, I will be ready to play the next tie if the captain calls me to play.
Q. You didn't play because you were injured?
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUS: Yes.
Q. What do you expect against Germany then?
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: They have a really good team.  Zverev is one of the best players now in the world.  Well, it's a great opportunity for us because we are going to play on clay, we're going to play at home.  I think it's better for us to play the tie on clay and with our preferred conditions.
Q. Have you played on these courts?  Do you find it slower than in the previous years?  Do you think generally tennis courts are becoming slower?
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: I think here the conditions in Dubai are pretty fast.  As I said, it makes the ball fly more.  I always felt that the conditions here in Dubai are pretty fast.
Q. Otherwise do you think the courts around the world are becoming just a little bit slower?
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: Yeah, I think slower than maybe 10, 15 years ago.  I think yes.  Everything is more playable from baseline now than before.
Q. Do you think that would help the older players stay longer in tennis, because the courts are becoming slower?
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: No, I don't think that helps, no?  I think every player now is more professional.  Every player takes more care of his body, eats better, sleeps better.  I think everyone is more professional now.
Q. How does the Auckland win give you confidence coming into this match?
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: I played very well in Auckland, no?  I think I had a really good week.  It was very special for me to win the title again there, to have a really good win in the final against del Potro.  I think it was a good start of the year for me.
Q. Your best performance here is a quarterfinal.  Do you feel confident of going beyond that with this field?
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: Well, I'm going to try to play better.  But here the draw is tough.  Everyone can play good here.  The flying conditions makes the closest matches.  I think it's going to be crucial to play well on the courts in the important moments.
Q. What are your highlights from the times you've played this tournament before?  You had a couple of tough draws, haven't you?
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: Yeah, I played many years against Novak.  Well, in Dubai, it was really tough draw all years.  Well, it's a great opportunity now.  I'm seeded.  I hope to have a great week here.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT