ROLAND GARROS
June 4, 2017
Roberto Bautista Agut
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








R. NADAL/R. Agut
6-1, 6-2, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Spanish.
Q. We saw that you tried a lot of things on the court today, but it didn't really deliver because of Nadal's condition.
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: Yes, Nadal is at his best.  He plays every point with great intensity and yields nothing.
You try to take a few risks, and then of course you make more mistakes than usual.
Q. Perhaps the first set was even more difficult than what the score reflects.
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: Yes, I think.  In the first set I would have deserved better, because I had trained well, I had entered the match, I had the feeling that I was more in control.
But perhaps I didn't exactly do what I had planned to in terms of game play.
And then again, it's true that he dominated especially towards the end of the first set he had more control over the game.
Q. 6-1 against Almagro.  Almagro had played really well.  Is it really mission impossible, or did you think you could make it?
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: No, I don't think it was mission impossible, but it's very tough.  I think in the first set I was playing good tennis, but as you saw, I lost 6-1.
I had this entire game plan in my mind that I wanted to apply.  It didn't work, and I paid the price.  Perhaps I was not able today to show my best tennis, which is why I feel a little frustrated.
Q. You have played against Federer, you have played against Nadal here.  Which would you say was the most complicated match?
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: They are difficult in different ways.  Federer in Wimbledon was very difficult.  Sometimes you can't touch a ball for a very long time.
With Nadal, there are more possibilities, but it's very tough.
Q. You were saying that you felt frustrated because you couldn't show your best tennis.  How much responsibility for that is yours and how much Nadal's?
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: No, no, no.  I'm not trying to put the blame on anyone.  Nadal makes you play hard for every single point.  Everything is always intense with him.
As I said, perhaps I was not on top form.  I never managed to show my best tennis.
But there are good days and bad days.  It's like anything else in life.  Of course I did feel less comfortable than in other matches.  But he did the best, his best, in order to prevent me from giving my best tennis.
Q. We thought that Nadal was perhaps not in top form, but he seems to have recovered and he's now the favorite.  If you were to personally choose a candidate as the favorite, who would it be?
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: Well, if I had to bet on someone, you know, it's very difficult to win a Grand Slam tournament.  These champions go through very rough times.  And I think that Rafa managed to overcome all the difficulties, so if I had to bet, I'd probably place my bet on him.
Q. He got two warnings, and you didn't get any.  Do you think there is a lot of pressure from the umpires?
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: Rafa and I need to play a lot of points.  We need to run around a lot.  Having the pressure of the umpires is something we don't really need.  I don't think I really agree with that rule.
Q. Although you're a clay specialist, you play very well on grass.  What's the rest of your schedule?
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: I think the clay season was very tough for me, so now I'm going to rest for a few days.  Probably go to Halle and then to Wimbledon.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT