MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 9, 2017
Roberto Bautista Agut
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
I. KARLOVIC/R. Bautista Agut   
7-6, 6-7, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Spanish, please.   
 Q.  It was the first time you were facing Karlovic, and he served 35 aces.  Against these people, you cannot play on a slow or fast court, right?  
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: Well, it's true that in Madrid everything goes very fast.  I already knew that today's match was going to be very tough, that the scores were going to be very tight.  As you said, I did what I could.   
I think I didn't deserve to lose this match.  Well, right now I'm a little bit upset.  I think it's a normal feeling.  I'm a little bit angry, too, because of the score.   
 Q.  Do you remember playing any other match similar to this one with so many match points?  
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: Well, yes.  I think I played a couple of matches like this one.  It's true that it was a crazy match with a lot of ups and downs.  There were a lot of breakpoints.  I even had a few match points, but I wasn't able to touch the ball because it was an ace.   
Well, there were a lot of opportunities for both of us.  The match, as I said, was very tight.  It was just a coin toss.  I think it fell to his side this time.   
 Q.  I don't know if during your career you feel that on clay you're playing not very long rallies.  Rallies are quite short right now.  How do you feel about that?  Do you think tennis has shorter rallies right now?  
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: Yes, I think that tennis is progressing.  It's faster.  We don't have such long rallies as we used to have.   
But it's clear that there are a lot of people, top players, they're top players because of their serve.  Their serve helps them a lot.   
 Q.  I can imagine that playing Karlovic here with the altitude is even more complicated than playing Karlovic in another court, right?  
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: Yes, sure.  Playing Karlovic in slower conditions would have been better.  We're here in Madrid.  Madrid is a tournament which I love.  Normally the conditions suit me a lot here.   
This year unfortunately I wasn't able to make it through the first round.   
 Q.  You're the average height of a tennis player.  What handicap is it to play a player like Karlovic instead of Ferrer, for example?  
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: Well, I think you have to compensate with other things.  It's just balance.  You have to move around.  You have to return the balls well.   
It's clear that nobody has the serve that Karlovic has.  The people that are up there, they're also very good.  If they are not good at serving, they are good at returning the balls, they are good at moving around the court, they have a good backhand or forehand.  We all have our strengths and weaknesses.   
 Q.  Now that the match is over, do you think this loss was an accident in a really good year that you've had so far?  
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: Well, perhaps yes because of my level of tennis during the whole year.  The results maybe don't reflect how good I've been playing throughout the year.   
Well, we have to keep on working.  We're not going to talk about only one tournament.  It's not just about one tournament.   
Now I have time to think, to think about everything that's happened.  Of course I'm upset because I love Madrid.  I really like to play here.  For me it's one of my favorite tournaments.  Nobody likes to lose, of course - even less here at home in front of your people.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT