SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 14, 2016
Roberto Bautista Agut
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








R. BAUTISTA AGUT/J. Tsonga
6-3, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. It's already the third time that you beat Tsonga this season.  What's the key point do you think to beat Tsonga?
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: I think I played with a lot of intensity.  I put a lot of pressure on the return and I played my game, no?
I was calm.  I was very concentrated in all the match.  I think to put a lot of rhythm to make the match with high intensity, I think, was the key to beat him.
Q. Can you just talk about what you're feeling right now?  You're into a semifinal of a Masters 1000 tournament.  These are the biggest tournaments outside of the Grand Slams.  Just thoughts on the way you are playing at the moment.
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: I'm happy, no?  I'm happy about being in the semifinal.  But also, I'm happy with the way I'm working, with the way I'm planning all my days, with the way I'm playing on the court.
I'm feeling great.  I hope to continue like this.
Q. In your career, your winning percentage on clay and hard court is very similar, but last year and especially this year you're doing much better on hard courts.  Why is that?
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: I think I can play my game everywhere.  I had good results on every surface.  I feel well everywhere, no?
But this week I'm feeling good with the court, with the balls, with the conditions.  I think I'm playing one of my best tennis here.
Q. You have played Novak Djokovic a couple of times at Grand Slams and have won a set off Novak.  If you play him here the way you're playing, do you have a lot of confidence that maybe you can beat the world No. 1?
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: I think I am playing well and I'm doing the things well to face Novak.  For sure it's a good moment to face him.  Novak is the best, is one of the best tennis players in the history.  And, well, I played against him a couple of really good matches.  I know if I play good I can make him a difficult match.
Q. You wrote down "papa and mama" and a heart on the camera after the match.  Is today a special day for your parents?  Do they always watch your match on TV when you're playing?
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: Yes, we love each other very much.  I just wanted to dedicate the match to them.  I just missing them.  I wanted to dedicate the match for them.
Q. You and Novak both know each other very well.  You may have a chance to play against him next round.  Have you ever considered about to change the way you play or just stick to your game?  Ever change your game in any aspect?
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: I think I have to play my game against every player, no?  I have to look to myself.  I have to think on myself, to think on my game.  If I do my things well, I can make in trouble every player, no?






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT