SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 15, 2016
Roberto Bautista Agut
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
R. BAUTISTA AGUT/N. Djokovic   
6-4, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  It's a big win for you.  Can you just talk about the last game with so many break points, match points?  How did you end this match?  
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: It is tough to close a match in maybe my important match in my career, no, the best?  It was tough.  I had three match points with my serve.  I was a little bit nervous, but I could handle well.   
I played three good points.  He played better points than me.  And then it was good that I continue working or continue playing the same.  I force him to play another good game and I could make it then with 5-4.   
 Q.  You seemed to be enjoying yourself.  You were smiling in the course of the match.  Did you enjoy yourself?  Were you relaxed?  
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: I tried enjoy, no?  (Smiling.)  Is not easy to enjoy with the pressure, with the nerves, but I'm doing well, no?  I'm very focused.  I'm very concentrated during all the week and playing good tennis.  When you play good, you enjoy more.   
 Q.  Can you just describe your emotions now, making your first Masters 1000 final, beating the world No. 1 to get there?  
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: I didn't have time enough to think on that, but after the passing shot in the last point, I was so happy I couldn't imagine me to closing the match against Novak.   
And, well, I can't describe how I feel.  I'm so happy.  I played really good tennis this week, and I hope to play the same tennis tomorrow in the final and enjoy the final.   
 Q.  Were you at all surprised with how you unnerved him, like the broken racquet and the ripped shirt and everything, that you were bothering him so much?  
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: Yes, I tried to force him to play his best tennis.  I think in the first set he played some good tennis.  He played a little bit better than me.  But then I knew that I had to increase the level.  I had to play more aggressive, to play better tennis if I wanted to win the match.   
And then with 5-4, I started to play more aggressive and I started to play better tennis.   
 Q.  Novak just say he's not feeling good mentally.  As a player, how do you describe that kind of a thing, not feeling good mentally?  
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: It's not easy to handle the pressure in this sport.  Of course you cannot feel the same during all the season.  We are playing a lot of weeks, we are having some good moments, some bad moments during all the year.   
He's the best player in the world.  That's why he can handle these things and the pressure better than the others.  That's why he's No. 1.  It's normal for him to don't feel well sometimes.   
 Q.  With this win, you're projected to move up to possibly No. 13 or higher.  What would it mean for you to get back to the top 10?  
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: I need to play more weeks like this, and I'm planning my work with my coaches.  And in one direction I think I'm working well, doing a lot of things well, and that's why then the results are coming, no?   
I hope to continue doing the same job.  If I do this, maybe I have the chance to be.   
 Q.  You were close to Novak at the French Open this year.  It seems tactically you found things that really work against him.  Can you just share some of them.  
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: I played a really good match in Paris, no?  I think I had chances to be two sets to one up in Paris.   
Well, it's not easy to play Novak when he's playing really good.  I'm so happy I could beat him, no?  The first time I remember I played him I thought he was from another planet, and now I think I'm closer to him.   
 Q.  Novak has a lot of fans cheering for him today.  Does it affect you, your performance, in any way?  
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: I think that the crowd in Shanghai is very respectful.  It's normal the No. 1 has a lot of support from the fans.   
But it's great, no?  The atmosphere here in Shanghai is nice.  The people respect the players, and we have nice feelings on the court.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT