DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 23, 2016
Roberto Bautista Agut
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








R. BAUTISTA AGUT/S. Bolelli
6-2, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. That must have been fairly comfortable for you.  No break points against you?
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: Yes.  I served really well.  I think I played very solid during all the match.  I was returning well and pushing a lot of pressure on him and returning everything.
And also to do the break early made me serve well and made me serve a bit more confident.
Q. You must have a lot of confidence.  Two titles already this year.  Novak, I think, is the only other one who has managed to do that.
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: Yes.  It was the best start of the season for me, so I have to be confident for sure.
I feel great on the court, and I feel I have a lot of rhythm.  I played a lot of matches.  So it's good, no, to win matches and to be with confidence.
Q. Can you talk about your next match, your thoughts on your next match.
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: It's gonna be a difficult match.  He's a very good player on hard court.  He's winning and doing good.  He did a great year last year.
He has a really good backhand, he moves well, he runs well.  So it's gonna be a difficult match.
Q. What was the secret?  Did you do something during the offseason that is sort of bringing you this success?
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: No secret, no?  I think in tennis you play two months well and then you get good results, and then two months you lose in quarters or semis and nobody hears nothing about you, and then you win two tournaments and everybody starts talking about you.
I'm the same person.  I did the same work last year than this year.  It's just the continue of the work of these years.
Q. Do you set any particular goals tournament after tournament?  Do you set any particular goals season after season?
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: For sure, no?  All of you like to talk about the rankings.  I wanted to be closer as my best ranking two years ago.
But I'm not focused on the numbers, not on the rankings.  I like to work well, to think on the things I have to do well every day.  That's the important thing and where I am focused about.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT