MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 10, 2014
Roberto Bautista Agut
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. NADAL/R. Bautista Agut
  6‑4, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in Spanish, please.   
   
 Q.   With this point you're up in the top 30.   It is important for you to be up there before Roland Garros?   
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT:   Well, being a seeded player in Roland Garros and being able to make it to the semifinals in a tournament like this, it gives my a lot of confidence to keep on playing at this level.  
Of course not playing against the seeded players first or second round in Grand Slam is a pretty important.   
   
 Q.   Well, we've seen you very emotional when you were leaving the court, as if you didn't want to leave.   
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT:   Well, yeah, it's been a beautiful week for me.   Perhaps I have the feeling that I could have played today's match a little bit better.  
But, you know, that was the cause for when I left the court I had that bad feeling.   
   
 Q.   Could you explain the absence of Pedro during this week in Madrid?   
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT:   I'm not with him anymore.   Last week we finished.   
   
 Q.   Can we know why?  
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT:   Yeah.   Well, you know, when you stop working with a coach it's because you're not happy with what he's bringing to your game and you're seeking other stuff.   
   
 Q.   I would like to know if you're satisfied with your performance in today's match against Rafa?   How did you feel?   
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT:   I didn't play ever against Rafa.   I think that if right now I would have to face the match I would face it in a different way.   Perhaps I had some up and downs.   I had good moments and not that good moments.  
Well, perhaps I was also a bit tired.   Also, you know, I don't have the experience of playing against him.   Maybe that's the why I played the way I played the game, because I didn't have the experience.  
   
 Q.   In the past, perhaps you had some injuries and you were not able to be so consistent.   This year you're better physically talking.   Do you think you can keep on with this rhythm until the end of the season?   
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT:   Yeah, physically I feel really good.   I think I'm in a really good moment that I've never been in before.   I finish the matches, and the next day I wake up and I feel perfectly in order to play another match.   I think that's the most important thing.  
Afterward my level I think is going to keep on going the same during the rest of the year.   I'm happy with what I've been doing recently, so I hope that the rest will keep on going in the same line.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT