ROLAND GARROS
October 3, 2020
Roberto Bautista Agut
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  P. CARRENO BUSTA/R. Bautista Agut
 6-4, 6-3, 5-7, 6-4
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. A question on the match.  What made the difference today in this one between you and Pablo?
 ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT:   Well I think the match was very close, first set I was break up, fourth set I was break up and well I think he was maybe more stable than me on the bad moment.  He was recovering well and he was staying more on the, more focused on the match after the tough moments.
 When he did the break back in the first set he come back strong.  In the fourth set it was the same, no?  And me, when I got the break back I was a little bit disappointed and it took me awhile to recover the focus and I think this was the difference today.
 Q. How about just in general, you've had a lot to do with some very good news with you before the last couple weeks, the birth of your first child, how do you sum up these last few weeks at home and then coming to Roland Garros having to play, how would you describe these last few weeks for you?
 ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT:   Well it was very nice experience we had at home.  We have a baby now, everything is new.  I could not practice before Germany as much as I want but I think I played six matches these two weeks, it was all the matches playing in good level and, well, I have to keep working and now I will take some days off to spend with my wife and my kid and I will enjoy that and then I will have time to come back to the tour.
 Q. What's it been like so far?  You van been a dad for that long, but what has it been like for you so far being a father and your perspective, has that all changed, what's it been like for you so far?
 ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT:   I feel again the feeling of having a family, so it's very nice, it's an amazing feeling and, well, I just, now I need some time at home to enjoy them and to feel a little bit what it is to be a father because I could stay only at home for three days after his birth and good, that's it.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT