DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 23, 2020
Roberto Bautista Agut
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How do you feel about your game heading into this tournament?
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: I feel well, no? I think it was a great month in Australia for me. I've been working at home well. I did all my stuff, all the physical work well.
I think I'm ready to play a good week in Dubai.
Q. You played so many matches in ATP Cup. Was that difficult for you to be at your best in Australia? Did you feel it in your body?
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: Of course I feel it, no? But sometimes when you are winning a lot of matches you worry because you are a little bit tired. Sometimes you worry when you are not winning matches that you need some rhythm on the court.
I think it was also a good week in Australia. I lost against Cilic in the third round in the fifth set playing a great match. I think it was a great two tournaments for the start of the season.
Q. How much of this do you ascribe to what happened in Wimbledon last your, from that point?
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: What?
Q. How much do you give the success at Wimbledon...
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: Wimbledon was maybe the best tournament I played in my life. Well, I think it was a great experience. I think I learn a lot from it. I hope I can do the same results in the next years.
Q. You won here two, three years ago. What do you expect from this tournament?
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: I like Dubai. I like the conditions here. I think it's great for my game, great for my tennis. It's one of my favorite tournaments in the year.
I feel well, no? Sometimes the results are a little bit particular. Sometimes you not play your best and you win matches. Sometimes you play well and you lose tight matches, no?
I think I'm physically well. I feel in a good shape and ready to play a great tournament.
Q. You have a tough one from the start against Struff. How do you see that match?
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: He's a great player. He can play very aggressive. He can play very fast. We'll see, no? It's going to be the first match here in the desert, which always makes it more difficult.
Well, I will have to be very concentrate, very prepare. I will try to be very solid and try to beat him.
Q. Your marriage last year, how has life changed for you? Is it any different?
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: It's not different, no (smiling)? I married with a great girl. She's helping me a lot. She did also help a lot in the past.
We are good together. We try to help us in our lives.
Q. You're seen as a player with special dedication towards the game, which was exhibited in a great way at the end of the year with Davis Cup, the sad events which happened. You were applauded for this. Do you see these qualities as perhaps lacking among the younger players? How do you suggest they should do in order to develop the love for the game as much as perhaps you and a couple other players have?
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: What I can say is what I passed was very difficult for me. I won't say anything in particular to one other person or another player having the same situation, no? I cannot say anything. I think anyone has his own decision. Everyone has to think on what he's doing.
In my case the tennis help me a lot to escape everything at home, trying to have the mind on my job. Also travel some weeks was good for me and for my mind.
As I worked a lot during all my life to be where I am, I didn't want to stop the development, to stop my tennis career. I think that's why I kept fighting hard. I wanted to be where I am now.
Q. ATP Cup and Davis Cup, you played both. What can you say? What you prefer? To keep Davis Cup or the new system with ATP Cup is better?
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: What I experience both weeks was very nice. In particular for me to be playing during all my life as a single sport, single tournament, I think it's great to have some team matches, some team competitions. I think it's good for the involve of the fans, of the tennis fans. I think it's great for the tennis. It's also great for all of us.
Q. Yesterday Simona Halep won here. You know what I mean. You are a past champion here also. What do you think your chances are to win Dubai again?
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: Well, the tournament didn't start yet. I will talk about that if I feel I'm in a good shape and I've already won some matches.
As we are in the beginning, it's still very soon to talk about that. I still have a lot of good opponents to beat. I will have to be very concentrate since the first match.
Q. Back to Davis Cup for a second. I saw how the team rallied around you. What kind of bond do you feel you have made with these players, even though you've known them for years? Talk about that, how you feel.
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: It was very special, no? The feeling that week was amazing. I really enjoyed playing team competition for Spain. Everyone help me a lot. Everyone support me since the first day. Everyone support me, everyone was behind me. At the Davis Cup it was the same situation.
Q. You like horses. Have you been to any stables here?
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: I've been.
Q. What was that experience like?
ROBERTO BAUTISTA AGUT: I've been here in (indiscernible) with the polo horses. I think it was two years ago. I enjoy.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT