U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2020
Wilson Furr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. So your emotions at this point?
 WILSON FURR:   Mad.
 Q. What are you most disappointed about?
 WILSON FURR:   I don't know.  I played good.  I was bogey-free 3-under through 18 and hit a great drive in the playoff and hit it right where I was looking at the exact club, exact shot I was looking at, thought it was a foot, and I walked up there and I was 60 yards down the hill, and I guess it had landed on the front edge or something and spun off.  I'm still not sure.  But I thought it was -- I thought I had won the match on a shot and I ended up losing it on it, so I don't even know what to say.
 Q. What kind of club did you have?
 WILSON FURR:   I had 132 and hit pitching wedge, and it was a perfect number, I had it three holes before, a couple holes before.  It was perfect.  But I don't know, I'm not sure.
 Q. You had to battle back today and you did.  What turned as you turned for home, you kicked it into gear.  What was going on?
 WILSON FURR:   I mean, I just made all pars on the first eight holes, just wasn't making any putts and made a nice putt on 9, nice putt on 10 to get it back to even and then birdied the par-5, 13, and then just -- I don't know, just somehow lost.
 Q. How did you birdie 13?
 WILSON FURR:   I hit it to 20 feet for eagle, two-putted.
 Q. At that point did you feel like you had steadied the ship?
 WILSON FURR:   I guess so.  I was playing solid all day, so I didn't really ever feel like I was out of it.  Played solid up until there.
 Q. I saw 18, you looked like you were in pretty good shape in two --
 WILSON FURR:   Yeah, I didn't know whether to play it off the left slope or try to land it on the front edge.  So I went for the front edge shot, like a high one on the front edge and I landed about four or five yards short, not a great shot.  Obviously he two-putted, made birdie.  Props to him.
 Q. Obviously disappointed now, but what will you take away from this whole experience?
 WILSON FURR:   I learned a lot about my game for sure, but I'm going to be disappointed.  It's going to sting.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT