NCAA WOMEN'S 1ST AND 2ND ROUNDS: STANFORD
March 25, 2019
Jeff Judkins
Jasmine Moody
Shaylee Gonzales
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Stanford 72, BYU 63   
COACH JEFF JUDKINS: First of all, I'm very, very proud of my team.  I really felt that they came out with a lot of fight and did the things that we needed to do.  We just had one bad quarter.  Probably a bad eight minutes that really hurt us, and against a great team like Stanford, you just can't afford to do that.  You can't have those lapse that long.   
But I'm just really proud of them.  We're young.  This is something we've been working hard for, and to be able to be in the tournament and come and play at Stanford where they have only lost one game this year, and compete like they did, makes me really, really proud of them, and know that it's just a start for us.  We're going to continue to get better.   
Stanford is a very good team, very seasoned, well-coached, and some day, that's where we're going to be.  There's no doubt in my mind.  We're just going to keep working.   
We love this tournament.  It was a fun time being here.  Our team grew in so many different ways to make us a better team for the next few years, and like I said, I love coaching these guys.  They have given all they need to.  They have been hard workers and done whatever they need to for this team to win, so thank you.   
 Q.  Shaylee, a freshman, and you had this tremendous game, perfect from three, perfect from the line.  Disappointing loss but how do you feel about the way you played in your first year?  
SHAYLEE GONZALES: You know, it wasn't just all me.  It was my team, too.  They were the ones who were getting me open and setting screens for me and just play-making and the spacing.  You know, it's an amazing experience to be where I am at right now, and I feel very pleased and very honored to be with this amazing team, and amazing coaches that make me better on and off the floor.   
 Q.  Shaylee, I wish I could articulate this, but such a tremendous game.  You were talking yesterday that Stanford had recruited you a little bit and that you felt motivated by that.  I mean, was this kind of an, I'm-just-as-good-as-those-kind-of-national-recruits-that-they-get thing for you?  
SHAYLEE GONZALES: Yeah, coming into this game, like you said, I was being recruited by them, and I just wanted to prove myself and show that, like, even if you're a freshman, you can do anything, and it doesn't matter if you're a senior or a freshman.  Just work hard, work your butt off and it will pay off in the end.   
 Q.  How much can a game like this where you get to measure yourself against a program like Stanford, not just you personally, but the team, how much can this motivate you guys next year?  
SHAYLEE GONZALES: This will motivate us big time.  Coming into this game, we knew that was going to be tough, and as the No. 2 seed, we knew that they were going to -- we just know that they are going to hit their shots, and we've got to work in the post.   
I think we played very well against them.  Like Juddy said, I think the third quarter was our worst quarter where we were being kind of selfish and I think that fourth quarter, we got back and we were playing good defense and scoring, and just that energy that was brought was very helpful for us.   
JASMINE MOODY: Also, like she said, this loss motivates us for next year because we know we want to be a team like Stanford, where we want to host at the Marriott.  We know what work needs to be done this summer and we're motivated to do it.   
 Q.  For both of you, did Stanford change up anything defensively on you in the third quarter or you guys started missing shots?  
JASMINE MOODY: I think not only did we miss a little bit of the shots, but we kind of started getting a little bit tired.  And with Stanford, we can't afford to be tired.  We have to like keep up our energy and be consistent the whole time.  I think getting a little tired and being selfish is what caused the drought a little bit.   
SHAYLEE GONZALES: Yeah.   
 Q.  We've talked all year about how young this team is, and you guys are returning every active player I think except for one who is graduating, but is that any bit of a consolation?  I don't want to talk about moral victories or anything, but is it a consolation knowing that you guys can keep growing and you have another year to grow and gel and come together?  
JASMINE MOODY: Yes, we know this is just the beginning.  It's just the start.  We got a little bit of taste of the NCAA and we know that we want to keep coming back here consistently forever.  We know with this young team that we can only get better from here.   
 Q.  Can you talk about Shaylee's development, freshman comes in, immensely talented, but to come through the season and get to the point where she can have this kind of game, 32 points against the sixth-best team in the country, if you believe rankings.  
JASMINE MOODY: I didn't even know she had 32 points to be honest, but good job, Shaylee, that's amazing.   
Shaylee has really grown this year.  She has really taken to heart what the coaches and us as teammates have said to her.   
She really listens well and tries to adjust her game and I think that's honestly what's helped her is being open and listen.  She knows she's a good player but listening to tear teammates and her coaches is what helps her to develop her game to be even better.  She's only go to get better from here and we're so blessed and happy to have her as part of our team.   
 Q.  The players were saying that fatigue and selfishness, I don't know, were problems in the third quarter.  How did you see it?  
COACH JEFF JUDKINS: I think what Jasmine said was Stanford's really physical, and they are physical on us coming off ball screens with using their body and pushing and hitting us, and I think after a period of time it sometimes wears you out more than running up and down the court.   
It's just getting hit constantly.  It's kind of like an offensive lineman that keeps hitting the guy and eventually the defensive line gets slower and gets tired.   
We're not used to it.  In our league, surprisingly, those refs, the Pac-12 in our league, they don't let us get as physical as that, and I think it affected us tonight where we weren't used to it.   
I know right now, when I talk to them in practice, that you've got to cut harder.  You've got to be stronger.  You've got to be more balanced.  They are going to listen a lot more to me now because that's what I'm talking about.  Teams that are physical, doing it.   
I really thought Shaylee, personally, she missed some thoughts that she usually doesn't miss and part of it was just getting hit and not being able to finish that, but what a great -- I didn't realize she had that many points.  I knew she had a good game, but 32 is pretty sweet for a freshman and in a tournament against a very, very good team.   
But I think that's what we needed to do better.  We've got to get more inside presence.  Tonight we just couldn't get the ball inside like we should, and I think that hurt us, too.   
 Q.  Paisley picked up her fourth foul pretty early, how did that affect your play?  
COACH JEFF JUDKINS: It hurt us because her sub is Maria, who is a 5'8 point guard, has to go in and try to battle Smith and all these monster players in there, and it just hurts us.  No matter how much Maria wants to compete, you know, when somebody is taller, they are just going to get the rebound over you.   
So that affected us tonight.  Paisley, you saw the first half, is a really explosive player, and she's not used to that.  She's not used to people being as physical as she is and I'm sure after this game she will see that, you know, you've got to be a little more balanced when you pull up on your shot, don't rush it and do some of those things and then not create dumb fouls in a big game like that.   
But Paisley has been a solid kid all year, and she's really kind of been the physical player on our team.   
 Q.  Brenna had a good game last time against Auburn, but she was scoreless for most of the game until it was two 3s in the third quarter I think.  What was going on with her?  Was it the defense or was she just off?  
COACH JEFF JUDKINS: They did a really good job on her.  They denied her everywhere.  They didn't help off her.  They -- they didn't want her to shoot, bottom line.   
Brenna needs to use her teammates a little bit better to get open than just cutting, and I think that's something that I can't wait to sit down with her and show her and say, you've got to do a better job with that.   
But the good thing about Brenna is she didn't get all upset about it that she doesn't get shots.  She's trying to get her teammates ready to go and she didn't worry about that, but it really hurt us tonight with her not getting shots that we normally expect from her.   
She did it, like you said, the fourth quarter.  But that third quarter, she couldn't get anything, and that's -- that's something -- I tried to run a couple plays for her and they just bodied her through the screens and she couldn't do it.   
She's never going to be the strongest kid out there, but if she can learn to use her teammates and use jasmine as a screener and run people into them, then she'll be able to get herself free.   
 Q.  First half defensively was like the Auburn game, disrupting their shots and getting hands on passes and all of that.  Third quarter, though, they started to hit a lot of shots.  Was that your kids getting a little bit tired or was stand for doing anything different?  
COACH JEFF JUDKINS: They really overloaded a lot and they tried to screen our center, Sara, and tried to get some cuts underneath the basket.  We got caught a couple times with that, and then they really seemed to focus more of getting the ball in the corner the second half with their threes, and you know, when Smith's hitting them out there, it's really tough.  I really thought that they penetrated as good as any team against us in that zone, and that hurt us.   
We had to attack and they kicked it, and that give them some shots.  You know, I'm playing a 5'10 power forward that has the heart of a line and after a period of time, you get tired and you can't maybe close out as fast or your length.  I think that's kind of what happened a little bit to us tonight.   
I wanted to play a little more man because I knew Stanford would do that, but we just had a really hard time guarding their inside presence.  That's why we had to go more zone.   
 Q.  As you take this team into next year, how much of this game do you show them as a measuring stick?  You said before you want to be Stanford and be this way.  How much will this game allow you to take that to them?  
COACH JEFF JUDKINS: When I'm talking to them and teaching them in skill development during the summer, I think they will realize we did get pushed around a little and we need to get stronger.  They are going to get in the weight room, I guarantee you and work a lot harder than that; so when they get hit they don't lose their wind.   
I think more importantly, I don't know if it's the Shock, but I think getting here and playing against a real physical team on the road -- they only lost one game here, that was against Oregon and Oregon shot lights out.  To know that they hung with them, and just one eight-minute stretch where they just didn't play up to par, cost them the game.  I think it's going to really help us with our confidence.   
You know, we got a lot of young kids that this is the first big game of their life, and I think they will really learn from that and hopefully -- they are not satisfied.  Let me put it that way.  We've got another game.  They will be ready to go, which I think that's going to help us.   
Thanks, we really enjoyed being here, Stanford.  You did a great job with everything.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT