CHICAGO FIRE MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 3, 2020
Raphael Wicky
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Chicago - 2, Montreal - 2
THE MODERATOR:   We'll take questions for coach.
Q. I guess for you guys starting, I think, eight games this month how important was it for you guys to battle back and get at least a point out of tonight's match?
RAPHAEL WICKY:   Yeah, it was very important.  I'm happy about the reaction.  It's never easy on the road.  You all know that.  It's never easy when you get, out of nothing get a goal like this and then there was a really good reaction of the team.  I think in general they pushed well.  We pushed, could have gone both sides, but at the end of the day we take the point.  But it was a good reaction, which is important.
Q. What can you say about Robert Beric's form right now and what does it mean to have a team or what does it do to for a team to have a guy in that kind of goal-scoring form?
RAPHAEL WICKY:   That's what every team needs, right?  A guy who scores, who knows where the goal is.  And we knew that when we brought Robert in.  I think it wasn't an easy year overall for everyone, for sure not for him as well.  He had a little bit of a dry period.  But I think it's important that you always keep believing and always keep working.  And he's a striker who has proven goal-scoring records over the years.  They know where the goal is.  If they have a little dry period, they just don't have to doubt.  It's important to work, keep working.  And yeah, I'm very happy for him and I'm, for me, it's, I'm happy for the team.
Q. How would you rate Francisco's performance tonight.  He had the game-tying goal and also some strong plays defensively.  How do you think he did?
RAPHAEL WICKY:   Yeah, I mean, I have to see the game again and see the details, but overall the feeling I have now from him and I also told him that on the way back in is that this is what I want.  I want you to be that solid defender, that defender who wins these challenges, who steps in front players, who win the headers.  And I think he has done a good job in that.
Then obviously I have to look at certain details he can probably do better, but I think that was a strong performance with the ball.  Like I told him as well, keep it simple with the ball.  I think there is just one or two moment where he can improve but I think that was, again, that was a step in the right direction for him and I'm happy with his performance.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT