BIG EAST CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 15, 2008
Roy Hibbert
Jessie Sapp
John Thompson III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  It appeared that your team really failed to match their intensity.  You look at the offensive numbers particularly, that seems to be the difference in the game.  What jumps out at you about that? 
 COACH THOMPSON III:  They hurt us on the boards.  It was evident right from the beginning.  You know, who, what, when, where, why, I don't know.  I thought our guys fought and scrapped.  But the rebounding was key. 

 Q.  At the end of the first half, they were outrebounding you.  Those are hustle plays.  How did you address that at the beginning of the second half, because I really saw your team get out-hustled particularly on the boards. 
 COACH THOMPSON III:  It just happens.  It's one of those days.  I agree, it did happen.  And you've got to give them all the credit in the world.  That's a team that's gone through a lot of adversity this year with the injuries that they've had. 
 Obviously, Jamie is a terrific coach.  They've done a terrific job of sticking together and staying focused as a unit.  So you've got to give just all the credit to them for what they accomplished today. 

 Q.  What will you take away from these three games heading into the NCAAs? 
 COACH THOMPSON III:  I got to digest it before I can answer that question, I guess.  This the second part of the year has just ended.  The third part of the year is getting ready to start.  So as we try to do all the time, you know, you can't have too many high highs, you can't have too many low lows.  That's hard to say that right now because it doesn't feel too good right now. 
 But, you know, we're not a group that feels sorry for ourselves.  So now we've got to regroup.  We have to grow, we have to be better.  As I said all year, we have to be better next week than we are this week.  So you don't want to ruin the third part of the year because you're feeling sorry for yourself about losing tonight.  We have to move on.  We have to move on. 

 Q.  Last year you guys were able to ride the wave of winning Big East Tournament into the Final Four.  But how do you guys turn this loss and still be able to keep your chins up for the tournament? 
 ROY HIBBERT:  No matter what, we just have to bounce back.  Figure things out.  Look at stuff from this past game and just move on to the next segment of the year. 

 Q.  Jessie, did that team play like a team that had played four games in four days? 
 JESSIE SAPP:  They just played like they wanted to win.  They did a lot of hustle plays.  And you wouldn't have known that they played in four days.  They just played hard, and congratulations to those guys. 

 End of FastScripts… 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT