BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 27, 2015
James Morrison
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   5‑under, 16‑under total, give us your thoughts on that performance today?
JAMES MORRISON:   Yeah, played good again.   Same every day.   Played really well.   Didn't really give anything away.   The last was disappointing but had such a bad lie on the left‑hand side and to that pin, doesn't take much to hit it over to the other side into the water.   Duffed it but kind of the way it goes. 

Q.   One behind coming in today.   What was your mind‑set? 
JAMES MORRISON:   Keeping it low.   Again the same thing every day.   The scoring has always been low over the years, so just got to keep going low and keep making birdies and tried to do that and I did that.

Q.   How difficult is it keeping that mind‑set going into tomorrow?
JAMES MORRISON:   We'll see.   I'll keep trying.   Draw on Spain's good vibes and see what happens.

Q.   You're looking really confident and comfortable out there.   What has that victory done for you? 
JAMES MORRISON:   Not playing much different than I've done in the last probably year or so.   But as you know, golf is a funny game, and the margins are so fine, and every part of my game is coming together and it's coming together at the right time.

Q.   Are you a leaderboard watcher? 
JAMES MORRISON:   I won't be looking at any tomorrow, try not to look at any tomorrow.   But they are nicely placed where your eyes are looking.

Q.   Very strong performance today.   What was the particular highlight for you?
JAMES MORRISON:   Just drove it good.   Kept it in play.   Gave myself plenty of chances and holed them.   Like I said, the last, disappointing, but in‑between clubs and hit the poor lady in the arm.   Hope she's all right.   We'll see tomorrow. 

Q.   Special day in the life of James Morrison. 
JAMES MORRISON:   It was a good day again.   I played steady.   Didn't do too much wrong and nearly had a bogey‑free round apart from the last via someone's arm.   But had a bad lie over there.   It is what it is.   It was a hard chip and happens sometimes.

Q.   Looked like you had lovely control, even when there were moments when it threatened to get away.   You salvaged things with a lovely run of birdies again?
JAMES MORRISON:   The golf course has so many opportunities, so just got to keep going and keep making birdies and I did that, and get out of play, get back into play.   It was good. 

Q.   Were you conscious of your position on the board? 
JAMES MORRISON:   Kind of.   I had a few glances.   Miles to go yet, especially on this golf course, anyone can win from any score.   You can shoot 63 in a heartbeat.   Just keep going forward and keep making birdies and come out tomorrow and see what happens.

Q.   Presumably you'll try not to look at the leaderboards, just in your normal frame of mind, but when you're totting up the scores and moving clear, that must be nice to know?
JAMES MORRISON:   It's nice to know when you're moving a couple clear here and there.   It's going to be hard not to look at them.   I'll try but go from there. 

Q.   You okay having seen the lady at the last? 
JAMES MORRISON:   Not nice to see.   We shouted "fore" but it went over the grandstand and hit her on the arm so she was none the wiser.   Not very nice when you hit somebody but hopefully she'll be all right.

Q.   What's the approach into the final day now that in a sense, I daresay, you're used to it after being the Spanish Open champion?
JAMES MORRISON:   Yeah, kind of, yeah.   Two‑shot lead I think.   Keep going forward.   If I can get to 20‑under par, I'll have a good chance.   That's the main goal and just keep making birdies. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT