PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2015
James Morrison
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Very solid start to things here.  How pleased were you with your run today?
JAMES MORRISON: Very pleased, played great all day, really.  Made a couple of silly bogeys, but you're going to make bogeys out there.  It's an amazing golf course.  Just played really well.  I'm pleased.
Q. Wind is getting up.  Will it make much of a difference?
JAMES MORRISON: I think so.  Hasn't been much wind all week, and it's starting to dry out and get a bit firmer.  18 was tough.  There will be a lot of trouble for the guys this afternoon.
Q. Where does this rank in terms of your majors?
JAMES MORRISON: Definitely up there.  It's so nice to turn the corner, I'm on the leaderboard at the first US PGA.  It's my fourth major now and I'm starting to feel a little bit more comfortable.  I'm really enjoying it.  It's up there as one of the best rounds I've played for sure.
Q. What does it mean to you to be here and the opportunities it can give a young golfer like yourself?
JAMES MORRISON: Here you know you're here by merit.  Everyone is here because they've earned it.  It's probably the best field you'll get all year.  And it seems more pleasing to know you qualified to get here through hard work.  It's a nice feeling.
Q. How does that change your mentality?  Do you feel a bit more confident in yourself?
JAMES MORRISON: Definitely.  I'm here to compete and do my best.  I've got past that first few majors to get the T-shirts and hats and blankets.  And I feel like I'm actually here to compete.  I'm here to play well.  And I've done that.  Whatever I shoot tomorrow, I shoot tomorrow, it's the way it goes.  And I'll do my best shot.
Q. What will you do with your afternoon now?  Do you get away from the golf?
JAMES MORRISON: I don't know actually, I think I'll have lunch, a couple of coffees, maybe, a little workout, massage, pedicure, manicure (laughter).
No, just chill in the afternoon and watch the wind blow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT