PILOT PEN INTERNATIONAL
August 17, 1996
Jan Siemerink
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. (Inaudible)?

JAN SIEMERINK: Actually, I can't. I mean, that's just how it goes on the Tour, I think.
You know, the only thing is that you just try to put a lot of work in all the time. It's
not if you lose early, it's not that you're not doing anything. You keep practicing, you
keep working on your game, and you keep believing that it will return. That's the whole
thing. As long as you keep doing that, the results will finally come, I guess.

Q. Wayne said you're a bit of a dying breed, a guy who is still serve and volleying. Do
you think of yourself that way?

JAN SIEMERINK: No, not really. I mean, that's the way I play. I play serve and volley
first and second. You don't see so many guys doing that anymore. That's my game. I have to
work on that part of my game. I'm not the kind of guy who plays well from the baseline, so
serve and volley is my best game. If you want to win, you have to play your best game, I
think.

Q. Jan, what were you thinking down Love-40 in the seventh game of the third set?

JAN SIEMERINK: What can you think? I mean, just try to win the match point and see what
happens. I mean, Wayne is the kind of guy who can hit winners from any position. That can
happen at Love-40, 15-40, 30-40. I just try to play the points the way I should play them.
I luckily won those games. Those were very important for the match.

Q. He Wasn't very effective on his serve. I guess you (inaudible) three, four times,
five or six losers. Is that something you try to concentrate on when he wasn't dominating
on the serve?

JAN SIEMERINK: You mean him?

Q. Yes.

JAN SIEMERINK: Yeah. Especially when Wayne was getting his first serve in, I was in
trouble of course. When he was putting a lot of second serves in, I had a chance to come
in. I think I won a lot of pints on his second serve, just by coming into his backhand and
making some points. Of course, when his first serve was in, he won the points most of the
time.

Q. Jan, do you feel you can win this tournament, regardless whether it's Alex O'Brien
and Mark Philippoussis?

JAN SIEMERINK: No, because tomorrow whoever I'm playing, he deserves to be in the final
also, so he will probably think the same. I mean, it's going to be a tough match again
because both finalists for tomorrow also playing very well this week, so I can't expect to
win the tournament then, but I'm going to try to.

Q. How do you feel heading in? Feel tired?

JAN SIEMERINK: Well, actually during the match, during my single's match, I was feeling
a little bit tired already, but it doesn't mean that it's over. I mean, you just have to
push yourself a little bit further and just keep concentrating on the games. But, yeah,
tonight I will have a good sleep I think before the final, yeah.

Q. Affect you when you play doubles?

JAN SIEMERINK: No. Well, I'm not tired, but doubles is more mental. You play singles,
you put all your energies in your singles, then you have to play doubles again. It's more
you have to set your mind to it. Doubles you play with two guys and you play half court.
It's easy like that.

Q. Do you prefer to play singles or doubles?

JAN SIEMERINK: My priority is in singles, of course. I prefer to play both because I
enjoy both, yeah.

Q. (Inaudible) in the finals, but I don't think referring to you as much as Richard.

JAN SIEMERINK: Or maybe Haarhuis, you never know. I don't know what you want me to say.

Q. You had a good week? 

JAN SIEMERINK: Yeah, exactly. I've been playing up and down. I mean, I didn't play so
well in the beginning. The last couple matches, my game is there, and that's a nice
feeling. Gives you some confidence for the final also for tomorrow. Just keep playing like
this, I have a good shot. The same for the other guy.

Q. Can you give us one top of your head thought on Philippoussis's game and one top of
your head thought on Alex's game?

JAN SIEMERINK: No. I saw Mark this afternoon. I said we should practice more on the
Sunday of a tournament, because we did, and we're both in the semifinals. That's nice. I
don't know. They're both different players, they have a different game. It's going to be
interesting any way who I'm playing.

Q. How do you count the two of them head to head, you've played both of them?

JAN SIEMERINK: No. I played Alex once, I think, yeah. I never play Philippoussis.

Q. Have you ever practiced with him?

JAN SIEMERINK: Yes. We practiced on Sunday.

Q. The first time?

JAN SIEMERINK: Yes.

Q. First time ever?

JAN SIEMERINK: Yeah, yeah. 

Q. What prompted you to hit with the other?

JAN SIEMERINK: I don't know. Probably the games, you know. On the Sunday before the
tournament you try to tune your game. You try to find somebody who has that game. He
needed a left-handed player. I needed him. You start practicing a little bit.

Q. What did you learn from hitting with him?

JAN SIEMERINK: That he hits the ball very, very, very hard, and that I have to be very,
very, very careful at the net.

Q. Did you play set?

JAN SIEMERINK: Just a few games. Like I said, just practicing and get your game tuned
before the tournament. Nothing to do with the real match, of course.

Q. How do you handle the serve of Philippoussis?

JAN SIEMERINK: Just try to get it back. I mean, you cannot be too optimistic about it.
Just try to get it back and see what happens.

Q. How did you do against O'Brien? You say you played him once.

JAN SIEMERINK: Yeah, I think I won that match.

Q. This year?

JAN SIEMERINK: No, last year. I think somewhere in Australia, in the beginning of the
year.

Q. Two years ago when you played here, you beat Agassi, and that was the famous music
match. Looking back at that, what are your feelings on that two years later? Do you think
it was much ado about nothing? You were the quiet one in that, he was the one that caused
all the ruckus.

JAN SIEMERINK: For me, it was a good win. I wasn't interested in all the things that
were going on. I just had to win behind my name, and that was more important for me. You
remember this, of course, because you were there also. A lot of people, they don't know,
they just see the results. That's what I care.

Q. In that seventh game, there was a net cord there right at the end of the point. Were
you a little bit lucky there? On the way over you adjusted, it hit the tape and rolled
over.

JAN SIEMERINK: He was lucky also because he hit the tape first. You cannot say if
that's lucky or not. It goes like this so quick, you have to react and do that. There's
nothing to do with placement or something, it's just a reflex. The game was very
important, the whole game. Actually maybe it was the game of the match.

Q. In the United States, people who are left-handed, especially athletes, have a
reputation for being a little bit crazy, a little bit wild. You don't seem to fit into
that mold. Do people look at lefties that way in Europe, too?

JAN SIEMERINK: I know what you're talking about. In Europe it's more that left-handed
people, left-footed people, they're more creative somehow, but I don't know.

Q. Get back to the practice question. Was it on center court here?

JAN SIEMERINK: No. Court 17 or something.

Q. You play serve and volley. Did you do that ever since you really started playing or
was that --

JAN SIEMERINK: Yes, from the beginning I started playing like that. I started in '89.
It's '96 now. The game has changed already in those years. I used to have a big serve, I
remember that. Nowadays if you hit 100 miles an hour serve, it's nothing. The guys are
hitting the ball much harder and much faster. That's why it's so hard to play serve and
volley on first and second because you really need a good second serve. If my second serve
is not working, they'll hit winners all the time. That's tough. That's why you don't see
so many guys doing it at the moment. You know, Edberg is maybe one of the last guys that
does it, but even he is changing a little it about. It doesn't mean that you're not going
to win if you have a game like that; you just have to work harder on it to make it better.
That's why I play a lot of doubles also because in doubles you have to play serve and
volley also. You can work on your returns. That's actually two important things in a
doubles match, also important for my singles, so that's why I play a lot of it.

Q. Do you try purposely to keep yourself in control on the court? You seem real calm,
doesn't seem like you let your opponent know if you're feeling flustered. Certainly Wayne
Ferreira expresses himself.

JAN SIEMERINK: It all depends on the guys you're playing also. I've played Wayne
before. I beat him twice in three sets also. He always got a little bit frustrated. When
you go to another match with him, you always think about your last matches against the
guy. You keep in mind that he was the first to get frustrated. You just try to keep it for
yourself if you are, but it doesn't mean that I'm always that quiet, but I have my days
also.

Q. A couple years ago we talked about the Agassi match. He created quite a stir when he
came in and talked about it. You win the match and all the attention goes to him.

JAN SIEMERINK: I had the feeling nobody cares what I said anyway, so I have nothing to
say anyway.

Q. Wayne said one of the things about you is that you have a good week, that's
something, but when you have a bad week, talking about your record.

JAN SIEMERINK: Up and down?

Q. Yes. He said if you have a good week that you can beat anybody, but when you have a
bad week, almost anybody can beat you. Is that something that's frustrating to you?

JAN SIEMERINK: Well, it's not, because if you see my ranking, I've had a steady ranking
now. That's more important, I think. Like I said, it's just the game I play, it's not so
easy to play. If my serve is not going, then I have a very vulnerable game. It happens
that you lose early. If you get to win those matches, then I get more confident, the whole
game is getting better then, then I can beat anybody, I know that.

Q. Did you have trouble keeping the Ferreiras straight today?

JAN SIEMERINK: You think about it. You don't want to lose to somebody you never lost
to, of course.

Q. You had Ferreira for your doubles partner, and Ferreira you were playing singles
against.

JAN SIEMERINK: We had already so many funny things about that. My partner is always the
one who is in the newspaper that they think is Wayne Ferreira. Last week in Cincinnati, we
beat Woodbridge, Woodforde. It could not be Ellis Ferreira, it must be Wayne then.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT