THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 13, 1994
Jan Siemerink
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Actually, just talking about the chances that both of
you had until finally you did something or he failed, basically.

 JAN SIEMERINK:  Well, yeah.  I don't know if he failed.

 Q.  But you both had chances?

 JAN SIEMERINK:  Yeah, two match points in the second set.  Yeah,
I mean, if you mean that is a failure, I don't know, because I
think he had two good serves.  You can have two match points but
he didn't really have a chance to make the point. Yeah, then I
won the second set, because he got angry somehow for some calls
or I don't know.  He lost his temper a little bit.  If Lendl loses
his temper, then something is wrong.  Then you know you have a
chance.  And then, yeah, that was important game at -- well, I
broke him and then I thought in the third set I broke him, I thought
now it is going to be my match because I felt comfortable serving
all the time and normally I have a lot of trouble with my serve
because he returns pretty good.  I tried to hit a lot of kick
serves, get a lot of first serves in.  It worked pretty good and
then, yeah, when it is 5-3, when you can finish the match it is
always a little bit nervous situation and it is normal because
the last couple of weeks I played a lot, but I lost a lot also.
 When you get to a match like this and you can finish him off,
it is normal you get a little bit nervous.  Yeah, it was a tough
one.

 Q.  You had 4 match points at the end of the match.  You squandered
three of them, now your shot hits the net cord and pops up and
he has got a good chance to save the fourth one; what are you
thinking at that point?

 JAN SIEMERINK:  I thought it was--

 Q.  When the ball hits the cord?

 JAN SIEMERINK:  When the --

 Q.  When the ball hits the cord and pops up leaving him a
fairly easy shot.

 JAN SIEMERINK:  Just go to one shot and hopefully he hits it
there.  That is all you can do.  You cannot just stand there and
give up.  When he sees that you are not trying, it is an easy
shot for him.  When he sees you are trying and when he and he
wants to go for that side, that corner, he thinks I have to go
for the other.  It is a little bit timing.  I was lucky he missed
that shot.  He got a little bit nervous, also.  I am happy.

 Q.  In that second set you seemed to just go right by the
matchpoint he had; that he thought he won the match on.  What
did you think of the ball when it landed?

 JAN SIEMERINK:  The ball was out.

 Q.  I mean, was it very close.

 JAN SIEMERINK:  Very close, but the ball was out.  I could see
that.  Yeah, when he got -- he was angry about that shot.  I thought
it was out and I think he saw it was out also, but he knew when
he played me that he doesn't have so many chances, you know, so
he felt, well, if I get a chance, then I have to make it.  So
there was some pressure on him, and then suddenly he lost his
temper, and that was good for me, of course.

 Q.  What do you see different about Ivan now as compared to
maybe a couple of years ago when you might have seen him play?

 JAN SIEMERINK:  Of course, it is a living legend you are playing,
it is logical.  But I played him last year already in Basel. 
I beat him there and then when you beat -- first of all, I have
to say you have a lot of respect for someone like that who achieved
so many Grand Slam wins.  When you play somebody like that, then
you are different on the court, but when you beat him, then you
lose a little bit of respect and then, you know, he is also one
of the players which you can beat him also if you have a good
day.  So that was-- before I went center court, I knew I had beat
him.  We were 1-All.  So it was fifty-fifty match.

 Q.  You say on the disputed matchpoint in the second set,
you said you think he also thought it was out.  Why would he then
argue that it was in?

 JAN SIEMERINK:  Because he knew he got a few, just a little few
chances and then when he is not making it and if we go to a tiebreaker,
then he knows it is 50/50 and he doesn't like that, of course,
because he wants to close out the match 6-3, 6-4, easy win in
the pocket, and then I thought the guy is also just nervous. 
It was like 6-3, 5-4 game. Basically, he was winning, but when
you see that happen, you get a little bit more energy to that,
you know he is nervous also and, yeah, that saves me.

 Q.  Can you recall how the match went last year when you played
him on hardcourt in Basel?

 JAN SIEMERINK:  Yeah, well, it was indoors and court was a little
bit faster.

 Q.  You--

 JAN SIEMERINK:  I played him in Basel the year before, of course,
that was the first time you play a living legend and I lost because
I thought he was better than I was.  Second time I played him
I knew I had a chance and I beat him in two sets. It was close
also, it was 7-5, 7-6.  It is always good to have a win against
an opponent because you know when you go on court you have a good
chance to win.

 Q.  Is there a parallel the way you used to kick serve and
attacking in the second set?

 JAN SIEMERINK:  Well, the parallel was that I played the same
game as today.  Serve and volley on first and second and attack
his second serve, because when you start rallying from the baseline
he gets into a rhythm and he makes you running all the time, and
that is not my strength.  I have to go to the net.  I have to
attack so that is your tactic for the match.

 Q.  You know his backhand passing is gigantic?

 JAN SIEMERINK:  His forehand is pretty good also.  You know he
is going to pass you a few times, but it doesn't matter, you just
put some pressure on the second serve that he has to think about
the second set, his placement and he has to make every passing
shot, and it is not so easy when a guy comes in all the time that
you have to make the passing all the time.  He is going to make
a few and miss a few and you hope that when you have the chance
that he misses.

 Q.  He is going to lose his temper?

 JAN SIEMERINK:  Yeah.

 Q.  You are serving for the match in the third set and you
got a controversial call, the ball either was in the alley or
just hit the line?

 JAN SIEMERINK:  It was 5-3 he was serving.

 Q.  Excuse me.  You know the ball I am talking about right
under the umpire's chair virtually.  It was called out?

 JAN SIEMERINK:  Yeah.

 Q.  You didn't think that ball was out?

 JAN SIEMERINK:  I thought that shot was in.  Then you don't argue
with that because you know it is hard to see anyway, but I really
had the feeling that that ball was out.  But it is hard to see
because he slices it crosscourt.  So the umpire, he is sitting
up like this and he sees the ball going like that, yeah, it can
hit the line or it can't. So the linesman, I thought, should see
that call, but she didn't and, yeah, you know, it is important
point because otherwise it is matchpoint for you.  You don't--
you don't get so many opportunities like that against a guy like
Lendl. I thought that --

 Q.  You say that he is a living legend but the fact is that
he is 34, 35 years old.  Is there any indication that maybe he
is a little bit slower on the court; maybe it is a little bit
easier to jam him up on the serve?

 JAN SIEMERINK:  No doubt that he plays different than when he
was No. 1, of course, but he is still top 20 in the world.  If
you can be top 20 in the world this year, then you are a hell
of a player still.

 Q.  When you say he plays different, would you just elaborate
a little bit on that?

 JAN SIEMERINK:  I didn't play him when he was No. 1 in the world
of course.  The things you see on TV, you know, and I don't think
he can win like all the Grand Slams he did, I don't think he can
do that again.  So that is different.  But still when he is out
on the court he gives 120 percent all the time.  That makes him
still tough to beat.

 Q.  There were times when you seemed very excited about the
opportunity you had, the matchpoints; pumping your fists saying,
"yes," whatever, did this match mean something special
to you?  Was there a special incentive or did you want to just
go on to the next round?

 JAN SIEMERINK:  Of course you try to do that but when you go
on court you always try to win even if you know it is going to
be hard, but you always try to win.  You think about okay, I can
have some fun there on the center court, it is great to play there
and try to win, I mean, it is not like it is a holiday.  It is
your job also, that is what you are here for to play your match;
that is what you practiced for.

 Q.  You seemed maybe more fired up?

 JAN SIEMERINK:  Yeah, well, that is because the last few months
I haven't been playing so well, and I dropped a lot on the rankings.
 It is all important to have a good win, you know, over a top
20 guy.  It doesn't matter if it is a Lendl; just a top 20 guy.
 Helps to get you some confidence back again and that is why I
got so nervous also at the end of the match because now I knew
I had the opportunity to do that.  You don't want to lose that.
 That is maybe-- that is why I was so fired up.

 Q.  You are one of the top doubles-- member of the top doubles
teams in the world.  Does anybody really care about the doubles
except the players?

 JAN SIEMERINK:  I just won the Lipton last year.  We needed it.
 The fact is that people are coming for singles and not for doubles.
 That is a pity because the doubles is a little bit-- a different
game than the singles and it is-- I think it can be even more
exciting than some singles matches. But I think that the doubles
players, I mean, they have a lot of chances to show their skills
and to do well, but the fact is that the people are coming to
see a Lendl and an Agassi to play singles, and they are not coming
to see Siemerink playing doubles.

 Q.  What would you do to sell doubles more to the public?

 JAN SIEMERINK:  That is tough.  I don't know.  I mean, I am not
really only a doubles player.  I am also a singles player.  For
the guys who only play doubles, it is different, of course, because
it is their living; it is their bread, and, yeah, what can I say
about it?  I mean, it is difficult.

 Q.  When did you decide to play with Daniel Vacek?

 JAN SIEMERINK:  We decided at the beginning of this year to play
a lot of tournaments together, because we are not-- when you are
not playing with a regular partner, it is very difficult to do
well, and we decided beginning of the year to play as much as
we can together and then you can grow as a team and it is much
more difficult when you have to play with a different guy all
the time every week, so.

 Q.  Anything else?  Thank you. 


  End of FastScripts....


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT