GREAT AMERICAN INSURANCE ATP CHAMPIONSHIP
August 8, 1997
Jan Siemerink
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MIKI SINGH: First question for Jan Siemerink. 
 
Q. It must be pretty a frustrating (inaudible)?
 
 JAN SIEMERINK: It's never, you know, if you play for three hours and it's a very close
match, of course you're very disappointed with the end result. But there's not much you
can do, you know, if you give a hundred and ten percent that's all you can do. 
 
Q. It seemed like your double faults were coming at especially inopportune times, if
there's ever a great time?
 
 JAN SIEMERINK: Yeah, but, you know, that's part of my game. I'm playing serve and
volley, first and second, and sometimes you have to make some extra risks when you serve.
I mean I cannot serve like easy second serve to his backhand all the time, because then
he's going to pass me all the time. You have to play a little more risky than when you
stay back on your second. Yeah, I know that I hit more double faults than guys who stay
back, but that's parts of my game. 
 
Q. Obviously your not happy about that. But the crowd thought it was a really
interesting match to watch today, was it as interesting to be playing or frustrating?
 
 JAN SIEMERINK: No. Like I said you it's just frustrating that you end up losing. That
is the only thing what you're thinking about at the moment. 
 
Q. There was so many ups and downs in this match. It seemed like the momentum kept
going back and forth. Did you feel yourself gaining momentum and losing momentum as the
match went on?
 
 JAN SIEMERINK: Actually, I thought that most of the points were made. I tried to come
to the net and make the volley finish and he was trying to pass me. So there was not so
many -- I don't think there was so many errors in the match. It was just a matter of
making the point. And if he hits a good shot, then okay, bad luck. Then he hits a good
shot. The way I'm playing, I play with a high risk of course and sometimes you do too
much, and sometimes you get the right feeling about a few points, and then you can make a
break. I mean it's the same for him he came out with some unbelievable returns and passing
shots, also. And yeah, that's how a game is when a serve and volleyer plays a baseliner. 
 
Q. You were really tough on him most of the match. Are you surprised that he stayed
with it here?
 
 JAN SIEMERINK: No. Never surprised. Because Muster you never beat Muster until you make
matchpoint. That's not a surprise for me. He always fight back. But it's the same from
here. I was not going to give up either. That's why it ended up in a tie breaker I think. 
 
Q. Can you talk about your coverage of the lobs. He just kept trying to lob and lob and
it never worked.
 
 JAN SIEMERINK: You know, I was coming in all the time and if he pass me down the line
all the time, I'm going to cover it. Then I'm going to know, okay, he goes down the line.
So the thing for him is to, you know, mix it up very much lob. Go down the line or go
cross or do a lob, but I don't know what he's going to do. So he tries to keep you off
balance also all the time. 
 
Q. Did you feel like you knew a little bit more today what he was going to do? Did you
feel better about it?
 
 JAN SIEMERINK: Sometimes when you hit this certain shot you know that he's not going to
go crosscourt. His only possibility is going down the line or maybe hit a lob. So you cut
out one or two possibility. Sometimes there are more possibilities and then you don't know
where to go. But that's, you know, that's the way how I play. And I thought especially on
his backhand, I thought that he was -- if I came in then he tries to pass me down the
line. And if I came in again on his backhand then he was going cross. He was mixing it up
all the time. It wasn't going it be a down-the-line shot all the time or the lob all the
time. It's tough. The thing is the pace he plays is -- it's unbelievable.  
 
Q. So if he hadn't been playing fast it could have went four or five hours?
 
 JAN SIEMERINK: I've been running a lot today. I had to cover a lot of court. And, yeah,
that's how he plays and that's why he does very well. I and I mean that's not so easy to
win a tournament like Key Biscayne for example, where all the big guys are guys. He's a
good player on hardcourt, too. 
 
Q. (Inaudible.)
 
 JAN SIEMERINK: Actually, he doesn't have to do it. He's a very good tennis player and
he is popular already. But I think he's overdoing it a little bit, because that's not the
way he actually is. But, you know, what can I say, he won today and that's good for him. 
 
Q. (inaudible).
 
 JAN SIEMERINK: Yeah. I think so. I mean he's No. 5 in the world, and he's got good
results in Grand Slams. In Melbourne I think he made it to the semifinals same at the U.S.
Open he made it to the semifinals. Like I said he won Key Biscayne. Those are the biggest
tournaments in the world, and if you can do well at those tournaments then you're a good
hardcourt player. And I think he made semis here last year as well. So he knows how to
play well on this stuff. 
 
Q. His interaction with the crowd, does that bother you at all?
 
 JAN SIEMERINK: No. Not really. Because most the time you're so concentrated in playing
your own tennis. Because I have to do it. If I'm not concentrate, then I have no game. I
have to be ready every point, because I'm thinking a lot and I cannot laid back a little
bit and look what he's doing. It doesn't really interest me at all. Sometimes, I mean, you
see it happening and that's okay. It didn't bother me at all. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT