GREAT AMERICAN INSURANCE ATP CHAMPIONSHIP
August 7, 1997
Jan Siemerink
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Seems like you had sought of hard luck this year with some of the matches that you
almost had. Did you kind of feel like this was a breakthrough for you?

JAN SIEMERINK: Yes, you are right. The rest of the year, the beginning of the year has
been very bad start for me. And, yeah, it has been a hard time also, like you said, I had
a few very close matches and I couldn't win them somehow, you know, and -- I don't know.
Always different circumstances why you are not winning a match. Yeah, when you finally
play a few good matches in a row, I mean, you are very happy that everything comes
together again.

Q. Goran, his style of play, tough opponent?

JAN SIEMERINK: Well, Goran, you never know. I think he doesn't even know what is going
to happen when he goes out there during a match. And, with his big serve that he has, he
is dangerous for everybody. The thing against Goran, you just have to concentrate on your
own service games. I play serve and volley and I don't give him so much rhythm and seems
like he doesn't really like that. When he gets a few serves back and he gets the important
points, then he gets a bit, I don't know, a bit rushy. He wants to hit a quick ace
otherwise he thinks he is in trouble. And, that is what happens on the matchpoint also, I
think -- I mean, I had matchpoint and he was rushing a little bit, couldn't hit the ace
and he was trying to hit ace with the second serve and he missed it. Yeah, that is what he
plays. You never know what to expect.

Q. Talk about playing Thomas and playing lefthanders in general.

JAN SIEMERINK: Yeah, I used to hate it, actually. (laughs).

Q. Which one, playing lefty or --

JAN SIEMERINK: Playing lefty. Normally as a lefty you have the change of serve on the
ad side and against lefty you don't have it because they have the forehand. In the
beginning I have some problems with that, but seems to go better and better now. And it is
nice to play another lefty, you know, you don't have to adjust every match you play then.

Q. Talk about playing Thomas, in particular.

JAN SIEMERINK: Well, I have played him before and I never beat him and he is a very
tough competitor. He never gives up. He fights for every point and of course, he is very
solid from the baseline. So, what I am trying to do tomorrow is to play my own game again,
play serve and volley on first and second. And try to come in as much as I can, you know,
to keep the pressure on him because from the baseline, it is going to be hard for me to
beat him. So, I have to find another way to beat him and I think that is at the net.

Q. He has had such a good year on hard court. Are the players looking at him
differently when they face him on hard court?

JAN SIEMERINK: I guess so. But, his clay court season is not that great this year. And,
you know, maybe he set his mind more on the hard courts than on the clay courts. That is
maybe the difference with last year that he was playing so long on the clay court that he
knew he was going to win and then on the hard court it is a little bit different game, a
little bit faster. Now he seems to be playing better on the hard court than on the clay,
somehow. I don't know how that comes.

Q. Were you serve and volleying on both of his serves today?

JAN SIEMERINK: Yes.

Q. Isn't that kind of hard to do? 

JAN SIEMERINK: Yeah, it is hard to do, but -- yeah, of course. Like you said about
Goran, but I always played first and second serve and volley, that is just my game. So, if
you want to beat a good player you have to play your best tennis and my best tennis is to
play serve and volley on first and second. If it is not good enough, then I have to
improve my second serve. And, that is what you are working on when you are serve and
volley player, serve and volley better and better all the time.

Q. There are so few serve and volleyers left playing on the Tour.

JAN SIEMERINK: Yeah, it is tough to do. Like you said, guys are returning better and
better, and it is harder to play serve and volley; especially on the second serve and, you
know, there are still a few guys who do it and it is not impossible. It is -- like I said,
if you want to do it, you have to improve your serve. You have to improve your volleys
because it is going faster and faster and that is -- that is not something impossible to
do. But you have to keep working on it.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT