DAVIS CUP - NETHERLANDS vs USA
April 6, 1997
Jan Siemerink
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q  You gave us an incredible match and we really appreciate that.  Andre told us where he thought the match turned around in the third set.  Where did you think it turned around for you?

JAN SIEMERINK:  I thought it was the first game of the third set where I -- where I was serving and he had hit one great return and hit a great passing shot.  And, I think I hit a doublefault in that game and then it was the first time he was up in the match.  That is where it changes a little bit.
  

Q  Didn't have to change very much.  It was a very slight change.  But, could you feel the change?

JAN SIEMERINK:  Well, I could feel that he stepped up to another level of playing tennis.  That is what I felt in the match.  There was something he could do and I couldn't.
  

Q  How disappointing is this to have two, two-set leads in two matches and not close them out?

JAN SIEMERINK:  The first one is more disappointing because I got to matchpoint.  When you lose a match, when you have matchpoint, it is obvious that it is very disappointing.  With this one, I can say that I played good tennis again and he changed his level during the match.  He lifted it up a little bit and I couldn't.  That is what made the change in the match and that is why he won it.
  

Q  Do you think the ability of a player to raise their level up at a crucial time is the difference between a champion and just regular players?

JAN SIEMERINK:  So you are calling me a regular player?   Thank you.
  

Q  I don't know what -- how to phrase it.  You are obviously a superb player.

JAN SIEMERINK:  Of course.  These guys have been No. 1 in the world.  Not everybody can be No. 1 in the world.  That is clear.  And, the thing was, against Courier and against Agassi, I started off really well; played some good tennis, but these guys were able to pick up their games after two sets. And, yeah, so you can ask the question if maybe the best of five is tougher for me to win or to lose, then I say, yes. Because guys who have more ability than other guys have more chance to win in the best of five than in the best of 3.
  

Q  Beginning of the fifth set, what advice was your coach giving you?

JAN SIEMERINK:  Keep going.
  

Q  That is it. 

JAN SIEMERINK:  That is it.  And keep thinking about that you have a chance.  So keep coming in.  Keep -- stick to your game plan like you did in the beginning.  And, just fight your as off and see what happens.
  

Q  It is hard to keep coming in with the kind of game you have, where he is passing you like that?

JAN SIEMERINK:  You know, when I have to beat Andre and Jim, I have to come in all the time, all the time.  And, of course, when these guys have the chance to hit 20 passing shots, they are not going to keep missing.  When you play a match, the longer it gets, the more chances they get to get into their rhythm.  And, especially Andre.  I thought in the beginning, maybe first two, three sets, I thought he was passing me crosscourt all the time and then during the match, he start changing that a little bit. That is when, you know, -- that is when you get into trouble because then you don't know where he is going to pass you anymore.  And, obviously, he can do it pretty well.
  

Q  As the match continued it seemed that you got in excellent position to make volleys on numerous points.  But, you missed then.  Did you sort of lose your touch on your volleying, do you think?

JAN SIEMERINK:  I think it was two things.  First of all, it is -- it is not so easy to come in on every point, so your body, of course, it takes some toll.  But, I also thought that Andre was getting some more confidence and he was getting -- was taking the ball a little bit earlier so that I was a little bit later and because I was getting a little bit tired, it looked like that I was late all the time. But, I think it was those two things.  He was starting to play better and I was starting to get a little bit late with certain balls.
  

Q  This was your first time playing against Agassi.  What would you change if you were to play him the next time?

JAN SIEMERINK:  I don't think I would change anything because I thought that the game plan I had was pretty much working.  Only that the level of playing tennis, I thought that I played some good tennis.  But, he lift up his own level a little bit.  And, these guys are able to do that.  I couldn't. So, I would still play the same.
  

Q  You were playing at a top level, I mean, good enough to be No. 1 in the world at certain streaks.  The game is being played from the baseline, but you have proved that a net rusher -- there is room for a net rusher today.  So, do you think that the game is going to change a little bit?   You proved that you can come in against Andre.  Will other people try that sort of thing because it is kind of a cue for them?  You were very successful.

JAN SIEMERINK:  Yeah, maybe.  Maybe it is.  But, it is not something, you know, when you start to playing tennis  somebody is aggressive tennis player or somebody is a baseliner and certain things you can learn, but it doesn't mean that, you know, that if you start playing on my baseline game, then I can play Andre on the baseline; I would never beat him from the baseline however long I practice.  It is the same with who goes to the net.  If you are not grown up with it, then it is hard to do that, especially against the guys nowadays because they are hitting the ball so hard.  And, like you said, every time when I go to the net, I have to hit good balls, otherwise he is passing me.  That is what makes it so tough because every time you go, you have to be concentrate fully, 100% concentrated; otherwise it is suicide.
  

Q  Your loss the other day to Jim was such a tough loss. And so recent too.  Was there like a voice in your mind later on in today's match saying "Uh-oh" or "Here we go again?"

JAN SIEMERINK:  No, not "Uh-oh", I was very sure this morning and I was just happy that my body was able to play tennis and when I was starting in the match I didn't feel anything anymore, so I was completely ready for the match. Then you are in such a focus that you are not thinking about what is going to happen or what happened two days before the match.  You are just focusing on your game and on your tennis. And, that is all that happens.  But, of course, during a five set match, you get certain thoughts about changing strategies or just the state of mind, of course.
  

Q  Were you still sore from Friday?

JAN SIEMERINK:  Yes.
  

Q  What was your state of mind beginning the fifth set?

JAN SIEMERINK:  Well, the last set of the Tie, you know, I just said to myself just give everything you have in your body, you know, everything what is left, throw it in the match.  That is what I tried to do.  And, it wasn't enough.
  

Q  At any point did you think about Friday when you were also up two nothing?

JAN SIEMERINK:  After the match, when I lost it, then I thought about Friday, yeah.  But, not during the match.  Not during the match, no.
  

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT