DAVIS CUP - NETHERLANDS vs USA
April 4, 1997
Jan Siemerink
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q  That is a relative loss.  How disappointed are you? 
 
JAN SIEMERINK:  Well, it was disappointing, you get to matchpoint and you cannot win the match.  That was the disappointing thing about it.  But, for the rest, I thought we played a great match and we both wanted to win very badly and Jim was the lucky one today. 
   

Q  What do you think the key points of the match was aside from not converting the matchpoint?
 
JAN SIEMERINK:  I think that the turning point was, more or less, that I didn't get my first serve in a lot starting in the third set.  The first two sets, I thought I served really well.  I could put Jim under a lot of pressure and, yeah, I didn't have to serve a lot of second serves.  And at the time, you have to serve a lot of second serves; Jim gets into a rhythm with his returns; then he starts getting his game back also on his only service game.  Then I am in trouble. Because I am the one who has to go to the net; who has to take the initiative all the time.  And, when Jim is getting into his game, he is putting me under pressure and then the game changes around a little bit. 
   

Q  Were you surprised he was able to lob so well considering the windy conditions?
 
JAN SIEMERINK:  Well, it is obvious that Jim is in quite a good shape.  I has been playing well the beginning of the year.  He did well in the Lipton last week and he is confident, you know, and that is something I couldn't have because I didn't win so many matches this year.  So, actually, I wasn't really, you know, thinking about or looking at his game.  It is, more or less, my own game, and if I don't give him any rhythm, then I am in good shape.  And, that is what I thought happened in the beginning.  He miss-hit a few balls and he just doesn't like it.  He wants to hit a lot of balls; then he gets better. 
   

Q  When you did have the matchpoint looked like you didn't make a good swing at that.  You hit a forehand, right?
 
JAN SIEMERINK:  That is the right judgment, yeah.  Yeah, I was just thinking about it too much, I guess, because it is was just a matter of, you know, putting the ball back in; then I am fine.  He has to make the point.  If he couldn't get his first serve in, then I would attack him on the second serve like I did the whole match.  But, that -- I was just thinking about it too much about not making a mistake and when you start thinking about not making mistakes, then you do  make mistakes. 
   

Q  Every player, no matter how good, goes through major disappointments.  How does this loss compare with others in your career?  Is this more disappointing than some of the others?
 
JAN SIEMERINK:  Well, in a way it is because I got two matchpoints, like I said.  But, actually, especially in the beginning of the year, I am playing -- I am not playing so well.  So, I couldn't have any confidence into winning this match, but I played well.  That, you know, somehow even if I lose, it satisfies me a little bit because I played better than the last couple of months. 
   

Q  How do you go about now preparing for the reverse singles?
 
JAN SIEMERINK:  Well, first of all, I hope that we win the doubles, of course.  And, then I just try to get physically ready for the next match.  If I play like this, I have a chance against Andre also.  Then we will see what happens. 
   

Q  You guys had a fabulous comeback against Romania. What did Stan and the rest of the guys -- what were they saying in the locker room?
 
JAN SIEMERINK:  After my loss, you mean? 
   

Q  Yes.
 
JAN SIEMERINK:  You know, the only thing they said it is bad luck and you tried everything.  You played well.  You fought well.  It was just not meant to be.  That is the only thing you can say as long as you do 100% your best, that is what I did.  And, if you lose against a player like Jim Courier who is a former No. 1 in the world, then these things can happen. 
   

Q  Having come back so recently against Romania from being down Love-2, do you think that will help you for the rest of the Tie here?
 
JAN SIEMERINK:  It will help us mentally a little bit because we know it is possible.  But, Romania, of course, is a different country than USA, with different players, so it is going to be very, very difficult for us now. 
   

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT