BCS NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP GAME: AUBURN v OREGON
January 5, 2011
Brandon Bair
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   BRANDON BAIR: We came together as a team and said, Hey, we're here to win a national championship. We are not here for any other reason. There is no point in us going.   
 We are getting our rest. It is just a different culture because the guys want to do whatever it takes to be successful, not as much to do those things that used to be a tradition.  
  
  Q. Why did the culture change?   
 BRANDON BAIR: We got a new coach ing staff in. It is a complete change. Kelly brings something to the table we never had, his energy and desire to do good.   
 The biggest thing is he wants us to excel whether it is in football or not. That's where the whole wind is at the end of the day.   
 That was here before but he brought it home, the fact that we need to make the most of every opportunity we are given every day. That's just changed everybody's mind-set.  
  
  Q. Kelly didn't come up the traditional way. He has worked his way up. Does that color who he is?   
 BRANDON BAIR: He really doesn't talk about himself very much. And that's kind of a neat thing for us as players because he is more focused on what's best for us, not where he has been and what he has accomplished or how hard it took him to get here, the old stories we hear from our parents, walking in snow uphill both ways. Whatever.  
 He is more worried about how we can benefit from the opportunities.  
  
  Q. What's the key to this team's defensive dominance in the second half? What changes?   
 BRANDON BAIR: Well, it is a pretty neat thing, we don't come out any harder in the second half than we do the first half. It might look like it.   
 In reality, the thing that's really made this defense successful is how we're diligent at what we do. We start off the game and bad things are going to happen, good things are going to happen.   
 But we are consistent in a way that we perform every down coming in playing as hard as we can and continue to play that way all the way to the end of the game. There is no let-up. If your team is consistent through the end, eventually something will give.  
 That's what we had to do as a defense. It has been a neat experience to see that.   
  
  Q. How did you make it -- what did Coach say to you?  
 BRANDON BAIR: In reality, Coach says, You are caught in the act of being yourself. All our halftime speeches are, just get out there and keep playing and doing what you have been doing. Obviously eliminate stupid mistakes, but that's the biggest thing. And we have done it.  
  
  Q. What's your take on -- the season has gone on. As you went through the first couple games that happened, maybe the next time you come out --  
BRANDON BAIR: This is with everything that Coach Kelly and all the coaches have really brought forward to us, is it is one thing for a COACH to preach and say something and try to get the team to do something and then there's no results.   
 But everything the coaches have asked us to do when we stepped out on the field and done it, we have been successful. That's one of the biggest things about Coach getting a team to buy in is if he has really asked you to do something and you are successful, it is a lot easier to get the guys on board and keep moving forward.   
 That's really what it has been as the year has gone on, everything Coach has asked to us do has worked.   
  
  Q. What's your take on the offensive line?   
 BRANDON BAIR: Their offensive line for me, they are another offensive line. They got some great guys out there. We got to make sure we get our hands on them, and we really play hard.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT