AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: MARINERS v YANKEES
October 17, 2000
Stan Javier
Mark McLemore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Mark, Lou came in and said he was surprised no one was talking about the wild-card series; that everyone was talking about Subway Series.  What's your reaction to that? 
 
MARK McLEMORE:  I guess you kind of expect that.  That would be a big thing for New York, so you just expect that.  I don't really listen to too much of anything.  
 

Q.  This is the third straight day you guys have not been able to have formal batting practice, is there anything missing at this point in the season? 
 
MARK McLEMORE:  I don't think so.  We'll be able to go out to the cage.  Other than just running around on the field, looking at everybody in the stands and throwing balls into the seats, no, I don't think so.  
 
STAN JAVIER:  As soon as the game starts, you just be ready.  
 

Q.  I'd like to ask both players, Lou Piniella was talking almost like he was staying good-bye to Seattle, do you get that sense? 
 
STAN JAVIER:  Well, I have no comment on that.  
 
MARK McLEMORE:  I have no idea.  I didn't hear his comments, and at this point, we're not really focusing on that. What we are focusing on is going out and facing El Duque tonight. 
 

Q.  Your father, Julian, played against the Yankees.  Have you talked to him about his experience here? 
 
STAN JAVIER:  A little bit.  A little bit.  We just talk about the game, about the series, how nice it is to be here.  We just talk baseball.  
 

Q.  Stan, I'd like to give you a chance to take a swing at the question Mark had, and that is the whole city is buzzing about the Subway Series now.  Do you guys take exception to that?
 
STAN JAVIER:  I think, you know, it is very exciting.  I was very honored to play in the Bay Bridge series in 1989 and I know how excited the city can be.  But, there is still a lot of baseball left. 
 

Q.  For both players, Lou was saying that before Game 5, he said to just relax and play ball and you all went out and hit the ball.  How much did that game relax the team?  What is the attitude now? 
 
MARK McLEMORE:  Obviously, I think we've been relaxed all year long.  I don't think there's ever been a situation where we've been tense or tight.  I think for me it makes us do more than we do, especially with that ballclub.  We have a lot of great ballplayers on this team.  We know what to do, when to do it; it doesn't always get done, but we know how to prepare ourselves.  I don't think anybody gets tense or nervous right now.  I think we've approached it right.  
 
STAN JAVIER:  You just have to feel very happy that you're here and just take one game at a time.  Every time you win, and especially in a short series, it is a big plus.  We have no room for error right now, but you just have to enjoy and play your best game and hope it is good enough.  
 

Q.  Lou has talked about how he has mellowed over the last couple of years.  For either player, did you get a different manager than you expected when you came here? 
 
MARK McLEMORE:  He has, huh?  (Laughter.) No, Lou has always been a fiery manager, watching him from the other side all these years, he has always been the type of manager that I wanted to play for.  I don't think he has lost any fire.  He may channel it in different directions or in different ways, but I don't think he has lost any fire at all. 
 
STAN JAVIER:  Same thing.  I've played with Lou  -- I always love and enjoy watching Lou manage, and he has been great.  I've had a lot of great memories when I was a rookie, and my first year.  Lou is great.  He has been great and he has done a tremendous job.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT