AL DIVISION SERIES: TWINS VS YANKEES
October 3, 2019
CC Sabathia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  CC, Aaron mentioned that you had a cortisone shot in your shoulder. How long has the shoulder been bothering you, and were you surprised the way it did not bounce back the way you wanted it to?  
CC SABATHIA: Yeah, I guess I was surprised the way it didn't bounce back. It's been something that we've been trying to deal with the past couple months. Thought that we had a pretty good handle on it. I threw in that game in Tampa, and it felt pretty good, but I woke up a couple days later, and it was pretty sore. So we got the shot.   
Then I threw in the sim game and thought it would feel a little better, and it just didn't bounce back like I thought it would.   
 Q.  Aaron said that you're going to continue to work in hopes of being active if they advance. Is that something that you have your eyes on? Are you confident that it feels at a point now where you might be able to do that?  
CC SABATHIA: Yeah. Just every day, just trying to get better. I do feel like the longer we go, it's a better chance that I can get back out there. Yeah, we're going to keep working, keep doing things in the training room to try to get back out there.   
 Q.  How tough is it just not to be on the roster?  
CC SABATHIA: Obviously, you guys know me. It's tough, obviously, being here and not being able to participate in playoffs; it's rough. I didn't want to put the team in jeopardy. I want the best opportunity for this team to win a championship. I feel like we have a good opportunity. I didn't want to be selfish and go out there hurt and put the team in a bad spot.   
 Q.  CC, you're well-recognized for being such a leader inside that clubhouse. What will you be doing behind the scenes inside this ALDS now that you're not going to be an active player?  
CC SABATHIA: Just rooting, cheering, being there for the guys. Just try to be there as much as possible, whatever role I can be in, and obviously still working to try to get back out there myself.   
 Q.  CC, you've been in the position that James Paxton will be in tomorrow. How confident are you with him going out there as your Game 1 starter?  
CC SABATHIA: I'm excited for him to get a chance to start Game 1. Really just our whole rotation. I know everybody has made a lot about our pitching, but I'm excited to see our guys perform; Pax, Masa. I'm really excited to see Sevy pitch. We haven't seen him all year, so getting a chance to see him in the playoffs is going to be exciting so I'm really looking forward to that.   
 Q.  Paxton, specifically, what did you see in him?  
CC SABATHIA: Obviously, him running off ten in a row, he's got the stuff. We knew that. Getting comfortable here as a Yankee takes you a minute. So I'm excited for him tomorrow. I think he'll be good for us.   
 Q.  Paxton mentioned that he relied on some veterans on the team to help him prepare for his first playoff appearance. Did you have any advice for him back in the clubhouse?  
CC SABATHIA: Yeah, we just talked about all those starts throughout the season. First time against Boston. First start here. They're all big starts, and they're equal to playoff starts. He has the experience. He's just got to go out and perform tomorrow.   
 Q.  CC, is there any way to actually describe what the year's been like for you, between all the celebrations and all the shots of different kinds, what you've been feeling?  
CC SABATHIA: It's been fun. It's been a good year. Obviously, everything I had to do to stay on the field with cortisone shots and different things like that, it's tough, but to be here with these guys and be in a position to hopefully win a championship is why I came back. I knew what I was in store for coming back, just with my knee and my shoulder and stuff. Yeah, but having a chance to win the division, having a chance to play -- be in the playoffs and hopefully win a championship is why I came back.   
 Q.  You're comfortable physically with the role that you'll be asked to fill once the shoulder is better?  
CC SABATHIA: Any role, for sure. That's no problem. I think, when you're trying to win the championship, you've got to check the egos at the door and just go out and try to get outs.   
 Q.  We've talked so much about your knee. Is it just kind of weird that it's the shoulder that's keeping you out at this point in the season with this much on the line?  
CC SABATHIA: Yeah, it is. It's something that I never dealt with, obviously, never having arm problems. So just trying to work through it, do things in the training room to try to get back out there and play some catch and see how it feels.   
 Q.  CC, we all know that you've announced that this is your last season. Can you not -- you know, the fact that this could be the end of your career, do you see it that way, or are you just looking forward to the ALCS?  
CC SABATHIA: I'm just looking forward to having a chance to participate in the playoffs, play in the playoffs, hopefully get healthy enough and just be around here for the playoffs. I'm not really focused on it being my last time or whatever, just trying to focus on winning the championship.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT