AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: YANKEES VS ASTROS
October 20, 2017
CC Sabathia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Houston - 7, New York - 1
Q. What does it mean to you and how much do you relish being out there for Game 7 tomorrow?
CC SABATHIA: It's going to be exciting tomorrow, to be able to have the opportunity to go to the World Series, one game.  I'm excited.
Q. You guys have had four elimination games, your young guys have responded well.  What have you liked most about the way your team plays in these elimination games?
CC SABATHIA: Just the way we can turn the page.  It's something that these guys have a gift to do.  It's hard to do, especially for a young team.  And they seem to do that every day.
We'll come out tomorrow and play a great game and win tomorrow.
Q. You had two great starts against the Indians and now second straight against the Astros.  What are the challenges and are there any benefits to going two straight?
CC SABATHIA: This is a great team, tough lineup.  It's going to be a battle tomorrow.  Just try to come out, pound the strike zone, be aggressive, and hopefully get some swings early in the count and allows me to pitch deep into the game, I guess.
Q. You and Justin Verlander have been doing this for a long time at a high level in this League.  What's it like from the other side watching him to do this against you guys twice and to pitch as well as you can in the postseason?
CC SABATHIA: He's pitched well, unfortunately for us.  But it's up to us tomorrow to try to win a game and advance to the next round.  He's pitched great and you have to give him all the credit.
Q. Over the last couple of years was there ever a point where you didn't think a night like tomorrow was going to be possible for you because of the things you went through?
CC SABATHIA: Yeah.  You never take these opportunities for advantage.  That's why it's special to pitch and play in October.
It's been a tough road, not being in the playoffs for a long time, and going through my personal things.  It will feel good to get out there tomorrow and have an opportunity to try to pitch this team to the World Series.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT