AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: YANKEES VS ASTROS
October 16, 2017
CC Sabathia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
New York - 8, Houston - 1   
 Q.  What did you think of Aaron's catch?  
CC SABATHIA: That was just a great play.  Off the bat, here with the short right field I didn't know what the result was going to be, but for him to go up and go all out and make that catch was unbelievable.   
 Q.  The Correa bat with the bases loaded, could you walk us through that.  
CC SABATHIA: I was trying to make a pitch.  He likes to get his hands extended.  I was trying to get something in on him and made a good enough pitch where he popped it up to short.   
 Q.  Your last batter Reddick, threw his helmet down, did you say something to him after?  
CC SABATHIA: That was just me being me, man (laughter).   
 Q.  This is your 22nd postseason start.  How are you able to channel that experience into what you take out there, and does it help you remain calm?  
CC SABATHIA: It definitely helps me remain calm.  These guys making home runs helps me calm down, too.   
Being home you feel comfortable driving to the ballpark, sleeping in your own bed.  I wanted to come out and try to give it everything I could to throw strikes and have a good performance.   
 Q.  Joe came out to talk to you and seemed like you might have said something to him.  
CC SABATHIA: I just said I wanted to get this guy.  I was feeling pretty good.  And I just wanted to make that last pitch and try to save as many people in the bullpen as possible.  We know that's the strength of our team.  As starters you want to go as long as possible and get those guys as much rest as possible.   
 Q.  Why do you think you guys play so much better, especially this year, in this ballpark?  
CC SABATHIA: Just the energy, the fans.  They bring it every night to playoffs, and you can feed off that.  It's been a lot of fun to watch what they've been doing, and the way we can kind of feed off their energy.   
 Q.  It's always important to get runs early, obviously, but being down 2-0 in the series, was it that much more critical to get that early lead?  
CC SABATHIA: It's always critical in the playoffs just to try to get a lead and hold it there.  Frazier hit the home run early, I just wanted to try to get back in the dugout as quick as possible and let these guys score some more runs.   
 Q.  You were talking about having fun playing here.  But what about you personally, this run you've been on has been pretty impressive.  Are you having fun?  
CC SABATHIA: I'm having a lot of fun.  Getting a chance to play with Fraz, we talk on the field a lot, just hanging out having fun just keeps you loose.  Castro and Didi been playing some great defense behind me, Sanchez, Birdy, has been calling great games.  I'm just having fun and enjoying the ride.   
 Q.  Especially for you tonight, how do you feel?  
CC SABATHIA: It feels good.  Obviously you want to go out and have a good performance in the playoffs and give us a chance to get back in the series.  Hopefully we did that tonight.  Come out tomorrow and swing the bats and score some more runs.   
 Q.  Those guys keep you loose.  How do you keep everybody else loose?  Seems like you have an influence on everybody on the team.  
CC SABATHIA: I try not to change, be the same every day.  That's hard to do during baseball season, but I feel like I can do a good job of that, just coming in the same energy every day, feeling good, upbeat, and just feed off of that.   
 Q.  This is the first scoreless outing you've had in the postseason.  What does it mean to you?  
CC SABATHIA: It's weird.  Me being 37, smoke and mirrors, getting a shutout.  But, yeah, I mean, like I said, just keep riding it, trying to throw strikes and being aggressive.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT