AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: YANKEES VS ASTROS
October 15, 2017
CC Sabathia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  As a team, what can you guys take from the last series, being down 0-2 from this?  
CC SABATHIA: Just the fact that we don't give up.  We're going to fight until the end.  It's a good team we're playing, but I feel like we've been right there in both games.  It can be 2-0 and then 2-1.  We're right there.  So a couple things go our way, we could easily be up 2-0.   
 Q.  What's the mood with the team?  You guys were down 0-2 the last series.  Any difference from that last stage?  
CC SABATHIA: No, this team the mood never changes.  We're always just playing baseball, going out one day at time, trying to win the baseball game.   
After the game yesterday wasn't any different than it always is, it's just how we've been.  I look for us to come out tomorrow and play well.   
 Q.  With the bullpen that you have, I know you want to stay in the game as long as you can, but is it a comfort that you can go as hard as you can for maybe a shorter time and know that the bullpen is backing you up?  
CC SABATHIA: Yeah, our bullpen is unbelievable, top to bottom.  We have I think the best in the game.  So just gives you confidence to go out and do whatever you can and leave it all out there and let those guys come up and clean up the mess.   
 Q.  What's your approach, having no more margin of error, does that affect you at all?  
CC SABATHIA: No, just go out and try to be aggressive in the strike zone, throw strikes and let them swing early in the count and get deeper in the game.  Nothing different than I always do.   
 Q.  Your record after Yankee losses this year, is it happenstance or do you think there's any different mindset you take to the mound?  
CC SABATHIA: No, it's just one of those stats of the year.  It is what it is.  I don't really think different after a win or a loss.  Just one of those things.   
 Q.  Are you more aggressive with a guy that's been hot?  
CC SABATHIA: No, you've just got to go out and try to make pitches on him.  Try to make him uncomfortable at the plate.  Obviously he's swinging the bat really well right now.  You've got to make pitches in and out and try to keep him off balance.   
 Q.  What did you think of what Verlander did yesterday?  
CC SABATHIA: I thought he pitched well.  Obviously he threw a complete game.  But I thought we had our opportunities.  We're just one swing away from taking the lead right there.   
I'll go out and do my thing and let the bullpen clean up my mess.   
 Q.  You've got a lot of young guys on this team that are going through this thing for the first time.  You being a veteran and mentor in the clubhouse, have you noticed anything different about how they approach the game, whether you see any nerves and if so, do you take it upon yourself to go talk with them?  
CC SABATHIA: Honestly, no.  Like I said, after the game yesterday, this team has been exactly the same as it's been all year, which is even keel.  Up, down, whatever, we're always the same.  We pick each other up, enjoying each others' company.  It's no different yesterday.  It's been like that the whole playoff round, too.   
These young kids are mature, you don't have to say much to them.  We just go out and stay the course, and try to win the ballgame.   
 Q.  How rare is it for young guys who have never gone through this before to have that approach?  
CC SABATHIA: I don't know if it's maturity or just being dumb, they don't know, you know?  We're all the same.  The team is really good at doing that for a young team, yeah.  I don't know what it is.   
 Q.  It's been five years since you've been pitching in games this late in the season.  Looking back, did you ever doubt that you'd get back to games like this, especially with all the injuries?  Is this more fun than maybe ten years ago for you?  
CC SABATHIA: It's always fun to have a chance to pitch in the playoffs and have the opportunity to win a championship.  I don't really think about it, that it had been so long.  I didn't think about whether I'd be back or not, I just wanted to be healthy enough to go out and pitch.  This for me is a bonus, being able to pitch in the playoffs.   
I missed it, but I didn't really think about it.   
 Q.  Gary took a lot of the blame after the game last night for not making that play.  Do you talk to him or do you worry about him taking any of that into tomorrow's game, trying to make up for it or being distracted by what happened?  
CC SABATHIA: No, I think he'll be fine.   
 Q.  What makes you confident that he's able to put that behind?  
CC SABATHIA: We just talked about that.  These kids, they do a good job of just turning the page.  Just a mature team at a young age.  I think we'll be fine.   
 Q.  What's your impression of Altuve who can connect on so many pitches outside the zone?  
CC SABATHIA: Just try to make that just the same thing with Correa, move the ball in and out, just try to keep him off balance and make the pitches and get him to swing early in the count.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT