U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 15, 2020
Aman Gupta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. You made an unbelievable comeback, 4-down in this match and get it to all-square, and kind of disappointing finish.
 AMAN GUPTA:   Yeah, I mean, I knew going in Ty was going to be a tough competitor.  Doesn't make a lot of mistakes.  I mean, he rolls it well, so I knew it was going to be a good day.  Didn't quite hit it as well as I wanted to all day, but I mean, I put up as good of a fight as I could on the back nine.
 Had a good up-and-down on 13, and good up-and-down on 14 and good save on 15.  And then that birdie out of the bunker on 16; that shot out of the bunker is the shot of the week.
 17 I got the win again, squared it up and I was in the driver's seat.
 18, flared it in the bunker and I'm still completely shocked about what happened.  I mean, I hit both shots, hit the lip and came back in.  I hit them the way I wanted to, and I thought -- Coach was even telling me I could hit a 4- or 5-iron from there because the lip wasn't that high.  I hit 8-iron the first time and a pitching wedge the second time.  Both of them hit the lip.  So really disappointing.
 But I mean, still, a great week and a lot to build on.
 Q. When he opened the door for you on 15 with that 6, did you feel like, okay, maybe I've got a shot at this?
 AMAN GUPTA:   Yeah.  I mean, I knew going in -- on 12 when I made that par putt to halve the hole, I knew down the stretch there's no one better than me.  If you look at the scores from all the matches down the stretch, I've won the most holes.
 So I knew that I was going to put up a fight coming in if I just kept playing my game, and sure enough, I did.  Squared up being 4-down through 12 holes, I felt like I did everything I could.  Just disappointed to not win.
 Q. What a wonderful week for you.  What do you take going forward?  Your ranking will go way up, and going into the fall season and next year.
 AMAN GUPTA:   Just a lot of confidence.  I've known and my coach has known for a while that I was good enough to do this.  I'm just going to take a lot of confidence and know that I'm one of the best players in the world and it's time to start playing like it.
 Q. You have a couple exemptions, so you'll have a chance to come back here and improve on what you did this week.
 AMAN GUPTA:   Yes, sir, that's the plan.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT