U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2020
Aman Gupta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Quite a difference a week makes; you didn't expect to be anywhere close --
AMAN GUPTA:   Yeah, I was talking to coaches all summer, been playing good, I just couldn't quite figure out what it was.  I finished seventh at Palmetto and 13th at the Southern, and played good, just couldn't put it together the last two events.  I was just so frustrated at the Western at Sunnehanna that I couldn't put it together, so I got a week off and that week made all the difference for me.  I talked to my coach and my dad and my mom and just realized I just needed to chill out a little bit and just go play, and whatever happens happens.  That's the best attitude I've had all week.  Just play my game, and if I lose, I lose.  It seemed to be working pretty well this week.
Q. Started out down two holes.  What's going through your head at that point and just getting back into it?
AMAN GUPTA:   Yeah, I kind of fell asleep on the first hole and knocked a 25-footer 10 feet by, kind of gave him the hole.  He had a really good shot in two and made birdie, so being 2-down through two, I was a little flustered, but nothing crazy.  I was just like, there's 16 holes left, anything can happen, and I had a gimme for birdie on the next and almost made like a 70-footer on 5 and tied the match, and then from there it was pretty -- just kept wearing him out, hitting the green, giving myself a birdie look, and it was good.
Q. What about the conditions out there this morning versus afternoon?
AMAN GUPTA:   Oh, I mean, this morning the wind hardly blew at all until the last few holes and it maybe picked up 10, 15.  It was blowing 25 to 30 since the first tee, and then we got by the water and it was almost 35.  So I mean, yeah, it played way harder this afternoon.  You're just trying to hit the green, and then even putting in general was just difficult.  Even if you have a four- or five-footer, it could break a foot just if you're putting against the wind or cross wind.  So yeah, it was really difficult this afternoon.
Q. Thinking about tomorrow, what's your -- how are you feeling right now?  You're excited I'm sure.
AMAN GUPTA:   Yeah, I'm excited to play tomorrow.  My game feels really good still.  Just my mindset, I'm just going to go play my game tomorrow, and whatever I got is what I got.  If I lose, I lose, but hopefully I can win.  I'm just going to play my game.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT