U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2017
Aman Gupta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Considering what happened last year to you, not making Match Play, are you surprised to be in the quarterfinals?  
AMAN GUPTA: Not really.  I've made a lot of changes in my game since then.  I've been playing good golf for a while, so I wasn't really surprised I made it into Match Play.  I knew once I put up good scores in stroke play that I was going to have a run at it in Match Play.   
 Q.  What kind of changes did you make that your game has improved?  
AMAN GUPTA: A little bit was swing.  Changed coaches, and he's been really beneficial.  But I think the biggest thing was course management and changed how I go about tee shots and more how I approach greens.  That's been a huge difference in eliminating a lot of stupid bogeys and allowing those birdies to be more beneficial.   
 Q.  Today's match, you got up on them in the first seven holes.  Tell me about the birdie on the sixth hole?  
AMAN GUPTA: He hit a good 3-wood up there, and we weren't sure he was on the green or not, but it was just short.  Most likely he was going to make birdie.  I just tried to hit a little cut and kind of let the wind feed it so I could take some distance off the driver.  Kind of just cut it too much and it was in the rough over there.   
It's really thick rough.  This rough is brutal.  I just kind of hacked it up there to about 15 feet or so, and just didn't really get through it.  But I wasn't too upset with it since the lie and everything.  Just hit a really good putt and made it, and he missed his.   
 Q.  On 7, you went 2-up with the par?  
AMAN GUPTA: Yeah, he kind of -- we both blocked our drives, but his kind of got in that bunker and he laid up short of the green.  And I hit mine right at the flag.  I thought it was close, but it just rolled over the back into the rough.  He hit his wedge shot, and it was a couple feet from being really good.  It ended up like 20 feet.  He two-putted and I chipped mine like a foot or two and just made par.   
 Q.  Kind of went back and forth, and you made a birdie again at 12 to stay two 2-up again.  
AMAN GUPTA: Yeah, that was a really good birdie.  I wasn't trying to make birdie, I just hit it out there, and the wind was howling hard to the left.  I tried honestly with what that pin was.  But if it gets right of the pin, you're making double or triple.   
So I just kind of go 30 feet left and I pushed it a little bit, and the wind kind of helped it get over there right at the flag.  I had 15 feet or so, and another really good putt.   
 Q.  What did you hit in there?  
AMAN GUPTA: It was a choke-down 5.   
 Q.  Then on 17, you won with a par?  
AMAN GUPTA: I wasn't expecting it, but he kind of fanned one out into the wind out left and just kept pushing it left into the water.  I knew just played the shot you originally hit just couple feet right of the pin.  I did that, the wind kind of brought it back in.  I putted to four feet and he conceded.   
 Q.  What did you hit off the tee there?  
AMAN GUPTA: It was like 202.  I think I hit choke-down 6.  It was a little long, but it did what I needed it to do.   
 Q.  Knowing the course management that you have now, do you feel that you have everything you need to win this?  
AMAN GUPTA: Yeah, everything's there.  I'm putting it well.  I didn't hit it as well in the morning match, and I made a little adjustment on the range, and that helped me hit it better.  If I keep sticking to my lines and my putting and stick to my course management, I have a great chance.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT