WNBA FINALS: DREAM v LYNX
October 5, 2011
Sancho Lyttle
Angel McCoughtry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Minnesota: 101
  Atlanta: 95

 THE MODERATOR: Sancho Lyttle and Angel McCoughtry, thank you. We will begin with questions. 

 Q. Angel, 38 points tonight, a WNBA Finals record, tell me about your performance out there. 
 ANGEL McCOUGHTRY: It's just 38 points. I don't care about that. I want to win a ring. 

 Q. Angel, there was tremendous hostility in the crowd toward you. You could hear it being blown out, even when you were shooting from the foul line. Do you hear that? Does it bother you, motivate you? 
 ANGEL McCOUGHTRY: I love it because, you know, the crowd was quiet, then I'm not doing something right. So the more boo's the better. 

 Q. Sancho, you got to move back into our regular role tonight and Atlanta was doing well physically until the last 5 minutes. How do they adjust to get the series at 2-1? 
 SANCHO LYTTLE: We play our game, came down to the fourth quarter and things didn't go our way. They ended up winning. When we get back to Atlanta, things change, but we still got to play. 

 Q. Angel, what do you think happened in the fourth? 
 SANCHO LYTTLE: You don't answer the question. We don't know --
 ANGEL McCOUGHTRY: Don't y'all want to see us play and battle it out? It should be determined -- not taking nothing from Minnesota; they deserve their win, but I think it should be determined between us and Minnesota and who wins the game. 
 Let us battle it out, let us scratch and claw to the end. It's entertainment, that's what people want to see; that's the way it should be played. 

 Q. Sancho, talk about the difference between game 1 and this Game 2, the difference that de Souza being back made for you. 
 SANCHO LYTTLE: Didn't make no difference, whether she was here or not; we still lost the game. 
 ANGEL McCOUGHTRY: I think it made a difference on the boards; it helped us a lot. Everything was great. We played the way we should play, you know, I just think that the whole game, we need to all -- we just need to play. Let us play, let us battle it out to the end. If we all come out bloody, we all come out bloody. Let us play! 

 Q. What does your team need to do on Friday to turn this around? 
 ANGEL McCOUGHTRY: We are going to be doing the same thing we been doing. I think we played a good game, you know what I mean? 
 Got to find a better way to finish it out, guess we can't -- at the end, maybe try something different. 

 Q. You mentioned battling it out, a more aggressive style tonight getting Maya Moore in foul trouble. How do you perfect that for Game 3? 
 ANGEL McCOUGHTRY: I don't know. Sancho, you can answer that.
 SANCHO LYTTLE: I don't know either, they got in foul trouble, we were worse in foul trouble, so how you can perfect not being in foul trouble? You got to keep your hands to yourself, I guess. 
 ANGEL McCOUGHTRY: It was a good game, I guess, it was a good game until that spurt in the end, changed all of the sudden. We were playing the same way we played the whole game and everything changed, I don't know. That's my opinion. You know what I mean? 
 So we will just figure it out. It's not over yet. 

 Q. If you were to try to find a bright spot in obviously something that's a frustrating situation, one of the things that you said Sunday night that you wanted to try to do as a leader on this team was to get your fellow players more involved. You not only increased your own scoring but the scoring on the rest of the your team went up as well, so do you feel that your team is doing a better job of getting multiple players involved? 
 ANGEL McCOUGHTRY: You know, Bill Russell always said the reason he won a lot of championships is because he made his teammates happy, and that's what he did. I know what I'm going to do, but if my teammates are happy, that makes us whole, you know what I mean? As a leader, that's what I've been working on. Everybody needs to be happy, got to share the ball, little things like that. 
 THE MODERATOR: Angel and Sancho, thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT