MASTERS TOURNAMENT
November 9, 2020
Francisco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. This week there's a lot of talk about the quiet and the different situations here, and you have several years of experience here in Augusta now with the roars and the patrons and everything, especially when you were in the thick of it last year. So what's the contrast? How are things going to work this week, and how do you feel about it? 
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, I mean, obviously, it's very early, but, yeah, we're used to coming here on Monday already and seeing lots of people. So it looks different already. I don't know. We'll have to see how everyone adapts to the differing conditions. It's hard not to have the fans around, but it's amazing to have the opportunity to be back here for us as players. 
So, yeah, hopefully, next year we'll be able to have the fans back, but for this year we'll have to obviously deal with this. It's an incredible honor and privilege to be back anyway.

Q. Can you tell us a bit about from the last Masters, since the last Masters to now, there's been a lot of changes. Things have been‑‑ in your golf and your life. Can you describe a little bit what the process was until now. 
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, it seems much longer than a year and a half ago. Obviously, the pandemic made a strange year for everyone, for a lot of people. But for me, for us as a family, we moved countries. We moved continents. Yeah, when the pandemic hit, earlier this year, obviously, we were in lockdown for a while, and it was different for me to take a break. I've been doing this for 15, 16 years, and I know you just don't stop. You never stop. It's just season after season. 
So I felt, for me personally, obviously, I could turn it into something of an advantage, and now we're obviously here in the states and getting settled as a family. 
But, yeah, it's nice to be back. Obviously, last year wasn't the ending I was looking for, but it was still a very good week and something that I'm very proud of to have been in that position in Augusta. Hopefully, this week, it will bring some sort of closure. It's been kind of hanging around, and it's been a long time, like you said, since last year. It's nice to be here, and obviously, I'll do my best, as I always try to do. 

Q. You're starting to play better recently, I mean, in the last tournament. Also, like you say, do you go out now and play your practice round and look at 15 and think about it and say, okay, this is what I'm going to do now? 
FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Yeah, it's nice to be here. Like, I said, I think I was missing a little bit of closure, having to wait to come back. Obviously, I don't know how this year‑‑ we thought it might go better. It might go worse. But at least, playing the course again will help me process from last time what happened last year. 
My game, basically, feels like I'm never happy this season. So I can't say I'm playing better because I've only played really six rounds in the last seven or eight months. But, yeah, last week in Houston, I played well. I think I'm further ahead than I thought I was going to be at this point. The goal was really to be ready for January 2021. 
Last week I showed that I'm playing well enough. So, yeah, probably raised the expectations a little bit after last week, and we're all competitors. So when we show up on the 1st tee, obviously, you forget what you've been doing for the last year, and you just want to compete. So like I said, I'll try to play my best. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT