CHICAGO FIRE MEDIA CONFERENCE
April 29, 2017
Veljko Paunovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
New York Red Bulls - 2, Chicago Fire - 1   
 Q.  Can you give us general thoughts about the match?  
VELJKO PAUNOVIC: I think we played a great game.  I think we are -- we were close.  We were very close.  We are getting closer, which is very important for us to win points on the road.  I think we played against a great team, and we were capable of not only creating problems to them, but to be a better team during most of the time, especially in the second half.   
But also in the first half we have a lot of opportunities.  We are getting better, and if we keep the level of playing like this, I'm sure that we are going to win a lot of points on the road.   
 Q.  Created a lot of chances tactically, what did you see out there going forward?  
VELJKO PAUNOVIC: I think we did a great, great game plan.  Was working perfectly, the commitment of the guys, which I'm very proud and of very thankful for, for this game that we had, because we show to ourselves that we can play consistently, and yes, we allowed two goals, but we were consistent in our attacking performances and we were creating opportunities.  I'm very happy with our guys.   
So we just have to keep improving, working like this, believing.  Guys obviously are frustrated with the results, but what I felt today, it's different from the past, and that's something that makes me feel very good and very optimistic for the future.   
 Q.  Earlier in the week you emphasized winning the ball and challenges?  
VELJKO PAUNOVIC: I think we won a lot of second balls, which is part of the Red Bulls' game.  We won a lot of transitions.  We were capable of stopping them in the fast attacks, and then counter, also, and then at the end of the game, I think we controlled well.  Especially before we scored the goal, I think we dominated, actually.   
So I think -- I'm very happy with my team but I'm not happy with the result obviously.   
 Q.  What was it that you saw in watching -- what was it that you saw in their defense that you thought you would be able to take advantage of?  Was it just getting along on the pounders?  
VELJKO PAUNOVIC: Can you say that again?   
 Q.  I don't think they conceded at home all year.  What was it you saw in their defense you thought you could take advantage of?  
VELJKO PAUNOVIC: I think we have pace, so it's not only to take advantage what they lack of.  It's also what you can do with what you have.  I think we managed well to, we have a lot of pace in attack.  We have guys score very good on the counter, so we are consistent in keeping their defense exposed and challenged with the deep balls behind their back, and you know, the flanks obviously are the points that we wanted to exploit.   
So we were close.  Again, I think we did well but next time.   
 Q.  Can you talk about the decision to make Dax the captain tonight and maybe any message you had to him returning to this place?  
VELJKO PAUNOVIC: I think it was important for him to start as a captain.  He is one of the captains, so I don't give a big importance to that.  I decide; I'm the coach, I decide who I believe is going to help us in that role for each game.  In the future, it's going to be the same.   
 Q.  Nemanja, how he did today.  
VELJKO PAUNOVIC: Yeah, I think Nemanja did a very good job.  I think he had a lot of opportunities, scored a goal and worked for the team.  We just have to keep working like that.  Like I said, we are capable of playing on this level in the future.  I'm not concerned about winning on the road.   
 Q.  How would you assess Dax's performance today?  
VELJKO PAUNOVIC: I think he impacted the game.  A lot of challenges he won in drills in the middle of the park, but at the end, he assisted on the goal.  It was a consistent play, very characteristic for him.  Winning the ball, winning another one drill after another and then assisting to Nikolic, I think it was great.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT