CHICAGO FIRE MEDIA CONFERENCE
May 18, 2016
Veljko Paunovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








New York Red Bulls - 1, Chicago Fire - 0
VELJKO PAUNOVIC: I think that we did a great game against a very good team.  We deserved more, for sure, and of course I would say that during the game many, many mistakes happened.  But for us, we just want to encourage our guys to keep on working hard and keep the spirit that we had today in the game and keep on believing.
So for us, it's important that we are still building.  We are a team under construction, a team that will continue working hard and believe.  That's where we are and that spirit and identity of being a tough team to win, a team that plays every game until the end.  A team that is getting better in every, every, every game during the season, and it's a long season, again.  We will get there, for sure.
Q. I wanted to ask you, it looked like David Accam took a bit of a knock.  I saw it looked like he got injured.  Is he okay?  Can you give any update?
VELJKO PAUNOVIC: No, he's okay.  So far I spoke to him after the game.  He said he's okay.  Just that he's coming out from the injury and he's taking care of his body.  So treatments are still important part of his recovery in order to be ready for the next game.
Q. Considering another shutout, how do you keep the morale up?
VELJKO PAUNOVIC: Well, telling the truth, because I think we did a great job today.  We had a very good team in front.  We played, we defended well, we created chances, we had opportunities, and that's the spirit that we have to keep.  We just tell the guys, they did great, and we are proud of them and keep on working.  Keep on working.  Next game, next game.  Because there are things that you can improve, like you can always prove that you are improving.  So we tell guys that they are doing good.
Q. How disappointing was it tonight to give away just one shot on goal and obviously have it end up in the back of the net?
VELJKO PAUNOVIC: No, it's a part of the process where we are.  We are, as I said before.  We are a young team, a team under construction still.  But growing and we learn from the lessons like today and we just keep on pushing hard.
Q. Can you talk about David's shot from 35 yards that hits off the cross bar?
VELJKO PAUNOVIC: Yeah, it was fantastic.  It was fantastic.  Our guys, they figured it out how they can take advantage of the space created by moving Rodrigo to the side, and the shot is a piece of art.  It was really a great, great shot.  But the thing is that it would be better if it ended in the net.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT