MAUI JIM MAUI INVITATIONAL
November 21, 2016
Eric Bovaird
Rohndell Goodwin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
North Carolina - 104, Chaminade - 61   
THE MODERATOR: Coach Bovaird is joined by Rohndell Goodwin.   
COACH BOVAIRD: It's pretty obvious to everybody, the size and the strength was the overwhelming factor of the game.  They had 23 offensive rebounds.  And what did we have?  A total of 23 rebounds.  So that was a major factor of the game.  But it doesn't take a coach or a rocket scientist to figure that out.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions for Rohndell.   
 Q.  You seemed to play very aggressively against North Carolina.  You weren't backing down against them.  Talk about what it means to play against a team of this caliber and what mindset you went to the game with.  
ROHNDELL GOODWIN: It wasn't any difference with my mindset.  I always go with the same mindset in every game.  I feel like I can play with anybody.  I just wasn't eligible to go to Division I.  That's why I'm here with Chaminade.  I just go in the same game with the same mindset.  It's no difference every game, I'm trying to do the same thing, trying to win.  So there's no difference.   
 Q.  Rohndell, was there some growing confidence there as you guys were hanging there for the first 10, 12, 13 minutes you're down four points with seven and a half minutes to go first half?  
ROHNDELL GOODWIN: Yes, definitely.  Definitely.  We felt like we could have played with them.  Our guards, but what can you do when you have three 6'11" guys that just outrebounded?   
The first half we had 11 rebounds total to their 10 offensive rebounds.  So that was the big difference of the game.  We got three 6'11" guys, our tallest guy is seven foot, but no offense to Nate, but he barely gets in.   
So there's so much we can do.  But, yes, we felt like we can play.  We was just getting outrebounded.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions for Coach.   
 Q.  Coach, can you talk about that, too?  You're down 33-29 there with 7:20 to go in the first half.  Was there some confidence at that point for you?  
COACH BOVAIRD: Oh, without a doubt.  We executed our game plan from the start.  Coach Odom would have been proud of us.  We were double-teaming in the post, what we've been trying to do for a while.   
And we did a pretty decent job of it.  And our guys were in great defensive position.  In the Division II level, one of the differences is we get 10 scholarships and Division Is get 13.  They come at you in waves and waves, and next thing, you know, more really good players are coming in.   
So, no, you know, I know that offensively if we get going we can play with anybody.  But defensively is where sometimes we struggle.  But we're working on it.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT