ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
March 18, 2015
Suresh Raina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Do you think that in 2007 (Indiscernible) or there is anything you're improving or not improving at all (Indiscernible)?SURESH RAINA: I believe we are not looking to all of those, to be honest.  We're looking at what we have to do tomorrow, and we have done that in our league matches.  We just need to go there and express ourselves, and we have done well in batting, bowling and fielding, and now we have three games to go. You can't take lightly Bangladesh.  They have done well against India, especially in ICC Trophy, and we lost against them in 2007, at the same time, we lost to them.  And I feel at the same time they had a big tournament in Bangladesh, IPL, so they know how to play One Day Cricket now.  So tomorrow we just need to go there and express ourselves.Q. There are a lot of left-handed batsmen on the Bangladesh side.  How do you see yourself -- as the bowlers, what is your role in tomorrow's match against left-handed batters?SURESH RAINA: I think I just look to bowl to left-handers.  I just need to give good overs to skipper, at the same time I need to maintain the pressure because as soon as the main bowler is taking a lot of wickets, my role is just to bowl and make the pressure for the other bowlers to take wickets.  So I think important game for us tomorrow, so we all are looking forward to it.Q. As the Bangladesh team is saying the pressure is on the champions so they have nothing to lose.  So what sort of place will that have in the match?  And which other areas -- have you seen Bangladesh playing in this tournament?  Any matches you've seen, and what areas do you think you can explore?SURESH RAINA: I think all the games in World Cup when you're playing quarterfinals are very important.  All of the matches are going in a pressure situation.  We need to just go in there and play to what we have in the dressing room.  We can't just think what we have.  We have played a lot of matches against them.  We just need to play positive cricket, need to do proper process in bowling, batting and fielding.  I think we will do well and definitely the team to win the World Cup.  So I think it's going to start.  The main World Cup is going to start for us tomorrow.Q. The captain takes part in crucial partnership with you in the previous match.  What does the captain -- he didn't get too many runs in the last few matches.  What does he --SURESH RAINA: Who?Q. The captain, Dhoni?SURESH RAINA: He got a run in the last game.Q. I know, but before that he didn't have a great run.  What does this kind of form mean to the team?SURESH RAINA: Definitely he lost four wickets up front, and me and MS batted so many times together.  So he always knew what's my game plan when I played in such situations.  So I need to just back myself, back my strength, look to build a partnership with it, and I have done that.Q. For the team, not just personally for you, but for the team.  What does him getting out for the team?SURESH RAINA: No, he's been getting, like I said, he scored 200 runs against West Indies, and he scored 85 against Zimbabwe.  So I think good thing every batsman tested in the last six games.  So if Shikhar Dhawan is not there and he's not batting well, if he is not there, and then MS and myself, and still I think we have done the whole work.  Now we just need to play good cricket in quarterfinals.Q. You've mainly been slotted at number five.  But in the first game you were promoted to number four.  So as a batsman, how do you adjust to being kind of a floater and what stage do you expect to be promoted when there are lesser overs or what kind of situations?SURESH RAINA: I think it depends on coach and captain, what they're asking me to do.  We have always had a lot of meetings before the main games what sort of bowling attack they have, and what sort of batting has to do at the same time batting number four, I need to just see before the batting power play I need to spend more time on the wickets so I can play my strokes later on. So I think I've done that really in the last couple of years.  So what our team needs me to do, I need to prepare myself because the other day, the team is more important than your four, five or six, whatever it is.  You need to give your best shot whether you're playing four, five or six.  You just need to play yourself.Q. From 2011 to 2015 there were a lot of players.  Now how are you working these four years and what kind of responsibilities have increased as far as your batting is concerned?SURESH RAINA: I have two reserve players.  I have (Indiscernible).  Four, five six, I played a lot of matches with them.  So at the same time I knew what sort of batting I need to do in One Day Cricket, so I played a lot of matches down the order and up the order.  So I think I've become more mature after 2011 and didn't have much time to play in 2011.  Played all the crucial games, quarterfinal, semifinals, finals and after that I think we won Champions Trophy in England and became No. 1 in One Day then Test Matches. So a long journey, but as a team I think we have done really well in all departments.  If you look at the last six games we took 60 wickets.  And medium pace of fast bowlers have been a lot of disciplined work.  They've had a very good process with Barasa and Sanjay Bangar, and Laruseth we've been doing a lot of meetings with them.  So I think credit goes to all of the staff.  They've been doing a great job for us. When it comes to ICC Champions Trophy or I mean the World Cup, you need to just play yourself and look to believe yourself and you can win in any situation.Q. What was that one playing in the Bangladesh team that India is focusing on?  And have you watched any footage of their fast bowlers who have also done pretty well in this World Cup?SURESH RAINA: No, we're not looking to anyone to be honest.  We want to congratulate them.  They are qualified for the quarterfinal, and they've done well.  Like I said, they are an important team.  India, Pakistan, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh, all four of us have qualified for the World Cup, so everyone was talking about this new rule, new ball. They don't have all-arounders in such Australian and New Zealand conditions.  Now you see four of us are in the quarterfinals, so I think it's good to see that to be honest.  So we just need to play our strength.  We're not thinking what they have and what they don't have.  We just need to play 20 balls.  We just need to have a partnership.  We need to bowl in good areas, and we need to play really good cricket tomorrow.Q. Is there an element of unpredictability with the Bangladesh the way they play their game?  And if there is any predictability, what are the challenges of playing a place like that?SURESH RAINA: Just mentioned earlier, I'm thinking about my team.  I'm not thinking about them to be honest.  We have done well, but we have to think about what we can do tomorrow.  It can be a good game tomorrow to be honest.  But we just need to play good cricket for the next, I would say two weeks.  We just need to apply ourselves, need to be disciplined and enjoy a lot of success on the field and the results will follow.Q. You have played a competitive game here in South Africa at MCG.  So can I just describe what was the game like.  What it meant playing here at the MCG and just generally what it means to play in these conditions?SURESH RAINA: No, we've played Test Matches here and we played against Australia and South Africa.  So we've been spending a lot of time in Australia for the last four and a half months now.  So it's like we're used to the conditions more than other teams, so we need to just go there and play positive cricket.  I'm not thinking what to do tomorrow.Q. Talking about a bowler on the team?  I mean --SURESH RAINA: No, we are acclimated to these condition.  We have a lot of practice in the nets and we have played many games in Melbourne.  We just need to play good cricket.  That's it.  Keep it simple.Q. 60 wickets are fine, actually.  But if you look back at the last two games, Zimbabwe and Ireland, not the best of teams.  And you're considering 260 and almost 290.  Seeing that Bangladesh also has managed to defend at 275 against England, do you agree that you're considering that many runs in a must-win game will be ideal?SURESH RAINA: We need to be more disciplined.  Like you mentioned, Ireland was very tough.  They played really well.  At the same time Bangladesh played well against England and other teams, so we just need to bowl well.  We need to feel the energy in the game, feel yourself, be positive and pumped up for the quarterfinal games. I think 2015 World Cup we have done really well in the last six games.  Now quarterfinal stages, you don't have much time for that now.  You just need to do everything right whether you're bowling, batting or fielding.Q. Your batting in this World Cup started very well against Pakistan, and you had a century in the last game.  How would you sort of describe the pattern of play that you've had with the bat going out into the center and finally getting a big hundred?SURESH RAINA: I think I'm glad it happened in Zimbabwe and got enough to settle myself.  When the team needed me the most and when you deliver it's the best feeling.  At the same time, I got lucky.  I was batting with MS and he told me you just need to be focused with what you're doing the last few years.  You need to be calm for yourself.  Whenever you get the ball, you need to play. I really love all those pressure situations, I have done that in the past, but that game I got plenty of overs to chase those targets, so I was very happy to win that game for my team.  So I think now we have done all the homework in the batting department.  Whether we're chasing, whether we're defending, we all need to go and express ourselves.  I think we're all looking forward to that.Q. What are your memories of World Cup as a key when you're growing up?  Number two, how does it feel getting a hundred in the World Cup?SURESH RAINA: I think when we won in (Indiscernible), I was part of the team.  So it was very special for me.  Played World Cup first time, won the World Cup.  Now this is the second time I'm playing in Australia and we are threw to the quarterfinals. We need to believe we can win it, so I think everyone believes.  They're very focused today before the quarterfinal game.  So I think everyone is doing their preparation for the game, so I'm very excited to play quarterfinal tomorrow against Bangladesh.Q. Melbourne wicket is known to be a bit on the slower side and slow bowlers do well.  Is the Indian batting concentrating more on the slow bowlers and playing them better?SURESH RAINA: Who is a slow bowler?Q. Bangladesh.SURESH RAINA: No, they don't have a slow bowling attack.  They have good fast bowlers.Q. Bowlers like Shakib has done well in the early matches as well, so the spinners as well.SURESH RAINA: No, they have fast bowlers.  They have Taskin is there.  He has bowled well.  They have Rubel and Mushfiqur, and they all are experienced bowlers.  Shakib has done really well in IPL, and he's been to top 10 rankings. So it's important to look to yourself and be positive all the time.  You can't think about them and what they have and what they have not.  So we just need to play positive cricket tomorrow.Q. Do you think Bangladesh can come hard in this game because they want to achieve some moments here?SURESH RAINA: Definitely.  We need to just -- I've said so many times we need to just see ourselves and be disciplined when you're batting and you're bowling.  Just throw the ball and diving here and there and take brilliant catches, do brilliant run outs. I think they have done well.  They're reached into the quarterfinal and now they're playing against India, and they've won against us also, so we just need to be positive and just come to look to enjoy each and every bowl.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT