US OPEN
August 31, 2003
Paola Suarez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.  
 
 
Q.  How were you able to maintain your composure and concentration very deep in the third set?  You were down a break. 
 
PAOLA SUAREZ:  Yeah, I mean, yeah, she break me in the third set, but I try to keep concentrate, you know, and play every point.  I knew that it is tough for both of us, you know, to quarterfinal and to try to not get nervous, you know.  When she was a little bit tight on the important moment, I try to keep going.  
 
Q.  How do you explain that your play this summer, the last couple months, has been so good in singles as opposed to the rest of the year? 
 
PAOLA SUAREZ:  Yeah.  I think I start to play  -- this year for me was really good, you know.  I think it's the best year for me, you know, because I can play  -- I play all the tournaments at a good level.  I feel my confidence every tournament, you know.  Was the first time in all the Grand Slam I do more than third round.  It's really - how do you call? - Same level, equal, yeah.  
 
Q.  Why do you think that is?  Why at age 27 are you having your best year? 
 
PAOLA SUAREZ:  Yeah, I think I have a lot of experience now, you know.  Mentally, I'm more strong, you know.  I think now I can  -- I think that I can play with like a good level, you know, and I believe myself more than other years.  
 
Q.  You mentioned mentally strong.  How much mental toughness did it take in that last game with all the deuces, all the matchpoints?
 
PAOLA SUAREZ:  Yeah.  It's just to try to play every point.  I'm not thinking about the result, you know.  It's just playing the point and try to win each point.  That's it.  
 
Q.  Do you maybe have more desire now to win in singles because you know when you're 27 that you don't have as many years left to be very successful? 
 
PAOLA SUAREZ:  I don't know.  I don't think that I wait until 27 to try to win a match, you know.  I think it's like this. Yeah, I try to keep going like this and try to play in the better I can do, you know, all the other years that I'm gonna play.  
 
Q.  As great a doubles player as you are, in singles, why don't we see you at the net more? 
 
PAOLA SUAREZ:  (Laughing).  Because in the doubles, I think that our key is not the net, is the baseline.  I think, yeah, doubles, we play really good, we return good.  
 
Q.  In doubles you volley well when you're given the volleys. 
 
PAOLA SUAREZ:  Yeah. 
 
Q.  You don't have as much faith in singles that you can  --
 
PAOLA SUAREZ:  Yeah, I think it's different tactic, you know.  Some players have facility to go to the net; other players stay in the back. 
 
Q.  Is there anything special, what you were trying to do today?
 
PAOLA SUAREZ:  Anything special?  
 
Q.  Yes.
 
PAOLA SUAREZ:  Yeah, I try to be aggressive today, you know, because she play really good when she's inside the court, you know, when she's, yeah, inside the court.  In the end I try to lob her a little bit because I didn't do too much this in all the games.  I know that if I lob her from her forehand, is gonna be good for me.  And when she's tight, it's good, that shot. But I just  -- I was focus, you know, on every point, yeah.  
 
Q.  You played Lindsay a couple weeks ago, very tough.  Does that give you some confidence that maybe you can beat her here? 
 
PAOLA SUAREZ:  Yeah, I hope so (laughing).  Yeah, I played Lindsay in Los Angeles.  I lost in three sets.  I think every match are different, you know.  I hope I play as good that I play in LA, you know.  And I try to  -- of course I try to win the match, you know.  Try to be aggressive with her, try to move her, yeah.  
 
Q.  Did that take a lot out of you physically today?  There was sun, it was kind of warm, three sets?
 
PAOLA SUAREZ:  No, I think it was okay.  Was not really, really warm, you know.  It was okay.  The weather was fine.  Three sets, it's okay for us to play three sets, you know.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT