DESERT CLASSIC
January 17, 2019
Jhonattan Vegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Great play today.  What is it about the desert, you won here before, but not these golf courses.  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: No, to be honest I haven't had that much success on these golf courses.  But it's just some good memories.  Every time I come here obviously all the memories from that first win come to my head and it brings so much joy just to go through all of the shots and holding that trophy at the end of the day for my first TOUR victory that make this is place super special.  I've been joking with my wife about trying to get a place and come here during the winter.  But I just feel comfortable, I have a lot of friends and it's a happy place for me.   
 Q.  I was fortunate to be able to make that winning call with you, so we have known each other for a long time back in 2011.  Today it looked simple for you today.  You didn't play your best, but with the exception I think of the shot that you hit off the tee at No. 12, an iron off the tee, you do not want to lay it up left or in the rough, but other than that it was a smart, managed round of golf.  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Yeah, obviously first round of the year, feel like I was doing a lot of good things, a lot of things well.  I think this course, the Stadium Course you have to drive it well.  I kept the ball in play most of the time in the right places except that one, but I still managed to hit a decent shot out of there.  But it's a place that you have to keep it in front of you.  I was able to do that today, give myself a bunch of chances and made a few, could have made more as always, but happy with the 66.   
 Q.  La Quinta is playing easy today.  The easiest course in the rotation.  You've got to drive it well there, don't you?  That's where you're headed tomorrow.  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Yeah, you have to drive it extremely well there.  Obviously I mean you can't really kind of get caught up on scores, you got to go there and still hit some good shots because if not it's easy to make bogeys too.  So always you have to go with the mentality to go low and play well, but you got to take it one shot at a time.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT