THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 26, 2018
Jhonattan Vegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You had a number in mind and you were able to play your way through.
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Number, no.  I didn't have a number.  I knew it was going to take a good round, especially the way the course has been playing all week.  I knew that I had to go low today.  I knew it was going to be super hard for me because obviously I'm worn out right now.  It been six weeks, starting with the open, which was a crazy week.  To this point, it's been a pretty long, long six weeks.  I've never been this tired in my life I think.
But I knew that I had been playing good golf; that if I could control my emotions throughout the whole golf course, I was going to give myself a good chance to make it.  Obviously on 18, I made it a little too interesting.  I had a really awful lie on the fairway and then an even worse one on the third shot.  But you know, thank God I made a good putt.  It looks like it's going to be enough to advance.
Q. Standing over that putt on 18, are you thinking, this could be for next week?
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Yeah, definitely.  It's hard not to.  I mean, it's not that we're machines and we don't think.  We think.  Obviously you've got to try to keep those thoughts away and only focus on that 8-footer down the hill, right-to-left, so perfect.  But you know, especially I think what it helps to an extent, just how tired I am right now, that I just had to think about hitting just another put.
But obviously happy.  Happy the way I'm playing.  Happy to play well starting the Playoffs, and we'll see what next week brings.
Q. Is the fatigue more mental or physical?
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Both.  When you've been on the road playing golf for six weeks, travelling, different countries and all that stuff, it just wears you out.
Physically and mentally even more.
Q. So the Friday start next week should help?
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Yeah, I don't think I'm going to be doing anything from here -- to be honest, if I should play the course, because I know it already fairly well, and having energy, more than I did at the beginning of the week, made a big difference.
Q. What will you do to recharge?
JHONATTAN VEGAS: There's a lot of things that you can do to recharge.  Obviously not play golf, but recover, the way you hydrate yourself, the way you eat, the way you take care of your body, all that stuff, and obviously mentally, it's a big issue, too, doing whatever you can.  That's what I've been doing the last few weeks.  It's been helping but not as much as I would like.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT