RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 25, 2018
Jhonattan Vegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: We'll get started here with two-time defending champion at the RBC Canadian Open Jhonattan Vegas.  You've got an opportunity to become the first player in the history of the tournament to win three times in a row.  Can we get a couple comments from you as you begin your title defense.   
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Yeah, obviously that would be something extremely cool to do.  Obviously nobody has ever done it, which means that it's not going to be an easy task to achieve at the end of the week.  But it's a place that I feel super comfortable.  I think I'm really lucky that I've been able to play on the same course for the past three years, which that makes it a little bit easier to do instead of playing different courses every year, which would happen at this golf tournament.  That being said, I think it's going to be -- I'm going to give it a try.  I'm going to try my best, like I do every year.  It's a place that I feel extremely comfortable at.   
The course is playing a little bit softer than in previous years, which is going to mean that a lot of birdies are going to have to be made around this place.  But it's always super cool coming back and defending a title, so we'll do our best.   
THE MODERATOR: As you said, this is a course you obviously enjoy playing.  You've qualified for the TOUR Championship in each of the last two seasons, but right now you're No. 123 in the FedExCup.  It must feel good to come to a place like this to make a push to secure your spot in the FedExCup Playoffs.   
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Yeah, definitely.  Obviously the past two years I've come into this week not having a great season and have been able to turn things around after this week.  Obviously I don't want to put extra pressure on myself, but it's always something that I want to start turning around a little bit and giving myself a better chance to make TOUR Championship, which for me is the best thing that you can do at the end of the year.  That's where everyone wants to be at the end of the year, especially being there the past three years and knowing how impressive it is to be there with those 30 guys playing for the Cup.   
 Q.  We talked a number of years ago actually before you won the Canadian Open and you said you're really comfortable in the city of Toronto and you really liked it.  What is it you like about coming back here?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: You know, I mean, obviously I think it's kind of the people.  I've always felt that I just feel super comfortable around this place.  I mean, people are really more my type of personalities, which everyone is more outgoing, everyone is more outside, walking, doing things, just having a good time, always enjoying the weather when they can, especially this time of year.  Obviously there are a lot of Venezuelan people that live here obviously in the city, so being able to connect with that, I always feel the energy here in this city.  It's always been fun, even when I used to play on the Web and drive through here.  I've always been able to stop here in Toronto for a day or so and hang out in the city.   
 Q.  You've obviously had a lot of success here at the Abbey.  With it potentially set to close, how do you feel about the Open changing venues moving forward?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: I think it's great obviously for golf in Canada.  Being such a huge country, I think it's super important that you keep moving the tournament around and keep growing golf here in Canada.  Obviously I've been super lucky to have it here, have success on this golf course, so I mean, the closing part I really hope that the city is smart enough to know -- not to decide on that.  This is such a historic place.  Pretty much every great golfer has come here and has won here, so the history that this place has is enormous, one of the oldest championships on the PGA TOUR, and like I said, how many history we have on this golf course, it would be a shame to lose it just to be houses.   
 Q.  You're also getting a new date here at this championship next year, moving to the week before the U.S. Open, and a lot of fans are excited about that.  Could you comment on the date change?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Yeah, I've been talking to a lot of Canadians, and they seem to like that date even better because the weather tends to be a lot better, a little bit cooler, which -- even though right now it's perfect; I don't know what they're complaining about being hot.  I live in Houston.  But they're saying that it's perfect, so everyone seems to be excited about the new date.  I think it's going to be great for the tournament, right before the U.S. Open, too, so a lot of guys are going to come to get ready to play the U.S. Open, so it's going to be a perfect date for the golf tournament.   
 Q.  Is it easier to come to Canada than going to Carnoustie?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Well, I mean, I've definitely spent more time here in Canada than I've done in the UK, and obviously last week was a little chaotic for me.  Luckily this week it's a little bit easier, and things have turned out to be nicer.   
 Q.  How can you prepare for such a big tournament with (indiscernible)?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: I mean, obviously it's in the past, luckily.  There's nothing you can do now.  Like I said, from the moment I got out of the plane here on Sunday night, I just felt comfortable that it's a new week, it's a new tournament, it's a tournament I've had a lot of success at.  Just that simple fact makes me feel a little more calm, and even going around this golf course, hitting shots and remembering all the good shots that I've hit around here makes it a lot easier to put that week behind.   
 Q.  The 18th hole, the challenges of the 18th hole, what are they in relationship to the risk-reward of the hole?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Well, it's a hole that, one, you have to start with a really good tee shot.  It's not easy squeezing that tee shot between those bunkers, and you have to be on the fairway.  So that's number one.  And then number two, you have -- I mean, a really, really tough second shot, a green that is kind of like inclined pretty much towards the water, so you don't have a lot of room front to back to kind of stop the ball.  So you have to really hit a phenomenal golf shot to actually get it on that green.  I think we're lucky a little bit this week that it's a little softer, but you don't have a lot of room hitting into that green, so it's easier to kind of bail out to the left and then have a super uncomfortable bunker shot, downhill, into the water.  So it's a hole that presents a lot of challenges, but if you're able to hit two really good shots, you're going to be really happy with a good chance for eagle.   
 Q.  Two years ago you won with a winning score of 12-under, last year with a winning score of 21-under par.  Does it give you the utmost confidence that you can handle this golf course regardless of what it throws at you and how tough or easy it's playing?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Well, I've been able to play it well, being super firm like it was two years ago and then a little softer last year, which it seems softer this year again.  It obviously changes on how aggressive you can be around the golf course, and I don't think the strategy changes as much, but you can definitely be a little more aggressive.  It's like we're talking about 18, you can definitely feel like you can attack a little bit more that back right pin, or you can definitely have a little more freedom to hit at some of the spins being softer.  Obviously I don't think the game plan changes that much, it's just the attitude you take and some of the hole locations.   
 Q.  Obviously you're going for the three-peat.  There hasn't been a three-peat in this tournament.  There's been guys who have been close, but how much is that on your mind about making history here?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: You know what, like I said earlier, it's really cool to have that opportunity.  Obviously not many guys on TOUR have that opportunity to win the same tournament three times, especially this one.  That has never been done, which like I said, it's not an easy task.  But I think what I'm really lucky about is that I've had the same tournament on the same course for the past three years, and it usually changes every single year, which that's kind of what makes it super hard.  In that sense, I feel super comfortable playing here, but I also know that it's not going to be an easy task to win three times.  I feel comfortable.  I feel like my game is in the right place, even though last week it was a little chaotic, but I feel like my game is in the right place and things are going the right way, so we're going to give it a try.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT