THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 10, 2018
Jhonattan Vegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Great start to the round.  Some comments on your day.
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Obviously pretty good day.  Shooting 65 around this place, we were a little fortunate to not have a ton of wind for most of the round, and I guess we were also playing with Webb who was having a good round, and we were able to keep it going and keep firing at some of these pins, and I was fortunate enough to shoot a good round and in good conditions.
Q. How much of a push is it having to have someone alongside you playing well?
JHONATTAN VEGAS: It's good because it kind of keeps you in a good momentum when you see shots, good shots after good shots.  It's just really keeping you focused and trying to hit good shots, too.  So obviously we were able to do that from the beginning and all the way to the end, which it was nice.  Hopefully we can keep it up.
Q. (No Microphone.)
JHONATTAN VEGAS: I was.  The conditions were really, really gettable this morning.  The greens were softer, zero wind, which is strange in this place.  So you could actually be very aggressive with some of these pins, and we were able to do that.
Q. Does it make you more fearful tomorrow if it changes?
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Not necessarily, but you got to take a different conditions when greens get firmer and the winds are picking up.  So it's not as gettable, so you have to find other ways to make birdies.
Q. Nice play today, 5-under here at THE PLAYERS in an opening round.  That's a good one because this place can get tough.
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Well, I mean, it is hard not to have a smile on your face when you shoot 5-under at this place.  We were a little lucky to have kind of no wind kind of the first 12, 13 holes here.  Conditions were a little bit softer, so we were able to kind of be a little more aggressive than usual.  But still solid, still hard, still a place that if you lose your concentration you're going to pay.  I was happy to shoot a 5-under round.
Q. How about this golf course?  Has it ever been in better shape than it is now?
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Yeah, this is my sixth or seventh time around here, and I don't think I've ever seen it this good.  It's amazing the job they did to get this place as good as it is.  All the changes, it looks like it's coming together, and the course is turning into an even better golf course.
Q. I've got to ask you about the coin.  You've got the gold coin working.  What's the significance of it?
JHONATTAN VEGAS: You know, it's just really cool to have such an iconic coin marking your ball, knowing the importance of the gold coin marking your golf ball.  It's a sense that it's something important, something of pride.  It's about having that importance when you're about to putt.  Actually when somebody mentioned it to me if I wanted to use it this week, I said, yeah, it would be perfect this week, so I'm loving it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT