WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 19, 2018
Jhonattan Vegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What's it like being back in Austin?
JHONATTAN VEGAS: It's always phenomenal being in this place.  I was telling my friend today that this course was actually my first qualifying round when I came to UT.  So it brings a lot of good memories, a lot of fun ones.  A lot of good stuff.  A lot of learning experience to this place.
And more than that, it's always good catching up with people I haven't seen in a long time.  And just really feeling that good energy through everyone here.  So loving it.
Q. And how consistent your game has been over the last couple of years?
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Well, pretty much, I feel this tournament was actually a big motivator for me.  Once I knew we came to Austin, I really wanted to be here.  It was a place that is really close to my heart.  Actually my American dad, was a member of this club.  Used to come here, practice a lot when I was in Texas.  So obviously when I knew that it was here, just tried to do everything to be here.  So I'm going to do everything to keep coming here.
Q. After playing in this last year, what did you learn not to do this year?
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Here you've just got to play good golf.  You're playing against the top 64 players in the world.  So you have to play good golf.
Obviously I came pretty close last year.  Lost a ball on 18 and won my other two matches to advance.  So obviously I feel like I have a little bit of course knowledge on my side from playing here so much.  So hopefully I can just keep using that knowledge and play better this time.
Q. We were talking with Dylan Frittelli, he feels like anybody can win it.  Do you feel that way?
JHONATTAN VEGAS: When you have the top 64 players in the world, anyone can win, obviously.  And this course, especially, it doesn't suit anyone in particular.  It's not a long course, but it's about putting yourself in the right spots and obviously making putts.  So, yeah, I mean I feel like anyone can win.  I feel like I have a pretty good sense of what the course should do and should play like.  Hopefully I can execute and hold that trophy on Sunday.
Q. Is there any difference in your practice round than last year?
JHONATTAN VEGAS: The course is definitely in better shape this time than it was last year.  So at least the weather has helped keeping the course in good condition, which is a lot of fun seeing the course in this great condition.  So I think it's going to play good.  The wind should pick up.  It's always windy here in Austin.  We've just got to try to deal with the elements and have fun.
Q. Everyone other here talks about Jordan and talks about you and Beau and Cody, how much have you followed Dylan?
JHONATTAN VEGAS: You tend to follow guys that for UT, and actually playing professionally.  Every time you turn pro, you're keeping up with him, and seeing what he's doing and how he's playing.  Obviously he's taken off the past kind of year and a half.
I'm real excited for him and the way he's playing golf.  Obviously root for the guy, especially after he made the putt to win the National Championship.  I always root for the guy and wish him the best.
Q. People talk about the young guys, and Phil won again, Bubba Watson, some guy named Tiger is doing okay.  The old guys, they've got some game left?
JHONATTAN VEGAS: That's the beauty of the PGA Tour.  As long as you're here, you always have a chance.  Always the competition is getting tougher and tougher.  And you obviously it's a hard win.  Anyone can sneak and play good golf and win.  Some of the younger guys keep pushing the bar higher and higher.  It's definitely making the Tour better.  Some of the older guys have to keep up.  And I'm getting a little bit older, almost mid-30s.  I feel old now compared to the 21, 22-year-old guys.
Q. There's a photo hanging of yourself in the locker room after your first win.  Do you ever walk past that and kind of --
JHONATTAN VEGAS: You know what, I've seen it once or twice.  But I don't go around there often.  But it's cool.  Like I said, this place is really, really close to heart.  And all the great memories.  All the good people around Austin Country Club makes this place phenomenal.  So obviously every time I just park in this parking lot, have a huge smile on my face, it has a lot of fond memories being here in Austin.  So it's always a good place that I feel comfortable.  And hopefully that will translate into good golf.
Q. Did you watch Tiger Woods play?
JHONATTAN VEGAS: You know, obviously I've always been a big fan of the guy.  I don't tend to watch golf that much during my weeks off, but I've definitely been watching on Sundays.  And that guy, it's scary all the good things he's doing right now.  Obviously we'd love it, because obviously he pushes golf to a whole different level.  And I just can't be more happy for the guy.
Q. Some players and caddies stay in residential areas.  Are you guys getting any special security concerns or warnings from the Tour given the bombings that have gone on?
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Yeah, I mean obviously I don't think there's a thing you can do when it comes down to that.  But not a ton of concerns, but obviously it's in the back of your mind what's happening here.  And it's obviously super scary, thinking that somebody is putting bombs around the city.  And obviously hopefully I'm pretty sure the Tour has enough security to keep things safe in here.  But this is scary what's happening.  But you've just got to take precautions.  But I don't think there's much you can do with that.
Q. How are you playing?
JHONATTAN VEGAS: I think my game, it is there.  I feel like I'm doing a lot of good things right.  Obviously short game is always an area that I have to work harder on.  I feel like I'm making a lot of progress with that.  If I can get my ball-striking, it could be scary good.  Definitely feeling a lot of confidence about my game and thinking about winning this week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT