CAREERBUILDER CHALLENGE
January 18, 2018
Jhonattan Vegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Solid playing at the Nicklaus Tournament Course, 7-under par 65.  What was the key for you out there today?
JHONATTAN VEGAS: You know what, staying patient, that's always a big thing here at this tournament, with so many gettable holes, but at the same time you cannot get ahead of yourself.  So I just stayed patient, just really taking one shot at a time, really staying focused on hitting every shot and really enjoying it.  Playing with amateurs this week, you got to enjoy that, playing with some of those GUYS, that's kind of what makes this tournament fun too.
Q. As a former champion how important is it for you to get off to a good start with the way these golf courses are playing?
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Well, you have to start well, there's no catching up on this place because everyone is on pretty much from the beginning all the way until the end, you have to make so many birdies.  So it's really important for the psyche to start with a good round and so you can really stay aggressive the whole week.
Q. Obviously playing different, a few different courses than when you won here, but still, with multiple courses, how do you prepare for an event like this?
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Well, it's obviously a lot more complicated than usual.  Obviously I've played these ones enough to really know them well, so I played nine holes on each course every day, just kind of got a good feel for what the courses are doing, HOW the greens are bouncing or greens are rolling and just kind of play on experience.  Because if you try to play 27 holes and then play 72 holes, by the end of the week you'll be super tired.  So obviously it's a lot of knowledge, but the courses are pretty simple and straightforward so there's not a lot of thinking.  But obviously for me it's all about past experience here.
Q. Take me through your eagle on 11.
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Yeah, so I hit a really good shot, we were in between shots, between irons, between 3- and 4-iron, so we decided to go with a little bit of a longer club to kind of give us, kind of make sure we hit it in the back of the green.  Hit it a little right, but I wasn't really in the best position to hit a third shot and actually hit a really good shot that landed a little bit on the grass, took the roll, trickled from right-to-left the way we read it and luckily it went in.
Q. Does it feel like it's been seven years since you won here?
JHONATTAN VEGAS: It doesn't really feel that long.  I was actually counting before I started the round today thinking that it was a little bit less and it's actually been seven years.  So obviously a lot in between those seven years, but it's been a fun journey.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT