CAREERBUILDER CHALLENGE
January 18, 2018
Jhonattan Vegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 65 today, five birdies and an eagle.  How well do you think you played?
JHONATTAN VEGAS: I played probably a little bit better than the score showed.  I obviously missed four or five birdies inside 15 feet that I wish I would have had a couple of those, but obviously with 7-under you can't really complain.  Obviously it was absolutely perfect today, so it was a day to take advantage of the weather, so I feel like I did a pretty good job of doing that.
Q. You have fond memories of this event.  We can look at your win back in your rookie season.  Go through this with me and what went through your mind at the time?
JHONATTAN VEGAS: It was a really emotional week, I had my family there with me, second start on the PGA TOUR, I always dreamed about winning on the PGA TOUR, coming from Venezuela, all of those things were very much flying through my head at that moment, so obviously it's one of those moments that I will remember for the rest of my life.
Q. Your successful defense at the Canadian Open has got you into the top-50 in the world.  How excited are you about the possibilities of what's to come there?
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Well that's obviously my goal for the year, I mean I know the importance of being high in the World Rankings, so breaking the top-50 is always very important, but I want to keep going, I want to try to get to the Top-20 and start pushing those guys up there.  So it requires a lot of work, a lot of dedication, but I'm excited for it and I feel that I can do it.
Q. Stadium Course for you tomorrow.  It's supposed to blow 20, maybe 30 miles an hour.  Talk about playing on that course in those conditions?
JHONATTAN VEGAS: I haven't really thought about it, this is the first time that I've really even heard about it, but obviously it's tough conditions on a tough course, luckily I enjoy playing with the wind, but also it's a tough course, so I'm going to have to find a way to lower expectations a little bit and try to put together a good round.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT