SENTRY TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 4, 2018
Jhonattan Vegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Ball striking.  16 of 18 greens and I think you got ripped off, personally, on 16.  Should have been 17 of 18.   
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Yeah.  No, it was definitely a solid round.  I put a little work during the off season, made some key changes to my driving, my driver, to my irons, my wedges, I went shorter with the putter, so a bunch of stuff that luckily are paying off.   
 Q.  Do you like the windy conditions?  Do you prefer the wind?  Obviously with a good ball striking day, the windier it gets, the better.  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Yeah, I feel like wind is an advantage for me, the way I flight the ball.  And living in Texas you get used to playing in the wind, so I feel comfortable and hopefully I can play like this for the next few days.   
 Q.  You punched your ticket to this tournament by winning my National Open, the RBC Canadian Open.  I'm assuming you'll be back there to defend?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Yeah, I love that place.  That's definitely my favorite stop on TOUR.  Winning two years in a row, I can't wait to be back and defend that title, so.  But it's always great starting here by winning that one.   
 Q.  The greens have a little bit of a disease coming off a soft December.  Have you noticed anything with the greens?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Yeah, I would say that the greens are not in their best shape as they have been before, especially.  But as golfers you have to deal with a lot of that stuff.  Sometimes we get spoiled from having perfect greens every single week, but you can't really take it too personal when the greens are not perfect.  You just have to do your best to putt those.  I personally grew up on greens that weren't the best, so it doesn't really bother me.  So it is what it is.  It's the same for everyone, too.   
 Q.  Tough, windy day.  When you look back at your round what stands out to you?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Well, I really drove the ball well today.  Even though the fairways are a little bit difficult here I was able to place the ball pretty much all day in some prime spots, which gives you a lot of opportunities to attack these hole locations.  It's always good on a big course like this to drive it well.   
 Q.  Do you feel like your game rotates around how well you drive the ball?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: It's a big key for my game to drive it well.  I feel like I hit my irons as good as some of the best on TOUR, and if I'm able to keep it in play, give myself some really good positions to attack these hole locations, I'm going to have a lot of birdie opportunities which is always good.   
 Q.  Are you a guy that looks at goals, being result-oriented statistically?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: I'm always driven by goals.  Last year was a pretty good year for me being top-50 in the world, and obviously this year I want to move up even higher, somewhere in the 20s, 25, somewhere around there.  So obviously if I put my mind there, obviously I have to work a little bit harder to get there and work better to get there.  But during the off season we made some key changes and we're making some progress towards that and obviously the round today it paid off.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT