THE PRESIDENTS CUP
September 27, 2017
Jhonattan Vegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What's the experience been like?
JHONATTAN VEGAS: It's been, to be honest, it's been obviously an amazing experience.  You know, obviously a lot more fun than what I had in mind.  I've heard from a lot of guys that it was one of the greatest weeks we have as a golfer.
But it's been more than that:  Being able to be part of a team; being able to leave all the personal egos and personal thoughts aside and put it into a team goal, you know, has been amazing.  I think this year, I feel different, obviously not having been on the previous teams.  But we have a young group of guys that are hungry to win and having a tremendous amount of fun.
When this happens, it's obviously a lot of fun to be around.
Q. Talk about playing with Adam?
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Playing with Adam, it's been a lot of fun.  Playing right next to that guy, a guy that plays golf as good as Adam does; and not only that, it's a guy that plays with a lot of confidence, that even though he might look like a quiet guy, he's a guy that has a lot of fire inside of him.
So I've been able to obviously feed off him, and we have meshed really well the last couple of practice days.
Q. Why do you feel like you guys mesh?
JHONATTAN VEGAS: I think our personalities are a little bit similar.  We're not overly expressive and we don't tend to show a lot.  But at the same time, we are guys that when we go out there, we give it 100 percent of what we've got, and no matter what happens, we're going to fight for each other.
Q. How is the golf course?
JHONATTAN VEGAS: The golf course is amazing, simple as that.  It's a course that you're going to have to make birdies for sure.  But it's a course that obviously rewards aggressive play.
Q. You're one of six guys here that also played on the Olympics.  Obviously very different but at the same time, you're not just playing for yourself, you're playing for countries.  Anything you can take from the Rio Games and apply here?
JHONATTAN VEGAS: I would say this is completely different from Rio.  Obviously Rio, you're trying to win a medal for your country but it's an individual sport.  It's an individual game that week.
Here, you have to leave all your personal things behind and you have to get together as a team and do whatever it takes.  Even if it is not playing for the whole week, or whatever it takes to help the team win.
Q. Thoughts on golf in the Olympics going to Paris in 2024?
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Obviously amazing.  For golf and for international golf, that's amazing.  Being able to make kids dream about being in those Olympics, representing their country for places like my country, where kids never had that dream about being in the Olympics playing golf.  So obviously amazing and hopefully we can keep it for many more years.
Q. Thoughts about coming to South America --
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Yeah, it's huge for South America.  Having Emiliano here, it's part of the same spirit.  It gives kids dreams and a chance to dream to be here one day, knowing that Latin American players can also be part of The Presidents Cup and some of the biggest stages in golf.
Obviously we have a lot of work to do but it's a great start.
Q. What's your experience in team play?
JHONATTAN VEGAS: I played the World Cup with my brother last year, and before that, college, obviously you play in teams.  But historically through my career, I've played a lot of team events representing Venezuela.
Q. It's a change for you, representing your country --
JHONATTAN VEGAS: I wouldn't say, say something, but do something positive for the country.  More than anything right now, that's what we need.  We need something positive.  We need people to get excited about things and we need positive news about the country.
So hopefully people can get the spirit up and keep fighting for better things, and hopefully one day, turn things around to move the country in a better direction.
Q. How is your house in Houston?
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Luckily, thank God, we survived all the flooding.  Nothing happened to our house or family.  Obviously a lot of people were hurt but we were fortunate enough to be okay.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT