THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 27, 2017
Jhonattan Vegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Can we get some comments on your round?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Yeah, obviously a good round, under the circumstances, obviously I needed to play well with everything on the line:  With trying it make it to East Lake, trying to make Presidents Cup and all of that stuff.  It's always good to go out and put a great round together.   
 Q.  You see a lot of guys dropping back.  How were you able to stay hot, coming back after maybe a not-so-good round yesterday?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: I knew I've been playing good golf and I just have to stay aggressive with everything in my game.  Obviously I hurt myself a little bit yesterday with two over but it's golf.  You just have to put it behind and focus on the task at hand.   
 Q.  Have you been in touch with your family?  Is everything okay?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Yeah, luckily everything is good, which is always good.  We've had a lot of rain.  Luckily we live up north which is a little bit higher ground and not as much flooding.  But obviously Houston is taking a beating on all the rain and all the flooding, so hopefully people are staying safe.   
 Q.  How are you able to separate that from keeping in the right frame of mind in the course with everything going on back in your home state?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: The main thing is the family is okay.  I know there's a lot of people hurting right now with the rain but you know, it's one of those things that sometimes you have to learn to deal with and try to putt as much things behind.   
There's not much that I can do at the moment, so you know, I'm sure they are feeling a little bit better that I actually had a good day today.   
 Q.  You've actually locked up Pricey's table this week.  Just talk about being on that side.  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Well, I had two really hard weeks for Presidents Cup points, and I've said it all along, I really, really wanted to make the team.  This is I guess the first time that I've actually had a really good shot at making it, so I really want to be a part of it.  I've watched so many Presidents Cups on TV, so I know how much fun it is to play in one of those.  Especially Nick Price, a good guy, I love the way he plays.   
It's just nice to be able to play good and help myself to make it.   
 Q.  It looks like you'll be one of the form players of the team, too.  Are you ready to take these Americans on?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Well, obviously, you know, we have no other choice.  I think we have a great team.  Obviously it's always a battle against the Americans, which, you know, historically they have had the better team.  But you know, I think there's a lot of good players on our side, too.  So it should be fun.   
 Q.  Have you played with any potential teammate that you would tell Nick would you like to be paired with?  Does anyone come to mind?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Not really.  I'm the type of player that I get along with everyone; that I don't really mind playing with anyone.  You know, as long as we're both focused on the same goal, I think I don't mind playing with anyone.   
 Q.  Do you feel like you're playing for your home --  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Well, you always want to play good to get the fans and get your family feeling good about what you're doing out here, so it's rewarding getting a lot of that positive feedback.  Especially when I have going on in my country, Venezuela, and what's happening in Houston at the moment; a lot of tough news that I hopefully can put a few smiles on a few people.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT