THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 25, 2017
Jhonattan Vegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  5-under 65, bogey-free.  Just talk about the day.  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: You know, obviously it was a phenomenal round on a really tough course.  Really lucky, obviously to get a bogey-free round on this place.  I mean, made some really good par putts.  But overall, I felt really good.  I felt really in control the whole day.  Hit my irons extremely well.  Didn't really put myself in any big trouble.  I think that's the key for a great weekend here, too.   
 Q.  Can you talk about the par putts, no bigger than the one on 18.  What was your mind-set going into that?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Well, I mean, I was actually a little bit more into it than some of the previous ones because I really didn't want to finish with a bogey on 18.  That's never very good.  Obviously a lot of the par putts on this course, really helped keep the momentum.  I felt like I was able to do that, even from the first hole.  I made a 6-footer for par, and especially on that really tough hole, almost feels like a birdie.   
When things like that happen, you start feeling better about your game and you start feeling better about things and you can put a good round together.   
 Q.  You have as good a shot as any; how do you feel confidence-wise?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Obviously feeling with confidence, but it's a course that you can't relax.  You have to be 100 percent focused on what you're doing.  But I feel like if I keep doing what I'm doing, I could have a great chance at holding the trophy on Sunday.   
 Q.  How worried is your wife about Harvey and just being there without you there?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Yeah, it's hard.  It's hard not being home, not being able to help with the house and with everything.   
I think I'm a little bit fortunate that we live up north in the Woodlands, and historically, by the time hurricanes come into Houston, it takes a little longer to get into Houston.  But you never know what could happen.  I'm in touch with them the whole day today, and you know, hopefully it will be just some precipitation (ph) but nothing more than that.   
 Q.  Are they putting up shutters and stuff like that?  Is it that serious?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Like I said up north in Houston -- so I live about, I don't know, 50, 60 miles from the coast.  So I think by the time the hurricane hits Houston, it will soften by the time it gets up north.  Obviously we're going to get a lot of rain and a lot of wind, but I don't think it should be more than that.   
 Q.  Have you been through this before?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: We've been through many hurricanes, even some tough ones, Ike several years ago was a really tough one through Houston that we had to get out of there.  And so hopefully this one doesn't look as it's going to be as big, but it's always scary.  It's always scary when you have a wife and daughter and mom at home by themselves, so God willing, nothing will happen.   
 Q.  How do you reassure them?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Well, there's not much you can say.  You've just got to look at the news, see what they say.  Hopefully, you know, say some positive things about the hurricane moving up north.  But obviously we have to check on it and we have to be talking to them all the time.  Obviously it's something that it's going to be in the back of my mind for the next few days.   
 Q.  Hopefully they can watch you on the telecast instead of the news.  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Hopefully they will have some cable running with all this.  But yeah, that would be something to distract them from all this.   
 Q.  Good thing you made the cut.  I think the airport might be hard to get into it.  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: I don't think I would be able to get into it.   
 Q.  A more positive note, ninth in The Presidents Cup standings.  All but solidifies pretty much going forward, good performance today?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Yeah, that's definitely something that I really want to be a part of, and I've said it since the beginning of the year.  I've worked hard to put myself in this position.  Hopefully I can continue this and make the team.   
I think it's just phenomenal to be part of those teams, especially against so many great players, and put your name down with those guys, it's always something positive.   
 Q.  When you hear the mantra, grow the game, what does that mean to you?  Is that getting more people to watch?  Getting more people to play?  What do you see as your role in the whole thing?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Well, definitely it's all about getting people to come to the course and play the game.  You know, obviously people watching and all that stuff is great, but the more we can get especially young kids in the game, I think we can have a bright future.   
And you know, we've just got to support and we've got to try to encourage kids to play the game and enjoy as much as we do.   
 Q.  What got you interested in it?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: I just have a golfing family.  Everything in our family, it's all about golf.  Even vacations are about golf.  When that happens, it's a little easier to get into the game.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT