SAUDI INTERNATIONAL POWERED BY SBIA
January 30, 2020
Jhonattan Vegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 65 in what were tricky conditions, how pleased were you, 5-under?
JHONATTAN VEGAS: I'm absolutely pleased. You know, a really good round from the beginning to the end. You know, some pretty solid ball-striking but some really good work around the greens and on the greens. On a day like this, that's kind of the way you've got to have it. You've got to have a good short game to rely on so you don't have to go at some of these pins. I was able to do that and make some key putts for birdie and happy with a 65.
Q. Is that the key in these conditions, scrambling and making pars when you need to?
JHONATTAN VEGAS: There's holes here where you can score, not a ton of them, but there's a few of them, so you've got to be able to take advantage of those and kind of scramble well. If you can scramble well in this wind, it doesn't matter who you are. The wind is unpredictable. You're going to miss some shots. Scrambling is important and I was able to do that extremely well today and hopefully I can continue that.
Q. Talk us through the highlights on 9, the chip-in for par?
JHONATTAN VEGAS: You know, what I hit it in the left rough and you know, tried to run up into the green and that run up kind of fooled me, and the ball just run in the water. I knew, you know, the chip, I practised it yesterday very well but was able to hit it really well. Those are the momentum shifters that you have to have once in a while to keep a good round going.
Q. What made you come over to play on The European Tour and Saudi Arabia in particular?
JHONATTAN VEGAS: You know, what being Venezuelan, I like to travel the world. When the opportunity came to come here, I have some friends from Middle Easterns and I've never been to the Middle East. The opportunity presented itself and I never doubted it. Like I said, I love playing all over the world.
Q. How does it compare to desert courses on the PGA Tour?
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Pretty similar. I would say on the PGA Tour, you rarely get wind like this. Obviously you have the combination of the ocean and the desert here, which is kind of amazing, so that makes it even tougher. It makes it hard to keep the ball on the greens, but it's nice.
Q. Is it hard to concentrate when you get around 16 and 17, some nice views?
JHONATTAN VEGAS: It is, and especially with that wind blowing like golf course that, but it's amazing. This course has tremendous views. It's kind of easy to lose your mind when you get to some of those holes, so you have to stay focused on those. A beautiful place and having a good time so far.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT