RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 29, 2017
Jhonattan Vegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Nice finish.  You were kind of plodding along, making a lot of pars on the back side, but one at 16 and 18, you're right in the mix.  Well done?
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Obviously it was a long stretch.  Obviously 9 through 15, yeah.  But I knew that 16 and 18, you always have birdie opportunities.  Stayed patient out there but I feel like 5-under is definitely a good round.  Puts me in a good position for tomorrow.
Q. How much pressure on these back nine par 5s?  When you make that turn, you're thinking, if you're playing really well, are you thinking you can pick up a bunch of shots?
JHONATTAN VEGAS: It's kind of tricky, because you have to hit good shots.  It's not like they are obviously gimmies.  Once you get to 10, you're thinking about those three par 5s that if you're playing well, you can make up a little bit of ground.
Q. You put yourself in position tomorrow to try to win a golf tournament.  That's all you can ask?
JHONATTAN VEGAS: That's all you want.  I mean, that's what you want every single week.  After awhile, it feels to be back in contention.
Q. You told me before the round that there are a couple of things that you wanted to focus on.  One was staying aggressive and staying calm.  How did you pull that off?
JHONATTAN VEGAS: I did that exactly.  I was able to stay mentally focused out there which I think is an important thing, especially after seeing a 62 early in the round.  So obviously I knew that I had to stay aggressive.  Hit some good shots.  I really we shall I would have made a few more putts to make the round even better but obviously pleased with where I am right now.
Q. Seeing what's ahead of you on the scoreboard and knowing a 62 was out there, that was in the third round but come Sunday what is going to be the key, other than staying aggressive?
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Well, the way it's playing, you have to stay super aggressive.  There's nothing else you have to be thinking of.  There's a lot of birdies out here.  We have to find a way to make a few more birdies on everyone tomorrow and see what happens.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT