RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 28, 2017
Jhonattan Vegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Nice round out there.  Sum it up for us.  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: It was a solid round from the beginning.  I hit a lot of good iron shots.  Really wish I would have made a few more putts.  But I gave myself a lot of opportunities, which is kind of what you need to do in tough conditions.  So I did that, and you know, posted a solid round.  So in a good place for the weekend.   
 Q.  This course is playing pretty soft, giving up a lot of birdies.  Is it going to be the person that fills up the cup most that walks away with the trophy?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: I think so.  That's usually typical every week anyway but this week with the conditions being a little bit softer, I think it's going to be even more that way.  You still have to hit some good shots around this place.  Especially if the wind keeps blowing the next couple of days, there's a lot of tough shots out here:  18, 7, a lot of tough ones that you have to play some good golf.  But it's giving you a lot of opportunities, so you have to make some putts.   
 Q.  How would you compare the way you're playing this year to after 36 last year?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: I would say the biggest difference was that I was coming in with a lot of momentum last year.  The week before, I had a chance to win.  Shot 60 Friday that week.  This year, I come after five missed cuts.   
I didn't feel like my game was that far off.  I just couldn't get anything going to be honest, which is typical golf, but it's definitely disappointing.  But I feel like the game is there.  I just have to get my brain the right way and see what happens.   
 Q.  Do you have one eye on what's going on back home?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: A lot, yes.  It's really sad to see what's happening there.  Obviously our government, it's just not doing things right.  It's really an authoritarian government which they want to do things their way and that's it.  As a citizen, it obviously hurts.  I still have family there that are suffering trying to find food, medicine.  Obviously being here and living in the States, it's something sad to see.   
 Q.  Do you have another eye on The Presidents Cup at all?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: You know what, I do.  That's been on my radar since the beginning of the year.  I've always thought it would be so fun to be part of that team, especially having Nick Price as a captain, great guy.   
So I mean, it's definitely on my radar.  I've got a few weeks to really, really make a push.  I feel like my game is there.  I just have to play good these next few weeks.   
 Q.  How often do you check in on your family back home?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Oh, every day.  Obviously it's really, really tough, what's happening.  So I try my best to keep an eye on them and to help them the best way we can, even to get them out of the country for a few weeks if that's necessary.  It's just really tough.  I mean, really, really, really tough.   
 Q.  The course seems like it's still a little bit soft.  How did it play yesterday compared to yesterday?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Yes, it's definitely a little bit softer, but the wind picked up today, which made it, I would say, a couple of shots harder today.  But it's still gettable.  You still have to hit good shots with the greens being this soft.  The course is playing tougher and I think it's going to play tougher over the weekend.  But happy with my score today.  3-under, you know, I put myself in a good position for the weekend.   
 Q.  What would you say was the brightest spot in your round today?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: I hit my irons really well.  I hit some great, great, great shots.  Unfortunately I didn't make a few shots that would have been awesome to even make the round sweeter, but if I keep hitting my irons the way I am right now, I think I'm going to have a fun weekend here.   
 Q.  When the course is playing the way it is, how does that allow you to play?  Anything different compared to years in the past?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: You just have to be aggressive.  You just cannot let down.  I was playing with Dustin today, which was a good thing because we were both firing at everything.  So you have to stay aggressive out here, because these guys are making a lot of birdies.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT