SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
March 30, 2017
Jhonattan Vegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  It makes us happy and you're obviously a happy man with 66, no bogies.  What pleased you most about your playing?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Obviously going around this place and not making a bogey is always a great feeling.  I mean, I was able to finish with 2, you know, kind of sneaky long putts for par the last two holes.  I played solid all day.  I feel like I gave myself lot of great opportunities, kept myself in play from the tees.  I mean, I did exactly what I had in mind, so it was good to have some of those rounds.   
 Q.  Let's have a look at the highlights, tee shot at 14.  Tell us how you went about this one.  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: I was in between clubs.  It could have been a really hard 6-iron or kind of like a knockdown 5.  I went with a knockdown 5 to keep it down from the wind and got it on line, and it was a great shot.   
 Q.  Players this morning talking a lot about getting mud on the ball in the fairway.  What was it like this afternoon?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: It was the same way, especially the first 9, 10 holes.  Got a little bit better at the end.  The first 9, 10 holes, I mean it was a struggle, so, obviously, I think the same for everyone.  You have to keep the mentality, good and bad breaks are going to happen.  You just have to deal with it.   
 Q.  You're off to the Masters next week for the second time.  How excited about that prospect?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Super excited.  I feel I'm playing good golf right now.  Always, you know, I'm a good dreamer, so I like to dream about winning that tournament.  I mean, I'm feeling great, feeling like things are moving in the right direction.  Obviously got to play good golf, but love to win that tournament.   
 Q.  We'd love to see you win it as well.  The smile would be enormous.  Good luck tomorrow.  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Thank you, my friend.   
 Q.  Jhonny, anytime you can go in the afternoon, 66, it's a good day, good smile on your face.  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: It was a great round.  From the beginning all the way to the end, I felt like I had a great process going, which it did good for me.  Obviously, shooting 6-under on this course with everything that this course brings is always really nice.  I feel like I'm playing good golf.  Enjoying myself right now.   
 Q.  That fist pump when the putt went in on 17, that was a big one.  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: You don't want to come to 18 making a bogey on 17, you know.  It's never good for us hitting that tee shot when you make bogey on 17.  I was really trying to get a bogey-free round today, and it's always good having those and good for the confidence.  So, it's enjoyable one, yes.   
 Q.  I know getting into the field last week was big to play in Austin.  Texas is a big state.  Houston is always a good place for you to play.  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: It's home.  I have a great support here in Houston, have a lot of friends that come and watch.  It's always good vibes in this place.  Loving it.  Hopefully we keep it going for three more days.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT