PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
July 28, 2016
Jhonattan Vegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Last week, winning up there in Canada, that confirms that you belong out here on the PGA Tour.  We talked about before we did the interview.  You get one, you go, well, was it a mistake or not, but you know you belong?
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Yeah, obviously winning once is obviously a great thing.  But being able to finally be able to repeat with another win, it's even more special.  It makes the first one feel even better.  Super happy.  I know that I've been close a bunch of times and I knew that I gave myself a bunch of opportunities before, but it's always great to have another one.
Q. When you got that win and you got to come here, that smile on your face had to be being seeing this golf course.  This had to be one that you kind of like, you hit it long, it's kind of wide, it plays into your game, does it not?
JHONATTAN VEGAS: It does.  It does.  You always have to drive it well here.  That's the huge keep.  If you can keep it in the fairway and drive it long, you will have a lot of opportunities.  It's still a championship course, it's still early.  I posted a really good round today.  I'm excited for what's coming.
Q. With the rough out there, I was look at it, for a player that hits it pretty long, are you playing the fairway bunkers to keep them in play so maybe you go in those?  They seem to be mostly playable.
JHONATTAN VEGAS: They are playable.  The good thing about the bunkers here is that they are firmer than most places.  You can be aggressive.  It's the luck of the draw, to be honest.  It depends on how the rough is in different area.  There are some spots that are super tough, some others that you can put spin on the ball.  The key here is driving the ball well and giving yourself chances.
Q. If the greens firm up a little bit later in the day, be tough for the boys late, maybe?
JHONATTAN VEGAS: It will be for sure.  I feel like I actually played two rounds today, the first 10 or 11 holes and then the second seven.  Because the first 11 were softer you could be a lot more aggressive.  You could tell that the ball was bouncing a good eight or nine feet after.  Even with short irons.  It's going to be tougher.  It's good to get a feel for tomorrow too, which is nice.
Q. Have to ask you, being the last man into the field, with the big week last week in Canada, what sort of momentum did that help you carry forward into today?
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Huge.  Pretty much every momentum that you can think of.  Couple of days ago, winning the golf tournament, that gives you all the confidence in the world.  It kind of makes the major championship looks more of a regular one.  Why?  Because you don't have enough time to think about a major is coming.  I have to prepare myself, I have to do all this get ready for the course.  You play your way into it, keep rolling.  It was kind of nice to do that today.  Hopefully we can keep doing it for the next three days.
Q. How much confidence are you playing with right now?
JHONATTAN VEGAS: I feel like I've been playing good golf for a few months already.  I hit the ball really well.  Short game is coming along.  Obviously to top it off with a win last week, just boosts the confidence off the roof, which is neat coming into a week like this where there's no expectations.  I wasn't planning to be here at the beginning of the year, so it's kind of nice.
Q. Are you playing with as much confidence as you ever have in your career?
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Probably.  Probably because I know what it feels to be at the lowest, to be at the low moment of confidence and obviously getting a win, having it the week before that, giving myself a chance.  This is a year where I gave myself more opportunities to win a golf tournament.  When you put yourself in that situation, you start believing more.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT