RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 24, 2016
Jhonattan Vegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  The putt on 18 for eagle, looked good all the way.  Did you think it was going?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: I literally thought, the moment I hit it, I knew it had a chance.  I mean, Jim gave me a perfect read and a perfect speed.  I hit the drive like I wanted and at the end it trickled a little bit left.  But it is what it is.  Solid round today.  So can't complain where I'm at right now.   
 Q.  First man to 12-under par, do you think it will be enough?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: It's going to be close.  Obviously 18 is not playing as easy as it was before.  So that's a little bit -- makes me feel a little bit better.  But two par 5s coming in, so we'll see what happens.   
 Q.  What's your feeling about 12-under right now?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: It's going to be close.  I think it has a chance.  It has a really good chance.  Obviously the par 5s coming in, as I said a couple times for the guys.  They are not playing as easy as they were the first few days.  I think the number's very close.   
 Q.  You had a great run at the start of the round, five consecutive birdies.  The third of those, what kind of thinking at this point, as the birdies kept on coming?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: I knew I had to get off to a fast start.  I know that I was in striking distance but I had to get myself close to the lead early so the guys kind of know I was there.  So I just kept pushing and kept firing at pins and kept really going right after it.  I got a really good momentum and obviously I was able to close it out with some birdies.   
 Q.  Birdie at 16, you followed that up with this one at 17 and another great up-and-down.  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: I put myself in a really tough spot from the tee.  But I knew that it was a great distance to that pin.  But it's not an easy pin, because you're playing downwind, so it's hard to stop it.  Out of the bunker, you can put a little more spin -- a great putt to give myself a good chance at 18.   
 Q.  The one on 18, to finish off the round, you had this look for eagle.  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: I had a great look to be honest.  Jim Furyk gave me a perfect, perfect read.  The ball just actually kept trickling a little bit left and a little bit short.  But I gave myself a good chance and that's kind of everything I could have done.   
 Q.  And tapping in for a birdie, that's never a bad thing on a Sunday?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: That's never a bad thing, and especially to have a chance to win a golf tournament, that's always good to do that.   
 Q.  What's the plan now?  Sit in the clubhouse and see what happens?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Exactly.  Keep my mind calm in case I have to go back.  See what happens.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT