ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
May 1, 2016
Jhonattan Vegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You're tied for the lead.  What's going on right now in your mind?  How are you able to stay patient right now when you know you're playing your best golf and you can wait to get out there and hit another shot?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: I'm just trying to stay awake right now.  It's been a really long day, with the weather being this way.  But you just got to find a way to stay patient here.  It doesn't look really good right now, so just got to find a way to relax and keep your mind calm.   
 Q.  Everybody else here is sleeping as well.  A pair of top-10 finishes this year, a little over a half a million dollars in earnings, playing out of the past champions category.  What's working so well for you this year to afford you this good golf that we have been seeing lately?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: To be honest, just doing everything simple.  Just going back to basics and just really keeping it simple.  I'm just going back to basics, just doing things simple, and just playing the game.   
 Q.  We never make golf complicated, do we?  No, no, never.  Are you a mudder?  Do you like playing in conditions where it's soft and wet out there.  You carry the golf ball a long way, but do you enjoy conditions like this?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: I grew up in a place that rained a lot, but the big thing here, just being able to hit the ball clean, especially when it's muddy and so wet like this.  So, I think I'm able to do that consistently and so we'll see.  It should be a fun finish after the turn around, whenever we get a chance to go out.   
 Q.  That's the million dollar question right now, the third round.  In the meantime, besides just trying to sleep, are you staying away from the buffet over there?  Because we see a lot of guys over there.  Lots of games and lots of food.  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: No, it's hard not to.  Especially that I enjoy eating, especially when I get close to the table a little too much.  That's what I have to do, to keep moving around and keep my body moving.  But I'm just taking it easy right now.   
 Q.  For all the delays, you're still smiling.  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: I'm just trying to stay awake.  It's been a really long wait.  But I'm in a good place right now, so there's a lot of things to be smiling about.  But I'm just really excited for the rain to stop and to get out and start playing some golf again.   
 Q.  I heard Rickie Fowler say on PGA TOUR radio that he's been up at five a.m. every day this week.  Has it been an early one for you every day, too?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Not quite.  I've done it a few times, but not every single day.  And that's kind of the hard part about staying awake around here, especially when it's raining like this.  But it's been a long week, obviously, for everyone and I think the staff has done a great job getting the course playable.  So we have to be appreciative of that.  But hopefully Mother Nature can help and we can get at least 54 holes in.   
 Q.  How does your mindset change when it looks like you're only going to play 54 and not 72?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: It changes a lot.  I guess you have less holes to play and being near the lead you have to make sure that you stay aggressive and start making some birdies, because anything could happen.   
 Q.  So do you scoreboard watch a little bit more?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Definitely.  Especially with what's happening today, the course is playing softer, playing easier, and so you really have to keep an eye on what's happening, so you can manage your game a little bit more.   
 Q.  This wait here, is it mentally challenging or how is it to wait here?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: It's draining when you have to sit in one place for so long.  Especially not knowing exactly what's going to happen.  You don't know if the storm is going to go by or stop raining or rain more or come back tomorrow.  It's a little bit draining, but you got to find a way to stay patient.  Especially with the tournament only 54 holes, the last, going out there with the right mindset is important.   
 Q.  When is the last time you won?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: 2011.   
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Winning is always big.  No matter when you do it.  So, yeah, I'm really working hard to get back to the winning circle and hopefully this will be it.   
 Q.  You played well, so you're probably going to have a good taste in your mouth no matter what happens when you leave here, but is this weather going to maybe make you think twice next time you're thinking to play in the Zurich or not?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: To be honest, nobody can predict Mother Nature.  I love New Orleans, I love coming here, it's such a great place to come and have a great time, enjoy a good golf tournament, so I'll definitely come back.   
 Q.  What's the key to mastering this whole situation, just kind of being able to relax and being able to turn it back on again when you get back out there?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: It's as simple as being patient.  That's the one key that you have to have.  Because you're waiting for so long that you let your mind wander around, what are we doing here, we should be done by now.  All of those things that come into your head, you cannot let that happen.  You just got to be prepared when the horn starts to play the last remaining holes.   
 Q.  Does it mess up -- are golfers superstitious?  Tiger would always wear power red on Sunday.  Does that mess anything up for you guys like superstition-wise?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: No, the only concern I have right now is that I have some white pants for tomorrow and those might not look good at the end of the day.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT