ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 29, 2016
Jhonattan Vegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. A lot of good up-and-downs, 3-under par 69, you're in great position, 11-under.
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Yeah, it was a solid round overall.  Conditions were really tough, especially the first I would say 10, 12 holes.  The wind was really blowing, so I knew that I had to play hard.  Nothing was going to come easy.  So that's kind of what I did.  I kept my mentality on one shot, and luckily I got a pretty decent round.
Q. A little unfortunate break there at 11 with the lost ball.
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Yeah, I just hit a bad shot.  I shouldn't have really gone that close to that tree, but it's part of the game, and I mean, I was proud to kind of get my head on the next shot and the next hole and bounce back with birdies after that.  I've just got to worry about one shot.
Q. I know you had the one three-putt at 18, but I thought you putted really well today.
JHONATTAN VEGAS: I did.  I did.  I've been putting really well all season, and that has been the key for the consistency of play.  So let's keep it up.
Q. What's been the key to success so far?
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Just to be patient.  Long day.  I played 30 and a half holes today.  I knew it was going to be an extremely long day, so I just kind of kept the mentality and hit one shot at a time and just played as hard as I can.  The course was a little easier this morning with the greens being soft, but the wind picked up in the afternoon, and this course was really hard.  So a little bit of scrambling on the second 18, but I'm fortunate to be where I am right now.
Q. Speaking of scrambling, the very last hole that ball stays up and you were able to salvage a par.  How big was that to get that in?
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Oh, it's just a huge break, obviously.  I pulled it off the tee.  I knew it the moment I hit it.  Just to finish with a solid par, you've got your head clear coming into tomorrow.  You don't have regrets.  But no, overall I'm just really happy where I am, and got a big weekend ahead.
Q. You've had two top 10s this year, four top 20s, I believe.  At what point have you been able to gauge that your game is headed in the right direction?
JHONATTAN VEGAS: I just feel like a lot of good things are happening with good results, with doing a lot of good things on the course.  Sometimes not getting the results that I want, but a lot of good things happening, so we're trending the right way, which is what we want.  We've got to keep the same mentality for the weekend.
Q. Nine hours at the office today, very humid day.  Physically how did you feel?
JHONATTAN VEGAS: I feel okay to be honest.  I really grew up in conditions like this, usually a little bit warmer maybe, which it didn't really bother me.  I'm used to kind of being out here in the heat.  I live in Houston, too, which gets pretty hot, so the heat doesn't really bother me, but it was a long day.  To stay at it and stay focused throughout all 30 and a half holes that I played today was pretty good.  But I'm going to have a good night of rest for sure.
Q. That second shot on 9, did you feel a little green when you saw it headed for the pin?
JHONATTAN VEGAS: On 9?  I just pulled it from the beginning.  I really wanted to go -- I had a perfect yardage for my 8-iron.  I knew that a good shot would really be perfect, so I just tried to be a little too aggressive, and I pulled it, and I was really fortunate that that ball stayed up to save a stroke there.
Q. The second shot looked like it was going to go in.
JHONATTAN VEGAS: It was, it was.  But it's part of the game.  I tried.  Some go in, some don't, and you've just got to worry about doing your best.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT