FRYS.COM OPEN
October 15, 2015
Jhonattan Vegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome Jhonattan Vegas.  8-under 64 in the first round to start your 2015/'16 season.  Talk about the round a little bit, what was going well, and then we'll have some questions.
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Well, obviously it was a great round.  I know that about it.  Especially coming after some pretty long weeks.
But, I mean, I had a great week off last week.  I had a chance to really work on my game a little bit with my golf teachers, and things started to click a little bit more.
You know, I had a great lesson with Dave Stockton yesterday on the putting green, which I think made a big difference.  I would say I was able to come out this morning and hit some great shots.  Starting off making three birdies in a row, get to 3-under early, and just keep hitting good shots after good shots.
Lucky to be sitting here with 8-under.
THE MODERATOR: You were outside the 150 before the Web.Com Tour finals.  Talk about what that meant to you, getting hot in the finals and securing your card for this year.
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Well, I didn't.  I didn't secure my card for this year.  I finished, what, 30 something?
THE MODERATOR: Oh, right outside.
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Yeah, so just playing on sponsor exemptions and past champions category, which is not a lot.
The good thing about the PGA TOUR is that it gives you chances, and you got to focus on playing golf.  That's all you got to focus on.  You got to take advantage of a week like this.  When you know you have to play well, you have to do your best.
THE MODERATOR: Okay.  Questions.
Q. (No microphone.)
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Well, it's a long story, but it all starts with my dad working in oil camps that we have manage in Venezuela where Americans used to go work in the oil business.  They build nine-hole golf courses.  My dad used to work in some of those camps and I was able to use some of those golf courses.  I picked it up from the beginning and I loved it.
Q. Are you having to wite letters to tournament organizers?  Is that a little hard to plan your schedule not knowing which ones you'll get into?
JHONATTAN VEGAS: It is hard.  Definitely have to, you know, make phone calls and write letters to try to get in some of these events.  But, you know, it only takes one.  Takes a good week to get the whole season start.  That's kind of what I have in mind.
I'm focusing on this week.  If I get in next week, great.  If I don't, I'm going to try my best to make it.  If I start here with a good week I could get the whole year rolling the way I want.
That's kind of what I'm focused on right now.
Q. (No microphone.)
JHONATTAN VEGAS: No, never.  I mean, because after those two weeks I miss the cut the following week in Torrey Pines -- I mean in Phoenix.  So it never feels easy.
But definitely proves that I belong here, that I can play with these guys, that I can win on tour.  But just things kept happening that kind of were setting me back, and obviously last year I didn't feel like I played that bad but just could not get anything going.
I think I'm through that.  I'm feeling healthy again.  You know, we just got to start fresh again.  I think this year is going to be perfect, because I know that I have to play well, and that puts some extra pressure, which sometimes we need it to play harder and to concentrate more.
So I think that's going to make a big difference this year.
Q. Could you talk about the eagle and maybe if there were one or two other shots that really stood out in your round today.
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Yeah, definitely.  Actually, starting off, I mean, I hit a great drive on 10 and hit a perfect 9-iron that landed probably six feet short of the hole and spin all the way back.
So when I knew I hit those two shots, I knew that I was on, that it could be a great round.  Hit a great shot on the following hole.  Hit two great shots.  Then hit another two great shots on the following hole and made another birdie.
So I knew that I was on.  I just had to keep the hammer down and not try to steer anything.
The eagle is definitely a bonus.  I know I had perfect yardage for that hole and I was definitely committed to hitting a great -iron on 5, and hit it about two feet.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT