THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 3, 2015
Jhonattan Vegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  What exactly worked for you out there?  JHONATTAN VEGAS: It was a solid round overall, from the beginning to the end.  I was able to hit -- I think I hit every single green, gave myself a lot of opportunities, able to make some, some that nearly went in, but overall a completely solid round from tee to green.   Q.  With your tee time being delayed, how vital was it that you were able to play 18 holes today without a suspension?  JHONATTAN VEGAS: Well, we got lucky that it was only 30 minutes that we were delayed, so it wasn't bad.  We definitely got the best part of the day.  I mean, it was calm, it was soft, so we were definitely able to take advantage of the course the way it was.   Q.  Would you say it was kind of good fortune that you were able to play in the morning yesterday when it was not that bad of weather and now today?  JHONATTAN VEGAS: Yeah, I definitely think we had the best part of the draw, so I was able to take advantage of it and play a couple of solid rounds.   Q.  There's four places in the Open at St. Andrews up for grabs this week.  Is that on your mind at all?  JHONATTAN VEGAS: Definitely.  I've never been able to play the Open Championship, so especially being in St. Andrews, that's even more special.  Definitely there, that's one of the goals for the week, so we're going to try to go get it.   Q.  What do you think is going to be important to keep this going through the weekend?  JHONATTAN VEGAS: I think the course is going to stay soft, so you're going to have to be really aggressive going into the greens, give yourself a few opportunities and try to roll some putts in.   Q.  It didn't seem to bother you because you putted extremely well.  JHONATTAN VEGAS: Well, they were a little bumpy, obviously.  They're soft and a lot of people walking on them.  It's making them a little soft.  I was able to roll some good putts and some that nearly went in, but overall it was a solid putting round.   Q.  How good does it feel to be the leader right now?  That could change, a whole bunch of guys are right there, and you made that last birdie.  JHONATTAN VEGAS: Yes, obviously there are a bunch of guys close, so I've just got to stick to what I'm doing, feeling great, playing great, so just got to keep going.   Q.  It does seem like your game is now trending upwards.  You're playing really well.  JHONATTAN VEGAS: Yes, I feel like I'm playing great.  I just haven't been able to put it all together.  But I'm staying patient and working really hard to make it happen, and it's coming together.   Q.  Are you going to the concert tonight or are you going to relax?  JHONATTAN VEGAS: I'm going to relax.  It was a long day of walking out there and wet fairways, so I'm just going to take it easy and get ready for tomorrow.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT