THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 9, 2015
Jhonattan Vegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Not a bad round for moving day, get yourself up higher on the leaderboard.  Just talk about your day.JHONATTAN VEGAS: Yeah, I mean, it was crazy.  It was a crazy day, actually.  You know, thinking about 27 holes ago, I was 5-over par going to the back nine yesterday, and to look at myself being tied for third right now, which is still super early, but it's great.  It's the game, and things turn around, and I'm super happy.Q. What changed?JHONATTAN VEGAS: You know, I just made a few putts, simple as that.  I was able to make putts on the back nine yesterday, and I just kind of kept on going today.  The course was absolutely perfect this morning, and I took advantage of the conditions.Q. You birdied half your holes today.  How aggressive were you knowing you were eight back to start the day?JHONATTAN VEGAS: I was actually watching Golf Channel yesterday, and I knew that the past four years, I guess, the winning score has been around 13-under, so I knew that I had to go out and shoot somewhere 6-, 7-under to try to give myself a chance tomorrow.  You know, I mean, I just went at it, and luckily it happened.Q. How much did the change in the wind direction affect play out there today?JHONATTAN VEGAS: The wind is pretty similar.  I mean, it's a fraction more from the east, I guess, but it's pretty similar.  The conditions are playing pretty similar.  You're going to see some good scores today.Q. Apparently hole locations are usually easier on Saturday.  Going off early, the course plays a little easier on Saturday, so tomorrow we're going to be in a situation where it's going to be Sunday, you're going to be part of the last groupings.  How will you approach it differently than you did today, if at all?JHONATTAN VEGAS: Well, I mean, you've got to go out with the mentality to win the golf tournament.  Simple as that, and give yourself the best opportunities.  I don't have anything to lose, so I'm just going to go out and have fun and try to shoot another good round.Q. Does it help knowing you had this round today, going out tomorrow, having all this confidence?JHONATTAN VEGAS: Sure, absolutely.  From what happened the back nine yesterday to today, I mean, it's -- I mean, it gives you a huge boost of confidence.  About three years ago I finished seventh here, was kind of in a similar situation that I'm going to be on Sunday, so it's a good feeling.  The course, I feel like I play well enough, and if I keep doing the things that I'm doing, it should be a fun Sunday.Q. How big was that up-and-down on 18?JHONATTAN VEGAS: It was huge.  Every single stroke going into Sunday counts, and you don't want to give anything away.  That was one of my huge mentality going into 18, which is a tough hole.  I just didn't want to give anything away.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT