FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
February 6, 2015
Jhonattan Vegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  They weren't bad drives, but just missed the fairway by a little bit.  JHONATTAN VEGAS: Yeah, I just felt a little bit off tempo all day with the tee shots.  And I hit two fairways all day, which is not good out here.  But I was able to hit it well and put together a good round which is always great here.   Q.  How much different is the 67 yesterday and a 69 today?  It was a big difference, wasn't it?  JHONATTAN VEGAS: Oh, it was a big difference, for sure.  Yesterday it was a really good round.  I played pretty much from the beginning to the end great golf.  Today it was a little up-and-down, but still a good round.   Q.  You get to go back on those greens that are so smooth.  They were a little bumpy out on the North.  You like that course a little bit more, the South, you got your length and you can be more aggressive and hit some high iron shots in there.  JHONATTAN VEGAS: For sure.  I feel that the South Course kind of fits my game great.  I felt comfortable here.  So it's going to be a fun weekend.   Q.  Was it 11 that you played all day long just until the very end?  JHONATTAN VEGAS: Yeah, it was good.  Like I said, I'm just happy to be where I'm at it and it should be a fun weekend here.   Q.  Round No. 1 for Jonathan was on the South Course, he shot a very nice 67 on the difficult South Course, and today on the North Course and you shot a respectable 69.  But considering how you played in round one of the South, are you satisfied with how you played on the North?  JHONATTAN VEGAS: Definitely, it was a solid round overall.  I didn't really quite hit my tee shots that great, I only hit two fairways, which is not good.  But to put together a 69 is always a positive just to kind of keep the momentum going for the weekend.   Q.  We haven't seen you on a lot of leaderboards in the last year, for good reason, you've had, you've been battling back from shoulder surgery in February of 2013.  In your mind, when did you feel like you were healthy enough to hit the shots that you wanted to hit?  JHONATTAN VEGAS: I would say that it was kind of late last year when I felt like I could go after the shots.   Q.  So this is a year and a half later?  JHONATTAN VEGAS: Almost, yeah.  Especially the shoulder.  It's such a delicate part of your body, you don't want to put too much stress. My game is a powerful game and I go after shots and not having the power doesn't really give you the confidence that you need.  But I'm healthy now, thank God, and I'm just having a good time again.   Q.  You nearly won this event in 2011.  Do you draw on that experience?  Does that energize you as you move forward through the weekend now?  JHONATTAN VEGAS: Oh, for sure.  I've had a little success here at Torrey Pines.  Going back to junior golf playing the Junior Worlds here and almost winning that and almost winning four years ago. So I a lot of good memories of this place and it suits my game great and I love it.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT