FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
February 5, 2015
Jhonattan Vegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  5-under 67 in the first round.  You got to be pretty pleased with that?  JHONATTAN VEGAS: Oh, yeah, definitely.  It was a great round.  From the beginning all the way to the end.  I just feel great at this course for some reason.  It's a good feeling coming back.   Q.  You had four birdies in a row there.  JHONATTAN VEGAS: Yeah, definitely.  It was one hole out from the bunker, some good putts, it's kind of good getting a good momentum going here.   Q.  You're only two back of the leader but you got the tougher course out of the way.  Do you think that you have an advantage at that?  JHONATTAN VEGAS: Not an advantage, just you have to play good on that course, it's not an easy course.  Easier definitely than this one, but it's good to post a solid round and on a difficult course, but we got a lot of golf ahead, so we can't worry about one course or the other, we just got to keep playing good.   Q.  Do you like these kind of greens of poa annua?  JHONATTAN VEGAS: I just feel comfortable here.  Simple as that.  Going back to junior golf, playing Junior World here, I had success, I almost won here fours four years ago, so good memories coming back to Torrey Pines.  I guess I'm two shots back but it was definitely great to post a phenomenal round on the South Course.  That makes the North course a little bit easier.  It's good momentum getting that started the way I did and it definitely makes the weekend a little bit easier.   Q.  What about that stretch of four birdies you had there.  JHONATTAN VEGAS: Just completely feeling it.  I hit a great putt, actually miss the a 3-footer on 10 for birdie.  Made a great putt on 11.  Holed it from the bunker on 12.  Just kind of fairly easy birdie on 13 and I hit it about three feet on 14. So, just I really just had everything going, putting going, short game going, ball striking has been pretty good.  So it's a good start.   Q.  Fair to say you were playing in a fog?  JHONATTAN VEGAS: It's a little difficult, to be honest.  We just got -- the good thing was we got a little practice earlier in the week playing in the fog, so but it's definitely tough playing until the fog.   Q.  How much was that two and a half hour delay affect your game?  JHONATTAN VEGAS: Well, you just have to stay patient.  I wouldn't say that it affects it, but it's a matter of staying patient and here it's tough with the fog because you don't know when it's coming or going.  So you got to stay as patient as you can and get back whenever you're ready.   Q.  What do you like about this place?  JHONATTAN VEGAS: I just feel good in general.  I think it's a course that suits my game really well.  Going back to junior golf, I had success here playing the Junior World and almost won here four years ago, so it's just a place that I feel comfortable and it suits my game really well.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT