JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 13, 2014
Jhonattan Vegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about your 19‑under.   
JHONATTAN VEGAS:   Yeah, it was incredible to be honest.   It's kind of what I've been waiting for all year, and I was able to do it this whole week, play solid golf along with Zach Johnson, who had a great round, too, so it was great to feed off each other again, so it was fun.   It was a fun round, and I'm glad I made birdie on 18.   That was even more special.  
   
 Q.   What was clicking for you this weekend?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS:   I was just able to putt really well.   I think from the beginning to the end I was just solid on the greens, and I mean, I didn't feel like I hit the ball that great, but I was able to really putt well, which at the end of the day is what makes the difference here on TOUR.  
   
 Q.   What was it like playing with Zach?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS:   It's always fun playing with Zach.   He's such a great guy, especially being here from this area, the crowd is always on him, so that made the green even more fun and good energy, so I enjoyed it.  
   
 Q.   Did you feel like you needed a week like this to get back to form?   This was a great week for you?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS:   It was, absolutely.   I feel like I've been playing this good for a long time and just haven't been able to put it all together, and it's finally good that it happened.   
   
 Q.   On 18 you're in the sand.   Were you thinking about going for the pin the entire time?   Did you think about a safer shot or did you have to go for it?   
JHONATTAN VEGAS:   No, I mean, I was looking at the back right side of that hole, and it was a really tough lie where I was, and I was able just to put the shot on it that I wanted, and it was really perfect.  
   
 Q.   You needed a big tournament like this to get yourself back hopefully qualified.   What do you need to do the next few weeks, months or so?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS:   I've just got to keep playing the way I've been playing, just playing hard, working hard.   I feel like my game is in a good position right now for a good finish to the end.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT