JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 12, 2014
Jhonattan Vegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MARK STEVENS:   Like to welcome Jhonattan, great round here in the third round of the John Deere Classic.   Talk about what was going well and what was going on in the group with Summerhays and Scott Brown?   You guys combined were 20‑something under par today. 
JHONATTAN VEGAS:   It was just a good day, as simple as that.   I started playing with three birdies in a row.   Danny made that phenomenal eagle on No. 5, and we knew it was going to be one of those special days in the group.   The course is different.   Playing the easiest it's been playing all week, a lot softer.   So we knew we had to go pretty low.   We just kept firing at each other and making a lot of birdies.   We were fortunate to make a lot of birdies today.

Q.   What was everybody's reaction to Danny's eagle on 5? 
JHONATTAN VEGAS:   I mean, we couldn't believe it, simple as that.   Just to think that a flight into the ShotLink stand and going through the rough with enough speed to barely get on the green, and then take off a break to go in.   That's the kind of shot that you could try a million times and it would never happen in, so it was kind of fun to be part of it.   Like I said, I told him it was the best eagle I've ever seen.

Q.   Did that kind of lighten the mood for the group, and make it a real loose round for you guys? 
JHONATTAN VEGAS:   It was part of it.   I think I made three birdies the first five holes.   I think Danny made two or three and Scott made two or three and two eagles.   So we already had the day going with a lot of birdies and eagles.   So we knew we had it going, but that made it even more special.   It made it more loose.   We were having a lot of fun as a group.   So it was good.

Q.   When you come out with lift, clean and place rules in effect, ball in your hand, do you know you have to go low or do you think you have to go low? 
JHONATTAN VEGAS:   Not necessarily.   It definitely gives you an advantage on some occasions, but I mean the course is just playing soft, so you can fire at every single pin and the ball will stop there.   So that makes it a lot easier.   So I'm assuming everyone is really going low today, so that's what we did.

Q.   You've got to earn a bunch of money in the next tournament or two to keep your card.   How much pressure is on you? 
JHONATTAN VEGAS:   I just play golf.   Whatever happens, happens, to be honest.   It's a fun sport.   That's kind of the way I take it.   I just try my best every single day out here.   If it works, fine.   If it doesn't, we've got to go to the range and go talk to my coach about making things right.   But I'm just focused on playing one round at a time.   If at the end of the year I've made it, perfect, which is the goal.   If I didn't, I have to find a way to get back here.   So I've just got to keep playing golf.

Q.   Was it kind of a Q‑school feel for you in the sense that you could seal it tomorrow? 
JHONATTAN VEGAS:   Not necessarily.   I'm going to try to win a golf tournament tomorrow.   That is going to be the mentality.   I'm going to play to win.   That is going to be the mentality tomorrow.

Q.   Has it been a while since you've been in this position? 
JHONATTAN VEGAS:   I was in the last group at Honda earlier this year, but it's been a while.   Last year I was completely off the TOUR, and it's taken longer for me to get back into consistently playing well.   But I feel like I'm closer and closer every single week.   I've just got to stay patient with myself and know that the good golf is there.

Q.   What was the injury? 
JHONATTAN VEGAS:   Shoulder.   A bunch of little ten Dons that were falling apart, and they had to put them together.
MARK STEVENS:   Surgery in March, right? 
JHONATTAN VEGAS:   Surgery last February.   So it's been a year and a half or so.

Q.   How long did it take you to feel good again? 
JHONATTAN VEGAS:   It took a little while.   I was hitting balls at five months, I think, but that's a long ways from playing on the PGA TOUR.   It's taken a little bit longer for me to put all of that behind and just focus on hitting one shot.   But I feel like things are coming back naturally, and that's kind of where I want to get to.   Not think about my muscle again or know that the shoulder is broken.   I've got to get back to just moving the way I've always done it.

Q.   When was the last time you played pain free?   Are you pain free yet? 
JHONATTAN VEGAS:   I'm completely pain free.   But when you play pretty much a full system like I did in 2012 with an injury, trying not to have surgery, you develop bad patterns and all that stuff.   That is the kind of stuff that you have to get out of your head and know that you can swing at shots and you can swing from the rough and all this stuff and nothing will happen.   I think it takes a little longer to get it out of your head.   But I think I'm past that, and I've just got to focus on hitting shots and playing good golf.

Q.   Is your swing a little different from what it was preinjury? 
JHONATTAN VEGAS:   No, it's a lot better, actually.   It's a lot, a lot better.   The stats show that a little bit.   The putting has been a little bit off, but it's coming around.

Q.   Which shoulder? 
JHONATTAN VEGAS:   Left.   Yeah, which is even worse.

Q.   Since you're Mr.Vegas, what is the best tomorrow? 
JHONATTAN VEGAS:   What is the best tomorrow?   Bet on Germany, if you can. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT