THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 17, 2019
Jhonattan Vegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Great performance at THE PLAYERS, the highlight obviously 17 today.  Just talk about that a little bit.  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Oh, absolutely mind blowing, simple as that.  I mean, it never crossed my mind that I was going to make such a long putt on such a phenomenal hole.  But it's one of those things, that's kind of what you play golf for, to be in those kind of situations.  Like I said, playing the 17 hole at TPC PLAYERS with that crowd, it just doesn't get any better.  Obviously the type of memories that last a lifetime and something that I'll remember for forever.   
 Q.  There was some hope there, as we were doing some previous interviews, and we just learned that Jim holed that putt so it's still a really strong finish for you, you must be very happy with that performance.  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Oh, I mean super happy.  We're talking about one of the greatest fields in golf.  To have a chance to win here it's always amazing.  I mean, I feel like I'm at a point in my career where I need to start contending a little bit more in these type of bigger events and I've been preparing myself for it, so thank God it's kind of moving the right direction, hopefully I can have one of these soon.   
 Q.  When you got here this morning did you think you might have a round like this in you?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Well I knew the course wasn't playing easy, but I saw Emiliano Grillo was really going low so I knew low scores were there, I just had to be patient.  Obviously I played really good golf today.  Made a few good putts for par, really wish I would have had a couple of short ones for birdie but at the end of the day that's golf, you got to take what it gives you and deal with the rest.   
 Q.  What do you make of what Jimmy's doing out there at age 48?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Amazing.  I was talking to Tiger about him yesterday in the locker room and it's incredible.  I mean, a guy at 48, contending at this course, with these type of conditions.  It's not like the ball's rolling forever and it's playing short, it's playing long and tough and it shows the character of Jim Furyk and that's kind of what he's done all through his career and happy for him.   
 Q.  In a Presidents Cup year and you mentioned Emiliano Grillo.  When you see him and Abraham up there and others does that give you some inspiration?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Yeah, definitely.  I mean, obviously, like I said earlier this year, the Presidents Cup is my No. 1 goal this year.  One, after playing in 2017 I had such an amazing experience there that I really wanted to do it again.  And two, playing for Ernie Els it just doesn't get any better.  He's one of the guys that I have admired throughout the years, as much as he's done for international golf, just to be a part of that team would be a dream come true.   
 Q.  Quickly on that putt on 17, had you, in a practice round or any other time, taken one from over there?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Yeah, yes, obviously we hit putts, we know how tough 17 plays and obviously that's a safe zone and it's easy -- especially with this wind, in and from the right -- easy to hit it there on the left.  So you have an idea what the putt does, but it still, you still have to do it.  I grabbed the putter and hit it late on Sunday here.  So magic, like I said, I mean if I tried it a thousand times I wouldn't even come close to making it, but I'm pretty happy that it happened today.   
 Q.  Talking about the last putt on 18.  Is it -- what happened there and kind of look back at that now.  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Nothing.  I mean, to be honest, I feel like I probably over read it, through all the years I remember that putt breaking a lot.  I have the wind from the left side, played a little bit too much break, hit it good, where I was looking, and it just never broke.   
 Q.  I know there were a couple of little putts you'd like to have back, but tell me about the big putt at 17.  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Man, to be honest, I saw Eddie make it right in front of me.  You know, obviously it wasn't the putt that I didn't want to leave myself, but I knew that it was doable.  Like I said, I saw it right in front of my eyes, and I guess we picked the right line with the right speed, and the ball went in.  Obviously I would have been super happy to two-putt from there, but it was definitely a big bonus.   
 Q.  I don't know what the number is going to end up eventually being, but you had a chance to post a pretty special one.  What were you thinking those last couple holes trying to get something on the board and in the house?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Well, I knew if I would have got to 15, it would have been a phenomenal number.  Obviously I had a phenomenal chance at 18, overplayed the break and just didn't go in.  But obviously happy with the round, and we just have to wait and see what happens.   
 Q.  What does this do in terms of just a jumping point for you?  It has to be a really big springboard for you?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Obviously.  I feel like I was close the past couple of weeks at Honda and Arnold Palmer, didn't quite happen to me over the weekend, and obviously had a low start this week and things started rolling a little bit better as I went, but obviously it's a confidence booster knowing that we're heading in the right direction, and we've just got to keep the pedal down.   
 Q.  We've heard a lot of loud roars over the years, it's a great venue for fans.  What was it like on 17 for you being the one causing the noise?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Unbelievable, man.  Absolutely unbelievable.  To choose that hole and make such an incredible putt with the tournament on the line, you know, it couldn't be any more special.  Like I said, I was extremely happy to two-putt from there, and the moment I saw that ball anywhere close to going in, I got extremely excited.  That's kind of what that hole gives you, and that's why this is such an amazing place.   
 Q.  I know you're disappointed that you didn't get one more at the last.  Where do you think 14-under will sit here in about 45 minutes?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Well, I mean, the course is not playing easy.  I mean, I don't know.  Like I said, golf is a crazy game.  I mean, you have to hope the best, so at least I hope to be in a playoff at the end of the day, but obviously we have phenomenal guys behind playing golf, so we'll see.  We just have to hope for the best.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT