THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 1, 2014
Jhonattan Vegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about a spectacular round.  
JHONATTAN VEGAS:   It was great, especially the back nine for me.   You know when you have to really hit it well ‑‑ and I did that and made some good putts.   Definitely not happy to make bogey on 18, but you know, I feel like I put myself in contention for tomorrow, and you know, we'll see tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   24 putts, what was your key to success on the greens?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS:   I've just been working a lot with Dave Stockton on my putting.   I feel like a different guy on the greens, so hopefully we can continue that for tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   You've made a lot of cuts coming in but now in contention, I know you've been wait to go get back into this moment.   What was today like, did it feel good for you?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS:   It felt phenomenal, especially taking a whole year after last year from an injury and making a lot of cuts but not quite getting close to the leaders.   It was good.   The adrenaline was crushing and it was fun.   It's fun feeling this way and that's why I'm here.   
   
 Q.   Success in the Bear Trap, 2‑under on 15, 16 and 17, apparently played easy for you today?   
JHONATTAN VEGAS:   Not really.   It never plays easy.   I was just one of those lucky with unto really hit good shots on those holes.   I really made sure I was concentrated and focused on hitting those shots.   I hit the ball great on the back nine and that's one of the reasons why I got so close to making a birdie on every single hole in the Bear Trap.  
   
 Q.   A lot of golf before you get to the Bear Trap but when do you start thinking about those three holes?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS:   I think you do after you hit your tee shot on 13 that you're walking by 15 green, you're kind of looking to the right to see where the pin is and start feeling the shot.   
So that's kind of what I talked to my caddie about this week is to start gauging the wind and everything and that's what we've done so far.   
   
 Q.   Just start off talking by what was going good out there for you today.   
JHONATTAN VEGAS:   It was a great round obviously.   Hit the ball really well.   I was able to make a lot of putts.   That's definitely the key here.   But I put myself in good position to make good putts, especially the way the course is playing right now.   This wind is really tricky, and you know, I just was able to hit really good shots and make good putts.   
   
 Q.   Did you feel like your game was pointed in this direction, to be able to contend on Sunday again?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS:   I think so.   What I've been feeling the past few tournaments, L.A. and the tournament before that, I was always in the Top‑20 going into the weekend, having bad weekends, so you know, I just feel like I was close to really playing good golf and it showed up today so going to try to do that again tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   How have the last couple years been for you?   
JHONATTAN VEGAS:   Especially the last year, just the last two years actually, just being hurt is definitely not the best feeling, especially trying to play against the best players in the world.   It's been a little frustrating knowing that I could play better than what I was playing.   It's good to be healthy again.   I'm not quite feeling 100 percent yet but getting super close and excited to be back and feeling better.  
   
 Q.   Do you know how you hurtyour shoulder?   
JHONATTAN VEGAS:   Just playing, working out, just one of those things that happened and just kept getting worst more I played here on TOUR.   I wasn't myself on the golf course and that's why I decided to stop.   
   
 Q.   When you won so quickly, did it put you in a situation where you maybe weren't ready for some of the things that came with the win and all the attention you were getting?   
JHONATTAN VEGAS:   Not really.   I feel absolutely great.   As a golfer, that's kind of what you want, and you prepare yourself for it.   I was ready.   Just like I said, it was bad timing for my injury, especially just having the first year and a fairly decent second year.   But I was ready and I'm ready to be here, too.   
   
 Q.   When did it become a problem?   
JHONATTAN VEGAS:   It just became a problem to be honest, just kind of my second year.   It just kept getting worse and worse the more I played, especially after winning the first year, you play Kapalua, you play a lot of good tournaments, so you're playing a lot.   I played in more than probably what I should have done, so just kept getting weaker the more I played.  
   
 Q.   Did it take them a while to figure out what it was?   
JHONATTAN VEGAS:   No, it took them a long, long time.     That's kind of when I was frustrated.   It was one of those things that I got so many MRIs done, they couldn't really figure out what it was.   I was lucky enough to see this doctor, Richard Hawkins, in South Carolina.   He did some ultrasounds, saw some tendons moving.   But when he went in, he saw that a few tendons were really damaged and I was super happy to come out of that surgery.   
   
 Q.   Can you get into Doral next week?   
JHONATTAN VEGAS:   I don't know if winning gets in‑‑ even if I win, I don't get in.   But it's good to feel in contention.   Whatever it is, you know, it's always a good feeling, that adrenaline rush, and especially coming into the last holes.   We're going to try to have another great day tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   I've remember seen you down there at Doral and you were like a rock star, all the kids were chanting your name and screaming.   What was that like for you?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS:   It was fun.   The thing about Doral is that there's a lot of Venezuelans that live there, so that's almost like a home week for me.   I had a great support when I was there.   It was a little crazy at times but it was fun.   It was a lot of fun.   That's how we are, Venezuelans, we like to have a good time and that week was even crazier for me.  
   
 Q.   How much more difficult was the course playing today than the last two days?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS:   Well, the wind blew a lot harder today and from a different direction.   Especially the last four or five holes, the wind was completely different, so that made the course a lot tougher.   
You know, I mean, when you start your round, you're thinking about those last five holes playing into the wind, so when you try to get a good round going to get those few holes and try to manage your way around them‑‑ but it's playing a few shots harder definitely.   
   
 Q.   Having won a PGA TOUR event, how much will that help tomorrow?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS:   It will help a lot.   I mean, I'm not going to be thinking about that I'm going to win for the first time.   So I'm just going to go and try to play good golf and whatever happens, happens.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT