FRYS.COM OPEN
October 12, 2012
Jhonattan Vegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Great approach shot there on 9.   That was tap‑in birdie. 
JHONATTAN VEGAS:   Yeah, good way to finish the round.   A little bit of an up and down round, but good solid round to finish.   Excited they way I am playing, and good position for the weekend.

Q.   And you were close but no cigar in the top 125.   How does it feel to sit at 126 just missing the card by a single shot?
JHONATTAN VEGAS:   Well, it's never good to finish one spot out, but it's something you got to deal with out here.   Just got to try to put that behind and focus on the next tournament.

Q.   And that's what's happening for you.   You slumped there for a while, but it seems like you're coming into your own right now. 
JHONATTAN VEGAS:   It's pretty good.   Just got to keep working.   This game is not as easy as people think.   Just got to keep working and doing your thing.

Q.   So did you see the finish line on Sunday with Jhon Vegas on top of the leaderboard?
JHONATTAN VEGAS:   That's when we hope.   I mean, that's why we came here.   I'm playing great, so hopefully we can keep it up for two more days. 

Q.   You finished two points out of the playoffs.   Is there any motivation the last few weeks?   Are you going out really refocused and going after it? 
JHONATTAN VEGAS:   Well, I mean, it does.   It kind of makes you a little angry definitely.   I mean, missing the card for two points.   I mean, if you think about all the shots that you hit that year up until that point, just to come out short two points, it really makes you angry.
It's something that we have to deal with.   It happens.   Somebody had to finish 126th.   Unfortunately it was me. 
But I know that I am better than that, and I know I have to bring my game to a higher level.   So I just start working a little bit harder, and I feel like I'm playing a lot better right now.

Q.   Seem to have good vibes in California.   Got your first win in Palm Springs?
JHONATTAN VEGAS:   That's kind of what I been talking to a lot of friends about.   I like this state, you know.   First win here, almost won in San Diego last year.   So, I mean, we got to try get a couple more in California. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT