FRYS.COM OPEN
October 11, 2012
Jhonattan Vegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  DOUG MILNE:   Jhonattan, thanks for joining us for a few minutes.   6‑under 65 in round one today.   Just a couple opening comments about the rounds, how you're feeling, and then we'll take a few questions.  
JHONATTAN VEGAS:   It was definitely a phenomenal round today.   It was really the best solid round I've had all year from the beginning to the end from birdieing the 5th hole and birdieing two of the last three.   
So it was great.   Been battling a little bit of a shoulder injury, which is kind of keeping my golf swing (indiscernible.)  
But it's good.   It was an easy day.   Wind blowing not as much as some of the other days, so stroked it really well and made some good putts and had a good round.  
DOUG MILNE:   Okay.   I looked at your schedule, and it looks like you've only played five or six times ‑‑ did I look at it wrong‑‑ since Wyndham maybe?   
JHONATTAN VEGAS:   Since Wyndham I've played Vegas, which was last week.   So I took those, what, five weeks off.  
DOUG MILNE:   Five weeks, yeah.   What did you do in the off time?   
JHONATTAN VEGAS:   Well, out of those five I took four off trying to let the shoulder heal and recover.   It's feeling better.   Not quite as good as I'd like it, but, I mean, definitely that's helped.   That's kind of where I am.  
I think I pushed it a little too hard at the beginning of the year and I was still behind the eight ball the whole time.   So it's good to get a few weeks off, get some rest, and get recovered.   The rest is really helping right now.  
DOUG MILNE:   With that we'll take a few questions.   
   
 Q.   You said you had a good round the whole way, but when you had that bogey kind of late in the round and then you come back with two birdies in row, that's got to help your confidence.   
JHONATTAN VEGAS:   It does.   I mean, I knew when I made the bogey, wasn't really (indiscernible) that bogey.   I had an iron into a par‑5 and I paid the price.   
But I knew that I didn't hit it really well the whole time, and I knew I had some great opportunities left to go if I just stay calm and hit the same shots I been hitting.  
I did that and hit a great 5‑iron on 16 to eight, nine, ten feet.   Then I had another 15‑ to 20‑footer on 17 that I made.   So those made the difference today.   
You know, the conditions are tough out there.   You got to stay super calm.   I mean, you get a little bit rowdy you can make a lot of bogeys out here.   
   
 Q.   Talk about your shoulder injury.   When did it flare up and how does it inhibit your and how far along are you in feeling like you can play close to 100%?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS:   Well, it's something that I've had ever since my last year in college.   I hurt it working out.   For some reason I haven't really been able to heal it completely.   
The good thing is that I am able to play; I just feel that my golf swing is not the same.   I can't turn to the ball as good as I used to.  
I mean, I'm second year here and trying to play 35 weeks a year.   I mean, that's a lot of golf ‑‑ plus the practices.   I haven't really rested it enough to let it heal.  
I feel like I'm getting better, but it's not 100%.   That's for sure.   Going to work on that in the off‑season.  
   
 Q.   Which shoulder is it?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS:   Left shoulder.   
   
 Q.   You came on last year with such a big bang.   How has the second year been?   You mentioned how long the season is.   The length, is that something you have to get used to?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS:   I set bar really high for myself after winning the first year.   When you win the first year on tour you think you're going to win every year, and it doesn't work that way.   You know how hard it is to win out here.  
But to be honest it's been kind of a mediocre year.   I feel like I haven't been 100% with any part of my game.   Putting has been bad.   Ball‑striking hasn't been good with just my strength.   When you combine that, you won't get that many good results.   
I still feel like I'm just moving in the right place.  
   
 Q.   Do you happen to notice that other than cheers you might have gotten, some of the biggest cheers were from people watching TV.   Were you aware people were watching the Giants' game or you guys?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS:   No.   To be honest, I didn't notice that.   I was just really focused on playing golf.   I wish somebody would tell me, because I love baseball.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT