HP BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 17, 2012
Jhonattan Vegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Can you talk about your round, 3‑under; at one point it was 5‑under.   Talk about that. 
JHONATTAN VEGAS:   It was a phenomenal start, shooting 3‑under is great for this course.   I don't think it's playing easy.   There are definitely opportunities out there.   I had a phenomenal start, made four birdies the first five holes.   Could have been a great round, just a few loose tee shots that didn't let me take advantage of them on the par 5s and some of the short holes.   I'm pleased with my game and will fix those mistakes. 

Q.   Tell us about 16, 17, 18. 
JHONATTAN VEGAS:   Yeah, like I said, I hit a horrible tee shot on 16, which is a hole you want to take advantage of, made a bogey, a little bit unplayable.   Chipped in on 17, and then I tried to hit a fade and hit it in the water on 18.   Those are the things that I feel I have to get better at and it should be a great weekend. 

Q.   How challenging of a course is this? 
JHONATTAN VEGAS:   It is challenging, because the pins are not in easy positions and the wind‑‑ it's not much but it's there, so you have to be accurate with your shots coming into the greens, because some of the greens will not treat you nice if you hit it in the wrong spot.   Like I say, 5‑under is winning so far, so it's not a phenomenal score, it's a good score, but it's not like 9‑under or something. 

Q.   Would you prefer the wind to blow a little more? 
JHONATTAN VEGAS:   I do prefer the wind, because I went to school in Austin and spent five years there going to the University of Texas, so I got used to this kind of weather.   Hopefully it will stay like this or blow more. 

Q.   And hotter? 
JHONATTAN VEGAS:   I don't mind it. 

Q.   How special because you went to the University of Texas, how special would it be? 
JHONATTAN VEGAS:   Every win is special, I would say, but winning in Texas‑‑ I live in Texas, and Texas is like my home country now and to put it that way, it would be really fun! 
So we're going to give it a try.
THE MODERATOR:   Jhon, thank you, sir.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT