THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 12, 2012
Jhonattan Vegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about your heading into the final round?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS:   I'm in a great place.   I'm probably going to be four or five back for tomorrow.   I feel like I'm in a good position because I don't feel like the leaders are going to go too far ahead; so, within range, which is good, which is kind of what you want to have going into Sunday.  
   
 Q.   Talk about the scene on 16, 17 and 18 and your shot on 17, in particular?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS:   Well, there's no feeling like getting into the 16th green and seeing the crowd and seeing 17 on the right.   It's kind of fun, you can start feeling all the nerves and just the positive energy just happening right there.   
So I decided to be a little more aggressive today on the 17th hole and hit a really good wedge shot to three feet.   
   
 Q.   Things went well today; how do you prepare yourself for the final round?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS:   Just got to keep doing what I've been doing, and I just go do a little bit of practice, just go to the hotel with a good feeling, and just try to bring the same energy tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   When did you feel like you started really making a move today?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS:   I mean, when I started, as simple as that.   I birdied my first hole and eagled second one.   3‑under after two holes, and I knew that if I could continue that round, that I was going to be in a good position going into Sunday.   
Things slowed down a little bit, but I was able to birdie two of the last three holes, which is good.   You know, hopefully I'll be three or four shots back and have a better chance tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Just briefly talk about the chip‑in on 2.   
JHONATTAN VEGAS:   It wasn't an easy chip, because if you hit it too hard, you're going to hit it over the green.   I saw Jim Furyk do that, so I mean, I was just trying to be a little protective.   But I just had a good feeling about that shot.   Just read it perfectly and executed it perfectly and luckily it went in.  
   
 Q.   Tiger and Phil came through before you, and they talk about respecting this course and how you have to take what it gives you.   Can you just talk about what it's like getting around here playing 18 holes on this kind of a track and this kind of weather?   
JHONATTAN VEGAS:   Well, you've got to realize and know that you're going to miss shots here, as simple as that.   You're going to have to fight for your pars.   As long as you know that and you're willing to work hard to get it done, you can really build good rounds around here, because there are holes here that you can take advantage of.   
That's my mentality for the week.   Last year I tried to be a little too aggressive on the course, and the course kind of spanked me a little bit.   This year we are trying to do things a little bit different with a 2‑iron, trying to hit it more in play and give myself more chances.   That's kind of what I've been doing so far.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT