JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 2, 2011
Jhonattan Vegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Jhonattan, you dropped a long putt at the very first hole. There's nothing better than starting that way. It really gave you some momentum early on today.  
 JHONATTAN VEGAS: You know what, after that birdie putt I was feeling really good. I felt like I played a great round today. I felt like I played okay, but it was -- I didn't really give myself enough opportunities to really go low, and I knew I had to go low because these guys were absolutely playing great.   
 But it's a good tournament. You gotta take the positives. You know, I mean I'm still a rookie, having a chance to win on Sunday was good, and performing pretty decent on Sunday, so it was good.  
  
  Q. You made a long one at 6 and then another long one at 9. Did you ever feel you were in it, that you were right there and one move one way or the other and you could be right there?  
 JHONATTAN VEGAS: You know, after the putt on 9 I knew I had to birdie at least one of the next three holes because I knew I had 13 and 15 and 16 coming, that those were great birdie opportunities, and if I could birdie one of those and then birdie those three then I could post 2-under 21-under. But like I said, it wasn't for me and hopefully next time.  
  
  Q. Thought you had the eagle at 15 from off the edge of the green there when you rolled that putt up.  
 JHONATTAN VEGAS: You know what, that was one of my last chances that I knew that I had, and I had to go for it. Hit it a little too hard, unfortunately, on the putt, and you know, just didn't go my way, I guess. But you know, like I said, it was fun to be in the hunt, fun to be playing good. So I just gotta keep it going now.  
  
  Q. Some day that Timberlake trophy is going to have the name Vegas in a second time besides Las Vegas on it.  
 JHONATTAN VEGAS: You know what, it's going to be one of my priorities. You know, I just gotta -- like I said, I just enjoyed the week here in Vegas. It was awesome. I just can't wait to be back playing again, and you know, I'll be here next time they have the tournament here.  
  
  Q. Frys next week or are you going home?  
 JHONATTAN VEGAS: I'm actually going home, taking a couple of weeks off. I need to relax for a little bit, and then I'm going overseas for four weeks, so it should be fun. I'm really excited, going to try to take advantage of the year and finish the year on a good note.   
  
  Q. It's been great fun watching you this year. Good luck to you.  
 JHONATTAN VEGAS: Thank you, guys. I appreciate it.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT