JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
September 30, 2011
Jhonattan Vegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. We were out there following you today. Like every putt had a chance of going in. Is that how you felt?
 JHONATTAN VEGAS: I did, man. I did literally. I felt like I putted really well today. My ball striking wasn't as good as it was yesterday and that's kind of why the round wasn't as good as yesterday. But my putting's been pretty well, which that's kind of what I've worked for. And hopefully I can continue that for two more days and we'll be right there where we are. 

 Q. Third hole, I think you were trying to address this. It went in the hazard. Can you explain what happened there?
 JHONATTAN VEGAS: You know, that was a really crazy hole. Put it that way. I was trying to get to the left side to have another look at that pin. From the right it was a little complicated shot. So I really tried to go at it hard and really hit the worst shot of the week probably. 
 And I literally didn't really see where the ball ended up and I'm just looking for it right there in the trees and I'm just thinking that I would have to hit my fifth shot from the right side and then one of the scorers found it way down there. Luckily it was my ball. How it got there, I have no clue, but it was one of those fortunate breaks that you get and when you're playing well.

 Q. And then you only made bogey, which is actually not too bad. Did that help you out, knowing that it was only bogey and you were able to bounce back from that the rest of the round?
 JHONATTAN VEGAS: Oh, yes. Definitely. When you can save a stroke and it sets up with a positive. You know, I was fortunate, to be honest, because I would never thought that ball would end up there. But it was my ball. It had a mark on it. So who knows where it hit.

 Q. Over the weekend, same game plan for you?
 JHONATTAN VEGAS: Yes. Same game plan. I feel like I'm playing great. Stay aggressive, try to keep making putts and we'll see what happens.

 Q. Is this your first time to Las Vegas?
 JHONATTAN VEGAS: First time playing professional.

 Q. Okay. Do you feel like it's a home game? I'm sure the crowds cheer for you. 
 JHONATTAN VEGAS: You know what, it's just a fun week. It's not a home week, but it's just a really, really fun week. It could be really better if I would be holding the trophy at the end. 

 Q. Good playing, man. That was a solid great round of golf yesterday, 63. Backed it up with a solid one today. Your thoughts?
 JHONATTAN VEGAS: I know. I mean great round. I think I'm in seventh today. Things didn't really go actually as they went yesterday, but it was a good round. 4-under anywhere is good, that's kind of where you want to be heading into the weekend.

 Q. Tell me about that third hole. That's one of the funkiest things I've ever seen. Walk me through it. 
 JHONATTAN VEGAS: You know, to be honest, I can't really picture it right now. Just really tried to get to the left side of that, of that par-4. Hit the worst shot of today, just really thinking that the ball would have been there. Looked for it there for four minutes, and as we're looking for it, one of the scorers that was walking all the way down saw a ball that looked like mine. And I was like, awe, there's no way it could be mine.

 Q. 70 yards away. 
 JHONATTAN VEGAS: Exactly. So I mean so the official went, well, let's go check and see if it's yours, and it was actually mine. It was really weird. It had a huge mark on it. Who knows what it hit. I guess I was fortunate that I found it and I could still make bogey instead of a double throwing it in from the other side. So it's one of the fortunate breaks that you get when you're playing well.

 Q. I gotta tell you, I was with you at the Hope when you won. I was with you in San Diego when you finished second, and this is only the third time I've been with you all year long. You might want to petition the PGA TOUR network and have me follow you around out here. 
 JHONATTAN VEGAS: Yeah. You know what, I could actually pay your salary if you can be with me every single week if that's the case. 
 But no, it's fun. I'm really having a blast here in Vegas. I feel like I'm playing well, and hopefully we'll continue that for the next couple days.

 Q. Keep it going. You're making it look really easy out there. Have fun. 
 JHONATTAN VEGAS: Thanks, guys. Appreciate it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT