JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
September 29, 2011
Jhonattan Vegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MARK STEVENS: Like to welcome Jhonattan Vegas. Ten birdies today to get 8-under for the tournament and you have a one-shot lead. If you want to talk about the course and your round today and then we'll take some questions.  
 JHONATTAN VEGAS: Yeah, definitely. It was a great round, what can I say. I mean, it was pretty much from the get-go, it was great. I feel like I'm hitting the ball absolutely great, which is something fun to do. But the main thing was I made a lot of putts today.   
 The course is playing fair. There are lots of birdie holes out there that you can take advantage of, which is good. And that's kind of what I did today. I mean, I put myself in great position pretty much all day long, and I had a couple of bogeys, pretty much 3-putts from long range.   
 But overall, really pleased with the way I played.   
  
  Q. The missed putts this year -- do you think it's done you justice --  
 JHONATTAN VEGAS: Not really. I've been working on the same things for a while. Putting is something that I have to keep an eye on and keep working hard. When I struggle, that's where I struggle the most.   
 So I mean, it's just really working hard, working hard and making it better. The putts the last few weeks have definitely been a little bit better. And the stroke the past few weeks, the ball-striking the last few weeks hasn't been the best. But really working hard.   
  
  Q. Can you point to one or two specific things that you've worked hard on on the practice greens that resulted in the improved performance?  
 JHONATTAN VEGAS: When it comes down to putting, it's really down to basics. Just making sure you're aiming where you want to hit it; that you hit the ball solid, and it doesn't really shoot right or left, which is what I struggle with; and just trying to hit the ball where I'm looking at and just the way I want.   
 So I mean, that's putting, and that's something that I have to really work hard on to get to where I want to get.   
  
  Q. You had two bogeys today, but you responded very well with birdies right after that. Is there any reason why it didn't get you down and you came right back?  
 JHONATTAN VEGAS: I feel like I'm hitting the ball absolutely great, and I proved it to myself today, the two greens I missed today, I missed by probably half an inch, and just putting from the fringe, 3-putted both times, which was kind of ironic. Just golf; it is what it is. You have to stay positive, and the more positive you can be, the better you'll be out there.   
  
  Q. Of the two bogeys, the one on 17 you probably wish you had that 6-footer back.   
 JHONATTAN VEGAS: It is what it is, man. You know, I hit a really good first putt and just ran it by four feet, maybe a little more. Just didn't hit a good putt for my third putt -- second putt I guess. It's just one of those things. You can't really focus on the negative. You have to focus on the positive and just give doing what I'm doing.   
 Hit a good putt, left it right in the front of the hole. Could have been a little quicker. I feel like I played well today. I missed two little putts, but overall I made some great putts today.   
  
  Q. Looking at the way -- you've had a very interesting year, you started out very well, you won early in the year, and then you had a little slump and then you kind of got on your game again. Can you just talk about your year in general, how you've played a lot of events and just how you were able to regroup and get your game back?  
 JHONATTAN VEGAS: Yeah, that might have been the toughest part of the year, just really trying to bring my best game every single week. I definitely started the year absolutely great. I couldn't have gotten off to a better start but after that, really pretty much hit the wall.   
 I was just playing like I've never played, which is kind of -- I just wasn't hitting the ball well, wasn't putting well. I wasn't doing anything good, which you know, pretty much had to do with all of the pressure, all of the attention, everything that had to do with the beginning of the year that just right after, that I really couldn't focus.  
 But you know, I just really was able to regroup, to work hard, to stay patient, to really do what I do. And I've been playing some good golf. It has not been exactly the way that I wanted it, but the way I say, the way I think, it's part of the learning process out here, learning new courses, learning new things here. That's kind of what I'm going through right now.  
  
  Q. Obviously Vegas playing in Vegas, it would be kind of cool to win, wouldn't it?  
 JHONATTAN VEGAS: It would be really good to win. This could be really fun to win, because of, you know, winning in Vegas, last name Vegas, could be really fun. It could be really, really fun. We are going to give it a try. I have put myself in a great position starting.   
 Three more rounds, have a long way to go, lots of good rounds out there. So I just have to keep playing hard and hopefully it will turn out to be great.  
  
  Q. It was hot out there, how did you personally deal with the heat? Some guys are struggling with it?  
 JHONATTAN VEGAS: The great thing is I grew up in the hit. I grew up in Venezuela, which is was always hot. I don't really mind the heat, but you have got to be careful. You have to really protect yourself. You have to drink a lot of water, sunscreen, do all of that stuff and stay as cool as you can.   
 But it doesn't bother me much. I would actually rather have this kind of heat than be in a bit of cold.   
  
  Q. Could it be an advantage; a lot of guys were having a tough time.   
 JHONATTAN VEGAS: It's tough. Like I said, it's tough. The sun really wears you out. Like I said, you've got to really be mindful of it and protect yourself and try to save a lot of energy.   
 MARK STEVENS: Thank you.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT