PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 2011
Jhonattan Vegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JHONATTAN VEGAS: Great round, 68, four birdies, two bogeys and then played solid, didn't really put myself in that much trouble, which is always good on a course like this. But yeah, really, really solid round. I'm pleased with where I'm playing right now and where I am.   
  
  Q. Yesterday morning, there were a lot of low scores in the first wave. Not so many today. You were one of the few out there who is going low in the morning, has the course changed at all?  
 JHONATTAN VEGAS: Yeah, the course is the same as this. This is just a hard course, and I mean, it's a really, really hard course that you've got to manage yourself around, and I feel like I'm playing good enough to manage myself around and not get in so much trouble.   
 But yeah, I mean, it's definitely a tough course.   
  
  Q. Pretty well placed now going into the weekend. How do you feel about where you're placed?   
 JHONATTAN VEGAS: Absolutely good. Should be a few shots behind. But I mean, we got two days and two days, anything could happen, so I'm excited, going to go try to play good and hopefully things will turn out to be great.   
  
  Q. Inaudible.  
 JHONATTAN VEGAS: I hit lob-wedge from 80,90 yards or so. I was in the rough, and I knew that it was going to release. Good shot, unfortunately, the putt didn't go in. I hit a good putt. But one of those things, really wish I would have had that one.   
  
  Q. When you say you stayed out of trouble, is there any particular place where you said, I can't hit it there?   
 JHONATTAN VEGAS: You know, a lot of times, you have to favor going to the middle of the green and managed two putts for par on some of the more difficult holes and tried to hit good tee shots, which I've been doing, which is always a plus on these kind of courses.   
  
  Q. What did you do on 15 through 18?  
 JHONATTAN VEGAS: 2-over today and 1-over yesterday. So you know, it's a tough stretch. And a tough stretch that you've got to try to manage yourself around, like I said, and not make too many mistakes, and try to take advantage on other holes.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT