VOLVO WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
May 20, 2011
Jhonattan Vegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JHONATTAN VEGAS: It's a great feeling, every time you beat a guy like that, it's going to feel good. We had a great match. Things came up on my side, but it was good. 

 Q. 2-down with seven holes to play, what are your tactics then?
 JHONATTAN VEGAS: Nothing. Just keep on playing. Keep on playing. I've been playing fairly well, so just keep on playing. That's match play. Anything could happen and you've got to be patient in this game. 

 Q. You won the Hope earlier in the year, finished third the next week; how did that change things for you in your career?
 JHONATTAN VEGAS: It changed a lot. Especially for a rookie. I'm a rookie on the PGA TOUR, my third year as a professional, and I still have a lot to learn. It just makes you feel good. Things have changed crazy, I got a lot to do, you know, tougher people to compete against, but it's fun. I love that. 

 Q. You're playing Graeme McDowell this afternoon in a match that will decide who tops the group. But you know you're through to the next round; how do you feel about that?
 JHONATTAN VEGAS: I feel great. It makes me breathe a little bit easier. McDowell is a tough competitor, but it's good. I think it's good to finish on top of your group, and we are going to go and try to do that. 

 Q. Your first tournament here in Europe, how is it to be in Europe and especially playing match play?
 JHONATTAN VEGAS: It's great to be here. I love travelling. I mean, Spain, it's a great place, a lot of great golfers, so it's great to be here. 

 Q. Your first match today, how was it?
 JHONATTAN VEGAS: The match was tough. Louis is a really, really tough competitor. You can't blink for a second because you're going to lose. You know, I played fairly steady today. I just made I think four birdies today. I mean, just things came on my side for one hole, and, you know, I'm happy to be here. 

 Q. What do you feel about this afternoon's match with Graeme McDowell?
 JHONATTAN VEGAS: It's going to be a tough one, but it's match play. Anything could happen. We are going to go play again, stay patient, try to make as many birdies as I can. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT