SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
March 29, 2011
Jhonattan Vegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MARK STEVENS: I'd like to welcome Jhonattan Vegas. Jhonattan, you have some special ties to the Houston area. I know when you moved from Venezuela back in I think '02 or '03.  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: '02.   
 MARK STEVENS: You moved to Houston. Start out explaining that connection and then we'll take some questions.  
 JHONATTAN VEGAS: Yeah. How is it going? Can you hear me? I guess this is not on.   
 But, yeah, I mean I came to Houston in August of '02 to live with my golf teacher. I think earlier that year I came to play in San Diego and came to Houston to see Franci Betancourt. I came here and trained with him for I guess for a few days before going to the Junior World,, play there, and then on my way to Houston to go back to Venezuela his son actually was telling me why don't you come to Houston and learn English, play golf.   
 Later on the year I decided to come to Houston and, you know, pretty much ever since then I made Houston my residence, you know, and it's been great, lovely. I got to play the Shell Houston Open that following year, '03 on the Monday qualified which brings pretty good memories.   
 That first Tour experience was this one here and since that time, it's great to be back. So I mean I'm loving it and having a good time.  
 MARK STEVENS: Thank you. Questions.  
  
  Q. You have great command of the language. How long have you had great command of English?  
 JHONATTAN VEGAS: It's been a little while now. It's still getting better. I'm working on it.   
 But, yeah, I mean I spent a year and a half here learning English and then English was okay at that time and went to UT, to Austin, and spent four and a half years there at that school, and that's when I think my English got a little bit better.  
  
  Q. Tell me about that time at the University of Texas playing there under Coach Fields, what it was like just traveling around with the university?  
 JHONATTAN VEGAS: It was fun. It was a total different experience for me, just coming from a different place that we wouldn't have that. Just to be able to come here, you know, go to UT, huge school. I mean it was like wow, this is amazing. Such a good school, lot of people. Great, you know, athletic program and, you know, like I said, the thing I liked the most we just made it -- it was like a family with the Athletic Department, which was good, made it really comfortable for me to get adjusted to school and being there and everything and it was fun.   
 We got to go to some great places, got some great players on the team which made it fun. We actually played okay when we were there and -- it was a learning process. That's kind of what I took from it. It was, you know, maturity, just really getting adjusted to being here and playing golf and developing my golf game and, you know, fortunate enough after that to start working with Kevin Kirk here in Houston and so you just -- partner got together and started working and still working. It was a great learning opportunity.  
  
  Q. How critical was that decision in your career for going to UT?  
 JHONATTAN VEGAS: It was great. One, because it just gave me a lot of tools to prepare myself for this, for being here on the PGA TOUR because I was able to learn the language a little bit better and I was able to develop my game to a good extent and prepare myself a little bit more for the PGA TOUR. Just a great opportunity.  
  
  Q. I know you played San Antonio and are playing it again. You've got Houston. Is there something special with an adopted state and playing some of the events here?  
 JHONATTAN VEGAS: I think just the whole State of Texas, I've been pretty home feeling for me. You know, just like when I'm here, I feel comfortable. I like everyone around. You know, just being able to meet a lot of people. Charlie Epps is here, Charlie is around here. Met him when I got here. Really helped me out really making things comfortable, which that's what you like about one place. That's why I love Houston so much. By feeling that around here, it's just really, you know, good for everybody.  
  
  Q. With that comfortable feeling, what are you expecting this year?  
 JHONATTAN VEGAS: I'm going to go ahead and try to win. That's kind of what I do every week. I know it doesn't happen every time. I'm going to go out and try to win. Feel my game is headed the right way, been playing good, some up and down weeks but still have confidence and playing great. We're going to go ahead and win. Only God knows what's going to happen. I'm going to try and win.  
  
  Q. Lee Westwood said he hasn't looked at who's in the field necessarily. Do you look who's in the field when you roll into a tournament?  
 JHONATTAN VEGAS: Not really. Just got here. I know that I'm here and (laughter) -- just because of that, I'm just really trying to get ready to, you know, go ahead and play good golf and try to win.  
  
  Q. Does this golf course suit your game and how often have you gotten down here to play it?  
 JHONATTAN VEGAS: I've been here quite a bit. We played a collegiant event here when I was in Texas. After that I've been able to play quite often and it's a course that I think suits my game really well. It's such a long golf course, you have to hit it long and straight and if you're able to do that, you have pretty good advantage over a lot of people.  
 That's kind of what I feel that I do great. But, more than that, you have to do a lot of things good here. That's a huge advantage and so I mean just feel comfortable here.  
  
  Q. Will you have any extra people or are your family not here, lot of friends here come out to support you in a tournament like this?  
 JHONATTAN VEGAS: I got a lot of friends coming. Actually my family are coming, is coming, yes. They're actually flying in today. And, yeah, I mean so I really hope that a lot of people come because it's good, it's good having that support and especially from a place I really like a lot, and so I really hope -- I think I've heard a lot of people are coming.  
  
  Q. Are you familiar with other great athletes from your home country, Richard Hidalgo?  
 JHONATTAN VEGAS: Yeah. I've been able to hang out with "Adresco" Arroyo, huge baseball player. So many of the great athletes we've had. So it's good to hang around some of those guys who have had so much success in terms and learn from them.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about your hot start this year and winning the Bob Hope Classic, also?  
 JHONATTAN VEGAS: At the end of last year after I got my card I sat down with Kevin and Franci. We talk about how important playing good at the beginning of the year is to make the rest of the year a lot better and so we went and just really prepared our off-season so we have good chance of playing good at the beginning of the year and I think that's kind of what set everything up for such a great start.   
 I was able to go down to South America, play three tournaments. I won two out of those which, you know, winning is always great. It makes you feel good.  
 When I got to Hawaii, I played good golf. I only played two rounds. The other side, I was able to get to Palm Springs a little earlier and get to practice all four courses and I was there, such a special week, played really good and putted amazing and you know, after that, just a magical week. What can I say?   
 I knew that I could win here. I didn't know it was going to be that quick. But you never know when things are going to happen. That's kind of what I do and just try as hard as I can every single time and hope for the best.  
  
  Q. Who have you spoken to about going to Augusta next week. What players have you spoken to?  
 JHONATTAN VEGAS: I've been talking a lot to Angel Cabrera, he's made Houston his residence, too, and I've talked to him a lot about the course. I'm going to hang out a little bit with Ben Crenshaw Shaw, Texas alumni, too.   
 Just really tried to talk to some of those people and see how much information I can get from that course because, as y'all know, it's a course you really have to know to be able to play well.  
  
  Q. One more question follow-up, what sort of the interest do you think it will generate back home, you playing next week?  
 JHONATTAN VEGAS: Like playing the World Cup, you know. Everyone that knows a little bit about golf is going to be watching the Masters and for the first time to have somebody from Venezuela to be playing, it's going to be really nice and I'm sure the country is very excited.  
  
  Q. You mentioned Angel Cabrera. Is there another golfer you grew up trying to be like, anybody in particular?  
 JHONATTAN VEGAS: I grew up watching Tiger a lot. I mean right when I started watching golf he was right at his prime and watching him win that '97 Masters and everything.   
 Yes, I've been really trying to see how he plays the course and how he does things on the course and, you know, just try to learn from that. He's probably the best we've had in awhile or ever and so just trying to learn from the best.  
  
  Q. Do you talk to him much at all?  
 JHONATTAN VEGAS: Little bit. Not much. He's been busy trying to play good golf and so not much.  
  
  Q. What's been the biggest adjustment for you since the Hope?  
 JHONATTAN VEGAS: Just time management, which has been really crazy. Just to try to be so many different places, especially during tournament weeks and really manage my time the right way so I have time to prepare for the golf tournaments and just to really, you know, try to be in one place instead of ten different places at the same time and so which has been the most difficult part but I'm a rookie, still have a lot to learn but it's a great way to start doing it.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about your popularity in Venezuela and maybe even how the Venezuelan community here in Houston has kind of welcomed you back down here?  
 JHONATTAN VEGAS: Yeah. It's been pretty overwhelming, to be honest. I didn't know it was going to be this great. I mean it's been such a huge news back home and, like I said, I didn't really expect it. We're not a golfing country.   
 People have given me great support which is great because once you have that support from your country, just means a lot and just give you that extra energy to be here and keep playing hard and practicing because that way they can enjoy it and can support you a little more.  
 MARK STEVENS: Everybody good?   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT