PUERTO RICO OPEN PRESENTED BY BANCO POPULAR
March 13, 2010
Jhonattan Vegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   NELSON SILVERIO: We welcome our leader, Jhonattan Vegas. Thanks for spending a few minutes with us here. Tough conditions for you the first couple days, but they don't seem to bother you too much. Give us some thoughts on your round and what it took to get to the lead so far.   
 JHONATTAN VEGAS: Well, you know, it was a good day, obviously. And it wasn't just a good day for me. Just a good job from the beginning, hitting a lot of good shots, birdies. First hole I hit a good shot in there, my second hole, and just pretty much carried on after that, hitting good shots after that.   
 And I just kind of forgot about where I was up to the whole day, just kept playing golf like I normally do. So that's kind of how I was playing such good golf.   
 NELSON SILVERIO: Okay. Questions.  
  
  Q. (Questions in Spanish.)   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible).   
 JHONATTAN VEGAS: Well, I mean it was started last week when I played the Nationwide in Bogota. I felt like I played decent golf and didn't score well, and I went and spent a day with my golf teacher.   
  
  Q. Who was that?  
 JHONATTAN VEGAS: Kevin Kirk and Franci Betancourt spent a whole day with both of them, just kind of getting my game sharper. My schedule was playing good. I couldn't score the past couple of weeks, in Colombia and Bogota, I mean in Colombia and Panama.   
 And I just stayed there and just really got my game in better shape, and I came here with a lot of high expectations. I felt I was playing good, and my parents are here, and you know, what better way to greet them than playing good golf.   
  
  Q. (Question in Spanish.)   
 JHONATTAN VEGAS: Yeah. That between playing the first 18 didn't happen like this, and another 10-minute break and trying to have lunch, trying to rest, trying to get yourself together to get the second 18 going was tough. But like I said, I mean after, you know, after the first hole then I made a great par on one, kind of got back into rhythm and kept doing what I did on the first 18 holes.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible).   
 JHONATTAN VEGAS: I mean just play golf, man. That's kind of how I wanted to play. Just come here and enjoy it. This is my third PGA TOUR event season one as a professional. So I'm just enjoying it as much as I can, trying to learn from the past year, and I'm loving it so far.   
  
  Q. What else have you played?   
 JHONATTAN VEGAS: I played the Shell Houston Open when I was 18, and I played Valero Texas Open.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible).   
 JHONATTAN VEGAS: Yeah. I mean that's actually a good story. Everything got started for me when I was like around two years old. I was kind of hanging around the house with my parents.   
 My dad played golf from an early age, so I was looking after him, and being around the house I got like a short broomstick and a plastic ball and hit it around the house. And it looked fun, kind of get it into that and then got into golf.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible).   
 JHONATTAN VEGAS: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT