THE HONDA CLASSIC
February 28, 2019
Jhonattan Vegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Every time I come around this place and don't make a bogey, it's pretty good.  Obviously I felt like I played well today, hit my irons the best I've hit them all year, and I've always liked this golf course.  It's kind of one of those courses that I think suits me.  You have to hit the ball well and you have to get around really well.  And then I made a few putts.   
 Q.  When you seem to be so in control of your swing, did that allow you to play aggressively?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Yeah, I mean, to be honest, it's very hard to be aggressive around here, even with some of these pins.  There's always trouble around the corner that you -- even if you're hitting it great, it's really hard to start hitting at some of those pins.  Sometimes hitting it to 25 feet, 30 feet, it's a good shot, and you have to use your best judgment and go from there.   
 Q.  Only one top 10 at this course.  What do you have to do well the rest of the weekend here?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Yeah, I mean, I have to see putts going in.  It's great being a pretty good ball striker, but once I see balls going in, obviously confidence builds up and I know that I pretty much can birdie every hole.  Obviously when the putter is not there, it's a whole different story, but when they're going in, it's a lot of fun for me.   
 Q.  What's it like trying to manage the schedule and energy and all the things that come with trying to compete with the best?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Well, I think it's a little bit different this year with the majors kind of all being back-to-back-to-back-to-back, and the THE PLAYERS is just around the corner.  You have to think about energy as an important issue nowadays because it's not about just playing the courses that you like.  You have to try to peak at the right times.  Obviously I've taken it kind of easy so far.  I haven't played kind of great, so obviously this is a good start to the week and I have good momentum right now.   
 Q.  You're smiling, of course you're always smiling, but after today, that was a great start.  You played really, really well.  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Yes, yes.  Obviously I felt like I was in control pretty much all day long.  Every time you can do that around this golf course, these fairways, these greens, you can leave the ball in the right places, not sweat it out as much, it's always good because obviously over the years this course has given me a few gray hairs.  So it's good.  Every round like this is good.  It's good for the confidence going on, knowing that a good round is always around the corner.  So I've just got to keep the mind in a good place and keep looking ahead.   
 Q.  You missed only three greens, and they were on the collar.  The greens are firm, so you're going to get some bounce-offs.  All in all, the iron play was excellent.  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: The iron play was really good, actually.  I feel like I've been around there the whole year.  Obviously the difference today was making a few putts, which seems to be every week.  The guy that's making a few putts seems to be doing well.  Especially for me, I feel like I give myself some good chances by making a few putts always gives me good confidence.   
 Q.  You played with Koepka and Woodland, and you guys all average over 300 yards off the tee when you have the big dog in your hand.  When you play with those guys, do you have to like ramp it down or do you get caught up going, maybe I ought to hit it past them?  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Not really.  You try to hit it out there, but you don't want to be the one hitting first on every hole.  Obviously it's good energy playing with those guys, obviously Brooks winning all the majors he's won the past few years and Gary playing phenomenal golf lately.  So good energy to feed off, and hopefully we can continue it tomorrow.   
 Q.  Tomorrow Anibal Sanchez, great pitcher with the Washington Nationals from Venezuela, is coming out to watch you play.  He said he wants to meet you.  That's pretty neat when a fellow countryman wants to come out and see what you're all about.  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Well, that's the great thing about obviously Venezuelans, especially here in Florida.  They're always around right now, and there's so many good ones, especially baseball players around this area.  It's cool.  I've always been a huge fan of baseball, and Anibal obviously has been a great pitcher all these years, and it's been fun kind of getting to see him pitching.  It'll be good to see him.  Andres Galarraga was around here earlier today.  He's been a good friend over the years, so it's good to kind of have the support.   
 Q.  The Big Cat, Andres Galarraga.  
JHONATTAN VEGAS: Yeah, the Big Cat.  Obviously he's been a good mentor to be honest.  He's been good giving me support and everything through the years.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT