U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 23, 2007
Jhonattan Vegas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   CRAIG SMITH:  Jhonattan, congratulations.  Great playing.  You're going through these matches quite easily.  Are you playing that well. 
 JHONATTAN VEGAS:  Well, I think that I've been playing fairly well.  I think I've been playing really smart.  Playing every shot with a lot of intention.  
 I just taking it one shot at a time.  
 CRAIG SMITH:  Tell me a little bit about your background, get me from Venezuela and growing up in golf.  I know it will be a little bit of a story, but tell us a little bit of your background and getting to Texas and how you're playing here this week.  It's a long road, isn't it. 
 JHONATTAN VEGAS:  Well, like everything started when my dad, he grew up in Caracas and he was a caddie and he really loved golf.  So he got into the oil business and we were growing up and we lived in this like oil camp.  And they had a golf course there.  That is unusual on the site that I live in Venezuela.  And we had a golf course and my dad loved golf, my mom loved golf.  So as young kids we really, really loved golf.  Playing with our parents.  
 And I just really enjoyed it, just being there, being on the golf course, the whole day.  
 Then after that I was playing junior tournaments and I won the Venezuelan Junior Amateur and my golf teacher from Venezuela, Franci Betancourt, he moved to Houston actually.  And I loved the guy.  And I really liked the way he teaches.  And I decided to come here to follow him and just experience the U.S. life and you know, how it is to come to college and play golf at the same time.  
 Because of him I met also Kevin Kirk, my other golf teacher, who is a great guy.  And they're both the reason why I'm playing the way I'm playing.  
 CRAIG SMITH:  So you're not only playing for your self, you're playing for an awful lot of people who are rooting for you.  But when you came here I understand that your English was far from as good as it is now.  It's very good. 
 JHONATTAN VEGAS:  Oh, no, it's actually, I didn't speak any English.  And it was a hard time that I had.  
 It took me, I would say like a year and a half to just learn it decently well to go to school.  And once I got to school it got a little better.  And it's still getting a little bit better every time.  
 CRAIG SMITH:  What is next?  Are you here by yourself in Texas?  You have another semester to go.  Take me through, we went through the past, take me through what the future is.  
 JHONATTAN VEGAS:  Actually my little brother is here, he's the one caddieing for me here and it's kind of fun.  And I have another year left at school.  And that's kind of my main priority right now, just to finish school up.  Sure, I'm going to feel a lot better whenever I, to finish school, it gives you a little more support or more confidence.  
 And then as soon as I get done with that I'm going to try to play professional golf.  And I'm just going to try my best.  I'm going to enjoy the way -- I'm going to enjoy that the way I'm enjoying this. 
 CRAIG SMITH:  I was going to say, is certainly you're enjoying this, but being the equate the Venezuelan National Amateur that you won to this. 
 JHONATTAN VEGAS:  It's totally different.  The quality of players here doesn't even compare to the one in Venezuela.  We have a lot better players here.  
 But winning the National Venezuelan Amateur, it's still a big thing and that also gave me a lot of confidence.  I actually beat my little brother in the final.  
 But it was fun playing with him.  It wasn't easy.  It's not easy beating your younger brother, but it was fun.  It was a lot of fun winning that.  But it's a totally different feeling being here.  
 CRAIG SMITH:  Your little brother's here and you're here.  Mom and dad back in home country yet?  
 JHONATTAN VEGAS:  Yes.  They're back in Venezuela and I'm sure they enjoyed, they're enjoying it as much as I am enjoying it right now. 
 CRAIG SMITH:  How often do you get back and what kind of things do you miss being here?  
 JHONATTAN VEGAS:  I actually miss just being with them.  They're the best parents you can have.  They support you and they support me as much as they can and that's what I miss the most.  But I think I've been here for a little while and I know what my goal is.  And I'm just trying to put that on the side, it's not easy, but I'm just focusing on what I want to do right now and that is play golf. 
 CRAIG SMITH:  You said you have another year to finish up.  Are you missing class right now?  
 JHONATTAN VEGAS:  No, actually classes start on this coming Wednesday.  And I guess I'm kind of good with that right now.  

 Q.  When was last time you were back home? 
 JHONATTAN VEGAS:  Christmas.  

 Q.  And how old specifically were you when you came to the United States? 
 JHONATTAN VEGAS:  I got here like a week before my 18th birthday.  So I was actually 17 when I got here.  But a week after that I turned 18. 

 Q.  And that was coming specifically to go to school at Texas? 
 JHONATTAN VEGAS:  Not really.  Like I came to learn English and try to go to school.  And I luckily I found the University of Texas, which is one of the best schools ever.  And but the main goal was just coming here to get an education and try to play golf.  
 CRAIG SMITH:  You played in the Shell Houston Open as an amateur when you were just 18.  
 JHONATTAN VEGAS:  Yeah.  That was kind of nice.  Really, really nice.  Being around those guys it's just a different feeling.  I thought it was great when I was there just being around Vijay Singh and Phil Mickelson and those kind of guys.  That was a great feeling.  And that kind of opened my eyes as to what I wanted to pursue in golf.  But that was a great experience.  I really enjoyed it of the.  
 CRAIG SMITH:  What events led you to getting the invitation?  
 JHONATTAN VEGAS:  Actually, Monday qualified for it.  And it was like in the home course where I was practicing in Houston.  Cypresswood.  And I just decided to do it.  And it was fun.  I shot 68 that day and I can still feel, I can still remember the feeling.  
 CRAIG SMITH:  You are in good shape.  It's a great story to share.  Thank you very much.  And congratulations. 
 JHONATTAN VEGAS:  Thanks, Craig, I really enjoyed it.  



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT