ROLAND GARROS
October 4, 2020
Diego Schwartzman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








D. SCHWARTZMAN/L. Sonego
6-1, 6-3, 6-4
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
Q. Did you expect that match to be, looked like it was fairly easy for you, and can you explain why do you think you're playing so strong right now?
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN:   Well, I think that two sets I didn't expect to win 6-1 and 6-3, because of the conditions, because he was playing very good matches, but I start the match thinking how to play, how to beat him, how to do my best game.  I think everything was perfect the first two sets.
Then the third I had a little bit of lucky to not go to the fourth, he was serving 4-3, maybe he did a few mistakes and then I played the last two games really good.
But, you know, these kind of matches can change in just one moment.  And the third set was very important.  I'm very happy because of that, because at the end you have to win all these games, all the important moments, and I did great today.
Q. Four rounds, all in straight sets.  What's impressed you the most of your level here in Paris?
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN:   Well, I think I'm playing similar to Rome, very solid.
Today I served, my first serve was working very, very good.  The second set the first two games was not, and then after the rain I can fix that with my coach talking in the locker room.  After that, I did a great job with my serve every single game.  Just he broke me one time in the second and then one time in the third.
When you play against one guy who is solid in the baseline, the serve games are really important to give you confidence.  I start the game very well.
Then I know if I'm playing good tennis I can break the serve of the opponent few times.  Then I did a good mix with aggressive shots.  Then good points in the defense.  I think the mix was very important against Lorenzo, because he's an aggressive player.
Q. Quarterfinals.  Now a sentimental match, let's say, going against one of your best friends on the tour.  Can you describe your friendship to Domi?  Have you seen a little bit of this fight he had a few minutes ago against Hugo?  Can you describe the chances for you after this match from Domi?
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN:   Yeah, I saw the fifth in the bike, the last four or five games, was an amazing match.  You know, impressive game from Hugo Gaston after the first two sets.
Yeah, after that I was in the bike stretching.  After that Domi arrived, and we were kidding, Okay, this is the last time we talk each other until Tuesday (smiling).  He was doing, like, he was going to hit me, like, in my legs but nothing happened (smiling).  Yeah, just a smile.
And I'm very happy because of him.  He's playing amazing tennis.  Today was a great match and tough match for him.  But I think obviously playing like how I'm playing the last two weeks on clay, I have chances.  So I have to see how Hugo Gaston today has good third and fourth set against Domi and try to do similar things and try to keep Domi behind the baseline, because I know when he start to be aggressive it's really tough to beat.
Q. You beat Rafa obviously we know a couple of weeks ago, so everybody was looking at you before this French Open.  But also you had pretty tough US Open swings.  Taking all those factors together with the pressure on here after beating Rafa, but also the tough US Open swing, how proud are you to make a quarterfinal?  These quarterfinals don't come along regularly.
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN:   Clearly, yeah.  I was in the beginning after the pandemic in house, and the restart on court was not the best for me.  In US Open I didn't feel like I was ready to play five sets, and it was a tough match physically for me.  The five sets I finish with cramps, I finish with my left hand not really good.
So after that I was two weeks feeling pain in my left hand.  So the beginning for sure was not good.  But I was thinking, okay, the tennis is there.  I just have to find the way to continue practicing hard, doing everything with happiness.  I think that is the key.  It's very important in my life to keep the head up and keep practicing, keep doing what I know to do.
That's was the key to have this moment right now the last two weeks, in Rome and in here.
Q. You already talked a bit about matchup against Dominic.  What do you think you'll need to do best to have a chance against him on clay especially?
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN:   I have to do everything perfect, because he's playing his best in his career.  I think after US Open he has a lot of confidence right now.  He's doing every single shot, he's doing it, have something, and he knows how to play here.  The last three years he did not less than semifinal.
So he knows how to play here, he knows how to play in the center court.  And I have to do everything perfect and just expect to have the chance and take that chance against these kind of guys.  It's important thing.
And I beat him so that it's important thing maybe when I have the moment in the match, if I have, to know that I can beat him.
Q. Is this the most confident you have been in your career, beating Rafa, making the final in Italy, and then these really sort of dominant wins you have had in Paris?
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN:   I think so.  I think so, because, you know, after a few years you never know when your roof is going to be there and you don't know if you're going to reach another quarterfinals or reach another final in a big tournament.
So doing that kind of things in these tournaments are really nice.  Give me a lot of confidence because every year I can improve, I can do a few more things better.  And that's the important thing to go on court every day.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT