ROLEX PARIS MASTERS
November 5, 2020
Diego Schwartzman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  D. SCHWARTZMAN/A. Davidovich Fokina
 6-1, 6-1
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. You had another dominating performance against Alejandro.  Where are you gaining your confidence from?  It seems like ever since your US Open loss you have really changed your season.
 DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN:   Well, yeah.  I mean, US Open was a tough tournament, you know, to come back after too many months without tennis.
 I felt like I was ready, but I prepared too many weeks to tournaments, and that was not the best thing to do, you know.  I didn't feel really well in that match.
 So I saw a photo today from the central court from TV after that match against Norrie, I was, like, devastating, because I was two sets up and two match points, and I finished that match with cramps and with pain in my wrist.
 So it was tough, you know.  In all sense, it was a tough match.
 You know, after tough matches and after not the best tournaments, you always have two lines to run, you know, to try to change something or try to fix what you're not doing well.  And the other one is just do like nothing happen.  I was trying to fix, and we said with my team, Okay, what we did good, what we did bad, and how we can change that?
 I think we find a way to get the confidence back.  But always it's hard work.
 Q. At the ATP Cup you had some problems with your upcoming opponent, Daniil Medvedev, and in an interview also said you don't greet him anymore.  Can you weigh in on the relationship with him and how you see your upcoming match against him?
 DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN:   I didn't hear the start of the question.
 Q. At the ATP Cup you had some problems with Medvedev, so I was just wondering how your relationship is, because you also once said you don't greet him anymore.  What are your thoughts on the match in general?
 DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN:   Well, I think he did a mistake at that time in the ATP Cup, and maybe he understand that.
 We have just a relation between two guys who are playing the tour.  We say hello in the morning, good morning, good afternoon, and we practice for a few times after ATP Cup in Roland Garros and in a few different places.  Not more than that, you know.  We are different guys from different parts of the world.  We are with our teams here.  So our relation, it's okay.  I mean, it's fine.
 But when something happen in the match and I don't like, you know, I try to say.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT