ROLAND GARROS
October 6, 2020
Diego Schwartzman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  D. SCHWARTZMAN/D. Thiem
 7-6, 5-7, 6-7, 7-6, 6-2
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. How difficult was it for you to fight through some of those demons, how you managed to pull through and come away with one of the biggest victories of your career?
 DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN:   Well, as you said before, the second set, the third set, I had a lot of opportunities, also easy opportunities.  That's why I was really upset, really angry with me at that time in the second and in the third, when I was close to win in that sets.  I couldn't do it.
 It was a tough situation because in the fourth, he started playing so well.  I did the comeback, serving 5-4, 40-Love.  He played three unreal points, amazing points, because he's one of the best and he can do it.
 At that time I was thinking, Okay, c'mon, today is not going to happen.  I had a lot of opportunities, easy, tough ones, hard.  Every single opportunity was different.  I didn't took it.  Then the tiebreak was crazy.  I played an amazing tiebreak in the fourth.
 In the fifth, I keep doing the same thing, being solid.  At the end I think physically I finish better than him, so that's why was the win.
 Q. Now you're into the semifinals for the first time, what do you think of this opportunity?  Now you can get to play Rafa, who you maybe have more confidence against now than before Rome.
 DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN:   Well, I'm not sure because if I see the history, I'm 10-1 down.  I'm not sure if I'm going to have a lot of confidence (laughter).
 But, yeah, I know this week that I can beat him.  That's important thing.  Sinner is a great player, a young player.  He's playing amazing tennis this week.  We'll see what happen that match.
 I know Rafa is the guy who has to win or who is in the best position to win today, and maybe play the semifinal against him.  But I will see the match, just trying to enjoy.  I have two days free so I'm not thinking yet about the semifinal.  I'm thinking just about the crazy match I won.
 I'm very, very happy about the match and nothing else right now.
 Q. I apologize for asking a background question.  I was very interested to know, can you briefly tell us the story of your grandparents on your Russian side that made their way to Argentina.  Can you share their story, please?
 DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN:   Yeah.  Like I said before, I don't know 100% of the history.  I know the grandpa of my mom and my dad, both sides, they were in Europe at that time of the war.  They find a way to come to Buenos Aires.  They didn't speak Spanish.  They spoke Yiddish at that time.  They escaped from the war.
 That is the story, the big story.  How they escape, I know the grandpa of my mom escape from the train.  After that he was trying to get a ship to Buenos Aires, to Argentina.  That's how start the Schwartzman and the Dykes family, surname of my mom, starting in Argentina.  That is the story.
 I don't know the whole story perfect, but I know this was the case.  I didn't met my grand-grandfather.
 Q. Your play style and strategy, especially on the clay, you stay very close to the baseline, you take the ball quite early.  I think you come to the net more often than before, which is not very typical play style on the clay.  Do you think that kind of play style, strategy, works for you on the clay?
 DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN:   Well, I have to do a mix every time I'm on court.  Being aggressive when I have the chance, having a good defenses when I have to do it.
 Today I think was different game.  I went many times to the net because Dominic was doing a lot of slice.  When I had the opportunity to go to the net against that slice, it's a good position for me.  Was a good move.  A few times I lost the points, but in general was a good move today.
 Always when I played against one guy who is doing a slice, or is maybe a few steps behind the line, I'm trying to do it.  I think I have to do a mix.  That's why sometimes I go to the net, sometimes I try to defense.  The mix is the real important thing on clay.
 Q. Is there any way you stay up to watch Rafa's match?
 DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN:   Sorry, again.
 Q. Is there any way to stay up to watch Rafa's match tonight?  Are you secretly hoping that he has to play till the wee hours of the morning?
 DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN:   On court to see the match?  Awake, okay.
 Yeah, for sure I'm going to be awake.  Is tough to sleep after this match, I can tell you that.  It's going to be tough to sleep.  I'm going to see that match because it's a nice match to watch, very nice match to watch.  Sinner is a great guy, great young weapon.  Rafa is the legend here, is the owner of this place almost.
 Yeah, it's going to be a nice match.
 Q. You played over five hours today.  You didn't lose a set before.  How do you think you're going to be physically in the semifinals, especially if it's against Rafa who only played seven hours so far?
 DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN:   Well, I think I have lucky to play today the five-sets match because now I have two days free.  I had lucky.  I have a good situation about the recovery after the matches.  I feel in a good way after the matches.
 Before this match I was doing a great job winning in three sets.  That's why it's very important to win when you have the opportunity in three sets because when is coming the five sets, you have to have the fuel tank full.
 I was perfect today.  I think after two days I'm going to be perfect in semifinal.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT