MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAú
March 29, 2021
Diego Schwartzman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  D. SCHWARTZMAN/A. Mannarino
 6-1, 6-4
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. I want to ask you about your possible opponents next, looks like it's probably going to be Korda.  It's 5-0 in the second.
 DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN:   He won.
 Q. Okay.  I'm curious about Karatsev too, also, even though you're not going to play him, because he's been such an incredible story this year.  Can you talk about each of those guys?  And especially obviously Korda and what you expect from him.
 DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN:   Well, Korda, it's a young guy, he's playing very good tennis.  I'm watching him and I think he's similar to Berdych, how he moves, how he hit the ball.  I saw him, I really see him very similar to Tomas.
 He's really young, but he's, you know, putting the step on court and he looks like he's playing since 10 years already.  That's good for him.
 But I hope to have a good match tomorrow against him.  It's going to be difficult, and I have to play very good tennis to beat him because he's doing very well this year since the beginning of the year.
 Karatsev is doing great.  He came to Australia, passing the quallies, and maybe nobody knew him before Australia and now everyone knows him, you know.  He's playing great tennis, so aggressive, doing 30 winners per match.
 It's a really difficult opponent.  I'm not going to have my revenge yet, but I hope to see him on court again.  But he's a good guy and playing very good.
 Q. I'm curious, I don't know what the situation is in Argentina with this, about the coronavirus vaccines.  How much of a priority is it for you to get one and what are your thoughts on...
 DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN:   It's not a priority for me, because we are having a lot of problems, you know, to get the vaccine in Argentina.  Obviously we are here in America and America have a lot of opportunities with the vaccine for many people, but I'm not thinking to get.
 I mean, if I have the chance in the future, I think I'm going to help my family in the future to get one, but I really don't love the vaccine, you know, never, never.  It's not a tradition in my family to get any vaccine.
 So I think everyone is going to get if we have the chance in the future, but not yet.  Argentina, it's not, you know, is having difficulties right now.  Is closing again many, many things.  People from outside cannot go.  So difficult moment, but right now it's a long way to Europe for me, many tournaments, so I'm not going back.
 Q. Have you heard anything from the tours about vaccines or anything, from the ATP?  Has the ATP talked to players about it?
 DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN:   Not yet.  I read a lot of things about Tokyo, no?  Trying to get the vaccine for the athletes.  Obviously if the athletes have the chance before going Tokyo, Tokyo get the vaccine correctly in the legal mood, maybe I do it.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT