US OPEN
September 5, 2019
Diego Schwartzman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








R. NADAL/D. Schwartzman
6-4, 7-5, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Rafa's serve had only been broken twice the whole tournament. You did it four times and almost more than that. How did you manage to do that? What was your plan to attack that serve?
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: Well, I mean, I played against him many, many times. I think he improved his serve a lot. I don't know how, but these guys are improving every time.
He improve his serve a lot, like I said. Was difficult today. I break him four times, but I didn't felt comfortable with the return today like I felt the matches before. Was difficult that part of the match, because he won many points with the serve, and I think he took a lot of confidence with that part of the game.
And then nothing, but I think he's serving very, very good right now.
Q. We read so much about disadvantages of being a shorter player. Do you feel like there are any advantages to being the smaller guy?
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: Well, I think today, for example, I didn't serve my best today, and when I'm not serving very, very well like the matches before, like, maybe 80% of the year, I was serving very well and today was difficult that part of my game, because I was not serving very good.
And Rafa was doing good returns and playing good in my games. Against him, you need to serve big and take the opportunities when you are serving and try to be aggressive. I think today that happened because, you know, my serve is not always working.
Q. The passing shot, 5-1 in the second, crowd was on their feet, shouting your name, those are moments you cling to when you have played really well but have not won?
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: I mean, yeah, it was crazy. It's nice when it's happening on court, the big points and when you win the big points. This happen to me today in this point, like you said, and I felt really well after that.
I take a lot of confidence after that point and I start to play like the first set and very well after that. In the third I had a chance when he called the trainer. He was not very good at that time, and I didn't take the chance. I think I won many good points, but in important moments, I didn't feel really well today.
Q. You had a five-set battle with Matteo at Wimbledon. What do you expect in the semifinal? Do you think he has a chance?
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: Well, it's difficult to say something, you know. Berrettini, Nadal, I'm not playing. I think Rafa is the favorite for that game. You know, Matteo today played five sets, strong sets. First time in semifinal. Too many new things for him, so he needs to be ready and then have for another big challenge.
I think Rafa know how to play that kind of matches. So it's going to be difficult for Matteo. But I'm happy for him, because he's a very good guy.
Q. Matteo said that Rafa is the greatest fighter in the history of tennis.
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: Yeah, I think so.
Q. How would you describe Nadal as a fighter?
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: Well, like a lion in the middle, you know, in the jungle, you know. He's a fighter. He knows how to play the important moments every single time. I played eight times, and every important moment he played better than me (smiling).
I don't know what to say, but, yeah, I agree with Matteo, for sure.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT