ROLAND GARROS
May 26, 2019
Diego Schwartzman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








D. SCHWARTZMAN/M. Fucsovics
6-3, 3-6, 7-6, 2-6, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.
Q. What was the key to getting through that long first match?  How tough was that?
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: The key, you mean?
Q. Yeah.
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: Oh, I don't know which one was, but I think stay focused in the match, waiting for take the chance.  Because I took, you know, many chances he give me in the match.  I was 1-0, 2-1 with serve.
I think I was not serving really well, but I was not serving bad.  But the conditions were really tough to defend the serve.  So it was really slow today.  Sometimes was raining.  So it was really difficult to keep our serve, you know, aggressive and winning many points.
And I think the key was don't care about that, just focusing my tennis and keep continue in the same way.  And then in the fifth, I think I played better than him, and he start to be at the end a little bit tight.
Q. I'm doing a story on Marco Trungelliti and the whole integrity thing.  And he has said he has not felt very much support with other players after talking to the TIU and helping them with cases against other argentine players.  What do you think of his case and do you think other players should support him?
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: I think so.  I mean, not just only his case.  I mean, I'm totally in the opposite side from the guys who are trying to not give the 100% in the court and in the tournament.
So, I mean, if he was watching bad things on the tour and then he went to the integrity, it's okay.  I mean, it's a good thing what he did, and nothing -- I think if I have the chance, I am going to do the same thing.
But, you know, it's a difficult position for him, but I think he have the support of the players.  Yeah.
Q. Why do you think he doesn't feel like he has support?  He said he feels like he's been isolated?
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: I don't have relationship with him because on other things.  You know, he's not my friend.  But what he did, it's okay for me.  I mean, he did in the good way.
I don't know why he feel like he's not in the same side with the other players.  I don't know why, because I'm not talking with him.  But what he did, for me it's fine and I'm with him.
But after that, I don't know because I don't have relation with him.  Yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT