LAVER CUP
September 21, 2018
Diego Schwartzman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








D. GOFFIN/D. Schwartzman
6-4, 4-6, 11-9
Team Europe - 3
Team World - 0
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. A difficult loss tonight, but you played very well.  What are you pleased with about your game this evening?
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: I think I did a good job inside the court.  I think the first set I have many chances to win that set, and I didn't take the chances against David.
And then in the 4-5, he played great tennis.  And then in the second set I did again like the first set.  I was trying to be aggressive sometimes, doing good defenses.
Then in the third, he was up like 7-3 or something like that.  He did a few bad misses, and I take the chance.  Then two match points.  Then maybe I was not doing aggressive points.  He was taking every point first than me.  He was doing a good job in the last four points.
Q. Again, I don't know if you were aware as much because you're in the game, but the crowd excitement around your match and also for you this evening was pretty tremendous.
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: Yeah.
Q. Did you have that feeling?
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: Yeah, for sure, for sure.  I was trying to find my family one time, and I can't.  In the final point when I had the match points, I find them, but it was not good because I lost four points in a row after that.
It was great atmosphere out there.  It was crazy.  My teammates was really, really good job outside the court, and the people was doing a great job, as well, trying to make noise every point.  So it was a great atmosphere.
Q. You have been on a winning Davis Cup team.  How does this compare to that experience?  And these two different types of teams?
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: It's different, because my teammates are the opponents in the tour.  I'm trying to be on the same team and to do everything for them.
It's great.  It's great.  I'm trying to learn every day, trying to find something to improve here.  It's a great thing.  I think the Laver Cup have a really good format and the people it's enjoying every day.
Q. I know all the players are out there, you know, pumping you up, but Kyrgios seems like he does that more than anyone else.  What's it like with him cheering for you out there?
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: Yeah, he's a crazy guy.  Everyone knows.  He was doing a good job every single point.  For me, was really good because I was trying to look at him every point and every important moment.  He helped me to stay in the match and almost win.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT