INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA
May 17, 2019
Diego Schwartzman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
D. SCHWARTZMAN/K. Nishikori   
6-4, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Today you played solid, at the same time you were very aggressive.  Was that your plan against Kei?  
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: Yes.  I think today I try to did every shot aggressive, also in the defense.  But before when I played against Kei three times already:  Buenos Aires, Madrid and US Open.  Every single time was really tough, really close match.  I won set in every match, so I felt the confidence to beat him.   
Also yesterday he played too many hours, more than me.  I will say thinking before the match trying to be aggressive and trying to get every chance he give me.  I think I did well.   
 Q.  Your first Masters 1000 semifinal, what does that mean to you?  Was that remotely on year mind given your previous clay matches this year?  
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: It's great for me, being first time in the Masters 1000.  In Montreal I was very close to be in the semifinal.  I was not playing at that time my best tennis in that quarters.   
I'm very happy about today, beating Nishikori.  He's a great player in this kind of conditions, in Rome, on clay.  Nothing.  I'm really happy, now focus tomorrow.  Like you said before, and I said before, the clay season I didn't start in my best mood.  But right now this week I take a lot of confidence for the next tournament which is Roland Garros.   
 Q.  First set you were leading 5-0, then Kei came back.  Is that because you got a little bit nervous or passive, or Kei started playing better?  
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: Both things.  I think I was a little bit passive, not really aggressive, thinking maybe Kei was just focused on the second set and not any more in the first.   
But then was complicated.  He have the chance to get back and put everything 5-All.  He did two not very good mistakes in deuce, then my set point.  I won 6-4.   
The second set I think he keep playing a little bit better, but I still playing better than him.   
 Q.  You mentioned how playing two matches helped you get momentum.  When you saw you were going to play two matches in one day, were you excited about that opportunity?  
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: No.  100% no.   
 Q.  Still it helped you.  Why is that?  
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: I still being young.  I have the conditions to play two matches in one day.  Almost three, but they put me the dubs today.  I think is not great because of the rain have two matches for every single player.  Not every guy have the conditions to recovery well.   
Now we can see Roger, for example, is one of the best in the history, if he's not the best, maybe the two matches yesterday was enough for him to not be able to play in the 100%.  I think many players were not in the 100% conditions today because of the rain on Wednesday and playing two matches on Thursday.  Sometimes happen.  This is how it's happening this week.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT