AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 21, 2018
Diego Schwartzman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








R. NADAL/D. Schwartzman
6-3, 6-7, 6-3, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. A tough match.  How do you feel you performed against one of the best players in the world?
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: I feel great.  I think I did a good job inside the court.
I had many, many chances in the start of every set, having a lot of break points, and I couldn't win that points.  I think Rafa played good points in that moments, playing aggressive.  That's why he's one of the best in the history, because he play really good in that moments.
After the second set, also he start to serve a little bit better, start to win a lot of points with the serve.
Then in the fourth, I was a little bit tired, trying to do every point, trying to do the points, short points, and it was not easy against Rafa.  Tried to do that tactic.
Q. What kind of game plan did you have prior to the match?
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: Yeah, I played against him three times.  I always try to do the similar game, trying to be aggressive.  Sometimes try to do long points; sometimes short points.  Trying to serve in my best serves.  Tried to return well, also.
But against Rafa is not easy playing four hours in aggressive form and nothing.
I think I did a good job.  I had the chances, but Rafa played better than me in the important moments.
Q. What are the things he does well that, I don't know, most make it hard for you?
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: I think he's really aggressive every time.  He can play four hours aggressive.  He can play four hours -- he really, really intensive.  Is not easy for me.  For example, in the court four hours, trying to run every point, trying to do winners every point, is not easy to be focused four hours against him.
He can do easy.  And I think that is the best thing from him.
Q. What have you done in the last, let's say, year or so that's allowed you to step up your game and compete well at this level?
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: From last year?
Q. Yeah, even the last year or so.
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: Yeah, I think I improve a lot of things.  I have a lot of confidence inside the court.  In the Grand Slams, also, I like to play five sets.  I like to win on the court, trying to have many chances in the long matches.
I think I still improve.  I am focused outside the court, trying to practice well, do everything well.
Then try to do the same in the court.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT