U.S. OPEN
September 5, 2017
Diego Schwartzman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








P. CARRENO BUSTA/D. Schwartzman
6-4, 6-4, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Congratulations on how you have played in this tournament.
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: Thank you.
Q. Talk about the positives and takeaways.
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: The positive things?  About these two weeks, week and a half?  I think I have a lot to think.  Now it's too close to the match, I think, but I have a lot of things, positives, to think about this tournament, think about for the future.  And nothing.
I need to improve, like always, every week, but I feel really comfortable with myself to play like this week and a half, and I try to improve and try to do the best in the next year and next tournaments.
Q. You played some entertaining tennis out there.  The crowd was pushing for you.  Talk about the atmosphere and your takeaway on the match.
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: I think it's unbelievable there outside, playing in Arthur Ashe quarterfinals against a friend like Pablo.  I think the first two sets was close for both players, and we did very good points.  And nothing.  Always I think the people enjoy that.
I am really happy to play there in the Arthur Ashe and in the Grandstand and many courts here in the tournament, the crowd.  This year was amazing.  Many Argentinians, many people from here, and was really good.
Q. (Question about physical injuries.)
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: I mean, today I feel great, but yesterday was tough because I was thinking every time and when I was practicing yesterday, yesterday just in my leg and I feel pains in my body.  But today I feel good.
I felt good that the day was a little bit hotter than the others and was tough to play, but I think Pablo just play better than me.
Q. You had a chance in the second set to go 5-3.  Did you feel that was a big turning point?
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: Yeah.  I think sometimes that kind of games change the match.  I was three break points I have in that game, close break points.  I think he played really well, two break points, and then I did one forehand mistake.  Tough to understand, but then I think Pablo just play better than me.
In the first set he was always up.  In the third set, as well.  In this kind of match and with the opponent with confidence was tough.
Q. Juan Martin is still in the draw, obviously.  He draws so much affection and so much love.  What makes him a special guy?  What is special about him?
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: About him?
Q. Yes.
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: He's a big player.  He won here, this tournament, few years ago.  I think the people love him.  He's a big player.  He's trying to play again in 100%, and he's doing well, really well, this tournament.  He did amazing yesterday beating Dominic in five sets.
I think the people love that kind of games.
Q. Off the court, does he have any qualities that are special as a person to you?
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: Yeah.  I mean, we have good relationship outside the court.  He's Argentinian, and all Argentinians have good relationship outside the court.  He's now with Sebastian Prieto as a coach.  I was with him four years, and we always are speaking in the locker room.
Yeah, but he played different day than me, and not always we have the same hours here in the club.
Q. I remember you said the beginning of this year you are working on mental side.  In terms of that, this kind of a big result helps giving you, like, confidence, building up your mentality, mental aspect?
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: Yeah, I think I am improving a lot, and always the confidence, it's coming when you do this kind of tournaments.
I am doing really well this year.  A few tournaments I was in the weekend, and always the confidence coming after that weeks.
I am really happy with that, and I am trying to keep like this.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT