U.S. OPEN
September 3, 2017
Diego Schwartzman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








D. SCHWARTZMAN/L. Pouille
7-6, 7-5, 2-6, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Looked like you were in pretty big trouble at the end of the third set.  What were you feeling at that point and how were you able to still win the match?
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: Yeah, in the third set when I was 2-3, he broke my serve in the 2-All, then he served 3-2.  Start to feel some pain in my right leg.  Then was tough because I was just thinking about that.  Never happen to me something in the leg.  Just a few times in my career.  Was tough to be focus again of the match.
I think he have the chance in the fourth when he was a break up again.  Then he start maybe to be a little bit nervous, more than me.  I was just thinking in my leg.  I think that helping a lot to me to be more aggressive on the match and try to win every point.
I think in the final, the fourth set, I play really good tennis.
Q. You seem to love playing on Grandstand.  To what extent did the crowd help you out there today?
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: Yeah, always.  I mean, all the matches, they are helping a lot in the matches.  In the first round, second round as well, they are helping a lot to me.  When it's a tough moments on the matches, they are making noise with me, just to be with me on the match.  That is helping a lot always.  I am really happy for that and thanks everyone for doing that.
Q. After your last match you said that you get a lot of joy in the message to people who aren't so tall about your success, that tennis is for everyone.  What messages have you gotten back from people with your run here that maybe have made a special impression on you?
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: Yeah, I think they are enjoying more than other players maybe because of that, of that thing.  They are enjoying when I just do a game with that in the matches, maybe with the hands or everything.
I am enjoying with the people here.  When I win the matches, they are really happy with me.  Me, too, with them.  I think we are enjoying together to be here in the quarterfinals.
Q. What about the message as far as height and the role of height or not role of height in success in tennis?
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: I don't understand that.
Q. What message is your success sending about height in tennis.
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: Similar to the other day.  I mean, is not just for the big guys here.  The big guys have a little bit of advantage to play tennis because they can serve better, they can do a lot of things better.  If you are small, you just need to be focus in many things.
Is not easy, but I am here.  I am smaller than that guys, and nothing.  I am enjoying.  Maybe a lot of players like me can do in the next year.
Q. Back to your injury.  Were you surprised you were able to win that fourth set?
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: Yeah, I am really surprise because I was just thinking in the leg in the fourth set.  Maybe Lucas, as well.  That's why he can't deal well in the fourth.
Q. Thoughts on Carreno Busta next on Ashe?
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: No, I want to play (indicating an outside court)...
No, it's going to be really nice for me.  I am really happy to be in the quarterfinals this year.  More if I play against Pablo because he's my friend outside the court.  We have a good relationship in the locker rooms, and we have a lot of things outside the tennis life.
It's going to be really nice for both of us to play in the quarterfinals here in a Grand Slam.  Is nice.
Q. What about styles of play?  How would you describe his style versus your style?
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: I think we are similars.  We are similars.  We try to be solid in the baseline, play every point, be focus on every point, try to run a lot on the court.
I think it's going to be a tough match for both.  We need to be in our 100% to can play our best tennis.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT