U.S. OPEN
September 1, 2017
Diego Schwartzman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








D. SCHWARTZMAN/M. Cilic
4-6, 7-5, 7-5, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. A lot of ups and downs at the end of that match.  How were you able to close it out?
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: I think all the match was like this, was up and down.  Every time in the third set, as well.  I was a break up two times, I think, and then I can close the third set 7-5.
Then in the final of the match I think I start to be a little bit nervous.  When I served 5-2, I think he played much better than me.  I didn't do many mistakes.  But then in the 5-4, it was just one break, and there it start the nerves in my body and was really tough the last game, but I can win and I am really happy.
Q. He's got a really good serve.  How were you able to break him so many times?
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: I don't know.  I am trying every time to return well.  I keep improved the thing.  I always, in the practice, I stay five, ten more minutes doing returnings.  And nothing.  This time I can do it very well, and next match I need to do it again, because I know with my serve is not easy.  I need to do it every match good.
Q. How would you describe the opportunity that there is for you and some of the other young players who are not the famous guys that we have seen for so many years?
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: I think it's a little bit new era with many players, new players.  Many young players are playing amazing tennis.  Shapovalov, Zverev, Thiem, Coric are playing really, really well.  Nothing.  I am a little bit old than that guys (smiling).  But I try to improve every year.
Sometimes you can play better than two years before when you are 25, 26, and I think the years, for me, are really good.  I am improving year by year.
Q. What does it mean to you if you are indeed an inspiration for people who are not tall?
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: I hope maybe they can understand tennis is for everyone.  Is not just for the tall guys.
Sometimes it's helping a lot if you are big, because you can serve fast, you can do everything fast on the baseline because you have more, the arms are bigger than me.
But nothing.  I was always like this, and I always try to improve my tennis and try to don't think about.
Q. Next match, Pouille or Kukushkin?  And just generally the opportunity you have at this tournament.  There is no Top 10 guys left in the bottom half of the draw.
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: Yeah, I never look before my match who is the next opponent.  Just try to be focused on the match.  Yes, Pouille, big player, top 15, he's doing very good years.  If he win, it's going to be a really good match.  He's playing fast, aggressive.
Kukushkin, I think, is more just moving the ball.  We have Davis Cup in a few weeks in Kazakhstan, and he's from Kazakhstan.  If he win, it's going to be, like, some important match.
Q. As you were walking to the net, I think you were having some words either with yourself or with Cilic afterwards.  What was it you were saying as you were getting ready to embrace?
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: In the final of the match?
Q. At the end.
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: Yeah, I come back from one or two break points, and one of that break points, I try to do like this (raising arms in the air) just because I need some air and nothing else.  Was nothing about Marin.
And after the match, when he coming to the net, I just say sorry to him, because sometimes the opponent can't understand well the situation.  Nothing.  I just did good words for him, because he's a big player.  He's a really good guy inside the court.  Nothing else.
Q. Before the tournament began, there were players, big players you knew who were not going to be here:  Djokovic, Wawrinka, Murray.  There have been health problems that are widespread.  What does that give you in the sense of the opportunity that there is to make a run?
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: Yeah, sometimes if you have lucky in the draw and you can take the chances, it's always good for the new guys or for the guys who are out from the Top 10.
I think many players are doing well this week, and they are taking the opportunities because they are injured.  Many players are injured this week.  I think we are trying to take the chances and try to go forward in the tournament.
Q. To what degree did you surprise yourself today and to be this far here at the US Open?
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: Yeah.  About because I am in the fourth round?  Yeah, I am a little bit surprised, but the last weeks I was playing really well.  I did third round in Paris and quarters in Montreal.
I think my confidence, it's going up.  I think in every match I can win.  I am playing well and try to be like this every match.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT