ROLAND GARROS
June 4, 2018
Diego Schwartzman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
D. SCHWARTZMAN/K. Anderson   
1-6, 2-6, 7-5, 7-6, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  Can you just talk us through the emotions of going through that match and how you managed to pull it off?  
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: Not sure.  Not sure how I did.  I am saying that and repeating it, because I really don't know how I did.   
But was a tough match.  In the beginning of the first set, I didn't expect Kevin playing really, really aggressive, what he was doing a great job, and I was not playing my best.   
Then I just try to keep doing my work, just trying to be there, stay in the court, focus.  And I know in five sets it's really tough to beat some guys in three sets, and I was just thinking that on the match.  Then was really good finish in the end.   
 Q.  You were talking to the umpire in the third set I think about his shouting.  After that, you seem...  
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: But was not because of Kevin.  Yeah.  Because I saw the video, and it looks like I am talking about Kevin, and not Kevin.  It's respect in the court.  Was not against him.  I was saying because of another people outside the court.  Not inside.   
 Q.  People in the stands?  
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: Yeah, yeah.  That's why.   
 Q.  In his box?  
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: Yeah, yeah (smiling).   
 Q.  Did that change your mood or your attitude?  Because after that moment with the chair umpire, you seemed to start playing better and had more energy yourself maybe.  
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: Yeah, I was a little bit upset because in the beginning of the match I didn't expect the first two sets.  I was thinking about my first three matches here, and I started the match with confidence.  And then after one hour I was down 6-1, 6-2.  So I just trying to take something to stay on the court.   
Maybe that just helped me to be focused and, okay, I want to win now (smiling).   
But then I need tennis and to be focused all the time.   
 Q.  At the end of the second set when you were in your chair...  
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: You're the guy who Zverev is speaking every time?   
 Q.  Today, you are the guy.  
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: Yeah (smiling).   
 Q.  At the end of the second set when you were in the chair, what were you thinking and at that point did you honestly think in your heart that you could come back?  
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: I always think I can do my work on the court.  That is the first thing I am thinking when I am walk on to the court before the match.   
Okay, now I can do.  But then after the second set I try to start the third set doing or trying to be more aggressive, trying to play good points because he was dominating all the match the first two sets.   
And then in the third I trying to start to do that, but then he was playing better than me and he was break up and then serving for the match.  It was not easy.   
But then in the fourth I really see the chance to beat him.  Then he serve again for the match, but was good in my mind trying to keep doing the good things.   
 Q.  With the next match against Rafa, I guess are you able to step on to the court with full belief that you can beat him?  If so, let us know just where you can get that belief from.  
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: Always.  Always I believe I can do.  If it's not, I am not playing tennis.   
But Rafa here, I know it's his second home, and it's going to be a really tough match.   
I need to recover well, because against him I need to run a lot and do my best.  So nothing.  I need to be ready for the next match and do my best.   
 Q.  On that belief, how do you keep belief when you're in a tough match losing by two sets against a guy who looks like he's half a meter taller than you and playing better?  How do you keep the belief that you have the power to change this match?  
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: Did you read David and Goliath (smiling)?   
That's why.  That's why.  I read it when I was young in the school, and I just try to think that when I see Kevin or the guys who have two meters (smiling).   
 Q.  Maybe there is another Goliath in the next match for you.  I think in Barcelona you won four or five games in a row against Nadal.  
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: In Madrid.   
 Q.  Madrid.  So there must be some way to beat him and there must be some kind of weakness if you can do that.  Do you believe that?  
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: Yeah, I mean, this year in Australia I play against him in round of 16.  I won one set.  Then I have many, many chances, break points, and break up in many sets to keep doing good job against him.   
All the matches I played against him I have my chances.  So I need to recover well again, because to have that chances I need to be my 100% against him, and more here because he's always playing great tennis here.   
So, yeah, I know I am going to have chances, but then I need to take.   
 Q.  When you come back as impressively as you did today and you win the last two sets really convincingly, does that give you even more confidence going into your next match regardless of who the opponent is?  Do you feel on a high?  
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: Yeah, I think so.  I think so.  After the first three matches, I have a lot of confidence in my game playing good tennis.  Now I have confidence also with my legs, and I know here on clay I can play for hours and play five sets.  Yeah, it give me more confidence than before.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Spanish.   
 Q.  This was a feat, because you were down two sets and it was very hard.  It seems as though you couldn't get the right pace, either the forehand or the backhand, serve.  How did you get back into the match?  
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: Well, I started playing and I entered the court thinking that I was going to play as well as the three first matches.   
But at the beginning of the match, that wasn't the case.  It had rained a bit, and I couldn't do anything.  He had really very strong shots, and I couldn't even defend.   
He was playing well.  He was very aggressive.  One way or the other he just started lining up points and it was different from what I had imagined, because he's more of an aggressive player and he defended his game, as well.   
Then after these two first sets where he played better, in the third set I tried on a crossover backhand to play better.  And from then on he started getting a bit tired and he wasn't as accurate, unlike in the first two sets.   
I tried to take advantage of an opportunity.  I was lucky, because I took advantage of two of his mistakes when he was serving for the match.   
 Q.  Where do you place this win?  It's probably one of the most important ones.  But where would you locate it along your career?  
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: Well, very high, because I wasn't expecting such a match.  It was similar to the emotions that I felt with Thiem in Montreal last year, because I was losing and then I won.   
Today I felt a bit more confident, because I knew that when I entered the court I was very confident.  When I started being down two sets, I thought even if I started playing well and he started playing a bit worse, it could change and turn around the match.   
The third was better.  I improved.  But I wasn't playing at best.  And the fourth and fifth were much better.   
Obviously it's definitely one of the most emotional matches that I can say I have played.   
 Q.  Your friend Rafa told us that he wouldn't invite you more to the academy because...  
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: I took his secrets.  He has all the recipes (smiling).   
What I can say is I had a great time there, like last year, I'm really very grateful to him and his team.  Now I'm going to try and enter the court and beat him and take advantage of all I learned with him.   
 Q.  A few weeks ago you played with him in Madrid.  What lessons do you draw from that part?  And do you think that you're more confident to beat him here?  
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: I drew a number of good conclusions.  Especially in the second set I had good chances to remain in the match and prolong it, possibly not win it.  I was playing well.  And he made a few mistakes.   
And then there was also the match in Australia that I could think about.  Although it was on a quick surface, both of us play more a game, a clay court type of game.   
To have any opportunities, I really have to play at my best.  I know that I did get a few chances, but I wasn't able to seize the opportunity.  I hope I do it on Wednesday.   
 Q.  Playing on Philippe Chatrier, since it's a very large court, there are very deep balls.  Do you think it's going to be hard?  
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: Yes, that's very important.  In Madrid the court was very big.  Maybe it's a bit smaller than in Madrid.  But against him, I can't give in any space.  I have to be very close to the line to be very aggressive.  When you're in a large court, you don't exactly know where you are, and you have to.   
 Q.  You mentioned David and Goliath.  What did you mean about that?  We know, but we want to hear you describe it.  
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN: Well, you know, it's maybe when you're not as strong or you're not as tall as Anderson, you can still win the match.   
I think that people like me more, as well, for that, because they were supporting me.  They wanted me to remain in the game.  The fact that he was twice as tall as me was a reason for me to try and remain.   
But on serve, you can have a very good serve whether you're tall or small.  That didn't have anything to do with it.   
Maybe when he got tired he wasn't as coordinated and his serve wasn't as good.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT