ROLEX PARIS MASTERS
November 6, 2020
Diego Schwartzman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








D. MEDVEDEV/D. Schwartzman
6-3, 6-1
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
Q. Can you just talk about today?  What do you think Daniil was doing that made him particularly difficult to play today?
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN:   Well, I think Daniil played a great match, but -- I mean, I know how he played.  Everyone knows how he played.  And he can play really good matches, but I think I did a really bad match on my side, you know.
I was doing everything bad today.  It can happen, but it's disappointed.  I arrive to the match playing good tennis, playing really good weeks before here, and nothing.  Was a disappointed match.
Now more than that, I have to not thinking about this match for many hours or days but I know that I did many things really bad today.  You know, many mistakes.  I was not solid, I was not doing defenses.  It was a really horrible match from my side (smiling).
Q. Do you think it played a bit of a factor knowing you could secure qualification with a win today?  Or that was not too much on your mind?
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN:   I mean, I'm not thinking about that, and I don't think Daniil was thinking about that.  No, I don't think so.
Q. I realize it's difficult talking after a loss like this.  I wanted to find out, when you play Daniil, of course there is such a big height difference, he's about 6'6" and you're about 5'7".  Does that make it difficult to play against him because of the difference in height?
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN:   What do you think?  I'm every single day playing against guys who are bigger than me, so I don't understand the question.  Why you didn't ask yesterday when I won (smiling)?
No, I mean, I don't understand the question, really.  Every day I'm playing against guys who are bigger than me, so no, it's clear that it's not make difference.
Q. A question on Daniil's serve.  He was 93% on his first serve and he had 8 aces.  Was that difficult trying to get the return back on his first serve today?
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN:   Well, yes, and when I'm having a good day on the return side and feeling good and having breakpoints and breaking my opponent, I'm feeling good.
Today it didn't happen.  He was serving really well.  Many, many first serves in the first set.  Then in the second he played a few points with the second.
But I think at the end I was not doing a solid match.  And against Daniil, you have to put every single point, 15, 20 balls, not trying to do winners quickly and not trying to go to the net quickly.
I think I didn't have the patience to do it today, so that's was the difference.  Obviously he was serving good, and that is one of the things that I have to improve for the next match.
Q. Will you keep an eye on Pablo Carreno's match today with Rafa?  Will you watch?  Because that result also affects you in a way.
DIEGO SCHWARTZMAN:   Yeah, yeah.  Since I won yesterday I'm just watching Pablo, because it's the only opponent I have right now.
Yeah, we were joking yesterday about the next tournament in Sofia, if he's going to play or if he's going to win this tournament.  But, yeah, obviously I'm watching right now because I'm not anymore in the tournament, and today maybe I hope Rafa win (smiling).






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT