THE RYDER CUP MEDIA CONFERENCE
February 2, 2010
Andrew Chandler
Gerald Lawless
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


  GORDON SIMPSON: Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your attendance. It's good to see so many of you still here after the Ryder Cup announcement that we made earlier today.
 We have a twofold purpose for being here this afternoon. One is to announce Rory's continued association with Jumeirah, which you'll here about more in a few moments, and the second is to hear the champion's thoughts on his defence of the OMEGA Dubai Desert Classic title on Thursday.
 First and foremost, I would like to introduce the top table. On my immediate left we have Andrew "Chubby" Chandler, who is the managing director of ISM. Next to Chubby is Gerald Lawless, the executive chairman of the Jumeirah Group, and next to Gerald is our defending champion,Rory McIlroy.
 (Video played depicting Rory touring Dubai and viewing Jumeirah properties in a hot air balloon). 
 GORDON SIMPSON: From the hot air balloon into some more hot air then. (Laughter).
 I think we have the contract here for signing but before anything else, we'll hear from the three gentlemen on the top table. So I think Gerald, would you care to say a few words, please. 
 GERALD LAWLESS: Thanks very much for attending this afternoon. And I say to Rory, that if you ever give up the day job, sales and marketing at Jumeirah, you're always very welcome.
 We have been really proud and privileged to be associated with Rory right from the beginning. I think it's only fair to say that Alaister Murray, who is our chief financial officer sitting at the back row there, also from is also from the same town in Northern Ireland. And they have been talking to me right from the beginning: "We have a young amateur in Northern Ireland, we have to sponsor him." And every year, he comes back, "He's really doing well, he's doing really well, we have to sponsor him."
 "So stop talking about it, go and do it."
 When Rory was ready to turn pro, we were ready to talk to him. Between Rory's enthusiasm and Chubby's fantastic sense of administration and also enthusiasm to work with us, finally got us to agree with Chubby and with Rory that Jumeirah would be the principal sponsor and something that obviously we have been very proud of. 
 It's something that is unusual for a CEO or for an executive chairman to be in a position where the CFO is trying to tell you to spend money. So thanks, Alaister, for everything you have done there.
 And thanks Rory and Chubby for your support and the great friendships that you've developed with all of the team. And you've become very much part of the Jumeirah team. And we are delighted to continue our association with yourselves. Good luck with the defence of the championship, Rory. 
 GORDON SIMPSON: Chubby? 
 CHUBBY CHANDLER: Guys, it's been an interesting road, actually, because when Rory turned pro, he was obviously going to be quite big demand from companies, and it was the plan to sort of internationalise him early, and this was pretty international as far as I was concerned, to have Dubai as a main sponsor. It's turned out to be a fantastic move for both Rory and ourselves, because I think probably nearly every one of our players is staying in the Jumeirah Hotel this week, as well. So it's filtered through to the company, as well as to Rory.
 But I just love the way they look after him. The corporate commitments are never too difficult, apart from dumping in their hot air balloon, Mary. But they look after his mum and dad. They look after Rory. He has holidays with them. He went to New York to Jumeirah Essex House between Christmas and new year's, things like that. So it becomes a bigger relationship than just a sponsorship. 
 We are delighted for it to carry on because it's worked successfully and I have a feeling that -- I hope people go into Carlton Tower in London and think, Rory McIlroy is sponsored by this lot. That's how you know you're getting somewhere. I think from Jumeirah's point of view, they picked the right person, and I think Rory is very comfortable and certainly I am with the relationship. It's been great. 
 GORDON SIMPSON: We did hear a few words from you when you were up in the air there, so maybe just reiterate what you said. 
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, I'm very happy. We have already been associated with Jumeirah for the last three years and then to re-sign again for the next three years, it's going to be fantastic.
 As Chubby said, we have built up such a great relationship, and that will only get stronger in the next few years. You know, Jumeirah look after not just myself but my family tremendously. I'm staying in the Burj Al Arab this week with Mum and Dad. And as Chubby said, we spent a bit of time in New York over the new year at Essex House. And it's just great to know that wherever you go in the world, you're going to stay in a top-class hotel and the service going to be phenomenal. 
 As I said in the video there, I feel very lucky that I have someone like that supports me 100 per cent, and without that commitment, I probably wouldn't be where I am today. So I'm very thankful to Jumeirah.
 CHUBBY CHANDLER: I have to say, it took some doing to get him to win this tournament last year, just to coincide with the sponsorship. (Laughter).
 GORDON SIMPSON: Before the contract is officially signed, just to say if there are any questions for the gentlemen on the top table about the Jumeirah agreement, please fire away, and then we'll move on to the tournament after the contracts have been signed. 

 Q. I would like to ask Gerald, what was the feeling like in Jumeirah when Rory won the Dubai Desert Classic last year? 
 GERALD LAWLESS: We were absolutely totally thrilled, and I mean, it just couldn't be a more special delivery of his first tournament win to win it in Dubai, the home of Jumeirah. So you know, what more could you ask for? 
 And then, also, for Rory to have done so well in The Race to Dubai, in the first significant -- the first tournament of that year-long race, was something that surprised and delighted us; not because we were so surprised that Rory would do well, but just again with the Dubai association that he would feature so prominently. 
 And indeed, how well he did in Abu Dhabi, so, hey, come on, we are looking forward to a great performance, as well. Thanks so much, Rory. Well done. 
 RORY McILROY: Thank you. 
 GORDON SIMPSON: So that's the end of part one. Part two will now begin. I think we will just go straight into Q&A about the OMEGA Dubai Desert Classic 2010, so if anyone has got any questions, please raise your hand and we'll begin. We'll start with Ireland. 

 Q. So far, Rory, as defending champion, has there been any different feeling coming into this week as compared to the feelings that you get going into any other tournament? 
 RORY McILROY: Not really. I mean, I think the thing about this tournament is it's become very familiar to me, because I think this is my fifth Desert Classic, which is -- this is the event I've played most on The European Tour. I think that's why I've become so comfortable here at the Emirates Golf Club and as the tournament goes, and I feel very comfortable on the golf course because I've got to know it so well over the past few years.
 But it doesn't feel any different. You go and you get on with your practise rounds and your preparation, and you know, I'm just trying to win a golf tournament again. 
 Obviously there's great memories from last year, and it doesn't really feel that different.

 Q. Only positives, no extra pressure?
 RORY McILROY: Only positives.

 Q. What was the biggest memory of last year? 
 RORY McILROY: I suppose it was when the final putt went in, the relief of, I haven't blown this one. 
 Yeah, it was just the relief of holing that last putt, because that final round was full of emotions. I got myself into a big lead early and I let it slip and I got myself into a bigger lead in the middle and then I let that slip. And then I was just able to hold it together on the last hole and get that up-and-down. So that was the biggest memory. 
 You know, the week after was pretty good, as well, at home celebrating with all of my family and stuff, because it felt to me as if it was a long time coming because I put myself in great positions. I had wanted to get our first one before Dubai last year, but I suppose it was -- there was no better place to win than in Dubai for me last year. 

 Q. How much do you think you've progressed as a player from this time last year?
 RORY McILROY: A lot. You know, I've gained a lot of experience since that win last year, and I've put myself in a lost great positions to win golf tournaments that I haven't quite -- haven't quite finished off. But I've learnt from those experiences and I feel as if I'm a more-rounded player. I feel as if when I get myself into those positions now that I feel a lot more comfortable in final rounds and final groups. 

 Q. I just wanted to ask Chubby a question. When Rory won here last year, you remember we sat down after the tournament, and you said Rory was like a rough diamond at the moment, just needed a little bit more polish and watch him shine. How would you assess now?
 CHUBBY CHANDLER: I would say it's a work-in-progress. I think it will be a while before he's a finished diamond, won't he. You would say he's very good now, wouldn't you. 
 So the experience -- the trouble is you only gain four bunches of major experience every year. So it's quite a process to build up a bank of experience to win majors. 
 So I think it would be unfair to think he might do this year or next year. But it's possible. I would think that by the I'm he's the ripe old age of 23, he'll feel it's about time, if he's not there already.
 It's one of those -- Abu Dhabi, I know how disappointed he was on Sunday night. But you know, when you look back on it, he shot 67 in the last round trying to win a tournament. And that would have won a lot of times, but the other two came out so quick; it felt like you were playing catch up. I think lessons like that and the experience of playing; if you look at his schedule, every tournament he plays is a very good tournament. 
 You have a look at that, and he's going to be in contention maybe ten, 12 times out of 25 tournaments, then that's a bunch of experience, and hopefully two or three of those will be majors. But it's definitely moving in the right direction. Rory is very clever. He adds little things to his game and his setup as he goes along and nobody realises it. It's interesting watching the progression. 

 Q. What have you added to your game?
 RORY McILROY: That would be telling. (Laughter).
 You know, different shots you experiment with. A lot of people don't know I've been working with a physio now for the last year and a half. I think that's made a big improvement to my game. Sort of ironed out a few things, you know, I suppose in my body that weren't so good. And now that I am on the road to getting them better, I can put the club in a better position and from there, obviously make better swings and hit better shots. 
 So you know, there's a lot of things that I've done, just to try -- and obviously with the practise facility going into the house pretty shortly, as well; that will add another dimension so at home I can practise all the time and have all of the time in the world to try and get better.

 Q. Eight Top-10s, I think it is, in the last ten tournaments, or maybe top 5s. That is showing a level of consistency which is of the highest cast. When people talk about consistency, are you still as aggressively enjoying it, even though you've become consistent? 
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, definitely, because if you are having eight or ten top 5s or whatever it is, you've always got a chance to win. And that's why pros practise so much is for the chance to win tournaments and the buzz that you get from competing on the last day. 
 You know, it's great to have eight Top-5s in your last ten events, but if you don't have a win in there somewhere, it's not that good. So that's what I'm trying to get. That's the level that I'm trying to get to. 

 Q. This tournament last year pretty much changed your life, the starting point. Can you look back on what it felt like coming in last year, and then what are some of the big changes to your life since then?
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, I mean, I was coming in here last year, I was just happy to be in the Top-50 in the world and to play all of the majors and everything and the World Golf Championships. I think this win got me to 15th in the world, and in a way, it didn't change -- it obviously changed and got a lot more attention and everything. 
 I suppose in a way, at home it hasn't really changed much. I'm still the same person and everything. But it's sort of a tough one to answer. I don't feel as if anything has changed that much. I just feel as if I've become a better player from it and I've learnt a lot from it, and I try to put that into practise when I'm playing tournaments.

 Q. You've gained a lot of things: Financially, you're set pretty much --but what are some of the things that you've lost?
 RORY McILROY: But that doesn't matter. 

 Q. What are some of the things that you've lost? 
 RORY McILROY: Not much, really. I suppose, I don't know, I'm still just trying to go out and win golf tournaments and that's all I'm really worried about. 

 Q. Obviously this tournament means a lot to you, the Dubai Desert Classic, but more than that, you've been playing here for five years, this tournament recognised you for two years as one of the leading amateurs in the game and gave you an exemption. Can you just tell us as a whole what does the Dubai Desert Classic mean to you?
 RORY McILROY: It's massive. The two years that I played as an amateur, you know, golf in DUBAi gave me the opportunity to play here, and gain valuable experience that not many other people could get I suppose. I was very thankful to have that opportunity and to make the cut as an amateur was really special. 
 As I said at the start, I just feel very, very comfortable here on this golf course and at this tournament, and I think that's why I did so well last year. I feel as if I've got all of the shots now that I need around this golf course, and you know, it's a course that I feel I can shoot a really good score on. 
 So that's one of the -- and you know, the facilities here are fantastic, and obviously with the relationship with Jumeirah growing, this is my -- coming into four years in September, or three years in September -- a long time. (Laughter).
 Yeah, it's been fantastic. I feel very comfortable here, and it's a nice week because Mum and Dad are out, and they enjoy themselves here and we have got to know the city so well and we know the good places to eat and everything. So it's been really good. 

 Q. What is, in fact, going to be in this practise facility that's going into the house? 
 RORY McILROY: I have on one side of the house, I have a short game area which is going to consist of a 600-square metre chipping green with run-offs and bunkers and everything. And around the green I'm going to have three par 3s, differing sort of yardages and everything. And then on the other side of the house I'm going to have a range that's going to be about 240, 250 yards long. 
 So I'll basically have everything there and I'm going to get like a -- I'm going to put a room inside the house that's going to be like a studio and sort of have all of the equipment in there that -- you know, sort of the same thing as what Padraig has got at the minute at his house, like Paul Hurrion could come over and give me a lesson there and Michael Bannon can come to the house and everything. 
 So it makes it a lot easier that you don't have to go somewhere else; you can always stay at home if the weather allows you to. 

 Q. I was going to say, are you going to put a roof on it? 
 RORY McILROY: No. 

 Q. The weather we've had this winter --
 RORY McILROY: I know, it hasn't been good, has it. Hopefully we can not have too many winters like that for the future.

 Q. As you become more celebrated in the game, as you travel more and as you're expected to achieve more, more pressure comes on you, is it harder and harder for you to practise the standard that you want to? Does it get more difficult as you rise through the game?
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, a little bit, because the demands on your time become more and more. You have to find the time to fit your practise in. 
 But tournaments like this week, I feel very comfortable with my game and I know the amount of practise that is needed to sustain that level. And I'm one that if I'm playing well in a tournament, I'll just do enough to keep my game at that level, because I know if I go and hit it well on the golf course, I'm going to shoot a pretty good score and I feel very comfortable with my game this week and not much is needed. 
 I think the only thing I really need to do this week is to practise a lot of chipping out of that long rough that's around the greens, because the golf course is set up great and if you miss greens by two or three yards, you can get some really bad lies in the rough. That's one of the things I've been practising a bit.

 Q. Have you noticed any difference with the grooves?
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, big time. It just doesn't -- it just comes out like a topspin. It just releases. You've just got to play for it. 
 As I said, in Abu Dhabi, you can't short-side yourself anymore and expect to stop it within three or four feet. You have to let it release. I suppose that's erring on the safe side a little bit, but it's just something everyone will have to get used to.

 Q. It won't make you reign yourself in, perhaps? 
 RORY McILROY: A little bit. You know, par 4s like the 17th out here, you wouldn't think twice about taking a driver and just hitting it straight at the green. But now with the grooves, if the pin is in an awkward position, you're better off just hitting the 5-wood and a full wedge that you know you're going to get control off the fairway.
 And even the practise round today, the pin was on the front right of the green, only three or four paces on, and I had a 50-yard chip shot and I still couldn't really stop it, just because it's -- the ball, it just doesn't grip in the grooves as much as it used to. 

 Q. Do you agree with the change? What do you think of it? 
 RORY McILROY: I mean, I don't see the reason why they just can't firm greens up and get the rough longer to bring the scores down. I mean, that's my view on it. They can make golf courses a lot tougher and turn 20-under par winning scores into 12-under par winning scores. But I mean, I think people like to see birdies, as well. I don't see any reason why they are trying to make the game more difficult. 

 Q. Are they in effect trying to make you guys feel a little uncomfortable or stupid? Is that the feeling? 
 RORY McILROY: I don't think so. I just think they are trying to bring the whole professional game and amateur game closer together a little bit. I don't know, I mean, I don't -- when I turn on the TV and I'm watching a tournament, I don't like to see guys struggling for pars all the time. I like to see birdies and people hitting close and everything. 
 With the new grooves, that's going to be a little harder to do.

 Q. So you'll be with Phil then? 
 RORY McILROY: I wouldn't put a PING wedge in the bag. Stick to my Titleist. (Laughter).

 Q. You're back in the world's Top-10, does that give you a little bit of extra buzz? 
 RORY McILROY: It's lovely when you take a week off and you move up a couple of spots (chuckling). It's brilliant. 
 Yeah, it's going to be like that all year. It's nice to be back into the Top-10 in the world. But you know, there's still -- I mean, it's so -- I think I said this in Abu Dhabi, the gap between 12th in the world and 5th in the world is so small. If someone came out here this week and won and they are in 13th or 14th position, they could get themselves into the top 5 very easily.

 Q. And how would you rate your last year between the win and here, how would you rate it? 
 RORY McILROY: It was very satisfactory. It was a year of everything was new to me, the majors were new and the World Golf Championships were new and I felt as if I handled it pretty well. As I said, I've gained a lot of experience in them and I feel that experience will help me a lot this year and hopefully I'll perform even better in them.

 Q. What do you expect to achieve this year, and what do you want to achieve?
 RORY McILROY: I suppose getting to the quarterfinal at the Match Play, so I would like to go better than that. Just try to keep improving and try to keep the progress going. Even in Abu Dhabi last year, or the last three years, first time there I finished 11th and then finished 5th and this year I finished third. If I can just keep getting my finishes better and better every year, you know, that's all I want really is to try and get better. 

 Q. You've got obviously sponsors, you've got a home, you've got a loving family, you've got your World Ranking exemptions and etc., is there anything that worries you? 
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, over-drive; I don't like seeing the ball going too far right-to-left. I'm enjoying it at the minute and I'm very fortunate to be playing the game I love for a living. I'm in a groove at the minute and I just want to keep it going. That's basically it. 
 I know I have to keep working hard to keep this run going, but if I can do that, hopefully I can keep getting better and better and try and achieve what I want to in the game, which is ultimately trying to get to be the best player in the world.

 Q. So there's no chance of complacency?
 RORY McILROY: No, definitely not.

 Q. Do you believe there's a lot to come?
 RORY McILROY: Yes, I think so. You know, as Chubby said, to gain experience every year in the four majors and everything, and by the time I'm 24, 25, I'll have played, you know, 20, 25 majors or whatever. So hopefully by then, I should know how to finish them off. 
 That's obviously the ultimate goal is to try and win major championships and try to become the best player that I can be. 

 Q. Looking back from afar, what did you feel about riding in the balloon there, and have you woken up with a cold sweat since?
 RORY McILROY: I was gripping and my knuckles were white. (Laughter).
 It was a great experience. It was great to see Dubai from 3,500 or 4,000 feet or whatever it was. It was great to see the old town and then look into the marina, looking out to the desert. There's still a lot of -- there's still a lot of space in Dubai to build. I don't think they will be building that much for a while. 
 It's an amazing experience but I won't be rushing back into the basket any time soon. 
 GORDON SIMPSON: Okay, everyone, well, Rory, thank you very much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT