ABU DHABI GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 22, 2010
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   RORY McILROY: From tee-to-green it was very good, but I've always sort of struggled on these greens to read them. 

 Q. Because? 
 RORY McILROY: I don't know. I don't know if it's just because there's a tiny bit of grain in there, they are not really like a green colour, sort of more like a browny colour-ish. I struggled to read them again today. 
 I hit a lot of good putts that I thought were going to go in and they didn't. But I mean if that's my worst round of the week, then it won't be too bad.

 Q. It looked to us like the grain has been cut out of them; is there more grain than we think? 
 RORY McILROY: There still is a little bit of grain in them, but you know, it's sort of, I think it's just more the colour and you can't -- there's no definition to the slopes, so it's hard to really, especially because there's a lot of subtle slopes on these greens, as well. 
 If I can just keep giving myself chances like that today and convert a few more over the weekend, I should be okay.

 Q. From a striking point of view, you must be very positive, you mentioned the putting, what will you do to try and turn that around? 
 RORY McILROY: I feel my stroke is pretty good. I just need to -- I've been working with a chalk line for awhile and I'll go to the putting green and do that drill again. I such suppose just get my confidence up, see a few of them going into the hole. That's all you can do, hit it where you read it and make a good stroke and see what happens I suppose.

 Q. And come what may, a fine position to be in going into the weekend?
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, obviously two behind Sergio at the minute, depends what the boys do this afternoon, but I'm not going to be too far away. Still in good position going into the weekend but you know, in the back of my mind I know that I could be a lot closer if not ahead. 

 Q. What was the scale of your expectation? It's all high but coming into the first event of the season. 
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, I didn't think that I would start so well. You know, to be honest, I did struggle a little bit last week with my practise session. 
 I didn't hit it as well as I thought -- well, as well as I could, but this week, it's a lot different, as well, you know, just practising and then whenever you get into tournament mode, you know that your focus just gets that much better and you can really concentrate on what shot you want to hit. 
 And I've always been one to get into tournament rounds and feel as if I've hit it better rather than playing practise rounds and without any pressure, I feel as if whenever I get on to the golf course in a tournament like this being I can really focus on playing some good golf. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT