OMEGA MISSION HILLS WORLD CUP
November 29, 2009
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   RORY McILROY: It's been a great week I think myself and Graeme really enjoyed it, especially out there together, being in the hunt today, it was a really good feeling. It's a pity we were not able to pull it off. We both played pretty average to be to be honest. We shot 2-under but it could have been a lot better than that. 
 But you know, it's been a great week, and it was a pleasure to play with Graeme and it was a pleasure to try and win a title with them. It just wasn't meant to be. 
 You know, we got lucky in a couple of spots today on the 9th and on 11 where it could have really went wrong for us there and it didn't. So we can't say we didn't have the luck with us. We just didn't make the most of it.

 Q. Sadly you just didn't have the luck at last because that was an excellent put by Graeme and just didn't drop?
 RORY McILROY: You know, it looked in the whole way. To be honest the greens have been pretty slow all week. We found it hard all week to hit long putts hard enough to get it to the hole. You know, it's just very difficult, and obviously you know with the Swedes in at 28, you didn't want to blast it by, either, and leave me a tricky one. 
 But you know, all credit to the Italians. They played great today. Great up-and-down at the last. Francesco's bunker shot was very, very good and they deserved it. They were the ones that when they got the title, whenever they had it in their hands they kept hold of it.

 Q. Quite something for any nation to win it but when you consider is two brothers that makes it even more special. 
 RORY McILROY: It does. I'm very happy for them. For two brothers to go out and win a title like this, it's incredible. It will be a great sense of satisfaction in the family, I would say, tonight, but also the whole country. If it wasn't going to be us to win today, you know, I wouldn't begrudge the Italians to win it. They played great today. They deserved it.

 Q. Did you like your first taste of it? 
 RORY McILROY: It was great. It was fantastic. As I said at the start of the week, to win on your own is very special; to win with a partner and experience the same feelings coming down the stretch is pretty cool. And hopefully I can come back next year and Graeme can come with me and we'll give it another shot.

 Q. OMEGA are looking to get this back to it's heyday and I think if players like yourself were to keep backing it and to keep want to go win it, it does wonders are to the tournament? 
 RORY McILROY: Exactly. I think they might redo the schedule and might have it once every two years now or something, and put the two years prize fund into the one year, so that will attract a lot of big players to come, as well. Hopefully this tournament is moving in the right direction and it can get back to the way it was a few decades ago. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT