THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 8, 2019
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You must be pleased with the start?  
RORY McILROY: Yeah, pleased with the start.  You know, didn't get off to a great start this morning.  Bogeyed the first hole, which was the 10th, but played really well after that.  Played 7-under from there on in with no bogeys.   
I saw some better iron shots than I did in Memphis.  I drove it just as good.  I putted nicely.  It's so soft out there, you need to shoot low scores this week to have a chance.  Obviously I'm still three shots behind the lead at this point and there are some pretty good players that have shot good scores, so just going to try to have to keep the foot down.   
It was soft, any ways, with all the rain over the last 24 hours.  It's even softer.  Obviously a few mud balls out there, which put you in two minds a couple of times.  Yeah, look, there's not much rough out there, anyway, so it's sort of bombs away with the driver and try to get it up as far as you can and go from there.  It's definitely a golf course that you're going to have to keep being aggressive on this week.   
 Q.  The leaderboard seems to have players that have been consistent over the course of the season.  Is that a byproduct of the golf course or what the tournament has become?  
RORY McILROY: I think so.  It could be a coincidence that those -- us three, you look, Brooks played okay today, he just didn't really get anything going.  Yeah, DJ I think shot 9 in the end, held a long putt at the last.  Jon is 7 I think.   
But scores are out there.  The par 5s are all reachable.  There's a couple of shorter par 4s, and if you take care of your business on those gettable holes -- it's so soft, it's sort of hard to get yourself really out of position or short-side yourself that you're struggling for pars.   
So yeah, you know, you've got to expect the guys like DJ or Rahm or any of the guys that are in the Top-10 of the standings are going to come and play well.   
 Q.  Is it more fun, like you said, when it's kind of bombs-away and you know you have to make birdies?  Is that a more fun style?  
RORY McILROY: Yeah, I watched the Presidents Cup here a couple of years ago and I guess they got the course really firm that week, and that looked really fun to play.  Guys were getting it -- obviously the routing was different and they played the 5th hole as the 1st hole, and I remember watching it, guys were getting it up near the front of the green because it was so firm and windy.   
I think this course could be fun playing it that way, but you have to take what you get.  This week, we've gotten a soft golf course and just try to play it the best we can.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT