ABU DHABI GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 23, 2010
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   SCOTT CROCKETT: Thank you for joining us. A long day for you, but a good one nevertheless, 67, and a very good position in the tournament. Just give us your thoughts on, well, firstly today, your position in the tournament and looking ahead to tomorrow.  
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, today was great. I thought the scoring was very good considering the conditions. You know, it was quite windy out there, it was getting quite gusty towards the end. Really pleased with 67 out there.   
 You know, I didn't make too many mistakes, and you know, put myself in great position going into tomorrow. Obviously finishing on 14-under, myself and Martin, and Ian is one ahead of us. So it should be a good battle tomorrow and it looks as if we are all playing very well so it should be an interesting day.  
 SCOTT CROCKETT: Seemed like a day where you and Ian were spurring each other on; was that the case?   
 RORY McILROY: We both got off to very fast starts, which helped. I was 3-under through five and he was 3-under through four.   
 So we got off to fast starts, which always helps, and we just managed to keep it going. I hit into a couple of bunkers on the back nine and put myself in a couple of tricky positions and was able to get it up-and-down and keep my round going.   
 SCOTT CROCKETT: Everyone is looking forward to tomorrow certainly amongst us; an exciting three-ball going out in the end.  
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, can't wait. Whenever you can go out in the final group on the final day of a tournament, you know you've played well.   
 So yeah, it will be great. It's a great way to start the new year, getting right into contention in your first tournament, so hopefully I can make the most of it.   
  
  Q. Sorry to focus on the one mistake you seemed to make on the 10th, what happened there?   
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, I had 243 to the pin and hit a 5-wood, and the wind was sort of straight right-to-left, and thought I needed all of it to get it there. I just flushed it and it was sort of -- I was hitting back into it at the start but between it was going -- I hit it into the back of the green and went into the sand in the desert there.   
 Finished in a pretty awkward lie, and just sort of slashed it out and didn't get up-and-down. It's always disappointing to bogey a par 5, but I came back pretty nicely with a birdie on 12.   
  
  Q. Your version of why the drug testing takes so long?   
 RORY McILROY: I was waiting for Mikko to finish, and he finished and I went the first time, and then I got stage fright, because I have to -- obviously they have to watch you do everything. And I think I drank -- I must have drank three litres of water in the space of about 20 minutes. And then the second time, I just waited for a few minutes and then went again. The whole process is pretty long. You have to pick your cup and make sure it's not tampered with, and once you've made your sample, seal it and put it in three separate bottles.  
  
  Q. How many times have you had to go through this?   
 RORY McILROY: This is the first time I've had to do it on The European Tour. I did it last year at the Honda Classic, and I had to wait for Sergio in front of me who took about two and a half hours trying, so an hour is not bad.   
  
  Q. Martin Kaymer has shot three 67s, if he shoots another one, do you think you can beat him?  
 RORY McILROY: Well, there's no reason why I couldn't. At the start of the week, I didn't think anything in the 20s would win, but obviously you know, everyone played really well, straight out, first tournament of the year and everything. I would say it's a very good target I suppose, 20-under would be.   
 It just depends, obviously if someone behind us -- it's still quite bunched, so someone behind us could get off to a fast start and really get it going. If one of us shoots 67 tomorrow, we have a very good chance.   
  
  Q. So 20-under is possible?  
 RORY McILROY: It depends. If the weather is the same -- if the wind is the same as what it was today, then I think 20-under would be a great target. I don't think that that would be beaten.   
 But if it's not as windy tomorrow, and obviously they will put the pin positions in some tricky spots on the last day. I suppose you've just got to see where you are going into the back nine and set yourself a target and see if you can get to that.   
  
  Q. I was going to allude to that in a way, because last year, you had that great run of top finishes, does that give you confidence tomorrow, only one shot off the lead and to really go for it, knowing there's no pressure on you to win?   
 RORY McILROY: In a way, I suppose looking at my last few final rounds, I've been pretty good, 63 in China, 64 in Hong Kong, 67 in Dubai. So if I can keep that up, then I'll have a good chance. You know, as I said at the start of the week, I've only one once on Tour and I'll just be putting pressure on myself to pick up another title.   
  
  Q. Wondering, if you could say which tournaments you're going to play first in America?  
 RORY McILROY: The Match Play.   
  
  Q. Given the conditions, how much difference did it make to your club selection today?   
 RORY McILROY: It was probably a one to two-club wind on a few holes. I had 174 into the 17th hole, straight into the wind and I hit 6-iron and I came up, you know, ten to 12 yards short.   
 So that's definitely a two-club wind there and it depends what area on the golf course, certain areas, like the 15th tee box -- once you hit your shot, the wind kicks in and it was playing 183, so it was a pretty big wind and as I said at the start, I think it was exceptionally good scoring today, considering the conditions.  
  
  Q. Can you tell us what you hit in on 18, it was a great shot, how far back were you?   
 RORY McILROY: It was in off the left. I had 243 yards. I hit 3-wood straight into the wind. I think it finished exactly 250. So it was a nice shot to finish on.   
  
  Q. Ian Poulter will be the old man of the three ball tomorrow at age 33; it's incredible how young the age is getting on The European Tour, when you look at Chris Wood and Shane Lowry, as well, is this something --  
 RORY McILROY: It's exciting times for The European Tour. You just had Charl win the last couple of events in South Africa, and he's only 24, 25, seems like he's been around forever. It's great for The European Tour.   
 But I suppose one of the reasons that guys are getting so good so early is because they don't -- we don't have the college system over here. I'm not trying to take anything away from the American college system, but it might hold players back a little too long. I mean, four years is a long time to go, and maybe a couple of years might do them, like what Tiger did, I suppose.  
  
  Q. Inaudible.  
 RORY McILROY: I'm sure a couple of years ago, he finished third in the NCAAs in the sophomore year, so I'm sure he was good enough to go on Tour back then.  
  
  Q. Is it more fun playing with younger guys?   
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, because you can talk about more stuff. I can't really talk to guys about my kids or anything like that. (Laughter) Yeah, you talk to the younger guys out here and stuff, but it's sort of irrelevant.   
  
  Q. Do you have to watch your hydration in the heat? Do you have a problem with the heat?   
 RORY McILROY: No, not really. I suppose because it was so hot today, you were sweating, I was losing fluid through my skin rather than actually going to the toilet.   
  
  Q. Last year even though you had a great year, you were disappointed to only come out with one win, how important is it that you get win No. 2 sooner rather than later?   
 RORY McILROY: Very important. It seems like a long time since Dubai. A lot's happened. I'd like to get that win very quickly. I feel that I'm playing well enough to do that. You know, we'll see what happens tomorrow. I'm going out there with high expectations and hopefully I can live up to those. If it doesn't happen tomorrow, I'm sure if it keeps going like this, it will happen sooner rather than later.   
  
  Q. You said earlier that everybody has come out of the box very quick this year, is that something to do with this course and Abu Dhabi in particular, is it a good way to get going?   
 RORY McILROY: I think it is. A lot of the guys, they come out to either Abu Dhabi or Dubai and they practise for a week before this tournament just after the new year. So it's a great way to come out and sort of shake the cobwebs off and get the rust out of your game and get ready for the new season.   
 So I think that all of the guys take advantage of the great weather, and you know, they have a week of preparation before going into The Desert Swing, so it definitely helps.   
  
  Q. Can you give us a little idea of the things you would discuss with Woody or Martin Kaymer?  
 RORY McILROY: Music, movies, cars, stuff that's relevant. Playing with a 40-year-old, you say I'm listening to a song and they are like, what are you talking about.   
 I've played amateur golf with Chris and like Ross McGowan and a few other of the guys, Oli Fisher, we have played -- I played with Oli since we were 12, and we know each other and it's always great to be able to play with them.   
  
  Q. Who would you put Ian Poulter in with you guys, you guys or the 40-year-olds?   
 RORY McILROY: He's in the middle, isn't he. Well, what is he, 33, is he? He's not really -- he still likes to keep himself in with the young guys I suppose. I mean, he's still young -- I don't know. He's not old, anyway.   
 Fashion-wise, he's doing all right, yeah. He's got his own style which is nice, he's his own individual, he does what he thinks and what he likes and some people don't like it but most people do.   
  
  Q. Possible bit of mischief-making here, you mentioned cars being in the top of your conversation, has it been on your mind to discuss go carts tomorrow with Martin?  
 RORY McILROY: You know, after he came back from injury, I said -- he's actually a member of a go-carting club or whatever, so he's big into it. It's just one of those freak accidents that happens, one of those things. He seems to be doing all right with those plates. I don't think it's hindered him too much.  
  
  Q. So you're not going to take the Mickey out or anything like that?   
 RORY McILROY: No. I don't know him that well to do that, I suppose.   
 SCOTT CROCKETT: Well done for everything you managed to produce today.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT