DUBAI WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY DP WORLD
November 21, 2009
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Beautiful play for 15 holes, 6-under par, what happened? 
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, I played great. I got myself into the position in the tournament where I really wanted to be. I got away with a tee shot a bit on 16 and just caught a flyer out of the rough, had 150 yards to the pin and hit a wedge and pitched like 160. So I couldn't really do anything about that. I nearly got it up-and-down. 
 On 17, I left myself a really tough 2-putt. You know, I thought playing, I thought a three there would have been a good score, and playing left of the pin left a very difficult putt and didn't get the one coming back. 
 On 18, it was just a bad shot. I was trying to play it right of the pin and draw it in, and I just turned it too much. You know, but I'm four behind at the minute. Depends what Lee does at the last. You know, I've still got a chance. I'm still right in the tournament.

 Q. What are you going to do tomorrow, go out and play really aggressively?
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, my last few scores on finals rounds have been very good. So if I can go out and shoot something like I did in Shanghai or something like I did in Hong Kong, I'll have a good chance to win. 

 Q. 16, 17,18, unlucky, how do you feel about that?
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, I played good, so that's the way I have to look at it. I have to look at it as if I played really well. It was unfortunate to bogey the last three holes. But you know, if I can go out tomorrow and birdie the first three holes tomorrow, then all of the damage, it's forgotten about and I can just move on. 
 I'm still in a good position going into the last round. I just need to shoot a couple better on the final. 

 Q. What happened on those last three holes? Was that bad club selection or the wind or what happened? 
 RORY McILROY: I got a flyer on 16 out of the rough. So you know, I couldn't really do anything about that. It was a bit of bad fortune. 
 17, I hit a pretty good tee shot. I was trying to play left of the pin and just hit it a bit too far left and left myself a difficult 2-putt. So wasn't able to make my par there. 
 Then on 18, I hit two great shots to put myself in great position to make birdie and just hit a very poor third shot.
 I played very well the whole day, just a bit disappointed about the last three holes. But I've still got a shot to win this tournament.

 Q. Anything can happen on the final day. What are you going to do now? Will you go to the range or go to the hotel and just forget about it?
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, there's no reason to go to the range. I played really well for 15 holes. I'm just going to go back and chill out and just do what I normally do and get ready for tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT