THE VIVENDI TROPHY WITH SEVERIANO BALLESTEROS
September 27, 2009
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   RORY McILROY: I think we were both 5- or 6-under par between us, apart from the mistake Henrik made on 17. It was a great match and a match that I wanted all week, and it was nice to come out on top. 

 Q. Did you feel pressure at the end of the match? 
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, I did. I mean, I'd be lying if I said my hands weren't a little shaky over the putt on the last. It's great for the team, as well, because we haven't really got off to the best of starts today and it's good to put a point on the board early. 

 Q. You played extremely well all the week. You really impressed the French public. What about you, the French public, do you like it? 
 RORY McILROY: It's great. I missed the French Open this year. I didn't play because of my schedule, but I would like to come back one day. Saint-Nom-la-Bretèche is a fantastic golf course, and with Vivendi the sponsors now, we hope The European Tour have a long relationship with them. 
 You know, I'd love to come back to France and play as well as I have this week. 

 Q. Will you come to play next year at the French Open?
 RORY McILROY: I hope so. 

 Q. 4-1 for the week, how do you rank that?
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, I mean, if I played No. 1 in the second, I would have been five out of five. 
 No, it was fantastic, the whole week. Not just myself but we all got into the team atmosphere. It was fantastic. All of the boys got on really well and I think it showed in our play on the golf course. 
 You know, in terms of where it ranks, this is my first professional team event, and I've come in and I've played very, very well. I'm disappointed not to come out with a hundred percent record, but it's been a very good week. You know, to beat Henrik here in the singles, he's played a couple of Ryder Cups now, you know, he's in the top 5 in the world, it's a nice feeling. 

 Q. When you went in the trees on 17, that change your thinking about how to play that hole?
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, I've been struggling with that tee shot the whole week, so I just made sure when I hit driver, I hit it as hard as I could so I get past all the trouble on the right. I was lucky enough to get past all that, and you know, he was trying to play quite a good shot through the trees and was unlucky to hit a branch. 

 Q. No chance of a 3-wood off the tee? 
 RORY McILROY: Not really, because even -- I just didn't like the shape of the hole that much all week. Even with 3-wood, if you leak it a bit right, you're going to get blocked out. With driver, you can just hit it as hard as you can and you can get past those trees on the right and it wasn't too bad. 
 Everything on the team, every team meeting was at half seven this week and I actually looked forward to being in the team meetings. I mean, I was supposed to be in there for half seven. I was usually turning up at a quarter past because I got such a buzz, with all ten lads, you know, putting in ideas. Paul has a lot of great ideas, especially with the team format of foursomes and fourballs. You know, he's been really good, and he just said to me today on the range, he's played in Ryder Cups and he's never got beaten in his singles record. He said, "This is the start of your singles record and just go out and start it the way I have." 
 He's been fantastic all week, and I think all of the lads will say that. We couldn't have done half of what we have this week if it wasn't for him.

 Q. Has 2010 taken on a slightly enhanced complexion for you this week?
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, at least since last night, I mean, I've sort of forgot how good the team environment and the team atmosphere was in golf. It's great to be with such a great bunch of lads. I'll be very disappointed if I didn't make it next year. 
 But you know, hopefully if I keep up with the way I'm playing, I should be there and I can't wait for it. 

 Q. And one final thought, now you're heading into a really big phase of the year now, you're well-placed in The Race to Dubai and an awful lot to play for. 
 RORY McILROY: An awful lot to play for. This has been a great week for my confidence. I'm still at the top of my game and I'm still playing well and able to take on the No. 5 player in the world, you know, so I've got a lot to play for and obviously The Race to Dubai, it's huge for me the next couple of months, so hopefully I can put in a couple of really good performances and try and win that as well. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT