VOLVO WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
October 30, 2009
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. A bit like Henrik Stenson, you had to win your match this morning, how does it feel to do just that?  
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, it feels great, especially going up 151-down to, win three out of the last four holes was huge and I've been giving myself so many chances, yesterday and today, and I was just par after par after par, and I was delighted to see one go in on 17.  
  
  Q. What are your tactics later on when you're in that situation?  
 RORY McILROY: Just to keep giving yourself chances, keep giving yourself putts for birdie, and if you do that, you're going to putt the other guy under pressure and that's what I was able to do.   
 Especially playing Simon, he's such a good friend, it was so tough to really get anything going today, and you know, I had a lot of chances, hit a lot of good putts that didn't go in. So if a couple more of them dropped, instead of two, it would have been 4-up and it would have looked like a very comfortable match. But I need to hole a few putts this afternoon to try to get myself through.  
  
  Q. You used to go and watch this championship at Wentworth as a kid and get signed balls from players; how special is to be a part of it now?  
 RORY McILROY: It's fantastic. I mean, not to take anything away from Finca Cortesin, it would have been lovely to play it at Wentworth.   
 But it's fantastic to be part of this tournament, and you know, I'm really enjoying it and hopefully I can go out and play well again this afternoon and see if I can give myself a chance to get into the semifinal.   
  
  Q. Stenson you beat him at the Vivendi Trophy, he's looking for revenge, your thoughts on that one?  
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, I can't wait. Henrik is obviously a very, very, very good player. If I can hit it the same as I did this morning and maybe just hole a couple more putts, that could be the difference. I'm 1-up on him mentally, anyway, going on to the first tee, so hopefully I can keep it that way.   
  
  Q. You turned that totally around in the last few holes.   
 RORY McILROY: I needed to. 15 is obviously the toughest par 4 on the course, and I made 4 there. And Simon, he missed the green right and didn't get up-and-down so, that was back to all-square. You know, I made a very timely put on 17 to go 1-up in the match. It was the first time I went up.   
 I played the 18th great, as well. I hit a great drive up there and hit a 3-iron right into the -- just short of the green but righted in middle of the green and two putts. It was nice to finish the match off like that and it gives me a little bit of momentum going into this afternoon.   
  
  Q. A sizable putt on 17, as well as a particularly special one.   
 RORY McILROY: Exactly, because I had not held anything all day and it was nice to see one drop eventually. That gave me a bit of the boost to go up the last and as I said I played it great and just happy to win.   
  
  Q. A deficit with the holes lost in the first day, a lot to do?  
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, the ideal scenario is if I go out and beat Henrik, and Angel and Simon halve, that's perfect for me.   
 I just have to go out and concentrate on that match, and if I can go out and beat Henrik, and I still don't get through, so be it. That's the way the format is. I just didn't do enough yesterday to put myself right in the frame. But you never know what can happen. It's match play and hopefully I can give myself a chance to go through.   
  
  Q. We couldn't know what would happen in match play in the Vivendi Trophy a few weeks ago, but that was some match against Henrik wasn't it.   
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, it was great. I think we were both 5- or 6-under par. I just pipped him at the last. It would be great to play another match and I think I will need to play like that again today to beat him. Hopefully I can go out there and play like that, and as I said, hopefully that's good enough to get me through.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT