THE VIVENDI TROPHY WITH SEVERIANO BALLESTEROS
September 26, 2009
Graeme McDowell
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Another good performance from you and Rory. 
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, we played well nicely today. We combined well as a team. Gelled well, good energy among us, and we did everything well today. 
 Rory played unbelievable. I put him in a few awkward positions and he answered the question. I got the putter heated up a little this afternoon and made some nice ones, and it was a great day's work. Really happy with it.

 Q. I think you're about 5-, or 6-under par there, that's some going in an afternoon match after what you've been through the last two days. 
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, definitely for foursomes, as well. Foursomes is probably the most difficult format in golf. We both played very well today. And you know, it's great to have a partner like Graeme who is experienced but also, you know, he gets up for these type of things, and you know, as he said, we really fed off each other. 
 And you know, we played great golf. I held a lot of good putts this morning and hit a lot of good shots this afternoon, and, you know, Graeme was able to convert them. 
 So as I said, it was a great day's work and we couldn't be happier. 

 Q. Paul has talked about you two leading from the front, something you seem to have revelled in this week. 
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, the only match we lost was when we played a little bit down the order. You know, we enjoyed the energy, the intensity of playing up front, leading the team off. I think we are both energetic style of players, we like to feel a bit of buzz in our game and put a spring in our step, and we certainly had that leading the team off. 
 It was just great to put a couple more points on the board. It's been a great day for GB&I, obviously hoping to win this last game. It's been a great day all around. 

 Q. A great day for and you for the team, as well. 
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, fantastic as a team, and I think that's because we have got a great captain. Paul McGinley this week has been fantastic, has left nothing to -- everything's been out in the Open with the team. You know, he's never left us in the dark. He's just been great. The team meetings every night have been fantastic. He's got a lot of very good ideas about team golf, and you know, he's put some of that into practise this week, and he's been great. 
 So I think a lot of the credit has to go to him. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT