PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2009
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q. Thoughts on the day?
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, I got myself to 3-under par after 15 holes, and I hit it into the hazard in the left again on 16 and made bogey which was fine. But then I made a really bad swing on the tee shot at 17 and I probably got what I deserved. It didn't quite go into the hazard, and I was able to play out and chip up to about 12 feet. Just ran my first putt past about three feet and missed the one coming back. It was quite a bad tee shot so five was probably what I deserved after it.
 I hit a great chip on last that didn't go in, so felt quite hard done by. But that's golf, and I'll learn from it and hopefully go out tomorrow and get off to a good start.

 Q. On the bright side, you started with two bogeys, so two dropped shots at the first two, three dropped on the last three, the middle, you're 4-under and there was a lot of great golf there. 
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, there was. I got in a nice rhythm again, and I made three on the spin, 6, 7, 8, to get myself to under par for the round. 
 I 3-putted 11, as well, for a dropped shot which wasn't goodM but then made a couple of birdies on 14 and 15. So there's a lot of good in there with just a little bit of bad. 
 So if I can iron it all out and come out tomorrow and make a few birdies, hopefully I can get myself back where I was in the middle of the round today. 

 Q. It's the halfway point of a tough-scoring major and you're level par, and that's pretty good position. 
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, it is. You know, going out today, looking at the weather conditions, I thought even par score would have been a really good score; and I've shot 1-over, I should have shot a little bit better. But yeah, I mean, it was still pretty good, and obviously I'm disappointed coming off because I feel as if I should have done a lot better. 
 You know, at least I'm definitely a lot happier about my game today than I was on Monday and Tuesday, so there's a few positives to take from it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT