THE EUROPEAN OPEN
May 28, 2009
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Rory, great par save at the 18th, does 69 feel like a fairy tale for your day's efforts?
 RORY McILROY: I think so. I didn't play particularly well but 69 is probably a fair reflection. Missed a couple of chances on the front nine, but then got away with a couple of shots on the back nine. 
 So it all evens itself out, and 69 was okay.

 Q. The lie off the 18th fairway looked vicious. 
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, I was actually trying to go further up the fairway and I was lucky to sort of squeeze out to the left and didn't go as far as I thought it would, and then it was nice to hole that putt on the last. It will make dinner taste a little bit better tonight.
 I feel as if it was good, drove it well, hit a lot of good iron shots, but you know what it's like when you're really on and I hit a lot of good shots, but it could have been better. 

 Q. Top-10 here last year; is this a course that suits your eye?
 RORY McILROY: I think it is. It's a big golf course and I seem to do well around quite long golf courses. 
 Yeah, you know, I feel as if I can hit a lot of fairways off the tee, the drives suit my eye, and it's just a question of putting it on the green from there and just holing a few putts.

 Q. A rough day today for Shane, 6-over par, any words of wisdom in you've been through the experience of a lot of expectation placed on you. 
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, if you don't hit fairways out here, it is a tough golf course. The rough is pretty brutal in some spots, but if you go out tomorrow and shoot 66, you make the cut, and he's very capable of it. So I'm sure that's what he'll be thinking tonight.

 Q. Was Sunday a disappointment for you? 
 RORY McILROY: Not really. I birdied the last two holes to finish in the top 5, so I ended it on a good note. And you know, even if I played really well, still wouldn't have won. 
 Yeah, I thought a Top-5 was a good result, but obviously I wanted to do better, but I'll take what I got.

 Q. What are your emotions after that opening round, a good save at the end? 
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, a great save at the end. I didn't want to finish with two bogeys in a row, so that putt on the last meant a lot, and will give me a bit of momentum going into tomorrow. I'm out early tomorrow and hopefully boost the number.

 Q. It was important to get that momentum and keep it going, because it was a big stride to take in last week, wasn't it. 
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, I felt as if I played really well at the weekend last week, and it felt really good out there again today. Drove it well and hit a lot of good iron shots. It's all come together quite nicely.

 Q. I know you've just been asked about him, but you remember day one of your professional career almost as freshly as anybody out here. What is it like when you do make that change? 
 RORY McILROY: It's a little different, Shane and myself. Shane has already won on The European Tour. And I think there's even more expectations on him from the outside looking in. I didn't feel the expectation whenever I was playing. I just got on with it. But it seems as if there's a lot of expectation on him. 

 Q. You know him well; as a character, how will he sort of take this 78 and bouncing back from it, on obviously what is a big weekend for him. 
 RORY McILROY: He won't care. He's got a two-year exemption. A 70 is a 70, and as I said, if he can come out tomorrow and shoot 66, he'll make the cut. And he's very capable of doing it. But he just needs to stay positive. It's only one round of golf, and one round of golf doesn't determine a career. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT