WGC CA CHAMPIONSHIP
March 12, 2009
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. 68 is a good score but do you feel like you left a couple out there?
 RORY McILROY: Yes, I think I could have gone lower to be honest. I got off to a great start and played the front nine really well and was three under to the turn and then birdied the tenth and the 12th to go to five and so I felt I was on a nice little run there but then the bogeys on the 13th and the 14th sort of halted my momentum a little bit. But I picked a nice one up on the 15th and could have got another on the 16th but misread it. But overall it is pretty tricky out there with the wind but obviously the scoring is very very good and I'll need to shoot something a little bit lower tomorrow to get myself back in there for the weekend.

 Q. What was your attitude going out as, with the rough not being that much up, it looked like it could be a low scoring week?
 RORY McILROY: I was quite surprised looking back at the previous tournament scores, I think Geoff was 17 under last year and apparently it was really windy and the rough was up so it is going to be a low scoring week this week no doubt about it. I played really well out there today and I feel if I can shoot maybe one or two lower tomorrow then I'll have a good chance.

 Q. When you won the World Under 10 Championship here, which tees did you play off?
 RORY McILROY: I was actually saying to JP, my caddie, I played off the back tees with my dad on the Blue Monster here when I was about 12 and it took me three woods to get up to the 12th and today I reached the green with a driver and a three wood! I didn't play this golf course back then when I won that championship but it was great to come back here, I have great memories of the place and it is great to have mum and dad here as well with me this week.

 Q. Tell us about the support you are getting as there really seems to be some Rory-mania out there?
 RORY McILROY: It is really great. It is nice to see a lot of people out there supporting me and I know a lot of them are young kids and it is nice to see them out there getting interested in the game and if I can spark an interest in younger people to play golf, then that is great.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT