WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 26, 2009
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   RORY McILROY: I saved my best for last.

 Q. What turned it around for you starting on 13?
 RORY McILROY: I bombed one on 13 and had 8-iron in and I made a 4, and then I made a mistake on 14 to get a bogey. I birdied 15, had a good up-and-down on 16 and then two birdies at the last. I really dug deep, and I'm very happy.

 Q. These greens aren't easy to read with all the undulations. The two last putts that you had were great reads. Are you getting comfortable on the greens?
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, definitely learning each day. I sort of struggled early on today with the greens a little bit. 

 Q. You just beat Hunter Mahan, one of the best players in the world. You've got to be thinking you've got a chance. You're going to be the man to beat now going into the weekend. 
 RORY McILROY: I don't know about that, but yeah, we'll just see how it goes. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 RORY McILROY: I started on the 13th two down, and Hunter hit a great shot into 12 and I had two great shots into 13 and made birdie, which got me back to 1, then he made a mistake on 14 to go back to all square. I dug deep and played my best golf when I needed to, which is very satisfying.

 Q. You didn't play particularly well at the start of the round, so what was the key to turning it around? 
 RORY McILROY: I don't know, I think I got my head on and dug deep and hit good shots when I needed to. It was a great way to finish the match. Obviously it gives me a little bit of momentum going into tomorrow.

 Q. How disappointed are you that Tiger didn't win?
 RORY McILROY: I'm not (laughing). Obviously Tim played great today to beat Tiger. It was either going to be Tim or Tiger, and I've got Tim, so I just have to go out and play the match. It's probably going to be a tough one because you have to play well to beat Tiger, and obviously Tim did that today. 

 Q. This was a lot for a teenager to take, but you seemed like you were up to the task, especially considering your record. 
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, it was a tough match out there today, and Hunter is a great player. He was missing greens and getting up-and-down, and he just didn't go away. Then he got 2-up on me and I had to really dig deep and I played my best golf when I needed to, and that was very satisfying.

 Q. When you say "dig deep," what do you do?
 RORY McILROY: I don't know, you just have to really concentrate and play every shot as if it was your last, and I did that pretty well today.

 Q. I know you said coming into the week meeting Tiger Woods would be a dream come true. You came very close to meeting him tomorrow in the third round, but it's going to be Tim Clark, and with all due respect to Tim, he'll be a tough match. Your thoughts on not getting Tiger?
 RORY McILROY: It's probably a good thing. I'll be the first to say if I stood on the first tee with Tiger I would be intimidated because he has been a hero of mine for the past I don't know how many years. You know, it was tough for him not to win today, but obviously Tim had to play great to beat the world No. 1.

 Q. Did you ever get your chance to meet Tiger?
 RORY McILROY: I've met him, but when I said "meet him," I meant meet him in the third round. I've met him a few times before. It would have been great to play him, but maybe another time. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT