WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 25, 2009
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   RODDY WILLIAMS: Rory, a nice start to your professional career here in America. It was a good win for you on this first day.   
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, actually I found it quite difficult because he's a good friend of mine and it's always hard to play someone you know quite lot about.   
 But, yeah, we both didn't play as well as we could, but I was able to just make my pars when I needed to and got the job done.   
 RODDY WILLIAMS: And then through to the second round now.   
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, through to the second round, which is always nice. It it's nice to just get through one and then I probably got a little bit of work to do on the greens this afternoon and hopefully I'll get better tomorrow and try to get through that as well.   
  
  Q. What was wrong with your game in particular and what do you have to work on?  
 RORY McILROY: I drove the ball great. I think that I missed one fairway. But I think that it's hard to control your distances out here because the ball's going so far. So I need to work a little bit on distance control. And maybe hitting a few half shots on the range and stuff like that, because the wind got up as well. The wind got up on the back nine, so I need to hit a few better half shots and that.   
  
  Q. Was your ball striking the key then to the win today?  
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, but you got to accept that if you hit a really good shot here it might end up 50 feet away. There's so much slope on the greens. So you got to be very patient and bide your time, and if you're hitting good shots and not getting crazy, you just got to keep plodding away and keep dealing with it.   
  
  Q. You mentioned it was good to get day one out of the way; does that help -- maybe I'm not the first person to ask you about your youth this week, but being younger, does it help to maybe get the first day done? Does your age have anything to do with that?  
 RORY McILROY: No, I don't feel any younger than any of the rest of the guys out here.   
 (Laughter.)  
 I mean, I don't think that's it. It's just nice to be able to play only one match, you know. I feel as if I can get on and get rolling, with the way I play I would be able to go quite far in this tournament.   
  
  Q. Another round out you might run into Tiger, right?  
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, well I think so, yeah. That's a long way off for the minute. But we'll see what happens.   
  
  Q. How difficult is it to put that out of your mind, that possibility of maybe playing Tiger? Is it something that you're losing sleep over?  
 RORY McILROY: Not at all.  
  
  Q. Or thinking about?  
 RORY McILROY: No. It looks like I'll probably play -- well it's either going to be Hunter or Mike tomorrow; I don't know how that match is going to go. And all I can do is concentrate on that. And then -- but I said it, I was asked it earlier, but Tiger has to get through his second round match as well. And obviously he seems to be playing pretty well. So we'll see what happens.   
  
  Q. Well done. In an event like this how significant is your background in amateur golf when you would have played so much match play?  
 RORY McILROY: I think it is quite an advantage. I grew up with match play and on the coast of the west of Ireland and all that. And I think that it does help, especially in 18-hole single matches as well, so it's a bit of a sprint and you need to try to get off to a fast start and definitely I'm playing with three or four years of that, I think that it will definitely help me this week.   
  
  Q. Your shot of the day today? Was there something that stood out?  
 RORY McILROY: I had a drive and an 8-iron into the 13th par-5. So that was two good shots. That was about it.   
  
  Q. How do you gauge the distance control? Do you have like a percentage that you factor in in your mind as far as how much farther it's going to go because of the altitude?  
 RORY McILROY: Not really. J.P., my caddie, he's writing down all my numbers in the practice rounds and we sort of just work off that. We could say yesterday that I hit a 7-iron 185, a little bit into the breeze or whatever, and we'll try and work off that.   
 I think if you try and play a percentage it hasn't really helped me in the past, so just try and play from the shots that I've hit and try and work off that.   
 RODDY WILLIAMS: Rory, very well played, congratulations. Good luck tomorrow.   
 RORY McILROY: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT