DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 1, 2009
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Very casual, five birdies in a row, and when the lead has gone from six to two, tell us how you gather yourself. That was incredible golf.   
 RORY McILROY: I just knew if I stuck to my game plan and played the shots that I knew I was capable of, I would be able to make a few birdies. And the back nine has been good to had he this week. I've basically made my score on that back nine. So I knew there was a few birdies to be had and fortunately I was able to take them.  
  
  Q. Five ahead with four to go, and then you start to wobble, tell us about your emotions, what it like coming down the stretch.   
 RORY McILROY: Actually I was feeling quite good after I made a good 2-putt on 14, and then I hit the wrong club on 15 and I was trying to -- I was pumped up and trying to hit a hard seven and just caught it a little heavy. Then I made a bad swing on 16.   
 But you just have to gather yourself. This is my first win, and it's hard to win, the first time is. And it's definitely a monkey off my back, having lost in a playoff. It's been an absolutely fantastic week.  
  
  Q. One-shot lead coming down the last and Justin knocking it in close enough to make a birdie and you're in the back bunker, tell us what's going through your mind; there's water behind the pin.   
 RORY McILROY: I laid up perfectly, and it was just a little bit of adrenaline, my hands got into it and I flipped it. I was trying to pitch it 75 yards, and I pitched it about 85 and Justin hit it in close from the rough there. And yeah, I mean, I saw Louis hit a very good bunker shot, which sort of showed me that it could be done. And I played a brilliant little shot out and it rolled down to three feet. It was nice to knock it in for the win.   
  
  Q. You are easily the youngest player in the world Top-50. We reckon you are up to 15th now; can you believe that, in just 16 months as a pro?  
 RORY McILROY: No, not at all. Even the field that I've been able to beat this week, Sergio, Henrik, Justin, Paul Casey, Martin Kaymer, the list goes on. Just to be able to compete with these guys and to be able to come out on top is just one of the best feelings in the world.   
  
  Q. Special to have your parents here; you sacrificed so much to putt you in a position to do this.   
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, they have been absolutely fantastic. This win is definitely for them. They have done so much for me, and it's nice to be able to repay them in some way.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT