BARCLAYS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 12, 2008
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. An eventful back nine?
   RORY McILROY: Yeah, I played very well today. There was a lot of good holes and I just sort of had a bad one on the back nine, bogeyed 12 and 13 and 15 but there was a few birdies in between that. So overall it was a pretty good day.

   Q. How difficult is it to keep getting yourself after bogeying and birdieing straightaway?
   RORY McILROY: I actually find that quite easy to do, after I make a bogey, I say, all right, I have to make a birdie.
   I probably need to keep myself in that kind set for most of the round because I seem to do better when I'm under pressure to make birdies. That's what I've done the last couple of days.

   Q. Talking about being under pressure, we all know at the moment you're not in the Open field for next week but you're right up there now at 6-under par; how difficult is it to keep one eye on the tournament and one eye on next week?
   RORY McILROY: I'm not even thinking about next week to be honest. I just want to go out and try and play well this week and fits enough, it's enough and if not, I've always got the next 30 years to play in the Open.
   I'm not too worried about it. If I can go out tomorrow and shoot something in the low to mid 60s I'll have a chance, but take it as a comes.

   Q. Time being at the moment you're only three shots back. 
   RORY McILROY: Yes, exactly. Probably by today, I'll be five or six back, so go out tomorrow and get off to a good start and you never know. I got off to a good start today and I've been struggling, I've been struggling to get my rounds off to a bit of a good start, and I did that today. So hopefully I can do the same tomorrow.

   Q. And if you get in the right position, you'd love to be back at Birkdale next week?
   RORY McILROY: Yeah, I have a lot of great memories from last year so it would be great to get to Birkdale this year. 
 End of FastScripts



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT