IRISH OPEN
May 17, 2008
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Are you enjoying yourself out there?
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, I've probably played a little better than what the score reflected today. But overall, I'm still in there with a chance, so I'm pretty pleased.

 Q. A second 70 leaves you on 4-under par, right in there?
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, definitely, as I said, I thought I played better than what the score reflected today. 
 But you know, I'm only four shot off the lead and hopefully I'll be four shots off the lead going into the final day tomorrow. So just have to get off to a good, positive start tomorrow and see what happens.

 Q. What in particular disappointed you in that round? 
 RORY McILROY: I just didn't hole enough putts again. I putted quite well, but just from maybe 12, 15 feet; I gave myself a lot of opportunities and didn't really take many.
 Apart from that, the ball-striking is pretty good, a couple of shots here and there but that's always expected. A bit of practise on the putting green tonight and hopefully I can go out and hole those putts tomorrow.

 Q. And another lovely shot into the 18th, very unlucky for the eagle?
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, it was a pretty tricky putt. It was a big swing from right-to-left and I tried to make sure I didn't blow it too far by and I did that. It's a hole that sort of suits my eye. Very comfortable driving hole for me, and the rest is pretty easy from there if you hit it on the fairway.


 Q. One day to go; a lot of pressure?
 RORY McILROY: Not really. I just have to go out there and play my own golf and not get ahead of myself and try to get off to a good positive start. And if I can do that, I'll have a chance going into the back nine tomorrow.

 Q. A lot of support for you. 
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, it was a great atmosphere and hopefully the crowds will turn out tomorrow as well and it will make for a great finish. 
 I had a lot of good shots out there. I did make a couple of good up-and-downs to get myself in there, but pretty disappointed with the bogey on 17. To make a shot at the last is pretty nice. I just have to go and work on my putting this evening and hopefully that will improve and hopefully shoot a better score tomorrow. 
 I'm giving myself a lot of chances. It's just a matter of taking them. I'm not putting badly or anything. I'm just not taking as many as I should. Hopefully I will hole my fair share tomorrow and give it a good run.

 Q. You look like a man who is enjoying the experience of 4-under heading into the final day, and you're still in touch there nicely. 
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, definitely, I'm only four shots off the lead and four shots on this golf course isn't really that much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT