IRISH OPEN
May 15, 2008
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. A good round?
 RORY McILROY: It's a solid round. I didn't do much wrong today. I hit it really nicely. Gave myself a lot of opportunities which is great around this golf course. You've got to hit it well around here to give yourself opportunities, and that's what I did today. Overall it's a solid start. Hopefully I can build on it for the next three days.

 Q. You spoke about preparing well for this tournament. You really have prepared well and it looks like you're coming in with your best form. 
 RORY McILROY: Definitely. A long couple of weeks over in the Far East and I got home and sort of recharged the batteries a little bit and did a lot of good practise, and it has paid off going into this week, I feel comfortable with my ball striking, and I've sharpened up my short game which is good, and overall I feel like I'm playing quite nicely. As I said, if I can play like that for the next three days, I won't be far off. 

 Q. First few months of the season playing in the Far East; you've really just prepared for this part of the season and you're coming in perfectly. 
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, definitely. I feel a lot more comfortable in Europe than I do in the Far East, and it shows. I played Spain and Portugal in April and I played pretty well there. So I mean, I do feel more comfortable in Europe and at home, and I think that shows with the reflection of my scores. 
 Yeah, I mean, I've prepared well and I'm playing well, so, you know, we'll see what happens in the next few days.

 Q. And all about this week is dealing with the rough around the greens, when you miss -- on the 17th hole, your 17th hole, just one of those lies. 
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, it wasn't even in the longer stuff. I was in the second cut, and it was one of those lies with a chip shot, if you get a lot of grass stuck between the ball and the clubface, it was going nowhere or you could shoot it over the green. I decided to putt it. It was sitting in a little indentation and it just hopped out. It was a bad second putt.
 Overall it was a great round, and I'm hitting it well. My short game is pretty good, so I'm just going to go this afternoon to sort of groove it in a little bit and get ready for tomorrow. 

 Q. What about tee shot at 4? 
 RORY McILROY: Tee shot at 4, the par 3, it was 176 to the flag, sort of into off the left. I hit a little hold up 6-iron. I don't know how it dent go in because it was right behind the flag when it finished but that was a great shot.

 Q. Highlight of the round?
 RORY McILROY: I would say so. 
 5-iron into 18. It was 215 and sort of pitched it on the ledge on the left and it was probably pretty unlucky that it didn't stay up there, but 2-putt, birdie and a nice way to go into the front nine. 

 Q. You looked even longer off the tee than you have been in the last few months. You were well outside your playing partners all day. Is that just a phenomena or does that seem to be the case or it is the case?
 RORY McILROY: I've been hitting it pretty long this year. I'm just hitting it pretty well and I'm quite confident so I can step up on tee boxes and hit it a little harder if I want to. That's definitely a big advantage out here if you can hit it quite long.

 Q. How long was the drive that you hit the tree?
 RORY McILROY: I think it's 340 to the tree. As I said, I'm hitting it well. 

 Q. Satisfied with the score?
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, probably could have been a couple better, but 70 around this golf course isn't going to do you any harm, even in these conditions. 

 Q. If it stays like this, what do you reckon will be the winning score?
 RORY McILROY: I'd say 10- or 12-under, something like that. 

 Q. I didn't get up in time to see your two early birdies. 
 RORY McILROY: Birdie on 12. I had driver, sort of miss-hit my 3-wood and came up short. I think it was 50 yard to the pin and chipped a lob wedge to four feet.
 Next hole I hit a 2-iron off the tee, 7-iron and really one of those, probably one of the best shot of the day, as well. Went to six feet and held that. 

 Q. What distance was the 7-iron? 
 RORY McILROY: 185. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT