UBS HONG KONG OPEN
November 22, 2008
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. How good was today?  
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, it was good. I did very well today. I was very patient out there. I took my chances when they came on the back nine. 66 keeps me in and pretty pleased.  
  
  Q. How patient are you, usually, because that can get pretty frustrating?   
 RORY McILROY: Not usually that patient to be honest but I knew I had chances coming in. Like yesterday, I didn't take my chances with wedges in my hand coming down the last few, and today I did. I knew that there was going to be chances, and it was just a matter of getting through.   
 I knew 13 was an easy birdie chance on the par 5 when he hit the mid-iron in, and then from there, I thought if I could just make up a couple, it would be great, and to hole that putt on the last was a nice way to finish and sets me up well for tomorrow.   
  
  Q. You're in a fine position; attack or just keep it going?  
 RORY McILROY: Just keep it going and see what happens and give myself a chance going into the back nine tomorrow, and that's all I'm trying to do.  
 If I can play the front nine the way I did today, or maybe a couple of shots better, I'll be right in there and see what happens.  
  
  Q. I take it when you tee it up, you are pretty confident; now with the way the results are going?   
 RORY McILROY: The last couple of months have been really good. Ever since Switzerland, I've played really well and it's given me a little boost of confidence and shown me what I can do.   
 I've just got a lot of belief in myself, and I feel as if I'm ready to win. And if it's not this week, it might be next week or the week after. But as long as I keep putting myself in these positions, I'll be okay.  
  
Q. And after Switzerland is it a case of taking nothing but positives?   
 RORY McILROY: Oh, yeah, definitely. I led the tournament until the 72nd really, and the playoff; I played really well there. Yeah, take all of the positives from it, everything I did well, and then try and learn from the mistakes. There was not many mistakes.   
 It was a great thing for me and made me even hungrier to win out here. As I said, I'm ready to, and if not tomorrow, maybe in the not-too-distant future.  
  
  Q. What are your thoughts on seeing Bernhard Langer's name up there at the top?  
 RORY McILROY: Unbelievable. I've seen him and he got to ten, and then 11. He's 51 years of age and still out here competing. This golf course is perfect for him. He just positions his ball, left side fairway, right side green, and he just plots himself around here, and if he makes a couple of putts, he's going to be well in there.   
 But it's good to see him up there, as well, obviously.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT