THE EUROPEAN OPEN
July 3, 2008
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Lovely round of golf?  
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, it's better, definitely better and I think it helped to have my coach with me the first two days here, Michael Dunne, did a good bit of work with him. Chatted after the qualifying at Sunningdale on Monday and did a bit of work on Tuesday.   
 Put a new driver in the bag this week, as well which has been -- I'm getting 15, 20 yards more with it and it's going straighter. That's probably the key to why I played so well today. I drove it very good.   
  
  Q. When you look at the last few months since the Irish Open, a bit of a lull since then; why, and have you analysed it?  
 RORY McILROY: I've just lost confidence to be honest which is probably the first time in my life I've not been confident because I'm usually a very confident sort of person. Yeah, I just lost a little bit of confidence and I just wasn't trusting what I was doing.   
 Had a good chat with Michael this week, and seeing Paul Hurrion on Tuesday for a couple hours, as well. A bit disappointed on the last. I played pretty nicely today. I was a bit more aggressive. I think when I lost a bit of confidence, I was playing a bit too negatively and was hitting more drivers off tees and was hitting it to targets rather than trying to hit it here and there and it became quite simple again.   
  
  Q. Can one round kind of change the way you think about the game and the way you feel about yourself in terms of confidence?   
 RORY McILROY: Definitely I've taken a lot from today. Drove it really well. Iron play was very good, and I gave myself a lot of chances and actually made a few, so if I can keep doing that, I won't be far away.   
  
  Q. Do you almost expect that there were going to be periods that it was going to be really tough?  
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, just have to deal with them and hopefully if I come across these periods again I'll deal with them better. I've been saying the last couple weeks it's close and the round today proved it's getting there.   
  
  Q. Why the new driver?   
 RORY McILROY: Just different shots, a bit lighter.  
  
  Q. What have you been doing with Paul?  
 RORY McILROY: Just purely on putting. I've seen him now since maybe a month or so, but had a good session with him on Tuesday and basically just it was more posture and alignment and balance and stuff and just a bit off. Worked on a couple of things on the setup and starting to work but still a long way to go. I definitely want to be one of the best putters in the world.   
 When you're playing well, you always have a bit of confidence, so it makes it a bit easier.   
  
  Q. How does it feel finishing 5-under par and four out of the lead?  
 RORY McILROY: It's fine. I'll go out tomorrow and try to get it up there and see what happens. He hits a very similar distance to me and if you can hit driver, you can take a lot of the trouble out of play and I think that's what I tried to do today and what he did as well.   
  
  Q. Did you see earlier on TV?  
 RORY McILROY: Yes, I try not to do it too much because it can influence, but it's good to see where the pins are. Like on 17, I saw a lot of guys going through the green so I knew it was a really firm green. So run it up to the front green and landed pin-high, so stuff like that is beneficial.  
 The eagle was a driver and 5-iron and holed the putt.  
  
  Q. How long was the drive?  
 RORY McILROY: 350, 360. 5-iron to six feet.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT