THE QUINN DIRECT BRITISH MASTERS
September 23, 2007
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   RORY McILROY:  It could have been a lot worse, after the five bogeys going out. But I made a good swing on ten and hit every green coming in, apart from 18, and could have had six birdies. I'm playing well, hitting it really nicely, but I guess I didn't really hole enough putts this week. I holed some good six footers, but didn't really give myself a lot of birdie chances this week. From 15 feet, hit a lot of good putts that didn't go in. Hopefully they will at the dunhill. 
 My first event as a professional has gone well, better than most. I'd give myself a B-minus for the week. There's room for improvement, as there always is. 
 I've enjoyed the attention and signing autographs as professional. I can give stuff away now too, now I'm getting it free! It's been absolutely fantastic and everyone has looked after me ever so well. I was expecting there to be a lot of interest in me, after the Open and Walker Cup, and with me turning pro at a big event like this. I was half-expecting it, so I think I've dealt with it pretty well. 
 "I've got a nice little pay-cheque of about £10-12,000, which is a nice start. What will I spend it on? I may take Holly to the cinema, but I'm actually going to be looking for a house next week. I'm going to move out, but I'm looking in Holywood because I want to be near enough to mum so that she can still do my washing for me! 
 I shall have a nice little break this week to recuperate, before going to Scotland to have a good go at the dunhill links. Playing here this week has been good preparation for that. There may be some more woolly hats needed though - but I love links and I'm looking forward to it. 
 Before then, I'm playing with my Dad (Gerry) against Darren Clarke and his Dad Godfrey tomorrow in an exhibition match at Darren's new course in Sligo. It should be good. My dad says he hasn't been playing for two years, but he's been practicing a lot. He played four times last week. He's off 2, Darren's dad is off six, so Darren and I should just leave them to it I think! 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT