THE QUINN DIRECT BRITISH MASTERS
September 22, 2007
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Shame to finish with the dropped shot on the last? 
 RORY McILROY: It is not my favourite hole on the course, the 18th. I really don't like the drive and just bailed out on it. Hit a really good shot with my second, just hit my putt a bit hard and then over read the par putt. Overall I am very pleased. Shot 70 this morning and it will move me up the field a little. Hopefulyl it will give me an extra hour in bed. 

 Q.  You must be pleased with how your first event as a professional has gone? 
 RORY MCILROY: I knew coming into it I was hitting it well and it is just a matter of holing a few putts. I have holed a couple, not that many and first professional event as a professional, I have made the cut and a pretty decent third round so I am pleased. 

 Q.  Nice galleries following you - is that a big difference having turned pro? 
 RORY MCILROY: Not really. Having big amateur events in Ireland and especially the Walker Cup where the galleries walk up the fairways with you. They are good here and it is nice they were out to support me. 

 Q.  And you will finish early enough tomorrow to watch Man U play Chelsea? 
 RORY MCILROY: I have to get a flight right over to Sligo so not sure so maybe I will listen on the radio. Hopefully Utd will beat them, they should given all the problems they have been having. 

 Q. What's going on in Sligo? 
 RORY MCILROY: I am opening the course at Castle Dargan with Darren Clarke. He designed the course there. I am playing an exhibition there, myself and my dad v Godfrey and Darren in an exhibition match. Dad has been practising hard this week and fiddling with a few drivers. He plays off two. Doesn't play much any more. 

 Q.  How many shots do you give him? 
 RORY MCILROY: I don't know. I haven't played with him for about two years. He doesn't have the time. 

 Q.  Are you going to find it a bit different without him out here with you? 
 RORY MCILROY: Not really as I have quite a few friends out here. He will still come out to the events if I am in contention at the weekend. I won't find it that different and at least I won't have him on the case if I hit a putt too far past. 

 Q.  Do you think about the money? 
 RORY MCILROY: No. I just went out thinking about my score and I wanted to get it back to around level par. I did that for 17 holes. If I can do that again tomorrow and shoot something in 60s I will be pleased with my week. 

 Q.  What was your mood last night - pleased to have made the cut or disappointed to have fallen back? 
 RORY MCILROY: Disappointed to have fallen back. I never came here with the mindset it was good to make the cut. I came here wanting to do my best and if I can do that I know I am good enough to contend out here. 

 Q.  You are a quick player, but the drive on 18 was very quick? 
 RORY MCILROY: I wanted to get it out of the way. It is my least favourite hole on the course and I wanted to get it out of the way. It is a great hole but when I get on the tee shot, the mouth goes dry and I try and hit it up the right and hope for a draw. If it doesn't draw I am left with a five wood in as I was today. 

 Q.  Pace has been an issue this week - have you noticed it is different to amateur events? 
 RORY MCILROY: I think it is quicker than amateur events. I took a bit ot time on the eighth today getting a ruling but we must have got round in three and a half hours which is good. 

 Q.  You were looking at one of the player's new cars - any thoughts on what you might buy? 
 RORY MCILROY: We will see how things go over the next couple of weeks. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT