THE QUINN DIRECT BRITISH MASTERS
September 21, 2007
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   RORY McILROY:  I am happy to make the cut but the way I finished was not good. I rushed my tee shot and hooked it in the water. Hit a great fourth shot in and hit a pretty good putt. I knew two putts would be enough and after a bad start to the back nine that was good. I played well first ten holes and then hit it in that bunker again on 11, had to play out sideways and shot six. I am not trying to say I have been unlucky but I have not had any good breaks. Every bunker I have been up against the lip and not been able to hit more than 50 yards. Hopefully my luck turns a bit over the weekend and I can shoot a couple of rounds in the 60s and get myself up the leaderbaord again. 

 Q.  Were you aware of the cut line coming in? 
 RORY McILROY:  I fancied my putt on the 16th anyway and 17 hit two great shots and a good long putt to three feet and holed that. I am disappointed to make six on the last but it is my first event as a pro and I have made the cut so no more comparisons with Justin Rose. 

 Q.  Not easy out there? 
 RORY McILROY:  It was tough. Foster's 66 was nothing short of incredible. Even putting in the wind you have to allow for that. 

 Q.  Did you rush on the last because of the rain? 
 RORY McILROY:  Yes. It was a real downpour. I didn't want to wait as I could have been there three or four minutes. I just rushed it and it was a mental mistake more than anything and it slipped in my hand as well. 

 Q.  16th? 
 RORY McILROY:  I was pretty angry after my bogey on 15 and hit my drive very hard. Hit a wedge from 125 to 15 feet and holed the putt. 17 hit a good drive and 5-wood to the front. Had a 60-foot putt to three feet. 

 Q.  Shot into the last? 
 RORY McILROY:  6-iron from 190. That was a very good shot. I knew two over was okay and thought three over should be okay. I thought I might have had to make that putt to make the putt. It was a good fourth shot. 

 Q.  Now you have made the cut. 
 RORY McILROY:  Saturday is moving day and if I can get some good weather, I am hitting well, and there is no reason I can't go out and shoot in the mid 60s. I always expected to make the cut so happy to make the cut and hopefully I can improve on it over the weekend. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT