RBC CANADIAN OPEN
June 7, 2019
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Rory, how did you feel about that day out there?
RORY McILROY: The middle 16 holes were really good.  Just the bogey on 1 the bogey on 18.  Sort of started and finished disappointingly.
But a lot better.  Hit it really well.  You know, putted good.  Made some nice ones.  As I said, I made six birdies in 16 holes and the bogeys either side of that.
But, yeah, I mean, perfect conditions out there.  I was saying to the guys I don't think I've played golf this year like in a better day or like better conditions.  It was just perfect out there.
Scores were out there and wish I had -- I set myself a goal of maybe getting to 10-under par with a few holes left.  Didn't quite get to that, but get off to a good start tomorrow and I'll be right in the tournament.
Q. Lots of low scores out there.  Why is this course giving up so many birdies?
RORY McILROY: It's just so soft.  It's so soft, and if you put it in the fairway with 3-woods or driver you've got so many wedges in there.  Guys are that good that it's just you're going to make a lot of birdies.  There are 60, 61, 62s.  That's what it's going to sort of -- probably what I'll need over the weekend is a score like that and then another mid-60s to have a chance.
I wish this course had played a little faster and firmer because it would've been an awesome test.  Scores would've been a lot higher than they are.
Even looking back at some of the Canadian Opens at this golf course, I mean, I think Scott Piercy won with single digits under par last time.  If the weather continues to be like this, hopefully it'll dry up a little bit and can get a little firmer.
But with the way it is out there this week I can just see a lot more birdies over the weekend as well.
Q. How are the crowds out there this week?  There is a sign over that says, Go Rory.  Seems like people are excited to have you here.
MATT KUCHAR: Yeah, it's really nice.  I guess when you haven't played somewhere before it really feels like the crowds appreciate me being here.
It's nice.  It's a pleasure to play in front of them.  Few Raptors fans out there.  They're all fired up for the game tonight.  Yeah, it was a great atmosphere and looking forward to another couple days.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT