DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 29, 2008
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   RODDY WILLIAMS:  Rory, thanks for coming in and joining us here at the 2008 Dubai Desert Classic.  A lot seems to have happened over the last 12 months, how do you feel coming back this time?   
 RORY McILROY:  Yeah, I mean, the last two years have been great, obviously, playing as an amateur and getting a lot of experience out here.  It's a place I love coming back to and it's a place I enjoy.  I love the golf course and yeah, I'm really looking forward to the week.  The course is in great shape, so hopefully it's going to be good.   
 RODDY WILLIAMS:  You played well last week; how disappointing was that last round, and how pleased were you with the week?   
 RORY McILROY:  Yeah, I played well the first three days.  I probably, you know, obviously played the best on the Saturday.  I shot 66 and going into the last round, I felt as if I had a chance.  And if I got off to a fast start, probably even if I didn't get off to a fast start it would have been fast enough.   
 But yeah, I mean, I felt if I could get maybe 4-under after nine, I'd have a good chance.  Yeah, I think after dropping three shots in the first three holes, I probably just tried a bit hard.  I was always chasing, trying to get back, trying to get back and I got it back to level par for the day after 12.   
 And then, you know, missed a few birdies holes on the way in and didn't capitalise on them.  I was disappointed afterwards but all in all it was a good learning week.   
 RODDY WILLIAMS:  Obviously take what you learned from that into this week.   
 RORY McILROY:  Yeah, if I can get myself into position like that again going into the last day, I probably tried just a little too hard.  If I get into that position this week, I'll hopefully know what to do.   
  
  Q.  You played with Adam Saturday and you both played very well; could you imagine the way he played Saturday, could you take that into the week here?   
 RORY McILROY:  Well, we were both at 2-under par and played the back nine and 5-under.  So what is that, 16-under par for 27 holes or something?   
 So yeah, I mean, there was signs that he had it in him, but to go out the last day three behind the leader and shoot 61 is pretty special.   
 Yeah, he obviously is a fantastic player and he's a great ball-striker and if he can just hole a few putts, he's always going to be there or thereabouts.   
  
  Q.  Can we have a couple of interesting recollections from last year?   
 RORY McILROY:  From this tournament?  Yeah, I played pretty well the first two round.  Shot two 69s.  I went 3-under for my round after 16 on the third day, as well, and I think that got me into the top -- at that point, it was the Top 15 and I was actually tied with Tiger because Tiger played 16 and Tiger was walking up 10, and I saw the scoreboard, he was on the same score as me which was pretty cool.  But I dropped two in the last two holes which was pretty disappointing.   
 All in all it was a great week for me.  Yeah, I mean, the thing I remember is coming in the last day, it was a pretty tough day and shot a 76 but it was a great learning curve for me and will stand me in good stead for this career.   
  
  Q.  Did you speak to Tiger?   
 RORY McILROY:  No, I haven't.  Hopefully we'll say hello.   
  
  Q.  Now that you are in the top 200 in the world, is that one of your immediate goals achieved?   
 RORY McILROY:  Yeah, it's pretty cool.  Obviously I just want to keep working my way up the rankings.  But I've got a long way to go so if I can just keep going up, yeah, I mean, a few good tournaments this year, and it would be lovely to get into the Top-100 for the PGA and play in that.  That's one of my maybe goals this year and if I can do that, I'd be very happy.   
  
  Q.  Going back to last year, saying you dropped a couple of shots, is that something that has happened quite a bit to you?   
 RORY McILROY:  No.  It's just coincidence probably.  Happens to me a lot in the Middle East.  I usually finish off quite well to be honest.   
 No, I mean, I think because there's a couple of birdie chances in the last two holes and this week as well.  You think if you can get to 4-under through 16 holes and you have a couple of birdie chances, you can get to five or six but when you don't make the most of your opportunity, then you feel a bit disappointed after that.   
 Hopefully I can go out there this week and play well and finish off the rounds that I wanted.   
  
  Q.  When you mentioned you saw Tiger, were you intimidated and nervous about seeing him at all?  And does that change after being around for a year now, do you feel more confident about yourself?   
 RORY McILROY:  I'm not sure to be honest.  You know, he's a pretty intimidating person.  But I mean, to be honest, he's just like the rest of us.  You know he's just tremendously good at golf.  But you know, it's going to be pretty cool.  It would be great to be able to play with him this week sometime.  But it's just last Sunday there, it looked like it was a walk in the park.  Yeah, he's pretty cool.   
 I don't think I'll get intimidated by him.  He's just really good and he's got -- I've got a lot of respect for him and he's probably the best player that's ever lived.   
  
  Q.  Did you see him in Carlsbad once?   
 RORY McILROY:  It was only two minutes, hi, how you doing, February, 2005.  Yeah, I mean, just saying hi, how you doing.  I've love to get a chance to chat with him and see what he thinks and everything that went on early in his career and how he handled it and what he thought about it.   
  
  Q.  16-under par for 27 holes, does that --   
 RORY McILROY:  Well, the lucky thing is it doesn't happen every week.  But yeah, I mean, it just makes you realise how good these guys are out here and how hard you have to work.   
  
  Q.  You do that already, is it going to enhance your standing?   
 RORY McILROY:  Yeah, I mean, it's hard to say to be honest.  18-under for a weekend is really incredible you know.  But as I said, you look at Adam Scott and you think, if I can work hard enough and have the dedication, I can be as good as him one day.  So, you know, you just -- when you see that, it just makes you want it that much more and makes you work harder.   
  
  Q.  You must feel like you turned pro at the right time when you see The Race to Dubai and the championship for next year; what do you make of all that?   
 RORY McILROY:  Yeah, I haven't really thought about it much, you know, it's going to be great for the Tour.  There's a lot of money and there's going to be a lot of interest in it and it's probably something to rival the FedExCup in the States.  Yeah, it's going to be great.  It going to be a great end of the year, you're going to play in Europe and then come back here for the finale and sort of guaranteed good weather and it's going to be a great golf course, and The European Tour setting up their international headquarters here, as well.   
 I think it's a good really nice place for The European Tour to have outside of the U.K.  I think it will be great for the Tour.   
  
  Q.  Is Dubai going to become a midway base for you; will you be spending more and more time here?   
 RORY McILROY:  Obviously it's a great place to connect if you're coming from the U.K. and want to go to the Far East anywhere or even Australia.  It's a great trip, as well, if you want to come -- say, if I was going to Melbourne or some where, you just fly here, spend three days practising here and then fly onto Melbourne.  It's a perfect base for some of us that are going to travel around the Middle East, Far East.   
 Hopefully it's a place that I can spend more time in the future.  It's a place that I love coming back to and all of the facilities out here are tremendous.  It's a great way of life.   
  
  Q.  Of all the playing partners you've had, who is the best you've played with?   
 RORY McILROY:  It's hard to not say Adam Scott, obviously, because he played so well.  I was very impressed with Aaron Baddeley whenever I played with him down in Melbourne the first two rounds.  He impressed me a lot.  Not just his golf but just his attitude.  He's a really nice guy and I got along real well with him.   
  
  Q. How do they compare?   
 RORY McILROY:  I can't really say.   
  
  Q.  Similar sort of games?   
 RORY McILROY:  Yeah, they both hit it long, both have a nice ball flight.  I'm not sure whether -- I mean, obviously Adam is a little higher-ranked in the world and he's won a bit more.  But it's just something like the way Aaron Baddeley got on with it and seems like he really enjoyed golf and played really well.  If you're talking about ball-striking and everything, Adam is probably the most impressive player I've played with.   
  
  Q.  You said earlier you were trying too hard; what do you mean by that and where does that manifest itself?   
 RORY McILROY:  Yeah, well, whenever I got off to such a bad start, I was always trying to force it, trying to make birdies rather than just trying to let it happen.  And basically, when I was making pars, I was just missing maybe 15-foot putts, and getting a little frustrated and really trying to force the issue and trying to get back on track.  Not sure, probably a little impatient after three dropped shots.   
  
  Q.  What kind of ambitions do you have this week?  What goals have you set for yourself?   
 RORY McILROY:  Nothing.  I think that I can go out with the mind-set that I have for the last couple of weeks, which is just go out and play, I'm pretty confident at the minute and if I can go out and play and not set any goals and just go out and try to make birdies and see what happens; I mean, I'm pretty comfortable with where I'm at with my game at the minute.  Hopefully I can continue on.  I've been hitting it nicely the last couple of weeks and hopefully I can do it this week as well.   
  
  Q.  We saw the tennis in Australia last week and Federer, unbeatable for the last two years, and we saw two young guys come through; is there a similar pattern in golf, sort of younger guys from your generation coming up to challenge Tiger?   
 RORY McILROY:  Yeah, I'd like to think so. I mean everyone -- Tiger has made everyone work so much harder and tried to get so much better.  He's sort of set the benchmark.  It would be great to see younger guys coming up to challenge him the next few years.   
 Yeah, obviously I've love to be part of that group.  It's a long way ahead yet and I just have to work hard and see how it goes.  You can't really predict what's going to happen but if I can work hard enough and be dedicated, I can go pretty far in this game.   
  
  Q.  Watching the tennis last week, were you thinking about that at all?   
 RORY McILROY:  I do follow tennis quite a lot and Federer, I really thought if Nadal could -- I thought maybe Nadal could have gone over but dropped a bit.  I don't think Federer has ever been beat in straight sets in his life.  To come out and do that is very impressive.  You know, maybe it can happen in golf, I'm not sure.   
  
  Q.  Without Gordon this week, is that a problem?   
 RORY McILROY:  Just means I have to work a bit harder and do my own yardages this week.  Yeah, his partner is expecting their first child.  Gordon wanted to come out here and told him, yeah, you have to be home for the birth of your child.  He's happy enough to be home.  He's going to be home for the next five weeks.  I'm going to have some time in Asia after this.   
 So it will be nice to see him whenever I catch up with him and see how the baby is doing and stuff.  I think it's due Sunday of this week.  So it should be nice to get a phone call on Sunday and see what he has.   
  
  Q.  Who is his replacement?   
 RORY McILROY:  Just a friend, Cary Hammond who came over for the week.  Yeah, I just thought it's a pretty fun week for me.  It would be nice to bring a friend over and enjoy it.   
  
  Q.  Can you just tell us --   
 RORY McILROY:  He grew up with me and he's played on teams and stuff and he's pretty -- he plays scratch or something so he's a pretty good player himself.  He actually caddied for me in the Irish Open in 2005 and the Scottish Open in 2005.   
  
  Q.  Was he with you at The Open?   
 RORY McILROY:  He wasn't, no, he wasn't in Carnoustie.  He came to Portugal and watched me in the Portuguese Masters.  As I said he's a pretty good player, so he knows what to do on the bag.  So hopefully he won't have much of a problem.   
  
  Q.  ?   
 RORY McILROY:  No, he's not.  He sort of works in Belfast.  His dad runs bars and nightclubs and stuff and he just runs a few for his dad.   
  
  Q.  How old is he?   
 RORY McILROY:  23.   
  
  Q.  Obviously you like this course and you've played well, what is it about it that you like?   
 RORY McILROY:  I think it's just the layout.  It fits my eye.  I like the definition and the way the fairways, you can sort of see your shots a little better and it's a little more mature than some of the courses over here.  Yeah, it's a great layout and the greens are always really good.  Played nine holes today and in great shape, good greens and I feel as if I'm hitting it well, hopefully I can hole a few putts this week.   
  
  Q.  Greens quicker?   
 RORY McILROY:  Yeah, I thought they were a lot quicker than last week.   
 RODDY WILLIAMS:  Rory, thanks very much for your time again and good luck this week.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT