COMMERCIALBANK QATAR MASTERS PRESENTED BY DOLPHIN ENERGY
January 26, 2008
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   RORY MCILROY: It was a nice way to start the day with an eagle. I hit a nice drive, nice lay up shot and holed a nice wedge from about 120 yards. Straight in the hole, dead weight, didn't touch the sides. Great way to start the day and I kept the momentum going. Missed a chance on the fourth but holed a long one on the seventh which kept me going. Holed a couple on the back nine which left no blemishes on the card so it was a good day.   
  
  Q.  You seemed to feed off each other?   
 RORY MCILROY: Definitely. Made it look very easy without a bogey between us. Adam is a an absolutely  fantastic player and I was really excited to play with him today. I was up with him for most of the round but he just got me at the least. But to keep up with the World Number Eight gives me a lot of confidence.   
  
  Q.  It's another step in the right direction?   
 RORY MCILROY: Hopefully yes. I need to go out again tomorrow and play the same game and if I can do that you never know what might happen. But I probably need another low score tomorrow to have a chance.   
  
  Q.  Do you look back to when you came here 12 months ago to Dubai as an amateur and what has happened since?   
 RORY MCILROY: It has been a whirlwind 12 months for me. I am trying o take it all in my stride but it has been fantastic. If you had said to me I would be doing what I am 12 months on I would have said no way but it just shows what a lot of hard work and dedication can do for your. I worked hard over the winter and I am seeing the benefits this week.   
  
  Q.  Are you enjoying life off the course as well?   
 RORY MCILROY: I am. I like going to different parts of the world, even just once, and then I can make my mind up if I want to go back. I love it here in the Middle East and it is the perfect place to play golf.   
  
  Q.  What do you think of Doha?   
 RORY MCILROY: It is different compared to Dubai and Abu Dhabi which are building everywhere. It is nice to see a bit of desert. From the seventh green you look out on the desert and it is cool to look out and think you are playing a great course in the middle of the desert.   
  
  Q. How will your score hold up?   
 RORY MCILROY: There are some tricky pins out there and the greens will firm up. Maybe 12 or 13 will lead and if that is the case I am only four off the lead. And if I can get off to the start I did  today then you never know. But I think I need the same again tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT