THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
May 31, 2019
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What's the biggest frustration from the last two days?
RORY McILROY: Birdieing the last hole today and missing by one.  I guess I had some misses with my driver that ended up costing.  I hit it better today.  I was cruising and made that bogey on 15.  I had a couple of chances coming in to try to be here for the weekend.  But, yeah, just -- a couple of shots yesterday and just not taking advantage of when I did put it in the fairway and had wedges in my hand.  Better work with the driver and the wedges over the weekend.
Q. What did you play on 15, how were you supposed to play it?
RORY McILROY: I pitched it pin-high or just past the pin and trying to spin it against the slope so it doesn't come back as much.  And just have to pitch it under five up there, I guess, but I didn't feel like I needed to because the way I wanted to flight it with that little draw I thought it was going to skip a couple of yards up and in.  But it just seemed to dig in.  The greens are very, very soft.
Q. Is it a situation where you're glad to have Canada next week?
RORY McILROY: Oh, yeah, a hundred percent.  I was glad to have it either way, whether this was a good week or not.  I feel like I really need to play my way into the U.S. Open considering how I've played the last three years.
Q. Can you share what happened with the fan where you hit the foul ball?
RORY McILROY: Yeah, I guess I caught him right under his lip.  He had like a pretty deep gash sort of on his chin.  I'm sorry, not much a glove does for that, maybe stop the bleeding a little bit (laughter.)  I just said I'm sorry.  I felt bad because I usually -- I thought it was going to pitch in the first cut and run into the heavier stuff, I didn't think it was going to fly all the way there.  I felt bad about that.  But he seemed to be okay.
Q. This being the only Ohio event now, are you going to miss Firestone?
RORY McILROY: I'm very much going to miss Firestone it was one of my favorite events of the year.  Yeah, it's a shame because I love going there.  I love the golf course.  I love the feel of it.  Fans were great.  So, yeah, the over 50 guys, they'll enjoy themselves there the next few years and hopefully we get back at some stage.
Q. Is it a bummer that you might not play there until you're 50?
RORY McILROY: I may play there, maybe not in a competitive tournament.  Yeah, it's a shame.  I think it was one of the better courses on Tour and it's a shame to see it -- for us not to play it anymore.
Q. Are you going to Memphis?
RORY McILROY: Yeah.
Q. Can you picture by the way the schedule is so condensed going from Portrush to Memphis?
RORY McILROY: Yeah, I would think so.  But then again it's the last chance for some big FedExCup points going into the playoffs and trying to get yourself up there.  I think the only way I wouldn't play Memphis is if something pretty special were to happen in Portrush.  I could still be drunk on the first tee on Thursday.  (Laughter).






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT