PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 18, 2019
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Your best score of the week, 1-under par 69 and I guess it could have been better, a couple lipouts on putts I thought were going in.
RORY McILROY: Yeah, it definitely could have been better.  It's the best I hit it all week for sure.  I sort of got it going on the front nine, and a couple of loose shots on the back nine, and obviously the back nine is tougher than the front.  But yeah, I mean, I played well.  I didn't convert as many chances as I would have liked but it was an improvement over the last couple days.
Q. What are some holes we should be aware of as the afternoon unfolds?
RORY McILROY: Yeah, I think 11, 13 and 14 are sort of playing downwind or down off the right, so they are opportunities on the back nine.  12 and 15 are playing long into the wind, you know, so they are two tough ones.  But yeah, I mean, overall, with the sun, it's firming up a little bit.  You know, it's still -- I still think it's pretty scorable.  If Brooks hits it the way he did it the first couple days, I can see him shooting a good score in the 60s, and if he does that, obviously it's going to be very hard to get near him.
Yeah, it will be interesting this afternoon.  I still think there's a score out there.  I think guys shooting 65s and 66s, you could see this afternoon.
Q. When you say there's a score out there, do you think there's a score out there in you, and the way that you started today, it looked like you could have been on a run.
RORY McILROY: Oh, yeah, definitely.  I hit the ball as good as I've hit it in a while and given myself plenty of chances.  If I had just made a couple of putts, I could have definitely shot 65,66 easily out there today.  Yeah, there is a score in me.
Q. Is there momentum that you can gather tomorrow and hopefully bring that round together and just have at least a high finish here?
RORY McILROY: Yeah, I mean, if you look at the last nine I played yesterday and the first nine I played today, I was 7-under par for those 18 holes.  It's just about putting it all together on the right day.
Q. What was the distance on 4, the second shot?
RORY McILROY: 225 uphill, so playing like 236.
Q. And near hole-in-one on 8?
RORY McILROY: That was 224 down.  I think that was like down 12 maybe.  So it was a good 5-iron, perfect number.
Q. How good was it to grind out a score?
RORY McILROY: It was nice to see the putt drop on 4 after the first three.  Yeah, just counting the chances I had out there.  I definitely felt like I left four or five out there, but you have to put it all together to shoot a really good score.  I was close to doing that today, but just not quite.
Q. What do you think when you see what Brooks is doing?
RORY McILROY: It's awesome.  It's so good.  It's great to watch.  I watched most of it yesterday afternoon.  He's definitely, in these events, playing on a different level than most anyone else.  Great to watch.  You know, it will be fun this afternoon to see if he goes out there and just keeps his foot down and extends that lead.
Q. How much do you wish it was you?  Must be frustrating when you're down in the field.
RORY McILROY: I mean, no, because I feel that would be very entitled.  I sort of -- I haven't played well enough to be out there, and that's the way it is.
Q. How much Irish support is there in the New York area, as opposed to the rest of the U.S.?
RORY McILROY: I feel like I get a lot of good support everywhere I go in the US.
Q. But in New York specifically, are they louder?  Do they identify themselves?
RORY McILROY: A little bit.  Nothing more than anywhere else.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT