MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 12, 2019
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  RORY McILROY: Yeah, I mean I'm happy to be where I'm at, especially having to get it up and down from 180 yards on the 15th to make par. So I played the last four in 1‑under to sort of be safe for the weekend, I guess. I was thinking, you know, thinking at 15, I have to play the last three under par just to make the cut. To be here on the weekend and only be seven back, I'm really pleased.

Q. After that eagle on 8 were you hoping that was the sort of catalyst to kick start your round?
RORY McILROY: Eagle on 8 was fantastic. That got me going. I had a great putt on 9, I don't know how that didn't go in. Got up and down on 10. And then the hooter blew on 11 and that sort of stopped any of the momentum. So I just had to try to pick it up a little from there.

Q. Going into the weekend the weather can be a bit nasty, is is that going to be in your favor?
RORY McILROY: I think it's going to be in the guys that are chasing, I think it's just so bunched. There's so many guys with a chance coming into the last two days. So if I can get off to a decent start tomorrow, shoot 33 or 32 on the front nine, I'm right back in it.

Q. Do you feel like you're not that far away?
RORY McILROY: Yeah, I don't feel like I'm that far away. To shoot under par today considering some of the breaks I got and some of the shots I hit, and I'm sort of‑‑ I'm right there. 

Q. 16 looks like you were really enjoying it?
RORY McILROY: Yeah, just give me putts on 16 and I'll take those. 

Q. You do seem so close. Is it frustrating that you are so close and you're just not quite‑‑
RORY McILROY: Look, I don't know, I mean standing here I'm much happier tonight than I was last night coming off the course. I just bogeyed the last two holes, in comparison 1‑under for the last four to get myself into the weekend, thinking on the middle of the 15th fairway I have a realistic chance are not being here. So to get in and be seven back, I'm pretty happy.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT