PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 19, 2019
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
RORY McILROY: Today, it's so tough out there, I've moved up the leaderboard quite a lot, and my goal at the start of the day was to get into the Top-10.  Not sure if I'll crack it or not.  I'm 13th at the minute.  Played well and good way to finish off the week.   
 Q.  You didn't let your head drop, you stuck at it?  
RORY McILROY: Yeah, stuck at it the whole way.  72-hole golf tournament and you've got to try till the very end and I did that this week.  You know, it wasn't good enough to be up there in contention but I made improvements each and every day, which is a good thing.   
 Q.  So many putts that seemed to skim the hole.  Was it a case of coulda, shoulda, woulda?  
RORY McILROY: I try not to use the word should, I think it's a bad word, especially in golf.  It swings in roundabouts.  I missed a few, but I was strokes gained putting, leader in that today stats-wise.  So it swings in roundabouts.  It all evens out at the end of the week, I feel like.   
 Q.  The speed at which Brooks has gone from zero to four --  
RORY McILROY: I just don't understand why he doesn't do it more often.  That's my thing.  He obviously gets into these mindsets of the majors, and he really goes and gets into a different sort of state.  You'd obviously have to ask him.  But it's what he's capable of, obviously.  But it's awesome.  It's great to watch.  You know, I've unfortunately played pretty early the last couple days, so I've been able to watch quite a lot of it, and he's just really in control.  He's got the golf ball under control with all aspects of his game, and I think more important than that is his mind is where it needs to be.   
 Q.  You've seen how hard it is to keep a run like that going, and going.  What do you think the biggest challenge he'll face in trying to sustain what he's doing even longer?  
RORY McILROY: Yeah, look, I don't know because I don't really know Brooks that well.  I don't know his routines.  The big thing for me was finding the time to, or making sure that you have the time to keep yourself at a level where you need to be at.  You know, saying no to things.  Just making sure that golf and your performance is still the No. 1 priority.  When you start to win majors and you start to get all these opportunities, you know, it depends.  You have to make the most of those, as well, because at the end of the day, we're here to make a living and have a livelihood and enjoy ourselves, but at the same time, you know, you have to make sure that your performance stays where it needs to stay.   
 Q.  With the rough --  
RORY McILROY: I think if -- then even firm greens sort of -- you know, Pebble Beach in a few weeks' time, there you go.  Hilton Head.  I don't know, Sawgrass to a certain extent.  You know, courses that aren't that long and put a premium on not more accuracy, but angles, and you know, making sure you miss it in the right spots.  I think that's almost a lost art in the game.   
 Q.  Would you like a similar setup for The Ryder Cup here?  
RORY McILROY: I think the fans would like to see a few more birdies.  I'd like to -- not like to think.  I would say that for match play, it should be a little more of a generous setup, I would think.   
 Q.  What do you think the crowds will be like in 2024?  
RORY McILROY: No comment.   
 Q.  Still going to head to Pebble?  You have a couple tournaments in between.  
RORY McILROY: Yeah, looking forward to it.  Last time I played Pebble in a U.S. Open, I played with Tom Watson the first two rounds, so that was pretty cool.   
Yeah, I'm looking forward to it.  I'm looking forward to that run of golf.  Actually my record in the U.S. Open hasn't been very good the last few years.  So I wanted to mix it up a little bit, so it's going to be my third tournament in a row, playing Memorial, Canada and then Pebble.  Looking forward to that run of golf and looking forward to getting my game sharp and in good shape for that major.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT