THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 16, 2019
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Some thoughts on your day in contention again.
RORY MCILROY: Yeah, yeah.  In a good position, not the best position I could be in, but I thought after the start today that to play the last 16 holes in 4-under par with no bogeys was a good effort.  So yeah, just got off to a bit of a slow start.  I don't mind bogeying the 1st, that's fine.  But then the bogey at the 2nd hole was a little disappointing.  But I showed some character out there, showed some grit.  Got a few back, it would have been nice to pick up a couple in the last few holes, but I'm still right there going into tomorrow.
Q. First time in the history of this event a European is 1, 2, 3 at the top of the leaderboard.  Never happened before ever.  Is this just an inevitable happening, given what Europe has been doing over the last 20 years that it was bound to happen?
RORY MCILROY: Yeah, I think it's a coincidence more than anything else.  I don't think you can put it down to much.
Q. How do you look at your par-5 play today?  Do you look at it like great that I shot what I did without getting what I should out of those par-5s?
RORY MCILROY: Yeah, I haven't played the par-5s that good the last couple weeks, and Bay Hill especially last week, you needed to play the par-5s well and I didn't on the last day.  Only played them in even par today.  It's definitely, you know -- it's definitely an area tomorrow that I need to really concentrate on and try to make the most of those holes because it is getting difficult out there, definitely with the conditions the way they might be tomorrow you got to take advantage of the easier holes.
Q. Do you find something technically?  You only hit four fairways which says --
RORY MCILROY: I know because I hit it really good the first couple days.  I don't know, I mean, just maybe getting ahead of it a little bit.  I missed a few to the right, so maybe just getting a little quick from the top, probably something very simple.
Q. How risky did you perceive that second shot on 16?
RORY MCILROY: I didn't think it was that risky.  It just came out so hot.  I didn't think it was going to come out as hot as it did and even if it goes -- like it did go in the water -- you can drop it and I still had a reasonable chance for birdie.  So I didn't think twice about taking it on.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT