SENTRY TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 3, 2019
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talk about today, I thought it was a pretty good round for you.
RORY MCILROY: Yeah, it was nice, nice way to start the tournament.  I needed that finish.  Birdied three of the last four holes.  But I was giving myself plenty of chances.  I mean it's breezy out there, the conditions are tough.  I think the scoring for the conditions are very, very good.  Obviously this is the way the wind usually blows here, so the guys sort of know how to deal with it.  But I think anything in the 60s today was a good start.
Q. You dealt with windy conditions your whole life, I would think, do you enjoy the challenge of high winds like this?
RORY MCILROY: I do.  I think it's to start the year off it's actually not bad because it gets you into hitting shots and visualizing things and sort of mixing it up a little bit.  I think starting the year off here compared to somewhere like Palm Springs is going to be a little bit different where you're playing in a dome.  But yeah I don't mind it.  The golf course is designed for the wind to blow like this, so I think it plays well.
Q. The greens are tricky here.  You put the Spyder back in.  Does the stroke feel good?
RORY MCILROY: Stroke feels good.  One of the things at the end of last year I was struggling with a little bit was just alignment.  And with the Spyder I just feel like I aim it a little bit better, so that's the reason for it.  I messed around with it, it's not as if it went in the bag yesterday.  I've been messing around with it for the last few months and it feels pretty good.  I got a couple of heavier weights for it this week because the greens are pretty slow, especially into the grain, so I needed to swing a little bit more and it's felt good.
Q. Lastly, for a guy who's been all over the world, when you look at these views, where does Maui, where does Hawaii rank?  I mean this is pretty awesome.
RORY MCILROY: Yeah, it's right up there.  It's gorgeous.  I didn't know Maui had so many different landscapes.  You've got, you look out there and it looks like Hawaii, but then you go two miles down the road and it looks like you could be in Ireland, like just where you know it's sort of linksy and that sort of long fescue and you're in a short leave shirt, so you know you're not there, but it is beautiful, yeah.  Nice way to start the year.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT