ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 7, 2019
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Just even par 72 as defending champion.  Couple birdies in the last few holes, must be a nice feeling to at least get a comeback?  
RORY MCILROY: Yeah, look it would have been nice to shoot under par.  In the end the putt in the last looked in the whole way but didn't drop.  But it's tricky out there, the conditions are pretty tough, the course is drying out already.  With the way the forecast is, it's only going to get even trickier as the week goes on.  So I'm three shots off the top-10, if I go out tomorrow and shoot something in the 60s, I'll be right there for the weekend.   
 Q.  Short game seemed to be working pretty well today.  Must be satisfied with that.  
RORY MCILROY: I needed to be, yeah, I hit some wayward ones.  But, yeah, look, it's nice to have all aspects, even if you're off with your driving or iron play, I scrambled pretty well for the most part today and I holed a couple of good putts when I needed to, so I kept it together.  It could have been worse, even par isn't too bad.  And as I said, I'll regroup and try to go out there tomorrow morning and post a good score.   
 Q.  What's your biggest challenge moving forward?  
RORY MCILROY: Probably just hitting fairways.  The rough's pretty penal this week so if I can just get the ball in play a little bit more and hit fairways, play the par-5s well, like you have to around here, if that's, those are two key things, if I do those well over the next three days I should still have a chance.   
 Q.  Talk about the outfit.  Who wore it better?  
RORY MCILROY: Arnie, definitely wore it better.  But just a little tribute to him.  It's a -- he was a bit of a sort of style icon, I guess, and, yeah, we just wanted to do something that was attribute to him and that picture of him in the navy top and these colored pants is a very iconic photo, so just trying to sort of emulate that a bit.   
 Q.  What would he have said about the putter flip on the lipout on the last hole?  
RORY MCILROY: Hopefully -- probably just to have the same attitude as I had.  And it's one of those things, I hit a good putt, couldn't really do anything else.  If he was here I would have told him I'm sorry I put a little dent in his 18th green, but I repaired it straight away.  And, but, yeah, no, it was one of those ones you sometimes you hit good putts and they don't fall.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT