SENTRY TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 6, 2019
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  We talked yesterday about how you were going to approach the final round versus last year.  (No Microphone.)  
RORY MCILROY: No, not at all.  I felt like I made a few bad swings on double crossed that driver on 14, and then hit the 5-iron left on 15.  But apart from that I hit good shots, I gave myself plenty of chances, just couldn't get anything to drop.  Anything that was right-to-left I missed on the high side and anything left-to-right I missed on the low side.  So Just one of those days where it just didn't happen.   
 Q.  Does it feel a little bit like deja vu in terms of you had some chances last year?  
RORY MCILROY: Not really.  My attitude was much better today, I didn't press at all, I was very patient, it's just something I'm going to have to persist in, just keep putting myself in these positions and honestly, I don't think anyone could have beaten Xander today.  I would have had to have went out there and shot 9-under par at the time.  So obviously I could have shot a better score, but I did what I wanted to do.  I gave myself plenty of chances, I hit most of the fairways, I hit most of the greens, just couldn't get the ball to drop.   
 Q.  Do you take more from this because it is your first start of the year and all the work you put in in the off-season?  
RORY MCILROY: Yeah, it's definitely -- I'm going to go home and sort of reflect on this week and reflect on what was good and what maybe wasn't so good and work on a few things and come back out and having learned a little more about my game than I knew coming into this week.   
 Q.  What were you most pleased with and displeased with this week?  
RORY MCILROY: I mean I put a new driver a new ball and a new putter in the bag and they all felt really good.  I felt like I hit good putts, just couldn't get them to go.  But the driver performed really well, the ball was great.  I think, myself, I think this week I showed a little more versatility in my game.  I was hitting different shots, left to right, left to right, high to low.  Some things I wasn't maybe quite as comfortable doing last year.  So overall it's been a positive week even though I wish I would have played a little better this week.   
 Q.  Do you think it will pay off the rest of the year?  
RORY MCILROY: I think so.  It's nice to get up and running in the calendar year.  Again, we want to play well, there's four weeks of the year you really want to play well, but there's obviously other weeks of the year you want to play well too and it's just about building towards the bulk of the season.  It was nice to get a start in this early and see where my game's at and definitely something to build and improve on.   
 Q.  Do you know when you're playing next?  
RORY MCILROY: No.  I'm going to go home and sort of reassess where I'm at.  I'll definitely play once before L.A., I'm going to play L.A., I'll probably play once before that but I sort of haven't made my mind up yet.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT