THE RYDER CUP
September 30, 2018
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Describe how it feels to be a part of the European Ryder Cup Team, your fourth out of five?  
RORY McILROY: It's incredible.  We took a really tough loss at Hazeltine a couple of years ago and that stung.  That was my first experience of what it feels like to be on the other side, so coming in here, obviously none of us want to feel like that object a Sunday afternoon.   
I think that the leadership's been great.  I think the players, the rookies have been phenomenal.  You know, we've all just stuck to our jobs and we've all -- one of the great things about today is we all won The Ryder Cup points.  Jon Rahm got a point and Thorbjørn got a point and I'm delighted for them, it means that all 12 -- it validates what Thomas has wanted to do.  It validates who made the team, the picks he made.  It's a culmination of two years of very hard work and I'm delighted for everyone that's a part of it.   
 Q.  Thomas is a very modest man and won't take any of the credit, so I'll let you give him some.  What did he do particularly well?  
RORY McILROY: He's been incredible.  Just over the past two years, he's been great.  He's been in constant contact with all the guys that were either going to be on the team or on the periphery, and you know, he's built up a real rapport within the squad.  Not just with the players and himself but within the players, as well.  We've had this WhatsApp group going for a few weeks now, and it's been a bit of a love-in for the last week, I'll tell you that.  It's been fantastic to be a part of and one of the great things about Ryder Cups is you forge friendships that last a lifetime.  I think a few of those friendships have been forged this week.   
 Q.  What about the caddies?  They never get a mention and they do a fantastic job for all of you guys under immense pressure.  
RORY McILROY: 100 per cent, the caddies have been phenomenal this week, and I think they have built up a great rapport, as well.  The caddies are from all different parts of the world and I think they all came together collectively in a group and were all in this together.  It's the 12 caddies and the caddies helping the caddies, and the wives and the partners, the players, the vice captains, the captain, everyone involved.  It's a huge effort to be able to do what we've done today.   
 Q.  When we first saw Paris National, we said, wow, what a Ryder Cup course this would make.  Is this the best atmosphere?  
RORY McILROY: Unbelievable, you just look at the stands on the first and the 18th, and the natural terrain of this place just is built for big event golf.  I'm so happy that the Ryder Cup has come here and it would be very fitting if it were to return here one day.   
 Q.  How daunting are those last four holes under Ryder Cup pressure?  
RORY McILROY: Very daunting.  You know, all that water -- they were a little nice to us with the pin positions on 15 and 18 today.  They didn't stick them quite as close to the water but 16 was hanging off the edge there.  It's tough, especially today, left wind, for most of the right-handers, it's a tough wind to come in on.   
We thought this course would suit us and suit our sort of style of games and it's worked out that way.   
 Q.  Let's talk party.  Tell me what happens at a Ryder Cup party.  You've been at a few now?  
RORY McILROY: Francesco and Tommy have gotten awfully close this week so I don't know what's going to happen between them tonight.  It's been incredible.  The atmosphere has been fantastic.  Even after the loss at Hazeltine, we had a good time on Sunday night because it's the last time we're all going to be together for a while this.  One will be extra special.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT