BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 8, 2018
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Leaderboard today with that 63.  I'm sure you were a little disappointed with the 69 yesterday.  What improved from your game today?
RORY MCILROY: Yeah.  I hit more fairways again today and I putted better.  I think I lost three strokes on the greens yesterday.  I missed a couple of short ones and today I holed the putts that I needed to and hit more fairways and gave myself opportunities.
Weird today.  They put a lot of the tees up and the conditions were -- won't say it was -- obviously it was very wet.  Don't shoot 65, you were losing ground.  One of those days you had to stay aggressive.
Q. You had a rare close out at each 9.  Came out a double bogey on 8, the eagle and the birdie on 18.
RORY MCILROY: I was in between a 3-wood and 5-wood.  I cut a 3-wood in there, I thought I left it a little far right.  The course softened up, landed up on the high part of the hill there, it stopped pretty quickly.  It was nice to hit that shot and obviously nice to hole this putt after making the double bogey on the 8th hole.
Yeah, it was nice to close out the front-9 like that.
Q. Gives you out in 31 and come to the 18th hole, you got this long one.
RORY MCILROY: Yeah.  Said to my caddy, Harry, it reminded me of the putt I holed in Abu Dhabi earlier this year up the hill left to right.  I guess I had good sort of good vibes and good memories and it was nice to see it go in.  It was hit a little bit firm.  No, it was very good.
Q. 62 on the first day.  How did you like rebound today?
RORY MCILROY: This is my -- I thought I did really well after the double bogey on the 8th hole out of the blue.  Hit a decent tee shot and bad chip shot.  Played the back the back-9 the way I did and obviously that birdie on the last.  Puts me in a great position going into tomorrow.
Q. How does it play, was it a key shot you have to hit the right thing at the right time, would this be one of them and (inaudible) --
RORY MCILROY: I was really in between.  You can see how far left.  I was trying to hit this big cut with a 3-wood, take a lot of yardage off of it.  I thought I overcut it but it landed really soft and hit the part of the hill and settled down there about ten feet.  It was nice to bounce back and it did give me some momentum going into the back-9.
Q. 69 yesterday.  Tell me about the rollercoaster all three days.
RORY MCILROY: I didn't have the speed yesterday.  This is actually a really similar putt to the putt I hit in Abu Dhabi.  I sort of had good vibes over it.  It was nice for it to go in.  It's such a funny game.  I missed a couple of short ones yesterday and I holed a couple of long ones today.  I just needed to get the speed again.  I was leaving everything short and when even when I did get the ball to the hole yesterday I was on the high side.  A little less break.
Q. I thought great control out there to get that score out of that round.
RORY MCILROY: I'm really proud of myself how I bounced back after the double on 8 with the eagle and how I played the back-9.  I just said the conditions were get a little difficult out there with the wind and just got a little chilly.  Yeah, just to sort of grind it out and make some birdies on the way in and obviously it's always a bonus to finish like that with the putt on the last hole.  It was a day when you had to shoot 65 or 64 not to go backwards on the leaderboard.
Q. You touched on the eagle.  How important was it to get those two big swings on a big hole uphill like that to get back into it?
RORY MCILROY: It was massive.  The double sort of came out of the blue.  It wasn't that I hit a bad tee shot.  It was -- maybe a lack of concentration with the chip shot.  So, you know to go double and then eagle and get those two shots back straight away, it was a nice sort of momentum builder going into the back.
Q. With the uncertainty of the next couple of days, how important was to it climb as high as you could today?
RORY MCILROY: Yeah.  Really important.  I was looking at that leaderboard all day just thinking we don't know if this is going to be a three-round tournament, we don't know if it's going into Monday or Tuesday.  Right now, worse case scenario, I'm T-3 and I'd love to obviously get out there and play one more round and try to win this thing but it really just depends what the weather does over the next couple days.
Q. Rory, it could be a long day tomorrow or you don't have the play at all.
RORY MCILROY: See what happens.  Get up here early.  I'll be ready to play.  I'll be ready to go.  I hope we play.  I feel like my game is in good shape and I'd love to get another crack at it out there and have a chance to take the lead but, you know, maybe that chance won't happen until Monday if it goes to that and the good thing is we don't have a tournament next week.
If it is pushed into Monday or even into Tuesday we have the time.  Hopefully the guys that make the decisions make the right one and we can play a full tournament.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT