PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 9, 2018
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How do you feel about the round?
RORY McILROY: Yeah, it wasn't that easy out there.  The scores sort of reflect that.  Obviously, Rickie is at 5.  A few guys are at 3.  I wish I could have taken advantage of the two par 5s.  I gave myself a few chances.  I finished the round off with nine pars, and it could have been a little better.
The wind is getting up a little bit.  It's sort of swirling, which is making it tricky.  I feel like I hit good putts out there today.  They either didn't want to break or they hit something.  So it was tough.  You just had to stay patient.
Q. (No microphone) the last couple of days?
RORY McILROY: Yeah, but I didn't hear any of that from the players.  That's from people that aren't playing in the tournament that haven't played the golf course, and they really don't know.  So it's not as -- you've got to drive it on the fairway, and even when you do, with how soft the greens are and they're up on these little ledges, the ball, you have to be so accurate with your irons.
Tiger, I thought that his iron play was really good today, and he got a few birdies out of it.  You've got to be really dialed in with your mid and short irons.  If you are and you can put it on the fairway, you can shoot 4, 5, 6 under par.
Q. (No microphone)?
RORY McILROY: Yeah, I started feeling it the weekend of Firestone.  Funny enough, it hurts the most with chipping because I sort of hold the angle a little bit.  It's just that in there.  The whole forearm has been tight.  I hit a lot of balls last week at Firestone working on a few things, and it's just a little inflamed and a little tight, but it's fine.
Q. (No microphone)?
RORY McILROY: These are the anti-inflammatory patches, so yeah.
Q. How was the golf course today?
RORY McILROY: Yeah, I drove the ball a bit better.  Yeah, everything was just a bit better.  It's amazing here when it is soft and the fairways are wider, tee shots that find the fairway here were probably in the trees at Akron last weekend.  So it was a little more generous.
Q. The atmosphere for a Thursday, was it about as electric as you could get?
RORY McILROY: Yeah, Thursday morning, it was pretty cool to be out there 8:30 in the morning and have an atmosphere like that.  J.T. and I were saying it's going to get a little crazy tomorrow afternoon.  So we're looking forward to that.
Q. (No microphone).  Do you enjoy that part of the experience with Tiger?
RORY McILROY: Yeah, it is.  It's cool.  I said to Harry out there.  Harry caddied for me in the 2005 Irish Open when I was 16, and then we're walking the fairways in a group like this today, 13 years later.  So it's pretty cool.  Yeah, it's always nice to be a part of these groups.  You know, it's something that I have sort of got used to, and that's a nice position to be in in this game.
But, yeah, the cool thing about golf is Tiger is playing with us.  When Tiger came out -- he talked about it at the Champions Dinner a couple of nights ago, saying he played the first two rounds of Valhalla in 2000 with Jack Nicklaus, and that was his last PGA.  So to see the generations overlap in golf is pretty cool.
Q. What was your best shot of the day?
RORY McILROY: My shot of the day?  I don't think I had one.  I don't know.  They were all okay.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT