PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 2018
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Some of the goals were to make sure you were ready mental wise, physical wise, to play your best when it really matters.  Do you think that worked?  
RORY McILROY: I got healthy.  So I guess it did work.  I've been able to play a full schedule this year, so, yeah, that was the objective, taking that time off, was to get myself healthy so that I could come out and play a normal schedule like I always do.   
Yeah.  I mean, look, it's been a year where there's been glimpses of showing what I can do, but I just haven't done it often enough, I guess.  But, yeah, obviously, it's the Major season over, and we've got to wait a few months for the next one, but there's still a lot of golf to play this year and quite a bit to play for.   
 Q.  Obviously, you challenged strongly in two of the Majors.  I just wonder when you analyze, after those weeks and you look back and you analyze your performance, do you see a particular area for room for improvement on the course?  
RORY McILROY: Yeah, there's a lot of room for improvement.  My swing really hasn't been where I want it to be.  It was pretty good at the start of the year.  I had a couple of months to work on it, but it's just sort of regressed as the season went on and you start to play tournaments, you start to fall back into some of the habits that you don't want to fall back into.   
And then that's just being inconsistent.  I've missed the ball right.  I've miss the ball left.  I haven't taken one side of the golf course out of play, and that's been the real weakness.  You know, you stand up on a tee shot, and it be would nice to know that you can eliminate one side of the golf course, and this year I haven't felt like that.   
So inconsistency with the swing has been the big area.  I mean, if you look at my statistics from -- especially with approach play on my irons, and even my driving, even though it's been okay, I've sort of -- you know, there's been a two-way miss with sort of everything throughout the bag, and that obviously isn't a good thing.  So that's something I need to work on.   
 Q.  What about preparations off the course?  There's a lot of focus, especially this week with Brooks talking last night, about his hour and a half in the gym and all that.  Did you scale back the gym and other areas of off course work?  
RORY McILROY: It's just one of those things where I've given myself chances, and I just haven't quite played the golf I've needed to (inaudible).   
 Q.  You're playing the Ryder Cup obviously.  
RORY McILROY: I hope I'm going to play in the Ryder Cup.  I'm not sure.  I need to assess where I'm at.  I think the best thing for me to do right now is just sort of take a couple days off, reflect on what I need to do going forward.  The best thing might be to take that first FedExCup week off and work on my game and come back, hopefully, in a better place for Boston.   
Historically, the first FedEx playoff event hasn't been my best event of the four.  I've played well in Boston.  I've played pretty well in the other two.  So, yeah, we'll see.  I'll see how I feel.  I'll do some practice this week and see if I feel ready to go there and play, obviously, five out of six weeks or whatever it is leading up to the Ryder Cup.  But, yeah, we'll see.   
 Q.  How do you think you'll remember this Major championship season?  
RORY McILROY: Probably won't (laughter).  I mean, I don't think there was anything all that memorable about it.   
 Q.  You had two good chances.  
RORY McILROY: Yeah, I had two -- I had one good chance.  I guess I had two, but I didn't really contend the back nine at Augusta.  Yeah, I mean, I give myself two chances.  You know, I wanted to give myself chances and get into contention.  I didn't get myself into contention in '17, I don't think.  I don't really think I got myself into contention in '16.  So I guess it's been a positive from that standpoint.  As I said, there's still quite a lot of golf to play.  I'm potentially playing eight more events until the end of the year.  As I said, there's still a lot of golf to play.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT