TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 24, 2018
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Shot a 67 today.  11-under overall on the tournament after a couple weeks playing here, where do you assess your game is right now?
RORY MCILROY: Yeah, I've still got some work to do.  I played well on Thursday, but then I sort of just reverted back to a couple of bad habits that I've been in and struggled the last three days.
But it's getting there.  I'm looking forward to a few days off.  I basically haven't missed a day of golf in about five weeks, so looking forward to putting the clubs away for a few days next week.
But, yeah, I'm proud of myself.  I hung in there.  I didn't have my best stuff this week, but I'll finish maybe in the top 10, so it's not too bad.
Q. What does Rory McIlroy do when he puts the clubs away, and when are you going to pick them back up?
RORY MCILROY: So, going back down to Florida.  We're building a house at the minute, so I'll probably be there for most of next week that's really it.  I don't have much more planned.  Yeah, just not see the golf course until next weekend, I think that's the plan.
Q. Where are you playing next?
RORY MCILROY: Irish Open the week after next, and then play a little bit of links golf and get ready for The Open.
Q. Talk a little about your week, Rory, and how you got close, but Casey had such a big lead going in?
RORY MCILROY: Yeah, I mean, I knew I wasn't going to contend, but I just wanted to shoot a good score and try to take away some positives, I guess.  But, yeah, it's been a funny week.  It was really good at the start.  I felt like some of the work I did over the weekend has started to pay off.  Then it wasn't so good the middle two days.  Then today was actually a little bit better.  I did some work last night on the range, but I think just physically and mentally just a little bit tired, and looking forward to a few days off.
Q. Are you glad you came back?
RORY MCILROY: Yeah, very glad I came back.  It's my second time.  I really enjoyed it.  Love the golf course, love the people.  Travelers put on a fantastic tournament, so I'll definitely be back.
Q. Does hitting the ball as well as you can tee to green this week make it even more frustrating?
RORY MCILROY: I don't feel like I did hit it that well tee to green.  I think the stats say that I did, but I really didn't feel like I did.  I wasn't really in control of my ball much.  My iron play especially wasn't, you know -- it just didn't feel that comfortable.  My driving was good.  I drove the ball well, which was a big positive.  I put a new driver in the bag this week and that helped.
But it says that I'm probably number one tee to green, but it didn't feel like it.  Yeah, obviously, I would have loved to have putted better.  But I felt like all parts of my game just needed to be a little bit sharper.
Q. Jordan mentioned the fact that next year's Open is on the west coast.  He alluded to the fact that it might be tough for him to come back to Travelers next year.  What do you think it is for you?  How tough might it be?
RORY MCILROY: I think a lot of guys are in the same boat there, especially with the way the schedule is next year.  There's going to be quite a lot of events leading into the U.S. Open.  So, yeah, I think when the U.S. Open is back at Winged Foot in 2020 you'll have a really stellar field again, but just to go from west coast to east coast after playing such a big tournament, might be a bit of a stretch for some guys.
Q. What is the change in the driver this week?
RORY MCILROY: I changed back to my old shaft, and I just put a -- it's the same head, but just a new head.
Q. I know you've got another start in between now and The Open.  But where do you feel your game is kind of at with Carnoustie a few weeks away, going there?
RORY MCILROY: It's okay.  Look, it's never that far away.  I can hold it together and play okay, but just need to do a little bit of work and get my confidence up if anything.  I'm just a little uncomfortable over the ball at the minute.  Just knowing my swing isn't quite where I want it to be and I'm still working on it.  Hopefully just some more practice and a few more reps and seeing some better shots on the course I'll be a little more comfortable going into the third major there.
Q. Is that still what you kind of alluded to the other day of getting back to that 2011?
RORY MCILROY: Yeah, just some of the feelings and controlling the club face better and controlling it more with my sequencing and my body rather than having to sort of manipulate the face a little bit at impact.
Q. Given two options, would you rather be swinging it really well, be struggling with the putter or struggling with the swing and putting it very well?
RORY MCILROY: Swinging it really well and struggling with the putter.  I think if you look back all through history and the guys that have done really well and been consistent throughout their careers, they've always been superior ball strikers.  Then they'll have their weeks on the green which are good and some weeks that aren't.
Yeah, you look at someone like a Vijay Singh or, I don't know, whoever else.  There are a lot of players that have had consistently good careers like Cabrera where they get the putter hot and they'll have their weeks, but they're never struggling to make cuts whenever your ball striking is good, I guess.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT