BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 27, 2018
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  36-hole solo leader,54-hole co-leader, what's your level of disappointment right now?  
RORY McILROY: Yeah, just disappointed I didn't play better over the weekend.  I was in a great position after two days, and struggled yesterday and sort of struggled today again, as well.  Just couldn't get it going.  You know, I let Francesco get a few shots ahead on me and I just couldn't claw that back.   
Played some good golf coming down the back nine.  Hit some better shots but I need to work on a few things going forward.   
 Q.  So you need to work on some things, what specifically will you focus on going forward?  
RORY McILROY: Just the same things.  It's tough, I was saying the couple of shots that got me yesterday I missed to the right and then today the shots that cost me were missing left.  When you have the two sides of the golf course in play, it's a little difficult.  If you could just take one side out of play, then at least you know what your miss is and you can sort of play against that.   
But when you're missing shots left and right, it becomes a little more difficult.  Just a few more hours on the range and try to get ready for next week.   
 Q.  Two months ago, we watched you take apart Bay Hill in a final round 64, how close or far away does that kind of golf feel right now?  
RORY McILROY: It's close, it's very close.  I've given myself a great chance here this week.  I didn't quite pull it off but it's not far away.  I get a bit down on myself because my expectations are high, and with a 36-hole lead, I should have closed it out this week.   
But that's not taking anything away from Francesco.  He played a great weekend and bogey-free around here is some playing.  You know, he deserved the win.  I just need to do a little bit more work, and looking forward to getting right back at it at Memorial next week.   
 Q.  Obviously very disappointing, but what's the difference between this weekend and Thursday and Friday?  
RORY McILROY: I don't know.  I think as a tournament goes on, you're not spending as much time on the range because you're into play mode.  Maybe just got away from the few of the things I was working on at the start of the week, which is the way, when you get under pressure and you're forced to hit shots out on the golf course, you revert back to what you've been doing.  Yeah, there was a bit of that.   
I felt like I hit better shots coming down the stretch this afternoon.  I didn't get off to a good enough start and Francesco was three or four ahead of me after nine holes and it's hard to claw that back whenever he's playing the way he was.   
 Q.  How will you kind of examine this when you look back on it, because you were 12-under after two days and you needed a 6-under par weekend to win.  What do you take from this and the way that those changes that you made in Florida with Michael haven't really held up for four days?  
RORY McILROY: Yeah, but at least it's better plan THE PLAYERS, my last outing, so that's better.  At least there's an improvement.   
Yeah, look, it's disappointing.  I put myself in a position and I didn't get the job done.  As I said, I'll go to Memorial next week and try to put myself in another position to win and see if I can get the job done there.   
 Q.  You felt a little bit Friday night, despite your scores, you feared this weekend could happened.  You didn't seem entirely --  
RORY McILROY: I think when you're working through a bit of a swing change or a swing tweak, it takes more than a week's work to try to bed it in, and this is my first competitive start since trying to rectify things.   
It's not a bad week.  I got off to a great start.  I gave myself a nice cushion after 36, but yeah, there's still enough loose shots in that first 36 holes to know that, okay, it's not quite there, but I could have maybe held it together a bit better over the final couple days but look, I held in there.  I scrambled well.  I hung in tough.  I shot a couple under par rounds at the weekend and just wasn't good enough.   
 Q.  Feel it's still all open if you got the eagle putt?  
RORY McILROY: Oh, yeah, he's got a 6-footer to win then, and it looked like he was cruising, so if that had of went in at the last, I thought, you know, I had a real chance.  Somewhat happy he held that one at the last so I didn't feel as bad leaving it short.  But it would have been nice to put a bit of pressure on him and make him feeling something over that final putt.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT