BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
August 28, 2020
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Just general summation of the round?
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, it was really good.  I got off to a nice start.  A couple under through 4, 3-under through 10, sort of cruising, and then as it got later in the day, the golf course definitely became a little firmer, a little tougher.  The wind got up a little bit.  A little disappointed to drop those shots on the way in, but I think if you shoot anything under par on this golf course, you've got to be pretty pleased.
Q. How difficult is it, and can it get any tougher on the weekend?
RORY McILROY:   I think so.  I mean, I think we're supposed to get a little bit of rain tonight, but I don't think enough to really soften it.  Yeah, look, I think you'll see over the weekend guys will go off early, be able to shoot some decent scores, and then as the day goes on and the later tee times get out there, it'll just get progressively harder as the day goes on.  I think something like remember THE PLAYERS Championship when it was back in May, guys would go out on a Sunday, six or seven back, shoot a 66 and they'd hang around the clubhouse all day and wait and see what happens to the guys on the way in.  I think you might see something similar to that this weekend.
Q. What were you happiest with today?
RORY McILROY:   I've driven the ball much better over the last couple of days, so that's been -- that's a huge key to my game.  If I can drive the ball well, everything seems a bit easier from there.  And I felt a bit better with the putter.  I put my old putter back in the bag.  I felt a little more comfortable over the sort of inside-10-feet range, so that felt better.  But overall everything was pretty good.  I think I finished like seventh or eighth in approach last week in Boston and obviously finished way down -- so my iron play and my wedge play has been pretty good the last few weeks, it's just about putting the ball in the fairway so I can take advantage of how well I'm hitting my irons and my wedges.
Q. You spoke last week honestly about needing that spark.  Is the test kind of what you needed to get back into it?
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I think the test is what's helped me focus and concentrate because if you lose focus out there for one second -- I mean, I sort of did it today on the 14th hole.  I went left of the pin that I shouldn't have, and I was pretty lucky to just get away with a 5.  I played a really good third shot.  But just one lapse in concentration can really cost you around here.
I think one of the big keys this week is just not making big numbers.  I've been making big numbers for the last few weeks, so to just -- if you hit it out of position, get it back in position, make sure that your worst score is a bogey and move on.  Honestly bogeys aren't that bad out here.
Q. Also I think I heard you say earlier this week that the way your game is right now it's as easy for you to shoot even par out here as it is last week.  How is that possible?
RORY McILROY:   Maybe I'm just so used to shooting it, I don't know.  It's just more -- I don't know.  I don't know, honestly.  It's sort of been scrappy the last few weeks and I've been scrapping it around and trying to get it -- just trying to get it around.  I don't think my game is -- it's okay.  It's not as good as it can be, but I guess I'm just sort of used to missing a few fairways, missing a few greens, but taking advantage of the good stuff but sort of -- I don't know.  I think this golf course has helped me just focus and produce better golf shots and think better and concentrate.  Honestly I think it's what I needed.
Q. How many shots harder do you think it is per round than last week?
RORY McILROY:   I'd say six shots harder probably, something like that.
Q. Can you explain what led to the putter switch today?
RORY McILROY:   I yipped one on 13 yesterday, so that -- that was basically it.  It wasn't a yip, but it was a tentative, very -- just not a good stroke, and sometimes with the blade I get a little indecisive or a little unsure of my aim and then during the stroke -- especially you get one of these little slippy left-to-righters; at the last minute, don't miss it right, and then you put the right hand into it.  I actually putted okay after that and holed some good ones coming in, but I just didn't feel comfortable, so going back to something that I've putted well with, and I've had it here with -- I've traveled with it the last few weeks.  Obviously the blade went back in the bag last week but I still had the Spider with me, but I just thought after yesterday and how dicey the greens are, something where you're just a little more sure over it is better.
Q. USGA has always kind of struggled to find a good Midwestern venue.  Could this be the one?
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I think it -- I didn't play the U.S. Open in '03, but I think that went pretty well.  I think what they could do is hire the Western Golf Association to set their courses up.  But yeah, this is a great -- this would be a wonderful test for a U.S. Open.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT