WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 22, 2018
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Rory, I guess it was a little bit backs to the wall today in the circumstances.  You must be delighted to have come through that?
RORY McILROY: Yeah, it was nice.  I really didn't play much differently than I did yesterday, just made a couple of last mistakes.  I made all my mistakes on the front nine and let him get a few up on me and it was hard to come back.
It's tricky out there.  You have to control your ball flight.  The wind is up.  And I shot 3-under for 17 holes today, so that was good.  And Brian Harman did me a favor by beating Peter.  It's all to play for tomorrow.
Q. It's right back into your hands now?
RORY McILROY: It is.  Obviously I need to win tomorrow and that will at least get me into a playoff to try to get through, obviously depending on how Peter and Jhonny's match goes.  At least sort of brought things back into my own hands, which is nice.  I didn't want to have to rely on that.  But that's the beauty of this group play.  Some years it works in your favor, like this year, and some years it doesn't, like last.  I played a match on Friday that was basically meaningless.  It's nice to still have something to play for tomorrow.
Q. How much adjustment is a week like this, particularly after coming off such a fabulous win on the Sunday before?
RORY McILROY: It's definitely different.  The format is different.  Starting a day early, I was saying over there, that was a little -- felt, even when I woke up yesterday morning, I just didn't feel quite 100 percent.  I'm not making an excuse in any way.
Q. Is that kind of a hangover?
RORY McILROY: A little.  It was just more -- usually you win on Sunday and you're not teeing it back up again until Thursday, so you have the extra day to rest and prepare.  And I didn't quite have that.  So I can't -- I came out of the gates a little flat yesterday.  Was able to produce some good golf when I needed to.  It wasn't quite enough.  But I felt better today.  I'm happy I got the win, and I've got a lot to play for tomorrow.
Q. One final question, with the Masters in mind, how valuable would it be to go deep into the weekend in your last competitive outing before Augusta?
RORY McILROY: It would be great.  I've always loved the match play.  I like the format, whether it's the group stages, whether it's pure knock off.  I've always enjoyed it.  And it would be great to play the weekend here and get a run.  I can't really think of that right now, I just need to think about beating Brian Harman tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT