MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 3, 2018
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: Good afternoon. Welcome to the Masters for your 10th appearance, Rory. The you're healthy, you're fit, you're just coming off a big win. Tell us about your mindset coming into this week.   
RORY MCILROY: Yeah, I'm excited. Doesn't feel like it is my 10th Masters, that's for sure. It's went very quickly. But excited to be back here. It's the‑‑ this has sort of become the real start of the golf season for the casual golf fan, but obviously we have been playing quite a bit before this, but it's really when all the eyes of the world are on our game for this week.   
And I feel like I'm coming in here in great form and excited to have another chance to try and win this great tournament. So excited for the week. Feel like I couldn't come in here with better form. It was great to get a win a couple of weeks ago, and hopefully I can just carry that golf forward for the next few days.  
THE MODERATOR: You were here last week with some friends, you stayed on property and played. Tell us a little bit more about your preparation.   
RORY MCILROY: Yeah, I've been very fortunate to come up here a couple of times with members over the past five or six weeks, and I've played a lot of holes. I played 54 holes on Wednesday and Thursday last week. I played 36 a couple of weeks before that. So this is my 10th Masters, so I know the golf course pretty well. But I'm very comfortable. There's a couple little tweaks here and there that they make every year. And it's been nice. Any time you come up to Augusta and it's not the week of the tournament, it's a real treat. It's nice to stay on property and do all that.  
So, yeah, I feel as prepared as I ever have, and just excited to hit that first tee shot on Thursday afternoon.   
THE MODERATOR: One more question. Your putting seems to be free and confident at Bay Hill. Is that a change you made?   
RORY MCILROY: Yeah, a little bit. Just thinking less about it, not trying as hard, being a little more instinctive and reactive. And that's something you need to do very well on these greens at Augusta.   
So, yeah, I feel like I found something with my putting over the past few weeks, and in good time, because obviously you need to putt these greens very well, and I feel as good as I have with the putter for quite a while. So if you can be comfortable on these greens, you can be comfortable on any greens. And I'm looking forward to see what the week holds.   
THE MODERATOR: Excellent. Open it up for questions.   
   
 Q. Curious, the feeling of coming back here as the fourth best scoring average in the history of this tournament, but no jacket. Does that tell you something about how difficult it is to just win this thing and separate from that? What is it that you need to tweak to get to that next level do you think?  
RORY MCILROY: Yeah, I didn't know that that was my scoring average, but, yeah, I play well here, I just haven't played well enough. I haven't gotten myself‑‑ that one year back in 2011 where I had a great chance and I didn't finish it off, but I've played well since then. I love the golf course, I enjoy playing the golf course. Maybe I've got off to a couple of slow starts over the past few years, and I played my last 45 holes in 2015 in 15‑under par. So it was just that slow start that held me back there, and if I get off to a bit of a better start, then maybe I'll be right there in contention.   
But it's nice to know that I played the golf course just about as well as anyone, and hopefully this is my week and I can get myself in there and grab it with both hands.   
   
 Q. The golf world is abuzz about Tiger and Phil playing a practice round this morning. What are your thoughts on that, and was there ever a time in Ryder Cups where Team Europe felt like they had an advantage because America's a house divided, its top two stars allegedly don't get along?  
RORY MCILROY: That's funny, I walked past Tiger on the range just there before he came in and spoke to you guys, and I said, I never thought I would see the day, Tiger and Phil playing a practice round at Augusta. So we had a bit of a laugh about that. But as he said, I think both Tiger and Phil have started to take the team stuff a lot more seriously as they have progressed in their careers, and they have obviously become very close. I don't know what happens behind the closed doors of the UnitedStates team rooms, but they have grown a lot closer. And it's great to see two of the top stars of our game for a long time.   
And, yeah, the only time I wasn't a part of the Ryder Cup, but whenever Hal Sutton put Tiger and Phil together at Oakland Hills back in '04, I thought that was probably‑‑ you would think that you would keep your two best players apart and have them with other people. So I think Europe were probably licking their lips when they saw that pairing.   
But the UnitedStates team has become a lot more cohesive, and these younger guys that have come in. And I think that's what's really needed, the bond. And as I said, Tiger and Phil seem like they have got a great relationship now, and it's great to see.   
   
 Q. You expressed your concern about fan decorum on the PGA TOUR. When you come to Augusta, how much do you look forward to especially now not a hundred cell phones up and you're not going to hear dilly dilly? Hopefully not.  
RORY MCILROY: Hopefully not. Well, look, this golf tournament, this golf club, they do it right. You have to respect the traditions of the game. And, look, I keep saying I'm all for people having a good time. That is what will bring more people into our game and into our sport. But sometimes you just have to remember that it's not quite a football match or a whatever.   
But, look, it's not that ‑‑ dilly dilly, fine with me. I don't mind that. It's more when the comments get a little personal and they start to root against you and all that stuff. But it happens very, very rarely.   
But it's nice here. It's just it's the perfect golf tournament. Everything's just ran so well, everything's done the right way, and it's a privilege to play in front of the patrons this week.   
   
 Q. What is the difference, though, in the feeling withinside the ropes about what you're going to get from the fans, because you have a very kind of knowledgeable fan base here? What's the feeling like about how different it's going to be?  
RORY MCILROY: I just think that everyone on property or everyone's just so appreciative that they're inside the grounds and they're here. It's a‑‑ for some people it's a once‑in‑a‑lifetime experience to be on the grounds at Augusta National and watch arguably the greatest golf tournament in the world.   
So I think that's‑‑ people are just so appreciative to be here and they respect that, and the players certainly appreciate that as well.   
   
 Q. You've set your stall out for this Masters with the schedule that you've had, you've been fit enough to be able to complete that. Is this the best prepared you've ever been for a Masters, and was it 90 holes of practice here? Is that the most that you've done ahead of a Masters tournament?  
RORY MCILROY: Yeah, it might be. This is ‑‑ I had planned to play a heavy schedule last year heading into this tournament, and injuries sort of set me back. And this is my ninth start this year. So I got‑‑ I'm eight tournaments in, and of those eight tournaments I've had three Top‑3s, one win, and I've played well. There's been really good stretches of golf there. So I know that that all is right there.   
Then to be able to come up here and play quite a bit of golf before this week and really get comfortable with the golf course, I always try to be as well prepared as I possibly can be for each and every golf tournament I play, but this week I feel like everything's coming together very nicely, and hopefully all of the good things that I've seen in my competitive play and my practice and my preparation hopefully I can put all of that to good work over the next few days.   
   
 Q. Justin was just in here talking about your goal of trying to get the career Grand Slam, and he said that maybe sometimes he feels like the press and the fans might make a bigger deal of it than the players do. Do you agree with that, and is it really just a question of you can only want something so much?  
RORY MCILROY: Yeah, I think so. Whether it's‑‑ there's all these little sub‑goals that‑‑ not saying they don't mean anything, but, for example, world No. 1 or these titles of being able to complete the slam or all this stuff, it's a byproduct of playing good golf and of winning golf tournaments.   
I think if you try to break it down to that, where it'syou just‑‑ it's hard to treat every week the same because every week isn't the same, and obviously we don't sit in media centers like this every week and we don't ‑‑ you know, it's all‑‑ it's different. But I think you have to embrace that. You have to embrace and relish the opportunity that is put in front of you and go out and grab it.   
So I'm an avid fan of the history of the game, and I know a win here and what that would mean and where that would put me in history alongside some of the greatest that have ever played this game, and that would be mean an awful lot to me. But have I to try and clear my head of that come Thursday morning and go out and play good golf, hit good golf shots, have good course management, hole putts. If you do that enough times, hopefully that score on Sunday evening's the lowest out of all 87 or 88 competitors that are here and you walk away with something that you'll have for the rest of your life.   
   
 Q. Curious, as you're coming in this, to this tournament this year, it's been an unbelievable start to the season, the calendar season. People are talking, Phil winning, Tiger coming back, Bubba winning twice, your winning at Bay Hill with such a fashion, playing as well as you just described it. Is it possible to feel a little bit under the radar with all this stuff going on right now and the buzz and excitement over so many aspects of golf? Does that make it a little bit easier? Do you feel things are a little bit quieter for you than they have been in the past for you coming in?  
RORY MCILROY: Yeah, definitely coming into the 2015 Masters, that's when I felt like there was a lot of hype coming off the two Majors the summer before and world No. 1 and going for the slam the first time. I felt that anticipation and that hype, and I nearly built it up in my head a little bit too much. So, yeah, I think that golf is in such a healthy place right now with all the guys that you mentioned, I'm happy to be a part that have conversation.   
But, yeah, I don't feel like I'm under any sort of radar. I come here with one goal, and that is to win the Tournament. And I'm sure everyone that's playing this tournament has the same goals and objectives. And that's all I'm trying to do. So if I'm under the radar or not, it doesn't matter. I just need to go out and play good golf.   
   
 Q. You just mentioned maybe getting the hype‑‑ letting it get to you a little bit in 2015. Do you think you've ever kind of gotten in your own way here, whether it's expectation or pressure or just desire, and do you feel like you're maybe more comfortable this year than you have been in a long time coming here?  
RORY MCILROY: Yeah, I do believe I'm more comfortable, and I think there's a few reasons for that. My game is in good shape and I'm confident in it. So that's one thing.   
But I think just being ‑‑ sometimes I feel like I've given this golf course a little too much respect, and that goes back to the‑‑ back to what I was saying about being a slow starter. Sometimes you plod away and you make your pars and think you're doing okay, but you look at the board and you might be seven or eight back, someone's got off to a hot start.   
So you got to remember, last year I shot 72 in that real windy first day, and Charley Hoffman had shot 65. I thought I played pretty well, but all of a sudden you're seven back with three rounds to go. So you don't want to put too much pressure on yourself to start off fast, but you want to be there or thereabouts after the first couple of days.   
So I have gotten in my way here before, but I think because I'm a little more comfortable on the golf course and comfortable in my game, I don't think that will happen this week.   
   
 Q. Do you feel that you've served your time at this stage now, this is your 10th Masters appearance, as you've mentioned, and the likes of Sam Snead and Ben Hogan, they won on their 10th appearance here at the Masters. Do numbers like that kind of tick a box for you? Do you feel good about that?  
RORY MCILROY: Yeah, I mean, there's loads of different numbers you could throw around. As you said, Hogan and Snead on their 10th go. Arnold won his first Masters at 28. There's a lot of different comparisons you could make. But it's all really meaningless unless you go out there and actually do it.   
So, but I feel like I've been here long enough and I've played enough rounds around here to know how to play this golf course well and well enough to win. I never come in here thinking I've served my time and this is my‑‑ this is my turn and‑‑ because it's never your turn. You have to go out and get it. It's not going to ‑‑ I said this in an interview a few weeks ago, it's not going to fall into your lap, you have to go out and win the Masters and you have to go and earn it. And I'm here this week to earn it all.   
   
 Q. I know players get defined by their major wins and the wins that they have had. How much of the 2011 Masters, what kind of importance do you place to that heartbreak that you had had?  
RORY MCILROY: I place a lot of importance on what happened here in 2011. I feel like it made me a better player, I feel like it made me a better person, it definitely was a character builder. And it took me a while to get over it, but I knew if I looked at the big picture it would serve me well in the long run. And I don't think I would have had the career I've had so far if it wasn't for that day. So I think it was very important.   
I think you have to‑‑ any experience like that is a learning experience, and I learned a lot from it and I've been able to put the wrongs right that happened that afternoon. I just‑‑ since then I haven't really gotten myself in that position where I've had that chance again at this golf course. So hopefully this is the year where all the things that I've learned over the years from that experience I can put into practice on Sunday afternoon.   
   
 Q. You're the only Irishman in the field this week. First time that's happened in a Major in a long time. Do you feel any more pressure that you've got all the home hopes on your shoulders?  
RORY MCILROY: No, not necessarily. It would be nice to have a few of the other guys here, Padraig or Graeme or Paul Dunne or whoever it is, but it's a limited field and it's‑‑ I think that's why it's so special to be in the Masters field, is because it's a very‑‑ it's the toughest tournament to qualify for. And hopefully next year we don't have‑‑ I don't have to answer that question, there can be a few of us here and we can all share the stage. But no, I don't feel like there's any more pressure on my shoulders because of that.   
   
 Q. Have you had any additional consultation with Brad Faxon? And secondly, would you characterize yourself as a streaky putter?  
RORY MCILROY: Brad and I played nine holes on Saturday down in Florida. But that was really‑‑ it was just a casual nine holes. And, yeah, we talked a little bit and had a chat, but that's really it.   
We stay in touch, and it's more of a mindset thing rather than anything else. I feel like I'm sort of speaking to Bob Rotella through him a little bit because how psychological it is, but, yeah, that's really all we have done.   
I don't like the word "streaky." I feel‑‑ I think you have to be better than a streaky putter to have had the career that I've had. So, I mean, there's been times where I putted better than other times, but I think you ask every player in the field, they would tell you the same thing.   
   
 Q. It sounds as if you're trying to reset here, and in that mode is it almost an added help to have Harry on the bag where he's seeing this all for the first time, he hasn't lived any of the past here with you, except as a friend, of course.   
RORY MCILROY: Yeah, yeah, he watched from outside the ropes in 2011 and on that Sunday afternoon. So, but, yeah, it is a fresh start. I felt like 2018 was a fresh start for me for a lot of reasons. I was just getting my health back, and it was, I had 10 years on TOUR as a pro, and you feel like this isthe second 10 years and it was sort of a clean slate and start again.   
So to have Harry on the bag, I'm looking forward to it. I'm looking forward to being out there with him. We had the opportunity to play here last week. He was right there and got to see the golf course as a player, and so I think he appreciates that a little bit more. I think that was a really beneficial thing to do for him, to get the clubs out and play a little bit last week here too.   
So we feel like we have got a good game plan. And if your best friend or best mate growing up can't keep you relaxed out there, no one can. So I'm looking forward to it.   
   
 Q. Is it reasonable that so many people are here thinking Tiger Woods can win this Masters? And if so, why is that fair as someone‑‑ you've seen more of his comeback than any of us?  
RORY MCILROY: Yeah, he's got a great chance. Look at how he's played the last few weeks. He's had four wins here. I mean, was it 2010 he hadn't played in a few months and this was his first start back and finished fourth. He's very comfortable around this golf course, and his game is right there. I watched a little bit of his press conference before I came in here and talking about how he's got his speed back, and it's a big golf course, and it might be even longer during the week with the rain that's forecasted.   
And for him to be able to get around this place without any fears of being‑‑ it being too long or not having enough speed, yeah, anytime Tiger Woods is healthy and in this sort of form, he's dangerous at any golf tournament. But given his history here, I think even more so.   
   
 Q. Have you ever been here before when so many of the top players have been playing so well, and is it slightly galling that as you hit form, about 10 other people have hit form as well?  
RORY MCILROY: Yeah, no, I mean, look, as I said, golf is in such a healthy place, when you look and you look down the world rankings and you see the guys that are up there and the likes of Bubba Watson, Phil, Tiger Woods, Justin Thomas, Jordan Spieth, everyone is playing well, they're great players, and you have to ‑‑ I mean, no matter what, at Augusta it doesn't matter if it's an in‑form player or not, I mean, you look at ‑‑ I watched a rerun last night of the 2013 Masters when Adam won and he had Cabrera up there, and Cabrera's another one where he might not be in the best form but he loves this golf course so much that he can get right in there and in the mix.   
So you're going to have to beat someone that's playing well. There's a lot of people playing well, and it just means you have to play a little bit better. But it's great for the Tournament. It's great for the excitement for the overall game. And as a fan of golf myself, it's‑‑ I think golf is in a great place right now.   
   
 Q. On your thought about getting stronger through heartache, I remember last year on Sunday, I guess, as you were leaving here you made a point to tweet to encourage Sergio. And what did that mean to you to see that it meant so much to him?  
RORY MCILROY: Yeah, I mean, it's ‑‑ I think with Sergio when he came out on TOUR in 1999 or '98, and Tiger and him had that go at Medinah, everyone thought that this is guy who is going to win a handful of Majors easily, and it didn't quite transpire that way. So to see him not struggle, he had a great career, if he had won the Masters or not, but for‑‑ to see all that, the heartbreaks and the‑‑ he wears his emotions on his sleeve or his heart on his sleeve, and just that moment was really special.   
And it was tough because I'm very close with Justin Rose as well, and Justin obviously has had a great career and won his Major and won an Olympic gold, and it was just Sergio I felt like it was‑‑ he deserved it. And Justin deserved it too, but it was a great moment.   
And I made a point to go up to Sergio this week and tell him to enjoy tonight and the Champion's Dinner and hosting that and it's a great privilege to be able to do that, and hopefully I get to do it one day. But right now this is Sergio's moment, and I'm really happy for him.   
   
 Q. Talk about how you came to that sort of conclusion that you maybe hadn't been aggressive enough here. Was that consulting with anyone else, was it just in looking back at your week after last year's Masters? How did you come to that conclusion?  
RORY MCILROY: You always sort of try to dissect what you've done the week before, and whether it's just looking at some statistics, or I just have never been close enough to the lead going into the last day to feel like I've got a real chance after that chance I had in 2011, and that's me being too comfortable with missing chances and not taking my opportunities when they come around. Even you might hit two great shots into 11 and miss the putt, but you walk away with a four thinking that's still okay, but at the end of the day you had a realistic chance for birdie on a hole where you could gain a shot and a half on the field.   
So I think just being that little more aggressive and that little more efficient, I guess is the word I'm looking for, if you can score very efficiently around here‑‑ and you look at Jordan Spieth made 28 birdies around this place in 2015. Not every year is going to be as benign as 2015, but there's scores out there. I just have to keep reminding myself of that when a tournament starts.   
   
 Q. China's Li Haotong, after his performance at the U.S. Open last year, what he did against you in the desert earlier this year, would you mind discussing the quality and the potential you saw in him and his game there?  
RORY MCILROY: Yeah, Haotong is a‑‑ he is very different than what you would imagine him to be. I mean, he's very fun‑loving and sort of carefree and very funny. I enjoyed my couple of days with him in Dubai earlier this year, even though he got the better of me. But he's a great talent. He's still very young, but he's a great player for such a young age. And I'm sure he'll be around for a long time. And if that boosts the image of golf in China as well and gets more kids over there to play, then that's fantastic.   
But it's great that he's in the field this week. And I had a good battle with him in Dubai, as you said, and if we go up against it or go up against each other this week, hopefully I just get the better of him.   
THE MODERATOR: Thanks very much, Rory. Have a great week, and I hope we see a lot of you down here.   
RORY MCILROY: Thank you. Thank you.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT