ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 15, 2018
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 17 holes of beautiful golf.
RORY MCILROY: Yeah, and one bad swing at the end.  The tee shot, did exactly what I wanted to with the first one, just trying to hit it up the left side and bring it back and just double crossed it.
Q. Can you amplify on when you said that you missed the cut last week, but there are benefits to missing a cut?
RORY MCILROY: Yeah.
Q. Were you what were you able to work on the last week because of that?
RORY MCILROY: Everything.  A little bit on my swing.  I never really like to work on my swing whenever I'm at tournaments because you're trying to just play golf and get the ball where you're looking instead of worrying about how you're doing it.  So it was nice to be able to work on my swing for a couple of days.  Messed around a little bit on the putting green and just sort of tried to get a little more instinctive and reactive on the greens.  And that's helped a little bit going back to a couple of feels that I've had before.  But, yeah, just give me a little bit of extra time to work on some stuff and came into this week feeling much better about my game than I was going into Tampa last week, so and you saw some of it out there.  It was much better than the golf that I've been able to produce the last couple weeks.
Q. What do you take from the fact that through the first 17 holes you were 5-under with only one birdie on a par-5.
RORY MCILROY: Yeah, I need to play the par-5s better.  This is a golf course where you need to play the par-3s well and play the par-5s well and to be only 1-under on the par-5s is, I need to do that better.  So I guess with shooting what I shot today and only being that, it's not a, it's not disastrous.  But yeah, I need to take advantage of the par-5s, because that's -- look at Tiger's won it plenty of times around here and that's what he did, he can be conservative and play conservative for the most part, but if you make birdies on the par-5s, you're going to be right up there.
Q. And he did, he birdied every par-5 today.
RORY MCILROY: Yeah, that's what, you look at the history of how he's done well at this event and he's killed the par-5s and played really conservatively and within his comfort zone the rest of the way and that obviously has done him pretty well.
Q. You talked about getting more instinctive with your putting.  This sounds counter intuitive, but are there drills that you can use or is it more a matter of --
RORY MCILROY: A little bit, yeah, I mean just more, just playing around with it.  Seeing balls go in in the front edge, seeing balls, trying to hit them in the left edge, the right edge, hit them off the back of the cup.  Just trying to get a little bit more feel into it and a little more flow.  So just sort of messed around a little bit on the greens over the weekend, just trying to do that.
Q. And you went to south Florida after?
RORY MCILROY: Yeah, I did.
Q. Do you know after every shot what you were doing?  Do you have like feedback straight away?
RORY MCILROY: Yeah, yeah, pretty much.  Pretty much.  Basically I knew at the top of the back swing that 3-wood on the last was going left.  But, yeah, I know.  I know straight away.  I've hit enough golf balls in my life.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT