WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 22, 2018
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
RORY McILROY: I played well.  I think I was two or 3-under from my match yesterday.  So it wasn't as if the scoring was any different.  I didn't make the mistakes early and let my opponent get up early.  That was main difference.   
 Q.  You said were close all along when you left Tampa.  You seemed to have turned it around, does it surprise you at all?  
RORY McILROY: I have done it before.  I have done it before where it's looked as if I was far away and I wasn't really.  The spring of 2012, I missed four out of five cuts going into The Open Championship in the summer.  I think I finished 60th at The Open.  Then I finished 5th at Akron.  I went on and won a second major, I won two FedExCup events, played well in the Ryder Cup.   
Again, I think with the way I play, and how I am as person, I'm never too far away either side.  I'm never too far away from playing great.  On the flip side, I'm never too far away from struggling.  It's more of a mindset thing and that's been the pattern of my career over the past ten years.  I'm conscious that -- it's always great because I have the belief in myself that I'm able to flip it around very quickly.   
On the flip side, I know that I have to work just as hard to keep it that way.  The game can so easily go the other way.   
 Q.  You have had a hectic schedule before Augusta.  
RORY McILROY: I will probably play a good 54 to 72 holes at Augusta on Wednesday and Thursday next week.  If I do get deep in this tournament, I love it.  I probably put the clubs away, Monday, Tuesday next week, just have a couple of full rest days.  Actually, I know I've got a few house things that Erica has organized on Tuesday, so definitely have the clubs away then.   
Yeah, I will put the clubs away for a couple of days, go up to Augusta and then do a little bit of practice over the weekend.  Make sure everything is sharp going up there.   
 Q.  Is it nice having the destiny in your own hands as opposed to what happened yesterday?  
RORY McILROY: It's nice.  I don't need to look at what's happening tomorrow with Peter and Johnny.  If Peter wins and I win, I'll play him a playoff, I guess, and try to advance.  I just know that if I win tomorrow, I'm staying here a little bit longer.  Hopefully things work out that way.   
 Q.  One of complaints that I have heard about this format is it creates meaningless matches on Friday.  I think it has been your situation before.  
RORY McILROY: Last year.   
 Q.  What is it like before playing a match like that?  Do you agree with an argument that it's inherently meaningless?  
RORY McILROY: I definitely agree with that.  Knowing that you are playing a match that you might get two more FedEx points and $20,000 or whatever it is.  It's tough.  It's hard.  You try to go out with the mindset that I'm going to maybe try things or if you are working on your golf swing, it's a good round to take advantage of trying different things, bits and pieces.  That's the tough part about it.  There's going to be guys going out there tomorrow that would really just want to be on a plane tonight going home.   
 Q.  Is there something that makes it different about match play on a Friday versus being 70th place on Sunday in a stroke play event?  
RORY McILROY: Yeah, because at least in a stroke play event you can go out and shoot 62, 63.  And you move up 50 spots and all of a sudden it's a Top 20 and you feel good about yourself.  Here it's not quite the same.   
 Q.  On that golf course, the range the last couple of days, are you more relaxed?  
RORY McILROY: I'm more relaxed because I know my game is there.  I have got a lot of great shots to fall back on, the good swings that I have made, putts that I have held.  So yeah I do feel better.   
 Q.  What happened with the victory on 17, was there a turning point in the match for you?  
RORY McILROY: Probably the putt on 11.  Up-and-down I made on 11 to stay 2-up.  That was a big putt.  Because I don't know it seemed like the difference between 2-up with 7 to play instead of 1-up with those 12, 13, those tricky holes coming in with the water.  The putt on 11 was big.   
 Q.  A little off topic.  Is heckling getting to be a problem, do you think?  
RORY McILROY: Like, it's hard because what is too much?  If they are not shot shouting in your back swing then it's okay.  So yeah, it all depends.  I made my comments last week on St. Patrick's Day when everyone was just a few too many deep.  I don't know, I'm all for people coming out here, having a good time.  I don't know.  It depends.   
I think what happened to Justin Thomas at the Honda, that went over the line.  I think that was too much.  Because that's not -- it's golf at the end of the day.  It's not football.  There's decorum, there's etiquette, there's a lot of that that goes on in golf.  Not that it doesn't go on in football, when you are on the field you can't hear all that stuff.  We're a little thin rope that divides the fans from us, you can still hear what they are saying.   
 Q.  I know you separated -- the two tee times are separated a little bit.  Do you have any interest in the Jordan Spieth --  
RORY McILROY: I have a lot of interest in that.  What time are they playing?   
 Q.  In the afternoon, 1:30.  
RORY McILROY: Hopefully I get done early, I can watch it.  Penalty drops everywhere..   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT