THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 23, 2020
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. What was your assessment of the week?
RORY McILROY:   The same.  I said in there, like if you need anyone to shoot even to 2-under for a week, I'm your man.  That's sort of what I've done the last few weeks.  So anything around even par, I'm good.
Just the same stuff.  Everything is just a little off.  I haven't driven the ball the way I usually do, which puts me out of position.  My driver cost me a few shots this week.  Actually felt like my iron play and my wedges were really good, which is -- you know, which is a positive, if I can take a positive from this week.
But yeah, just sort of more of the same.  Just not quite there.
Q. Do you think it's a product of how you're playing or your position, and if you're out of contention it may be harder to dial in?
RORY McILROY:   I think a bit of both.  I think there is partly the fact that I'm not getting myself into positions to contend, but also, it's hard, like I'll go a few holes and hit some good shots, and then one hole, I'll hit one way right, way left, and I'm sort of like where -- where did that come from.
And then that affects the shots that you hit from there on in.  Yeah, it's just been a bit of a struggle.
Q. Is it more difficult in these times to work on your swing knowing that Michael can't be with you?
RORY McILROY:   He came over the week before Memorial and he did some good work.  We're sending videos and stuff, but it's hard when you can't see the ball flight.
Again, like I hit it pretty good in practice, and you know, it's a matter of getting it to translate out there, and sometimes it does and I'll hit some good shots.  Last few shots I hit in there, the 6-iron on 16, the two shots into 17, two shots into the last, they are good golf shots.  Yeah, it's just the driver's cost me this week.  I was missing it left yesterday.  I was missing it right today.  It's just sort of, yeah, just not quite there.
Q. Can you fix it the next three days?
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, going to try a couple of drivers at home.  Going to fly home and come back up to Chicago on Tuesday and see if I can figure it out.
Q. See a golf course you've never seen in your life?
RORY McILROY:   Yes.
Q. Not trying to make excuses for you by any means, but something Graeme said early in the week stuck with me, he said, I feel like a golfing zombie right now, got no soul.  It's the same atmosphere week-after-week, and he needs the drug you get at The Ryder Cup or U.S. Open.  Do you feel like you fit into that CATEGORY?
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, this is going to sound really bad, but I feel like the last few weeks, I've just been going through the motions.  I want to get an intensity and some sort of fire, but I just haven't been able to.  And look, that's partly to do with the atmosphere and partly to do with how I'm playing.  I'm not inspiring myself and I'm trying to get inspiration from outside sources to get something going.  I can definitely see where Graeme is coming from there.
Q. What's the difference between a birdie and a triple?
RORY McILROY:   Four shots usually.
Q. In terms of just internally.
RORY McILROY:   Honestly, not that much.  It's not that much.  I mean, you sort of -- sometimes I come off a green and make a birdie, and I'm sort of -- you know, you're sort of laughing coming off a hole that you've just messed up, and you make a birdie and it's sort of almost a more negative emotion in some ways.  It's weird.  It's very strange.
Q. Are you that guy that needs that drug?
RORY McILROY:   Yeah.  Yeah.
Q. It's going to be great in the transcript.
RORY McILROY:   I need all the drugs (laughing).
Q. What do you do?
RORY McILROY:   Do you go on YouTube and look at past successes do you give yourself something to sort of think about, a mantra as you go around?  There's different ways to do it.
You know, what's always sort of done well with me is a bet or a game or a play for something.  That sometimes gets something out of me.  Maybe that's the strategy.  I do that in practice rounds sometimes with Harry and we make a lot of bets and I try to shoot scores and try to win dinner, whatever it is.  Maybe that.  We're playing in the FedExCup.  It's not as if, you know, you've got -- there's a lot of incentive here to play well.  It's just trying to get it out of you, yeah.
Q. Do you think there are people who might be nervous energy if this atmosphere helps?
RORY McILROY:   It helps the young guys coming out that maybe haven't dealt with the crowds that you deal with week-to-week.  You know, college guys coming out that aren't really used to it.  They can -- it's no different, right.  It's no different than playing in an NCAAs.  It's the same sort of atmosphere.  Having that familiarity and having it so recent is probably helpful for those guys.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT