OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 28, 2018
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Not the result you were looking for.  Give us your impressions.
RORY McILROY: Yeah, pissed off.  I mean, birdieing 10, going two ahead there with Li making bogey, thought I was obviously in the driver's seat and just a bogey out of nowhere on 11, just a bad 9-iron there.
And then the 3-putt on 13, those were the two key holes of the tournament, really, even though there was a bad tee shot on 16.
But you know, from being two ahead, standing on the 11th tee, to being, you know, level going into 16, I just, yeah, I just, I don't know, it was a couple of bad shots, a couple of poor decisions, a couple of mental errors, a few tentative putts out there, as well.
I kept leaving myself in places where I couldn't really give it a run at the hole because they were downhill, downgrain, downwind.  So I didn't really leave it in the best spots to be aggressive with my putts.
But tried until the very end.  Made two good birdies.  Made him win it in the end, which was, you know, all I could do, and he played very well on the way in, birdieing three of the last four.  I just wish I could get a couple of those holes back.
Q. What was the thought process with the two-shot swing on 10?
RORY McILROY: Not much.  I knew there was a few tough holes coming up on the back nine.  Didn't expect to hit the 9-iron I hit on 11.  It was just one of the poorest shots I've hit all week and didn't really leave myself -- the bunkers here, they are very difficult.  They are very dry and hard to get spin out of.  That was a tough up-and-down.
I guess I was still one ahead after that.  I made a good four on 12.  That was a difficult hole, and then the 3-putt on 13 was tough.  Yeah, so it was just one of those days, it was sort of fighting everything a little bit.  Felt like I played a good front nine.  I scrambled and shot 2-under which was good in the conditions and just should have been better on the back nine.
Q. Were the conditions a factor?
RORY McILROY: Yeah, they were tough.  I thought where some of the pin positions were and where the wind direction was, it was tough to get close to some of them with how firm the greens were.
Yeah, conditions were tougher than they had been the last three days.  I think the scores reflected that.  But you know, again, the conditions didn't really -- wasn't a factor in the bad 9-iron and the 3-putt on 13.
Q. Hard to take right now, but you must take positives when you sit down and reflect on these two weeks.
RORY McILROY: Yeah, definitely.  How I'm feeling right now, if someone had of told me at the start of the year you'd finish third and second your first two events, I'd say, yeah, I'd take that.
But being in the positions I've been in and having two close calls the first couple of weeks of the year, it's a little difficult.  I think I wouldn't -- the competitor in me is very disappointed right now.  I wanted to win.  I always want to win, and I just didn't do enough when I needed to.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT