BRITISH MASTERS SUPPORTED BY SKY SPORTS
September 30, 2017
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How was today?
RORY McILROY: Yeah, I felt today I did get the most out of it.  I scrambled well when I needed to.  Some of these sort of 3- and 4-footers that you leave yourself on these greens are pretty tricky.  They are so soft that there are some heel prints and stuff.  You're just trying to make as committed a stroke as you possibly can and hopefully it goes in.
It was nice.  I gave myself plenty of chances.  I made some.
Q. There were huge galleries following you today?
RORY McILROY: Yeah, it was brilliant.  Obviously we had an early tee time today but there was a lot of people out there and it was nice to have the support and nicer to hit shots like that in front of them, as well.  It was nice to get a reaction like that.
It's been great all week, it really has.  Even when we teed off early on Thursday morning, the amount of people out here was incredible.
Q. Looked like you were more aggressive today.
RORY McILROY: I was a little bit but the course let's you be a little more aggressive today.  The tee is moved up on 9.  You can reach the green on 17.  You've got the two par 5s which are reachable, and it is so soft out there.  I mean, if you hit good shots, you're going to be rewarded, and you're going to leave yourself with a lot of birdie chances.  I expect to be a few behind going into tomorrow but it was a nice score to shoot.
At least I put myself in the position today where if I do hole those putts tomorrow, it might mean something, so that's nice.
Q. Happy with that?
RORY McILROY: Yeah, it was nice.  Nice to get out there this morning, and obviously the conditions are perfect for going low, and I was giving myself plenty of chances.  It was nice to see a few putts drop.  64 was good.  I think I'll need something similar tomorrow if I want to have a chance.  But it was good to see a low one.  I haven't shot a low score like that in a while, so it was nice to see.
Q. What were the high points?
RORY McILROY: Yeah, chip-in at 5 was big.  I think just getting off to a good start.  I had not really got off to a good start the last couple of days, so to be, what was I, 3-under through six, it was nice to get off to a start like that.  There's holes out here that if you make par, you're happy enough, and there's holes that you need to make your birdies on.  The par 5s, obviously, the two -- 17, the reachable par 4 but then they moved the tee up for us on 9, which again was reachable.  So you have to make your birdies there and picked off another couple.  It was a good run.
Q. Coming from the States, is it taking time to acclimatize to conditions?
RORY McILROY: Yeah, it's not quite 90 degrees like I was practicing in last weekend.  The air is heavier and the ball doesn't go quite as far.  Just to adjust to that as the week goes on.  You know your numbers and how far you're hitting each club.  Pretty comfortable in the conditions by now.
Q. What's the game plan tomorrow?
RORY McILROY: I would expect to be at least four or five behind going into tomorrow.  It is very scorable out there.  You know, if I'm not that far behind, then that's a bit of a bonus.  But it was good to shoot a score today, and at least know that if I shoot a good one tomorrow, I might have a good chance to win.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT