BRITISH MASTERS SUPPORTED BY SKY SPORTS
October 1, 2017
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Coming so close to winning this championship, it's been incredible to watch your golf over the weekend.  Tell us about it from your point of view.  
RORY McILROY: Yeah, it was good.  It was just nice to have a chance to win a golf tournament.  I think that was the big thing.  The more chances I have like that, I seem to play better.  Mentally I'm just a little more engaged and switched on.   
You know, I started okay today.  I started a little more slowly than yesterday but I was 3-under through nine.  Saw that Paul got off to a great start, and I set myself a target on the back nine.  I said, if I could shoot 4-under on the back nine, finish 17-under, I'll have a chance.   
I did everything that I wanted to do.  It just wasn't good enough in the end today.   
 Q.  Sometimes you have to tip your hat to the other guy.  Incredible play by Paul Dunne?  
RORY McILROY: Incredible, to shoot 61 to win his first Tour event, it's incredibly impressive.  I'm happy for him, as well.  He works hard on his game.  Every time I'm out practicing or on the putting green, the chipping green, he's always there and he's always working hard.  So it's very well deserved.   
 Q.  How much are you looking forward to next week, the Dunhill Links, your final tournament next week?  
RORY McILROY: Looking forward to it.  We always have a great time up there.  The weather is not supposed to be too bad.  I'm really looking forward to going up there and giving it another shot and trying to win a tournament this year.   
 Q.  7-under final round --  
RORY McILROY: Yeah, going out two behind, shooting 7-under, you would think you would have a great chance.  Just shows how well Paul played today to shoot 61, and to win his first Tour event is incredibly impressive.  He fully deserves it.  I'm happy with how I played and don't feel like I could have done much more.  Some weeks, close to your best haven't quite good enough this week and Paul was the best man this week.   
I feel like I've improved and my game improved as I got into contention and got a sniff.  Even today I wanted to shoot something similar to yesterday and was able to go one better.  Set myself a target of 17-under going into the back nine.  I was able to get to that.   
Usually when I set myself a target and get to it, usually the result is what I want it to be, but this time it wasn't to be.  Paul getting off to that really hot start gave me too much to do and he finished the tournament off great, also.   
I'm happy with how I played.  I don't feel like I could have done much more and I'm looking forward to next week.  Feeling good.   
Again, this was a bonus just to be here and play, and to play well.  You know, it's nice to, you know, get a few World Ranking points before I take a few weeks off.  So that's been good.  I'm happy with my performance.  Happy with how most things went this week, and excited just to play with my dad next week and have a good time up in St. Andrews.   
 Q.  127 blows over a weekend, which according to some statisticians, is your lowest weekend tally, but not quite enough?  
RORY McILROY: No, not quite enough.  Left myself a little bit too much to do.  But Paul obviously played unbelievable today.  You know, to shoot 61 out there, and going for your first tour win, you know, it's incredibly impressive.  He fully deserves it.  I couldn't be any happier with how I played over the weekend, and gives me a nice bit of confidence going into next week.   
 Q.  It was a terrific way to round off this week from your point of view.  
RORY McILROY: Yeah, definitely.  You know, I couldn't have done much more.  So yeah, couldn't have done much more and played well over the weekend.  I feel like my game got better once I had a sniff of the tournament, which is always good to see.  I played well under pressure today, and gave myself plenty of chances and held some good putts.  Just wasn't quite enough.   
 Q.  Give us an assessment of Paul.  Obviously you weren't playing with him but his scorecard kind of speaks for himself and we know what he did as an amateur.  It is great for Irish golf.  
RORY McILROY: It is fantastic, and Paul is a very hard worker, as well.  Seems like all that hard work has paid off.   
I said earlier, any time I've been on the range or putting green or chipping green this year, Paul's always been there.  He's a hard worker and he does everything the right way.  As I said, very well deserved, because I don't think anyone going out today would have thought that 20-under par was going to be the winning score.  I definitely didn't.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT