THE 146TH OPEN
July 22, 2017
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








RORY McILROY: It definitely hurt.  Bad swing on 7.  Yeah, I just was a bit sloppy on the 8th hole.  And then I just completely -- I took the wrong club on 10 off the tee.  You either hit a club that stays short of all those bunkers or you take a club that at least only brings the traps up at 300 into play and I did neither.
So that was a really bad club off the tee.  And then I got frustrated with that, just about got it out of the bunker and made 6.  I felt I gave myself some chances coming in.  I didn't quite capitalize.  I should have made that eagle on 15.  And then not to birdie 17 either was disappointing.
So not the back nine that I wanted.
Q. (Inaudible) did you feel there was a low score out there for you?
RORY McILROY: Yeah, there is low scores out there, and people are -- they're not making mistakes.  If you keep it in play, it's almost hard to make a bogey out there, you know?  Yeah, I've always been good when I get off to fast starts being able to keep it going, and I didn't today.  And I needed to, that's the disappointing thing.
Q. (Inaudible.)
RORY McILROY: Yeah, for about six holes.  Yeah, I mean -- it's hard to think big picture now, I'm just off the golf course and I'm a little disappointed.  This week has been a step in the right direction, there's no doubt about it.  And I need to pick myself up, play a good round tomorrow and hope for some bad weather.  And hope for some guys to struggle.  And we'll see what happens.  Yeah, I definitely feel like today was an opportunity lost to get right in the mix going into tomorrow.
Q. How close are you to putting to together, Rory?  It looks like it's almost there.
RORY McILROY: It's almost there, but still just a few sloppy swings.  The swing on 7, 153 yards to the pin and you miss it that far left.  Just stuff like that.  And that's just more mechanics and where my golf swing is right now and just fighting that left shot a little bit.
So left pins are a bit of a struggle right now.  And I'm trying to trust what I'm doing and trust my swing.  And I did there.  I felt like I made a good swing and I looked up and the ball was about ten yards left of where I wanted it to be.
It's getting there.  As I said, it's nearly there.  It's not quite where I need it to be to win the biggest golf tournaments in the world.  But it's getting there.
Q. What's the story tomorrow (inaudible)?
RORY McILROY: Just play a good round of golf and see where that finishes me, I guess.  Just go out there and play well and try to limit the mistakes, and get off to a fast start again like I've done the last couple of days and just try to keep it going.
Q. (Inaudible.)
RORY McILROY: I think a little bit of both.  I think the conditions were maybe a -- five percent tougher for us, just the wind got up a little bit.  So there was that.  And then I think the occasion is probably most -- what's most to do with it.  Once you're up there near the lead of a major championship or an Open Championship you don't play quite as free as you may have done the first two days.  And there's a lot of -- I think as well there was quite a lot of inexperience at the top of the leaderboard in the last few groups, and guys that are finding themselves in this position for the first time.  And that can be tough to deal with, as well.
Q. (Inaudible.)
RORY McILROY: I hit 3-iron off the tee, which just is bringing the two bunkers on the left into play, and that one on the right.  So I needed to either lay back and hit 4-iron or 5-iron and give myself 170-yard shot in, or take those three bunkers out of play and keep it more up the left.  At least then you're only putting one bunker into play to hit it into instead of three.  I was disappointed with that.
Q. Would that have been driver?
RORY McILROY: 1-iron.  But I probably would have -- maybe 4-iron was probably the better play.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT