ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 14, 2017
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Possible to sum up the level of frustration?
RORY McILROY: Yeah, look, I'm frustrated but at the same time I thought I saw some good signs out there.  I thought my putting improved this week compared to last week.  Wedge play, you know, I hit some better wedges today but still room for improvement.  Like I shot 1-under par today, it's not -- it's close without being -- it's hard to sort of put my finger on it.  But it's not like I'm shooting 76s and 77s.  It's all around even par, but look, even par these days isn't good enough.
Yeah, I'm just waiting for something.  Waiting for something, some sort of spark, some sort of -- just something to go right, and the last couple weeks haven't been like that.  Just got to keep plugging away and hopefully it turns around next week.
Q. You were desperate for competitive rounds before The Open Championship and that's now not going to happen.  How will you spend your weekend?
RORY McILROY: Yeah, I'll probably head down to Birkdale early.  Get some early practise rounds in.  And yeah, do a little bit of practise down there I guess and yeah, just try to get myself ready for that golf course and the test that that's going to provide next week.
Q. Just how frustrating is this?
RORY McILROY: Yeah, look, I'm not getting to play the weekend, but again, it's not -- I'd be much more worried if I went out there and shot a couple of 76s and I'm nowhere near trying to make the cut or whatever.
The difference between shooting 1-under par and 4- or 5-under par isn't that much of a difference.  I played the front nine today in 3-under par and felt pretty good.  I had that putt hole on 13, and I gave myself some chances coming in, but yeah, look, it is what it is.  Just got to get myself ready for next week.
Q. It's an indication of the fine margins of the game, isn't it.
RORY McILROY: It is.  It is.  I feel like I've just been on the wrong side of them the past couple of weeks, and hopefully next week I'm on the right side of them.  But it really is; if I go to Birkdale next week and I shoot a couple of even pars like I've sort of done these last couple weeks, I don't think I'll be that far -- I know it's going to be a much tougher test than it has been the last couple weeks.  I feel like I'm more than capable of going down there and shooting a couple of even pars or shooting something in the 60s and getting myself into contention.
Q. Do you think you've had enough competitive rounds to take you into a major like The Open next week?
RORY McILROY: No, I haven't had enough competitive rounds this year.  With the injury I've missed a lot of events.  It tough.  Injuries, you can't really mess with them, and you can't come back too early.  I missed a lot of play because of that.  I've sort of been playing catch-up all year.
So no, I haven't played enough rounds.  I would have loved to have played more rounds going into, not just The Open, but the rest of the year.  But I'm sort of trying to learn as I go along.
Q. Fair to say 13 wouldn't be your favorite hole on the planet?
RORY McILROY: No, 4-over for it.  It's just there's so much sand in that bunker.  I told myself, you've got to hit this hard.  You've got to hit this hard, and I couldn't hit it any harder.  Thing just buried it.
Yeah, look, it wasn't that good to me this week but that's how it goes.
Q. The positive signs on the first seven holes, you'll try to take that in particular to next week?
RORY McILROY: Yeah, I think I played the front nine this week in 5-under par.  So it's not -- again, like I keep saying, it not that far away.  I'm missing cuts but I'm just on the wrong side of doing something quite good.  So just got to stay patient.  I'm saying the same thing to you guys week-in and week-out, but hopefully next week, I can say I stayed patient and it sort of worked out.
Q. Did you know -- what that last putt?
RORY McILROY: I did.  I saw the cut was sort of going from 1-under to even to 1-under, and right now it's back to 1-under.  So if it stayed at 1-under, it would make me feel a bit better, but I just pulled the, whatever, off it, and it was a terrible putt, but one of those things.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT