U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP 2017
June 15, 2017
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Can you give us your assessment of things?
RORY McILROY: Well, it all started so well.  I just, I don't think I hit a fairway from the 10th.  I hit the fairway on the 10th, and I didn't hit one on the way in.  You cannot play this golf course if you're not in position off the tee, and I wasn't in position.  Obviously, I paid the price for it today.
Q. Did the injury trouble you at all?
RORY McILROY: No, not at all.  I feel great.  That's all totally fine.  I was hacking around in the rough out there and didn't feel it one bit.  So, no, that's totally fine.
Just timing was a little bit off, and that was it.  Yeah, just really bad tee shots which led to obviously not being able to give myself many looks for birdies.
Q. What do you think the problem was?  Competitive rust, do you think?
RORY McILROY: A little bit of rust.  A bit of rust, timing.  Timing was a little off.  I started missing some left on the course and tried to sort of correct it on the way in and missed a couple right.  So a little bit of timing, and a bit of rust as well, yeah.
Q. How much, Rory, does it feel like there is a good bit of golf in you to possibly shoot something tomorrow that will get you into the last two rounds?
RORY McILROY: Yeah, I mean, I feel like I'm capable.  As I said, I just need to get the ball on the fairway.  If I get the ball on the fairway, I can give myself some chances and some looks at birdies.  And you know, that just wasn't the case today.  I didn't play the par-5s particularly well today either.  So, there are a lot of things that I could have done better today, obviously.  Just have to try to go out tomorrow and rectify those.
Q. With that awkward lie on 17, some of that stuff in the rough, how tough is it to get out?
RORY McILROY: Yeah, the lie actually wasn't that bad.  If anything, I got lucky with the lies I got today in the rough because I was a little wide.  Because it was so much above my feet, the heel, the toe of the club was so far in that I didn't know where it was going to go.  So I sort of hit one there and hacked my way up.  But, yeah, it's hit or miss.
You can get away with it sometimes, but then other times it sort of gets you.  I'd say more often than not I sort of got away with it today, and I still shot 6-over par, so shows you how much you need to hit it in the fairway.
Q. Was this a little bit of calm as the course kicked you back up to the wide fairways?
RORY McILROY: I don't think so.  They should be wide enough for me to hit it into.  I just didn't hit it into them.  Yeah, it was just one of those days.  I was just a little bit off.
Yeah, again, just trying to go out tomorrow, hit the fairways.  And I know if I hit fairways around here, the course is still soft enough you can get it close and give yourself a lot of looks for birdies.
Q. There were some decent scores posted today?
RORY McILROY: Yeah, of course.  I watched some of the coverage earlier on and saw what Rickie did, and Brooks Koepka and some of those guys, so I was trying -- I thought I was on course to do that after being 2-under through two, and didn't work out that way.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT