MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 9, 2017
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Another week here, another Masters. This one seems like it didn't hurt as much?
RORY McILROY: No. Even though I'm going to finish five back, I feel like I finished five or six back the last few years‑‑ six, whatever.
But I feel encouraged, if nothing else. I said down there, I feel comfortable on the golf course. I feel every time I tee it up here I've got a real good chance to win. I've had four top‑10s in a row here, and top‑10 is what I'm looking for. But at the same time the ups and downs that I've had here in the past don't seem to be quite as up or quite as down. It seems a little more steady and that can lead to a lot in the future, I hope. 

Q. Did you have a score in mind today when you went out?
RORY McILROY: Yeah, I thought if I shot 8‑under par it would be good enough. I thought 67 would playoff, and I thought 64 would win it. We'll see how that prediction goes, and see what Rosie does it in the last few holes coming in here. But that's what I was aiming for. 

Q. Tough conditions going in, but to finish up with a round like that, and the first major of the year, you have to feel pretty good about that?
RORY McILROY: Yeah, coming off an injury, and every stroke play event that I've played this year, I've finished in the top‑10. So I've been consistent. I had stretches of golf that I needed to to have a chance to win. I had a chance to win at Bay Hill. But it looks like a T‑7. I had a T‑4 at Bay Hill, T‑7 Mexico. T‑10 in South Africa. The match play was a little bit of an anomaly.
So my game is in good shape and I'm looking forward to getting back out there in a few weeks and just competing again and having another chance to be in contention. 

Q. Is there something in your game technically that you think you might need to change or do you feel like you have everything?
RORY McILROY: I felt my golf ball this week was doing things in the wind that was very inconsistent. There's one thing I'm going to change. I'm going to try to work on over the next few weeks. But I feel I'm swinging it as good as I have been for a long time. I've done a lot of good work with Michael over the past few weeks. My putting feels as good as it has in a long time.
I didn't drive it as good as I could have the first couple of days here. But I'm not really putting it down to anything much. I still feel I'm a good driver of the golf ball. So I'm going to think around the equipment the next few weeks and try to find something a little better. 

Q. (Inaudible.)
RORY McILROY: No, I feel like all aspects I'm getting pretty good at. Hopefully a matter of time. 

Q. There's three or four majors left ahead, and the expectations are higher right now?
RORY McILROY: Of course. I think Erin Hills is a bit of an unknown to everyone. But Birkdale is one of the best Open courses that's on the rota. And going to Quail Hollow for the PGA, and I've had success there in the past. So nothing but positives ahead I feel. 
And my game feels in good shape. It's just a matter of working hard and putting myself in position to win. I'll turn my focus to trying to get ready for the U.S. Open in June and try to add to that major tally there.

Q. How much are you looking forward to tying the knot?
RORY McILROY: I'm excited. It's a great time in my life. It would have been nice to walk down the aisle in a green jacket. 

Q. Would you have done it? 
RORY McILROY: Oh, yeah. If the members would have allowed me, Chairman Payne would have allowed me, but I'm very‑‑ we're very excited. It's a great time in our lives. That's what I'm‑‑ the next few weeks it's all about that. I'll come back to the players refreshed and a married man and start a new chapter in my life.

Q. Are you going on a honeymoon?
RORY McILROY: Yeah. We'll come straight in. I wanted to do it right. I didn't want to wait until the end of the season. Straight after we're going to go on honeymoon and spend ten days in the middle of nowhere and get away from it all.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT