MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 4, 2017
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







THE MODERATOR: Good afternoon, everyone. It's great to welcome Rory McIlroy back to the Masters for his ninth appearance.
  Rory won multiple TOUR victories in 2016 for a third consecutive year with victories in the Deutsche Bank Championship and THE TOUR Championship, and last year, he finished 10th in the Masters for his third consecutive Top‑10 finish. 
  Rory continued with his attempt to complete golf's career Grand Slam this year, adding to his victories in the 2011 U.S. Open, 2014 Open Championship, 2012 and 2014 PGA Championship.
  Before we get started, I'd like to ask Rory how you're feeling after your injury earlier this year and how have you been preparing. 
  RORY McILROY: Physically I'm fine. It wasn't the start that I wanted for the year. I wanted to play quite a heavy schedule coming in, coming into the Masters. But the one event in South Africa and then seven weeks off. 
  Again, in that time, it allowed me to work on a few things in my game that you know, whenever you're playing week‑in, week‑out, you may neglect a little bit, so I spent a good bit of time around the short game area and the putting green. So you know, I tried to get that really sharp. Obviously it's of huge importance this week to have your short game as sharp as possible. 
  Yeah, since I've come back, the two stroke‑play events I played in, I felt I gave a good account for myself. Had a good chance in Bay Hill but didn't quite finish it off. I'm feeling good coming into this week and I've prepared well over the past ten days. 
  I've made a visit up here for a couple of days. I played 99 holes in two weeks here, so I've played the golf course enough, I feel. I'm ready to go. 
Q. What was your initial reaction when you saw your draw?
  RORY McILROY: Yeah, the draw's fine. I mean, I was expecting‑‑ I played with Hideki here a number of times and I've played with a few of the Asian contenders, so I sort of expected one of those guys. 
  And then Jon Rahm, I haven't played with him competitively. We played 18 holes, a practice round, in Austin. I'm really impressed with his game. Obviously he had a great win earlier this year at Torrey Pines, and then gave it a great run in Austin. He's a great young player. He'll be a huge asset to our European Ryder Cup Team in years to come. I'm looking forward to it.
  Yeah, the weather forecast, at least the wind the first two days will dry the golf course out a little bit, with all this rain that we're expecting tomorrow. But the course wasn't as soft as I expected it to be today. It was still in really good shape after the rain yesterday.
  It has been quite blustery here the last few years and I think the guys, we've experienced those conditions and hopefully I know how to handle them by now.
Q. I believe you made some equipment changes this week. Can you just talk us through the reasons for making them this week?
  RORY McILROY: Yeah, I came up‑‑ as I said, I came up here last week Sunday night, Monday and Tuesday, and I brought a few different things with me just to try out. I felt with the ball that I'm playing at the minute, it's quite spiny. And I needed a couple of fairway woods that didn't spin quite as much, and I needed a couple of fairways that I thought I could turn over easier. I brought quite a few clubs with me on the trip last week and those two seemed to be the ones that work the best for me. 
  Practiced with them this week, or last week in Florida and I feel comfortable with them. That's basically the reason. It's just that they fit this golf course a little bit better than the other ones did.
Q. Just wondered, is there any pressure off you in terms of your own expectation or other's expectations of you?
  RORY McILROY: Yeah, I think it's been a relatively quiet buildup to the Masters for me, which has been quite nice. It's made a bit of a change from the last couple of years, especially '15, coming off the back of two major wins in a row and going for the career Grand Slam. And even last year; last year I felt like the spotlight was shared a little bit among a few guys. Obviously this year, with Dustin winning three times, he's the form player right now and there's a lot of story lines.
  I feel like it's been relatively quiet which is quite nice. I don't feel like I can fly under the radar anymore, but at the same time, it's sort of felt that way to me and it's been nice to be able to prepare and just go about my business and try to get ready for this tournament. 
Q. You mentioned playing 99 holes. Obviously a lot of players have had their preparations interrupted by the weather. Probably happen again tomorrow. Does that give you a bit of an edge maybe?
  RORY McILROY: Yeah, I mean, I've realized that the more I can get comfortable with this golf course, and the Club as a whole; the more I can get comfortable in the environment and the surroundings, the better. So that's why I come up here just before the Match Play and played 27 holes, and I came up Monday, Tuesday, and played 54 in that two‑day span. 
  The more I can just play the golf course and almost make it seem like second nature to me, where to hit the balls on the green and where to start putts and know where the pin positions are; the more that can become second nature, the better. That's why I played a lot of holes and played a lot of matches, as well. I didn't really‑‑ we all know more than likely where the pin positions are going to be. So I didn't scope out the holes. 
  I played matches, shot scores, played one ball, tried to do it that way, because obviously that's what we're doing in the tournament and I thought that was a good way to prepare.
Q. Will you make it to three figures tomorrow? Will you practice at all? 
  RORY McILROY: I'm going to try to. I'm planning to play the back nine early, and then depending if there's a drastic change in the forecast, then maybe play the Par 3, but it looks like that could be a washout. Try to get another nine holes in on the back nine and go from there.
Q. We've made such a big deal about Jordan coming back this year and the first time he plays No. 12. Do we make too big of a deal of it? And what were your emotions the first time you went back to No. 10 the year after?
  RORY McILROY: Yeah, I think it's a nice story line for you guys and for golf; Jordan coming back after what happened on 12. But I can assure you, Jordan will be fine. He'll step up on Thursday on that 12th tee box and he'll just be playing to play the best shot he possibly can. 
  I'm sure what happened last year won't enter his mind. I mean, look, it's tough to get over. Leaving and coming back here in 2012, of course your mind does go back to the previous year when you're thinking what could have been; if only I had of parred 10 and if only I didn't three‑putt 11. Those things do run through your mind. But you very quickly snap out of it because this golf course and this tournament requires the utmost concentration and focus and you really just have to focus on your job that day, and that's trying to shoot the best score possible.
Q. You admirably criticized Muirfield when it took them so long to have women members. You called it obscene and you said you really wouldn't want to have a cup of tea with them. Obviously famously you played a round of golf with Donald Trump, and among other things, he bragged about sexually assaulting women, mocked a disabled person and had a week‑long battle the Gold Star family. What's the difference? 
  RORY McILROY: I think Muirfield Golf Club, or the honorable company of having the golfers and the office of the President of the United States are two completely different things. 
  I've spent time in President Trump's company before, and that does not mean that I agree with everything that he says. Actually the opposite. You know, we're in a day and age where‑‑ we were never in a day and age where we could say those things, but some thought it was appropriate.
  But whenever an invitation or a request comes my way, I don't want to say I jump at the chance, but at the same time, you know, to see the Secret Service, to see the scene, I mean, that's really what I was going for. I mean, there was not one bit of politics discussed in that round of golf. He was more interested talking about the grass that he just put on the greens. 
  But, yeah, look, it's a difficult one. I felt I would have been making more of a statement if I had of turned it down. It's not a tough place to be put in, but it was a round of golf and nothing more. 
  Would I do it again? After the sort of backlash I received, I'd think twice about it. 
Q. You said, I think maybe on a Podcast or something earlier that there was a time in your life where you felt like you had to try to please a lot of different people and at times it made you uncomfortable and you eventually realized, I have to be myself. Wondering kind of how ‑‑ and whatever, people criticizing you, that's fine. Wonder how that evolution kind of came about? How did you decide, I'm just going to be me and who cares what people say? 
  RORY McILROY: Yeah, I guess it takes awhile. And I've said this before in certain interviews that, you know, whenever you're in your early 20s, I feel like you're still searching for who you are. Everyone goes through that awkward stage in their lives where, not that they are lost but what is important to you, what's not important to you. You figure out that some things that are important to you aren't important to others and vice versa. So you can't please everyone. 
  I think the more I became comfortable in my own skin and my own convictions, that's when I realized, I'll just have to live my life the way I do, and some people will like that and some people don't. Those people are the ones that don't really matter to me. And, you know, the ones that do, they support me 100 percent and that's great. 
Q. Can you imagine yourself in the situation that Lexi Thompson found herself in Sunday? And the second part to that, turning it around, how much attention do you really pay in the heat of battle to how your playing competitor is marking a ball, and have you ever said something to a playing competitor that you thought their mark was off? 
  RORY McILROY: Yeah, look, I was watching it, and I mean, I think anyone that plays golf knows‑‑ and I know Lexi and I've known her for a few years, and she is the most‑‑ that is the one thing that she is not. She is not a cheat. She is a great girl. She's a great player, great competitor. 
  But, I mean, she marked the ball from the side and she didn't get it right behind the ball. And then she cleaned it or whatever she did, she put it back, lifted the marker up top. 
  Everyone that plays golf in here knows that when you put your marker down and you lift your ball up and you put the ball back down, it doesn't go exactly in the same place again. 
  Yes, okay, it might have moved a quarter of an inch. There may have been a rules infraction there. But I just think what's happened the last 12 months with all these rules controversies in the game, it just doesn't put out a good image for us and for the game of golf. 
  You know, I think Tiger said it best. People at home don't need to be wearing striped shirts. They don't need to be calling in and officiating us. 
  It was tough on Lexi. The two‑shot penalty, fine. There was a rules infraction there. I get it. But the two shots for signing an incorrect scorecard? She didn't know she was signing an incorrect scorecard at the time and she didn't have a chance to rectify that. That was the one that really I think outraged most people. 
  But, I mean, how good was she; she birdied three of the last six holes to come in and force a playoff. She still had a chance to win. That mental fortitude will serve her well in the future. It's a great learning lesson for her and I'm sure she'll go on to win many major championships. But I think 99.9 percent of the public and golf fraternity are with her on that one. I thought she was very hard done by it. But I can see why they needed to make that ruling. But at the same time, I think something needs to be looked at where people call in and may see things. 
  I was even watching a little bit of the Live From coverage on the Golf Channel last night and Brandel and David Duval and Frank Nobilo were having a good conversation about it. Someone might have been calling in because they were rooting against her. Where does it stop and where does it end? She showed a lot of character and it will stand her in good stead.
Q. In earlier years coming here to Augusta with Nike equipment, would you have changed clubs going into the Masters? And in changing clubs, is there a little bit of uncertainty in trying to find the right combination since Nike pulled the plug on their equipment business?
  RORY McILROY: No, not at all. Yeah, I've came up here when I was with Nike, and even like bent 3‑woods to 12 degrees to make them like mini drivers and put a little bit of weight in the heel so it would make them turnover easier. So I've always been experimenting with that sort of stuff and trying to find the best possible setup for this golf course. So it's not new that I've done that.
  It's a nice position to be in. You have the freedom to try what's out there, but again, it would be nice at some point to have a very settled bag where I know what I'm using week‑in, week‑out. I feel like I'm nearly at that point but not quite. 
  But I feel like what I have in my bag this week will be adequate enough to do the job if I can make good swings with them.
Q. What have you learned over the years about compartmentalizing, whether it be a situation like 10 here a few years ago or something off the course, how important is that to be able to focus on what's at hand and is that a learned thing with experience?
  RORY McILROY: I think it is a learned thing. I think everyone that sits up here this week in front of you guys if they are honest will tell you that there's been stuff off the golf course that's affected them on it, and you need to experience that to learn how to handle it and deal with it. Some people do it differently. Some people find it easier to compartmentalize and some people don't. 
  When I get inside the ropes, it's five hours where I'm on my own‑‑ I'm with JP, but I'm basically on my own and it's a nice way to have five hours out of your day where people can't get to you and I sort of like that. I feel like I can get away from whatever it is off the golf course and just focus on my game for those four or five hours. I think I'm lucky in that way that I can do that. I don't know what other guys do, but I think it's something you just have to learn how to do yourself. And everyone's different, and I feel like I've put a few mental processes in place where I can focus on the job at hand. 
Q. You were quite candid back in 2011 about the situation here in saying that you had learned a good deal that served you well. Are those lessons that you have been able to maintain, keep with you over the years? Have they been useful since then?
  RORY McILROY: I certainly think so. As a golfer, I think there's a lot of lessons there that have served me well from then to winning four major championships and being able to achieve some of the things that I've wanted to achieve. 
  And then as a person, as well, you know, nothing is given to you. You have to go and work for it. It's never over‑‑ the one thing I did learn, if I'm four or five behind going into the back nine this week, for example, you know, it's never over. You can never give up, because it takes either a lapse of concentration from someone else or a moment of brilliance from yourself to turn things around. 
  We experienced that last year on the back nine where Danny made a few birdies and Jordan had that little, I don't want to say collapse, but obviously that hiccup on 11 and 12, and things totally changed. 
  But, yeah, as a golfer, I learned a few things. As a person, I guess just to never give up and to persevere. I feel like I've taken lessons from that day and they have served me well to this point.
Q. You've had some high rounds in the past here. Have you been able to pinpoint why that is and changed any strategy to get that issue out of the way for the future?
  RORY McILROY: If I can make a three on 4 and a four on 11 every day this week, I think I'll be okay. I think I played those holes 9 over par last year (laughter).
  But around here, don't take on too much. I think that's the thing‑‑ actually I had a little conversation yesterday with Jack Nicklaus in Florida. That's what he said. He said to me, I took on too much a couple of times and it cost me a couple of green jackets. 
  I'm like, Well, you have six. (Laughter).
  But he said, it is a golf course that can tempt you. It can tempt you into doing a little bit too much. 
  I cast my mind back to the 11th hole on Saturday last year where I'm in the pine straw on the left and I'm trying to hit this low hook around and catch the hill and trying to get it up onto the green and hit this heroic shot and it goes in the water and I make a six. That's the last thing I needed. I was 3‑ or 4‑over for the day at that point and I needed to hit it to the right of the green and try and make my up‑and‑down. Even if you make five, five is better than six; take the water out of play. Just little things like that where the golf course tempts you to do something. So it's just a matter of being smart, taking your medicine when you have to and moving on.
Q. Over the years you've told us how much this tournament has always meant to you. Can you think back to what it was like the first shot in competition for you, how you felt and who you were playing with? 
  RORY McILROY: Just nervous. I couldn't sleep the night before. It's different. You know, you come up here as much as you want, but once you step on that first tee and it's the first hole of the Masters, it's a little different. It seems like that bunker on the right gets bigger and it seems like those trees on the left come in a little bit more and seems like the fairway is nonexistent. 
  But it's a great feeling, just the rush, the thrill of playing in your first Masters. Luckily, I've been able to come back; they have let me in every year since, so that's nice. I thoroughly enjoy this week. No matter if you win or lose, it's one of the highlights of the year. 
Q. What did you do on that first shot?
  RORY McILROY: Hit it as hard as you can.
Q. Where did your ball go? 
  RORY McILROY: I think left side of the fairway. I think I did okay. 
Q. You went out with a couple amateurs today. First of all, how does that happen? Do you talk to them? Do they come talk to you? And does it feel weird that they come to you as a veteran asking for advice on the golf course? 
  RORY McILROY: Yeah, a little bit. I was up here three weeks ago with my dad and one member and another gentleman, and Toto was here playing a practice round and he followed us for a couple holes on the back nine and before he had to leave, he asked me what my plans were for the week. 
  I said, Look, I've got media to do on Tuesday afternoon. I'm going to tee early if you want to join me, you're more than welcome. Toto joined me. 
  And then I actually went over to Ian Poulter's house for dinner one night at Bay Hill and Curtis Luck was there. And same thing, Curtis said, what are your plans the week of Augusta? 
  I said, Well, I'm actually playing with Toto on Tuesday, so if you want to join us at 8:00 a.m., you're more than welcome. So had myself a little Pro‑Am out there. Didn't think you played Pro‑Ams in majors, but it was a lot of fun. They are both really good guys, young, just starting out in their careers. 
  I remember early on in my Masters, we were playing with‑‑ it's a little bit different but playing with Tom Watson. You know, Tom and I, it's a little bit different obviously, but at the same time, I really appreciated that and I appreciated him taking time out to play nine holes with me. So I tried to do that. I played with a few amateurs in the last couple years, and you know, I know how much I appreciated it and hopefully they do, too. 
Q. Can I get your thoughts on Curtis's game and what impresses you most about him? And how do you think he'll do with the transition, given he plans to turn pro right after this event?
  RORY McILROY: On the first tee, they all showed up for the game. I said, I'm a pro, these guys are amateurs, I'm going to make money at this. 
  But I asked Curtis, I said, When are you turning pro? 
  He goes, On Monday. 
  I said, I'll accept payment on Monday (laughter).
  But Curtis's game is good. He's very‑‑ I think one of the big things that will stick with him, he seems very chill, very like flat‑liner. Nothing really fazes him. It didn't seem like anything fazed him out there. 
  His golf game is good and he hits it plenty far enough. He's very consistent. I didn't really see any weaknesses there.
  He obviously had a great run winning the U.S. Amateur and winning the Asia‑Pacific, as well. You know, it's an exciting prospect for you guys the next few years.
Q. Since they made the changes to the golf course, 15, 20 years, a lot of eventual winners have been first page of the leaderboard on Thursday. How important is it to get off to that good start on Thursday and how tough is it to come back if you're 75, 76? 
  RORY McILROY: It's a good point. I think it's always important to get off to a decent start in tournaments but I think especially here, you don't want to feel like you're playing catch‑up on this golf course, because you feel like the more you force the issue, the more things can go wrong. You start to shoot at a few pins and you short‑side yourself. You know, leave yourself in spots that you don't really want to. Then you can run up numbers pretty quickly. 
  So it is; it's important to get off to a good start. Look, you don't need to come out and shoot 65 in the first day but at the same time, you're better off shooting something under par just to get yourself off to a nice start. 
  But yeah, as I said, just don't want to go chasing it on this golf course because if you have to chase it, that's when things can start to go wrong. 
Q. Did you speak to Jack specifically about getting advice about getting the job done here? Is that why you sought him out and is there anything he shared with you that could be useful this week?
  RORY McILROY: I think I helped him more than he helped me. I adjusted his driver for him because he's trying to hit it longer than Gary Thursday morning. I told him, if he hits it longer than Gary, I want a mention because I adjusted the weight in his driver. He kept hitting it left. 
  I said, If you adjust this, it might help. 
  Obviously he's very old school and whatever. I adjusted it for him and he started hitting these little fades. 
  I was like, Perfect, there you go. 
  No, I was practicing at The Bear's Club and he came and was trying a few drivers. It's amazing how competitive he still is. It's unbelievable. So yeah, that was really it. It was more of a passing comment.
Q. You're one of the only guys that has played Quail Hollow since the changes. What did you think about the changes and who do you think it might favor? 
  RORY McILROY: The changes are good. It definitely makes the start of the golf course more challenging. The first hole, now instead of it being 3‑wood and a wedge, it's a driver and a good mid‑iron. 
  I think you won't really see guys getting off to the hot starts that they used to. You see guys maybe, especially those first six holes, you'd see guys 3‑ or 4‑under par. I don't think that's going to happen now. And then the rest of the golf course is pretty much the same. Obviously they have lengthened 11 a little bit. But what they have done on 16, 17 and 18 over the years has stayed pretty much the same. 
  I like the changes. I mean, I obviously like the golf course the way it was before. My record around there is pretty good. I fancy my chances around there. But it's always been, I guess, a modern player's golf course. You've got to, if you can drive it a long way, there's an advantage there, especially coming in with the drivable par 4, 14th and in; the par5 15 and the long holes coming in. 
  So yeah, I think people will really enjoy it this year. It's a great venue for a tournament and it will be a great venue for a major, as well. 
Q. Talking about amateurs; you played with another amateur in the field this week, Brad‑‑
  RORY McILROY: No, no arm wrestling this week. I don't want to embarrass myself again. 
  Actually I haven't caught up with Brad, so I want to try to catch up with him at some point. Yeah, I never experienced this as an amateur. I played here as a 19‑year‑old but as a pro. It would have been nice to be able to stay in the Crow's Nest a couple of nights and do all the things that they are doing and have the amateur dinner last night and stuff. But they are having a great time. 
  And I said to both of the guys this week, Just go out and have fun. I mean, it's the coolest week of the year. If you can't have fun here, you're not going to have fun anywhere else. I just told them to go out there and enjoy it and hopefully if they do that, they will play some good golf. 
  THE MODERATOR: Thanks very much, Rory. Have a great week. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT