MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 9, 2017
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Can you sum up your Masters experience this year for us?  
RORY McILROY: Yeah, yeah, it wasn't quite as adventurous as previous Masters have been for me. I didn't get too high with some really low nine hole scores, but I didn't shoot any nine hole scores that were in the 40s. It was quite a consistent, steady Masters for me.   
It wasn't quite good enough. I felt like I had an opportunity yesterday to shoot something in the mid to high 60s, which would have got me closer to the lead today and I didn't quite do that. I gave a decent account for myself and will come back next year and try again.  
   
 Q. What do you think you've learned this year as you continue?  
RORY McILROY: I'm getting more comfortable here. I really am getting more comfortable. I feel like every time I tee it up here I have a real good chance to win. My record over the past four years sort of reflects that in terms of being in the top‑10; top‑10s right now isn't good enough. It's going in the right direction. And every time I come back here I feel like I have more and more of a chance to win.  
   
 Q. Another year slips by. How important is it that you don't let frustration get in the way?  
RORY McILROY: Of course. Coming off the golf course yesterday I was frustrated. But after today I'm encouraged again just from just how I felt around the course. I felt comfortable. I felt like I had a really good chance. I prepared really well, I feel. I came up here a couple of times and enjoyed my time here and just played. And I feel that serves me well, and that's something I'm totally going to adapt to the future.   
   
 Q. The lack of actual competitive rounds, did that come to pass that that might have been the difference, because your meticulous preparation put you in a great position otherwise?  
RORY McILROY: I don't think so. Again, as I said, I feel the time off was more of a blessing. I got to work on some stuff in my short game. I felt as comfortable on the greens here as I ever had. Even though I had a couple of three‑putts. But I holed some good ones. I had a couple of pars when I needed to. I didn't convert the chances I should have yesterday but every time I come back here I'm more and more comfortable.   
I don't think it was lack of competitive rounds. I played a light schedule up until this tournament for a few years in a row, I wasn't planning to this year, it just happened to be that way. It's another major and another missed opportunity. But I'll move on and focus my attention on the U.S. Open coming up.  
   
 Q. Is it possible you might look back on this, when you have a green jacket around your shoulders, that that was the transition Masters that made you feel, okay, I'm ready, I'm comfortable here, I can win here?   
RORY McILROY: Yeah, I think this has been, '14, '15, '16, '17, it's been a transitional period where I feel like I figured it out and not been‑‑ the ups and downs haven't been quite as much as they have been in previous years. I'm figuring out how to get my way around here. And even if I don't have my best stuff, still get in in 72, 71, so you're not shooting yourself out of the tournament.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT