ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 17, 2017
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talk about your thoughts on the round.
RORY MCILROY: I felt like I did okay.  Obviously I had been on the cut line after yesterday and then with two bogeys today it wasn't the ideal start.  But sort of battled back and I just fought, I sort of I fought a little bit of everything over the past couple of days.  That's sort of, it's been a little bit of a struggle, which I didn't really anticipate coming in here.  I felt I was hitting the ball well in practice, putting it good, just haven't really been able to piece it together.  So, at least I'm here for the weekend and got two more days to try and improve on what I've done so far.
Q. After your round yesterday you said you went to the range to work on some stuff.  How are you feeling about your game?
RORY MCILROY: I thought I hit it a little better today.  I gave myself a few more looks.  So, yeah, it was better.  It's still not quite where I want it, but it's at least it was better.
Q. Is there any specific area of your game that's sticking out?
RORY MCILROY: Yeah, I'm usually quite, I'm usually a good fairway wood player.  Fairway woods have been terrible this week.  To know that -- I know what I'm doing, it's just a matter of trying to iron that out.  And it's hard, okay, I hit balls for 40 minutes last night, but it's not enough time to make a real change.  So, just try to work on a few things and try to keep improving.
Q. Math Fitzpatrick is playing well here.  Do you feel like he doesn't get enough credit over here for the work that he's done early in his career in Europe?
RORY MCILROY: I think so.  The U.S. Amateur champion and like he's still very, very young.  I think that it's not Matt's demeanor to be out there.  He's a quiet kid and he gets his business done and he does it very efficiently and very well.  Yeah, I mean look, he's a great talent.  He's a Ryder Cup player already and he won one of our biggest tournaments, has won a couple of our biggest tournaments over in Europe so far, so it's not a surprise to me to see him up there at the top of this leaderboard.
Q. Not making the cut a year ago, can you say where your game is now versus last when you were here?
RORY MCILROY: I did make the cut a year ago.
Q. Oh, I was mistaken.
RORY MCILROY: I had a bad first round, but I came back okay in the second.  But, yeah, it's okay.  Again, it seemed like last year I struggled a little bit with my swing as well.  I fought it and sort of got through and shot a good last round to sort of get myself up the leaderboard a little bit and I'm going to have to have a couple of good rounds this year to try and get myself up there again.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT