ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 19, 2017
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You made a run.  
RORY MCILROY: Yeah, I did, I made a run.  It was one of those things, like I played great today, gave myself plenty of chances, and made some birdies and did what I needed to, took advantage of the par-5s and the shorter holes.  I had two good chances on the last two holes.  I thought that, walking up to the last green, I saw Leishman had made eagle on 16 to go to 11, so I definitely gave the putt a run, that's for sure.  But a bit too much of a run.  But these things happen.  But I'm pleased with how I went.  10-under for the weekend around here is good scoring and I can take a lot of positives from it going into next week.   
 Q.  I've seen a number of shots in my career, but that third shot behind 16, that was something special.  Describe that.  
RORY MCILROY: Yeah, it's one of those ones that you got to bump it sort of down there and there was a little bit of luck involved, just hoping that the contours take it the way you think it's going to go and it looked for awhile there it was going to go in and it had a great chance.  And I was happy to get away from that hole with 4, after the tee shot.  And I really thought if I could have made one over the last couple I would have had a great chance.   
 Q.  On the last hole, that 3-putt, was that just a matter much thinking you need to make the first one being a little too aggressive?  
RORY MCILROY: Yeah, exactly.  I wanted to give it a run, at least.  I sort of -- I read the putt well, I just read it as if I was hitting it normal speed and I took all the break out of it.  But, yeah, just one of those things.  I walked up the last and saw that Leishman had eagled 16 and went to 11, so I thought I need to make this to have a chance.  And so I hope he pars the last and it is 11, so I don't feel too bad about myself.  But we'll see.  But I give it a good run today, I played well, a lot of positives to take going into obviously match play next week but ultimately Augusta in a few weeks time.   
 Q.  Do you feel like you're starting to peak at the right time?  
RORY MCILROY: Yeah, I struggled the first two days here.  I found it a little bit on the weekend and it's just nice to get to play again and get to feel like you're playing a run of events, and looking forward to getting to Austin and getting back at it at Match Play.  Obviously, it's a different format, but you're still competing, it's still a great way to get ready.  So I'm just happy that I'm out here playing again and I feel good and yeah, so it's all good.   
 Q.  What's your assessment of where your game is at?  
RORY MCILROY: Yeah, it's pretty good.  I've got, I had a second in South Africa at the start of the year, felt like I started off pretty good.   
And then a 7th in Mexico and was playing in the final group for the last two days.   
And then here I'm going to finish Top-5 or whatever it is.   
So it's been good.  I haven't had the win that I've wanted, but it's been good consistent play and that hopefully bodes well for the year ahead.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT