ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 16, 2017
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
RORY MCILROY: Very disappointing.  I didn't hit the ball really the way I wanted, I lost a few shots to the right, put myself out of position quite a few times.  So, yeah, I was playing okay, I was managing it.  And then I felt like I hit two good shots into 10 and walked off with a bogey there.  And sort of a bit of a mental mistake at the next, I sort of let that linger a bit, and made double.  But, no, the course is playing pretty tough this year, but I feel like today I, even though I didn't play my best, I should have shot something under par, I guess.  But going to go work on a couple things on the range tonight and hopefully straighten it out for tomorrow.   
 Q.  What are you going to work on?  
RORY MCILROY: Just my upper body's just sort of outracing the club and I'm sort of leaving the club face open and I just need to sort of square it up.  I hit a few better shots on the way in, so just try to get a few more of those feelings on the range and try and hit it better tomorrow.   
 Q.  What's the strong point about your game do you think at the moment?  
RORY MCILROY: Short game has been -- well around the green -- I didn't putt very well today, I didn't hole much, but chipping was pretty good, bunker play, that stuff was decent, but I just need to put myself in position a little bit more off the tee and if I can do that, then I've got chances to score.   
 Q.  Apologize for not asking this yesterday, but in the letter that Arnie sent you that you posted, he said just keep being yourself, don't change.  Do you understand the context he meant that, like did you ever, when you talked with him, did you ask him, is it your personality, your game, your demeanor, what was it that he wanted you to never change?  
RORY MCILROY: I don't know.   
 Q.  Your honesty.  
RORY MCILROY: Just myself, I guess.  I don't know.  I guess my demeanor, my aggressive play, I guess how I carry myself.  I let myself down a few times in the past, but everyone does, it's hard not to react to frustrating times or whatever.  But I guess I've tried, since that letter in 2010 to or 2011, to be myself.  I didn't really, I don't really want to be anyone else, you're born yourself, it would be an injustice to try and be anybody else.  So try to be me and be true to myself.  They were good words of wisdom and words to live by.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT