DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 18, 2016
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  When is the last time you teed off at that time?  
RORY McILROY: It's been a while actually, I'd say.  I didn't play great at the BMW Championship, the FedExCup, but obviously not what I'm used to here.  I played well here quite a few times in the past and yesterday was disappointing, but played a bit better today.  Hopefully maybe a couple more hours in bed tomorrow morning.   
 Q.  You saw yourself last night in the draw playing with Sully, did you look toward to that?  
RORY McILROY: Yeah, I did.  Any time I get to play with Sully, I really enjoy it.  We both played better today.  Had a good laugh out there and enjoyed it.  Really I knew after the second shot on 18, I needed to try and holed that putt to get out with him again tomorrow he finished well and it looks like we'll be split up tomorrow, but I had a good day out there.   
 Q.  Scoring different from yesterday; why?  
RORY McILROY: I held a few more putts today.  Mentally yesterday I was still on holiday I think.  I just wasn't really with it.  Wasn't at the races.  Yeah, I felt a bit better out there today, but yeah, just wasn't quite with it yesterday.   
 Q.  You're back in this championship and we know how low you can go.  Do you feel as though you're back in this thing?  
RORY McILROY: I have to wait and see what the guys do this afternoon.  I guess if I'm within sort of eight or nine shots going into the weekend, I still feel like I have a decent chance.  But it all depends on what Lee and the guys do this afternoon.  If I'm too far back, then I don't think I'll be able to make up that much ground.  But if I can keep improving each and every day, then I might not be too far away at the end of the week.   
 Q.  It's been a long season; is there a lot to be said, a week off between Sun City and here?  
RORY McILROY: Yeah, I think so.  I think -- I can't remember the last time I've done it where I've went straight from a tournament into this week.  I've always sort of tried to take the week off to be as fresh as possible.  I'm sure a few of the other guys are feeling it that have played all the way through:  Played China, played Turkey, played Sun City and now played here.  Honestly I probably felt too fresh yesterday.  As I said, I had two weeks off, and thought I was still on the beach.   
Yeah, I think there's a balance to be had.  But a week off in between tournaments wouldn't be a bad thing.   
 Q.  How does 62-62 sound?  
RORY McILROY: Yeah, I'd take that.  I'd take that and stand here on Sunday and probably have the trophy, I'd say.   
 Q.  That was a better bounce back?  
RORY McILROY: Yeah, a bit better.  I was 1-under through six and I said to JP, "At least we're four shots better than we were yesterday, so that's a positive."   
A bit better today.  Held some shots and held some putts and mentally was just a little bit sharper.   
 Q.  I was thinking, this must be the first time you've had to set an alarm clock to play in this event.  
RORY McILROY: Yeah, it's been a while.  Yeah, it has been a while.  But I'm an early riser, anyway, so that's not a bad thing.  And in fairness, I was looking forward to getting out this morning, because I felt the greens yesterday afternoon got very grainy and quite difficult to read, so better greens in the morning here where the grain isn't quite as strong.  Felt like I had a chance to hole some more putts and I was able to do that.   
 Q.  It was a round out of character for you around here yesterday.  Have you sort of analysed what happened?  
RORY McILROY: Yeah, I just mentally was very flat, very -- I don't know.  I'd say I was in holiday mode.  Had not quite switched on to what I needed to do.  Yeah, one of those things.  Just a bad day, and sort of turned it around today and hopefully I can improve again over the weekend.   
 Q.  Depends obviously what other guys do, but you're not actually that out of it, are you.  
RORY McILROY: No, not right now.  I mean, I'm five behind the lead right now, but you know, depending on what Lee and some of the guys that played well yesterday do, hoping for a bit of wind this afternoon and some difficult conditions.   
Yeah, I'd say if Lee doesn't get anywhere, or if one of the guys doesn't get past 10-under, for example, this afternoon, then I feel like I still have a bit of a chance going into the weekend.   
 Q.  And notwithstanding what other people might do, what would you aim to get out of what will be your final weekend of the year?  
RORY McILROY: Just a couple of good rounds of golf, a couple of good scores.  If I can finish off -- I've shot some really good scores here in the past, and if I can emulate that and shoot a couple really good ones over the weekend, I'd be happy enough going into the break.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT