WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
October 28, 2016
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What was the difference?  
RORY McILROY: I think I just held a few more putts today.  I think that was the difference.  Felt like I hit the ball very similar the first two days.  I was just able to capitalise on some of the good drives that I hit and being able to just hole a few more putts definitely makes a big difference at the end of the day.   
 Q.  How hard is it to win the FedExCup as you did, which didn't look too hard to win it, but how hard was it to have three weeks off, you have The Ryder Cup, big gig, three weeks, how hard is it to get rolling again?  
RORY McILROY: It's a little difficult, especially coming off -- yes, Ryder Cup was a disappointment, but two weeks of intense competition and your adrenaline is pumping and everything, it's sometimes hard to get yourself back up for it.   
.  But it's a WGC, and I think the thing about after the FedExCup for me was I needed to reassess my goals and be like, okay, I want to try and do the double here, I want to try to win The Race to Dubai, as well as what I've already achieved this year.  There's a lot to play for still for me and that's why I feel like it's pretty easy to get motivated for the next few weeks.   
 Q.  For a lot of players, Matsuyama up there at 13-under, and he's got you by six shots; in the mind of Rory McIlroy, is six shots many?  
RORY McILROY: Over 36 holes, no.  I've been able to come back from six behind with 18 to play, seven behind with 18 to play.  So over 36 holes, a lot of things can happen.   
Hideki is obviously playing very well.  Even the last couple of weeks, I think he won in Japan, finished second in Malaysia.  He's playing very well and he'll be tough to catch.  But I feel like from what I saw out there today, if I can keep that sort of golf going over the next two days, I should have a chance.   
 Q.  Just what the doctor ordered after a quiet start?  
RORY McILROY: It is.  I feel like I actually hit the ball pretty similarly the first two days.  I just held a few more putts today and was able to take advantage of some of the good drives that I was hitting.   
Yeah, 66 in these conditions is pretty good out there, and looks like from the way the leaderboard is, I'm going to need a couple more scores like that to have any chance.   
 Q.  66 in these conditions seems more than just pretty good, because that was windy and very tricky, wasn't it.  
RORY McILROY: It was, yeah.  It's windy and it's tricky and it's cold.  But the course is so soft, so it's very receptive and wherever the ball hits it, that's basically where it stops.   
So it makes it a little easier in that regard, but still, you've got to go out and play well.  It's going to be -- I think the wind is supposed to stay up over the next couple days.  It might get a little chillier and hopefully stay dry, but if the wind is like this, hopefully that bodes well.   
 Q.  In the build up, you said that there's bound to be a little bit of rust after a bit of time off, yet is that an indication of still finding some of the form that was there beforehand?  
RORY McILROY: Yeah, look, 66 is great.  I'm really happy with that.  But there's definitely some rust in the 71 yesterday.  I feel like I've shaken most of that off.  It would have been nice today to go around without a bogey.  I hit one into the hazard there on 16.   
But game feels really good, it really does.  As I said, hopefully I can have a good weekend here, and there's still a lot to play for for me this year and try to really give myself a chance to win another Race to Dubai.   
 Q.  And prospects for a good weekend are right there, when you look at that leaderboard even now.  
RORY McILROY: Yeah, it is, it's going to be a good weekend.  You have a lot of guys up there that are playing very well.  You have the defending champion and you have a bunch of other guys that are playing well, so it should be a good weekend.  I'm just happy to be in the mix.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT