TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 28, 2020
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Rory, how would you characterize this week?
RORY MCILROY: I don't know, frustrating in a way. Again, as I said yesterday, there's been some really good stuff in there, but then just some really stupid mistakes. Even today, like I got off to a good start and then bogeyed some easy holes. It's a little too up and down, a little bit roller coaster-ish, where it didn't really feel like that before we stopped. It was sort of quite consistent and sort of building sort of rounds very nicely, a lot of pars, a few birdies, not many mistakes. Just over the last few weeks I've made too many mistakes, too many bogeys, too many loose shots, and that was sort of what it was this week, as well.
Q. Is your next event the Memorial?
RORY MCILROY: I'm not sure. Probably Memorial, maybe the one before. But the way I'm feeling right now, I feel like a couple weeks off.
Q. When you do go home to tighten up some of those loose shots, what do you think you need to work on?
RORY MCILROY: Honestly, I think playing golf and just being a little sharper decision making. Decision making was terrible the last few days. Just some stupid shots and trying to take too much on at times. I think probably playing a little bit and just being a little more thoughtful on the course. Yeah, it's just sort of dumb mistakes in there that I don't usually make.
Q. Obviously you work out a ton when you're at home, but getting back into golf shape these three weeks, has that been tough, as well?
RORY MCILROY: No, physically. Mentally it's just getting back into that tournament routine, tournament mode, and that's why I sort of wanted a couple weeks off more than anything else. It's just the mental aspect of it, and especially when you are frustrated. I've been frustrated on the course the last three weeks, not being sort of in contention, and sort of sucks going off in the middle of the pack on a Sunday, knowing that you don't really have a chance.
Yeah, a couple weeks at home maybe, just reset and start again.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT