TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 23, 2016
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Rory, when they reversed the nines here, this became a very difficult start to the golf course and you fell behind early.
RORY McILROY: Yeah, second day in a row that I fell behind early.  Just nice that I was able to get it back a little bit again today.  Yeah, I mean, happy with how I battled back.  It could have been much worse than what it was, but at the same time, I felt like I left a few out there.  I think an evening on the range is required, trying to straighten it out a little and hope I don't make as many mistakes tomorrow.
Q. 3 under on the inward nine.  You spent extra time putting after the round on Thursday.  Going to hit some balls today?
RORY McILROY: Yeah, I'm going to hit some balls.  I felt like my putting was actually quite good.  I missed a couple, but I held some nice ones as well.  Yeah, I wasn't comfortable with my swing all day.  Even in the warmup this morning on the range, just didn't feel quite comfortable.  So I need to go work on a couple of things.
Q. Will this course give up a low score?
RORY McILROY: I think it will.  I think, if you're really in control of your golf ball and you hit fairways, you can shoot something low out there.  As you see, Dustin is 4 under today.  He was 4 under yesterday.  I feel like there is scores in the low to mid-60s out there.
Q. Rory, you're at 2 under total, and you're in the top three.  Does that kind of speak to how tough this course really is?
RORY McILROY: Yeah, it is.  It's playing tough this week.  I think the rough is just a little thicker.  A little longer than it has been in the past.  Yeah, I mean, even though I feel a little disappointed with how I played, but it looks like everyone else is feeling the same things out there.
Yeah, it's playing tough.  There's a couple of guys that are going low.  I feel like, if I can improve in a couple of areas over the weekend, I still have a chance.
Q. 7 of 14 fairways hit today, 8 of 14 yesterday.  Is that kind of what's been your game plan so far is just doing well off the tee?
RORY McILROY: Yeah, I've been digging driver a lot.  I think with some guys might lay back a little bit, but I feel like I can be aggressive off the tee, especially with how I have been driving it the last few weeks.  But when you miss fairways here, you make life really difficult for yourself.  So I need to start trying to hit a few more fairways and definitely hit more greens.  I didn't hit many greens today.  So I'm going to work on my iron play a little bit over on the range.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT