TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 22, 2016
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Good round of golf?
RORY McILROY: Good for next week.
Q. What didn't it have?
RORY McILROY: What didn't it have?  There wasn't a lot of 4s on the scorecard, that's for sure.  After 15 holes, I had -- after 14 holes, I had one 4 on the scorecard.  There was a lot of 3s and a lot of 5s.
Making seven birdies on that golf course is really good.  So at least there's a lot of good stuff in there.  The two -- you know, I started off the round with a three-putt, and then the two doubles just came from a couple of poor shots headed in the rough both times.  When you miss fairways here, you really -- you know you're going to struggle.  It's really tough out of the rough, and you lose all control of your ball.
But I came back well, obviously, with those four birdies on the front nine.  I'm sort of -- when I get it going, I can really run with it, and then when it goes the other way, I sort of struggle to get out of it a little bit.  But I think that's just the nature of the way my game is right now and sort of the way it has been for most of the year.  But I think I'm seeing more good in it, which is great, and I'm holing some putts, and I'm making birdies.  As long as I can continue to do that, try to just cut out some of the other stuff, I should be okay.
Q. What kind of mindset do you have to have to bounce back from consecutive doubles like that?
RORY McILROY: It's easy to bounce back -- well, not bounce back, but it's easy to sort of remind yourself there's such a long way to go.  72-hole golf tournaments, they're long.  A lot of things can happen.  A lot of holes to play.  I was 4 over through three when I won in Boston a couple of weeks ago.  So I just have to look back at that and realize how much can change over the course of a few days.
But the mindset is you try to steady the ship, set yourself a target, a number.  I mean, I thought, if I could be under par playing the last, maybe give myself a chance to shoot a couple under par, that would be great.  That's what I did.  I shot 2 under without birdieing the last hole.  So it was a decent effort.
Q. [ No microphone ]?
RORY McILROY: I actually thought with the way they switched the nines, it's going to be -- it's a bit of a slog because you've got your first par 5 on the 6th hole, and then you don't have the par 5 again until the 18th.  So you have to play a lot of good golf to make birdies.  Fortunately, I did.  I hit some fairways on the front nine and made some putts.
Yeah, I think it makes it -- I think the flow of the golf course has gotten more difficult.  Obviously, you're playing the same amount of holes, but the way you're playing the holes just, it makes the flow of the golf course a little harder, I think.  I think that's why you're not seeing so many low scores.  It's a tough golf course.  You've got to hit fairways.  But once you get it on the fairway, you have chances to score.
Q. [ No microphone ]?
RORY McILROY: We're sort of leaving it alone.  My game feels good in terms of my long game, hitting the ball well.  There's not much really to work on, just more shaping shots and just sort of working on skills more than sort of technical stuff.  So it's been good to have him here.  The work I did with Phil has been good as well.
As I keep saying, it's a work in progress, but I'm holing some putts, which is nice.  I'm missing some, but at least I know why I'm missing them now.  So at least I can go work on it and try to fix it for tomorrow.
Q. Is this a good golf tournament where 2 under is a good score?  Or would you prefer it where you could go out and shoot 7 or 8?
RORY McILROY: No, I like this.  I think you can shoot 7 or 8 on this golf course.  I don't think they've made it that hard that you can't go out and shoot something like that.  If you get it going, I think you can do that.  But I like it.  It's good.
I think last year 8 under par won the golf tournament.  It's always been around 8, 10 under par.  I think that's a good winning score most weeks.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT