THE RYDER CUP
September 30, 2016
Rory McIlroy
Thomas Pieters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What did you see from the crowd and the team?  
RORY McILROY: I did that little celebration at Medinah and it's one I'll continue to do because it's a hostile environment out here and I want them to know how much it means to us; and sort of silence them like that and say, You're welcome.  It's nice to do that sometimes.   
 Q.  You played both sessions.  How would you describe the day?  
THOMAS PIETERS: It's been a good day.  Although this morning didn't go our way, felt like I played pretty nicely and kept it going this afternoon.  It's been very special to get a point next to Rory and for him to finish like that was pretty cool just to watch.   
 Q.  I know you're a boxing fan; United States came out and put you on the canvas this morning but you came back and threw some blows, and now you go into the team room tonight, feels likes some momentum; am I wrong?  
RORY McILROY: Oh, definitely momentum.  We're still behind on the cards in boxing terms.  We got hit by some pretty good punches out there this morning, but we came back at them pretty well this afternoon.  Still a little bit to do, but momentum has definitely switched to our side.   
 Q.  Describe your emotions holing a putt like that to close out a match where they were coming back at you?  
RORY McILROY: For sure, we got up early and we sort of were trying to keep the pressure on them, keep the pressure on them.   
I left Thomas with a little bit of work to do around the middle of the round.  Sort of lost myself a little bit but thankfully redeemed myself.  Redeemed myself at the end.   
But all the credit has to go to this guy, Ryder Cup rookie, and he's taken to it like a natural.  He's been incredible all day.  Even the way he played in the morning in the foursomes and what he did out there this afternoon, he's a stud.   
 Q.  You've just won your Ryder Cup point in the company of Rory McIlroy, how special is this moment for you?  
THOMAS PIETERS: Playing with Rory, I think we did a really good job.  When I got into trouble, Rory hit some really good shots and vice versa.  It's been a great match.  And to hear the crowds, it's unbelievable.   
 Q.  I've never seen you this pumped up at a Ryder Cup, but this time you seem particularly so.  Why?  
RORY McILROY: It's pretty hostile out there, I must say.  So obviously you don't want to let that get to you.  But you just want to let them know when you hole a putt, how much it means to you.   
So happy to be alongside Thomas this afternoon and help him get his first Ryder Cup point on the board.   
 Q.  You had a tough morning match but the afternoon, you get the bullet; how good does it feel to have the monkey off the back?  
THOMAS PIETERS: Great.  To get a point, obviously with Rory is pretty special, and you know, just a great team effort in the afternoon to get three points after four lost points in the morning, it's pretty tough to come back.  We did a great job.   
 Q.  Ryder Cup and match play golf, it's all about momentum.  Swept this morning, but you go into the second day only 5-3 down.  How huge is that for Europe?  
RORY McILROY: It's massive.  It's momentum.  It feels like not quite as much as Medinah in 2012, but obviously getting back to within two today; all we wanted to do today was win the session, whether that was 3-1, whatever, and thankfully we were able to do that.   
Honestly I think we're going to go into the dressing room and overnight feeling a little bit better than they are.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT