TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 25, 2016
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
RORY McILROY: At that point, I think I was 2 behind Ryan and 3 behind Kevin, and I knew I needed something to happen.  I was really just trying -- I said to myself on the 15th tee, if I can finish with three 3s, I'll give myself a chance.  I didn't quite think the eagle was going to come as soon as it did.   
But when something like that happens, you have to make the most of it.  The holed shots from the fairway, it's part skill, but there's an epic part of luck in there as well, and I took advantage of it and made birdie at the last.  A lot of things had to go right for me today, and they did.  Everything fell into place.  Just thankfully, I won the tournament and the FedExCup too.   
 Q.  I thought you showed a lot of patience on good putts that did not go in.  Tell me about the eagle miss in the playoff.  Did you think that you had just putted away everything?  
RORY McILROY: I didn't feel like I putted away everything, but I definitely felt like it was such a missed opportunity.  I knew it was going to just get even more difficult from there.   
Yeah, I mean, when you have a 6-footer to win the TOUR Championship, the FedExCup, $11.5 million, and you feel like you did a good putt and it doesn't quite go in.  So I just had to regroup, stay focused, and try to give myself chances in the playoff, and thankfully I stayed patient enough to get it done.   
 Q.  Finally, I was watching you as Ryan putted his par putt on the 16th hole.  It went in.  I think it surprised all of us.  It looked like it didn't faze you whatsoever.  
RORY McILROY: No.  I think you expect -- I mean, I was -- I mentally was expecting to have to hole that putt to win.  So I don't -- I never expect anything else.  I never expect my opponents to hit bad shots or to miss putts.  I expect them to sort of do everything.  So it didn't faze me.   
It was nice just to roll one in on top of him and get this thing done.   
 Q.  What does it mean to be the FedExCup champ?  
RORY McILROY: It means an awful lot.  I've made it no secret that it's one of the last things I feel like I had left on my golfing CV, and I made it a big goal of mine especially after the summer had gone, to win it.  So to be here and to win the FedExCup, especially where I came in in the mid-30s somewhere, to play the way I have in the last few weeks to get it done is very special.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT