TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 24, 2016
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Was there something you did different last night that quick fixed it?  
RORY McILROY: I don't think it's a quick fix.  I think it's something I'm going to have to continue to work on past this week, but it's definitely something I needed to address.  Just got a little bit out of sync with my upper body and lower body, and it definitely helped.  It's nice to have Michael here this week for him to have a look at it and take some video and analyzing what I'm doing.   
That range session definitely helped last night.  It showed today.  I hit 17 of 18 greens and didn't make many mistakes.  So much better golf swing today, and I think that obviously is related to what I did last night on the range.   
 Q.  [ No microphone ]?  
RORY McILROY: I don't know.  It was maybe like an R.  It was basically mid irons.  I missed a lot of greens yesterday with sort of a 9 iron, 6 iron, 5 iron.  I was basically just trying to straighten it out.  Upper body was getting a little bit fast, a little bit ahead of my lower body.  And I was sort of lagging behind.  Out in front of me but lagging behind, which I hadn't done before.  So I was trying to sync everything up a little better.   
 Q.  Rory, can you talk about this round did to put you in position for tomorrow.  
RORY McILROY: Yeah, it's done a lot.  This week it's all about you limiting your mistakes.  I didn't do that the first two days, but I did that today.  I didn't have a bogey.  You don't need to make many birdies here to feel like you're working your way through the field.  Four birdies, no bogeys, that's going to work around here.   
It gets me closer to what I need to do.  I need to go out and play a very similar, if not better, round of golf tomorrow to have a chance.  I think, first and foremost, I just need to try and win this golf tournament, and whatever happens after that happens.  It would just be great to try to win the TOUR Championship, and if the chips fall my way, then so be it.   
 Q.  How would you describe your confidence levels right now?  
RORY McILROY: They're good.  I feel like I'm getting more and more comfortable with my putting each and every day and keep working on it and keep working on the same things and going through the processes on the course.  I feel good.  I feel like I can go out there tomorrow and shoot something even lower than I have today, and hopefully that will give me a chance.   
 Q.  [ No microphone ]?  
RORY McILROY: So if I win and tied second.  So I need to play well and need one of the other guys to tie him and see what happens.   
 Q.  Rory, congratulations on a really impressive round.  When you're out on the course in the heat of battle, just how aware are you of the overall FEDEX scenario, TOUR Championship scenario?  
RORY McILROY: I'm definitely a leaderboard watcher.  I always have been.  I like to see where I'm at in relation to everyone else.  So I was looking out there and watching.  I knew the only person I really need to watch this week is D.J.  I want to see where he is.   
It's funny, I said up there, I felt like every time he made a mistake, he bounced right back with a birdie.  That isn't even me looking at the coverage, it's me looking at the leaderboard.  I'm thinking, Yeah, I'm getting closer, and then he gets another birdie.  Everyone knows where they are.  You have to pass your time some way between shots.   
Golf, there's a lot of things you can think about between shots, so you have to look at what's going on.   
 Q.  I apologize for looking at next week.  Davis said yesterday in an interview he may have assembled the best team ever.  What's your reaction to that?  
RORY McILROY: Definitely assembled the best house course ever, that's for sure.  Look, it's a great team.  They have a lot of very talented players in there.  They're obviously quite confident.  So you know what, it's up to us to go there and try to upset the odds.   
 Q.  Is that most important to you?  
RORY McILROY: I think so.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT