THE 145TH OPEN
July 15, 2016
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Another hard day's work, Rory.  Tell me about it.
RORY McILROY: Yeah, honestly, I'm quite happy with my two rounds of golf.  I feel like I've played very well.  I kept it together in the conditions quite well.  On the back nine I had a bit of a bad run around the turn, you know, missed two short putts in a row on 9 and 10.  But held it together nicely coming in, and played the last five holes at 1-under par.  So anything around even par right there this afternoon was a decent score.
It's the Open Championship.  Some draws go your way and some draws don't.  The last Open I played, I got the good end of the draw and good things happened that week.  Then this year it's not so much.  But I just said out there, I'm not going to let being on the wrong side ruin my mood or ruin my week.  I feel like I've played very well and that gives me optimism going into the weekend.  And I played the front nine well especially.  So if I can get off to a similar start tomorrow and get a little closer to the leaders, play the back nine a little better, you never know.
Q. You've won two majors, you're 8 back with 36 holes, what's possible?
RORY McILROY: It really depends what the conditions are like.  I think it's going to be drier tomorrow, but maybe the same amount of wind.  Depending on what direction it comes from, again, you've seen guys shoot 4, 5, 6-under par on the front nine.  So if I can do that and get closer to the leaders.  The back nine, no matter what wind you get, is going to be very difficult.  So, again, just try to get off to a fast start.
But I feel like it's possible.  There are 36 holes to go.  Obviously the guys at the top of the leaderboard are playing very well.  I had a chance to watch Phil yesterday afternoon and this morning, and it's the best I've seen him play in a long, long time.  His swing's good.  He's got his ball flight under control.  He seems like he's putting well.  And obviously Henrik and the guys that are up there as well, they're going to be tough to beat.  But I've given people head starts before and been able to win, and I'm just going to try to draw on those memories.
Q. What were some of the crazier shots out there?
RORY McILROY: I think just the 13th hole in general.  I hit a drive that I thought was 20 yards left of the fairway and I got up there and it was in the middle of the fairway just because it went about 230.  That's what I was trying for (laughter), hit it in the middle of the fairway.
Yeah, the 13th hole, I think everyone had that spell of maybe half an hour where it was just brutal.  So for us it was the 13th hole.  Made a 5 and it was a good par and walked on (laughing), a par in the conditions.  But it was tough.  That back nine was well, even I had a bit of moisture on my club face on 18, and I've never hit a drive with a ball flight like it.  It just sort of wobbled in the air and dropped.
It was tough.  It was tough to control your ball.  But I felt if you could put it on the fairway, the greens are big enough on the back nine, big enough targets that you could put it on the green and two-putt and make pars, and that's what I tried to do.
Q. Talking about Phil, the leaders are still very much (inaudible).
RORY McILROY: Yeah, I mean, look, I'm eight shots back.  I'm trying to be as optimistic as I can, I guess.  I can draw on memories of being in similar positions going into weekends and having won.  But this is a little different.  It's the Open Championship and the conditions are a little tougher.
But, yeah, I'm optimistic.  I feel like I've played well.  I think that's the great thing.  It's not as if I haven't played well.  I'm in this position of I've played very well, so I'm happy with that.
Q. What memories in particular do you have of coming back from that many shots back?
RORY McILROY: Um, 36 holes, yeah, Wells Fargo way back when, five years ago, six years ago, six years ago.  Wentworth a couple years ago, 2014, I was 7 back playing the final round.  Go back to the last major I won, I was 3 back standing on the 10th tee.  So I've been able to turn deficits into wins.  But this is a bit of a difference.  It's the Open Championship in these conditions.  So just trying to stay as optimistic as I can.
Q. Will you be aggressive tomorrow without being too aggressive?
RORY McILROY: Yeah, I feel like I've been very aggressive on the front nine.  I think I've probably hit more drivers on the front nine than most guys.  And that's worked out well for me.  I feel like it's the strongest club in my bag.  Anytime I can get the driver in my hands, I should do it.  Depending on what way the wind is tomorrow, you know, you could hit driver on 1 and get it close to the green, driver on 2, driver on 3.  I've driven it just under the green on 7 both days and made birdies there, and the two par-5s.  So you can be aggressive on the front nine.
Then on the back nine obviously it's a different story.  You're just trying to put it in play, put it on the green and make pars.  If you can pick up a birdie or two along the way, that's great.
Q. (Inaudible) Hoylake on Saturday morning.  Would you like to see that permanently (inaudible) in the draw a little bit?
RORY McILROY: I was probably saying that to myself on the 13th today.  But golf has traditions, and I think they made a good call at Hoylake because I remember the press conference, as soon as we started the heavens opened.  But, it's one of the great things about The Open.  The first guys tee off at 6:30 in the morning, and the last guys tee off at 4:30, it's pretty cool.  It's the only tournament that we do it at.  But today I wouldn't have minded a two-tee start.  But, look, it's the Open Championship and it's tradition, and I respect that.
Q. Do you take some sort of joy in playing in these conditions?
RORY McILROY: Yeah, I mean, I think I've embraced the challenge of it more and more over the years.  I used to hate playing in those conditions.  I really did.  I used to really not like them, but I've found a way to get myself around the course and be as positive as I possibly can.
But, yeah, no one enjoys it.  But there's some sort of challenge to it.  I've made it a goal of mine to play better in bad conditions, and I feel like I've gotten a little bit better at it.  And that round out there today was probably one of the better rounds I've played in bad conditions.
Q. Can you also draw on memories of summers in Northern Ireland with this weather?
RORY McILROY: I was trying to get out of Northern Ireland in the summer to play somewhere else.  But, yeah, Northern Ireland summers are way better than this.
Q. Yeah?
RORY McILROY: (Laughing) but, no, look, I grew up playing in it, but over the last few years being based in the States for 75% of my time, you get used to the conditions over there and hitting it through the air.  This is a bit different.  But it's a challenge and it's The Open and you expect it, and that's part of the fun about it, I guess, if you can call it fun.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT