100TH OPEN DE FRANCE
July 3, 2016
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








RORY McILROY: It's been good.  The way I've felt with my golf game and my swing, and working on a few things; to finish third on my own isn't too bad I guess.  I guess it shows that I'm doing some things right.
I wish I just could have put a bit of pressure on Thongchai earlier today.  I didn't get off to the fastest of starts, but look, he's played great golf and fully deserves to win.  To play without a bogey -- I don't know what he's going to do at the last, but to play four birdies and no bogeys out there today with the lead is impressive play.
This week's been good.  I know what I need to work on going forward, and hopefully I can get that fixed and firing on all cylinders going into the Open.
Q. Would I be right to presume that amongst the positives is the way that you've scrambled and held things together in tough conditions.
RORY McILROY: Yeah, I think so.  I think this part of my game is pretty good, and there has been times this week where I've needed to scramble and get it up-and-down.
And even today, I didn't really hit it as good as I have done in periods this week.  But I was able to get it up-and-down when I needed to, and held a couple of putts.
I felt like I've putted okay this week.  Today nothing really dropped for me, but that part of my game feels good going into the Open.
I just need to work on a few of the loose shoots I've been hitting and hopefully I'll be comfortable in ten days' time teeing it up at Troon.
Q. And how useful is Le Golf National for that kind of preparation?
RORY McILROY: I think more the conditions this week, with it being a little windy.  It obviously hasn't been that warm.  Just to get the feeling; there's some shots out there that do feel quite linksy, even though it has been soft this week.
It's been good preparation.  It will be ten days now of links golf and working on my swing and hopefully that's good preparation, as well, heading into Troon.
Q. What are those plans for those next ten days?
RORY McILROY: Just a lot of work on my game.  I'm going to go over to see Troon later on next week.  Get a couple of days around there, which will be nice, get to see it.
Apart from that, just a lot of time on the range with Michael and try to figure out how things are going and just try to keep improving and hopefully I can feel even better going into Troon than I did here.
Q. How did you find the French public this week?
RORY McILROY: It's fantastic.  I think the crowds and the support this week has been unbelievable.  I played The French Open five years ago and the crowds weren't like this.
To see how far the game has come, and obviously with The Ryder Cup coming in two years' time, people seem very enthusiastic about it.  It was a pleasure to play in front of everyone this week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT