100TH OPEN DE FRANCE
July 3, 2016
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You came into the week not really knowing what to expect, four or five things that you're working on in your swing.  How do you reflect on The French Open?  
RORY McILROY: It's been a good week, just to see where I'm at with my game.  There was signs that it was really good and heading in the right direction, and then today, again, there was sometimes that it was good.   
But there was a few swings I made on the back nine that just I need to sort of work on.  I was getting quite steep with my irons, which has been a problem anyway.  So I just need to try to work on that going forward.   
It's been a good week.  The way I've felt out there and to finish third on my own, it's been a decent week in that regard.   
 Q.  Ten days to prepare for The Open, obviously going to spend much of that time practising; pretty confident you can get it firing on all cylinders by the time you get there?  
RORY McILROY: I hope so.  I've got ten days until The Open starts.  I'm going to be working every day to try to get better and play a bit of links golf and work on the shots that I'll need for Troon, as well.   
Yeah, I'm confident where I'm at, and even though this week it didn't feel that good, I'm obviously doing some things right.  So go forward and keep working hard and hopefully I'll be ready for Troon.   
 Q.  You missed out on the chance to defend your Open Championship last year with injury obviously.  This time around, how excited to be going to Troon; is it a course that you like?  
RORY McILROY: I don't really know much about it.  I haven't played Troon.  I'm actually going to go over this week for a couple of days and sort of figure it out and see what I need to do there.   
It was really disappointing, especially at St. Andrews last year, not to be able to defend.  The last time I played The Open I won it, so good memories, and hopefully I can play similar to the way I did in Liverpool and give myself a chance.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT