WGC DELL MATCH PLAY
March 27, 2016
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








RORY McILROY: No, my game feels in really good shape.  It was a really good match out there.  The quality of the match was really good.  I think the only mistake between us was made on the second hole when Jason went into the hazard.  Apart from that, there were no bogeys, and a few birdies, especially in tricky conditions.
So just, if I look back on the match, the 11th, 12th and 13th hole, that sort of started the back nine, if I hadn't made the putt on 11 and either birdied 12 or 13, which are two very birdieable holes, that was really the big swing in the match.  2-down and five to play, and I played the last five holes pretty well.
But Jason just didn't give me anything.  He played very solid.  Just came up a little short.
Q. What's the mental challenge now?
RORY McILROY: I want to finish the week off on a positive note.  So go out there and play as hard as I can, try and get a win, finishing third is better than finishing 4th.  Go out there and try my best and try to get the job done, and try to get it done as quickly as possible so I can get on a plane and get home to my own bed tonight.
Q. (Inaudible.)
RORY McILROY: Obviously you lose, and it's not very nice.  Going to be standing here a little bit pissed off.  But I have to regroup and get back out there and play well.
I'm not angry with my game, at all.  I'm just angry that I didn't do more in the match and convert my chances when I could have.  Disappointed with the outcome, but I feel like where my game is I'm happy with that.
Q. You've been close to really battling on the back nine quite a few of the days.
RORY McILROY: Yeah, I've played the back nine there again today pretty well.  I think I played it in a couple under par.
Jason played it in 4-under par, I guess.  So it's hard to beat that.  It's hard to beat that, especially when you go 2-down with five to play, especially when the guy you're playing isn't really making any mistakes.  I've been forced to battle and I feel like I battled well.  I played the back nine well and I played well when I needed to.  There is a lot of positives to take from this week.
Q. You seem to have a couple of good breaks on the last two, 17 and then 18?
RORY McILROY: I wouldn't say -- the ball on 17 never looked like it was going in the hazard.  We both had good tee shots on 18, but he did well to make four.  If anything, I would have liked to have that second shot back.  Instead of missing it left, miss it right and at least give myself a putt for birdie.
Q. You were obviously scrambling around except giving yourself a chance, obviously you're not happy to convert?
RORY McILROY: Again, I feel like there's no problem with my game.  I need to go out there and try to win this afternoon, and as I said, just finish the week on a positive note.  I'll be pretty happy heading into a week off and getting ready for Augusta.
Q. Will you go to Augusta this week?
RORY McILROY: No.
Q. (Inaudible.)
RORY McILROY: A little bit, you go and hit it up beside that tent, where you drop it is gnarly grass.  But that's how it goes sometimes.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT