THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 13, 2016
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Open up with some quick thoughts about your day.  
RORY MCILROY: Yeah, look, I knew that the course was going to play much easier than it did yesterday afternoon.  This course really does play so much differently from morning to afternoon.  You have seen what the guys did yesterday morning, you've seen what a few of the guys did this morning, you can almost feel it as the day goes on, as your round progresses in the morning.   
Like I felt the greens getting a little firmer, the wind gets up a little bit, so you have to take advantage of your tee time in the morning.  And thankfully I was able to do that today with a low one.   
But it could have been a couple lower, but it's still, it's a great round and it moves me up the leaderboard and hopefully I'm just not too far away going into the weekend.   
 Q.  Could you talk about first the eagle putt on 16 and what happened on the approach shot at No. 9.  
RORY MCILROY: Yeah, 16 was more like I wasn't going anywhere near the water.  I hit it in the water yesterday.  So I hit it pin high left and it's just one of those putts where you feed it down the hill and try and get it within three or four feet and make your birdie and move on.  And to see it drop was a bonus, it was nice.   
And then on 9, any time I went for the ninth green in two here I've either hit the trees in the left or I've hit it sort of out to the right into those grassy mounds that Pete Dye loves.  And I've never -- it's just -- it has never really worked out for me when I went for the green.   
So I sort of talked myself out of it on the fairway.  And I laid up and thought, I'll take my chances from inside a hundred yards from the fairway.  And it was a tough, if anything, I might have left myself a little bit too close.  It was a tough shot with it being downwind and the pin so tight.  I was trying to get really sort of cute with it, I guess, and I just hit it too easy.   
 Q.  How much, if at all, was the course record in your head the last couple holes?  
RORY MCILROY: Not really.  A little bit.  Look, you know that a few guys have shot 63 here, it would have been nice to shoot 62.  And I knew that playing the last that -- so that was really the dilemma, what's the best way, best chance for me to make birdie here?  Is it by going for the green and -- I guess maybe if I had have -- I'm carrying a 2-iron this week instead of my usual 5-wood.  Maybe if I had the 5-wood in the bag, I might have went for it, because at least I could have got a little bit more height.  But, yeah, I was thinking about it, I wanted to make birdie and shoot 62.  There's no doubt about that.   
 Q.  Were you stunned that the putt on 6 didn't fall?  
RORY MCILROY: Yeah, that was one that sort of got away.  I felt like I hit, I really got -- I got lucky with my second shot.  So it was, yeah, it would have been nice.   
But I made one on the 7th straight after, so I'm not going to complain too much about that.  But yeah, there was, I feel like I left a couple out there.   
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
RORY MCILROY: Disappointment.  I'm frustrated.  It should have been a couple better.  Instead of being two behind the lead, I feel like I should be tied for the lead.   
So, yeah, I'm disappointed, but there's still two more days to go.  But that's the nice thing, I'm in a good position heading into the weekend, but it really depends on what the guys do this afternoon, because there's so many guys that went low and the course will play a little bit tougher this afternoon, but hopefully I'm still not too far behind going into the weekend.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT