WGC DELL MATCH PLAY
March 25, 2016
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You were down early, but you were able to fight back and win in extra holes.  This one went pretty long.  How were you able to eventually close this out?
RORY McILROY: I've played the back nine so well this week.  Even if it is tight on the back nine, I feel like the way the holes are down near the water, it plays into my hand.  The ball striker usually comes out on top.  I played those holes pretty well.
I got my first lead in the match after 15, giving that back on 16.  I just stayed really patient and started to hit some really solid shots.  At the end of the day, it was a mistake of Kevin that gave me the match.  I just hung in there tough and just excited to get into the weekend.
Q. You move to Saturday morning in what may be the most intriguing match with you and Zach Johnson.  What are you expecting?
RORY McILROY: I've played with Zach a little bit in the Ryder Cup, and he's a great competitor.  This golf course sets up perfectly for Zach, if he can get the ball in play.  He's going to be very tough to beat, I know that.  I'm going to have to be on my game.  Hopefully I am.
Q. (Inaudible)?
RORY McILROY: I knew going out Kevin was going to be a tough competitor.  I've played against him in this tournament before.  I managed to get him on the last.  I had to go further than that today to get through.  I felt like I played well.  I got off to a bit of a slow start.
Once I made the birdie on 6, things started to come together for me.  He hung tough as well.  He played really well.  Wasn't until the 15 hole that I had my first lead in the match, and gave that back the next hole.  Hit my drive not quite in the water, but in the hazard and unplayable.  He still needed to make birdie to win that hole.
The last couple of holes, I had opportunities, I felt like I played them well.  At the end of the day, it was a mistake for Kevin that cost him the match.  Thankful to get through and looking forward to tomorrow.
Q. We have been asking you all week about the new format and sudden death.  I guess you wanted to give it a shot early on?
RORY McILROY: It reminds me of last year, the exact same way I got through.  Last year I halved with Billy Horschel, we went extra holes and I was able to beat him on the second extra hole.  Same again this year.  Hopefully that's a good omen going into the weekend.
Q. Are you getting used to the different putting grip?
RORY McILROY: It is, yeah.  I keep saying there's a reason that I switched.  The putting feels really good.  Obviously knocked in a couple long ones out there.  It's very solid and really happy with that.  It's a great asset to have in match play.  Obviously it's a great asset going to Augusta.
Q. Your confidence has grown since Honda?
RORY McILROY: It really has.  I think that has to do with the change I've made.  I've started to work a little bit harder on it, as well.  Putting has started to become fun again.  When you see putts drop and you're holing putts on the course, I'm looking forward to getting onto the putting green and doing my drills because I can see improvement.  Any time you see that, it gives you encouragement to keep doing it.
Q. You've still got your streak going.  Zach is one of the guys this course kind of suits.  Expectations heading into tomorrow?
RORY McILROY: This is a golf course that sets up so well for Zach.  It's a real precision type of golf course.  If Zach gets it in the fairway, he's going to have as good a chance as anyone around here.  I'm going to have to play really well tomorrow and respond to some of the things he does because most likely I'll be playing second into most of the greens.  It really depends on how I respond to the good shots he hits.  Hopefully I can make some good ones.  I think it will be a really good match.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT