WGC DELL MATCH PLAY
March 25, 2016
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How tough was that match?  
RORY McILROY: It was.  It was tough.  All three of my matches this week have been pretty tough.  Kevin was playing pretty well.  I knew coming in that Kevin had played a couple really solid games.  I knew I needed to play well.   
I didn't get off to a best of starts again.  Found my rhythm in the middle of the round, started to make some birdies and hit some good shots when I needed to.   
Had a couple opportunities to maybe finish him in regulation and had another opportunity on the first extra hole.  It took a mistake from him to get me over the line.  Obviously that's got me into the weekend.   
 Q.  You know match play with the Ryder Cup as far as this format.  You are playing Zach Johnson tomorrow.  What do you think it's going to be like tomorrow?  
RORY McILROY: This is a golf course that sets up perfectly for Zach.  It's his sort of golf course.  Very much have much a precision course and that's his game.  If he can get it in play, he's going to be very tough to beat.   
I feel like I'm playing well.  I've had some good battles with the team format with Zach over the years in the Ryder Cup, so tomorrow should be a good one.   
 Q.  You are into the round of 16 as defending champion?  
RORY McILROY: It's nice to be in for the weekend.  Similar to what happened last year, I had to go extra holes with Billy Horschel to get into the weekend and did the same thing.  Just nice to be through.  I feel like my game has gotten a little bit as the day's went on.  I know I will have to play very well again tomorrow to try and beat Zach.   
 Q.  I walked with you at Harding Park.  It seemed like you were always on the cusp at Harding Park.  Here you are again, you must have confidence that you've done this before.  
RORY McILROY: Exactly.  Any time I go into the back nine, even today, I was dying after ten holes but I knew that I'd played the back nine well this week.  I had done well.  Any time the match goes the distance, I feel like I have a better chance.  Thankfully, I was able to get it done again today.   
 Q.  Sigh of relief to be moving on?  
RORY McILROY: It is a sigh of relief.  Nice to get through and nice to be here for the weekend.   
My match play record has been pretty good over the last couple of years.  It was nice to get another win and be here for the last 16.  I have got a tough opponent in Zach Johnson tomorrow.  I know I have to play very, very well.  Just delighted to get through.   
 Q.  Is the mindset, does tomorrow come back with a different psychology to it now that you are out of pool play?  
RORY McILROY: Not really.  Today it was either do or die.  You have to win or you go home.  Mindset doesn't change tomorrow for me.  I knew I needed to win today.  I have done that to advance.  Same thing tomorrow.  I need to win tomorrow morning to get through the afternoon and that's what I'll be trying to do.   
 Q.  This one was pretty back and forth.  It looked like you guys discussed picking up on 18?  
RORY McILROY: Zach offered or -- sorry, Kevin offered.  Thinking of my next opponent already.  Kevin offered and I politely declined.  I'm pretty confident over those and I wanted to put as much pressure on him.   
We did good on 12, but when it's that tight and it's on the last hole, I would rather -- even if he did hole his putt before me, I would rather hole the putt and at least gives you a little momentum going into the playoff.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT