ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 17, 2016
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
RORY MCILROY: I felt like I was hitting it aggressively, making good swings in my short game and putting.  It was a big surprise out there, today to be fair.   
 Q.  What kind of a jolt is that early?  
RORY MCILROY: It's tough.  With the way the wind blows and the tee was up a little bit I was probably -- you know, yesterday the hole that I definitely didn't play like that.   
I was playing it a lot different and hitting a different club off the tee.  But, just I mean you make double that's fine, it's 71 holes left in the golf tournament, you try to regroup and made a good decent par on 3 and then -- yeah, really good par on 3 and could never really get into the rhythm or the grind at all.   
I kept missing shots left and I tried to correct it too much and then I started missing them right.  I need to go on to the range and work on it a little bit and see if I can figure it out.   
 Q.  Put it down to one of those days?  
RORY MCILROY: Yeah.  Felt like I grinded okay there and I scrambled a good about it.  I had some good things on the back-9.  It probably could have been a few worse.  I end up shooting this.  I get some good work done on the range tonight and come out tomorrow and play a good round of golf to get myself into the red numbers, at least I'll be here for the weekend, I can make a charge.   
 Q.  Can you walk us through the decision to go for it on 16 and how big that was?  
RORY MCILROY: Only 212 to the front of the green.  I'm starting at the right hand bunker, 20, 25 yards right of the pin.  If it turns it turns, great.  If it doesn't I'll either be in the front bunker and have a lot of room to work for my up and down for birdie.  The thing started on a good line.  Turned so much.  Obviously --   
 Q.  What did you hit?  
RORY MCILROY: 4-iron.  I get so much under it and went with the slope.  I haven't hit a shot like that in a long time.  Again, it's a matter of getting on the range and working on it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT