OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 7, 2016
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Thoughts on the week then?
RORY McILROY: It was okay I guess.  Sort of got it going today a little bit better and played the front nine better.  Played nicely for the most part but disappointed about 18.  Made a wrong decision off the tee not hitting driver.
But all in all, it was a decent weekend and decent way to play the last 27 holes, anyway.  So yeah, game feels in decent shape.  Still a few things to work on.  Struggling with the driver a little bit, so just want to try and work on that.  Got a week off to work on those things and get ready for L.A. in a couple week's time.
Even up until I birdied 13 and 14 and 15, and I thought if I could finish, say, three, three, three, I would have a good chance and didn't do that.  Birdied 17 and really wanted to at least give myself a chance for a three at the last and not making birdie was a bit disappointing.  I felt like it was on for sure, but just didn't quite do enough.
Q. What's the strong points in your game?
RORY McILROY: Wedge play, short game, like around the greens has been good.  So I think those things, even if I'm not hitting it as well as I'd like, those things are sort of saving me a little bit.  So that's the good stuff, and iron play is pretty solid.  Working on my driving and my putting.  If everything else can stay where it is, I feel like I should get a good run in the States.
Q. Could have birdied five in a row --
RORY McILROY: Yeah, I had a good chance on two and a decent chance on three.  Sort of a week of what could have been, I guess.
Q. Looking forward to getting back home -- looking forward in some ways to getting back on the PGA TOUR?
RORY McILROY: I'm just looking forward to spending a week in my own bed to be honest.  That will be nice for a start.  It will be good, starting over there with three really good, tough events with Riviera, Honda and Doral.  The scoring is relatively tough in those three tournaments, so I'm looking forward to getting into that.
Obviously then it's the run up to Augusta, so it's an exciting part of the golf season ahead.
Q. Looking ahead to the Olympics, the emergence of the Zika virus, is that affecting your thoughts and preparations for the Olympics?
RORY McILROY: Obviously I don't want to get it.  I haven't really paid much attention to it.  I mean, to be honest, I just sort of go on a week-to-week basis.  I haven't really thought about the Olympics too much.
Q. Players aren't really talking about it?
RORY McILROY: Not really talking about the Olympics in general.  To be honest, it's such a busy golf season, it's so far away.
Q. Going back to America, is the Masters firmly in view?
RORY McILROY: Definitely, as I said, it's been nice to shake the rust off these last couple of weeks.  It's a good -- it gives me a good understanding of what I need to do going into the next few weeks.  It's been a real helpful exercise in that way, and it would have been nice to come away with a win.  But a couple of solid performances and we'll see where I finish at the end of the day.  But I still feel like there's a lot to work on going into the next few weeks and hopefully I can put some good work in next week and feel sharp going into Riviera.
Q. Are you glad you've added a couple extra events?
RORY McILROY: Definitely, yeah, I'm really happy with the schedule I've got.  Looking forward to getting into a good run of golf.  It will be nice.
Q. How do you reflect on this week then?
RORY McILROY: Yeah, it's sort of a week of what could have been.  There was a lot of really good golf in there.  I played a lot of great shots and made a lot of birdies, but just made a few too many mistakes, as well.  I'll rue the two front nines that I played on Friday and Saturday.  Played the combined front nine 5-over par there and if I had not of done that, things could have been different.
But encouraged with the good golf that I've played.  It's been good because I know what I need to work on over the next few weeks.  Taking the positives from it but obviously it could have been better.
Q. You did say that you would be a long shot into the final round, but you gave it your best shot, didn't you?
RORY McILROY: I played the front nine much better, which I was delighted about.  Started the back nine well.  I felt even after I birdied 15, that those three holes coming up, 16, 17, 18, if I could finish with three threes, you never know what can happen.  Wasn't able to quite do that.  I was only able to manage one birdie over the last three.
Still, I played good golf for the most part over the weekend, and I'm happy about that.  Looking forward to this big run of golf that we've got coming up in the next few weeks.
Q. It is a big run of golf.  So what's the plans from here on in?
RORY McILROY: Flying to Florida tonight.  I'll have a week at home, which will be nice in my own bed, a week to work on my game a little bit and get ready for the Northern Trust in L.A. the week after next, and then I think I'm playing five events in a six-week stretch, so it's a busy run of golf coming up, but I'm looking forward to it.
Q. You said the beginning of the fourth round, a long shot away, but still satisfied with your round four?
RORY McILROY: Yeah, I played a good round of golf.  65 around here is always good.  I just left myself too much to do after the first few days.  So happy with how I played today, but still feel like there's a little bit to work on going into my next few events.
Q. Pretty much a home course for you, been playing out here for a long time.  How different has the tournament evolved to this stage?
RORY McILROY: It's good.  I've been coming here since 2006, and it's definitely changed a lot.  But it's been fantastic.  The people here have always been so nice to me and given me opportunities to play in my younger days.  To be able to win this tournament a couple of times, I've got great memories from this golf course and this place, and I'm always delighted to come back.
Q. Just to comment on the amount of support you've been getting, you have some support with the XLine?
RORY McILROY: Yeah, it's been great.  Any time I come to Dubai, I really enjoy my week.  I've been coming here awhile, so I've developed a lot of friendships along the way and even still trying out new things, as you said, the XLine here.  Had an afternoon off on Tuesday and went and tried that and it was great fun.  We really enjoyed that.  Obviously it's great to come here, great weather, plenty of golf, but also some things to do off the course, as well.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT