OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 5, 2016
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Your thoughts on a tidy finish to make sure a decent day?
RORY McILROY: Yeah, I guess my score wasn't -- like I struggled in the wind a little bit and didn't get off to the best of starts again.  I didn't get off to a great start yesterday and got off to another slow one today, being 2-over through four on this golf course when you have a couple of good birdie chances there wasn't great.
The middle of the round was tough.  There was a few holes that were playing really tough, and I struggled on those, sort of like 6, 7, 8, 9.  But as you said, I bounced back well and persevered and got something out of the round in the end.  It never looked like I was going to shoot better than over par, but to shoot par is not bad, and I just need to make sure I get off to a fast start tomorrow.
Q. Do you ever contemplate that possibility of actually missing a cut at one of your favourite events?
RORY McILROY: Oh, yeah.  I was definitely thinking about it, especially over the putt on 12.  I bogeyed 11 and had a 6-footer for par on 12, and if I missed that, 1-over for the tournament, would have been a long way back from there.  Sort of to make that putt and play the next six holes at 4-under par was a nice way to finish.
Q. Five strokes over a weekend, not insurmountable?
RORY McILROY: No, not at all.  There's a lot of players between myself and the lead but at the same time, I've come back from bigger deficits than this, and this is one of my favourite places.  As I said, if I can get off to a faster start tomorrow, you never know, and I'll get better conditions, as well.  I'll be out a little earlier.  The greens and the course in general got very firm and very fast out there, so hopefully I can get out in the morning and post a good score.
Q. Tough grind out there all day, wasn't it?
RORY McILROY: I didn't have my best stuff with me and struggled at the start of the round and around the middle of the round.  I needed something just to, first and foremost, be here for the weekend.  Then birdieing the last three holes, definitely gives me a little bit of momentum going into the weekend.
I felt like I played some decent golf out there.  I missed a few short putts.  Just wasn't really committing to the lines I was picking.  A couple of tentative putts, a couple of loose shots.  Overall a decent finish.  If I can get off to a decent start tomorrow, you never know.
Q. Only five back of the leaders, you mentioned the greens, seemed as the day went on they get a little browner and tougher to gauge both the speed and the line.  Tell me what the difficulties were out there and when it comes to the greens.
RORY McILROY: Yeah, they got a lot firmer and faster as the day went on, as you said and I think the wind played a little bit of a factor, as well.  The wind was affecting putts sometimes.  It was tough.
The course got firm and it got fast, and you know, I'm in a way thankful that I'm not going to be out in one of the last pairings tomorrow, because I feel like I'll get some of the better conditions and the course will be a little more receptive, and at least be able to get the ball pretty close to the hole and give yourself chances.
Because even out there, I felt like I hit a good shot on 15, for example, and just four short of the pin and goes over the back of the green.  We are not really used to seeing that this year.  It's playing different, and we just have to adjust.  Like I said, a little softer conditions tomorrow, might be able to post a score.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT