DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 21, 2015
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. That's the 12th time you've broken 68 here, and the lowest score you've ever shot, 65, but I sense frustration.  You hit the ball beautifully and could have been so much better.
RORY McILROY: Yeah, it could have been.  I guess you can't really walk off this golf course, especially in these conditions, and shoot 7-under and not feel good about yourself.  But at the same time, I feel like it could have been a lot better.
The good thing is, there's still one round of golf left.  If it had of been the final day, I'd be kicking myself with some of the chances I missed.  Playing lovely, so bodes well for tomorrow; if I can just keep this up and apply a bit of pressure early on, then hopefully keep it going.  But it's exactly where I want to be, in contention going into Sunday, so it's all good.
Q. You said on the way around that you felt you steered it a little bit, and today you said, right, come on; free up and go for it.  Was that the difference in your ball-striking?  Because you stuck the ball absolutely beautiful.
RORY McILROY: Yeah, I feel like my warmup sessions on the range the first two days were much better than how I hit it on the golf course.  And today, I was sort of -- yeah, I was playing with a little more freedom and a little more trust in myself, because I'm hitting all these shots on the range, there's no reason why I can't do that on the range and not do it on the golf course.
Today, you saw what I have been doing on the range and was able to bring it to the golf course for the most part and hopefully I can do the same tomorrow.
Q. The two times you've won The Race to Dubai, you've had it wrapped up before the final event, and you did have it on the line when you played against Lee Westwood in 2009 and he took it from you; what's your thought on tomorrow with both agendas going on?
RORY McILROY: I'm more than likely going to be in the final group.  So it's just a matter of trying to focus on myself, try and win the golf tournament, and that's all I can do.  Set myself a target out there and go for it, and I know if I do that, again, as I said, hopefully everything will work out the right way.
Q. With all that you've achieved in the game, you don't need to win The Race to Dubai or this tournament.  How much do you want to?
RORY McILROY: I want to.  It's the only thing left this year.  It's my last round of the year, last round of the season, and I want to make the most of it.  Would have been nicer to be a shot better going into the last round, but I've got one more round to go out and give it my all.
Yeah, I'd love to finishing the year on a high and win The Race to Dubai and I guess more importantly, win this tournament.  Another tournament win, that's what I really want.
Q. Leaving aside the putt at the last, otherwise very, very satisfying day, I would have thought, particularly with conditions not the easiest.
RORY McILROY: Yeah, I did, I played fantastically well.  I could have been 5-under through five easily.  I hit the ball beautifully.
Yeah, everything was just firing today and that's why I'm walking off the golf course a little bit disappointed because that 65 could have easily been a 62 or a 61.  But still in a great position going into tomorrow.  More than likely going to be in the final group where I want to be.  I might be one or two shots behind but those are deficits I've made up before.
Q. The script certainly suggested a birdie at the last and a round of 64.  There was a real sense of disbelief?
RORY McILROY: I probably shouldn't have looked too much into Thongchai's putt.  His sort of went straight right off the blade.  It sort of ticked the green with it and went right, and I may be gave mine a little too much break from the left and I pulled it, as well.  His went straight right and mine was straight left.  Third guy if he was using the grip, he would have got it right.
Yeah, just one of those things.  These greens can be a bit tricky to read at this time of the day, and I was more going off what his ball did instead of just reading it properly and trying to go with what I saw.
Q. Is this the sort of round that you felt was coming, because we've spoken after many rounds in the last couple of weeks where it's been close, it's been close.  This was right there, wasn't it?
RORY McILROY: It was, yeah.  Even coming off the course yesterday, I said to a few of the people closest to me, I felt like 68 was the worst I could have shot the first two days.
I sensed that there was something else in there, and the way I started off today, I knew it was a day where I had to make the most of it, especially hitting the ball that well in these conditions, you could really make up some ground on the field.  And I guess for the most part, I did.  It would have been nice to get a couple more but I'm happy with 65.
Q. One day to go into your season and it's been an interesting season to say the very least.  What would a win mean to you?  Obviously it would mean The Race to Dubai, but in the overall scheme of 2015?
RORY McILROY: It would mean an awful lot just being able to go into the Christmas break on a bit of a high note winning The Race to Dubai, winning this tournament, just to get another tournament win.  At the end of the season, if I walk away with four wins, it's still pretty good.  But a Race to Dubai title, even though it wasn't the season that I wanted, it would just be huge to walk away here on a high tomorrow.
Q. So it's a big day tomorrow?
RORY McILROY: It is.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT