WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 8, 2015
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Tell us about the round today?
RORY McILROY: Yeah, I played well today.  I feel like I played very similarly to the way I played the last three days.  I held a couple more putts and I was very solid from tee-to-green.  The way this course is playing, there's low scores out there and that score sort of reflects that.  I felt like I could have been even lower but reflects how I played, not just today but over the course of the week.
This week has just been about the putts that haven't went in and that's sort of what my last few weeks have felt like, as well.  I felt like I played good enough to be in contention and win.  I just haven't held enough putts.  But it was nice to finish this way and try and get ready for Dubai in a couple weeks.
Q. Have you been watching Danny Willett today and what he's done?
RORY McILROY: Yeah, I saw he got off to a gate start and then he kept it going.  So yeah, great round of golf, 10-under par, not sure it's going to be quite enough for him but he played really well.
Q. Keeps The Race to Dubai very exciting?
RORY McILROY: It does.  He's got a great chance to do something next week at the BMW.  So no matter what happened this week, he's playing next week and has a great chance to creep up on me or overtake the lead.
Q. Sum up this tournament for you.
RORY McILROY: It's been disappointing.  Hasn't been the best tournament just because of how I felt and feeling like I could have done better.  But it's been great to be back in China.  The fans are obviously always very enthusiastic.  Yeah, it's good to be back.  It's always a golf course I enjoy here in Sheshan.  Hope to be back soon.
Q. We have to start at the finish, because that's spectacular, wasn't it.  That was lovely.
RORY McILROY: Sort of summed up my week a little bit.  Yeah, it was a lovely way to finish, especially after bogeying 17 and good to finish with a good score like that and get myself up the leaderboard at the minute.  See how the guys go coming in but yeah, nice to finish on a high note like that.
Q. Given where you started this week, presumably that's all the better, isn't it, to have a nice finish?
RORY McILROY: Yeah, it is.  Hasn't been the best of weeks for me but tried to make the most of it and I've had a good weekend.   Just try and get ready for Dubai now and make sure I'm healthy and get ready to go there.
Q. Are you one for thinking, what might have been?
RORY McILROY: A little bit.  If I could take back that second round where I shot even par, even shoot something in the red numbers, that could have made a difference.
I feel like I played well enough to win this week.  I just didn't hole enough putts and that's sort of been the story of my season, well, at least, for the last couple of months anyway.  But it's getting better.  I feel like every tournament I play, I'm getting a little bit better and hopefully I can continue in that trend and go into Dubai and play well again.
Q. With Dubai in mind and another visit to the Jumeirah Golf Estates, what are your thoughts and what are your plans from here on in?
RORY McILROY: Just get ready for that.  I obviously know the course very well and Dubai is a bit of a second home for me and going for the double there after winning there earlier in the season.
Looking forward to it.  I always enjoy it there.  I love the golf course and yeah, I've done well there before.  Just go there and try and get the win.  Hopefully that will be enough.
Q. Early to Dubai to prepare?
RORY McILROY: I'll go there -- I'll get to Dubai next weekend, so I'll be there a few days early.
Q. And one more thing from here.  You'll no doubt have seen that leaderboard and seen a certain Danny Willett shooting a 62.  Are you looking over your shoulder?
RORY McILROY: Not really.  It doesn't -- he's playing next week and I'm not, so no matter what happened today, he has a good chance to maybe overtake me next week.  I'm just with the mind-set that I need to go to Dubai and win and whatever happens from there, that's all I can do.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT