ABU DHABI HSBC GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 23, 2016
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
RORY McILROY: Average round to be fair but that's the thing, even when you're not really at your best, to be able to come away with a 70 and still keep within it up of the leaders, I'm really happy with that.   
 Q.  Must have been a frustrating day yesterday?  
RORY McILROY: It was.  It was a frustrating day yesterday, because again, I felt like I hit the ball pretty well.  I gave myself plenty of chances, and then even this morning starting off, missed a couple of chances.   
But it was so nice to finish like that and if that means, depending on what Stenson and a couple of the guys do coming in, if it means I'm in the last group, then that would be great.  Look forward to trying to play some more golf like that this afternoon.   
 Q.  Did you say to yourself as you sort of stood on the 17th tee, right, need something special from these two?  
RORY McILROY: I did.  I said, let's finish 3-3 and I was able to.  I don't know if I should say that to myself on the first tee, okay, let's have 183S here.   
I knew I needed something and I knew I wanted to finish well and I knew 18 was a chance and 17 playing downwind, I would have a wedge in there.  So I knew I had a couple of good chances.  But I didn't quite expect to do it on 18 there.  That was a nice way to finish.   
 Q.  How unsettling is it with the delays here, because obviously one of the things that you guys always say before this tournament is the weather is so great, everything is laid out, it's all very straightforward as a week.  So when there are disruptions to this kind of week, is it almost doubly annoying?  
RORY McILROY: A little bit, yeah, early starts, long days.  But I was in there sitting having a coffee with Thomas Björn this morning, and Thomas can moan about it a little bit; "I'm not leaving the UAE for another three weeks; well, I'll wait as long as it takes." (Laughter).   
Yeah, I guess this time of year, sometimes if the fog does come in, it takes awhile to lift.  But hopefully we can get a lot of holes in this afternoon and it's not as foggy tomorrow and we can get it finished.   
 Q.  Round two was quite slow, bit of a battle yesterday.  So what happened last night to produce that finish this morning?  
RORY McILROY: I don't know.  I think it was just early to bed and get a good night's sleep.  Actually felt like it was going to be the same story this morning.  I hit two great shots into 14, had another good chance at 16 I didn't hole.   
So I knew I had a couple of good chances coming in.  I just stayed patient.  That's really what it was.  I knew I was hitting good shots and I gave myself chances.  I kept giving myself chances but it was nice to have a couple kick-ins the last two holes to finish it off.   
 Q.  We have to talk about that shot into 18, very nearly an albatross.  Have you ever had one before?  
RORY McILROY: Never had one.  I think my dad's had a couple.  I haven't quite caught up to him on that.  But yeah, I've been close before but never had an albatross.  Looked pretty close from back there.  I'm not sure how close it did come to coming in but just happy to finish with an eagle like that and get myself up the leaderboard and stay within touching distance of the leaders.   
 Q.  Time to kill now; what are your plans now?  
RORY McILROY: Not much.  Probably just get a bit of food, rest up a little bit and just warm up all over again and try to treat it like a new day and a new round.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT