TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN
November 1, 2015
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I know you wanted to make a bigger run than you did today, but as you leave here, what part of your game disappointed you in the final round today?
RORY McILROY: Started hitting the ball left with my iron which is wasn't good.  Hit an iron shot left on 5 and then hit iron shots left on 8 and 9 and 10, actually, which put me in bad positions and I didn't get up-and-down.  I mean, I probably should have got up-and-down but the reason I was there in the first place was because of the bad iron shots.
Just need to work on that a little bit going to next week.  But looking forward to getting there and getting to Sheshan, a course where I've played well before.  Not the finish that I wanted, but I feel like I've seen good enough signs this week to suggest that I can play well the next couple.
Q. When we talked earlier in the week, you said you would be working on your game in Dubai and you came here looking for some beliefs.  Do you feel like you have that evidence moving to the HSBC Champions?
RORY McILROY: Yeah, I definitely feel like I can get myself into contention.  It's always good to test yourself under pressure and in contention.  My game didn't hold up as well as I wanted it to today.  But next week's another opportunity to get myself into the mix again and see if I can handle it a bit better.
Q. You talked about your frustrations, but the positives in your game that you take away this week; are there certain aspects mechanically that you see?
RORY McILROY: Yeah, it's definitely better, better than the last couple of starts I made at THE TOUR Championship and Fry's, and my ball-striking has been a little more consistent.
I feel I've got a new driver in the bag and a new ball and I'm excited about that.  It's just more of just trying to get myself into these positions and just try to handle them better.  Don't know if I was just trying a bit too hard out there or what it was.  Whenever I get myself in this position, I need to get out of my own way a little bit.
Q. And finally, how about the putting?
RORY McILROY: It wasn't as good today.  I felt like I held a couple early, which was a good sign.  Held a good one for par on 5 and after that, I felt like I hit some good putts that didn't go in but I made a couple of bad strokes on the back nine.  That's still a work-in-progress and keep trying to improve on that part and keep going forward.
Q. Even though it might not have been the finish you wanted, you finished in the Top-10 and you secured your defense for The Race to Dubai, as well.  You must take some satisfaction from that.
RORY McILROY: Yeah, it's always disappointing whenever you have a chance to win and you don't play enough to do that.  I'll be going away from this tournament very disappointed with how I played today.  But I'm still playing two more events this year and I feel like my game is good enough to give myself two opportunities to win again.
It's not all bad.  I feel like my game is in decent shape going forward.  I just need to work on a couple of things and if I can get them straightened out in the next couple of weeks, I should be okay.
Q. And looking forward to next week, the HSBC Champions, you've got a really strong field; do you approach that tournament differently?
RORY McILROY: I'm looking forward to going to Sheshan.  It's a course I've played well on before and a course that I know well, so I'm looking forward to that.
As you said, it's a very strong field so it will be nice to go up against some of the guys that are up there in the World Rankings and are playing well, and try to test myself against those guys, as well.  It's going to be a good week next week.  I'm looking forward to it and feel like I'm taking some positives from here.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT