TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 27, 2020
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Rory, how would you assess the day out there for you?  
RORY McILROY: Sort of up and down. Bogeyed the 1st and then came back well with a birdie on 2 I guess it was, and then yeah, was just sort of like one of those days. Every time I took a step forward I took a step back a couple holes later. Yeah, sort of stood still compared to everyone else that was going low out there. Disappointing day.   
 Q.  You've obviously had some good rounds in this stretch but you've had some rounds like this. Does it kind of feel like you take that step forward with a round on Thursday but then you have these type of rounds where you take a step back?  
RORY McILROY: Yeah, it's a little erratic. The good stuff is in there, but obviously there's a bit of bad, too. Sort of just putting it down to having those few months off and not really sort of finding my rhythm yet. Hopefully post a low one tomorrow and have a week off before going up to Columbus for a couple weeks.   
 Q.  Is there something about this place, though, there are low numbers out there, so is that something you look forward to tomorrow?  
RORY McILROY: Yeah, for sure. If you go out there and play well, you can shoot something like Brendon or DJ shot today. It would be a nice way to finish the week, shoot a low one and have a week off to maybe work on a couple things and get back at it.   
 Q.  Because you know this golf course so well and how it's shaping up, is there such a thing as too far back with the numbers?  
RORY McILROY: Yeah, there is, yeah. Too far back and too many people between you and the lead. Yeah, maybe if I had -- I guess if I'd got to 12-under after 14, I guess, if I had have been able to sneak a couple more over the last few holes, get to 14 and then all of a sudden you feel like you're right in it, but I went the other way those last few holes, and that's what took me out of it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT