WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 7, 2015
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You look really good today.  Seems like your energy levels are up.  
RORY McILROY: Yeah, I feel much better today.  I was glad to be back to 100 per cent and healthy and could give it my all out there.   
 Q.  4-under today, one bogey.  Happy with your round?  
RORY McILROY: Not really.  I felt like I played well from tee-to-green.  I gave myself a lot of chances, but again, I didn't really make anything on the greens.  That 68 really felt like a 73 or a 74.   
So I needed to go a lit bit lower to give myself a chance going into tomorrow but try and finish off the tournament with a good score tomorrow and get myself into the top ten or the top five.   
 Q.  Seeing as your energy levels are up, you're obviously strong and you must be confident heading into that final round tomorrow?  
RORY McILROY: Yeah, I am.  Again, I'm hitting the ball well from tee-to-green, and I've been struggling on the greens, not just this week but for the past few weeks.  So I was trying to figure out how to turn that around, and if I do, then I know that there's a lot of low scores in me.   
 Q.  Do you take a break before you go to Dubai?  
RORY McILROY: Yes, to have a week off next week, and then yeah, try and get myself ready to have a good week in Dubai.   
 Q.  How are you today?  
RORY McILROY: Yeah, I'm good.  I'm much better.  I feel good.  So I don't think my health's a concern anymore.  Just something that was working on me for a few days and thankfully it's out of my system.  I felt like I hit the ball really good out there.  There was no problems with weakness or lack of energy.   
I felt like, again, as I said I hit the ball well.  My rhythm is back in my swing.  18 holes doesn't feel like a slog.  I'm feeling much better and I'm hitting the ball well.  Just haven't scored as well as I feel like I should have this week.   
 Q.  And yet in many ways, it has been a slog today, hasn't it; with all these weather conditions and disruption?  
RORY McILROY: Yeah, a little bit.  But I know I'm glad to at least get finished.  I don't know if the leaders will quite get finished today but it's nice to get in and be able to hopefully -- depending what the leaders do, if they are not too far away, if I can shoot 63 or 62 out there tomorrow and post a score, even if that doesn't win, get myself to the top ten or top five, it will still be an okay week.   
 Q.  And with this improvement of health, do you feel that is now within you?  
RORY McILROY: Yeah, I do.  I felt like I could have shot that today.  I missed so many putts.  So if I can hit it like I did today and hole a few more putts, then you never know.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT