FRYS.COM OPEN
October 16, 2015
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How do you feel like I played compared to yesterday?
RORY MCILROY: Yeah, same thing.  I didn't hit it quite as well as yesterday.  Didn't hole anything really.  Kind of the story of the day.  Two birdies one bogey, I guess.
Yeah, just very frustrating.  It's sort of been like this since I've been back.  Need to sort of figure it out a little bit.  I'm going to go work on it now.  Yeah, just need to see some putts going in the hole, get some confidence.
Q. Do you think it's a technical issue?  Feel issue?  What do you attribute that to?
RORY MCILROY: I think it's more mental than anything else.  Whenever you don't see anything go in, it makes it harder and harder each and every hole that goes by.
Hopefully find something on the putting green tonight and then hopefully I can get off to a good start in terms of holing putts tomorrow.  Hopefully that can feed through and I get some momentum and go from there.
Q. What did you expect to make, and how many should you expect to make?
RORY MCILROY: I mean, you're going to miss some.  That's inevitable.  There are just chances that you should hole, chances that you give yourself that you need to take advantage of.
Some of the wedge shots I had and missed.  They're the things -- I had two wedges inside four feet today and didn't putt for the hole.
So there are things you're playing well and you have confidence.  Those go in and those give you momentum for the rest of the round as well.  I don't expect to hole everything, but I expect to hole more than I am at the moment.
Q. What happened with the wedge on 17?
RORY MCILROY: As you could see, it was a really tricky pin position, so I was trying to -- I felt anything left of the pin was going to hit that slope and go left.  I tried to hold a sand wedge and just got slightly ahead of it.
Especially how firm it is around the greens here, it doesn't need to go off line by much to make to look like a really bad shot.  It wasn't that bad.  Wasn't great, but had it been maybe three yards left of where it was it might have been okay.
Q. Does frustration compound itself out there sometimes?
RORY MCILROY: Yeah, it does, especially on the back nine when you have the two par-5s in the last three holes to try and make some ground up.  Not to take advantage of those, especially in the positions that I've put myself, just of the front of the green and not getting up and down, yeah, it's frustrating, because it's a golf course when you feel like you're on top of your game you can go really low.
When your just slightly off, especially with how tricky it is with how firm the greens are, you still feel like you can shoot a good score out there.  But not to be able to break 70 today is quite disappointing.
Q. How low do you think you need to go to give yourself a chance?
RORY MCILROY: I think you can see the field is bunched because it's receptive in the morning and plays really tough in the afternoon.  We just have to see how this plays out over the weekend.  I think I'm sixth behind at the minute.
It will depend on how Brendan plays on the way in.  Still feel like I have a good chance, but I need to hole putts and figure out how to do that pretty quickly.
Q. You mentioned the two par-5s.  How can that effect things on the weekend?
RORY MCILROY: Yeah, put the tee up on 17 and you've got three really good chances.  Makes for an exciting finish.  Really not out of it until then.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT