TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP BY COCA-COLA
September 25, 2015
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Tough conditions.  Talk about the round.
RORY MCILROY: Yeah, the conditions were -- honestly, I thought the scoring would have been better just because of the softness of the golf course and not much wind.
But yeah, I don't know, I guess everyone was finding it a little tricky.  It was a lot different than we usually find this golf course.  But, yeah, it played long, heavy air, so that was probably a factor.
But, yeah, just one of those days where it was sort of a bit of a grind and trying to shoot something under par and sort of trying to be aggressive at the last and tried to make birdie there and it backfired on me and I made bogey.  You couldn't really miss that pin anywhere left and I did.  It was a tough up-and-down from there.
Q. Hard to get any momentum going out there?  Seems like a lot of guys had trouble.
RORY MCILROY: Yeah, I don't really know why, but, yeah, it was just hard to get anything going.  You can see from the scores out there, apart from a couple of guys everyone was sort of in the same boat.
But, yeah, I don't know.  Hopefully I can get off to a better start.  I've been 1-over through six holes the last two days.  So I need to get off to a better start tomorrow to get myself back in the tournament.
Q. How do you kind of -- I know there's still 36 to go here, and you got a lot of golf overseas to play.  But how do you assess your season where if you don't win here, does it sort of feel like a loss year in a way?
RORY MCILROY: I think it's a loss year already, just because I didn't win a Major.  So, no matter what happened this week, okay, it would be nice, it would be a nice consolation if I was to win.
But I judge myself on the biggest tournaments and the biggest tournaments we have are the four Majors and I played okay in them but I didn't win.  So ultimately, it's a year that I guess got away from me.
Q. Difficult to play through that?
RORY MCILROY: No, not really.  There's always -- you always have to set yourself goals and reassess where you are, and bit by bit just try and get back to the level that you want to be at.  I think I'm getting closer.
I made a few good strides last week and I feel like I'm doing the same this week.  And it's just a process of trying to get a little bit better each and every week.
And I've got after this four tournaments to try and finish the season on somewhat of a high and get ready for next year.
Q. Given where you are coming back to this tournament, given where you are heading into the weekend, tomorrow do you ramp up the aggressiveness at all?  And secondly, do you feel a low one is just right around the corner for you?
RORY MCILROY: Yeah, I don't know if this is a golf course you can be overly aggressive on, because you just saw at the last there, you try to be aggressive at some pins and you short side yourself and it's very tough to get it up-and-down.  So, if you start being overly aggressive, it can get away from you very quickly on this golf course.  So, I guess it's just about picking your moments to be aggressive, picking your moments to know what flags to fire at, what flags, it's good to hit it 20, 25 feet away and take your par.
But I think the key for me tomorrow is just to get off to a better start.  Being 1-over through six the last two days, sort of puts me okay on the back foot.  Especially with -- it seems like a lot of guys are getting off to good starts.
The first four holes, you've got three wedges in your hand and it would be nice to take advantage of those.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT