CHARLES SCHWAB CHALLENGE
June 12, 2020
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. After 36 holes, are things starting to feel more normal for you?
RORY McILROY: Yeah, I mean, I think even yesterday, once we sort of got into the flow of the round, things started to become more normal. When that first birdie putt went in and I didn't get a clap, I was sort of -- like my hand was trying to go up to wave to someone in the gallery, but there's obviously no one there. But once you get into it, it's the same. We're trying to go out there and play the best golf we can.
Look, I'd love there to be fans here this week. I think this tournament deserves to be fans considering the field that's been assembled, but hopefully we can get back to playing in front of some big crowds soon. But it felt as normal as it can, I guess.
Q. When you look at the field and see that a lot of the top players are at the top of the leaderboard, what does that make you think?
RORY McILROY: I guess I feel like this is always -- from watching from afar, this is a golf course that's always let the best players rise to the top. You have to be in complete control of your game, hit fairways, hit greens, convert some putts, and yeah, the leaderboard is a who's-who of golf right now. I'm just happy to be in the mix.
Q. When you reflect back on the interruption, you came into the season, into the year playing strong, had that long layoff. Are you surprised, not at all surprised by you coming out and playing so well?
RORY McILROY: You know, I learned a lot about my game yesterday just through 18 holes, and you can do as much practice as you want and play as much as you want at home, but until you actually get into that competitive environment, you're never 100 percent sure of how your game is. So I learnt a lot yesterday, and I feel like I made some improvements today on yesterday and learnt a few things. So no, not surprised. I've been playing well at home and I've been hitting the ball the way I've wanted to, just a matter of getting it to translate out on to tournament play, and it's nice that it has.
Q. Yesterday you mentioned your distance control was off with your wedges. What was the turnaround today?
RORY McILROY: Actually the rental home we're staying in this week has a simulator in the basement, and I've actually hit a few balls in there last night, and that helped. So obviously I didn't -- it's hot here; you don't want to take too much energy out of yourself. But the fact that where we're staying has a simulator and you can hit some shots into the -- I guess get some numbers, I just needed to sort of dial them in a little bit. Did that last night, and seemed to help this morning.
Q. You had six birdies and an eagle; just overall an assessment of your round today?
RORY McILROY: Yeah, it was really good. I felt like I built my score really well. I took advantage of some of the easier holes. I played conservatively on some of the tougher ones, especially 3, 4 and 5, the horrible horseshoe. I made three of my pars there and moved on and then birdied the next two holes. Just smart, played to my strengths, put it in play and gave myself plenty of chances. I felt pretty comfortable out there, and hopefully I can do the exact same thing over the next two days.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT