DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 7, 2015
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What changed with you and your game here on Monday?
RORY McILROY: I holed some putts, finally.  I really got it going on the front nine and even sort of the first 12 holes.  And then sort of the same old stuff I've been doing the rest of the week, giving myself opportunities for making birdie.  It really feels like it could have been a lot more.  A lot of positives.  It was nice to finish the week this way.
Q. 66 has been and always will be a good score, but when you turn at 5-under, I'm guessing you may have left a little out there on the inward 9?
RORY McILROY: Yeah, I definitely feel like I left a lot out there.  The first 12 holes were perfect.  When I got myself out of position I was able to save par well, and I converted a lot of the birdie chances I was giving myself.
And even on the way in I can't really fault my ball-striking.  I gave myself a great look at 13, a great look at 15, another great look at 16.  And one at the last, as well.  And to play those holes in 1-over par was quite disappointing.
But overall I can take the positives from it.  It was a good score in tricky conditions.  It was a little windy out there.  All of this to take into Chicago.
Q. You had a lesson with Dave Stockton on your putting, did that pay off or just a matter of time for you this week?
RORY McILROY: I think it was a little bit of both.  It's a matter of time just to play a little bit more, as you said, but it definitely is a couple things to work on, and my putting, as well.  And if I can get those right by Chicago, there's no reason I can't challenge there.
Q. As it stands right now you may lose the No. 1 ranking in the world.  Big deal to you?  Doesn't matter that much?  Just keep playing?
RORY McILROY: Yeah, keep playing.  My focus the next few weeks is the FedExCup and try to do as well on that.  I'd love to play well next week and get myself into the top five going into Atlanta.  That's still the goal.  I'll probably need a win.  But if I can do that then I know it's possible.  I've had it done to me a couple of times before where guys have snuck into the top-5 then won The TOUR Championship and then the whole thing.  I'm trying to do the same thing this year.
Q. Is today your most positive step back since coming back from your injury?
RORY McILROY: Yeah, I guess so.  First couple holes were really good.  Just sort of I holed a couple of nice putts early and took a little bit of confidence from that.  And seems like the last six holes there I had plenty of chances and ending 1-over par wasn't very nice.
It's a step in the right direction.  It's another four competitive rounds under my belt and I know what I need to work in going to Chicago.
Q. What do you make of this No. 1 ranking.  If you have it, you're going to lose it, you get it back without playing again.  What's your take on that?
RORY McILROY: It's fine.  Gives me a chance to reassess where I'm at and work on things, and I'll be ready to go to Chicago.
Q. Do you understand all the math behind it?
RORY McILROY: I understand to a certain degree.
Q. (Inaudible.)
RORY McILROY: I'll look at it and see what the points are.  It doesn't matter, because we're all not playing next week, and we'll all lose points again.
Q. Was anything better than the first couple of wins?  The win at Honda --
RORY McILROY: That was the first experience, and to do it by winning, I could have done it the week before but didn't quite get there.  By winning a few times I got back to No. 1.
Q. I would think even at Bridgestone and Kiawah, you've been there and it's nice and it's a product --
RORY McILROY: The first time is always sweeter.
Q. Do wish there was a better way to determine who the best golfer in the world is besides math?
RORY McILROY: I don't see any other way.  You can do it on a one-year point system.  I think two years is a reflection of how you played.  At the end of the day it's just about playing and playing well -- I don't know any other way we could determine the best player in the world, if you go on majors or number of wins in the season.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT