PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 16, 2015
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. (Inaudible.)
RORY McILROY: Yeah, I guess, you know, with the conditions that we faced on the first day and the conditions that we faced today, anything, I thought, between 10 and 15-under would have a great chance to win, but obviously the standard is just so high these days that I didn't see close to 20-under par winning this tournament.
But I guess for myself, if I'm looking at it as a whole, I feel like I've done well to come back and shoot the scores that I have.  I feel like I progressed each and every day.  If I was to take back anything of this week, it would just be probably that second day when we teed off in benign conditions in the morning and I didn't take advantage of that.
Yeah, I'm walking away pretty happy with how the week went.  Obviously it isn't a win and didn't get myself into contention, but considering six weeks ago I wasn't able to walk, it's not a bad effort.
Q. (Inaudible.)
RORY McILROY: It's been great, honestly.  I've had no discomfort with it at all.  I've had to just go through all the stuff that I've been -- I'm still rehabbing it whenever I get back, I'm still doing exercise on it every night and every morning, getting treatment on it.  But it's good.
It's good to play golf.  As you can see out there, I'm hitting it the same distance as I have been, and able to get around 18 holes very easily.  So it's not an issue.  And as I said over there, the residual swelling that just sort of comes from activity, that probably won't go away for another two or three months, but it's nothing to worry about.
Q. (Inaudible.)
RORY McILROY: I probably next week won't do much work on my golf, I'll just keep doing the rehab and doing everything I need to then.  And then the week after I'll start to practice and build up again and get ready for Boston.
Q. What do you think of this course this week and how it played out from Thursday to today?
RORY McILROY: I guess it was getting firm, the wind on Thursday, it was starting to firm up a little bit by the end of the round on Friday.  But then that storm came through Friday night and that really changed the characteristics of the golf course.  It got softer, the greens got a little slower then, and I guess that's why you're seeing such low scores.
But overall I think it's a fantastic golf course.  It's a fantastic venue for a major championship, and looking forward to the Ryder Cup in five years time.
Q. (Inaudible.)
RORY McILROY: Honestly the way Jordan has been playing and the way I haven't played much this year, I think that was only my 12th or 13th event.  I feel like I'm playing well, but if he does go to No. 1 today, it's very deservedly so.  Winning two majors, winning a couple other times this year, had a chance at the Open, has a chance obviously today.  And if he was to get to No. 1 today, I'd be the first one to congratulate him because I know the golf you have to play to get to that spot, and it has been impressive this year.
Q. (Inaudible.)
RORY McILROY: Not really, I've always said that winning golf tournaments takes care of all of that stuff.  Right now I'm focused on just getting my game the way I think it has to be to win tournaments like this.
As I said, I felt 10 or 15-under was going to win this week.  And I'll need to go a bit better than that, it seems like, the next few weeks.  But I'm happy with where my game is considering all I've had to go through to get back here.  And just looking forward to the rest of the season.
Q. Some high scores, particularly yesterday morning.  But if you're looking to improve, what areas do you think you need to sharpen up on?
RORY McILROY: I just need to sharpen up.  I feel like ball-striking-wise, tee to green, it's there.  And it's sort of been there all year.  If anything, just around the greens and being more efficient, really -- when I give myself opportunities inside, wedges in my hand, got to take advantage of those.  And today is a prime example, it's my fourth day of competitive playing, getting those two balls up and down on 17 and 18, that's something just playing a bit more and just having experience with certain shots and certain lies.  That all just comes with playing a bit more.
Maybe at the start of the week, those last two holes I wouldn't have got those balls up and down, but playing a bit more you just become more comfortable with those type of shots.
Q. (Inaudible.)
RORY McILROY: I think Chambers Bay might have beat it, if I was to come back and test it there.  But, yeah, obviously there's quite a lot of undulation and hills and stuff.  But I knew after playing last week and getting around here for 18 holes on Saturday and Sunday that I was going to be okay.
Q. (Inaudible.)
RORY McILROY: I mean, it would be a huge monkey, obviously he's had so many chances.  And he's been knocking on the door for quite a while now.  Finished second to me at Congressional four years ago.  And he was close at the Masters that year, I think, as well.  So it's been four years of knocking on the door, knocking on the door, and if he was to get it off the line today, obviously I'd be delighted for him.
It's great to see guys win their first major.  I can still remember what mine was like.  I didn't have as many close calls as he had.  It will feel special, and a sense of satisfaction.  But there's a few tough holes on the back nine he has to get through first.
Q. Has ball-striking always been more important for you --
RORY McILROY: Yeah, that's the foundation of my game.  That's what I base my game on.  You have to keep your strengths, and chip away at your weaknesses.  That's the philosophy I've always taken with this game.  You can look at some example over the years, where they've gotten away from they're strengths and tried to improve their weaknesses and it hasn't really happened for them.
So I think ball-striking-wise, that's always going to be the foundation of my game, and if I can think of that as strong as possible, and chip away at the other stuff, I'm going to be okay.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT