BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 19, 2015
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You must be striking the ball awfully well?  
RORY McILROY: Yeah, I am.  Tee to green hasn't really been my problem the last few weeks.  I've just been struggling to convert the chances that I'm giving myself and play like that.  It was nice to see a couple putts drop coming in.  I holed -- it wasn't a great putt, but I holed it sort of six to eight feet on 15 for birdie, and then the one on 17 was like 50 something, and that dropped, and finished with two birdies in a row.  I moved in the right direction on the leaderboard, and I just need to convert more of those chances tomorrow if I have any chance.   
 Q.  Is it the pace or the reads of the putts?  
RORY McILROY: I think it's more -- I don't know, I missed a lot of putts right today, so I think I was just leaving the blade a little bit back.  But I've been reading them pretty well, so it's more I'd say speed and technically just a couple things I need to work on.   
 Q.  Your shoes are pretty sporty there.  
RORY McILROY: Yeah, these are cool.   
 Q.  Happy about the round you played?  
RORY McILROY: Yeah, coming down the stretch I holed a few more.  But yeah, another case of hit it really good and gave myself loads of chances and didn't really convert many.  But as I said, it was nice to birdie the last couple holes and move the right way on the leaderboard.  At least I'm getting better each and every day, and I'm not sure I quite -- I'm not quite close enough to the lead to maybe catch Jason tomorrow, but I'll go out there and try and play the best I can, and if I can convert a few more chances, that 67 today could turn into 63 or 62 tomorrow, and you never know.   
 Q.  Does it even feel like you're close to the top of the leaderboard with the lead that Jason has?  
RORY McILROY: Yeah, I mean, I can see I think I'm T3 at the minute.  But yeah, you want to be out there trying to win the golf tournament, not thinking about trying to finish third or second or whatever.  But the tournament is in Jason's hands right now, and it's up to us that are behind him to try and get off to fast starts tomorrow, and he needs to come back to the field a little bit.   
 Q.  With all the rain and everything, does it make it tougher to try and catch him with course conditions?  
RORY McILROY: I think it does, yeah, because if your shots are a little bit off you don't get punished by it as much because it is so soft.  But there's still holes out there that can catch you out and you can make bogey.  It seemed like -- I was watching the leaderboard pretty closely.  Seemed like any time Jason would make a birdie or two, he would make a bogey.  There is bogeys out there.  But yeah, it's going to be tough with the conditions to try and catch him.   
 Q.  From your perspective is Player of the Year on the line next week?  
RORY McILROY: No, no way.  No way.  Majors trump anything.  Jordan has had that locked up basically since the Open Championship.   
 Q.  What did par feel like today?  
RORY McILROY: What did par feel like?  I think it was probably closer to 70.  I mean, it was a tougher day today, especially with the change in the wind direction.  It made the course play a little more difficult.  You know, par yesterday was probably 67.  I'd say par today was probably around 70-ish.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT