DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 5, 2015
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Sum the day up for us.  
RORY McILROY: I don't know, I think it shows that I haven't really played much competitive golf.  When I've given myself opportunities to get it close then I'm not making putts.  And I think I've had three or four 3-putts -- four 3-putts in two days and just haven't really made anything.   
So it's been a bit of a struggle.  More mentally, because I've just been trying to get something going, and there's nothing happening.  It was nice to birdie the last, at least.  At least give myself another couple of days to try to improve and shoot a couple better scores.   
 Q.  Watching from the distance it appears there may be some speed issues on the greens, is that accurate?  
RORY McILROY: Yeah, my speed for the most part was a bit better today than it was yesterday.  I feel like the greens got a little slower today in the afternoon rather than in the morning.  I felt like they were very fast yesterday afternoon.  But the speed isn't quite where it needs to be.   
 Q.  Small consolation, being under the cut line.  Unless Jason goes nuts you retain No. 1 for another week.  
RORY McILROY: That's not quite on my mind right now.  I just have to try to get my game in better shape.  I know which parts of the game are pretty good, and I know which parts I need to work on.  I've got two days coming up to try and do that and another off week to practice on a few things and try and go to Chicago in better shape.   
 Q.  Are you concerned?  Are you wondering?  Where are you in your head about days like today?  
RORY McILROY: I mean if you look at the bigger picture, it's my second tournament in ten weeks.  I'm just trying to play myself into better form.  So I'm not concerned but I think the good thing is I know what I need to work on.  It's not as if I'm out there and what's going wrong.  There's things that I need to address, and if I can address those issues I know that I'll start to show it.   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  
RORY McILROY: Yeah, frustration, but it's the same thing, you know, as the PGA.  Drove the ball well, felt like most of my irons were good.  It was the wedges and putting really, my chipping and bunker play is pretty good.  Wedges from say 100 to 150 yards, I need to tidy up, and obviously I need to get a lot better on the greens.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT