U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 21, 2015
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  How much did 14 derail sort of the momentum you had going there?  RORY McILROY: I really didn't think it was 14, because 14 is not -- I had a great drive going there, but it's not a hole that you're thinking to pick up a shot. I don't think it derailed the momentum.  It would be nice to have holed it.  I felt like I hit a good putt for once that didn't go in.  Then the missed putt on 15, for the first bogey of the day, that hurt.  And not to birdie 16 from where I put it off the tee.  And then again a three-putt on 17. When I look back, obviously the last few holes of this golf course haven't been kind to me all week.  And when I look back at this tournament that's where I'll rue some missed opportunities.  I feel like it's sort of one that got away, especially the way I putted this week.  I don't think I've ever hit the ball as well in a major championship.   Q.  You finished with the best round of the tournament.  Was there a feeling of it just kind of came together a little bit too late?  RORY McILROY: Yeah, that was basically it.  Got off to a good start.  I hit some good shots early on, made some nice putts, and just got a little bit of momentum going there.  And I really thought when I held that long putt on 13, I had 16 and 18 coming in.  If I could post 4-under par, birdie those two holes coming in, then I thought I had a great chance really, really did. Especially with the way the greens are getting out there, they're getting baked.  At least it would be a number for guys to really think about.  But I felt I had a good shot on 15 and it just came up short.  I had a good first putt and second putt, I lacked a bit of speed.  And 16 and 17 killed me as well.   Q.  On 13 were you thinking, Why not me?  RORY McILROY: Of course, as I said, I post 4-under par and I was thinking that I would have a really good shot at winning.  So, yeah, it was definitely in my head.   Q.  Good to be going to Scotland on the back of a round like this?  RORY McILROY: It is.  It really is.  It bodes well for the rest of the summer the way I've hit the ball this week.  And I've got a couple of weeks to work on my putting and get that up to the shape that it has been in and especially the way it was last year.  If I can do that, keep the long game where it is, I'm really excited about what can happen over the summer.   Q.  Do you take some positives out of this Open or some things in your opinion have to change?  RORY McILROY: I don't know.  How long have I got left?  I've got to say, if they come back here in about 20 years time I'd be all right with that (laughter).   Q.  Can you come away, though, with some positives?  Obviously you finished with your best round here.  RORY McILROY: Of course I take a lot of positives out of this.  The long game is really in good shape.  I've never hit the ball as good in a major championship for four rounds.  I was really dialed in all week and confident with that.  And if I can just get the putting a little bit better and roll a few more in and get a little bit of confidence with that going, I see nothing but positive signs for the next few months.   Q.  What about the next two weeks?  RORY McILROY: I am going to fly back to Florida tonight and then I'll fly back to Belfast on Tuesday and then I'm just going to stay at home until through The Open.   Q.  You are going to St. Andrews, do you know it well enough anyway?  RORY McILROY: No, I'll go probably the weekend before the Scottish Open or even the Monday, Tuesday of the Scottish Open and play a couple of practice rounds.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT