U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 20, 2015
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  RORY McILROY: ...64 or 65-under today, end up shooting 70.  It's disappointing, but at least I can take a lot from the way I hit the ball.   Q.  What is your biggest frustration out there?  Is it that you are hitting the ball so well but you are just not quite in contention?  RORY McILROY: That's the thing, I feel like I could have easily walked off the golf course last night, instead of shooting two 72s, shooting two 68s and being right in there. Again, today, I'm just in a bad habit of turning good scores into average ones at the minute and that's why I'm in the position I'm in.   Q.  How disappointed have you been with your performance on the greens this week?  RORY McILROY: It's been frustrating when you start to miss a few and there's some that you don't quite know if you've made a bad stroke or if it's bobbled off line or whatever.  You start to doubt yourself a little bit and you doubt the greens.  You start thinking about it a little too much.  That's what has happened to me this week.  I just haven't been able to get out of my way to let it go.  The result is I haven't held much.   Q.  There's been a lot of criticism of the course this week.  Do you think it's fair?  RORY McILROY: I think the layout is very good.  I think they've done a great job.  The course itself is great.  I think the condition of the greens -- I guess it's the same for everyone, but to come to a U.S. Open and not have perfect greens is a little disappointing.  At the same time, it is what it is and you have to deal with it.  I think the people that are mentally stronger are the ones that can embrace it and accept it and they are the ones that are going to play well this week.   Q.  The way you chased out there was brilliant.  The front nine, the birdie on 7 was terrific.  From 8 until 12 was where the little slippage began.  How difficult was it to lose that momentum and try to regain it?  RORY McILROY: It was very -- I would say that the putt on 10 was the real momentum stopper.  I hit it really close there.  That's a pin position where if you get it within 20 feet of the hole, you are going to be happy.  To get it within three and miss that, that sort of stopped any momentum that I had. Then the bogey straight after and then not to birdie the 12 after that, it was a real -- those three holes I let a few shots slip and couldn't recover there, even though I gave myself plenty of chances on the way in after that.   Q.  You don't know how far you are away from the lead right now, but you know the spirit of Wells Fargo lives long, the 62 in the final round.  It could have been a really low number today.  Tomorrow is there something special there that could get you into a position where you might just scare the leaders?  RORY McILROY: Maybe.  I'm plus 4.  Depending on what the guys do this afternoon, if I can go out there and try to get to even par for the tournament as quickly as possible you never know what can happen.  I'll need something spectacular tomorrow.  If I can hit the ball like I did today and have one of my best every putting rounds, I still have a chance.  We'll see how that materializes.   Q.  How much was the putting down to you and how much was it done to these greens, do you think?  RORY McILROY: It was both.  I missed a few.  Obviously the greens aren't perfect, so there are a couple that you think are going to go in and they don't.  Then it gets into your head a little bit and then I start to make tentative strokes.  If the ball loses any sort of speed in these greens, it doesn't have a chance to go in.  A bit of both, but more me rather than the greens.   Q.  Is this one of the more frustrating tournaments in your career?  RORY McILROY: Every year the U.S. Open is very frustrating, apart from 2011.  Came off the green on the last there and I said to JP, I just said thank God I've got one of these.  Keep trying and keep going but give it a good go tomorrow.  I'm glad my name is on the trophy at least once and I'll try to make it twice at some point.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT