DUBAI DUTY FREE IRISH OPEN HOSTED BY THE RORY FOUNDATION
May 31, 2015
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Has this week exceeded expectations?  
RORY McILROY:     From a foundation perspective, I think for the week, there was a total of 107,000 people here, in spite of the weather not being as we would have liked.   So it has been absolutely incredible.   The support this tournament's got from fans and spectators, volunteers, Royal County Down sponsors, it has been incredible.   So it has exceeded expectations.   
   
 Q.   And exciting playoff?   
RORY McILROY:     Yeah, exciting finish.   I'm not sure who is going to get it but whoever does; Søren is a very accomplished player on Tour;   Bernd Weisberger, as well, and I grew up playing amateur golf with Eddie Pepperell.   So whoever wins, it will be good to see.   
   
 Q.   Did you watch battlefield conditions yesterday?   
RORY McILROY:     I did a little.   It looked like wind direction changed yesterday and that allowed for a few better scores.   I kept a close eye on it to see what was going on.   Obviously it would have been nice to be out there playing myself and try to climb backup the leaderboard, but just didn't do enough on Friday to make that happen.  
   
 Q.   What has this week done for the foundation?   
RORY McILROY:     I think one of the biggest things, it's given it global exposure.   The amount of countries that have seen The Irish Open this week, it's been all over the world and it's given us incredible exposure and exposure to a lot of people to see what we are trying to achieve and what we've been able to do for the cancer funds for children, for Daisy Lodge and a lot of the supporters of the foundation; to see the work that we have put in there.   
Good to see that Søren won.   I think he played really well yesterday and he battled well in the conditions today.   It's not often you see a guy shoot 76 in the final round and get the victory.   Great for him and deserving winner for The Irish Open.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT