THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 10, 2015
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. If you could have played the front nine in under par this week you would be right there.  What was it about that stretch?RORY MCILROY: I don't know.  I felt like again I hit the ball very well from tee to green and I just didn't hit it close enough on the front nine this week, I feel.  I feel like there's a lot more chances on the back nine anyway, but even if I could have went out in 33 or 34 a couple of times it would have made a big difference. But yeah, just one of those golf courses you feel like you play well, you walk off with 70 and you're quite frustrated.  So, still another solid week.  A lot of positives to take from tee to green, just need to go home over the next couple of days and work on my putting a little bit and hopefully it will be a bit better for next week.Q. What's the difference between a week where nothing seems to drop and weeks where it all goes in the hole?RORY MCILROY: When you're hitting the hole a lot it's probably speed more than anything else.  I felt the ones that had a chance I -- maybe just weren't -- they were a little, they weren't quite rolling past the hole they were just getting to the hole and sort of dying away. So, maybe just hitting putts a little too soft at times out there.  So, just I'll try to get the speed a bit better next week and be a bit more aggressive on the greens and hopefully that will make a difference.Q. Did you go out with a number in mind today?RORY MCILROY: Yeah, I thought if I could get to 12 or 13 I would have a chance.  Even when I birdied 11 and 12 there to get to 8 I thought it's still possible to get to 12. Gave myself a great chance on 13 and didn't convert and then it was tough from there.Q. How would you compare the way you played this week compared to last week?RORY MCILROY: I feel I hit it very similar from tee to green.  Obviously in match play you need to hole putts to win matches and I was able to do that last week when I needed to.  I still didn't feel like I putted great last week, but I got the job done whenever I needed to. Just if I can play like this just more of the same next week.  I don't know really what else I can take out of it, except from the fact that I'm hitting the ball well, giving myself plenty of opportunities for birdies, and if I can do that around here, I feel like I can do that around anywhere.  So, pretty positive going into Charlotte.Q. What sort of similarities between this tournament and the Masters?  Are there any?RORY MCILROY: Yeah, I got off to such a slow start at Augusta and then I played really well for the last 45 holes. Here, it's steady.  Every round's under par, every round I'm hitting a lot of fairways, a lot of greens, I'm just, it's there.  I'm hoping -- I'm not hoping, I'm expecting a week where if I go out and hole putts, I'll do what I have done before and win easily.Q. (No Microphone.)RORY MCILROY: Yeah, leaving frustrated again.  It is.  It's just that sort of course.  You look at the scores out there, no one is going low, I'm three behind the leader, it's not -- and that's coming off feeling like I've left between five and 10 shots out there this week, so.Q. (No Microphone.)RORY MCILROY: Yeah, yeah, I'm really happy with where everything is from tee to green.  So more of the same with that and as I said, gave myself plenty of opportunities for birdies and just hole a few more putts.Q. (No Microphone.)RORY MCILROY: I don't know.  I don't know.  There's a lot of putts.  Shots?  Not so many.  But putts, there's a lot of putts from sort of inside 15 feet that -- but anyway.Q. (No Microphone.)RORY MCILROY: Yeah, looking forward to it.  Great memories.  So it's a course that I really enjoy, so looking forward to getting up there on Wednesday.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT