BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 21, 2015
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What's your verdict on your play today?   
RORY McILROY:   I played okay.   It was all right.   There wasn't really any aspects of my game I thought was really good, but at the same time I don't feel any aspect of my game was really off.   So probably a fair reflection of how I played.  
   
 Q.   The tee shot at 14, uphill, downwind, quite awkward?   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, a little bit.   Just sort of smoothed a 7‑iron in there.   It was between receive and 8‑iron.   Just tried to cut a 7‑iron.   Worked out nicely there.   It's always nice to make a 2 at 14.   One of the tougher par 3s on the course.  
   
 Q.   Seen a lot of players today putting out of little swales by the green, and Martin Kaymer did so ahead of you.   Can you explain how you're seeing these shots?   
RORY McILROY:   I had a good enough lie that I thought I could chip it and I feel like when I chip it from those areas, I have a better chance of holing it if I chip it rather than I feel like sometimes it's hard to judge the speed, especially having to go over such a long distance of fringe.   I thought it nearly went in but thought I was giving myself a better chance of holing it by doing that.  
   
 Q.   All the holes you played in the Match Play in the last two weeks, you've played 267 holes competitively before this week, and we know about you flying over from America.   Where are you in terms of fatigue at the moment?   
RORY McILROY:   I'm okay.   Physically I'm all right.   Mentally I'm a little‑‑ I am feel myself getting a bit angry out there which I haven't been doing the last few weeks.   I just sort of need to stay in control of my emotions because I feel like that's one of the things, if I'm a little tired or a little fatigued mentally, I'll start to be hard on myself and start to get down on myself.   Try not to do that over the next few days.   Just try and get as much rest as I've been getting and I should be okay.   
   
 Q.   Solid start, did it feel solid or did you leave a couple out there?  
RORY McILROY:   I felt like I left a couple out there but when I look at the leaderboard I'm only three shots off the lead.   Everyone else must have been finding it quite difficult out there, as well.   I didn't feel like any aspect of my game was really off today.   But at the same time, I didn't do anything that good, either.   There's definitely room for improvement over the next few days.  
   
 Q.   Such a busy schedule, pulled in all different directions, has fatigue played any part today?   
RORY McILROY:   Physically, no.   Physically I feel fine.   I got back to my room last night in the hotel at 4:30 in the afternoon and didn't leave it until 6:30 this morning, so there's 14 hours of sort of rest, so that was good.   But mentally, I could feel myself getting a bit down on myself out there and that's something I haven't been doing over the past few weeks.   Just need to be aware of that and be conscious that I just need to try to keep everything on an even keel out there.  
   
 Q.   Is there some fatigue in general of the five weeks, thinking about the fact that there's still so much to come but your concentration is the hardest thing to get right?  
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I think it's just acceptance of bad shots.   That's the thing that I've been doing so well, and every time I've played well this year, I've been talking about how mentally good I've been in terms of acceptance and patience, and I feel like my patience was sort of wearing thin out there today.   So I just need to try and stay a little bit more patient.  
   
 Q.   And defending a title is still important; this is a big, big event for you.   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, it is.   Of course it's a big event.   Every event I play is a big event.   I wouldn't enter them if I didn't want to come here and try my best to win the thing.   It's important to me to try to play well this week.   If that's the worst score of the week for me, then I'll be doing okay.  
   
 Q.   How would you describe your relationship with the West Course at the moment?   
RORY McILROY:   It's okay.   I mean, my relationship with the course is good.   With the greens, might not be so much but there's not much we can do about that.   It's fine.   You've just got to trust your putts as much as you can, just pick a line and try and hit as good a putt as you want, and some putts will go in and some putts won't.   But it's the same for everyone this week.   I've just got to grin and bear it and move on.  
   
 Q.   Is that kind of the heart of the kind of anger management issue that you're mentioning there?  
RORY McILROY:   No, not really, because if I got angry with myself, that was probably just with a couple of the loose iron shots I hit or a couple of tee shots I hit.   It wasn't really to do with the greens as much.   But just everything in general, just staying patient, I felt like I was sort of standing still at 1‑under par out there but actually when I look at the leaderboard, it wasn't that bad.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT