BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 20, 2015
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MICHAEL GIBBONS:   Welcome, everyone.   Welcome, Rory, welcome back to Wentworth.   
RORY McILROY:   Thank you.  
   
 Q.   Was that good fun out there?   What percentage was golf and what percentage was Manchester United?   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, there's a bit of both in there.   Probably mostly to do with golf.   It's their day.   I want the boys to enjoy themselves, especially Scholesy and Phil, they probably get enough football chat.   Chatted a little bit about it, a little about golf, a little about other things.   It was really good fun.   It's always good to play with guys like that that have a real interest in the game, as well.  
   
 Q.   Was there a side wager?   Was there an Ireland versus class of '92 or anything like that?  
RORY McILROY:   No, none of that.   We are all on the same team, so all trying to sort of play for the one cause.   But there wasn't many birdies out there.   But it was all right.   It was good.   We had a lot of fun.  
   
 Q.   And personally, how are you feeling, final look at the course and everything; ready to go for tomorrow?   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I feel okay.   I hit quite a few good shots out there but there was a few loose ones.   I'll try to rest up again tonight and make sure I'm fresh and ready to go tomorrow.   But I'm feeling okay.   I'll be good to go.   There wasn't much sort of adrenaline in the body there today.   
So once I step on the first tee tomorrow and get a card in my hand, that will be different.  
   
 Q.   What's the plan for this afternoon, a few things to iron out in the range, a few putts?   
RORY McILROY:   No, I'm done.   I'll probably go to the gym this afternoon, and then I'll lock myself in my hotel room this evening and you won't see me again until I get here in the morning.  
   
 Q.   We know you bought a car off Ian Poulter on Monday.   We don't know which one it was.   
RORY McILROY:   No, it wasn't on Monday.   It was a few months ago.  
   
 Q.   Which car was it?  
RORY McILROY:   A Ferrari.   
   
 Q.   Is it nice?  
RORY McILROY:   It is nice.   
   
 Q.   Thinking about the course record last week and where you go from here into the summer, is your mind on the U.S. Open yet?  
RORY McILROY:   No, not yet.   My mind is focused on the next two weeks here and at The Irish Open.   I just want to try and finish off this stretch of golf as well as I can, and I get a couple weeks off after that.   Then I'll start to think about the U.S. Open and get ready for that.   
I'll probably go and take a look at Chambers Bay a little bit ahead of time.   But no, just fully focused on these two weeks and try to play as well as I can here, and then I'll put the clubs away for a few days, and then I'll turn my attention to the U.S. Open.   
   
 Q.   While I appreciate it's not something you necessarily want to put a number on, last year was obviously a phenomenal year.   What constitutes a good year in 2015?   
RORY McILROY:   I don't know, I mean, I've got off to a good start.   Three wins already this season.   I'd be lying if I said I wouldn't‑‑ I would be disappointed if I wasn't to win one of the next three majors.   I think that's really what determines a good or a great season for me these days.   
So there's three majors left this season, and I'd love to add to my tally.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT