WGC CADILLAC MATCH PLAY
May 3, 2015
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You had some early morning golf this morning with Paul Casey, and we talked about the fact that you weren't able to make the Mayweather‑Pacquiao fight.   I was going to kind of talk about or relate your final match against Gary like a boxing match.   You guys early were feeling each other out.   And then 4, 5, 6, 7, you win those holes to go 4‑up.   And you knocked him down and then knocked him out.   That stretch there, how critical was that in this match?
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, that stretch on the front nine, it was really important.   The conditions were a little more blustery this afternoon, so it made things a little trickier.   But once I got a lead and made a couple of birdies, as you said, in the middle of the front nine and got that lead, I felt a lot more comfortable.
I think sometimes finals can't rival the quality of previous matches.   And even today, we both played pretty well, but I'm sure we played better golf throughout the week.   But I'm happy to obviously get up, I think I was 4‑up through 9, and he came back at me a little bit early on. 
But he let me away with one on 13.   He didn't convert there.   And I took advantage of that on the next couple of holes.

Q.   Your 10th PGA Tour sanctioned victory.   Only two other players have had ten victories under the age of 26.   You join the list with Tiger Woods and Jack Nicklaus, what does that mean to you?
RORY McILROY:   Every time I have a win, I keep hearing those guys' names come up.   It's great to be mentioned with the likes of Tiger and Jack, the two greatest players that I think have ever played this game.
I'm on my journey, I'll see where I get to.   But right now I'm really happy with my 10th win.   And I'm going to go after my 11th next week at TPC.

Q.   That's a big stretch of golf for you coming up.   PLAYERS next week, the BMW‑PGA and the European Tour, the Irish Open, which benefits your foundation after that, and then of course Chambers Bay for the U.S. Open.   Does this victory give you momentum, give you confidence, as you make this stretch?
RORY McILROY:   I think it does.   It gives me some momentum.   I feel like the confidence has been there.   I feel like my game is very close, even at the Masters.   But to get a win is huge, especially in this stretch, to get a win before the U.S.   It would be nice to win a stroke play event leading into that, I've got a few more chances before I get to Chambers Bay. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT