THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 8, 2015
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  I thought you played very conservative, very smart.  Kept your lines perfectly.  But talk about taking on the 16th hole in that second shot.  RORY McILROY: Yeah, on 16 I just -- I didn't want to cut the ball as much as I did.  I just overcut it, got a little bit ahead of it.  So obviously with that hole and with that pin position, you want to err on the left side.  I just spun out of it too much and got the ball curving too much from left to right, and I made bogey there.  But as you said, felt like I was parring the place to death out there for the most part and picking up my birdies when I could.  I'm only four back going into the weekend, so a lot can happen, and I feel like I'm in a decent position after two days.   Q.  How would you describe the difference between the way you played the front and back?  RORY McILROY: Score-wise they weren't that much different, but I need to just start to hit greens on this front nine.  That's really the -- I scrambled a lot.  I made a lot of good up-and-downs, good pars, and the back nine I felt like I gave myself plenty of chances, hit a lot of greens and didn't quite convert any. I guess the tale of two halves in some ways, but even par for me on this front nine is a decent effort.  I was happy to birdie 9 and disappointed not to at least pick up a shot coming in there.  But anything under par is a decent score, and right in there going into the weekend.   Q.  Talk about laying up there; were you bothered by (inaudible)?  RORY McILROY: No, not really.  No, I just hung it out there to the right with the tee shot.  Second shot I was, I was aiming considerable distance left of the green.  I was aiming it basically on the right edge of those trees and the bunker, and I just put a bit too much cut on it. I'd like to have that shot over again, but I limited the damage, only made a bogey.  That's what you sort of have to do around this course, just keep the mistakes to a minimum and pick off your birdies where you can.   Q.  There was quite a lot of movement and stuff.  Does that bother you?  RORY McILROY: You know, it'll be nice tomorrow with twoballs being able to sort of find a little bit more rhythm out there.  It did feel very slow, even after our start and having to -- we had a few times on the first few holes and caught up with the group ahead pretty quickly.  Yeah, I mean, it's sort of normal these days, five five-and-a-half-hour rounds for the first two rounds of a PGA TOUR event, and that's just sort of the way it is.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  RORY McILROY: Steady.  It was okay.  I mean, I was pretty bored out there.  I'm not sure how you guys felt about watching it (laughing).  Just try and hit fairways, hit greens, pick off my birdies when I could.  Yeah.   Q.  You came on very strong on the weekend last year.  Do you feel like after being pretty far down --  RORY McILROY: Yeah, I mean, I think I birdied the last three holes last year just to make the cut, so a little more comfortable feeling on Friday night.  I'd take those two scores that I shot over the weekend last year again and see where I stand at the end of it.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT