MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 12, 2015
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Some expectation heading in.   How do you assess the four days?
RORY MCILROY:   I played well.   I can take a lot of positives from it.   It is my best ever finish here.   I played the last 45 holes in 15‑under par.   I did a lot of things I wanted to do.   I played the par‑5s well.   Just left myself too much to do after 27 holes of this golf tournament.   40 on the front nine on Friday, that really left me with an uphill battle.   It was just great to get in for the weekend and made the most of a great finish on Friday. 

Q.   How did you view today when you went out there?   Any number in mind, being 10 back?
RORY MCILROY:   Yeah, I thought if I could start fast and shoot 64, it might put some sort of pressure on the guys behind, but I didn't start that fast and got going in the middle of the round, but even that wouldn't really matter.   Jordan just went out and played, it looks like, a really, really solid round of golf.

Q.   How do you characterize what he's done?   You've been where he stands, where so much expectations surrounds you, no one's ever been at 19‑under in the history of this event. 
RORY MCILROY:   Yeah, it's obviously very, very impressive.   I was fortunate enough to feel something pretty similar with my win at Congressional and it's a special time for him to be able to walk up the last hole to enjoy, to see it, to really let it all sink in.   It's not a feeling many people get, especially with their first Major Championship like Tiger had it here in 1997, I was fortunate enough to have it and Jordan is going to have it as well.   It's great for him.   He's been playing great for a 21 year old, he's way more mature than I was at 21 and a hell of a golfer and a great person as well.   So I'm really happy for him.

Q.   What do you think you learned a year ago Rory, that made this possible?
RORY MCILROY:   I think just not getting ahead of yourself.   Just being more comfortable in the position.   You're not ‑‑ he was standing on the ninth tee last year and he's probably like, you know, I'm leading the Masters.   It's a big ‑‑ whenever you realize that ‑‑ he's just more comfortable in the position.   He's had a few more wins since that, and he's closing the deal and he's handling it much better.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT