WGC CADILLAC MATCH PLAY
May 1, 2015
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MICHAEL GIBBONS:   Like to welcome Rory McIlroy into the interview room.   Thoughts on the round?   
RORY McILROY:   Even going back to 16, too, on the play.   Got up and down out of the bunker, that was what was sort of‑‑ that kept me in the match.   And then on 17, he hit a really great shot in there.   And I followed him in and hit a great one, but it just ran on little bit.   And he was‑‑ he obviously would make 3 with a possibility of making 2.   
So it was either hole it or go home.   So just made a really committed stroke, and picked my line, and it was obviously the best play of the whole day.   I thought back to the Ryder Cup, and I held the putt on 17 green when I was playing with Sergio, sort of similar situation.   I needed to hole out or we were basically going to get beaten, so drew a little bit of inspiration from that.   
And then on 18 hit a really good 4‑iron into the green there.   And was a little disappointed with how far I left the putt short.   But it didn't matter in the end.   And I was somehow able to sneak through on extra holes.   
Delighted to be here, and I look forward to the weekend.   
   
 Q.   Rory, 7 of the top 10 in the world will not be playing tomorrow.   Does that mean that this format needs more tweaking or is that just sports?  
RORY McILROY:   It's match play, 18‑hole match play.   I don't think there's any other sport in the world where you get the top 64 guys and the margins are so fine, are so small.   Over 18 holes, especially in this field, anyone can beat anyone.   You really can.   So, I mean, I don't know what else they can do to try and get more of the top ranked guys to the latter stages.   I think I was excited for the format, at least it gives guys a chance if they don't get off to a great start.   So I'd be reluctant to tweak it at this point.   
   
 Q.   What's it like standing on 17 and 18 watching a guy have to putt to win the match?   Are you resigned at that point, angry at that point?  
RORY McILROY:   Sort of hopeful, hopeful he's not going to make it.   Hoping that you get another chance at it.   You're not angry, you're not resigned, you're just hoping for another chance, sort of hopeful.  
   
 Q.   Did you play good today?  
RORY McILROY:   I played solid.   I wouldn't say I played good.   I dug deep when I needed to, making those three birdies on the last three holes.  
   
 Q.   Ryder Cup you haven't even gotten to the quarter finals, but for one match in and of itself, where does this win rank for you in a match play match?  
RORY McILROY:   I'm very proud of myself with how I came back, being 2 down with 2 to play and being able to get the win.   As I said there, it wasn't one of my best performances.   I don't feel that I played very well.   I played solid.   I did what I needed to do.   And that's basically what I've done over the past three days.   I know I'm going to want to progress further in this tournament I'm going to have to up the ante a little bit and play a little bit better.  
   
 Q.   What history do you have with Hideki?   Walker Cup matches, obviously?  
RORY McILROY:   I don't think so.   I played‑‑ I think the first time I played with him was in the first two rounds in The Open Championship in '13 at Muirfield.   He played much better than me those two days.  
I think I might have played with him once or twice with him after that, but obviously a very good player, very solid.   Hits the ball well.   Does everything.   Wouldn't say that he has many weaknesses in his game.   I'm going to have to play well tomorrow.   And I think he's played well in his matches.  
   
 Q.   The Vegas people are just killing me on this.   What exactly is your plan tomorrow if you win in the morning?  
RORY McILROY:   Go in the afternoon and try and win that match.   Bring a change of clothes here, try and avoid you guys, not come in here, go straight to the airport (laughter).  
Honestly I haven't thought that far ahead.   I've just been trying to take it one match at a time.   This obviously takes priority over that.   We'll see what happens.  
   
 Q.   If you're running late, will you still go?  
RORY McILROY:   I'll probably try and sell my tickets and watch it on a big screen here somewhere.  
   
 Q.   On the back nine I think you left, what, a putt on 10, a lip, another one you horseshoed but also you missed some fairways.   The first part of the question is is it driving or putting that has to improve for you tomorrow?   Two, don't you have to file a flight plan 24 hours in advance?  
RORY McILROY:   All the slot has been booked way in advance.   Just a matter of if I make it or not.  
With the driving, I started to miss a few drives to the right on the back nine.   And honestly I feel like it's because my hands got a little cold.   And I just wasn't really‑‑ I felt like my hands were sort of very passive on impact, and I wasn't releasing them the way I usually did.   So I feel like that's the reason I missed a couple of tee shots right.   And if you look at the last three days as a whole, it's definitely the putting that needs to improve if I want to have a chance to win this.   
   
 Q.   What did Billy say when you got on the 20th?  
RORY McILROY:   Just a great match.   He said good something, not that I can repeat it here.   Well, I could repeat it here, but‑‑ but it was, yeah, it was just good match and well fought.   He told me, go and win it, make him feel a little bit better on the weekend.   
   
 Q.   There's been some talk that you guys had had some friction eight years ago.   But certainly watching the last few holes it didn't seem like there was anything‑‑  
RORY McILROY:   No, not as much as Keegan Miguel, apparently (laughter).  
No, never got that bad.   But, no, we were young and pretty high strung in that Walker Cup back in the day and felt like he over‑celebrated a few times.   So I retaliated with a few over‑celebrations of my own.   It went no further than that.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT