MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2015
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MODERATOR:   Good afternoon.   Rory, disappointing finish, but your thoughts on the tournament.   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I got off to a good start.   Sort of the way I wanted to play the front nine.   I had not really played the front nine too well the last couple days, so to play them under par IS nice.   
Made a couple good birdies on 13 and 15.   Felt like the other holes on the back nine were playing pretty tough with the pin positions and a bit of a swirling wind.   
So yeah, got it to 8‑under par through 15, and then a disappointing finish.   But overall felt like I played pretty well; and as I say, just a little disappointed the way I finished.  
   
 Q.   Even going back to yesterday when you started and Jordan had already posted that number, did what he do sort of affect how you game planned then yesterday and today?   Did you have to change up what you planned to do out on the course?   
RORY McILROY:   Not at all.   My game plan is pretty simple around here.   It's to try and par the tough holes and pick off your birdies on the more gettable holes, like the par 5s and a couple of the shorter par 4s.   
   
 Q.   As the world No. 1, you obviously have a target on your back.   But Jordan's made no bones about the fact that he would like to get to No. 1.   Do you feel that, him breathing down your neck more acutely now?   
RORY McILROY:   No, not really.   I just have to worry about myself and try and play the best that I can.   I know if I do that, then that No. 1 position is pretty safe.   
But yeah, I mean, he's obviously been playing great golf since the end of last year, a couple of wins and winning again and being in contention, basically, every time he plays.   He's playing very well, but I know I have the capability to do the same thing.   
   
 Q.   You were Jordan's age, I believe, in 2011.   What was that Saturday night like for you sleeping on the lead; not that you want to offer him advice, but what do you think he'll be going through?  
RORY McILROY:   I think the good thing for him is he's already experienced it once.   He's played in the final group at the Masters before.   It didn't quite happen for him last year, but I think he'll have learned from that experience.   I think all that put together, he'll definitely handle it a lot better than I did.  
   
 Q.   Did you look at your phone that night?   I remember Chubby Chandler made a comment that you shouldn't look at your phone.   
RORY McILROY:   Did I look at my phone?   Yeah, I'm sure I did.   
   
 Q.   What's an example of the softness of the course making a difference on any particular hole as far as the way you would play it different from another year here?   
RORY McILROY:   Not really‑‑ it is softer than previous years.   I guess I hit it short on 15 and the ball didn't come back into the water.   I guess that's an example of it being a little softer, a little slower.   
But yeah, with some of these back hole positions today, as well, it would have been nice to have firmer greens to try and run the ball up, but it's tough to get it back there when the greens are quite soft.   
Yeah, it's still‑‑ the greens are getting a little firmer and the course is getting a little faster, but it's still very playable out there.   
   
 Q.   I know you said that you didn't do anything consciously different today as far as the lead goes with just one round to go, will you change up anything to try to be more aggressive and make a run?   
RORY McILROY:   You know, everyone knows‑‑ we all know pretty much where the pin positions are going to be tomorrow.   And there's some holes that you can get close to and be aggressive and there's some holes that you can't.   So again, try and get off to a good start like I did today, and if I can do that, you know, it really depends on what the guys do the back nine.   
But if I was to go out and shoot 30, yeah, it's going to‑‑ look, I'm going to need something basically around 61, 62 to have a real chance.   I'm not sure that's going to happen but we'll see.  
   
 Q.   Could you take us through the second shot you had at 15, what you faced there?   Secondly, I know one thing you were looking to do is take better care of the par5s and you've done that.   What's been the biggest difference?  
RORY McILROY:   I had 209 to the pin on 15, and I was trying to turn over a 7‑iron.   I felt like the wind was helping just a bit and especially it was off the right.   So I was trying to hit a hard draw with a 7‑iron to get the most out of it and the most out of the wind.   Just caught it a hair, a hair skinny.   Probably could have got five yards more out of it and didn't and just came up short.  
You know, I've played them more conservatively, the par 5s.   When I put myself in a good position off the tee, I just try to hit it in the middle of the green and take my two putts.   
A couple of times, once yesterday on 13, I hit it close and made eagle; and today held a good putt off the green on 2 for eagle.   Just played them a little more conservatively or smartly and missed it in the right areas when I have and been able to get it down.   That's why I am whatever I am for the par, 11 under for the par 5s.   
   
 Q.   You've played here seven times now and it seems like a lot of the times, there's been a 9‑ or 18‑hole stretch where it's been close but you've taken out of it.   Curious what you've taken from the seven trips here and what you feel like you need to improve on?   You just referenced the par 5s and you handled that.   What do you think it is that's been the difference for you that's held you back?  
RORY McILROY:   I don't know, silly mistakes.   I missed a couple of short ones yesterday on greens.   
Yeah, I don't really know.   I definitely feel like I play this golf course better and better every year that I come here.   I don't know, I just need to keep putting numbers up like I did today.   I know I'm capable of it.   And as you said, just a few stretches of holes have held me back and that's really been the case this year again.   
   
 Q.   Do you think all the expectation about the Grand Slam at the start of the week has had an effect on you this week, or do you think you've managed to shut it out?   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I've really just tried to treat it like a normal golf tournament or treat it like any other year.   Any other year that I've came to the Masters, I've done the same things.   
Yeah, I was approaching it like‑‑ I wasn't approaching it like I was trying to win the Grand Slam.   I was approaching it like I was trying to win another golf tournament.   So I don't think it's really had any impact on the way I've played this week.   
MODERATOR:   Thank you very much.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT