MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2015
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   (No Microphone.)  
RORY MCILROY:   It's really, really impressive.   I think a few guys can still catch him.   It will take, obviously, something extraordinary from myself to get up there, but you never know.   I know better than most people what can happen with the lead around here.   
But Jordan's had the experience.   He had the experience last year.   He had a couple shot lead and couldn't quite hold on to it.   But he'll have learned from that and he'll definitely handle it better this time around.   
   
 Q.   As much as you struggled on the front nine and were struggling with your game at times, Rory, there has been the brilliance still there, glimpses of it.   Can you put your finger on what it is that is stopping that from just flowing?  
RORY MCILROY:   Yeah, you know, I don't know.   Just, again, here, it's such a fine line.   The margin for error is so small.   Missing it in the wrong places sometimes and I missed a couple of really short putts back there, and that affected my confidence a little bit.   But there's a few things like that.   
But the good golf is in there.   It's just a matter of trying to get rid of the bad stuff, which was all on the front nine today.   
   
 Q.   You've been here and done it, but can the pressure and expectation thing, is it bigger than maybe you thought it was or is that not a factor at all?  
RORY MCILROY:   Not a factor at all, to be honest.   No.   I know, any of the bad golf, the bad shots I hit out there the last couple of days, I can't put that down to what it would mean or what I was playing for.   I'm just trying to go out there and play the best golf I possibly can and that's about it.   
   
 Q.   On the front nine 40, I know you said something to yourself walking off the ninth green, and you turned it around in 31.   
RORY MCILROY:   Yeah, at that point I was just trying to ‑‑ I was trying to get myself back to even par for the Tournament.   And then I did that pretty quickly on the back nine, which is nice.   
And then I was trying to get into the red numbers and it was a nice chip‑in at 17, a nice way to finish with a birdie at the last.   So, even though it was an up‑and‑down round, I finished on a high note and at least make myself feel a little bit better going into the weekend.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel like right now that you can still win this?  
RORY MCILROY:   You know, really, I would need to shoot a 14‑under par weekend and Jordan would have to play a couple average rounds, and neither of those two things look like they're going to happen, so it's going to be tough.   
I'll go out and try and play the best that I can and we'll see where that leaves me.   But, a few more nine holes like the one I just had there, you never know.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT