ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 21, 2015
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Rory, just wanted to talk about your round today and the finish there, also.  
RORY MCILROY:   Everything was going really well for 13 holes.   Got myself right into the tournament and then three bogies in quick succession.   
And starting with -- I didn't hit the best of iron shots on 14 and didn't get up and down there.   15, you know, my ball hit a spike mark with my second putt.   3-putts there.   Then 16 was just a messy three holes.   
But, you know, there was parts of the round that were good.   I have to concentrate on that and focus on the positives and try and take those into tomorrow.   Try to get off to a fast start.   
If I shoot 30, 31 on the front-9 get myself back into it.   You never know.   Just try and finish the tournament off as best I can tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Are there more things you like to work on?  
RORY MCILROY:   Competitive golf is always good, just to sort of highlights what you still need to work on.   There's times when I'm really comfortable and then times that I'm still not too comfortable so it's highlighted a couple of different things but for the most part I've got what I wanted out of it.   It would have been nice to have the lead going into tomorrow but I'll try and make those few shots back that I left out there today and maybe, you know, give myself a chance on the back-9.  
   
 Q.   Talking about wanting to be in contention this week.   Does this count?  
RORY MCILROY:   Not anymore.   I guess if I can get off to the fast start tomorrow and maybe if I can get like 4-under through 6 or 5-under through 9 or something, maybe I will have a chance but on the back-9, as I say it would have been nicer to be a little closer to the lead going into tomorrow but I'm still there and I good score tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Rory, when you got to the course and you saw the low scores, what was your mindset?   Did it change?  
RORY MCILROY:   Not really.   This is a golf course if you can take care of the par-5s and pick a couple shots up elsewhere, you know, that's always -- you're always going to do well.   That's sort of what I did yesterday.   That's sort of been the game plan the last three days and I felt like I was doing that quite well up until 13 today.   Just trying to adopt the same approach again tomorrow and see what happens.  
   
 Q.   What about 14?  
RORY MCILROY:   Technical version or the simple version?   I just -- the club just got a little out in front of me and it was sort of -- I cut across it.   I toed the iron shot basically and came up quite a long way short.   It was a little bit out of the blue.   More disappointed not getting up and down because it was relatively easy, straightforward chip and run.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT