WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 7, 2015
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Was it better today?   
RORY McILROY:   It was all right.   Yeah, honestly, I felt like I hit it a little better today.   Controlled my ball flight a little better.   Hit some shots that were quite pleasing.   But still, it's a tricky day out there with the wind and the wind being in a different direction than it has been the last couple of days.   
So I mean, it would have been nice to shoot something under par, something in the 60s.   But even par out there today, as you can see, isn't that bad a score.   
   
 Q.   What can you take out of this week‑‑  
RORY McILROY:   Guess I've just got to see where everyone stands at the end of today.   I mean, I'm only three or four shots off the top 5, so you can go out and maybe make a few birdies and try and limit the mistakes and you never know.   Shot 65 here a couple years ago to get myself into the Top‑10.   Try and do something similar tomorrow.   
My iron play‑‑ my iron play just isn't really where I want it to be, so everything else feels good.   I'm driving the ball pretty well.   Hitting it good off the tee.   Yeah, just not giving myself enough opportunities from hitting good tee shots, and I think that's the one thing I need to work on a little bit.   
   
 Q.   The start to your year‑‑  
RORY McILROY:   A little bit of both.   It's surprising, I felt coming off the two starts in the Middle East, I was playing well, but I guess the wind over the last couple weeks has just exposed a couple things that I need to work on.   So in that regard, it has not been a bad thing.   But there wasn't much wind in Abu Dhabi and Dubai and I could sort of get away with it a little bit, where you really need to control your ball flight better in conditions like this.   The last couple of weeks, I just haven't really done that.   
   
 Q.   There has not been a wire‑to‑wire winner‑‑ what makes that so hard?   
RORY McILROY:   I don't know, really, depth, the strength of the fields, depth of the fields‑‑  
   
 Q.   Is it hard to not play to protect the lead‑‑  
RORY McILROY:   I think you have to learn how to do that.   I think that's something that just sort of comes from experience.   
   
 Q.   The 3‑iron, did you use it‑‑  
RORY McILROY:   No, I played with 13 clubs today.   Didn't need it.   
   
 Q.   Talk about fan enthusiasm.   Seems like a lot of fans whether you're doing well or not so well they are very enthusiastic?  
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, it is.   It's fantastic.   I feel like I get a lot of great support no matter where I go, which is great.   It definitely helps when you're not having such a good day.   
But no, it's great.   I feel like I've got a good fan base, the way I play, sort of guess how I handle myself, minus the club throwing in the water yesterday.   But yeah, it's nice to have the support.  
   
 Q.   When you hear fans say, get in the hole‑‑  
RORY McILROY:   I think it's just a cool things to do these days, get in the hole, marked potato, all that stuff.  
   
 Q.   Why would you not put a 14th club?   
RORY McILROY:   I guess I looked where pin positions were and where the tees were and I didn't need a 3‑iron and I felt good with the wedges that I have in the bag this week.   I just went with what I had.   
   
 Q.   Have you ever done that before?   
RORY McILROY:   Probably not.   
   
 Q.   Is the 3‑iron alive?   
RORY McILROY:   I don't know.   
   
 Q.   Still plenty of tournament ahead‑‑  
RORY McILROY:   Just play Bay Hill and then a couple of weeks to prepare for Augusta.   
   
 Q.   Did that pin placement on 4 looked like it would give two hole‑in‑ones?   
RORY McILROY:   Did it?   No, definitely not, especially the way the wind blows because the wind was sort of hard off to the right.   You're going to have to play a pretty gutsy shot to start it right at that pin.  
   
 Q.   So Dustin and J.B.‑‑  
RORY McILROY:   Both had a hole‑in‑one?   
   
 Q.   Within three groups, 7‑iron?  
RORY McILROY:   No way.   That's why I'm not leading the tournament (laughter).   
   
 Q.   Are you a little concerned, I know you talked about your iron game but a lot of times you can make adjustments during rounds and kind of find it or fix it.   Obviously it sounds like you haven't been able to do that.   Are you concerned about that part of the equation, as well?  
RORY McILROY:   It's more I know exactly what it is.   Because I can play with it, it's not like I can play‑‑ it's just a predominately left‑to‑right ball flight and I've been struggling in left‑to‑right winds, like on the last hole there, to try to turn it back into, which I usually am so comfortable doing it.   So that's all it is.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT