WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 6, 2015
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What was the distance on 8?   
RORY McILROY:   The second shot or the throw?   (Laughing) must have went a good 60, 70 yards I think.  
   
 Q.   Can you laugh at it?   
RORY McILROY:   Felt good at the time.   
Yeah, I mean, look, I just let frustration get the better of me.   It was heat of the moment, and I mean, if it had of been any other club I probably wouldn't have but I didn't need a 3‑iron for the rest of the round so I thought, why not.   (Laughter).  
   
 Q.   Did you actually think of it‑‑  
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, there was a split second like should I or shouldn't I, whatever.   But it was‑‑ looking back at it, it isn't one of my proudest moments.   But you know, walked away with a bogey and regrouped and did okay from then.   
   
 Q.   Seemed to kick‑start you a little bit after that.   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, it was more, I needed a‑‑ yeah, when you're struggling and it's just‑‑ you need something to just give you a spark or give you‑‑ and I'm not saying that was it, but could of been.   But played a little better on the back nine, but still just not as comfortable with my game as I'd like.   
So, you know, I've got two more days to try and find something out there and shoot a couple of decent numbers and see where that leaves me at the end of the week.  
   
 Q.   Henrik was said he was the first one to come up to you; what did he say?  
RORY McILROY:   He said, "Well, if you can't get on SportsCenter with your play, at least you can do it with something else."   He was quite funny.   He's been prone to doing a thing or two like that in the past, as well, so he can relate.   
   
 Q.   Do you remember the last time you did it?   
RORY McILROY:   Like that, never.   I've never done it like that.   I've hit the bag.   But I've never went at it that hard.   
   
 Q.   Are you looking forward to seeing it?   
RORY McILROY:   I did.   I did, yeah.   
   
 Q.   You were very athletic, did you think?   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I mean, it was‑‑ I don't know, I guess it was decent form but I don't know (laughs).  
   
 Q.   Is it the frustrating nature of the game‑‑ whether it's just a guy teeing it up in the morning?  
RORY McILROY:   I think every golfer feels it because I don't hit shots like the one I hit on 8 on the range.   So that's what really bothers me, the fact that I get out on the course and I hit shots that I'm not seeing when I'm in a more relaxed environment.   
So it's a little bit of mental, a little bit of physical.   It's just everything is not quite matching up.   
   
 Q.   What will you do for a 3‑iron tomorrow?   
RORY McILROY:   Well, I usually don't play with a 3‑iron.   That's the thing.   I usually go 4‑iron, 5‑wood and carry four wedges.   I can either put an extra wedge in the bag or‑‑ I think there is a 3‑iron on the way:   Either Sean called the SCUBA diving team, or Nike, one or the other.   
So yeah, there is one there if I need it.   But yeah, as I said, if it probably was any other club, I wouldn't have done it.   
   
 Q.   For doing that‑‑  
RORY McILROY:   I actually said, I saw him‑‑ I was walking with JP on 10 or 11, and I saw my dad sort of up there outside the ropes.   And I said to him, wonder what my dad's going to say after that.   But no, he'll be fine.   He realizes it is what it is, and sometimes it happens and just move on and try not do it again.  
   
 Q.   Does this course bring that out of you?   
RORY McILROY:   I don't think it's the course.   I think it's just more my play.   It's just more being frustrated with myself rather than that because you can get frustrated with a golf course but that was all me.   It's just how I'm swinging it, how I'm hitting it.   I'm just not quite a hundred percent with it.   
   
 Q.   Are you thinking eagle when you're standing over that second shot; is that part of the frustration?  
RORY McILROY:   No, not at all.   Where that pin was, it's more just try and hit it on the center of the green and play for your 4, not be super aggressive and get out of there with a birdie.   
Especially after‑‑ I think one of the most frustrating things is I just made a great putt on 7 for birdie, so it just throw it away like that was‑‑ I did the same on 3 and 4.   I made birdies on 1 and 2, bogeyed 3 and 4, so I just felt like I was doing the exact same thing over again and don't like making the same mistake twice, and that's what I did.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT