WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 6, 2015
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   It was a bit of a battle but it adds up to a 2‑under par 70.   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, it wasn't the easiest 2‑under par in the world, but somehow I managed to get it around.   Just don't feel 100 percent comfortable with my game.   I'm just not quite there.   
The plane of the swing coming down just isn't quite where I wanted, and losing shots to the left and to the right.   Need to do a little bit of work over the weekend and try and straighten it out.   But battled along nicely, and 2‑under par putts me in a decent position going into tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   You referenced the grinding, you really got the most out of today's round.   You fought the swing some, but what about the conditions out there, how hot actually is it playing?  
RORY McILROY:   I didn't feel like it was playing that hard today.   It was playing much more difficult yesterday with the wind.   I felt the greens are still pretty receptive.   It was a bit of a lighter breeze today.   I felt like if anything, the lower scores could have been shot today, even though they were shot yesterday.   
Yeah, maybe it was a little bit‑‑ I felt a tiny bit more comfortable with my game today than I did yesterday but I still felt there was a low number out there.   
   
 Q.   Obviously got to ask you about what happened on the 8th, I guess emotions got the better of you.   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, they did.   It's just frustrating when you feel like it's quite close and it's just you're hitting balls in the water and you're doing things usually don't do.   
It's been funny, when I've been trying to hit a cut, I hit a draw; and when I try to hit a draw, I hit a cut.   It's just not quite there so just need to do a little bit of work over the weekend.   
Yeah, what happened after the second shot on 8, I wouldn't encourage anyone to do; especially if there's kids watching at home.   First of all, it's expensive and second of all, you shouldn't do it.   But yeah, it was one of those things that heat of the moment, and you know, we'll move on.   
   
 Q.   Pretty out of character for you, though.   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I mean, if you would have asked me this ten years ago as a moody teenager, it wouldn't have been out of character but I think I've mellowed since then.   Yeah, it was just frustration got the better of me.  
   
 Q.   Plenty of birdies on your scorecard, indicative of what you've been saying that it isn't that far away?  
RORY McILROY:   It isn't far away.   Just making silly mistakes and a couple ball in the water on the front nine and a couple putts on the back.   I feel like I got a lot out of the round today considering how I played, but yeah, I'm just not 100 percent comfortable with it all at the minute and just do a little bit of work over the weekend and try and straight ten out.  
   
 Q.   Is it just something that you could just sort of sort out on the range, given the time and the fact that there's no cut here, you still have the competitive action, as well?   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, it's a great weekend for that.   It's also‑‑ I don't feel like I'm too far away.   It's a good start and all of a sudden you're into the top five at some point during the front nine tomorrow, so try and go out with that mind‑set but just need to figure something out.   As you saw out there, it's quite frustrating at times.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT