ABU DHABI HSBC GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 18, 2015
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Eventful day out there for everyone out there.   How was it for you? 
RORY McILROY:   Once I started getting JP to read putts, it was a lot better.   I started off pretty slowly again and then we just sort of figured out we would try and read them together, and it helped.   I counted, I went 13 or 14 holes in a row without a birdie from yesterday and today. 
It was nice to finally get it going, but just that little stretch yesterday and then early on today sort of cost me the tournament. 

Q.   And how aware were you of what was going on behind you today? 
RORY McILROY:   I was told on the 15th tee that Martin had made triple on 13.   So I knew with a good finish, you never know what could happen.   I was pretty aware; the last sort of four or five holes, I knew I was in there with a chance.

Q.   And you were trying to win the opportunity, but no one knows better than you the emotions of a final round.   Did you have any feelings about him at all?
RORY McILROY:   Going out today, my goal today was to finish second.   I didn't think I was going to get close to winning the golf tournament.   I think Martin was ten ahead at one point. 
You think from there, there's only one winner, but just shows you, funny things can happen in this game.   If you just sort of plug away and stay patient, your time will come I guess.   But just a little too late for me today.

Q.   Dubai in a couple of weeks' time.   What do you do in between time?
RORY McILROY:   I'll stay here, stay out in the Middle East and practice and get my game in shape for Dubai.   It feels very good.   I feel like it's been a great week because I feel like there's a couple of things to work on and hopefully that will make me perform even better in a couple weeks' time. 

Q.   Close again in Abu Dhabi?
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I think it's going to be my fourth second here in the last five years.   Yeah, I played well today.   I left myself with too much to do after yesterday, and even the slow start today, when I felt like I played very well and wasn't capitalising on my chances.   But JP and I started to read the putts together on the‑‑ I guess on the eighth hole, and from there, I started to make a lot of birdies. 
So, yeah, I just didn't quite have it on the greens this week, but luckily it came right at the end. 

Q.   I dare want to say, this is a little closer than expectations at the start of the day.   When did you fancy you had a chance? 
RORY McILROY:   I found out on the 15th tee that Martin had made a triple‑bogey.   So at that point, I think I was a couple behind, and then I made birdie on 15 to go one behind.   But obviously Gary made a couple of birdies at that point, as well.   But for the last four or five holes, I felt like I had a little bit of a chance.

Q.   Are there plenty of positives to take out of the week. 
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, definitely.   I hit every green today in regulation.   My only bogey was a 3‑putt.   You know, tee‑to‑green, I can't fault that.   I feel like I'm hitting the ball very, very well.   Obviously I didn't putt as well as I would have liked this week, but all parts of my game feel pretty good. 

Q.   And you won't have crossed paths with Gary Stal that often, but an impressive performance. 
RORY McILROY:   Very impressive; coming off The Challenge Tour.   I've seen him a few times in the gym this week and he seems like he likes the gym and he's in decent shape.   But yeah, it's great to shoot a final round 65 and win with a field like this is impressive.

Q.   And your plans, just down the road, Dubai next up? 
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, Dubai.   I'm going to head to Dubai this week in between where some of the guys are going to Qatar, and practice and get ready for the Desert Classic in a couple weeks' time. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT