THE HONDA CLASSIC
February 26, 2015
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about the change in challenge today?   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, the conditions were obviously very tricky from the start.   You know, from the first hole, it was always going to be a day like that.   
I feel like I salvaged something out of the round the last couple holes, but it was just a day to keep trying, not to give up and know that anything around level, 1‑, 2‑over par still isn't out of it.   
So wasn't quite what I wanted, but hopefully tomorrow morning we get calmer conditions and we're able to give ourselves a few more opportunities and make some birdies.   
   
 Q.   What happened on 1?   
RORY McILROY:   Funny, I felt like the wind was more into but once the ball‑‑ even Dustin's ball, once it got out there, the wind just took it to the right.   I was just trying to play a normal sort of straight shot there and I didn't really try and do much with it.   
Even the second ball I hit, I tried to put some draw on it and the wind still moved it to the right.   It was very strong out there and very difficult to control the ball.  
   
 Q.   At one point, the threesome was 20‑over.   Not to bring up a brutal number, but what were the dynamics and what were you saying to each other?   
RORY McILROY:   I mean, walking from 14 green to 15 tee, I said to Brooks, let's just make a couple birdies on the way in, try and get something out of it.   Luckily I was sort of able to do that.   
But yeah, it was tough.   When nothing's going your way and you don't really have anything to feed off, you don't see many good shots and guys, we're all struggling, it was a grind out there.   As I said, we'll all go home and put our feet up tonight and get ready for tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Do you see the difference between how the round started and how it ends with the back‑to‑back birdies; does that make you feel more confident heading into tomorrow?  
RORY McILROY:   A little bit.   I shot better today than I did the previous time I played here, so it's a little bit of an accomplishment.   
Yeah, the wind started to die down for us the last few holes.   And I looked at the forecast for tomorrow morning, and it doesn't look as bad.   It looks nice, five to ten‑mile‑an‑hour wind, so hopefully with the conditions, it will be a little easier and enable us to hopefully shoot some better scores.  
   
 Q.   What are the mental and physical challenges today?   
RORY McILROY:   I feel like it's a physical challenge from tee‑to‑green.   But I think once you get on the greens, it's more mental and trusting yourself, trusting that the wind is going to move the ball on the green.   You have to factor that in when you're reading a putt.   I think that's one of the most difficult things playing on a day like today.   
   
 Q.   On 12‑‑  
RORY McILROY:   5‑iron on 18.   I it got up a little bit on me but just one of those one, hit in the middle of the green, 2‑putt and get out of there.   
   
 Q.   So you don't beat yourself up too much today‑‑  
RORY McILROY:   Not at all.   I'm coming off a three‑week break and tough conditions to come back out in.   I knew that my game is there.   Today wasn't obviously what I wanted to start with, but you know, if I can get it into red numbers tomorrow, you know, I'm right back in the tournament.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT