ABU DHABI HSBC GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 17, 2015
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  RORY McILROY:   I just didn't putt well at all.   I didn't really putt well yesterday to be honest, but yeah, very disappointed.   
   
 Q.   Hate to tell you the stats, but you only missed two fairways, one green.   It had 66, 65, written all over it, didn't it?  
RORY McILROY:   It did.   Yeah, I hit the ball just as well as I did yesterday.   Gave myself so many chances and didn't convert any, really.   Yeah, very wasteful today, and obviously playing for second place it looks like tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   It goes to show in this game, doesn't it, that you have never ever gotten it beat, ever, even world No. 1?  
RORY McILROY:   No, never.   You're always improving, try to get better.   I'm going to have to do something a bit better on the greens tomorrow to shoot a good number and finish the tournament off well.   
   
 Q.   Let's forget about golf because you're pretty good about that.   What are you going to do tonight to cheer yourself; do something, please.   
RORY McILROY:   I don't know, I think I've probably got a couple of commitments for HSBC to do, so I'll do those and get myself packed up.   I don't know, just have a good night's sleep and try and forget about what happened today.  
   
 Q.   What is the verdict on round three?   
RORY McILROY:   I mean, can't really fault my game from tee‑to‑green, but I just couldn't hole anything at all.   I held a couple of putts, but I don't know, struggled to read them, struggled with the pace.   Struggled basically with everything, so   good enough, and looks like I'm playing for second place tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Which sounds incredibly frustrating, but presumably you still try to take the positives; there's a lot of good things going on?  
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, from tee‑to‑green, I've never felt more comfortable.   I'm driving the ball great.   I think I missed two fairways and one green today.   So that sort of golf is very good.   It's just a matter of capitalizing on the chances that you give yourself, and I didn't do that today.  
   
 Q.   You very graciously said it would be hard to close a two‑stroke gap from Martin Kaymer where you finished yesterday.   What are your thoughts now?  
RORY McILROY:   Again, as I said, it's trying to win the other tournament.   He's playing in something a little different than everyone else.   I think I'm two behind, maybe three, depending on what Thomas does at the last of him and second place, and try and catch him.   It's obviously very unrealistic that I'm going to catch Martin tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Just to sum up today, tee‑to‑green, it's still very, very good but the scoring shoes were   on today.   
RORY McILROY:   No,   at all.   I tried to stay as patient as possible, but just it was very frustrating.   Kept giving myself birdie chances and   being able to convert any of them.   So it was disappointing to say the least.   But go out tomorrow, try and shoot a good score, and finish the week on a positive.   
   
 Q.   And can you put into context for us just how impressive a display of the first three days we've witnessed from Martin Kaymer.   I know you weren't playing with him but you'll have seen his score.   
RORY McILROY:   He got off to a very hot start again.   He's so comfortable around this golf course, and he's obviously playing well.   So that combination is going to be very hard to beat.   Yeah, it looks like he's going to have a five or six‑shot lead going into tomorrow, and he'll be pretty much impossible to beat from there.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT