ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 5, 2014
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Was the turning point on 17?   
    RORY McILROY:   Yeah, it is what it is.   I didn't really leave myself much of a chance there.   If you're going to miss it, you need to miss it right there and I didn't.   It was tough‑‑ it was a tough up‑and‑down anyway.   I got a good up‑and‑down out of the bunker.   
    Yeah, you know, where I feel like I cost myself the tournament today was probably in the space of about 20 yards at the front of the green at the first and over at the road hill bunker.   Not too far away from each other.   They are the two things, the only mistakes that I made all day.  
   
 Q.   And yet you must love your chances here next year?  
    RORY McILROY:   Of course.   I love this golf course.   I feel like I play well here every time I tee it up.   So, yeah, looking forward to obviously coming back here in July and defending The Open Championship.   
   
 Q.   Is there any fatigue at this point or are you feeling as fresh as ever?   
    RORY McILROY:   Look, I'm not 100 percent.   It's a nice stroll around there.   My excitement level didn't get above about three at any point during the round.   I'm ready for a break.   I'm ready for a rest.   
   
 Q.   Most impressive thing this year has been your acceptance; is that something that you'd agree?   
    RORY McILROY:   It's easy to accept these things when you have two Majors in the bag, you know what I mean, same as the FedExCup, same as everything else that's happened after the summer.   It's easy to accept these things when you have played so well and there are a couple of major trophies on your mantelpiece.   
    I'm really happy with how I'm playing and that's the big thing, and that's what will see me through for hopefully a prolonged period of time.   Even if you don't get the wins, you know that you're still playing well and you're going to keep giving yourself chances.  
   
 Q.   Dare I suggest acceptance helps you get the majors, as well?  
    RORY McILROY:   Of course it does.   Everything helps.   But my mind‑set has been really good this year.   I've found some sort of calmness on the course or inner peace or whatever you want to call it.   I'm really just going out there every round that I play in and enjoying it and putting everything into it.   It's working.   
   
 Q.   What you do from here on?  
    RORY McILROY:   I'm going home to Northern Ireland for five days and then I'll go to Bermuda for the Grand Slam, and then I'm back in Ireland for four days, and then I'm off to Dubai for a week before China to practice and do a bit of a training week.   Then, yeah, back at it, two in China, two in Dubai, Australia, done.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT