ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 3, 2014
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   24 holes.   6‑under for the last 12.   What changed?  
    RORY McILROY:   I think the eagle on 16 today sort of kick started something for me.   I just went from there, started to knock a few putts in.   I felt like I struck the ball pretty well for the first couple of days, but just to see a few putts roll in sort of gave me a little bit of confidence and played well after that.  
   
 Q.   Your father introduced you to this game.   Are you the boss out there?   Are you the boss out there now?   Do you tell him what to do?   Do you take advice?  
    RORY McILROY:   Not really, no.   No, he's his own man when he's out on the course.   We're getting to play a bit more golf these days again together, but it's great to be able to play some of the best golf courses in the world with him, and we've got some good memories of this tournament.  
   
 Q.   PGA TOUR player of the year for the second time.   What does that mean to you being voted by the players?  
    RORY McILROY:   It means an awful lot.   You know, anytime you're recognized by your peers, you know, they're the guys that you're trying to beat week in, week out, and they're the guys that see all the hard work that you put in and appreciate it.   So it's nice that they do recognize that.   And you know, I had to beat a lot of other great players this year, too, that award.   Very honored to have won it for the second time in the last three years.  
   
 Q.   Just briefly, your thoughts on tomorrow.   You going to get your dad through to Sunday for his birthday?  
    RORY McILROY:   I do.   We made a big stride today.   We shot 11 under today, so we're 13 total.   We reckon around 21, 22 will hopefully get us in to make the cut so we can play on Sunday.   So that's the goal.   Obviously I want to play well, and you're only a few off the lead, and I've played very well at St. Andrews before, so hopefully I can shoot a low one and he can contribute somewhat and we're both walking up that 18th on Sunday afternoon.  
   
 Q.   Good luck with that.   Rory, after everything you've done this year, is it at all difficult to get yourself up for this tournament?  
    RORY McILROY:   Yeah.   Of course it is, yeah.   But you know, I really wanted to come here and play with my dad and just enjoy the week like that.   St. Andrews is always a place that I enjoy coming to, and we have a good time here.  
    You know, if I was to pick a tournament to play after what happened last week and stuff, this would probably be it just because it is nice and relaxed and you can go out and have a good time.  
   
 Q.   You talked about the eagle on the 16th.   Did that really almost gave you a kick?  
    RORY McILROY:   Yeah, it was.  
   
 Q.   You can go back to almost being a really serious competitor again?  
    RORY McILROY:   Yeah, once I got that and got myself back to even par, I felt like if I could get myself to four or five under par for the tournament, which I was able to do, then I'd at least have a chance going into the weekend.   So you know, I've got hopefully two good days ahead of me at St. Andrews, a golf course I've done well at before, and you know, the weather forecast seems a bit better tomorrow as well, so hopefully we can enjoy that.  
   
 Q.   If you were to win, what would winning at St. Andrews mean to you?  
    RORY McILROY:   It would mean an awful lot, obviously.   I haven't won there before.   I've been close a couple of times, but yeah, it would mean an awful lot.   But if I didn't, you know, I wouldn't mind waiting until July next year.  
   
 Q.   Can you give us the details of the eagle?  
    RORY McILROY:   I had a driver, and I had 275 yards.   I hit a 3‑wood to maybe 15 feet, holed the putt.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT