ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 5, 2020
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Slow start. A couple unforced errors. What did you do to get it clicked in?
RORY MCILROY: Yeah, I think, looking back on the day, one of the biggest shots of the day was the key putt on 11. It started giving me a little bit of momentum. Obviously, it was an unforced error with the second shot. The missed putt on 12 was actually a decent putt. I just got a little complacent with it. I thought it was straight in and it broke left. But then after that, the birdie on 16 to get back to even, the birdie on 18 to get, turn in 1-under. And then I started to get going, hit some really good shots on the way in and took advantage of the par-5s and did everything pretty well for about the last 12 or 13 holes.
Q. Knowing you got the good end of the draw, the wind's going to continue to pick up, is there any extra added pressure to try to get good rounds, good score in, good birdies?
RORY MCILROY: I mean, sort of. I think it was more I, when I was 1-over par I looked at the board and Sam Burns was already like 6-under, so I was like, Geez, I got to do something here. I got to get going. But then, yeah, I think this course is all about staying patient. If you can play the par-5s well, you should be there at the end of the week.
Q. So a lot of the wind -- a lot of wind out here. Do you like to practice in the wind or are you going to shut it down?
RORY MCILROY: No, I'll shut it down. I don't think there's any point. It's hot as well. It's getting hot. And I'll just rest up and maybe go to the Magic Kingdom and then get ready for tomorrow.
Q. 1-over par after 6, 7-under thereafter. What changed?
RORY MCILROY: Yeah, I don't know. I made a couple unforced errors starting off. I hit it in the water on 11. Actually made a good bogey in the end, holed a good putt for bogey. And then I missed the little one on 12. I think with the start and then turning in under par, birdieing 16, birdieing 18, sort of had a bit of a good pep in my step going into the first tee and then I played some great golf after that. I hit two great shots into 1, the shots into 2, holed a good eagle putt on 4. I got a bit of momentum and I kept it going until the end.
Q. I was looking through your highlights and it jumped out to me, the shot from the bunker on the 4th, talk us through the detail, because it looked a bit special.
RORY MCILROY: Harry said that's the best shot I've hit all year, so, you know, high praise from him. Yeah, I had 260. It was in between 3-iron and 5-wood and I sort of -- 5-wood was going to carry up on top, but it had a chance to go over the back of the green and that chip from over the back to that back pin is really tricky. So I said to Harry, If I can catch this 3-iron good and maybe pitch 10 or 15 short, maybe trundle up the hill. But short was always better than long. And it just came out perfectly and got up to pin high. And yeah, it was good to convert on that and make eagle.
Q. Finally, Radar was walking around here yesterday and he actually says, Rory turns up and it's, like, is it going to be 3-under, 4-under, or more when he goes out and plays. Tiger, in his prime used to say that par almost seemed like a 68. With how you're playing now and the consistency, do you set a different par for yourself when you're going out, even on a course like this?
RORY MCILROY: No, I mean, I think -- so, for Bay Hill I, think this course has always been about the par-5s. If you can play the par-5s well, you can play the rest of the course pretty conservatively and pick your spots. I mean, you're hitting irons off a lot of tees here, but if you can play the par-5s well -- I mean, that's what -- Tiger's won here seven or eight times, whatever it is, he killed the par-5s. He then could pick and choose where he was going to be aggressive. And just sort of trying to follow that plan because it worked pretty well for him.
Q. Slow start today. 1-over through the first 6, but you end up shooting 66. Talk about how you played and what turned it around for you early.
RORY MCILROY: Yeah, as I said over there, I think one of the biggest or best shots that I hit today was my bogey putt on 11. I hit it in the water and then hit a very mediocre chip shot. But to hole that putt for bogey, you know, it's not -- making 5 instead of 6 there is a big deal. I didn't convert with making a birdie at the next, but 1-over through 2 instead of 2-over is sort of a different feeling. And to turn that nine around and turn in 1-under par, I sort of felt pretty good about myself going to the front nine. And then I had some really good shots coming in. Drove it really well. I worked a little bit on my driving over the last few days. I didn't think it was quite up to par over the first three tournaments of the year. So I think I only missed one or two fairways today, and if you can do that around this place, especially with how juicy the rough is, you're going to give yourself a lot of chances.
Q. I was going to ask you about the course conditions. They were telling us over 13 on the Stimpmeter on the greens. Is that what it felt like?
RORY MCILROY: No, I mean, I think they have taken it easy with the greens today, expecting the wind this afternoon. So I actually struggled to get the ball to the hole this morning. But then as they started to dry out, as we went on then, you could feel them, you could definitely feel the aprons getting a little bit firmer, the fairways, you know, the greens are getting a little crusty out there. And if the wind continues to whip the way it's, the way it is, it will be a tough afternoon for those guys.
Q. How did you hit it into the water on 11? Was it turning?
RORY MCILROY: Turned it, yeah. I was trying to -- I was forcing an 8-iron to try and get back there and turned it and pitched, obviously, over the hazard line. And I could have nearly played it. It was sort of, the ball was half in, half out, try to sort of do a Bill Haas spectacular whatever, but I decided against it.
Q. (No Microphone.)
RORY MCILROY: Definitely playing a bit better than I was playing in Mexico. Putting better. Driving it better. I think the course suits me a little bit better as well. So Mexico was frustrating because I started well and then just couldn't get the best out of myself for the final three days, where I'm a little more comfortable on this golf course, comfortable with this style of play, and a little more comfortable on greens.
Q. (No Microphone.)
RORY MCILROY: I hit 3-iron out of there. I was between 3-iron and 5-wood and if anything, I wanted to err on the short side rather than the long side because of where the pin was. So it was one of those ones where it wasn't, I never really expected it to get on the green. I thought maybe just like 5 or 10 short, chip it up close and make birdie, but it worked out perfectly and it was nice to convert that one.
Q. Going back to Mexico, are you still at a point in your career where you learn something from getting off to a first-round lead and not being able to close? If so, what did you learn two weeks ago?
RORY MCILROY: I mean, 54 holes is still a long way to go. I mean, even -- I mean, you sort of take it one day at a time. It's not as if I played badly in Mexico. I shot 69, 68, 68 the last three days. I just didn't get as much out of myself that I wanted to. But, yeah, I mean, it's always -- I mean, if you do shoot a good one, you know it's in there, you know you're playing well, so you just got to try to keep it going.
Q. (No Microphone.)
RORY MCILROY: Not for public discussion.
Q. Can you feel Arnold Palmer's presence on the grounds here?
RORY MCILROY: There's so many nice little traditions here. Obviously, behind us here on the range. Still having to take your hat off when you walk into the clubhouse, that's something that I really like. Eating breakfast this morning and saw a couple of people that were asked to take their hat off as they walked in. That's nice. I think that's a really nice thing. And to see Amy around and Sam and Roy and some of the family still. He meant an awful lot to the game, an awful lot to this community. And I didn't play it for the first sort of few years of my career, but once I did, I realized that it's a pretty special place and one that I want to try to come back to each and every year.
Q. How special was it for you to wear that red cardigan for the first time?
RORY MCILROY: It was special. It was warm. Alpaca isn't as comfortable as you think. But it was nice. I mean, for me at that point just to, just to win a tournament again, it was 520-whatever days, and so I think just the, I don't know, the joy in winning again was really, really special. You could have given me a neon cardigan and I would have worn it all the way home.
Q. Where do you keep it?
RORY MCILROY: I keep it in my wardrobe.
Q. The play on 18, did that at all set you up for the front nine?
RORY MCILROY: Yeah, that was, I think the two shots I hit into 16, the shot I hit into 17, and the two shots I hit into 18 gave me a lot of confidence going into the front side. I hit a drive and a 5-iron into 16. Hit it right into the heart of the green. Good shot. Hit a good 6-iron on 17 the way I wanted to. And then 3-wood, 9-iron on 18. Yeah, so it's shots that you got to stand up and make good swings.
Q. (No Microphone.)
RORY MCILROY: Yeah, of course. Again, like, 1-over through 6, there's still 66 holes left in this golf tournament. I mean, it's so fine that even now it doesn't mean anything. I've shot a good score and it's great that I've done it on the good end of the draw. I feel like I've gotten pretty fortunate that I've got that draw this week. So it's just nice to take advantage of it this morning and tomorrow's a new day and we'll see how that goes.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT