TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP BY COCA-COLA
September 14, 2014
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Tired, Rory?  
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I am.   I am tired.   I'm looking forward to a few days off and not seeing my golf clubs for a little while, and then when I'm ready and I'm excited to get back out again, get ready for the Ryder Cup.  
   
 Q.   Can you just talk about that stretch of bogeys there that really kind of took you out of it today?  
RORY McILROY:   Yeah.   I guess I just couldn't, you know, making bogeys on‑‑ I guess the double on 6, bogey on 9, 10 and 11, that was a really bad stretch of holes and I just couldn't‑‑ I just got really frustrated and just couldn't muster the energy to try and get something going again.   And even when I was hitting good shots, I was hitting bad putts.  
I'm sort of happy I made those three birdies coming in.   It jumped me up the leaderboard a little bit, and at least finished the day respectably.  
   
 Q.   Talk about 9 by the fence and what your options were.   What you were thinking?   
RORY McILROY:   I didn't really have many options, to be honest.   There was a little gap in the tree, which I did get the ball through, but you know, it wasn't the best lie in the rough, so I caught it a little off the top of the club face and didn't quite get the par that I needed to.   But even if I wasn't going for that gap, I was just trying‑‑ I knew if I hit it hard in those trees it would drop down and at least I could chip it out.   There was no other option really than just to take a chance.  
   
 Q.   Could you have taken a drop or anything like that?  
RORY McILROY:   No, I couldn't have taken a drop, no.  
   
 Q.   People underestimate how much competing and winning so much takes out of you.   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah.   It's been a long four weeks.   You know, if I had to do it all over again, I probably would have taken a week off somewhere in this stretch of tournaments.   But you know, it's tough because‑‑ you know, these sponsors that are sponsoring the tournaments and the FedExCup PLAYOFFS, they're putting up an awful lot of money to get the best players in the world there to their event.   
Not that you feel obliged, but you want to support the events and you want to show up and give the sponsors something to be happy about and proud of.   And you know, that's really‑‑ you know, I've got a great relationship with BMW, and that was probably the only reason why I did play in Denver.   
But at the same time, you know, if I had to do it again, I probably would have taken a week off just to feel a little fresher coming in here.  
   
 Q.   Mental side, not the physical side?  
RORY McILROY:   No, not physical.   I've been in the gym every day this week and that's fine, but mentally a little fatigued.  
   
 Q.   You played with Billy for two days and obviously he's had a heck of a run here.   What did you see from him?  
RORY McILROY:   He was very solid.   Today he didn't really put a foot wrong, apart from the tenth hole there, and he made a huge putt on 16.   A big up‑and‑down on 15, a huge putt on 16, and you know, played the last two holes really, really well.   
So when he needed to, he could produce the shots.   And you know, he was a very worthy winner.  
   
 Q.   How do you feel leaving here today compared to 2012?  
RORY McILROY:   You know, sort of similar, you know, even though in 2012, I shot 74 to sort of put myself out of it.   It looked like I was going to do the same today apart from those birdies coming in.  
Similar, you know.   I really wanted to win.   I really wanted to cap this year off well, even though it's still been a great year.   You know, I was coming in here with really high hopes and expectations, and I haven't quite been able to play the golf to live up to those.  
But it's still been a great season for me, and there's still a little bit of golf left, and looking forward, as I said, to this little bit of time off and get back at it maybe next weekend and get ready for the Ryder Cup.  
   
 Q.   Are you glad you're not going to see Billy Horschel?  
RORY McILROY:   There's a few guys I'm glad I'm not going to see at Glen Eagles:   him, Ryan Palmer, Chris Kirk.   There's a few guys that are playing well that aren't on this U.S. team that obviously had a great chance to make it.  
   
 Q.   There's no danger this fatigue thing would overshadow the Ryder Cup.   A lot of guys seem to feel the same as you?  
RORY McILROY:   I think a week off will do a lot of us a world of good.   It really will.   As I said, I don't want to see my golf clubs for a few days and I'll pick them back up again probably at the weekend before.   Having these five days off is going to be big, and I think a lot of guys will do the same thing, and I don't think‑‑ I don't think like tiredness or fatigue will play a part in the Ryder Cup.   
   
 Q.   Is it kind of the perfect thing, Rory, for you to have to look forward to, something of the stature of the Ryder Cup, having kind of just come to the end of the PGA TOUR season?  
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I think it is.   I kept saying the last few weeks I haven't really thought about it too much.   But now that all this is over, I'll start thinking about it a lot more over the next few days and obviously get very excited about it.   So it is, it's a great way to get right back on the horse and get back at it, and it's going to‑‑ yeah, I mean, it's always a phenomenal week, and I'm sure it'll be the same.  
   
 Q.   When do you go to Scotland?  
RORY McILROY:   I'll go‑‑ I'll probably head up there‑‑ I'm going to be in London on a Sunday morning, so I'll probably head up there on a Sunday evening and then I think most of the guys are getting in Monday.   I'll probably do a little bit of practice Monday and meet up with the rest of the team then.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT