TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP BY COCA-COLA
September 11, 2014
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   It was a grind out there, a very important stretch of closing holes?   
RORY MCILROY:   Yeah, it was.   I was really disappointed.   Not birdieing the 16th (indiscernible) and second shot, and then looked like I was going to make a (indiscernible) at 16, made a really good up‑and‑down there.   
Birdied 17, which was great and got up‑and‑down at the last.   
I could have let the round get away from me a little bit, but hung together well.   And 1‑under par is not out of it.  
   
 Q.   Firing on all cylinders, if that is the case, does it make it more satisfying to be here at the end of it?  
RORY MCILROY:   It does.   I haven't been firing on all cylinders for the past couple of weeks.   Trying to put 100percent effort in every round (indiscernible) front nine and left to right and trying to get in the back nine a little bit, and 17.   
So I feel like I know what I'm doing out there.   I know what's comfortable in my golf game, and I just need to try and feel that for the next three days.  
   
 Q.   Is that a sign of the kind of development you gained through the year; that you are able to grind out on the course when things aren't all there?  
RORY MCILROY:   Yeah, definitely.   I mean, in years gone by, shooting a 73 or 74.   You're just trying to get around my round as much as possible.   And it's really an important week.   It's not a week to give up.   It's a week to keep hanging in there and having a nice couple par putts and looking forward to the finish.   
Hopefully I can show a little bit more consistency over the next few days.  
   
 Q.   Make up with a big three rounds, it's not just another three rounds(indiscernible) involved?  
RORY MCILROY:   Yes, there is.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
RORY MCILROY:   Finish it off the way I feel I should finish it off.   It's been a great season, a great round.   Even though I haven't played my best in these FedExCup Playoffs (indiscernible) and it hasn't been too bad, but I definitely want to win here and win the overall thing.   It would be like icing on the cake for us.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT