THE BARCLAYS
August 23, 2014
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   In general, comments on your round?   You looked a little dejected coming off?
RORY McILROY:   I felt like I actually played well.   I played similar to yesterday.   I just didn't get a putt to drop.   My speed has not been quite right all week, and yeah, I've just struggled a little bit with the speed on the greens.   And when I've hit good putts, I've just got not given enough break on either the speed I've hit it or I've hit it right in the middle or just short.   I hit a couple putts like that today. 
Maybe just go tomorrow and be a little more aggressive on the greens.   Obviously I'm going to have to make some birdies to try and catch the guys in front of me.

Q.   Does fatigue play into this at all or the pressure of rolling into these next four weeks? 
RORY McILROY:   No, I don't think so.   I feel pretty fresh.   I feel like my game is still in good shape.   So fatigue, as long as I get enough rest and sleeping well at night, that's okay for me. 
I think it's just, I can't put it down to anything else.   I putted well yesterday but the first round, I didn't putt well at all and then today I felt like I actually putted okay.   Just nothing went in.   So hopefully if I can play similarly tomorrow and just get a few putts to drop, then maybe there's a low score out there.

Q.   Is there a goal for tomorrow? 
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, 4‑under; something low 60s.   Try and get to at least double‑digits under par and then go from there and see if I can get there as quickly as possible.   Then maybe make a bit of a charge.   I've come from a lot behind before and every time I'm in this position, I always think back to Quail Hollow in 2010. 
But there's a lot of guys between me and the leaders and depends on what the leaders do this afternoon.   Might just be too much to ask, but try to get to double‑digits under par and try to finish as high up the leaderboard as possible and move onto next week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT