DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
August 29, 2014
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  How do you feel about the way you played?  RORY McILROY: I feel like I played okay.  I got off to a great start.  A little disappointed that I couldn't keep it going after the first few holes.  But it was tricky out there.  The wind was up.  The greens are firmer than they ever have been since I've been coming here.  The course is in great shape, but the rough is a little thicker.  It makes it a little tougher to score. I felt good.  My game is in decent shape.  I holed a couple of nice putts.  I missed a couple again.  But overall, shooting under par today isn't a bad start.   Q.  17 and 18, was that just control about your approach shots?  RORY McILROY: Like the last two holes --   Q.  No -- 17 and 18.  RORY McILROY: I just pulled my wedge shot on 17.  Sort of had -- the ball was above my feet with a right-to-left wind.  I was trying to hold it against the wind and the slope and just let it go off. 18 was a tough shot in.  The second shot was into the wind.  I didn't want to do what Hunter did and sort of carve it out to the right, so I made sure if I was going to miss it anywhere, I was going to miss it left.   Q.  And the bunker shot on 17?  RORY McILROY: It was terrible.  I couldn't really do anything with it, it was right up against the back lip.  I was just trying to get it out somewhere.   Q.  You spent a couple of hours on the range yesterday.  Did you work on anything in particular?  RORY McILROY: I just went back to a few basics and fundamentals, worked on alignment a little bit, ball position.  If I get my alignment right then automatically the swing will start to get back.  Just working on alignment.   Q.  Is the course playing tougher?  RORY McILROY: It is.  It is playing tougher.  The greens are firmer.  The rough is thicker.  I don't really remember this course had as much wind.  It was pretty breezy even yesterday in the Pro Am and today.  The scoring conditions aren't quite as favorable as they have been in the past, and that's why you're seeing -- of course there's still some good scores out there.  But you're not seeing the sort of 8- or 9-unders that you usually see around this course.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT