THE BARCLAYS
August 24, 2014
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How much of a letdown is it, if at all, after winning three straight, to not be out there on 18 as champion?  
RORY McILROY:   You know, it was going to come to an end sooner or later, but the end of the day, great thing about golf is always there's next week.   Looking forward to going to Boston, a course where I've had success on before and I've played well there, and I feel like my game is in good shape.   So there's no reason why I can't go there next week and challenge for the title there.   
   
 Q.   Did you take anything out of this week in terms of your game?  
RORY McILROY:   Tee‑to‑green again is very solid.   I can't really fault that.   As I said, the only thing that let me down was my putting.   I just didn't convert the birdie opportunities I was giving myself, and I had plenty of them over the weekend.   So a little bit of work on the putting the next few days, and hopefully it will be a different story in Boston next week.   
   
 Q.   Sounds like you're playing next week, but is Denver possibly you're going to miss?   
RORY McILROY:   No, you know, I was thinking about it, but you know what, I feel fine.   I feel fresh.   I have no problem playing a lot of golf.   I'll see where I stand next week but I'm 90 per cent going to be in Denver for sure.   
   
 Q.   Do you sort of regret that they didn't leave the break in?   
RORY McILROY:   It's okay.   I don't mind.   It's no big deal.   One of the main‑‑ not one of the main reasons, but one of the reasons why I want to go to Denver, as well, is the Broncos play the Colts on Sunday night.   So I want to go to that, as well, first game of the season.  
I've heard a lot of great things about Cherry Hills.   The ball obviously goes a mile there so I'm looking forward to that, like hitting 7‑irons 220.   But no, I'm all set for there.   I definitely don't think I'll skip any of them.   
   
 Q.   You can't qualify for THE TOUR Championship when the The Ryder Cup in Wales‑‑  
RORY McILROY:   I've only played THE TOUR Championship once.   
   
 Q.   If someone asked you how you would have structured this leading up into The Ryder Cup, would you have liked to have seen four in a row or would you like to have seen a break somewhere?   
RORY McILROY:   I'm glad that they left the break in between THE TOUR Championship and The Ryder Cup instead of a break between two Playoff events.   Especially for the guys playing The Ryder Cup, you know, that's a very demanding week, not just because you're playing 36 holes a day, but all the other commitments that you have.   It takes a lot out of you.   
I'd much rather they left that gap between THE TOUR Championship and The Ryder Cup, rather than putting the gap somewhere in the middle of these.   
   
 Q.   Team shaping up, Jamie Donaldson with his win today‑‑  
RORY McILROY:   It was great to see.   He's a great guy and I've played with him quite a lot actually over the last few months.   Good to see him on the team and not sure how Stevie Gallacher did, as well, but he must be up there for consideration.   Yeah, it's looking good.   
   
 Q.   What advice can you give himplaying The Ryder Cup for the first time?     
RORY McILROY:   He's a great lad and he gets on well with everyone, which I think is very important.   All the guys on the team are going to like him and you can basically put him with playing with anyone.   
He's a very solid player tee‑to‑green.   He doesn't make many mistakes, which is sort of what you need in a match‑play format, Ryder Cup.   If you can sort of grind your opponents down, hit fairways, hit greens, just keep giving yourself chances, then I think he's a great addition to the European Team.   
   
 Q.   Looks like the picks are setting up to be guys with a lot of experience; Westwood, Donald, G‑Mac‑‑ well G‑Mac's on right now, Poulter‑‑  
RORY McILROY:   It would be better if we didn't have to use those picks for those guys just to maybe‑‑ do you go with form or do you with experience; that's the headache that Paul is going to have over the next couple of weeks.   
So you know, it's not up to me.   It's up to him.   You know, you want guys obviously playing well but at the same time you want guys that have maybe had some experience in that arena.   So you need to find the balance there.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT