PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 7, 2014
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   After 10 and 11, how hot were you?
RORY McILROY:   Very, very, hot.   Things like what happened on 10, they happen.   You hit bad shots.   It sort of knocked me off track a little bit, because it's one of the only bad shots I've hit in a few weeks.   So I just double crossed it. 
What I was really angry about was, okay, you make a 7, that's fine, but you don't compound that error and make a bogey on the next hole with a 3‑putt. 
Walking on to 12th tee, I was muttering a few things to myself.   It was great just to hit that second shot the way I did.   Hit it in close.   It's one of the toughest par‑4s on the course.   It hit the second shot in there close and make birdie on that hole made me feel better and sort of gave me a little kick start to start that little birdie stretch.

Q.   How tough is that turn mentally? 
RORY McILROY:   I think you have to take whatever you are feeling inside and try and turn it into a positive.   You are‑‑ as you said, I was hot.   It's trying to use that fire as a fuel to sort of propel yourself forward.   It was great.   I think it just shows where my game is mentally right now, as well, that I was able to do that today.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
RORY McILROY:   Of course.   I think one of the big things for me, especially in major championships is getting off to good starts and being right up there at the start.   I have been able to do that today, and if I can continue to be up there the rest of the tournament. 
You see guys out there this morning shoot 5‑ and 6‑under par.   You know that there are scores out there.   There's opportunities.   You got the par‑5s.   You got a few shorter par‑4s.   It's still receptive.   There's definitely birdies out there to be had.

Q.   What have you learned about the difference pressing in a moment like that and being able to turn it around? 
RORY McILROY:   It's golf.   Whenever you are confident and you have some momentum on your side, it's easier to do what I did today rather than if everything is sort of going against you and you are struggling for forum and you have a patch like that.   It's not so easy to get on a birdie run again. 
Just where I am with my golf game right now, I'm hitting the ball great, seeing good shots out there, holing putts.   It's easier to get back in the right frame of mind after what happened on 10 and 11.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I mean, this course is soft anyway.   It's very receptive already.   No matter what happens, I feel like it's a great setup for me regardless if there is weather coming in or not.   I think it's always important to get off to good starts in major championships. 
You look at the three wins that I've had and I've started really well in each of them.   It's important and it's great to get off to another one today.

Q.   (Inaudible)? 
RORY McILROY:   The last three putts I hit today, I thought all three were going in.   I need to keep hitting putts like that.   If I keep doing that, a bunch of them will fall like they did today.   It would have been nice to tie the lead after today with that putt.   I'll take a 5‑under after the middle part of the round. 

Q.   Is it crazy to think what that back nine could have been for you?
RORY McILROY:   It could have been very special.   As I said, I will take what I was given today, enjoy dinner tonight and get back at it the morning.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
RORY McILROY:   Definitely.   No doubt. 

Q.   (Inaudible)?
RORY McILROY:   I don't know.   You get confidence with it.   Technically my swing is in a very good place.   I mean, I think the big thing for me, I'm able to shift the ball both ways.   Tee shots like 16 for me, on this golf course would have been difficult for me before because I would have had to maybe flirt with the treeline on the right and bring it back.   Now I can aim up the left side and hit this little cut.   I'm very comfortable doing that, which has brought in another element to my game which can only help. 

Q.   As a general question, how does the way (inaudible)?
RORY McILROY:   It doesn't affect me.   I try not to pay much attention to what the other guys are doing.   You know if they are playing well, if they are holing putts, making some birdies. 
Try not to let them affect my play or affect my decision making in any way.   If I stick to my game plan and I see them hitting a different club off a certain tee, that's not going to affect me in any way.   Try not to pay too much attention.   Try to control what I can which is my own game.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
RORY McILROY:   I mean, it's going to happen.   People are going to get asked about me.   They are going to give their opinion.   If that's Jack's opinion, that's‑‑ he has high opinion of me.   Look, I've always said I'm on 3, I want to get to 4.   Hopefully I can get to 4 this week and then keep going from there.

Q.   Pretty hard for somebody to write a negative opinion about you right now?
RORY McILROY:   Most of the people that are writing don't really know me. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT