PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 10, 2014
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  RORY McILROY:   On 10, it came out a little low and left on me.   Got a nice bit of run on to the green and that was the turning point in the whole tournament for me.   I struggled on the front nine, and then to get myself within one of the guys in front, Rickie and Phil, I felt like I had a really good chance then.   I played the final stretch this week really well and I knew there was a few birdies out there for me.  
   
 Q.   When you got around the 12th, 13th, 14th, were you paying close attention to what they were doing right in front of you?  
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, honestly I thought they had both made‑‑ I thought Phil made a big putt on 12 which I thought was for birdie and that was actually for par.   I was paying attention.   I was paying attention to what was going on.   I didn't want them getting too far ahead of me.   I was trying to keep my foot to the pedal as well.   Great to make the birdie on 13 and then obviously the putt on 17, too.   
It was a classy move for those guys to let us come up because they didn't need to.   They could have let us just stand there and wait in darkness and make it a little bit more difficult.   True sportsmanship.   They called us up and it was a classy move.   
   
 Q.   How is your summer going?   
RORY McILROY:   Summer's going all right, thanks.   
   
 Q.   1‑over as you made the turn, but the eagle on 10 seemed to ignite your run on the back nine.   How big was that eagle and how would you say you played on the closing stretch?  
RORY McILROY:   The eagle on 10 was massive.   I think the birdie on 7 really settled me down.   I started the round very tentatively.   I just didn't really have it.   Sort of just trying to get through the first few holes making pars while everyone else was attacking, so that wasn't good.   
But the eagle on 10 just changed everything.   That got me‑‑ Rickie held that putt there on 10 to go three ahead, while I was standing on the fairway.   So eagle to get back to one behind with eight holes to play was massive.  
   
 Q.   You came to the 18th tee while Rickie and Phil were on the tee, as well.   Can you walk us through everything that transpired from the tee to get to the green?   
RORY McILROY:   It was actually‑‑ I suggested we just play off it before, but Bernd Wiesberger said why don't we hit our drives and they go hit up their second shots.   So it just makes it, at least we don't finish together but saves a little bit of time.   It was a classy move for those guys to do that.   They could have had us standing and wait on the 18th tee while it was getting dark.   It was great sportsmanship and shows the great character of those two guys and I'm glad they did it.   
   
 Q.   Joining Jack Nicklaus and Tiger Woods, winning four Majors at 25, what does it mean to be in such great company?  
RORY McILROY:   I try and put all this talk aside every time it comes up, but Tiger and Jack are two of the most successful players in our sport of all time.   I'm on a nice track at the minute and I'm on a nice path.   I've still got a long way to go, but to be in their company at this age is very special.   
   
 Q.   You said yesterday, regardless of the outcome today, you're going to remember this as one special summer.   Now with this victory, how would you describe this summer?   
RORY McILROY:   Amazing.   Incredible.   I'm not sure I'll ever have another summer like this, so I've got a week off now and I'm going to enjoy it.   I've got a lot of golf left to play this year, but I have to enjoy what I've just done.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT