WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 2, 2014
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  RORY McILROY:   Yeah, my goal today was to try and get in the final group.   Sergio didn't quite have that luxury of seeing what I was doing on the last. 
It will be nice to play alongside him tomorrow and at least keep an eye on what's going on.   So try to apply a bit of pressure when I can, but just really looking forward to getting in there and having another chance to win a tournament so soon after what happened at Hoylake a few weeks ago.

Q.   Pretty stress free 66.   You seem to be driving the ball incredibly well. 
RORY McILROY:   I've never driven the ball better.   I'm excited.   I really am.   I feel really comfortable with that part of my game, and that part of my game is the foundation of my game. 
If I can drive the ball well, everything else seems to sort of float on from there, and you can see I'm pretty confident throughout my game. 
Hopefully, I can just keep driving it like that for 18 holes.

Q.   Did you figure out anything with that lately before The Open that's gotten you to this point? 
RORY McILROY:   No.   I feel like I've driven the ball really well all year.   Really, look at my stats and you look at some of the drives that I've hit.   It's‑‑ yeah, I feel like, since I got this driver that I've been using since early October last year, it's just really come together and really clicked.   That's been a big part of the reason why I'm driving so well.

Q.   Did Jack give you a swing tip when you guys sat down after the Memorial?   Did he say anything about something he'd seen in your swing? 
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, but it's sort of nothing that I hadn't heard before, in a way.

Q.   Kind of cool, though, that he's saying that. 
RORY McILROY:   It's so funny.   He got up out of his seat and started giving me this lesson, and his hip creaked.   It's like the funniest thing.   It was too funny.

Q.   Did you keep from laughing? 
RORY McILROY:   I didn't‑‑ yeah, I mean, it was funny.   It was a good moment. 
Yeah, it's nice that he takes an interest in my game.   It really is cool, and it's nice to be able to talk to him about those sort of things. 
But what he was saying to me is something that I have been working on quite a lot this year anyway.

Q.   Rory, how nice would it be to go to Valhalla [Inaudible]? 
RORY McILROY:   It would be huge.   It would be really good.   It would be nice to go to Valhalla looking for three in a row.   It would be a pretty good three in a row to try and achieve. 
Yeah, I mean, I'm not getting ahead of myself here.   Sergio is still three ahead of me going into tomorrow, and I'll need to play some really, really good golf to try and catch him because he is playing very well. 
But as I said at the start there, it's a great opportunity for me to try and win my first WGC, good opportunity to try and get back to that world No.1 position and just to be in contention so soon after winning arguably the biggest tournament of my career. 
That's very satisfying to me knowing I'm not really dwelling on it.   I just keep moving forward.

Q.   Rory, thoughts on Sergio right now and how well he's playing? 
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I sort of witnessed from afar yesterday on that back nine and how well he is playing.   And I think a big thing with Sergio is you all know that emotionally he's in a really good place.   I think that's really helping him on the golf course. 
He's in a good place in his life right now, and I'm really happy to see that.   That's really coming out in the way he's playing and his whole demeanor. 
It's good to see.   I think he's‑‑ Sergio playing well is a great thing for golf, and hopefully he can continue to do that.

Q.   Aren't you in a pretty good place as well? 
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I mean, I'm not complaining. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT