WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 1, 2014
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Rory, I saw you sneak a peek at the leaderboard as you went by 18 there and see that 61 with seven straight birdies for Sergio.   You really had a nice view of all that. 
RORY McILROY:   I did, yeah.   He obviously played in front of us, and he seemed like he was playing well.   Every time I looked back, he was putting a ball in the hole, and the crowd was cheering. 
I knew that he was making a few birdies, and I knew I had to make a few birdies just to try and stay in touch.   It was nice just to make a few coming in.   I'm still four back going into the weekend, but I feel like that could have been a lot more.   So it's a good finish.

Q.   If it wasn't for the Spaniard, your 64 would be the story of the day.   We've talked this to death, and perhaps we put it to rest at The Open Championship.   You struggle in the second round, and you shoot 64 here in the second round at Bridgestone. 
RORY McILROY:   I shot 66 at The Open Championship, 64 here.   Again, it's not like I could put it down to anything that was happening on Fridays.   It just seemed like I hit a bad stretch of holes.   I don't think it was any sort of coincidence. 
But it's nice to put it to bed and shoot a couple of good second round scores.   I'm in a great position going into the weekend, which I'm really happy about.

Q.   I would imagine you would think 6 under today you would not still be four back heading into the weekend. 
RORY McILROY:   I didn't think so.   I saw a few guys this morning post good numbers, and I thought the conditions were good this afternoon.   I knew there were birdies out there, but what Sergio did on that back nine today was pretty special and pretty hard to keep up with that.

Q.   It seems like you found something on the greens.   You used five less putts today than you did yesterday.   Did you feel the putter was working a little better for you? 
RORY McILROY:   It was working a little better.   I felt like I gave myself the same amount of opportunities.   I just made a few more, which is going to happen. 
If you keep giving yourself 12‑ or 15‑footers all the time, you're not going to hole all of them, but it was nice to get a few to drop today.

Q.   We saw you and Sergio bantering before your interview.   You have a great relationship obviously.   He was trying to chase you down all week at The Open Championship.   Is it fun to see someone you're friendly with go low?   Is it more of a fun motivation for you? 
RORY McILROY:   It is.   I was just trying to hang with him on the back nine.   He was going really low, and I was just trying to stay there. 
As you said, I do have a good relationship with Sergio, and it's just great to see him play like this again.   I grew up idolizing the guy.   He's obviously really happy with everything that's going on.   He seems in a really good place, and it's good to see him play like this.

Q.   You're not in a bad place either.   Good luck the rest of the week. 
RORY McILROY:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT