ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 12, 2014
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about your round and conditions out there today. 
RORY McILROY:   The conditions are certainly easier than they were yesterday.   The breeze isn't up as much and they have actually moved a few of the tee boxes up on the back nine as well, which makes it a bit easier.   But yeah, the front nine is the nine that you've got to sort of try to make your score on still and hang on a little bit on the back but not quite as much as yesterday. 
You know, looks like it's going to be scorable conditions out there this afternoon.

Q.   You were brilliant on day one,64, and yesterday nothing went right.   What about today? 
RORY McILROY:   It was good.   I didn't get off to a great start again.   I was 1‑over through two holes when you're looking to really be 1‑under, with the second a reachable par 5.   But after that I played very solidly, four birdies and no bogeys.   Didn't really put myself in too much trouble.   So yeah, much better today.

Q.   What about tomorrow's round, how important is it for you both in this tournament, also, to take some confidence into the Open to play well tomorrow? 
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, it's important but I think I've shot 64 and a 68 on this golf course, which is two really good scores.   Yesterday was just one of those days where nothing really went right.   I couldn't get any momentum.   It would be nice to shoot another good one tomorrow and head to Hoylake with a bit of confidence.
I feel good with my game and I say enough positives in there to give me confidence going into the Open. 

Q.   Was that a steadying the ship kind of day after what happened yesterday? 
RORY McILROY:   A little bit I guess.   I didn't get off to the best of starts again today.   I was 1‑over through two holes.   After that I played really solid golf.   Didn't put myself in much trouble.   I made four birdies on the way in and no bogeys, so yeah, you could say that it was much steadier than yesterday.

Q.   Obviously with 24 hours to reflect, obviously you've been busy for the last four or five of them, but have you had a chance to reflect on the up‑and‑downs of Thursdays and Fridays? 
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, a little bit.   I think I was just saying‑‑ I was talking to Clarkey this morning on the range that I've got it in my head now, almost trying a bit too hard on Fridays to back   up a good one on Thursday. 
So maybe just go out with a bit more of a relaxed mind‑set on Fridays and maybe not as many expectations.   Because you're going out on a Thursday and you don't‑‑ after a couple of weeks off, your expectations aren't very high.   You want to go out there and play well, but after shooting a 64 on the first day, you're going out on Friday and your expectations are considerably higher. 
So maybe just relax a little bit more on Fridays and try and enjoy it.

Q.   In terms of tomorrow, your last competitive round before The Open championship, what do you want to get out of it?
RORY McILROY:   I think depending on conditions, the weather doesn't look very good tomorrow‑‑ which I don't mind.   I wouldn't mind playing a round of golf in bad conditions going into the Open but just another round of solid play, hitting the shots that I know that I'll need next week.   I struggled a bit with those today.   I hit a couple of bad shots into the wind which I might go work on this afternoon. 
But apart from that, you know, just try and play another solid round of golf and not get myself into much trouble, and as I've been saying all week, sort of control my ball flight and keep it nice and low, which I'll need for the next sort of week or so.

Q.   With a 68 to add to a 64 this week, you know the scores are there, the game is where you would want it to be by and large. 
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, it is.   It's just getting rid of these bad stretches of holes or these bad second rounds or whatever it is.   If I can get rid of that, then there's no reason why I can't go next week and really contend. 

Q.   It's all about building momentum at the moment, isn't it, and a really good, solid final round, that would really get things going for Hoylake. 
RORY McILROY:   It would, yeah.   More importantly, depending on how far back I am going into tomorrow, I want to try and shoot a good number to give myself at least some sort of chance. 
But yeah, a solid round of golf yesterday would have been nice and a solid round of golf tomorrow would be very nice and it would set me up well for The Open next week.

Q.   Three days on the course, what do you make of the course on the whole? 
RORY McILROY:   You know, we've had it in sort of three different conditions.   It's sort of played like three different golf courses.   Thursday was compete opposite wind direction.   Yesterday was the same wind direction today but much stronger, and today was actually quite nice out there.   You could score and you could‑‑ you weren't really struggling for pars too much. 
You know, it was definitely my favorite conditions to play the course in but it's a great golf course and it's a good test, even when the wind isn't blowing that much.   It's a good test of golf.

Q.   Would you like to be back here one day? 
RORY McILROY:   For sure, definitely. 

Q.   Do you remain convinced after three days that playing links golf prior to the Open is the right decision? 
RORY McILROY:   Oh, of course, yeah.   Of course it is, no doubt.   No doubt. 

Q.   Phil was right? 
RORY McILROY:   I feel much more prepared going into next week.   Because even hitting the shots‑‑ I was coming in here hitting these shots that I needed into the wind on the range and hitting them perfectly and then even today I hit a couple that weren't so good.   So hitting them in practise and hitting them under the gun are two completely different things, and being able to do that over the past three days and tomorrow, as well, you know, can only help going into next week. 

Q.   You were spotted at Trump's; did you have a chance to play it? 
RORY McILROY:   I haven't.   I've used the practise facilities there.   It's nice and quiet.   But no, a few of the other guys have played it and said it's a great course but I haven't had a chance to go yet. 

Q.   Do you hoping to?
RORY McILROY:   I don't want to burn myself out before next week, so one more round up here tomorrow.   But I wouldn't mind getting out in a buggy and just seeing the place because it looks really good.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT