WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
July 31, 2014
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Are you pleased to get back to work?   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I'm pleased to get back.   It's always been a week that I've enjoyed.   It's a great golf course.   A great venue.   It's nice to get back to work.   It doesn't feel any different.   
I feel like most of the round I played really well, really solid.   Just an unfortunate double bogey on 8, but apart from that, I was pretty happy with everything else.  
   
 Q.   What's the challenge for you personally coming off the high and having to get back at it?   
RORY McILROY:   I don't think there is a challenge because there's still so much to play for, as I was saying at the start of the week.   No.1 spot is up for grabs.   Trying to get myself as far up the FedExCup points as possible going into the playoffs.   
I haven't won a World Golf Championship before.   Got another Major coming up next week.   There's still a lot of golf left to play.   
It hasn't been that hard for me to sort of refocus and get back to work.  
   
 Q.   [ No microphone ]?  
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I've always enjoyed playing with Kuchar.   He's a good guy.   We have a good laugh.   It's a nice comfortable group for both of us, I think.  
   
 Q.   Did you hear the mobile phone going off on the 17th tee?   
RORY McILROY:   I did.   But we play so much in like Korea and China, it doesn't‑‑ it just‑‑ you get used to it.   
I'd rather not have anyone say anything because then you have to go through your whole routine again and stuff.   I'd rather just let it go, and that's fine.  
   
 Q.   What happened on that‑‑ on the bunker shot on 8?   Looked like you went to chip.   
RORY McILROY:   The bunker shot just came out‑‑ I think it's because of all the rain, the sand is quite compact.   So the wedge just went through the sand pretty quickly, and it came out sort of hot.   
With the chip shot, it went up against the collar, and I was trying to get a little stab just to try to get it on and hit it a little thin.   
So, yeah, it wasn't a great‑‑ but I probably didn't deserve anything better than a bogey after the tee shot, but it would have been nice to limit it to 5 instead of 6.  
   
 Q.   Did you fear losing momentum at all after The Open?   Is that one of the reasons why you try to get back to work right away?   
RORY McILROY:   No.   I was just really happy that it gave me momentum.   That was sort of my whole thing.   This is a huge springboard to go on for the rest of the year and push on and achieve some more goals that I want to achieve.   I never‑‑ I was never afraid that I would go into some sort of lull.   I felt like my game was really in a good place, and I just wanted to keep going.  
   
 Q.   You take emphasis from the fact that it's a great year now regardless?   
RORY McILROY:   It's a great year regardless, but if that's all I did, sitting back and reflecting on my year in December, if I say, okay, I won the PGA, I won Wentworth, and I won The Open, it's a great year, but there's still four or five months in the season left, and I want to do more than that.  
   
 Q.   [Inaudible]?   
RORY McILROY:   I think the 9th hole.   Especially coming off that double bogey to play it.   It's one of the toughest holes on the course, and to make 3 there after a 6 was good.   
   
 Q.   You put an extra wedge in there.   What did you take out of the bag?   
RORY McILROY:   2 iron and 3.   Basically, my normal setup I've been using throughout the year.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT