ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 13, 2014
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Good round for you today, how important was that?  
RORY McILROY:   It was good I guess.   I think 67 is actually pretty average out there today.   The course is playing very, very easy.   I mean, 67, and I've actually moved down one spot on the leaderboard.   So it's not like‑‑ par out there was probably around 68, 67.   
I played okay.   Looking forward to getting to Hoylake and getting ready there.   See enough good signs in my game to give me some confidence going into next week.  
   
 Q.   You showed great mental strength to bounce back from your second round and had a couple of good rounds after that.   Do you feel you're in fine form going into next week?  
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I am.   Three good rounds here, if I can just string a fourth round in there, it would be great, and obviously going into next week, that's what I'm going to try and do, try and just play four solid rounds of golf and see where that leaves me.   But feel like I'm playing well enough to contend.   
   
 Q.   What do you need to do differently at Hoylake than here?   
RORY McILROY:   Play the par 5s better for sure.   There's four par 5s at Hoylake and they are very reachable, very scorable and that's where you make your score there.   Only played the par 5s this week in 2‑under par which isn't good enough.   So need to try and take care of those a bit better next week to have a chance.  
   
 Q.   You've played Hoylake a few times before.   Is that a course you feel suits you?   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, it's very fair.   It's very‑‑ as long as you avoid the bunkers off the tee, the greens are quite flat.   They are quite sort of forgiving.   There's not many big run‑offs or huge slopes on the greens.   So, yeah, I feel with the way I'm hitting the ball, I feel most courses are sort of suiting me at the minute.  
Looking forward to getting down there and playing a couple more rounds and hopefully be ready for next Thursday.  
   
 Q.   As preparation goes‑‑  
RORY McILROY:   It's been fantastic.   To play some links golf on a real, true links test has been fantastic.   I'm definitely glad that I came and even though it's not the result that I wanted, it's been a great exercise in terms of preparation for next week.   
   
 Q.   Next year, it's moving to Gullane, would you still be of a mind to use this as preparation for The Open?  
RORY McILROY:   I have no idea what Gullane is like.   If it's like here and it's a great links course, then yeah, for sure, definitely.   
   
 Q.   Would you like to see it being here in Aberdeen?  
RORY McILROY:   I would, yeah.   I think it's done really well.   The course has not really showed its teeth today because of the benign conditions, but provided a tough test over the first couple of days, and I think it's been a really good venue.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT