ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 11, 2014
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What is the verdict, please, Rory, on a tough second day?  
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I just‑‑ didn't get off to the best start, obviously.   The Front 9 was where you needed to make your score.   The two par‑5s downwind.   And you know, I didn't play particularly‑‑ I played okay.   I hit some good shots, but just wasn't getting the ball close enough.   
Turned in 2‑over par, which wasn't disastrous.   It wasn't very good, but it wasn't the end of the world.   And then the bogey on 10 was sort of from nowhere.  
And then the double on 12, and then to follow that up with the bogeys on 13 and 14 just sort of combined with what I'd done.  
But yeah, just one of those days that nothing really went right, and you know, I'm here for the weekend at least.   I'm only two shots off the Top 10 somehow.   But go out tomorrow and go out early enough and try and shoot something similar to what I did the first day.  
But this is the first‑‑ it was the first day I'd play the course in this wind direction.   It was much tougher than it was yesterday, so even playing the Front 9 into the wind you're going through the dunes, so you're sort of sheltered a little bit and you don't really get as much of it.   But the back 9 is sort of up on a plateau and you're more exposed, so that wind that we faced on the Back 9 sort of into, off the left was very difficult.  
   
 Q.   You're good at regrouping and going again, aren't you?   As you say, you're not that far off really.   
RORY McILROY:   No.   I mean I'd be much happier standing here after shooting a couple of 71s, but that's not the case.   It hasn't been the case all year.   I've got off to great starts and just fell away.   But I'm still in the tournament and I can go out there in the morning and try and get a few of those shots back that I lost today.  
   
 Q.   Phil was saying he's concerned that it might be quite mentally draining over the weekend here going into next week, the wind is battling more than you might want it.   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I think everyone is different, but I don't think that's going to really take a toll on me personally.   
You know, it is.   It's a grind out there, but at the end of the day, you know, it's a great way to prepare for next week, if nothing else.   I don't want to just prepare for next week.   I want to try to get myself back into this golf tournament and try and win.   I feel there's all sorts of signs in there that my game is there, but I just need to tidy up a few bits and pieces.  
   
 Q.   I suspect there isn't one reason, but this Friday thing, is it annoying you?  
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I guess.   Going out today as well, having to talk about it, it's always sort of being brought up and it's always in your mind and maybe putting myself under more pressure to get off to a decent start and shoot a good score.  
Yeah, that's another Friday out of the way, thank God.   (Laughs).   I can go out on the weekend.   Yeah, I mean just try and get some of these shots back.   
I shot 68 the Friday at the U.S. Open and hopefully next Friday is a little different than it was today as well.  
   
 Q.   Kind of flukish, isn't it?   I mean it's bizarre.   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah.   I mean I guess now that I'm sort of thinking about it may be that's why‑‑ because it's Friday I need to try and hold it together here somewhat.   But it is what it is.   You know, I'm still in the golf tournament and I can go out tomorrow and try and make some birdies early and get back in it.  
   
 Q.   You're not the only guy that struggled today.   Most guys walking in looking a little shell shocked.   Is that how you feel?  
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, a little bit.   I just thought everything today was much tougher, even‑‑ I didn't‑‑ you know, when I woke up this morning and went to the gym early on, you know, the wind didn't seem like it was up as much as it is now, so I wasn't expecting this tough of test going out there this afternoon, but the wind direction yesterday was definitely the easier wind direction to play on this golf course.   
But I'm glad.   I'm glad that I've seen this wind direction today because I think that's what we're going to get again tomorrow.   So at least I've played a round in it and I know what for expect.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT