THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE INSURANCE
May 30, 2014
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How is the knee?
RORY MCILROY:   The knee's okay.   It was a little sore this morning on the range because if I just keep hitting balls continuously and just keep torquing it, then it's going to get sore. 
But out on the course it was fine.   Painkillers kicked in.   And it didn't‑‑ like I felt it a little bit, but didn't really bother me too much.

Q.   What was the difference between yesterday and today?
RORY MCILROY:   I missed fairways.   That was a big thing.   I didn't realize how thick the rough was until I got in it today. 
It's thick.   I hit a decent drive on 10.   First of all, today I just was in the rough, couldn't get to the green, made bogey there.   And then I just kept missing fairways and making it tough for myself.   And obviously that little three‑hole stretch‑‑ 13, 14, 15‑‑ didn't help.   Take those three holes out of it, then it wouldn't actually have been that bad a day. 
But as I was saying yesterday, these little runs I'm getting on where it gets away from me, I was able to avoid that last week.   Not so much this week. 
But it's not disastrous.   Even though I had such a bad day, I'm still in with a chance depending on what the guys do this afternoon.
So going into the weekend, not exactly where I want to be.   But could be worse.

Q.   Did the confidence that you had coming here in today's round in your opinion (indiscernible)?
RORY MCILROY:   No, I don't think so.   I am hitting a lot of shots.   Played the front nine solidly. 
Just need to get back out there tomorrow and get off to a good start.   That's exactly what I didn't do today.   I didn't get off to a good start.   Sort of made things tough for myself. 
But seemed like anything that could sort of go wrong did go wrong out there with having double hit on 15 and hitting a couple of branches on 13, which were actually a couple of decent shots.   Even the tee shot on 18 there, I felt like I had a good tee shot.   Might have been a little too much club, but end up with a shot where I don't have a shot to get to the green. 
So hopefully that's the bad run out of the way and I can play some good golf on the weekend and get myself back in with the shots.

Q.   Is there anything particular with the swing that was leading to the driving inaccuracy?
RORY MCILROY:   Not really.   I left a couple to the right.   No, I think I didn't‑‑ I hit some good drives on the front nine.   So I don't think it's anything to be worried about. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT