THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 10, 2014
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  RORY McILROY:   If I had just kept it around even par for the front nine, I'd be up near the leaders, but yeah, it's been‑‑ I'm really happy with how I've been able to come back the last couple of days, but it's also a little frustrating that I've had to come back because I feel like I'm playing good enough to not have these little stretches of bad holes.   Maybe tomorrow I can put it all together and start strongly and finish strongly like I have the last few days.

Q.   You've alluded to this, but you're 9‑over on the front, 12‑under on the back.   You said you had a good talk to yourself from 9 green to 10 tee on Friday.   Was it the same situation here in the third round? 
RORY McILROY:   Not really because I felt like I wasn't playing as badly as the score was suggesting today.   I'd hit five greens in seven holes, and I was 4‑over par.   I hadn't really done much wrong.   It was nice to see a putt go in.   I had three really big lip‑outs on the front nine, but it was nice to see a putt go in on 7, holed one from off the green, which was a bonus.   I was in a decent frame of mind going into the back nine.

Q.   Do you change anything up in your warm‑up or strategy for the front nine for the final round? 
RORY McILROY:   I don't think so.   No, I mean, not really.   Just maybe put a premium on hitting it in the middles of greens and not taking too many chances because I took a couple of chances today on a couple of the shorter holes, and it didn't really pay off.   Yeah, maybe just play a little more conservative on the front nine tomorrow.

Q.   What can you tell us about the golf course?   Has it changed much?   A lot of wind early today. 
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, a lot of wind.   The greens are still pretty receptive but the greens are quicker.   They're much faster.   I'd say they're at least two or three feet quicker today than they were yesterday.   I stepped up on the first green today and hit my first putt eight feet by.   Needed to adjust quickly to that, so that's going to make it a little different, a little trickier for the guys today, especially with how hard the wind is blowing already. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT