THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 9, 2014
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  RORY McILROY:   It's funny, I feel very comfortable on the back nine here.   I played one ball on Wednesday, shot 5‑under, shot 3‑under on the back nine yesterday, and shot 4‑under on it today.   If I could only just figure out the front nine, I would be okay.   But yeah, I mean, I just got off to an awful start again.   Seems like Friday afternoons aren't really when I want to play. 
I battled back well.   My attitude probably cost me a couple of shots on the front nine, but on the back nine I was able to regroup and stay patient and knew that there was some birdies out there, and it was nice to birdie the last just to make it into the weekend. 

Q.   It's a little bit like Quail Hollow last week, too?
RORY McILROY:   Same exact thing.   Masters was the same, needed to hole a six‑footer there to make the cut on the number.   Houston was sort of the same; I shot 65 to post a top 10.   It's not where I want to be, but it seems I'm on this run where at least I'm making cuts.   At least I'm on the right side of it this year instead of the wrong side.   Gave myself an opportunity over the weekend to post a couple of good scores and post a top 10 finish again and maybe try and post something better than that. 

Q.   When you missed that putt on 9 for birdie, your body language wouldn't give any indication that you were able to kind of grind it out on the back and ready to go and get that done.   When you make that walk over there‑‑
RORY McILROY:   It was a good long walk and a walk where I could sort of gather my thoughts, and thought to myself, you know, at that point I think the cut was 1‑under par, but I knew with the way the conditions were that even par was probably going to make it, so I thought, I can shoot 4‑under on this nine, and I said to J.P., if I can get two birdies before playing the 16th, I'll be in a decent position, and I was able to do that.   Birdied 16, which I should, and then the last was nice to see that putt fall.

Q.   Do you have any explanation where you have these grisly sequences of holes?
RORY McILROY:   Not really.   I just feel like I see one bad shot and then it turns into another and then another.   It's not like a loss of confidence, but I just‑‑ I don't know, I just get into these little runs where I can't seem to hit a solid shot.   If I miss it, I miss it in the wrong spot.   I had a couple of really hard lip‑outs, as well, on the 6th and the 7th hole.   I don't know, it seems like it's just a bad stretch.   I mean, I think I was 6‑over par for a stretch of five holes today.   But at least there's good golf in there somewhere, and hopefully I can continue that into the weekend, what I showed on the back nine there today. 

Q.   Do you take anything out of grinding it out and to make it like that?
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I'm really happy about that, really proud of myself, happy with myself that I was able to do it.   Yeah, I could have‑‑ I definitely could have thrown in‑‑ walking off the 8th tee, I bent my 3‑iron over my shoulders.   It's like a boomerang.   Walking off the 8th tee to walking up the 18th green‑‑ onto the 18th green, giving myself a putt to make the cut was a good effort because I wasn't in the right frame of mind in the middle of that round. 

Q.   You've struggled through that in the past you told us?
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I have, I've struggled to grind.   The last couple of weeks I've been able to do it well.   I got off to a horrendous start at Quail Hollow last week on the front nine on Friday afternoon and the same thing here.   As I said, it's not the position I want to be in, battling back to make the cut, but at least I'm in for the weekend. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT