WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 4, 2014
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   (No microphone.)
RORY McILROY:   Obviously, yesterday was a good day and got myself back into the tournament a little bit.   Today, today was tricky.   A lot of guys aren't going that low out there.   The wind was up a little bit.   The greens were slower today.   I felt like I was leaving a lot of putts short.   I'm not sure about the other guys out there but I felt like the greens were a lot slower today than they have been.   Maybe it's because I was playing in the morning the last two days, and because it's Bermuda they grow a little bit in the afternoon, but I just felt like I struggled to get the ball up to the hole on the greens. 
Another solid week, top‑10, again. 

Q.   As a matter of fact. 
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, it's solid, it's not really what I want, but it's going in the right direction.   I feel like I'm improving a little bit each and every week and, you know, hopefully one of these weeks it will all come together for me. 

Q.   How special is this place for you, especially there's fans who I think they knew it was your birthday today, as we heard that song around many of the greens, and even here in scoring when you came in. 
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, it's nice.   I always celebrate my birthday this week, here in Charlotte, and I think everyone who comes to the tournament knows that it's my birthday at some point during the week.   So it's nice.   We have our ritual where we go for dinner, and there is usually a good boxing fight on, the Kentucky Derby, as well, it's all going on, great weekend of sports.   It's cool to celebrate your birthday here. 

Q.   Are you pleased going into the PLAYERS next week with how your game is coming around, and the form? 
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, my game is in good shape.   It's consistent.   I'm playing solid.   I just feel like the last few weeks it's been one bad round a tournament that has derailed me from, you know, being right there in contention.   If I hadn't shot you know, like 70 on Friday, I would have been right there in the mix, but it's getting there.   I just need to put four good rounds together.   Like I'm putting three good rounds together at the minute; I'm not able to quite get the fourth one in.   But maybe that will all change next week. 
In good shape going into the PLAYERS. 

Q.   Did you feel like you were putting better as the week went along? 
RORY McILROY:   Friday wasn't good, and yesterday was better, and today I struggled.   I thought the greens were slower today than they had been the rest of the week.   Maybe because I played in the morning time on Friday and Saturday, and the new Bermuda greens here, they might grow a little bit during the day and get a little slower as the day goes on but struggled to get the ball to the hole today. 
I putted okay, held out pretty well, missed a couple, but I feel like that part of my game is heading in the right direction as well. 

Q.   Is there any part of your game that you feel like you need to the next four days strengthen before the first round at Sawgrass? 
RORY McILROY:   Not particularly.   I'm driving the ball really well at the tee, which is key, around Sawgrass.   I think it's just, you know, limiting the mistakes and really, for me, around Sawgrass it's about not getting frustrated and about really managing your game well and being mentally ready for the test that it presents.   I think that's the big thing for me, so that's what I'll be doing, just preparing myself for that the next few days. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, Rory.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT