BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 22, 2014
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   In all the circumstances, how would you sum up your day?   
RORY McILROY:   It was a good day.   I played well.   Hit a lot of solid shots.   The two eagles helped, obviously, and it's a good round for me around this place.   It's a place I've notoriously struggled on in the past, but it was good to shoot something in the 60 tees and I'm looking forward to getting back out on to the golf course tomorrow and doing that again.  
   
 Q.   Is it tough to concentrate?   You said that you expected it to be.   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I think it's only natural.   I don't think you'd be a human being if it wasn't tough, especially when it's a little slow out there and we were walking in between shots.   
But once I had my mind focused on the task at hand, it made it a little easier.   But yeah, I knew; I admitted that yesterday, that it was going to be a tough week for me, and if I can just keep my mind busy and just concentrate on my golf and my gym work and just keep myself going throughout the week, then hopefully make it a bit better for myself.  
   
 Q.   Did you in some respects surprise yourself to score as well as you did in all the circumstances?   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I think that was one thing that pleased me a lot.   I scored well.   I scored really well.   I took advantage of the holes that you need to, apart from 17, but birdied the par5s and made a couple eagles.   It all helps and it's something that I wasn't doing sort of this time last year.   I wasn't scoring and now that element of my game has come back and it's good to see.   
   
 Q.   How would you sort of rate your‑‑ I know it's very difficult to say after a first round but rate your chances for the week now that you've got this under the belt and knowing everything that's going on in the background?   
RORY McILROY:   Honestly, I'd just be delighted to make it to the weekend because I haven't done for the last couple years.   
But I feel like I'm playing well enough to shoot good scores and I'll try and go out tomorrow and shoot something similar or even better and get myself in the mix.   I'm in the Top‑10.   I'm obviously six shots behind, but try to close that deficit as much as possible tomorrow and see what happens.   
   
 Q.   Was the crowd reaction?   Did you feel they were positive toward?   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, maybe a little more than usual.   Not that they are not always positive; I feel like I have a good rapport with the fans.   Yeah, it was nice, I felt like they were quite supportive out there, which was good.   
   
 Q.   Have you ever had an albatross in competition?   
RORY McILROY:   No, I've never had an albatross.   That's one thing he has over me; he's had an albatross and I haven't.   
   
 Q.   Sergio said he was going to reach out to you; has he?   
RORY McILROY:   No, I haven't‑‑ I saw him a couple of days ago.   I haven't turned on my phone for a few days and I've given my laptop away.   I'm sort of living like I'm in the 70s again, 60s.   
   
 Q.   You say it like that's a bad thing.   
RORY McILROY:   No, it's a good thing.   It's nice.   He hasn't; but everyone‑‑ look, everyone goes through it.   It's part of life and it's tough.   It's the way it is.   You know, people that have come up to me have been very supportive and it's been nice.   
   
 Q.   You could have just done this quietly.   You didn't have to put yourself through that tortuous process yesterday.   Why did you?   
RORY McILROY:   I guess it was so much‑‑ it was played out in the media so much that it was probably the best way to do it.   It would be‑‑ it was just a natural thing to do I guess.   
   
 Q.   Are you sleeping well?   Does it affect you that way?   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, it's‑‑ I mean, it's tough.   It's a tough week and I'm not really that comfortable standing here talking about it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT