MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 13, 2014
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   No. 17 played really tough today.   What makes the hole so challenging without Ike's tree?
RORY McILROY:   17?   I guess today was the pin position.   The pin position is just tucked over the bunker, especially with the firm greens it's hard to get close to that pin.

Q.   How will you reflect on the whole Masters?   A really good birdie full round today, but I couple of missed chances on the back nine on the par‑5s. 
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I played the par‑5s in even par this week, which you just can't do out here.   I'm even par for the tournament and even par for the par‑5s.   So you're looking to play the par‑5s somewhere around 10 to 12‑under par.   And obviously if I had of done that it would have been a different story.
It's been a frustrating week, because I felt like from tee‑to‑green I played as good as the leaders.   I don't think I've ever played as good tee‑to‑green around this course as I have this week.   Above par is very comfortable, I just need to take some more chances that I've given myself on the greens.

Q.   Are you getting slightly weary of learning curve math or do you feel this was very significant?
RORY McILROY:   It was.   It was big.   I'm really comfortable on the tees.   I'm really comfortable with the second shots.   I'm comfortable on the golf course.   I figured something in my putting today on the 6th hole.   And then I putted a little better after that.   I wasn't‑‑ where I was ending‑‑ where I thought I was ending the putter was aiming a little left of where I thought it was.   So I was missing a lot of left‑to‑rights.

Q.   Playing with Jordan, what's the thing that impresses you most about him?
RORY McILROY:   I think he doesn't play like a 20 year old.   He plays like a seasoned veteran.   I wouldn't say that any part of his game really stands out.   But everything is just so solid.   He plays to his strengths.   He's very composed for a 20 year old.   And that's why he's had success so early on because he can control his emotions and he's mature.   He's not your typical 20 year old.   He plays like he's been out here for a long time.
That's the thing, I think that's one of his biggest strengths.   Mentally he's really good.

Q.   If you can fast forward two hours and he's won the Masters and his life is about to change, what advice would you give him?
RORY McILROY:   Keep doing what you're doing, be yourself.   There's not really much you can‑‑ I was talking to him around the last couple of days, just around the place. 
20 years old and you're Masters champion, you'll enjoy the next 60 years coming back here (laughter).
But, yeah, he's‑‑ obviously a lot of golf to play, but for a few weeks I felt like my life changed after the U.S. Open, but once you get back to normality you just get on with it and life moves on, and people have is short memories and people forget. 
And I guess if he does, just enjoy it.   It would be an unbelievable accomplishment, youngest ever Masters winner.   And I for one hope it happens. 

Q.   How much does what happened today and the way you came back from adversity so much this year, if you get the opportunity to come back here‑‑
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I was proud of myself after the couple of 6s I had to have a couple of birdies on the back nine.   That was great.   And even some of the bad holes that I had earlier on in the week, to bounce back from them.   Yeah, I've always enjoyed coming back here.   I love the golf course.   I love playing it.   And I know I can do well here.   It's just a matter of making the most of my chances because I gave myself plenty of chances here this week.   If I had converted a few more and just as I said played the par‑5s better, it could have been a different story. 

Q.   Do you feel like with what you figured out with the putting today, that every round you're putting more of it together and one of these days it's all going to come together?
RORY McILROY:   I think so, yeah.   It felt really good in Houston last weekend, I shot 65.   And today was a little better.   But at least that gives me something to work on the next couple of weeks heading to Charlotte and obviously building up towards the U.S. Open. 
At least I figured something out with my putting and I can go with that.   It's something to really work on and something to get right.   And hopefully I can start seeing a few more putts go in, and get more confidence, because there's no real‑‑ my long game is where I need it to be.   It's just taking advantage of the good shots that I'm hitting.

Q.   Have you learned more about Augusta?   Are you still learning about Augusta here? 
RORY McILROY:   No‑‑ I feel more comfortable here.   I feel like I can go out and play my game and hit the shots.   I'm definitely not as tentative around this place as I used to be.   I'm becoming a lot more aggressive and hitting iron shots closer.   And I think that's a good thing because I just feel more comfortable on the golf course.   I'm not as scared with some of the trouble, runoffs.   Because you know what to expect.

Q.   (Inaudible.)
RORY McILROY:   Yes, and I'm looking forward to a couple of weeks off and I'm looking forward to getting back to the playing again.   I've got two big tournaments coming up, Charlotte and TPC, and I want to do well there and feel like I've got it to go and contend.

Q.   On 13 what were you thinking there?
RORY McILROY:   I was thinking it was really good. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT