WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 2, 2014
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, you know, it started with ‑‑ I got a little care less with my first hole, and second hole knocked it a few feet by, so 3‑putt bogey wasn't what I wanted to start off with, and I hit it right behind the tree on the third on the left, and I had to take an unplayable, and I had to take an unplayable on 4, hit my shot left of the green and it ended up in a bush over there.   So just sloppy shots and ended up making two doubles in a row.   I guess after that was a little better but I didn't have my game today.   
Off the tee it was good, I drove the ball pretty well, didn't get the ball close enough with my approach shots, and my putting didn't feel as comfortable today as it did yesterday.   
   
 Q.   Was it difficult for you to gather yourself after that tough start and obviously played well coming in and made the cut.   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I knew that I was capable of coming back, and after that I set myself a target and said if I can get back to even par for the day, that's what I was trying to do.   Obviously I didn't play well enough to do that but I at least made it through to the weekend, but I felt like I gathered myself okay after that, but need to do a little bit of work, go to the putting green and do a little bit of work tonight and come out tomorrow morning and shoot a low score.   
   
 Q.   2010 you made the cut on the number.   You were 10 shots back heading into the weekend.   You made the cut today and headed into the weekend.   Do you believe in history repeating itself?   
RORY McILROY:   I would like to think so.   We saw what Brendon de Jonge did today, shot a 62.   There are low scores out there.   I just need to be a little more clinical with my arm play and get closer to the pin, and then I need to be able to finish them off a little better.   Driving the ball well, at least it's setting me up to at least give myself opportunities where I can try and make birdies, but I need to play very well over the weekend if I'm going to have a chance to do that.   
   
 Q.   Rory, I know it was a tough start for you today, just comment on battling back a little bit and the round overall.   
RORY McILROY:   It wasn't the way that I obviously wanted to start, 5‑over, for three holes.   Hit a couple of sloppy shots, a careless first‑putt on the second and 3‑putted there, and then I didn't hit that bad of a drive on 3, just a little left, and it got behind a tree and I had to take an unplayable, and I hit an awful second shot on 4, hit it 25 yards left of where I was intending to, but gathered myself a little bit after that and battled back okay to make the cut, but obviously not what I was looking for starting off today.   
   
 Q.   What was the biggest adjustment you made out there to get back in and stay around for the weekend?   
RORY McILROY:   I gave myself a target.   I said if I can get back to even par for the day and be 3‑under, I wouldn't be out of it.   I didn't quite get to that point, but I battled back and made the cut so always trying to give myself a target and something to shoot for.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I felt today I got a lot of left‑to‑righters, and what I'm trying to do on my stroke, I'm feeling uncomfortable on my putts, so I am going to go to the putting green and hit a lot of left‑to‑right putts and feel more comfortable over them.   I feel like every time when I feel like I'm aiming correctly I'm aiming too low and not trusting it and not hitting a good putt.   I had a couple little ones, held one on 14, coming in, but I needed to do better.   
   
 Q.   Rory, how much comfort do you take in the fact that the last time you just made the cut you won the tournament?   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, it was the exact same numbers.   I think I was plus 1 for the tournament, and the leader was 9‑under par, and it's the same again, but I mean, I don't know, I'll have to‑‑ I would have to do the exact same thing over the weekend to win, but I am going to work on my clubbing here tonight and try and shoot a low one tomorrow.   At least give myself a chance to do the same thing as I did a few years ago.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
RORY McILROY:   Definitely, it's out there.   Especially I feel like I'm driving the ball well and putting the ball in position where I can attack pins, I just need to do a better job of getting closer and holing some putts.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, Rory.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT