WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 8, 2014
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  RORY McILROY:   It was a tough day.   Hitting two balls in the water, I didn't play the par 5s well at all.   Played those in 4‑over.   So when you do that around here, it's not‑‑ you're sort of putting yourself behind the 8‑ball a little bit. 

Q.   Could you get the cut shot going? 
RORY McILROY:   No, the 10th hole, it was just a poor drive and 8th hole, as well, was poor.   I wasn't trying to cut them at all.   Just trying to hit dead‑straight shots.   Lost them both a little left. 
But for the most part, the rest of the game felt okay, apart from those two holes.   Didn't take advantage of a couple of good positions I got myself into.   Par 5, 12th, hit it just at the green on 16. 
So, yeah, and I felt like I hit some good putts that just didn't drop.   Obviously it was an easier day but it was still a bit of a grind out there.

Q.   How were you feeling yesterday? 
RORY McILROY:   Just tired.   I was sleeping by ten o'clock last night.   I was really beat.   So didn't feel quite as bad, obviously pace of play was quicker today which helps. 

Q.   74 yesterday probably felt like about 68 the way you played on that back nine.   Was it a day for‑‑
RORY McILROY:   It was a day to just sort of shoot something, especially the position I was in, to shoot a couple under and get yourself right there. 
But the way it's looking, it's still not‑‑ no one is getting away.   3‑over par, Patrick read is 3‑under I guess now.   So depending what they do coming in, you've got to think if you start well tomorrow and get off to a fast start, you can still have somewhat of a chance. 
But yeah, just go out and try and play better tomorrow and post a low one and see what happens.

Q.   Can you get aggressive on this course now that they have sort of revamped it? 
RORY McILROY:   It's really hard.   It's really hard to be aggressive.   You're shooting away from a lot of pins.   You're trying to put your ball in the right place.   Even like 12, first and the 12th today, for example, par 5s, I hit two good tee shots down there and the best place to try and leave it was not on the green. 
So when you've got a 4‑iron in to a par 5 and you don't want to hit the green, and you've got a 5‑wood into a par 5 and you'd rather not hit the green, then you know it's just a tricky setup.   It was just where they put the pin positions.   It's very hard to be aggressive.   You've just got to play to the right spots and try and get up‑and‑downs when you can, which it goes against my natural sort of instinct. 

Q.   7 today? 
RORY McILROY:   The second shot was good there.   I just‑‑ it was a wedge.   It was a decent shot that I played, the third shot, sort of belly wedge and I just didn't hold it.   Just under‑read the putt.   Didn't think it was going to go as far left as it did.

Q.   A nice low one would be nice to sort of take before you go to Houston next? 
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, a nice low one and then take three weeks off, that would be a nice way to finish.   I shot 65 here in the last round here last year to get myself in the Top‑10.   I need something like that tomorrow to have a chance to win but to get into the Top‑10, I wouldn't need something that low.
But I'll be trying to go as low as possible.   There's guys out there that shot 5‑ , 6‑under par so, so it's possible. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT