WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 6, 2014
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What are your thoughts on that? 
RORY McILROY:   It was a tough day.   I mean, it was windy out there, a couple of tricky pin positions.   I got off to a really good start, 3‑under through four holes, and then bogeyed the last couple of holes play that I had, 17 and 18.   I hit a really good drive off of 18 and it just‑‑ it pitched on the fairway but just sort of‑‑ Phil, who I was playing with, got unlucky, too, because he actually pitched his second shot on the green and it went in the water. 
So it just‑‑ you know, it's just such a tough hole.   You get it slightly wrong, and you're in the water.

Q.   Is that partly conditions, as well?
RORY McILROY:   Conditions, as well, because the wind was hard off the right.   So, yeah, I think anything under par today has been a pretty good score. 

Q.   Run me through the birdies to start off with. 
RORY McILROY:   So birdied the 10th hole.   I hit a driver and a 5‑wood to pin‑high left, 30 feet and 2‑putted that.
12, I hit a drive into the right rough.   I hit a 5‑wood up into the front bunker.   I hit that bunker shot to maybe five feet and made that. 
13, I hit a 5‑iron to the front of the green and had 53 feet or something and held that, so that was a nice bonus. 
Bogeyed 14.   Hit it in the left bunker off the tee.   Hit it into the front trap.   Hit it up to like eight feet and missed. 
And then 15, hit a really nice little 7‑iron in to eight feet just left of the pin and held that. 
It's good.   Four birdies in the first nine holes is pretty good and I'm in good position going into the first green.   I've only got 190 yards to the front par 5.   So I have give good chance for birdie there. 

Q.   A bit frustrated when that happens to then come off?
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, but it's not a bad thing, coming off two bogeys, I don't mind.   You can sort of regroup and get back out and play nine holes and then you can start fresh for the next nine holes, so it's not so bad.   Doesn't look like we are going to play anymore.

Q.   How keen were you to get a fast start? 
RORY McILROY:   Of course I wanted to get a fast start‑‑ I'm playing well and I referenced it in the press conference, I'm playing well and I'm comfortable with my game.   So I wasn't going to let one bad day last week sort of derail the good path that I'm on. 
So I played well from the start again, and made four birdies already.   Hopefully make a few more and I think anything in these conditions, depending on what it's like, either today or tomorrow, anything in the 60s around here is good. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT