THE HONDA CLASSIC
February 27, 2014
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   7‑under 63, first time you've had a round here without a bogey in 18 rounds.   How were you able to do that? 
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, you know, I played really solid.   I think the key around here this week is‑‑ every week that we play here is hitting fairways and hitting greens.   It's a golf course that if you‑‑ it's a good ball‑striker's golf course.   If you can really keep your ball in play and give yourself plenty of birdie chances, that's sort of the name of the game here.   I made a good par save on 9 which sort of kept that bogey‑free round alive. 

Q.   Everybody talks about the Bear Trap, 15, 16, 17 but 10,11 and 12, here is your long birdie attempt at the 11th.
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, it's been a long hole and you just want to try to get out of there with a four.   I hit a pretty conservative second shot but it was nice to be able to hole that putt.

Q.   How about your second shot here at 12? 
RORY McILROY:   Again it was just a really nice yardage for a gap wedge.   The wind was straight down.   I knew could I go flat out with a wedge and knew it wouldn't get to the back of the green, pitched pin‑high there and was able to convert that one, too. 
17, it's one of these holes, again, you want to try to make three.   I hit a really good 7‑iron in there.   Mum very happy with that. 

Q.   Happy birthday to mom. 
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I'm not going to say how old she is but it's her birthday today. 

Q.   Your third from the bunker at the last? 
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I didn't hit a great second shot but hit a really nice bunker shot there and yeah, it was nice to finish with a birdie.   It's a hole that you want to take advantage of and there was a little bit of left‑to‑right in this putt and just put it right in the middle.

Q.   Bogey‑free 63, and I thought that was as easy a 7‑under as I've ever seen?
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I played really well, very solidly from tee‑to‑green.   Gave myself plenty of chances.   Yeah, I started off really well.   I holed a nice putt on the second for birdie.   Birdied the third, so it's always nice, especially on tough courses like this to get off to a good start.   It's always nice to get under par early, and I just kept it going.   Had a nice little stretch around the turn there on 10,11, 12, and it was nice to finish the way I did, as well.

Q.   First time you've ever been bogey‑free on this track? 
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, not surprised.   It's a tough track.   I don't think many guys have probably gone bogey‑free around this place.   But yeah, it's nice.   It's a great way to start the week obviously and try and keep the bogeys off my card as much as I can. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT