OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 2, 2014
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  RORY McILROY:   Today the greens were a lot firmer.   Just couldn't‑‑ I mean, I actually played the front nine, I thought pretty solid.   Pretty much apart from the par 3, played the front nine well and then just bogeyed 10, good birdie on 11.   The two bogeys on the par 5s on the back nine were obviously not what I was looking for.   
And yeah, I just couldn't seem to‑‑ the golf course just played a lot differently today.   You could see from the scores, there just wasn't any‑‑ I don't know, it was tougher because the greens were firmer to get the ball close and then the rare times I did get the ball close, I didn't make any putts.   
   
 Q.   You were still there right at the turn?  
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I was right there.   Coming back with a birdie on 11 was great and then yeah, I felt‑‑ I wanted to finish from that point, if I could get to 16, I thought that was going to be good and turns out that's what it was, that's what Stephen got to and I wasn't able to get there..  
   
 Q.   Just one of those days?  
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, it was just one of those days.   It was one of those, I think anything that sort of could go wrong did.   I okay I hit a couple of loose drives but I didn't really get away with them or stuff like that.   But yeah, I just sort of, you know, one of those days.   
   
 Q.   You didn't get a couple of putts to go in early on.   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I didn't get a couple of putts to go in and I was struggling to read them today for some reason.   Got JP to start reading them for me on the back nine and started to hole a bit more.   The greens just changed color a little bit and it was very hard to see.   I felt like every putt I saw, like everything I read was straight even though it wasn't.   I just couldn't see any sort of movement on them at all.  
   
 Q.   How impressive was Stephen's performance?   
RORY McILROY:   It was great, obviously birdie at 1 and 13, the way he played down the stretch was impressive.   It was good to see and obviously happy for him.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT