BMW MASTERS PRESENTED BY SRE GROUP
October 27, 2013
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  PAUL SYMES:   Many thanks for joining us, perhaps not quite the week that you had hoped for, but some good signs there at times.
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, for sure.   Definitely wasn't the week that I was hoping for.   I felt like I left a lot of shots out there, especially at the weekend, I felt like I played really well yesterday, and to only shoot 1‑under par and finish the way I did was pretty frustrating.   And then obviously I was trying to push a little bit today at times, and it just didn't quite work out for me. 
So, yeah, frustrating week.   I feel like my game's better than what the results suggest or what the scores suggest.   But it's just a matter of finding a way to I guess put that good golf, what I feel I'm playing, into good scores.   That's the next sort of piece of the puzzle, and hopefully I'm able to do that next week. 
PAUL SYMES:   Down to a little struggle with the putter, is it? 
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I thought the putter got a little better as the week progressed.   I definitely left a few out there on the greens, for sure.   But yeah, the good thing is I'm giving myself plenty of chances for birdies, so if I can keep doing that, then you know, sooner or later they are going to fall and I'm going to start shooting some lower scores. 
Yeah, just a frustrating week, just because I feel like I'm playing better than what the scores and the finish suggests. 
PAUL SYMES:   Another big week, they come thick and fast this time of year, so good to get back on the bike straightaway again? 
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, for sure.   Straight‑‑ next week is a big week for me.   I have to play well to make The Race to Dubai.   Big week for me.   And, yeah, as I said, if my game can stay the way it is and maybe just tighten up the short game a little bit and hole a few more putts, then I feel like I'll have a good chance. 

Q.   On Monday there's a match between Tiger and you; what is your expectation of that match? 
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, it's going to be a lot of fun.   We had a good time last year when we played.   Obviously it's a different venue this time.   But it should be good.   I'm looking forward to it, I'm excited.   It sort of kicks off the start of a busy week.   So I'll go down and play there, and then straight back up tomorrow night back here to Shanghai to get ready for HSBC. 

Q.   So it's a busy schedule:   Shanghai, Haikou and Haikou to Shanghai?
RORY McILROY:   Exactly, all in the space of 24 hours. 

Q.   Do you feel something like tomorrow is a good thing just to give you a break, just to give you sort of a different feel for the week, or is there something in you that says you would like to put your feet up and just get ready for playing on Thursday? 
RORY McILROY:   Probably a little bit of both to be honest.   You know, I know tomorrow is going to be a busy day, but that's fine.   That's expected. 
But yeah, as long as it doesn't take away from my preparations for next week, and that's why I'm playing up‑‑ I was supposed to stay down tomorrow night.   But I'm going to fly up just because I can get a good night's sleep on Monday night and then I have the full day on Tuesday to be able to prepare; obviously on Wednesday you have the Pro‑Am. 
Yeah, I'm looking forward to tomorrow.   It should be good fun.   But I'm looking beyond that and obviously looking to try and prepare the best I can for Sheshan. 
PAUL SYMES:   Thanks very much, Rory, have a good week next week.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT