DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 15, 2013
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Fresh off the course after a 67.   Yesterday you felt disappointed, you felt you had left a few out there; what about today?   
RORY McILROY:   A little better today.   I feel like ball‑striking‑wise, was very similar.   I just took my chances when I got them.   I hit every par 5 in two, had four eagle putts out there and was a bit unlucky on 7, actually finished up on the hill and ended up 3‑putting there.   I made good work on the par 5s and played solid after that.   
Yeah, I mean, I still feel like I can go a lot lower out there, but it's steadily progressing which is a good thing.  
   
 Q.   If I asked you to mark your ball‑striking out of ten, in the early part of the season, the middle of the year and now, what would the marks be?   
RORY McILROY:   I'd say 2, 5, 8.   It's getting up there.   
   
 Q.   You shot two rounds of 66 here last time to win the championship, is that going to be good enough, and do you feel like you're capable of it by the sound of it?   
RORY McILROY:   It will be close.   I think somewhere around 20‑under will win, so it will take a couple of 65s or somewhere around that to have a chance.   
I hit the ball very well, tee‑to‑green was good.   I got off to another fast start.   Played the par 5s well.   If you can do that around that course, it's a good thing starting off playing a par 68 instead of 72 is nice.  
   
 Q.   While we don't know yet what the leaders will achieve, do you feel that you're nicely in the mix there if it's a good weekend?   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, as long as I'm not too far back going into tomorrow; the guys still have a couple of par 5s to play, and they have moved the tee up on both, so they are playing pretty easy.   
But yeah, anything five or six back, I still feel like I have a decent chance.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel it's in there, that low one?  
RORY McILROY:   I do, for sure.   The way I'm hitting the ball, I'm giving myself plenty of birdie chances.   The way I'm playing the par 5s, I feel like there is a low one there.  
   
 Q.   I know we touched on this in the buildup to the event, is there any sense that you're slightly under the radar and the pressure is off a little bit?  
RORY McILROY:   A little bit.   I guess you wouldn't sort of think that with the crowd that was following me around today.   I thought the support today was great and it was great to play in front of them.   You know, hopefully I can make a bit of noise at the weekend.   
   
 Q.   That was a bit better, wasn't it?  
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, ball‑striking‑wise was very good. Still feel like I left a few out there.   Had some good chances coming in, and didn't quite convert, but yeah, I mean, it's steadily progressing and 67 is a good score out there and I'll need to try and go a bit lower over the weekend to have a chance.  
   
 Q.   The fact is, you do know how to go low over a weekend here, don't you, so you must be relishing the prospect.   
RORY McILROY:   Definitely.   It's always nice to go into the weekend feeling like you have a chance to win the golf tournament, and that's the stage I've been trying to get to for the past few months, and I finally feel like I've got to the stage now where I can contend week‑in, week‑out.  
   
 Q.   And that's what you need, isn't it, to feel that heat of battle over the weekend?  
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, and the rare times that I have got in contention this year, I feel like that's when I've played my best golf.   So hopefully that can continue this week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT