DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 14, 2013
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   A little disappointed I'm sure to finish with a six at the last but overall how do you feel about your play today and a score of 1‑under?  
RORY McILROY:   I feel like I played better than the score suggested.   It was sort of one of those ones where I had to turn a 67 into a 71.   It was pretty wasteful on the back nine.   I got off to a great start.   I was 3‑under through four, and 3‑under through seven, and playing really nicely.   
Made a bogey on 8 and just got on a run of pars where I had a good chance at 10, a good chance at 14, 15, 16.   So there was a few chances out there that I didn't take.   So, I mean, coming off the course pretty disappointed.   I know that there's a low score out there.   
   
 Q.   We've spoken this week about the fact that you have been distracted at times on the golf course this year.   Is your mind clear now?  
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, it definitely is.   It's much better than it has been the last few months.   Yeah, it helps that I'm playing better and I'm more comfortable with my game.   Of course that helps, too.   That's the most important thing.   
Even if there are distractions away from the golf, if you're still swinging well and playing well, it's not going to affect you as much as if you are struggling a little bit.   It's good that the game is back on track and that's the most important thing.   
   
 Q.   How important to get a good, solid finish to this year and give yourself some momentum to build on next year?  
RORY McILROY:   I think it's very important.   That's what I've sort of been saying and stressing for the last few weeks.   I had a three‑week trip in Asia which I felt went pretty well.   Then I've got three tournaments left still, this one and two more, so it would be great to get a win before the end of the season.   But just some solid performances going into next year would be great.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT