PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 8, 2013
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  RORY McILROY:   I played well.   I got off to a fast start, obviously.   I was 3‑under threw nine holes.   I felt like I played really, really well on the front nine. 
Made a couple of bogeys on the back nine, on 10 and 11, sort of halted the momentum.   And then the horn blew for the weather, so having to come in for a little bit.   It was nice to be able to make my birdie putt on 12 as soon as we got back out there.
Had a chance on 13, didn't quite make it.   But overall it was good.   I mean, to shoot under par today was a solid way to get off to any major.

Q.   Were you surprised by the number of guys who went lower than you?
RORY McILROY:   No, not at all.   Soft conditions, obviously a lot of rain last night.   You know, it's not like there's guys that are so far ahead.   5‑under is leading at the minute.   You go and you get off to a good start tomorrow, you are right there.

Q.   Did your game plan change plan at all?
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, a little bit.   I mean, a few tees were moved back.   They had us playing off the front tee boxes in the practice rounds, so a few tees moved back.   I took driver off the first when I going to hit 3‑wood. 
But really apart from that, it was I'm probably hitting a few more drivers out there than most of the other guys.   My game plan didn't change apart from that first hole.

Q.   How many do you think you hit?
RORY McILROY:   Drivers?   8, 8 drivers.

Q.   What is the hardest part for you about finding consistency hole to hole, round to round?   Secondly, was today positive or was it more frustrating?
RORY McILROY:   Today was definitely positive.   I felt like I played really, really well. 
I didn't play so well coming in, but I thought for the first holes it was really good.   And consistency day‑to‑day or hole to hole, you know, focus on each and every shot and try not to think ahead too much or think about anything else and really just focus on my shot.   That is what I'm trying to do.

Q.   Does it say something about this tournament that a guy like Jim Furyk is at the top? 
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, you know, you don't need to be particularly long on this golf course.   Yeah, I mean, it's no surprise Jim is up there.   I mean, it is a course that is tree lined.   It gives you a nice visual off the tee boxes and off greens. 
Yeah, there's obviously a lot of good players at the top of the leaderboard.   Adam Scott has been playing well.   He seems to be playing well every week.

Q.   What is your thinking behind the eight drivers instead of hitting a fairway wood?
RORY McILROY:   I don't know, I guess I've always been that way inclined just to try and get driver in my hand whenever I can.   The only‑‑ I was planning on hitting driver on 9, but it went downwind so I hit 3‑wood.   Had a good one there. 
Holes like 12 and 14, a few guys won't be hitting driver.   I feel like I can get it up close to the green on 12, give myself a good second shot and then I can get it up around the green on 14 as well.   Taking that option this week.

Q.   When you are here a couple of months ago for Media Day, the conditions were wet.   Did you feel more prepared because of that?
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, Media Day here was cold and wet.   I felt the golf course played a lot longer than it does this week.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT