WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 1, 2013
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Some good, some bad.   How do you assess today?
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, some good, some bad.   I felt like I hit a lot of good shots out there, drove the ball well for the most part, gave myself a lot of chances for birdies, and I just threw a few shots away around the greens, made double at 10 from nowhere, don't get up‑and‑down from the edge of the green on the 8th hole, things like that, don't get up‑and‑down from the edge of the green on 18. 
You know, you start to save shots there, and all of a sudden you're 3‑, 4‑under par, 5‑under par. 
No, I played well, hit a lot of good shots and felt more comfortable with my putting, which was a good sign.

Q.   How did you keep things from getting off track after 10?
RORY McILROY:   I set myself a goal.   I just wanted to get back to even par.   So I tried to do that.   I birdied 12 and 13, which got me back to par, and then I started to hit some really good shots. 
I hit a great shot into 14 that I didn't convert and then I hit a really good iron shot onto 15 which I made for birdie.
Just trying to stay patient.   I mean, we've got four days here, so no point in trying to be aggressive.

Q.   (Inaudible.)
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I mean, I'm just trying to enjoy myself this week, enjoy my golf, play with a bit more of a smile on my face, and I sort of did that. 
I really enjoyed Brandt's company out there.   We had a lot of laughs, and looking forward to getting back out there tomorrow.

Q.   That was a good run from 12 on. 
RORY McILROY:   I played some really nice shots.   Even from 11, hit a great drive up 11, great iron shots into 12, two good shots into 13, two good shots into 14, great shot into 15.   So I got on a run there, which was great to see.

Q.   Do you play better with a smile on your face or do you have a smile on your face when you play better?
RORY McILROY:   I think the two go hand in hand.   I think you have to have a positive attitude out there to play well.   But saying that, it's easier to smile when you play well.

Q.   Can I get your reaction to what Inbee Park is doing right now?
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I saw she shot 3‑under today, three back?   That's incredible.   I think she started even better.   I think she was 6‑under through 10 or something.   Personally I'd love to see her do it.   I think it would be great for the game of golf, great for ladies' golf.   Yeah, I mean, I really hope she does.   I think a lot of people hope that she goes on and does it because it's something that may never happen again.   It's very impressive.   I'll be keeping up to date this week. 

Q.   How much are the players out here keeping track of that?   Are guys talking about it or following it?
RORY McILROY:   I'm not sure.   I know that I am and I know like the people that I have with me are and stuff.   I know my dad watched a little bit of it this morning on TV.   But yeah, as I said, it would be great to see her do it, especially at St. Andrews.

Q.   Do you come into this tournament with some positives knowing this is where you turned it around last year?
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I feel very comfortable on this golf course.   I see my shots off the tee.   I feel comfortable.   I like the greens.   I feel just comfortable on the golf course.   Yeah, of course you come in‑‑ I've played well here.   I think I've had a fifth and a sixth the last couple of years, so I've played well here, and I come in with obviously some good positive thoughts. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT