THE BARCLAYS
August 24, 2013
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How would you assess today?   
RORY McILROY:   It was good in parts.   It was tricky conditions, and it was tough to gather the wind sometimes and get the right distance.   Yeah, still, there was obviously a few good scores out there, but I felt like I could have been a couple of shots better and given myself a little bit more of a chance going into tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   So it was the conditions that were tricky‑‑ that must make you feel that it's not your‑‑  
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, my game feels good.   Probably could have held a couple more putts, but the greens got pretty quick out there, and with the wind, as well, pretty tricky.   
Game feels good.   Go out tomorrow, give it a good rip and see how low I can go.   
   
 Q.   Kevin Chappell shot a 62; what did you think?  
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, it was a great score.   I didn't see that score out there.   I thought maybe 66, 67, but 62 out there in those conditions today is very, very impressive.   
   
 Q.   A 64, a 63 and a 63; is there a lower score out tomorrow?  
RORY McILROY:   I'm not sure.   I hope so.   Depending on the conditions, but yeah, I mean, to go out there and give it my best shot and see what happens.   
   
 Q.   What's your frame of mind?  
RORY McILROY:   Just be aggressive.   Go out there, try and go after as many pins as I can and get it in the fairway and give myself as many chances for birdie.   Just be aggressive and try and make birdies.   
   
 Q.   Tiger said that if you're feeling 'frisky,' you can do that, the way the conditions are; the fairways are rolling.   
RORY McILROY:   You can, yeah.   You can get it close to some of these greens.   You can get wedges in your hand quite a lot and obviously it gives you a better chance to get it close to the pin.   
So yeah, I mean, you can go after it.   If the wind died down a little bit tomorrow, you'll see a few guys shoot a few good numbers I'm sure.  
   
 Q.   What is it generally about your game that has you encouraged?   
RORY McILROY:   Just everything.   I'm seeing the shots.   I'm striking the ball well.   Short game seems pretty sharp and I'm rolling the ball nicely.   Everything just feels pretty good.   
   
 Q.   What's it going to take from‑‑ for you being good to Rory at his top?   
RORY McILROY:   I don't know, a little bit more‑‑ I mean, I'm confident out there.   I feel like I'm playing well.   Getting myself into contention and doing it when it really matters.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT