THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2013
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Any better today?
RORY MCILROY:  A little better.  I needed to get off to a
fast start to have any chance of being here for the weekend.  I
was 5-over through seven holes, so that didn't really happen.  But
after that I just decided to try and -- I guess practice a little
bit for the next few weeks coming up.  And I decided that I was
going to hit driver every hole that I could, because that's going
to be a big factor the next few weeks, and I actually drove the
ball pretty well, and ended up playing the last 11 holes under
par.  That was encouraging, but obviously I'm disappointed to be
going home for the weekend.  It's the first time I've missed a cut
at the Open, so it's obviously quite disappointing.
Q.  What frame of mind do you leave The Open Championship in?
Obviously there's a big disappointment in yesterday.
RORY MCILROY:  Disappointed, but I guess I have a clearer
picture of what I need to work on and what I need to do to put
things right.  Sometimes this game can feel further away than it
actually is.  And obviously at the end of yesterday it couldn't
have felt much further away.  And today you played the last 11
holes like that, you see some positive signs.  And you try and
sort of take anything you can from that.
Q.  Can you fix it before the defense of the US PGA?
RORY MCILROY:  We'll see.  I've got a nice run of events
coming up, six events in the next eight weeks.  I'm looking
forward to playing golf and playing tournaments and getting into a
run of events.
Q.  Playing more regular golf, do you think that will be a
big help for you?
RORY MCILROY:  I think so.  I think playing a bit more
golf will definitely help.  Because it's more of a scoring issue,
even if I -- I don't want to say I wasn't sharp coming in here,
but a couple of weeks off, you get on that first tee again on
Thursday, and it feels a little different, obviously, to when
you've been practicing for two weeks.
So I'm looking forward to the next round of events coming
up.  It should be good to get some more competitive play and see
how that goes.
Q.  What are the positive signs?  You've gone down a
different road the last two weeks, do you think it's the right
road?
RORY MCILROY:  Yeah, I mean I took myself away and just
hit balls and tried to figure out what was maybe not quite right
technically.  And I think I just need to sort of forget about that
and just go and play golf.  And go and try to score and shoot
scores and be on the golf course.  I think that's something that
is very important for these next few weeks.
Q.  The crowd out there today, do you feel they were willing
you to play well?
RORY MCILROY:  Yeah, it was a bit like a sympathy out
there.  (Laughter).
But it was nice, obviously they were willing me to play
well.  It's disappointing to obviously not be here for the
weekend, it's good to play in front of these crowds.
Q.  The links experience here, it was always going to be
difficult.  Bridgestone last year you turned it around, the whole
season, from the next tournament on.  Is that a course you're
going to enjoy?
RORY MCILROY:  Yeah, I'm going to look forward to it,
four really good competitive rounds there.  I'm looking forward to
that and it's a great prep for the PGA.  I'm really looking
forward to Akron.  It's a place I've done well before.  It's a
place I feel I can win.
So going there, really excited to just play four rounds
of golf.  There's no cut (laughter).  But then, obviously, play
and practice, it's a great place to practice, as well.  Great
facilities and obviously you couldn't ask for better preparation
for the defense of the PGA the week later.
Q.  You talked yesterday that you hit the ball well
yesterday, was it pretty much a carryover into today, as well?
RORY MCILROY:  I hit it okay.  A couple of missed shots
here and there.  But it wasn't my best ball-striking round.  But
it was okay.  On other days I could have hit it like that and shot
something a lot better, just because the scoring aspect of my game
isn't where it needs to be.
Q.  How much of that comes into play, though, that if you're
not playing well, your disappointment, does that start to build
after a while?  As you said, you took out some clubs you normally
wouldn't have played.
RORY MCILROY:  Yeah, exactly.  But I still wanted to get
something out of it, those last ten holes.  I wanted to at least
say, okay, I'm going to work towards building up for the next
tournament and hit driver, because driver is going to be very
important around Akron.  And I hit some good drives out there.
And by the looks of it I should have probably hit driver
everywhere this week.  It might have done me better.
Q.  You know what you're able to do because you've done it
before, won Majors.  Can you talk about the disappointment you
have in yourself or is that overstating the case?
RORY MCILROY:  Yeah, I mean -- yeah, I can't really be
disappointed in myself because I don't feel like I've done
anything wrong in terms of like underprepare or not taking it --
I've done everything I could; it just didn't work out for me.
Q.  A lot of that is the grind.  If you're playing at your
best, how hard it is out here, right?
RORY MCILROY:  Yeah, exactly.
Q.  Does that tell a lot about what this week was?
RORY MCILROY:  Yeah, it's going out there this afternoon,
it's bouncy, it's firm.  It was very tricky.  I don't think anyone
in the last 20 groups has shot under par, it just shows you how
tough it was.
Q.  Could G-Mac or Darren do it?
RORY MCILROY:  I know G-Mac finished on 4 and Darren
finished on 1.  Yeah, they're close enough to the lead, so they
can -- obviously Clarkie has had that Claret Jug before, and it
would be good to see him win it this weekend.
Q.  You haven't lost your sense of humor, on 17?
RORY MCILROY:  That was a very big putt for me (laughter)
but, yeah.
Q.  Keep it in perspective?
RORY MCILROY:  Yeah, exactly, have to.
Q.  If somebody were to ask you the No. 1 reason why you
haven't won this deep into the season what would you say?
RORY MCILROY:  I don't know if I can single out one
thing.  I think it's been a combination of things, to be honest.
I think schedule hasn't been quite right.  Swing hasn't been quite
right.  And a combination of those has led to, I guess, sloppy
play, just because of not sharp enough.  Because whenever you're
swinging it well and you're confident, you can take a couple of
weeks off, go to the next event and play and you're okay.  But,
yeah, I think when I am struggling with my game.  I think it's
better to play my way out of, and that's something I haven't
really done this year.









END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT