PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 10, 2013
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Get a sense of how far those last two birdies are going to go?  
RORY McILORY:   Those last two holes are playing really tough.   
I had a great drive up 17 and still had 225 to the pin.   I hit a good one.   I mean, I'm not sure short.   
On the last hole, it's playing so tough into the wind, as well, pretty tricky little pin position there.   I probably made up at least three, three and a half shots on those last two holes.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
RORY McILORY:   Yeah, it was‑‑ I had 175 to the front.   I know if I really flight down a 4‑iron, it will pitch around there.   So I just tried to keep a 4‑iron down as much as I could and hit it as hard as I could.   It pitched right on the front edge and obviously just ran a little bit through.   But couldn't have pitched a more perfect pitch.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
RORY McILORY:   Yeah, it's getting there.   It was good to feel the sort of rush again.   
I felt it a bit in San Antonio this year.   You know, I had a good chance to win there, and I holed some pretty good putts coming down the stretch which didn't matter the end.   It was great.   It was great to feel that.   
Making a birdie on 17 is like an eagle and then to follow it up with another on the last is even better.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
RORY McILORY:   Yeah, no other option.  
   
 Q.   Club on the 17?   
RORY McILORY:   5‑iron.   It was 180 at front and the pin was on like 25.   So I was just trying to pitch it somewhere in the front third of the green.   If it pitched a little further, if it was a little further left, it would have got the downslope and went a little bit further on and closer to the hole, but yeah.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
RORY McILORY:   No, just mark the ball and pick them up and away you go.   It was right beside the trash cans.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
RORY McILORY:   It started last week.   I mean, I had 24 putts for 71 on Friday.   Pretty soon I had 25 putts for 69 on Saturday.   So my short game has been really, really good.   
It was just a matter of trying to get a long game in shape.   I wouldn't say that that was my best ball‑striking round out there by any means, but I got it up and down when I needed to and that was the most important thing.  
   
 Q.   What did you think of your chances last night and what do you think of them now?  
RORY McILORY:   I knew they were going to toughen the golf course up today.   I sort of thought two 65s would still have a chance, so ten under par.   
But the way the conditions are with the swirling wind, it's tricky out there.   I felt like I still had a chance.   Every time I'm in that position I just think back to Quail Hollow a few years ago and what I did the weekend there.   It gives me a bit confidence knowing that I've been in that position before and I've been able to win.   I know this is a major championship and it's a bit different, but I felt good enough about my game that I could go out there and post a good one today and at least give myself a chance going into tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
RORY McILORY:   Yes, very aware.   I'm going to enjoy watching this afternoon.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
RORY McILORY:   Yeah, to play like that on this golf course and do what I needed to do yesterday just to make the cut, and then to go out and play the way I did today, yeah, I mean, it's been a good stretch of holes.   
I've got another 18 to play, and hopefully I can just keep playing the way I am.  
   
 Q.   Did you ever see the highlights of the '95 Ryder Cup?  
RORY McILORY:   No.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT