THE IRISH OPEN
June 27, 2013
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  RORY McILROY:   It definitely wasn't one of my greatest rounds ever, but yeah, I got a couple over early and was trying to get back into the round and just didn't seem to have anything.   Whenever I gave myself chances for birdies, I didn't make them, and then I made a couple of stupid bogeys on the par 5s.   So all in all, wasn't what I wanted.

Q.   Was it one of those days where every aspect of your game was just ever so slightly off? 
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, pretty much.   There's a few good shots out there but for the most part, everything just wasn't firing on all cylinders, and, yeah, that's what happens.

Q.   Seven shots behind your playing partner today, Shane Lowry, how do you see the tournament now?
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I mean, I just want to go out and try and play well tomorrow, and make the weekend I guess.   Shane played a really good round of golf out there.   He had one bogey, and he played very, very well.   He looks like he's in control of his game.   You know, it would be great to see him up there and in contention in the weekend.

Q.   Is it difficult when your playing partner is playing well, hitting fairways and hitting greens and you're just trying to inject a bit of life in your own round?
RORY McILROY:   A little bit, yeah, sometimes you can feed off your playing partners, but today was one of those days where Shane was playing well, Thomas was playing well, and I was trying to get myself back in there, but it just wasn't quite possible. 
But you know, I'll go and work on it a little bit this afternoon and hopefully shoot a better round tomorrow.

Q.   Even with three days still left in the tournament, do you find yourself midway through rounds like that, almost trying a little too hard, particularly in front of your own fans, trying to eek every little bit out of the round, almost trying too hard? 
RORY McILROY:   A little bit I guess.   I guess when you're 2‑ or 3‑over and your playing partners are 2‑ or 3‑under, you're thinking, well, I should be that, as well. 
So you're always pushing, you're always pushing, but it just‑‑ yeah, my game isn't quite there at the minute where I feel like I can push and sort of make birdies when I need to. 
But I feel like I'm hitting the ball pretty well on the range.   I see some good signs out on the course with some shots that I hit, but there just need to be more of them.

Q.   Finally, I guess Tiger has had to deal with it for a long time but it comes with the territory, being major champion, being ranked 1 or 2 in the world, even when you have not played your best round and you're out of contention, you have to do all of these post‑round interviews and speak to five or six different people; is that difficult?   What's it like for you?
RORY McILROY:   It's okay.   I don't mind that at all.   I guess you just have to, you know, I guess people like to make a bigger deal of it than what it is, and as long as you don't get caught up in that and start to panic and start to think, you know, I'm really not playing well; just grind it out and try and shoot good scores, and know that‑‑ I was in a worse position with my game at this time last year and I turned it around pretty well, so there's no reason why I can't do it again.

Q.   So confident enough there's not only plenty left in the season but even this week or weekend? 
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, exactly, first and foremost is the make the weekend and then go from there.   But a good round tomorrow would definitely give me a lot of confidence going into the weekend.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT