U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 15, 2013
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   (No Microphone.)  
RORY McILROY:   If you're not on your game a hundred percent, you get on the wrong side of the greens and it's just freighting because I didn't feel like I played too badly.   I missed a few shots here and there, and I was trying on every shot out there and I was trying to get myself back into it, but it's tough.   If you're just not a hundred percent on top of your game, it's going to expose some of your flaws or weaknesses.  
   
 Q.   Great birdie to start, but then a wayward drive on 2.   Does that kind of zap the confidence a little bit?  
RORY McILROY:   I guess I was missing my woods right and my irons left.   So it was a bit of a weird one today.   But I made a good bogey.   I made a good bogey on the second and that sort of kept the momentum going.   
You get off to a good start and you don't want to make seven.   And to make birdie with the second ball was to limit the damage done and then I just went into a bad stretch there.   I bogeyed 3 and 5 and 6, which are tough holes.   
And then getting the birdie at 7, I thought that maybe I would have a few chances coming up and I just wasn't able to take advantage of those.  
   
 Q.   How do you reassess your goals tomorrow?   Are you too far back?  
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I think so.   It would take something unbelievable and the scores aren't that low out there, so I think I'm 27th at the minute.   I guess, if I play well, try and get in the top‑10, that would be realistic.  
   
 Q.   (No Microphone.)  
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, it does.   It's close and then I had a couple, you know, there are signs during every round that it's there and then it sort of hits a bit of a struggle for a few holes and then it comes back.   
Yeah, shots like the shot I hit into 17 there with the 2‑iron gave me a lot of confidence knowing that it's in there somewhere.   So I just got to go out and try and do better tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   There's so many good shots in your locker right now.   Is it just a bit of fluency and confidence missing or is it some little key that you just can't click on to?  
RORY McILROY:   I think it's confidence and fluidity.   I don't have any other way to explain it.   I've been working on the swing quite hard over the last few months, and it looks really good on camera.   I just get on the course and I hit a couple of bad shots and it sort of ‑‑ I guess that it sort of makes you lose confidence a little bit during the round.   
But I don't know, it's just, yeah, it's just a bit of a struggle and it seems like if I've had a few too many tournaments this year where I've struggled in one round or a couple of rounds and not been able to put it all together.  
   
 Q.   You have a great game in there somewhere.   Is there somewhere this summer that it could click like it did last year?   Do you feel it's that close?  
RORY McILROY:   I really do.   I don't feel like it's too far away at all.   Its just a matter of believing and staying patient and working hard and knowing that you work on the right thing, you're going to turn it around.  
   
 Q.   Could it happen tomorrow?   A low round might not get you a victory.   
RORY McILROY:   I'm 8‑over par for the Tournament.   Yeah, I reckon I could get back to 3‑ or 4‑over par for the Tournament and finish this U.S. Open on a positive note and get something out of it at least.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT