BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 23, 2013
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What changed after 12 holes, 3‑under par going beautifully and everything seemed to change?
RORY McILROY:   Played the first 12 holes really, really well, 3‑under par.   I didn't hit a great tee shot on 13 but took my medicine and took 5 there. 
Felt like I played the next few holes okay, feel like I played 15 pretty well, parred 16.   And hit another poor drive on 17 and again took my medicine, made six. 
Tried to make birdie at the last and salvage something.   Feel like I hit a really good tee shot on the last.   It just went sort of ten yards too far and had to take an unplayable.   Yeah, got a way from me.

Q.   Are there positives that you can take from that?
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, for sure.   For the first 12 holes I played really, really well.   I hit a lot of good shots, even though on the way in‑‑ just one of those rounds that just got a way from me for a little bit.

Q.   Not for the first time this year, your press conference was about things other than golf, your managing company split, etc., etc.; is that a distraction?
RORY McILROY:   No, not at all.   I just didn't play well enough out there to‑‑ I mean, I did.   I just didn't get a lot out of the round.   Even when I was 3‑under through 12, I felt it could have been a little bit better and when things started to not go my way, I just didn't really hold it together too well. 

Q.   What was it like out there? 
RORY McILROY:   It was tricky.   The conditions are obviously not ideal.   It's cold; it's windy.   The golf course is playing pretty long. 
So it's tough to shoot a low score out there.   I felt like I was doing pretty well after the first 12 holes and just let the round get away from me.   But yeah, I think the guys that are going out this afternoon are going to find it pretty tough out there.

Q.   What happened in the last six holes that did not happen the first 12? 
RORY McILROY:   I hit a couple of loose tee shots on 13 and 17.   Apart from that, I mean, I 3‑putted 14; and then really, I think I got a bit unlucky on 18.   Felt like I hit a good drive.   Just went through the fairway and ended up having to take an unplayable. 
But yeah, it was just one of those rounds that I let slip through my fingers.   It could have been something that was good out there and could have been near the top of the leaderboard but instead I am where I am. 

Q.   You're used to British weather conditions, but how tricky was that under the trees with the wind swirling?
RORY McILROY:   It was tough.   The thing that gets me is the cold.   When the hands get old‑‑ I was wearing mittens all day.   It's just tough.   Your body just doesn't feel the way it usually does whenever you're playing and we are so used to playing in warm conditions these days.   It's a little bit of a change. 

Q.   That must be a frustrating feeling walking off with that score given where you were at one stage in your rounds?
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, as I said, I played really well for the first 12 holes.   I feel like for the most part of the round I played well, and this just sort of got a way from me.   I missed a couple of putts for par on 14 and 15, and you know, apart from that, I felt‑‑ I a couple loose tee shots but it wasn't anything disastrous out there.   Got on a run where I was making bogeys and couldn't quite stop it.

Q.   Does it feel like it's a bit of a theme, you seem to sort of come off rounds a lot and say, I'm not doing much wrong and it's just not being reflected on the scorecard. 
RORY McILROY:   Exactly, I played‑‑ the first 12 holes, I didn't really miss a shot.   Yeah, you know, I just feel at the minute I'm not getting as much out of my rounds as I should do.   But you know, have another opportunity tomorrow to go out there and play well again hopefully and get more out of it. 

Q.   What do you put that down to, do you think? 
RORY McILROY:   I'm not sure.   I really don't know because for the first 12 holes, as I said it was very good golf and very solid.   I just got on a run, and I couldn't get off of it.   I don't know, I don't know what I can put it down to.   Just a matter of maybe not letting the bad shots affect me as much.   But yeah, I don't know. 

Q.   It's bitterly cold.   Does that have a factor given the nature of the conditions that you've played all year? 
RORY McILROY:   It does, yeah.   Especially when you stand on tee boxes for a few minutes waiting for the group ahead to go.   You get cold and your body sort of‑‑ I'd love to say I'm used to playing in these conditions.
But I feel like I'm not, I'm pretty unfamiliar with them over the past few years playing in warmer climates, and it takes a bit of an adjustment.   Your body doesn't feel the same as when it does when you're playing in warm weather and your hands get very cold and I was wearing mittens all day to try keep them warm.   Yeah, hopefully shoot a decent score tomorrow and get in for the weekend.     The weather is supposed to improve then.

Q.   Any lapses in concentration, you wouldn't put that down to stuff that's going on in the background at all?
RORY McILROY:   No, not at all.   No, not at all.   I just‑‑ I don't know what I would put it down to.   Just a couple of missed timed swings and all of a sudden the round can change.

Q.   Didn't quite see the tee shot, where did you say it finished? 
RORY McILROY:   I hit it where I wanted to, it was right of the bunkers but went through the fairway a little too far and into the bushes.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT