THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE INSURANCE
June 1, 2013
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about, you had things going pretty good before the delays?  
    RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I played better.   I played much better.   Yesterday it was funny, I was just a little off, my concentration just wasn't really there.  
    Today I really focused and saw my shots a lot better.   And I played nicely so far.   I need to continue to keep that going.   The greenside shots on 2 and 15.   Hopefully get that up and down in the morning.   Yeah, the major goal today was to try to make it into the weekend.   I'm on the right track to do that, about three and a half more holes tomorrow morning.  
   
 Q.   Are you a little disappointed since you had things going that‑‑  
    RORY McILROY:   Not really, I mean the first long delay we all came back into the clubhouse I had just hit my tee shot on 12, and we went back out there and it was calm, I wish I had waited.   I got it up and down for par and made birdie.   I played the hole after the delay was 1‑under.  
   
 Q.   Did you see much difference in the course after you went back out?  
    RORY McILROY:   Yeah, the greens were definitely a lot softer.   The whole course was much more receptive.   I thought the greens got a little fiery, when we fired off today.   But the rain softened them up a bit, which was nice.   And hopefully we'll come out in the morning and find similar conditions to what it was tonight, where there's not much wind and the golf course is receptive and have a couple of chances coming in.  
   
 Q.   Outside of the concentration, did you work anything overnight?  
    RORY McILROY:   I guess I was hanging a few shots to the right.   It's more to do with just committing and really getting through the ball.   I guess just being more aggressive through the ball instead of guiding a little bit yesterday, something you definitely shouldn't do.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT