THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 9, 2013
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Was the back nine that much easier or did your game change a little bit? 
RORY McILROY:   I think it is.   I mean, the back nine you've got some opportunities there.   You've got a par‑5, 11; short par‑4, 12.   I hit a great shot into 14, and then 16, another scorable par‑5, and 17 is probably as easy as we're going to get it all week. 
You know, it was benign out there.   There wasn't much wind.   It was perfect conditions for scoring, and I was able to take advantage of those.

Q.   Hard to be disappointed with 6‑under, but you were 6‑under after 11 holes, I think, right? 
RORY McILROY:   Yeah.   I think a little disappointed not to birdie the 9th hole, but apart from that, I played well.   I gave myself plenty of chances.   Definitely could have been better, but I'm not complaining.   It's my first round under par on this golf course, so I'll take anything I can get.

Q.   Did you recognize that early on when you got 2‑ or 3‑under, you went, hey, this is different? 
RORY McILROY:   I guess a little bit.   The first year I was here I was 2‑under with two to play and shot 74.   So I have been under par here before.   But I played well, continued to do what I've been doing well, brought that from last week into here, and hopefully I can keep doing that.

Q.   You talked about what you did at Crooked Stick and Kiawah, too, on the Pete Dye layouts.   Is there something about this Dye design?
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, definitely.   I'm figuring out how to play it and how to play Pete Dye golf courses.   Even Whistling Straits back in '10 or whatever it was, I got to the golf course and I didn't really like it and sort of tried to get myself to like it for that week, finished third. 
So, yeah, I think everyone has got their own opinions of his golf courses, and I've learned to like them.

Q.   What do you like now about this course compared to a couple of years ago? 
RORY McILROY:   I think I embrace the strategic element of it a lot more.   I was always one with these sort of courses, oh, I can't hit driver anywhere.   It doesn't give me an advantage that I have on some other golf courses, but I embrace that now and embrace that challenge. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT