BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 24, 2013
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  RORY McILROY:   It was just a tough day.   I didn't get off to the best start, was 2‑over through three, made a couple of birdies to get back to level and it was a grind.   It was tough to really make any ground out there this afternoon.   Looks like the cut is going to be 2‑over, which is a low cut; that's good quality golf out there.   
For me, yeah, it just was a grind and I didn't play particularly well today.   You know, I was missing a lot of greens and couldn't really give myself many chances to make any shots back and obviously try to get into the weekend.  
   
 Q.   You were feeling really confident; was it just the conditions and you don't like the cold, we know that.   
RORY McILROY:   A little bit, definitely looking forward to getting back into some golf where I'm not playing in four layers.   It's the same for everyone out there, and that's not really an excuse.   I just didn't play well.   When I sort of play in these conditions, I sort of try and do too much with the ball sometimes and sort of‑‑ instead of trying to imagine that I'm playing it like it's flat calm; and if I try and do too much with it, I start to hit some bad shots and those bad shots obviously cost me.   
   
 Q.   Memorial next week and U.S. Open just a couple of weeks away, so you're not concerned, some time with your coach and you'll have it all figured out?   
RORY McILROY:   I don't even think it's that.   For 12 holes or 13 holes yesterday, I played really, really well and it's just when the weather started to turn a little bit, I didn't hang in there and play so well but looking forward to the next few weeks, some really big tournaments coming up, and I'll get some good practise in between now and next Thursday.   
   
 Q.   What is it about this golf course that doesn't agree with you?  
RORY McILROY:   I'm not so sure.   I was talking to G‑Mac about it, his best finish around here is tied 13th and mine's fifth.   When I had the fifth place, it was before the changes were made.   
So, I don't know.   I just feel like it's a tough golf course.   It's even tougher in these conditions.   I just didn't give myself any opportunities for birdies out there.   Just made way too many mistakes and hit too many bad shots.   But yeah, look, I've still got a lot of good tournaments coming up, and very busy summer and looking forward to that.  
   
 Q.   We see you with a ski hat on and five layers on; how miserable was it out there?  
RORY McILROY:   It wasn't too good.   It's definitely not the weather that you expect at the end of May in London.   But it was the same for everyone out there; everyone found it cold and miserable and some guys just deal with it better than others.   
   
 Q.   What's the plan now, going to enjoy the British summer?   
RORY McILROY:   I'm not sure actually.   I'm not sure what I'm going to do.   I've got Memorial next week so maybe head over there and get a couple days practise in Ohio.   But apart from that, not really sure where I'm going to spend the weekend.   
   
 Q.   Paris?   
RORY McILROY:   Could be an option.   Monaco Grand Prix is on, too.   Could go back there and catch that.   Yeah, it's a bit disappointing.   Would have been nice to make the weekend here.   I think the weather is supposed to improve, as well, the next couple of days.   But yeah, I'll try and‑‑ I wouldn't mind getting some practise in the next couple of days and heading over to Memorial.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT