WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 4, 2013
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Rory, you were probably concerned and scraping the round for 73 today, but it doesn't hurt you?
RORY McILROY:   No, I don't think I was necessarily scraping it around.   I think from tee to green it was actually okay, but when I got on the greens it was a problem.   I gave myself a lot of chances out there for birdies and even some short par putts from 4 or 5 feet. 
I just couldn't hole anything today.   I think when you miss a few putts on these greens, you sort of lose confidence in your stroke and then it's just sort of hard to commit fully to what you want to do.   If I want to hole some putts tomorrow, I need to do a better job of that.

Q.   You were hitting the ball relatively close to the flag though. 
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, the I mean through the first.   3, I missed a really good chance there, made one at 4, three‑putt at 5, made one at 7, missed a short one at 8, missed a short one at 9, and then 11, 12, 14, 15, there were so many chances out there that I could have taken. 
But I'm only 3‑back.   I think they may have given me a little bit of a birthday present right there.   I'm only 3‑back heading into tomorrow, and that's as good as I could ask for.

Q.   In the case where you say you're having a little trouble feeling confidence with the putter, the age‑old question is how do you overcome that? 
RORY McILROY:   I think you've just got to care a less and take your start and hit it, and not worry if it goes in there or if it doesn't.   You just have to hit a good putt.   I think that's something that, when you start missing a few putts, you start to try to guide the ball in the hole a little bit instead of just letting it go. 

Q.   You guys are going off very, very early tomorrow because of the weather tomorrow? 
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I was going to watch the Mayweather fight tonight, but that might not be a possibility now if we're going off so early.

Q.   Is there a birthday celebration? 
RORY McILROY:   We were supposed to go for dinner and watch the fight somewhere, but it might just be dinner and bed.

Q.   What do you get when you turn 24 years old? 
RORY McILROY:   Actually, the guys got me a Mobi for the iPhone 5, because I'm on my phone a lot, so I'm always losing battery.   So that was a decent little present.   Yeah, just a few bits and pieces.   Few nice things from Caroline and stuff.

Q.   What did Caroline get you? 
RORY McILROY:   Got me this new bracelet and a couple pairs of shoes, a bag sent me a birthday cake, actually.   I got that in my room today, so all good.

Q.   When the greens are like this, does it really not do you any good to practice putting? 
RORY McILROY:   I don't think so.   There are actually some parts of some greens that are quite good out there.   It just depends tomorrow.   But I don't think there is much point going to practice on those because we've got one more day on these and then we have to adjust to something completely different next week.

Q.   Are they faster than they would have been or slower than they would have been? 
RORY McILROY:   They're a little slower, but they just rolled them and rolled them and rolled them to try to get them smooth.   So they look slow, but they run them out pretty well. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT