MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 13, 2013
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   (Inaudible.)
RORY MCILROY:   1‑under through 6, everything was going well. 
I made bogey at 7, which was fine. 
Then on the back nine there I make a good 2‑putt on 10.
Par 11, I just hit wedge for my third shot after a poor drive.   And the wind switched on me, it comes up short in the water and I take 7 there.   And I never recovered from that. 
Same sort of thing happened on 15.   I felt like I hit a good second shot in, the wind gusts back into me, it pitches on the green, but it comes back in the water. 
So just, obviously, the margins are very small on this course and when you get on the wrong side of some of these slopes, you can't help but get a penalty.

Q.   Fair to say a couple of loose shots and a bit of misfortune cost you today?
RORY MCILROY:   Yeah, I think so.   A couple of missed shots here and there and, but, yeah, I felt like I was done in on 11 and 15, but that's the way it goes.

Q.   How disappointed are you not to be challenging here going into the final day?
RORY MCILROY:   It's disappointing, especially after such a good start.   I was only a few off the lead going into 7th hole today and then all of a sudden I play through 7 through 11 in 5‑over par and basically my chances in the tournament are gone. 
So it's very disappointing, I feel like I was playing well and feel like I have been playing well coming in here and it's just a frustrating day here. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
RORY MCILROY:   Not at all.   I felt good coming in here.   I played really well the first couple of days.   I grinded well.   I was hitting the ball nicely. 
Today I started off good.   I started off, I split the first fairway.   The first six holes I played nearly perfectly.   So I can't really fault that. 
I just, the missed drive on 7 and I guess I missed three drives right, 7, 8, and 11, which sort of cost me. 

Q.   Is figuring out this course and the talent that you have and working that talent into making a score around here in four rounds, is that a work in progress?
RORY MCILROY:   Yeah, I mean it is and I think with experience as well.   This course played so different today than it did the first two days.   So much different.   The greens are so much firmer, so much faster. 
They shaved the bank on 15.   Balls were staying up there the last couple of days, mine went back in the water today.   So, I mean, this course just played so much different today than it has.

Q.   And do you actually adopt a process of maybe more restraint next year or maybe more audacity?
RORY MCILROY:   I don't know what I'm going to do.   I feel like I played smart enough.   I hit 3‑wood off the first, 5‑wood off the second.   I mean, I'm playing it the way I know the way you should play it.   I'm not taking too much on, I'm not being too defensive.   I feel like my strategy's right, it's just sometimes if your execution is just that little bit off you pay a big price for it.










END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT