DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 23, 2019
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Starting with a 64, 74 yesterday, 65. What, if anything, did you do last night to get back on track?  
RORY McILROY: Yeah, so it was a bit windier yesterday than it was today. When I turned up to the golf course, I was a little more pleased with the conditions. Sometimes when I hit a lot of shots into the wind, I get a bit too much on my left side on the way down, and my left knee starts to go forward. My arms get too deep in the downswing and then I start missing it left, basically.   
So on the range last night, just trying to really feel like my left knee gets out of the way so my arms can come down in front of me a little bit more and I can start the ball a little bit more online. I just worked on that and thankfully it wasn't as windy today. Still, I missed a couple of iron shots but I hit some good ones on the way in, which was pleasing.   
 Q.  You've hit some remarkable woods this week, as well. Talk us through the one to 7.  
RORY McILROY: Yeah, I got off to a nice start but then yeah, the eagle on 7 was great. I had a similar yardage to yesterday. I had like 255 to the pin. It plays off 10, and 265, and the bunker was about 240 to carry. I knew if I hit a decent 5-wood it should cover that bunker and roll down. It was nice. I hit a couple of nice fairway wood shots this week and being able to take advantage of them with a couple of eagles, it's always nice to keep the round going like that.   
 Q.  When we were talking about what you will do today, we felt as certain as night following day you would rebound exactly as you have. How much pleasure does it give you still being able to respond to a disappointing day like yesterday with what you did today?  
RORY McILROY: I think not just golf, but that's what life is all about. It's learning from what you do and being of a present mind so that you can learn as you go. As I said, I sort of figured out what I did wrong yesterday, and I was able to rectify it somewhat today and get myself back in the tournament.   
 Q.  What would it feel like to top off what's been a brilliant season by being European Tour Champion on The European Tour?  
RORY McILROY: It would be really cool, especially with the guys that are up there around the lead. You've got Rahmbo is playing great. Tommy, obviously Mike is holding steady up there. I've got to play another really good round of golf tomorrow to have a chance, but yeah, it would be awesome to win around here again, and obviously cap off what has been a great 2019.   
 Q.  How do you feel about that?  
RORY McILROY: Good, got off to a hot start again, 5-under through nine, and the back nine played a little tricky, so you know, to play that bogey-free was nice. I had a few chances that I didn't quite convert. I probably should have birdied 15. I would have liked to have birdied the last, but you know, I'll take it. I'm not complaining. It was a good round of golf, and it gives me a good chance going into the final day.   
 Q.  You have lots experience winning around here. How much will that help you tomorrow?  
RORY McILROY: I think it should. But saying that, you've got Tommy and Jon up there obviously and Mike's holding steady at the top. He played wonderfully yesterday. I played with him and seems like he's doing a similar thing today.   
So I'm going to have to go out there and shoot a similar score tomorrow to what I did today to really have a chance. But just really pleased that I got myself back in the golf tournament.   
 Q.  Of all the tournaments you've won, I think you haven't won the same place three times or the same tournament three times. It would be a nice box to tick, wouldn't?  
RORY McILROY: Yeah, that would be a nice box to tick. Yeah, for sure, it is nice to come back to courses that you're familiar with all the time, and that brings its own advantages, I guess, compared to maybe some of the other guys in the field. But yeah, it would be nice. It's been a great year so far and this is my last event of the year. It would be wonderful going into the break to finish on a high.   
 Q.  It was nice to finish with a nice putt today. Obviously you were under pressure for par on the last but a beautiful putt for par.  
RORY McILROY: Thank you, yeah, I wasn't quite comfortable over the 5-wood on the second shot. It was in the semi-rough and I was thinking it could come out with no spin and if it did, the wind wouldn't touch it and it would go long and that's tricky, as well. So I was sort of in two minds of how the ball was going to come out and I didn't really commit to it. Great up-and-down, and it was nice to see the ball slide in the right side and go bogey-free today was nice.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT