SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
March 31, 2013
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  RORY MCILROY:   Apart -- I made a few mistakes, hit 4 balls in the hazards.   Apart from that, it was pretty solid.   You know, I hit the ball reasonably well.   Feel like my short game is sharp and putted it pretty nice.   So, yeah, it wasn't too bad.   Just again if I can limit those sloppy mistakes, I'll be fine.

Q.   How would you assess your week?
RORY MCILROY:   It's been good.   Lot of positives to take from it.   I've learned a few things as well that I can bring into next week and obviously looking ahead to Augusta, too.   It's been a productive week.   Obviously not the finish that I would have wanted, but, you know, there's still a lot of things I can take from it.

Q.   Is this a tournament you can see yourself keep coming back?
RORY MCILROY:   Yeah, it's a great tournament.   Really rail like the golf course here.   You get treated really well.   I or we, whatever, there's a few players that are staying sort of downtown, which is nice, and you can get away from the course for a little bit. 
It's been a fun week and yeah, I'm sure I'll play here again.

Q.   Next week the Texas Open, week before Augusta, is that a good idea?
RORY MCILROY:   I need to go and just -- I'm there to play competitive golf.   If it was a par 3 course, I would go and play it just because that's what I need.   I need competitive golf and I need committing to targets, and it doesn't matter if it's a short course or long course or wide course or whatever.   As long as I have that and I have a scorecard in my hand, that's what I need.

Q.   Rory, what do you take out of this week?
RORY MCILROY:   I take a lot of things.   I think the way I've struck the ball for the most part has been really good.   I think my short game has been sharp.   I think that's been, you know, a very positive sign this week. 
And, again, I just need to -- if I am going to -- everyone hits bad shots.   I just got to hit the bad shots in the right places, that's the thing, and not short side myself and hit them in hazards and sort of give myself a little more margin for error, I guess.

Q.   (Indiscernible)
RORY MCILROY:   It's hard to say.   I think in how I'm striking the ball and how I'm feeling with my swing and short game and stuff, that's fine, but it's a matter of playing.   In the summer you played a lot of golf and you're used to keeping score.   This year, I guess it's only my 13th, 14th competitive round, whatever it is, so I mean -- it's not quite there, but it's getting close.

Q.   Did you commit to enough events?
RORY MCILROY:   I might have played one more in the Middle East, not taken that four-week break after Abu Dhabi.   Apart from that, no, I feel like it's been pretty good.   Obviously you lose in the first round of the Match Play, you play a round and a half at the Honda, you haven't played much golf.   You got to keep into Match Play and play at the Honda, it feels very different.

Q.   Two weeks in Texas, lots of boots?
RORY MCILROY:   No, just a hat.

Q.   Rory, end of your week.   How would you assess it?   Steps forward?   Steps back?   Neutral?   How would you term it?
RORY MCILROY:   Definitely steps forward.   You're coming off the last round at Doral, I was positive about my game and I felt like it was in -- it was coming into good shape and here it's the same.   The only thing is, I just made too many silly mistakes this week.   I hit four shots in the hazards today and ended up shooting 2-under.   You limit those mistakes a little bit and all of a sudden, it's a 67, 66.
You know, I can take a lot out of this week.   It wasn't -- the scores haven't reflected how I've played.

Q.   That's the nature of this course, isn't it?   If something goes slightly wrong, the penalty is perhaps more exaggerated than other setups.
RORY MCILROY:   Yes.   That's very similar to Augusta, when you're slightly off, the mistakes get exaggerated.   I think that's why this course is good for preparation for Augusta, and I think just four more competitive rounds will do me do me a world of good next week.   I'll be in good shape going into the first Major of the year.

Q.   Does it feel like you're cramming a little bit of ahead of a big exam, or do you feel like on course?
RORY MCILROY:   I feel fine.   The two Majors I've won, some of the ones I've played well, sometimes I played the week before, sometimes I've taken a couple weeks off.   I don't think there's any set way to do it.   It just depends on how you feel on those given weeks. 
I played well in Akron last year leading into the PGA and won there.   I played in the U.S. Open at Congressional, I took the week off, you know, St. Andrews, 2010, I took the week off.
The PGA, finished 3rd twice before and played the week before.   It depends.

Q.   As a final thought, if you had to sit down on a jotter and write down your objectives for next week, what you want to achieve from playing in San Antonio, what would you be writing down?
RORY MCILROY:   I'd say course management is a big thing, you know, not short siding yourself, hitting to the fat of the greens when you need to, giving yourself a bit more margin for errors.   Limit mistakes like making bogies from the middle of the fairway.   If I can just keep off my card, then I'll be in great shape.

Q.   Excited about what's coming up?
RORY MCILROY:   I'm excited about my game and excited about how I'm hitting the ball. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT