MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 12, 2013
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   That second shot on 8.   How long was it and what did you have left?  
RORY MCILROY:   275 to the pin.   5‑wood.   Just a nice high draw.   It pitched somewhere in the middle of the green and ran up there.   
   
 Q.   Did you see where it landed?  
RORY MCILROY:   Yeah, I mean, I was surprised to see where it finished.   You're looking to get a chip shot that close, so it was nice to get up there and see that ball pretty close to the hole.  
   
 Q.   You start in rain, you finish in blustery wind, and still shoot a 70.   How?  
RORY MCILROY:   Well, it was good.   I made a lot of good putts for pars on the front nine.   After playing some, I mean I was, I didn't play my best for the first few holes and as I said, the 8th hole really got me going, really kick started me.   
Then I started to hit some really good quality shots.   I took advantage of a couple of easier holes on the back nine, 13, 14.   
So, yeah, I mean it was, I mean anything under par today was going to be a good score and I stayed patient out there when I needed to and it was a good day.  
   
 Q.   Is the putting getting better?  
RORY MCILROY:   The improvement in the putting from last night to today has been a big thing.   I'm committing to my lines a lot better.   I think what pleased me today was just not letting it get away from me.   2‑over through three holes and having par putts on the next four from outside six feet and being able to turn in even par was something I was very proud of today.   
   
 Q.   How about 17?  
RORY MCILROY:   17 was big as well.   I didn't want to give those two shots back that I picked up on 13 and 14, so 17 was a big putt.   
And then the birdie at the last was nice.  
   
 Q.   How do you feel about where you are right now?  
RORY MCILROY:   Yeah, I'm comfortable.   I'm comfortable with my game, I'm happy with this position going into the weekend, and the conditions don't look to be getting much easier out there, so it will be nice to have a nice afternoon and look forward to tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   People have been talking about how the pin placements were really tough.   Like on 1 you put it exactly where you needed to and still 3‑putted.   You putted well also.   How do you explain that?  
RORY MCILROY:   Well, it's just tough.   Especially with the wet‑‑ it was raining at the time, so the green was maybe a touch slower, so it just sort of slowed up a bit on me.   
But there's a lot of Sunday pins out there today, so I don't know where they're going to put them for the next two days.   But yeah, it was tough.   Obviously you need to be really disciplined out there and know that par was a good score on some holes.  
   
 Q.   You have to be extraordinarily pleased with putting, given that they were hard pin placements and you managed to get some back.   
RORY MCILROY:   Yeah, but the thing about this place is you get it on the right side of the hole, it makes it so much easier.   
   
 Q.   Are you searching for anything?  
RORY MCILROY:   Lunch.   I'm hungry.   
(Laughter.)  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT