WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 8, 2013
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Do you feel like you figured some things out there? 
RORY McILROY:   I had a really good range session last night, and felt like I hit the ball quite a lot better, definitely not the way I know I can hit it.   But it was better.   I saw a lot of positives.   I hit some, like I hit a really good 6‑iron into the eighth hole and hit a great 3‑wood off the 10th.   I saw a lot of good signs out there. 

Q.   Good drive on 1? 
RORY McILROY:   Good drive on 1 and good start.   I drove the ball pretty well today.   And for the most part, my irons were okay, and 3‑putted a couple times. 
Apart from that, that's not really what I'm focusing on right now.   It's about the ball‑striking and the ball‑striking, it's getting there.   Days like today were very pleasing because it shows that I'm going in the right direction. 

Q.   How important was today for you, just psychologically and physically?
RORY McILROY:   It's nice, it's the first red number I've shot all year, competitively, anyway.   I've shot a few in practice.   Said to my Mum walking from the 15th to the 16th tee, I was like, oh, my God, I'm in red numbers (laughter).
But you know, it's good.   It's nice to shoot something in the 60s and definitely something to build on over the next couple of days.

Q.   Was the toughest thing of this all that you've been putting in so much work and you feel like you haven't had the scores to reflect?
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, definitely.   You go through these periods in golf where you just have a tough time and things don't click right away.   It's understandable, it would be great if it wasn't like that, and it would make the game a lot easier.   I'm pleased with today. 
Overall I saw some positives out there, and as I said something to build on going into the next two days, and obviously the next few weeks.

Q.   You weren't afraid of jinxing yourself when you said that to your mother?
RORY McILROY:   No, I was like minus three at that point.   If I just thought, stay in red somehow, I'll be okay. 

Q.   Talk a little about Tiger's play, he played really well today?
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, he played nicely.   It's funny, he sort of just plods along and sort of‑‑ he's putted well the last couple of days, which has been a big thing.   But like I saw the scoreboard at the end of the day yesterday, I didn't realize he's 6‑under par.   It didn't look like that but he gets it around, he's just such a good pro.   And today he hit it a lot better.   He hit a lot of really quality iron shots and put the ball in the fairway for the most part and putted really nicely.   He looked really solid. 

Q.   After the tee the shot on 9, you two were talking swing, was it advice or were you just talking swing?
RORY McILROY:   Just talking swing.   He just asked me, what are you trying to do, and I said, look, just trying to get more inside. 

Q.   What did you find on the range last night?
RORY McILROY:   Felt like‑‑ what did I find, I found that everything I'm doing, I'm having to exaggerate.   So if I think I'm taking it inside, I have to take it inside more.   If I'm thinking about coming over the top more, I need to come over the top more.   Everything needs to be exaggerated at the minute and that's why my rehearsals have been so much this way.

Q.   Is that where a lot of the pre‑shot stuff, you go back to last year for instance, you just got over it and go? 
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, exactly.   So that's why I'm having to make all these swings just to really get the feel of it.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT