THE HONDA CLASSIC
February 28, 2013
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Could you just recap your round a little bit for us, please? 
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I mean, wasn't too eventful, two birdies, two bogeys.   Felt okay out there, not great, but‑‑ I mean, it was okay. 

Q.   Is it difficult staying patient and not getting antsy about getting well under par, that sort of thing?
RORY McILROY:   I mean, I guess this golf course, it's the sort of place that you don't really go that far under par anyways, so you've just got to stay patient.   It would have been nice to finish off the round a bit better, but I can come back out tomorrow and hopefully give myself a lot of chances for birdies.

Q.   Conditions a little easier in the afternoon, do you feel like you missed an opportunity? 
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I think if I've been playing well, or playing the way I know I can, there's something in the mid 60s out there.   Hopefully the weather is okay tomorrow and I can go out and try to shoot a good score and put myself in position for the weekend. 

Q.   Is it fair to say that you had the line on most of them, but the speed was just a little off? 
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, just the speed was a little off.   Some, I left short and right in the jaws, and some I hit through the break.   So yeah, I held a couple of nice ones coming in, a good one on 14, and then nice par save on 17, as well. 

Q.   You sound a bit deflated; is that through the 18th, a chance to shoot in the 60s?
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I guess so.   I only had 105 yards in for my third shot and ended up taking a 6.   Wasn't the nicest way to finish.   I saw enough pretty good golf out there to be positive going into the next few days. 

Q.   What are the pros and cons of that? 
RORY McILROY:   I mean, it's a hole where you want to try and make the most of and end the day well.   I just didn't do that.   I hit a decent lay‑up shot and there's a good chance for a birdie and to walk away making bogeys is very nice. 

Q.   I believe Tiger had to take his shoes off to hit out of a water hazard.   Did you have any unusual or difficult shots? 
RORY McILROY:   No.   Thankfully I wasn't too near any water hazards, so hopefully that's the case for the rest of the week.

Q.   You looked a little surprised on some iron distances; are you still getting adjusted to your distance control?
RORY McILROY:   No, not really.   Distance control has actually been one of the easiest things to get adjusted to.   I hit a couple out there today that went a little further than I expected.   I don't know if they just got up in the wind or whatever, but I hit a wedge on the 8th hole, which I felt like it went a long way, pitched ten yards over the pin.   But you know, apart from that, it feels pretty good. 

Q.   Are you still sort of searching for the comfort or predictability factor with shots? 
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I guess as well when you're working on your swing a lot, it's hard to‑‑ I guess it's hard to commit to the shot that you need to play every time.   So if you should play a fade or you know that you should play a fade and you're not comfortable with it, it's hard to do.   You just revert back to your habits and what you're doing anyway. 
So just a bit more work on the swing and try to get a bit more comfortable with that and should be okay.   But I felt like I hit the ball okay today, not as good as I can, but it's getting there. 

Q.   Does it still feel like you're working on the swing during a round? 
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, for sure, definitely, definitely. 

Q.   With that and today's performance, do you feel like you're in position to contend for this weekend? 
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, if I can go out tomorrow and shoot a good one, put myself in position going into the weekend, it will be nice to shoot a good score and go into tomorrow afternoon and do some more work on the swing and practice and get ready for the weekend that way.   But we'll see what happens in the morning. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT