ABU DHABI HSBC GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 17, 2013
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  RORY McILROY:   It was a funny start, first hole, hit on the green and I putted into the bunker but then, yeah, a few tricky pins but I putted well and I got up‑and‑down plenty of times.

Q.   Not the start you were hoping for, what was the problem out there?
RORY McILROY:   Feel like I was a little bit rusty.   Didn't drive the ball particularly well which you sort of need to around here because the rough is very thick. 
Actually hit my irons pretty well but just didn't hole any putts.   So didn't drive it well and didn't putt well, so work on that this afternoon.

Q.   How big of a factor is the new equipment?   Obviously takes time to get used to. 
RORY McILROY:   Of course it does but really happy with the way the ball is in the wind.   Really happy with the irons, the wedge play.   I wasn't very comfortable off the tee but just because I didn't feel like I was swinging it that well.   For the most part I was very happy with everything.   I just have to work on a couple of things.

Q.   All in all the equipment not an issue, nothing needs adjustments?   These things all need fine tuning. 
RORY McILROY:   Of course they do, but I've been working on it leading up to Christmas and then obviously into the new year. 
Yeah, it's a little bit of experimental period and I have four weeks off after this tournament just to work on it.   You know, I feel like if I can just get comfortable and swing it a little better, I can still play some good rounds here. 

Q.   How disappointed are you? 
RORY McILROY:   I'm disappointed.   I felt like I could have played better.   I could have shot a better score.   Yeah, so I mean, just need to go and work this afternoon on the range and hopefully go out there tomorrow and shoot something a little better.

Q.   And what will you be working on?
RORY McILROY:   My driving for a start.   I didn't feel like I drove the ball particularly well.   I didn't hole many putts on the green, so that's an aspect that I need to improve on tomorrow and then hopefully the weekend.

Q.   What did you learn about the new equipment? 
RORY McILROY:   It was good.   I really like how the ball is in the wind, it was really stable.   I felt the irons were great, the wedges. 
As I say, I didn't drive it particularly well, so I just need to go and work on that a little bit.   But overall, it was pretty good, and still getting used to the feel and everything. 
So yeah, I mean, I'm not overly concerned how I played today.   Hopefully I can play a little better tomorrow.

Q.   Is it the driver and the putter that take the big‑‑
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I think, so especially here, you really need to drive it in the fairway to make the score.   So I just need to work on that.   It was more just being committed to it.   It was more, I just feel like I can release this driver a lot more. 

Q.   How do you assess your start in this championship? 
RORY McILROY:   It wasn't quite what I wanted, but it's just a case of going and working a little bit on the range this afternoon and hopefully going out tomorrow and playing a little bit better and making the weekend.   But even though it wasn't what I wanted, I felt like there was a few good signs out there.   So looking forward to doing a bit better.

Q.   What's it down to, rust? 
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, a bit of rust, for sure.   Not playing any competitive golf for eight weeks.   I guess when you're going out with new stuff, you're always going to be a little bit anxious and you're going to hit it close like you've done you on the range and today that wasn't quite the case.   Hopefully I can do that tomorrow. 

Q.   And this is with the breeze down; tough out there?
RORY McILROY:   It's pretty tough, especially if you don't hit the fairway.   The rough is thick and there's a few crosswinds which makes the fairways tough to hit.   It's not a simple test out there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT