BMW MASTERS
October 28, 2012
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Thoughts on the day? 
RORY McILROY:   A little disappointed.   I played well.   I'm very happy with the way I played.   But missed a few opportunities on the front nine to give myself a lot of chances for birdies, and I missed like four or five short putts in a row. 
So just a little bit too little, too late.

Q.   And yet that back nine made it exciting, once again, even down to the last hole?
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, definitely.   That's what I wanted to do.   I wanted to try to make him work for it.   You know, it would have been nice to hole that putt on the last, at least to make him think a little bit.   But it wasn't to be and he played well.   He deserved it.   To go out with the lead and play the way he did and shoot 67 is very impressive.   He was going to be very tough to beat today.

Q.   And for a moment with that approach on the last, shades of Hong Kong somehow; it came mightily close and certainly gave you the opportunity?
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, exactly.   It gave me the opportunity to try and at least make him think about the putt a little bit.   Yeah, you know, that was a pin that was very accessible and you could, if you pitched it in the right spot, you could get it very close.   Just a pity I didn't make the putt. 

Q.   Elaborate on Peter, if you would; you've played with him for three days in a row and he's held himself together remarkably well. 
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, he has.   He's played very, very well.   He's a very solid player from tee‑to‑green and this week I think the difference was he held putts.   He held putts when he needed to.   He held a big putt on 17 today, and made a couple key up‑and‑downs on the back nine, too.   As I said he, played very well and he was going to be very difficult to beat this week.
No rest.   Straight on a plane tonight.   Got an exhibition with Tiger tomorrow, so should be good fun.

Q.   I take it after he's finished in the top 5 in Malaysia, you're nicely in the top 5 here; going to be a bit of fun, isn't it? 
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, it will be good fun.   We'll have a laugh out there.   It should be an enjoyable day and quite exciting.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT