DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 23, 2012
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  SCOTT CROCKETT:   Rory, thanks, as always, for coming i and joining us.   We just had a conversation there, we'll start with how you're feeling, obviously didn't feel too well last night.   How are you feeling now?   
RORY McILROY:   I didn't feel great last night but I felt much better this morning and felt nearly 100 per cent on the way around there on the golf course.   It's just once you get in, I start to get a bit of a sore head.   
I guess it's just us Irish and the skin just not used to this sort of sun.   That's my excuse, anyway.   But I'm feeling okay.   I'll take a couple of painkillers tonight and I'll be okay in the morning.  
SCOTT CROCKETT:   All in all in consideration, a pretty decent effort.  
RORY McILROY:   I played well.   I continued driving the ball really well today and gave myself plenty of opportunities.   Missed a couple of short ones on the front nine for birdies, but apart from that, it was a very solid round of golf and obviously in a good position going into the weekend.  
SCOTT CROCKETT:   I'm sure you couldn't ask for more going into the last two days.  
RORY McILROY:   Not as all.   As I said, I think I could have been a couple shots better out there, but you know, tied for the lead going into the last 36 is a great position.   
   
 Q.   The suggestion abroad was you might have considered this as a lap of honour after taking the chequered flag in Singapore but I detect from the way you're playing at the moment you're really, really keen to get this.   Are you?   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, for sure.   I'm as motivated as I have been the whole way throughout the season.   I'm not going to let it just drop for this week.   I want to finish the season with a bang and I'm going in a good position to do that so far.   
   
 Q.   Is it your history here that contributes to that?  
RORY McILROY:   It could do.   I've got great memories of Dubai, winning my first tournament here and coming close a couple of times on this golf course.   
Yeah, I mean, I love playing out here.   I seem to play very well in the desert.   Yeah, I guess that can help in some way, so hopefully play is similar the next couple of days and we'll see what happens.   
   
 Q.   Sorry if you've mentioned this, you said outside about taking things last night; was that after seeing a doctor or just the usual?   
RORY McILROY:   Just some Paracetamol.   And Caroline made me a glass of lemon juice, squeezed about five lemons into a glass and took that, and then had some sort of vitamin and mineral drink, too.   Made me feel a little better.   
But no, just painkillers and a few sort of, yeah, vitamins and stuff like that.   But yeah, I mean, with the anti‑doping and all that, can't really take much.   
   
 Q.   Where would this stand, this course and on the courses that fit your eye during the season?   
RORY McILROY:   It's up there.   I mentioned yesterday that I feel like I have a big advantage on this course because I can carry some of these bunkers in the middle of the fairway, and some bunkers are at the side of the fairway but if you can get past them, it gives you a big advantage.   
So it fits my eye.   I mean, there's a few holes where just basically all you see is bunkers and all you see is fairway.   I'm not too keen on that.   But as I said I think my length is a big advantage and so far this week I've been able to use that length and take advantage of a few holes that some of the others might not.  
   
 Q.   The scoring is obviously very low in general but some people will say that the final tournament should be played on a tougher course; where would you stand on that?  
RORY McILROY:   I mean, obviously the scoring is low, but you still want to have a balance.   You still want to see guys making birdies.   You don't want people grinding for par out there all the time because it's no fun to watch and it's no fun to play, either.   You want to have chances for birdies and you want to give yourself opportunities.   
This course could be a little bit tougher.   They could bring the rough in a little bit.   The fairways are very generous.   But you know, it's great end to the season.   It's a great place.   Dubai is I think one of our favourite stops of the year and it's a reward.   
It's nice to be here in the Top 60 and it's a reward for a lot of the guys.   I think it's a course that should be enjoyable to play.   
   
 Q.   You mentioned it yesterday; how do you feel about your prospective duel with Luke Donald tomorrow?  
RORY McILROY:   It's going to be good, both of us of up there going into the last couple days.   I think I'll play with Marc Warren tomorrow.   It's good to see both of us up there and we are both obviously playing well at the minute, and it would be great if we were able to go up against each other coming down the back nine on Sunday.   
SCOTT CROCKETT:   Rory, thanks, as always.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT