BMW MASTERS
October 27, 2012
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  RORY McILROY:   It was pretty good.   The conditions were a little trickier than the first couple of days.   I think that's why the scoring wasn't quite as good as it has been.   But you know, I still kept myself in the tournament, shot a round in the 60s.   Struggled a bit early on but once I got going, felt like it was okay.   So pretty pleased going into the last day.   
   
 Q.   Players earlier were saying it was a tough setup of the course and with the wind, as well, you had to think a bit out there?  
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, you did.   They mixed a few of the tees around and a couple tricky pin positions.   Obviously the wind was up a little bit but it was from a different direction, so made a lot of the holes play a lot differently than they had done the previous two days.   Yeah, you had to think about it a little bit more out there.  
   
 Q.   And tell us about tomorrow.   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I mean, just going to try to do the same thing.   One behind and in a great position.   Try to go out and shoot the best score possible and see what happens.   
As long as you're up there near the lead, it's a good position to be in.   So whether I'm one ahead or one behind or level, I can go out there tomorrow and give it my all and hopefully that's good enough.   
   
 Q.   Is there any difference being in that final group like this with the adulation in China as it is in other big tournaments around the world?   
RORY McILROY:   A little bit.   I mean, I think the majority of people are following our group and following the last group, so you can play in a bit of a better atmosphere.   So yeah, it's always nice to go out in the final group the last day.   
   
 Q.   And you're hearing a fair number of things from the crowd and all around, because that's part and parcel, isn't it?   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, but not much different than what we do week‑in and week‑out.   There's obviously going to be people clicking their cameras.   I'd rather people just click away and it doesn't really bother me too much.   You sort of get used to it.  
   
 Q.   Embrace it and go with it?   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, exactly.   There's no point in trying to tell everyone to stop.   It's hard to sort of do that, so I don't mind if they are clicking their cameras because at least you have a constant sort of buzz going on.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT