BMW MASTERS
October 25, 2012
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  STEVE TODD:   Rory, many thanks for joining us.   You obviously won here last year, and a round of 67.   You've made a good start here today, as well.  
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, it was good.   It was relatively benign conditions out there.   So, you know, the course was there for the taking.   Obviously Jamie shot 10‑under which is a phenomenal score, and I was just trying to keep somewhere within touching distance.   
Yeah, happy with how I played today and in a good position going into tomorrow.   
STEVE TODD:   Obviously we got The Ryder Cup Team back together the other day, playing as individuals this week but nice to see so many people playing well, including the captain himself.  
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I noticed that.   I noticed Ollie's name on the board which was nice to see.   A few weeks ago, 12 individuals came together as part of the team, and now we're back playing and trying to beat one another.   
It's been good to see the guys and sort of talk about it a little bit more and hear what they have been up to for the couple weeks since.   But we are all trying to beat each other out there again.   
STEVE TODD:   Just some general comments about your round; any particular holes stand out there for you?   And obviously a nice way to finish.  
RORY McILROY:   Definitely a nice way to finish.   Todd I dropped a shot on 14 and then to get it straight back on 15 was nice.   Then I hit probably my best drive and my best iron shot of the day into the last, so always nice to finish like that.   
STEVE TODD:   What was the yardage and club?   
RORY McILROY:   9‑iron from 144 yards.   
   
 Q.   How was your energy level out there?  
RORY McILROY:   Energy level was fine.   I started to get a bit of a headache on the back nine.   I don't know, obviously factories and stuff around here, probably not breathing in the cleanest air.   So yeah, I've got a little bit of a headache right now, but you know, good night's sleep, should be okay tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   It's only been one round but compared to when you played in Turkey, seems like comparing chalk and cheese; do you feel very much more zoned in?   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, of course.   I basically took the week off in Turkey.   I didn't touch a club until the day of the tournament.   Yeah, I wouldn't read too much into that.   
But I prepared well last week.   Did a lot of great work with Michael and just trying to bring what I worked on last week to here.   It's still feeling a bit uncomfortable at times, but it's definitely a lot better than it was.  
   
 Q.   Certainly had your tournament face back on today?  
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, for sure, definitely.   
   
 Q.   What do you think about this new BMW tournament here in Shanghai?   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, it's great.   I think it's fantastic that BMW has got involved and got on board.   Obviously they had the BMW tournament in Thomson for a few years, and to bring it here, it's great; to assemble so many great players; it's a fantastic tournament at the end of the year, and I think all of the guys enjoy it.   
   
 Q.   On the issue of your alignment, were there any times out on the course where you didn't feel comfortable over the ball, and how did you handle that?   Did you step off?   How do you get yourself into feeling good about the shot?  
RORY McILROY:   (Nodding).   Yeah, there's sometimes you know, I know when I'm standing square, even though sometimes it might feel awkward and you just have to go and hit it.   
Yeah, of course, there's times out there where you're not feeling very comfortable over a shot but you know what you're doing is the right thing.   Sometimes it works and sometimes it doesn't, and you've just got to reassess.   
But for the most part, it felt pretty comfortable.   There's a few shots out there that I was standing over and wasn't quite sure of.   But as the week goes on and the more balls I hit, that will start to sort of work itself out.   
   
 Q.   Would you like to see yourself winning the trophy here and see your girlfriend winning the trophy on the WTA tournament?   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, of course.   You know, for me personally it would be great to defend‑‑ well, it's a new tournament, but win here like I did last year.   And obviously Caroline has been playing well the last few weeks, won two of her last three tournaments, and yeah, actually after here I'm going to see her in Europe for her last tournament of the year.   It would be great to see her pick up her third title of the year and finish the year off well.   
   
 Q.   Just talking about title wins; when you break through, won in Dubai and then won in Quail Hollow and comparing that with what Jamie did at Portrush this year, what does that do to your confidence when you break through and get a first tournament win?  
RORY McILROY:   It gives you a lot of confidence because I felt like I was knocking on the door for quite a while before Dubai.   I lost in a playoff in Hong Kong, finished a shot out of the playoff in South Africa; lost the playoff in Switzerland.   So I had a few close calls.   
You know, it's more relief.   You get that first one out of the way and you can concentrate on trying to get more.   
   
 Q.   And the doors that it opens for you, too?   
RORY McILROY:   It does.   And you get that winning feeling and you know what it feels like and you sort of feel like you know what you need to do to win.   And it's a habit; the more you win, the more you get comfortable with it and the more you get used to it.   
I've sort of discovered that and felt that over the past couple years.   
STEVE TODD:   Thanks for joining us, Rory.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT