TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP BY COCA-COLA
September 21, 2012
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   I have to ask you news from home.   You put your house in Northern Ireland up for sale today.   Is there any significance in that? 
RORY McILROY:   Not really.   Only thing is (Indiscernible) maybe.   You know, just from a financial point of view, it just didn't make sense to keep it.   Obviously I've put a lot into it, but you know, it just made it easy to sell it because I'm not there so much.

Q.   It's not like a family guy like Lee Westwood is moving his whole operation over here and starting again over here.   You're sort of a wandering nomad at the moment? 
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, exactly.   I'm sort of traveling all over the world, and never really spend too much time anywhere, so I don't have a full‑time base over here, and I don't think I will have one for a while.   When I go back home to Northern Ireland, I'll spend time with my mom and dad, and hope they have a room for me there.

Q.   And you're keeping your ties with your homeland? 
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, of course.   I try to get home as much as possible these days.   That's not very often, but, yeah, of course.

Q.   2‑under par, 68 today, 3‑under par headed into the final 36.   Had a little struggle with the driver, but you're in pretty good position?
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I am.   I think I'm going to be in a good position going into the weekend.   (Indiscernible) you're hitting in, and you're used to fairways that are 30, 35 yards wide, and you get fairways here that are 20, 24 yards wide max.

Q.   It looked like you and Phil were kind of struggling and the eagle at 15 kicked it in for you? 
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, that got me going a little bit, of especially after bogeying 14.   To come back to eagle 15 was good for me.

Q.   As a player that comes into this event with control of his destiny, did you play the final 36 with a different game plan? 
RORY McILROY:   No, just go out and do the same thing.   Try to play well.   Give myself plenty of opportunities.   Hit fairways and get on the greens.   That's all I can think about.

Q.   It looked like you settled yourself down.   You must be happy going in in the position you're in? 
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I am.   I just said got going on the first five holes and able to convert the birdie putt on 6.   So overall it was steadier.   Had a lot of pars, one bogey and an eagle.   You know, it was good.   Actually could have been a couple of shots better, but I feel like I'm in a good position for the weekend.

Q.   One of those up‑and‑downs was just sensational?
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I was just trying to get two putts for the bogey and get out of there.

Q.   Is this the kind of course where you have to reign in a little bit your natural aggressive instinct? 
RORY McILROY:   Well, a little bit.   The fairways are long holes.   You're trying to hit fairways whether it's a 20‑yard drive or a 35 yard drive.   So it's a little more challenging off the tee this week, for sure. 

Q.   Six holes to go.   You like your position.   What is the mindset going into the weekend? 
RORY McILROY:   Just trying to do the same thing.   Trying to hit a few more fairways.   Trying to find the greens and give myself as many opportunities as possible.   If I do that, I won't be too far off.

Q.   One final question, no need for alarm bells to bring in Northern Ireland? 
RORY McILROY:   No, I mean, I spend about two weeks a year back home these days.   So it just wasn't‑‑ it financially didn't make sense to keep it, especially with the wind and upkeep and everything so.   I put it on the market.   It's gotten quite a lot of attention the last couple of days, so hopefully someone wants to buy it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT