TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP BY COCA-COLA
September 23, 2012
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  RORY McILROY:   I hit three fairways today.   Two of the fairways I hit them and birdied them.   If I had hit more fairways, it might have been a different story.   But Brandt has played some phenomenal golf out there.   He went in with the lead, and to play the sort of golf he has today was a great effort, and certainly well deserved.  
   
 Q.   I know you're disappointed, but still it's a second place finish in the FedExCup.   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, first time here to the TOUR Championship.   Yeah, obviously, I had the best position coming in here and didn't quite play the way I wanted to, so I can't be that disappointed.   I've had a great few weeks.   But it would have been nice to have given myself a bit more of a chance today.  
   
 Q.   Saw you looking at a few leaderboards has the round progressed.   Did you know you were standing?   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I was just trying to consolidate second place.   I was trying to make sure of that.   So I sort of knew.   I didn't know if I needed that putt on the last or not to finish second in the standings, but I made it anyway.  
   
 Q.   I'll say this, you grounded out the entire day on a difficult day.   I've had a great time watching you the last month and Ryder Cup coming up here.   What a huge week ahead?  
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, just one week after another.   It will be great.   I'm going to have a nice day off tomorrow.   Just not do anything.   Meet up with the rest of the team and then get the focus on the Ryder Cup again.   It should be a great week.  
   
 Q.   It was a tough, blustery day out there and the pressure of the TOUR Championship, and ultimately the FedExCup.   How would you assess your play?   
RORY McILROY:   Not very good from the tee.   You need to hit fairways around here and I didn't.   I hit three fairways all day.   Two fairways I made birdie from, so that was the story of my day.   I just didn't hit fairways.   When you try to hit out of the rough on to these greens, it's very difficult.  
   
 Q.   You're not going to walk out of this with the FedExCup trophy.   How disappointing is that?   
RORY McILROY:   It is disappointing.   I feel like the last month of golf has been obviously very good, starting with the PGA.   It's just in these playoffs, you've got to play well in nearly every event.   I've played well in a couple of them.   Well, I played well.   I finished in the Top 10 here, but it wasn't enough.  
   
 Q.   Do you like the way the formula is for the FedExCup?   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, of course.   You've got to play well.   You've got to earn that trophy.   Brandt has done a phenomenal job out there today.   He's played the best out of anyone all week, and he deserve it's.  
   
 Q.   Finally now we head to Chicago, Medinah for the Ryder Cup.   How much are you looking forward to that?   Especially considering how great you've been playing the last month and a half?   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I'm looking forward to meeting up with all the guys.   Just to get back into that team atmosphere and team spirit.   It should be good fun.   I'm just going to go there and enjoy it and try and help team Europe out as much as I can.  
   
 Q.   Tough day at the office, wasn't it, Rory?   
RORY McILROY:   It was, yeah, it was tough.   I made it tough for myself.   Just didn't hit fairways.   You've got to hit fairways.   When the rough is as tough as this and the greens are as firm as this.   I hit three fairways all day.   Only two of those I made birdie from.   So that was the story of my day.   Yeah, you know, it was tough out there.   Even if I had played well, I'm not sure if I would have been able to catch Brandt.   He played great golf.  
   
 Q.   Any reason for the dip in form given the extraordinary run of rounds in the 60s you've had coming into this final round?   
RORY McILROY:   No, again, just as I said, just not hitting fairways.   You really‑‑ other courses you can get away with it.   But really I just didn't hit enough of them today.  
   
 Q.   Any sense of injustice given that you've dominated this playoffs.   You've won two out of the four tournaments?   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, it's just the nature of them, the way it is.   I'm not going to criticize the format.   You've got to play well every week.   I knew if I came in here and won the tournament, that I'd win the whole thing, and that was the goal, and it didn't happen.   That was the goal for Brandt as well.   He was Top 5 coming in here, and he knew if he won, he'd win the whole thing.   He did.   He knew what he needed to do, and he did it great.  
   
 Q.   Enough left into the tank for next week for the Ryder Cup?   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I think it will pull me through for that one.   Going to take a day off tomorrow, which will be nice.   I'll get back out and meet up with the team.   I'm just going to really enjoy it.   It's going to be a good week.  
   
 Q.   It's going to be a fantastic week.   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I'm looking forward to it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT