TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP BY COCA-COLA
September 22, 2012
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Thoughts about tomorrow?   
RORY McILROY:   It's, it's going to be one of the most exciting Sundays of the year.   There are a few guys still in it with a chance to win the FedExCup to win this tournament.   So looking forward to it.   Great to be in the mix.   Only three back, so I'm excited about the prospect of a very exciting finish tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   First time in this situation, you've been in a lost pressure situations.   Do you think it will be different tomorrow or even tomorrow with everything on the line tomorrow?   
RORY McILROY:   No, this is nothing compared to going into the final round of a major with the lead.   It's completely different.   So, you know, I'm just going to treat it like any other event.   I'm 3‑back, go out there, give it my best and see what happens.  
   
 Q.   Could you go 18 holes today without thinking once about Ryder Cup?   
RORY McILROY:   No, it's funny.   People are saying don't do that at Medinah next week or if I hole a putt or whatever, so it's hard not to think about it.   
It's going to be exciting.   It's going to be a great week.   It's going to be very different for me.   I'm not used to anyone sort of rooting against me, so it's going to be a little different.   But I'm looking forward to it.   It should be great.  
   
 Q.   Did you talk about the Ryder Cup?   
RORY McILROY:   Not particularly.   I think he's going to be there some next week as some part of the U.S. Team, so I'm not sure he wants to speak to me about it or not.  
   
 Q.   You've played three rounds now around the course.   What do you think you need to shoot tomorrow?   Are you not really thinking about that?   
RORY McILROY:   I think if I shoot 65, 64, I'll have a good chance.   Yeah, I mean, if I get it to 10‑under par, I think that could be a good target.  
   
 Q.   Have you played any par‑3, 18 holes before you came to the states?   What are your thoughts on that?   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, we played one at the Forest of Arden.   It was the British Master.   I played it when I was 16, British Masters in 205.   So I have played par‑3s to finish.   I think par‑3s to finish are okay.   I think par‑3s to start are a little more difficult.   Starting on the par‑3 can always be a little tricky.   I think finishing one, you're into the round already, so it's not too bad.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible) did you expect it was going to be as hot?   
RORY McILROY:   They're not up at the top of the standings for nothing.   They're playing well.   They've played well the last few weeks.   So, yeah, I knew coming in here if I won, I'd win everything, and that's still my attitude going into tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   It's been your attitude since Firestone.   Is this as calm as you've been on the golf course for a long period of time?   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, probably.   Just not getting too down on myself when I make a bogey.   Not getting too excited when I make a birdie or an eagle.   I'm just trying to keep it level out there.   It's definitely helped.  
   
 Q.   I was talking to Michael out there, and he said it was a case of just go out and play golf.   It sounds like such a simple thing to do, but it took a long time to do it.   Has it been that easy a transition?   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, just go out there and play, not think about anything.   You go play the first hole, and you see how you do there.   Then you play the second, and you see how you do there.   It's all you're really doing.   That's the way I feel like I have been playing for the last few weeks.  
   
 Q.   Can you go into a Ryder Cup like that?   Is it possible to go into that?   
RORY McILROY:   No, I think it's a little different because you're not‑‑ it's a different pressure.   You're not just playing the course.   You're playing everyone else.   I think you sort of have to approach it‑‑ I think next week it's hard to stay very level because a birdie means so much, and a bogey if you lose a hole means so much, and there is so much fluctuation going on.   I think it's very hard to keep an even keel for a week like next week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT