TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP BY COCA-COLA
September 21, 2012
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Obviously you're in position for the weekend.   How much are you thinking about your standing in the FedExCup versus your standing in this golf tournament?   
RORY McILROY:   I think first and foremost, I just have to try to think of my standing in this golf tournament, not really think about anything else.   If it comes down to it on Sunday where I need to really know what I have to do for the last few holes, then of course if I have a decision to make between protecting my lead in the FedExCup or trying to win the golf tournament, I think I know what I'm going to choose.   
But we just have to play until we reach that point, and at the minute, I'm just concentrating on trying to play as well as I can.  
   
 Q.   The last two days have you found yourself thinking about the other one, the FedExCup rather than the tournament every now and then?   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, every now and then, of course.   I think it's natural.   There is so much emphasis on it and everything.   But first and foremost you've really got to concentrate on trying to stay in the moment and just think about this tournament.   
I'm only four shots back, five, six shots, five shots, whatever.   So I've still got a good chance going into the weekend.  
   
 Q.   Curious with this being your first TOUR Championship compared to what the European Tour provided with the Race to Dubai.   How did it compare in the last event of the Race to Dubai to this in two days?   
RORY McILROY:   I was sort of in a similar position in '09 battling Lee Westwood.   I went in with not much of a lead, maybe like a 100,000 Euros up.   But he ended up winning the tournament, and I finished third and he won.   
It was a similar sort of position here.   There is a little more to play for, but it's been great.   It's just nice to be a part of those guys, these five guys that sort of control their own destiny.  
   
 Q.   Can you tell us a little about your round today, please?   
RORY McILROY:   I got off to a shaky start.   Made three really big par saves on the first five holes, made a great up‑and‑down on 1, on 4, and on 5 to keep myself even par for the day.   And I got a chance for birdie on 6 and made it.   After that, I was just very solid.   I made like seven pars in a row, and then I bogeyed 14, eagled 15, and parred my way in.   So it was pretty solid golf after that, but a bit of a shaky start.  
   
 Q.   The shot on 4 was outstanding.   Can you walk us through that?   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I got a flier out of the rough, and I was just trying to get the‑‑ I was like if this doesn't come off right, at least hit it hard enough that you get it on the Green and leave yourself a 40‑footer for par.   But the way I hit it, it just came off perfectly, and obviously left myself like six feet for par, so it was as good as I could have done.   Especially following up, I made a really good par save on the first as well, so those are probably two of the biggest and best par saves I've made in a while.  
   
 Q.   Since the PGA, the crowds have really been with you at every event and again here today.   Are you able to feed off of that?   What do you attribute that to?   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I mean, for sure.   Every time that you walk on to the green and you get caught on the green, it gives you a little bit of a lift.   So, it's nice.   I think just being successful and winning and people seeing me on TV, I don't know, it seems like a lot of people like to root for me.   It's nice to have that support.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT