DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 2, 2012
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JOHN BUSH:   We'd like to welcome Rory McIlroy into the interview room after a 4‑under par 6 today.   Nice round for you.   A little bit better for Louis today.   Just comment on the day as a whole. 
RORY McILROY:   Yeah.   You know, you think going out with a one‑shot lead and shooting 67, shooting 4‑under par, that you're going to be in‑‑ might still be in the lead going into the last day.   But Louis put on a display out there for a few holes, reeling off seven birdies in a row.   I was delighted when I got the honor back on the 12th tee (laughter), but it was great to watch.   Louis is the sort of player that can do that.   He's very explosive, and he didn't really put a foot wrong today.   Very impressive round by him and very happy with my round, and very happy that I am still in touching distance going into tomorrow. 

Q.   Missing that eagle on 2, do you think that's a momentum changer in the round?
RORY McILROY:   No, I think it's too early to call that a momentum changer.   Obviously that was a great shot in and I would have loved taken advantage of it, but I still viewed it as a great start, 2‑under through 2, just what I wanted to do.   I didn't think that was a momentum stopper at all.

Q.   Is there any type of shock value to see you're six behind on the 10th and see you're playing reasonably well?
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, you know, you can get into‑‑ obviously you're six behind, and you can try and start pushing, but I was still in second place, so I thought, stay patient.   This sort of‑‑ even though this is one tournament, you're sort of viewing these Playoffs as a whole, and you stay in second place and you're in great position going into next week and so on. 
But as I said, I stayed patient, I made a few birdies on the way in, and very happy only to be three behind going into tomorrow.

Q.   The swing on 11 and the tee shot on 12 and the shot that followed were really attacking aggressive type swings.   Just good timing for it?
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I think the tee shot on the‑‑ the birdie on 11 sort of sparked things, and I hit a couple great shots into 12, great tee shot off 13, great tee shot on 14.   So that sparked me to life a little bit.   If you're talking about momentum in a round, I think 11 definitely gave me some momentum. 

Q.   We heard guys say that they don't really pay attention to the other guy in a group, but when a guy is that hot, how can you not, and what are sort of the things that you think about when you're watching that kind of play? 
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, as you said, it's hard not to look at the guy beside you making all these birdies and feel like you're going backwards.   But as I said, just stay patient and concentrate on yourself.   I thought if I went out and shot another solid score in the mid 60s like I did, I'd be in a good position going into tomorrow, and I still feel like I am in a good position, only three back.   I've come from further behind before.   It's going to be an interesting day tomorrow. 

Q.   What did you say to him walking to the 12th tee?
RORY McILROY:   I said finally I got the honor.   I said, I finally feel like I've got some arms again.   But yeah, it was good.   Look, I've played with Louis a lot, and I really enjoy his company on and off the golf course.   He's a great guy, and looking forward to tomorrow.   Should be good. 
JOHN BUSH:   Rory, thank you, sir. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT