BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 8, 2012
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You came out strong on the back nine and you're right there.   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I did.   I'm delighted just to be one back going into tomorrow because the display of golf I put on out there from tee to green was not very good.   I hung in there and made some putts on the back nine and was able to get myself back in the tournament.  
   
 Q.   You have to feel good, though; this was your bad day and you got it out of the way.   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, for sure.   I didn't really do anything that well.   I didn't strike the ball great, I was missing everything right, I was missing my irons right.   Just got a few good up‑and‑downs saved me on the back nine and then a good finish.   
As I said, only one back going into tomorrow, it's a great position.  
   
 Q.   Last week you were three back going into the final round, now just one back, so obviously very confident?  
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, for sure.   Looking forward to tomorrow.   Going to go and do a bit of work on the range here, try and straighten it out a little bit.   But yeah, excited to have another chance to win tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
RORY McILROY:   Wasn't great at all to be honest.   I hit the ball awfully from tee to green.   Just fortunate to get a few putts on the back nine to save par and had a good finish.   Going to go to the range and work on a few things and straighten them out, but as you said, feel like I turned a 76 into a 69, so I'm in great position.   Going to go work on it tonight and hope to hit it better tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   The things you're going to work on, are they big things or tiny little things you need to tighten up?  
RORY McILROY:   Just tiny little things.   I was missing everything to the right out there.   Just not a lot of confidence in releasing the club, so going to go work on that a little bit, hit a few draws on the range and straighten it out.  
   
 Q.   You turned what could have been a bad number into a good one and you're still in this tournament.   What mentality do you have to have on a very soft golf course with some very powerful players on the leaderboard?  
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I've got to go out there and play as well as I can.   No sense in looking at the other guys on the leaderboard.   I was three back going into last week, I'm one back going into this week, so I'm in a great position and excited about tomorrow.   
  
             Q. A bit of a slow start but now you're a shot back.   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, it wasn't the greatest ball‑striking round out there that I've ever had, but somehow managed to scrape it around in 69 and still in with a chance.   As badly as I did hit it out there, I'm still happy with my position going into tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Yesterday you eagled 9, today you bogeyed it.   What happened?  
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, not a great tee shot, I got lucky, it stayed in the fairway, and then an even worse second and left myself in an awkward spot with my third and then an awkward spot with my fourth and missed a little putt for par.   Obviously not a great hole, but it was great the way I bounced back with a birdie on 10.  
   
 Q.   Phil had 10 birdies today.   Seems like there's a lot of birdies out there on the course.   Do you have to play near perfect tomorrow?  
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I'm only one back.   Phil obviously played well today.   You know, he might go out there and shoot the same number again tomorrow, but I just have to concentrate on myself and try and do the best that I can.  
   
 Q.   What has your impression been of Crooked Stick?  
RORY McILROY:   It's been phenomenal.   I wish for everyone that the weather had cooperated a little bit better and the conditions would have been a little firmer, but it's been great.   You know, the crowds have been fantastic.   I think they've really enjoyed the golf.   Hopefully another day of sunshine tomorrow and it'll be a great way to cap off the tournament.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT