BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 7, 2012
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Do you want to just talk about your round and some of the highlights?  
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, it wasn't as good a day as yesterday.   I didn't hit the ball quite as well, but scored well and did enough to go out there and shoot another good number and set myself up in a good position going into the weekend.   You know, as I said, I could have hit the ball a little better from tee to green, but still got it around in 4‑under, so pretty happy.   
   
 Q.   What do you make of a tournament where it's pretty obvious you have to shoot pretty low every day?   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, that's just the way it is, soft conditions, not much wind out there.   Guys out there are that good.   You shoot a couple of decent rounds, you're just going to get lapped.   You know you've got to go out there and make birdies, and I suppose that's just your mindset from the start.   That's just the way it is, and you have to go out there and try to do that.   
   
 Q.   You had a couple lies around the greens that you missed.   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, they're not great.   Seems like every green I short sided myself, which didn't help.   Yeah, the rough is long out there, and it's thick.   Especially if you're missing greens where people have walked and it's growing one way, it makes it quite tricky.   The way to avoid that is just hit the green.  
   
 Q.   What did you hit in on No.6?  
RORY McILROY:   6 was a 7‑iron.   
   
 Q.   Have you figured out what those little wooden things are doing next to the green?   Have you figured out their purpose there?  
RORY McILROY:   No.   I saw Zach was in trouble, I think.   Just to look good, I suppose.   I'm not sure if they do that, either.   
   
 Q.   After playing this much golf, is it better to have a tournament where you go at it and make a lot of birdies, or would it be better if you had to grind out more?   
RORY McILROY:   I don't think it really makes a difference.   The last couple weeks for sure you've had to go out there and make as many birdies as you could.   But no, I mean, every tournament is different, and that's the way it is this week.   This week it's soft, and you're going to have to go out there and shoot low scores.   That's just the way it is.   East Lake might be different, but this week you get what you're getting, and you've just got to play with it.  
   
 Q.   Playing with Tiger, are you just into your own game or are you watching what he's doing and how he's doing it and trying to learn?  
RORY McILROY:   No, I mean, I'm concentrating on my own game.   Of course I'm watching him hit his shots, as well.   But I mean, for the most part I'm just trying to shoot the best score possible out there that I can, and that's all I'm really trying to do.   
   
 Q.   How would you describe the way you are right now as a golfer when you shoot a low round and don't have your A game?  
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, it's good.   I didn't play as well as I did yesterday but was able to get it around.   It seemed like every time I missed the green, I missed it in the wrong spot and left myself difficult chips.   But I took advantage of the opportunities that I did give myself.   And I just think I'm putting so well recently that any time I do get a look on the green for birdie, I'm sort of making those, and that's making up for some of it.   
   
 Q.   Along the lines of putting, why do you think you are putting so well right now?  
RORY McILROY:   I'm just seeing the lines.   I've got my speed pretty good on the greens.   You know, when you keep seeing putts go in, you obviously build up confidence, and I feel like I'm pretty high on confidence right now.  
   
 Q.   Have you played as good a golf in as long a stretch and you've played in quite some time?  
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I think this time last year I played a little bit of golf in Europe and Asia, and then the start of this year, as well.   I finished outside the top 5 twice in 15 starts, so I had a pretty consistent run then.   But it's nice to be able to give myself a chance to win each week.   I feel like I'm getting used to that and just want to capitalize on that and win as many as I can.   
   
 Q.   How would you compare your confidence level to other stretches of excellence like this one?   
RORY McILROY:   It's pretty similar.   It's pretty similar.   You know, I've always felt that confidence was a big part of my game.   When I'm high on confidence, I play well, and when I don't have much, I don't play so well.   So having a stretch like this where I'm high on confidence really helps.   This probably is the most confident I've been in a long time.   
   
 Q.   How would you describe your round today?   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I mean, I put myself in a great position going into the weekend.   The round wasn't quite as good as it was yesterday.   I didn't hit the ball quite as well.   But I still managed to get around in 4‑under par.   I'm very pleased about that.   I just need to try and find a little more consistency.   It wasn't that bad out there, but just a couple of missed tee shots and a couple of missed iron shots.  
   
 Q.   It looked like you and Tiger were both really grinding it out out there.   
RORY McILROY:   No, there was a few struggles going on.   I think we needed to concentrate a little bit more.   Things were sort of coming easy yesterday.   We needed to concentrate out there and try and shoot the best score possible, and we obviously both did that.   
   
 Q.   You may be playing together again tomorrow.   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, that would be great.   It always brings a bit of excitement, a bit of a buzz playing with him.   We'll see what happens, but if I am playing with him, I'm looking forward to it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT