BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 6, 2012
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Rory, you want to just talk about your round today?  
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, it was great.   You know, with the soft conditions you could really shoot a number out there, and I did.   I took advantage of hitting the ball really well, hitting it in the fairway, which I need to do, and also hitting it long, and gave myself a lot of opportunities.   I missed a few, but was able to make the most of them.   
Great start to the tournament.   
   
 Q.   You and Tiger really seem to enjoy playing together.   What are you guys talking about when you're out there?  
RORY McILROY:   Anything, everything, whatever.   I just‑‑ normal stuff, about this, about that.   I've always enjoyed playing with Tiger, and every time that we're paired up we seem to have a good time.   The only time that I do get for ripping him, I'm obviously always looking forward to it.  
   
 Q.   First time I think might have been at Chevron a couple years ago.   Was the first time a little nerve wracking?  
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, of course.   You're watching a guy your whole life, you're growing up watching him do all these unbelievable things on TV, and then you're stuck in there with him.   Yeah, of course, Chevron was the first time I got to play with him, and I was a little nervous.   I still held my own.   I shot a couple under.  
But the more I've played with him, obviously the more comfortable I've been, and I think that's showed the last few weeks.   
   
 Q.   Did you give any thought at all to taking this week off?   You could have and still remained in the top 5.   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I could have, but I think it's a huge advantage going into East Lake with the No.1 spot because if you‑‑ if one or the other guys in the top 5 win, all you have to do is finish in the top 10 and you've won the FedExCup.   It's still an important week to try and stay on top and put myself in the best possible position going into the TOUR Championship.   
   
 Q.   Incredible day of ball‑striking.   How did you feel about it?  
RORY McILROY:   It was great.   I felt like my iron play was some of the best it's been all year, basically in my whole life.   I was giving myself a lot of opportunities to attack the pins from the fairways, as well.   I just have to try and keep doing that for the next three days.  
   
 Q.   How did you keep your energy up?   Obviously it was a great run on Monday.   That was less than 72 hours ago.   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I took Tuesday completely off.   I came up here and just registered and did all the normal stuff that you do but didn't hit any balls, didn't do anything, went to the gym, and then played the pro‑am yesterday.   I didn't really have any time to celebrate or anything like that, just get myself focused and ready for this event.   
   
 Q.   You're playing with Tiger and there's 50,000 people out there watching you guys.   Does that help you stay focused?  
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, it definitely gives you a little bit more of a lift, especially coming off a win and maybe being a little flat.   You're focused from the get‑go, and you want to go out and shoot a good number, and I was able to do that today.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT