DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
August 31, 2012
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Let's talk about your day.   Looking at the numbers, 4 of 14 fairways hit, 12 of 18 greens.   Not great, but you finished 6‑under.   That's pretty good.   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, it is.   I definitely didn't drive the ball the way I wanted to.   I want to try and hit more fairways the next few days because if I want to have a chance to win this thing, I'm going to have to put the ball in the fairway.   I drove it great last week at Bethpage and didn't putt so well, but this week it seems like I didn't drive it so good today but putted well.   
If I just hit a few more fairways tomorrow, then hopefully that'll be the key to another good round.  
   
 Q.   What an approach shot at No.9, in the rough, the ball is above your feet.   Did that surprise you how close that finished up?  
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, it did.   I knew it was going to fly.   It was straight back into the wind.   I hit a 7‑iron from 200 something yards and was just trying to get it anywhere on the middle of the green, and it came out perfect.  
   
 Q.   Now you have a great shot tomorrow morning.   The course is going to be perfect.   I think that's a nice draw for you.   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I think so.   I think it was supposed to get a little windier today than it did, so it was nice not to get the full effect of that wind.   Yeah, tomorrow the greens will be perfect, nice conditions, so hopefully go out there and shoot another good score.  
  
 Q.   The wind was difficult to gauge, was it?  
RORY McILROY:   It was.   It was a little difficult to gauge.   I think it swirls a lot in these trees, and then there's some tee shots where you're back in a chute and you can't feel it at all on the tee, but then once it gets out there 100 yards, the wind starts to hit it.   You know, it's tricky in spots, but I think I managed the wind pretty well today.   Hopefully tomorrow morning it'll be nice to go out and have some good conditions and attack the golf course again.  
   
 Q.   How gettable was it out there?  
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I mean, there was good scores out there, obviously.   You've got Noh shot 9‑under, Chris Kirk is 8‑under, there's a couple 7‑unders, me at 6.   So it was‑‑ there's definitely scores out there.  
   
 Q.   Going out tomorrow morning, are you coming into tomorrow thinking if I shot 6‑under in the afternoon when the conditions were a little bit harder, do you expect to‑‑  
RORY McILROY:   No, I mean, the only thing that I need to do tomorrow is hit more fairways, and if I hit more fairways and give myself chances, hopefully hit greens from there, hopefully give myself opportunities and chances for birdie.   That's all I want to do.   
   
 Q.   How much of a boost is it for you to have Caroline here?  
RORY McILROY:   It's great.   Obviously I'd still love her to be in New York playing, but it's great to have her here.   It's great to have her support.   I think this is her fourth tournament of the season with me.   It's nice.   It seems like every time she comes along, I play well, so it would be nice to get her here more often.  
   
 Q.   How much has her golf knowledge picked up?  
RORY McILROY:   A lot, yeah, it has, a lot.   She was even giving J.P. a little bit of grief.   I airmailed the green at the first.   We came off, and she went, "Nice club, J.P."   (laughter).   Yeah, it's good.   But my knowledge is definitely picking up in tennis, and hers is picking up in golf.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT