PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 2012
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How would you grade, putting aside, your ball‑striking?  
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, very good.   I think I hit every fairway.   Only missed a couple greens, gave myself plenty of looks, plenty of chances for birdies.   But I thought it was just a continuation of how I played yesterday afternoon.   I struck the ball beautifully from tee to green, same thing on Thursday, as well.   Just one more round like that, and I'll be happy.  
   
 Q.   Given how benign conditions are, how aggressively do you think you're going to need to play this afternoon?  
RORY McILROY:   Just play the same way.   I haven't really played that aggressive so far.   I've went for a few pins when I feel like I'm comfortable, but I played away from a few pins on the back nine this morning because the risk is just not worth it.   Holes like 13 and 17 you just play away from them, try and get it up‑and‑down for your par and move on.   I did that on 17, didn't quite do it on 13, but you've just got to know when to play safe and when you have a chance to go for it.   
   
 Q.   Does your mind wander at all or are you able to stay focused on every shot?  
RORY McILROY:   No, I was focused.   I hit a good putt on 10, just misread it.   11 wasn't a great putt.   12, I actually struggled a little bit with the pace early on, wasn't getting the ball to the hole, and then when I holed that putt on 15, that sort of‑‑ it was nice to see a ball go in the hole, and that got me going.   Those missed putts there are in the past and I'm just looking forward and looking towards this afternoon.  
   
 Q.   Were you looking at the leaderboard at all?   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, a little bit.   I was looking the last couple holes just to see where I was and what sort of position I'd be going into for the final round.   At the minute it looks pretty good.  
   
 Q.   A long day like this, last day of a major, how mentally tough do you have to be this afternoon?  
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, you do, you've got to be tough.   I definitely won't be looking at the boards as much as I was looking at them this morning.   I've got to really just stay focused on myself, go out there, maybe set myself a target, set myself a number, and then work towards that and not worry about what everyone else is doing.   
   
 Q.   What will you do during the break?  
RORY McILROY:   I'm going to go back into bed.   I didn't get enough sleep last night, so I'll go back and take a nap, get up, get showered and just sort of treat it like I'm just coming for the last round.   Yeah, it'll be nice to get back into bed for an hour or so.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, the same way I warmed up the last few days.   I'll go through my routine and do everything the same.   
   
 Q.   A lot of leaders have fallen back on Sundays.   What's the challenge?   
RORY McILROY:   I think you see a lot of guys that haven't held on in the past, it's been a first‑time experience for them.   You know, I learned a lot from the Masters last year, and that's definitely something that I can think back to and draw on some of those memories and some of the feelings I had at Congressional, as well, just to go, right‑‑ because you obviously know, you realize that you might not feel the same or your anxiety level is a little bit higher, and at least being in that position before, I'll know what to do again.   
I think Augusta last year will stand me in great stead this afternoon.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, a lot of it.   Yeah, exactly.   Yeah, I was just sort of treating this day like a 27‑hole round.   I'm happy to go back and get a bite to eat and rest up a little bit and just come back out there and get playing again.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT