THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 22, 2012
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  RORY McILROY:   A little bit, yeah, it wasn't the start that I wanted to get off to, 4‑over through 4.   I wanted to get off to a fast start both days, yesterday and today, and did the complete opposite.   So that was struggling from early on.
And then, yeah, I played okay coming in.   It was actually better.   I had a good practice session on the range last night and feel like I found something good there.   So that's something that I can work on this week and look forward to getting to Akron and trying to play there.

Q.   The end of another Open Championship, can you give us your overall assessment?
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I'm obviously very disappointed because I felt like I was coming in here playing pretty well.   I had a really nice first round, set myself up well for the week and then just started to struggle after that.   So it's just disappointing.

Q.   Is it all down to a bit of lack of confidence?
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, put down to that, or it's hard when you're trying to just get that little bit of momentum and you try to force it and you're maybe trying too hard and things don't go your way, and that sort of happened this week.

Q.   Can you give us your thoughts on the round this afternoon with Graeme?
RORY McILROY:   I'm going to be sitting in front of the TV and pulling for him.   These conditions should suit him.   The tougher it gets, the better it is for him.   And Adam has obviously got a bit of a lead.   But I know from experience it's hard to go out and protect something like that.   It will be an interesting afternoon.

Q.   (Inaudible.)
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I mean, I think the thing for me is to stay patient.   If it doesn't happen over the next couple of weeks, no big deal.   It's a 20‑year career, so I'm not going to get too wound up just over a few weeks.   I've got to keep working away, plugging away, working hard and working on the right things and eventually it will come around.

Q.   Do you feel like you know what it is?
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, we were searching a little bit Friday night and last night but feel like we found something there last night and had a really good session.   And actually feel like I hit the ball pretty well out there today, just got off to the bad start.   But, yeah, I've got something to work on for the next few weeks.

Q.   (Inaudible.)
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, three in a row, Northern Ireland.   Yeah, there's a long way to go.   It's just great to see him up there and hopefully he can give it a good shot.

Q.   Is this the hardest major to win?
RORY McILROY:   I don't know, I feel like I can win in any given week if I play well.   No, I mean, I think they're all equal.   If I had of been saying a couple of years ago I would say the U.S. Open the way they set it up, I just got a U.S. Open where it was a bit softer and was able to be a bit more aggressive.   I don't think there's any major that's harder to win than another.   You've just got to beat the other guys that are playing.   I can't see myself‑‑ I don't think any major is tougher for me than the other.   I think they're all‑‑ I treat them all equally and just try and do the best I can.

Q.   How much does the frustration get the better of you when you have the PGA and Ryder Cup in the future?
RORY McILROY:   The thing about Ryder Cup, I'm going to be left out if I'm not playing too good.   No, it's fine.   Like I said, I've just got to stay patient and just keep working away and it will turn around.   Everyone goes through little struggles.   What I'm experiencing at the minute is frustrating at times, but it's not anything that I can't deal with.

Q.   (Inaudible.)
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I don't know.   I think maybe‑‑ I don't know, maybe major championships on the toughest courses exposes maybe a few weaknesses that you have there.   I mean, Portrush was a pretty gentle course in terms of what we're facing this week. 
So when you see heavy rough on the left and bunkers on the right, you start thinking about that a little bit if you're not 100 percent confident about what you're doing.

Q.   It's hard to get out there and smile and wave when things aren't going too well; do you find that?
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, of course, when you're struggling, it's not really the nicest place to be.

Q.   (Question regarding Graeme McDowell.)
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, he's very gritty.   I think he enjoys these sort of days, these sort of battles.   That's what he plays for.   So he's, yeah, as I said earlier the tougher it gets it for him the better, I think.   When you have to grind it out, when you have to make a lot of pars.   I think that's when he's at his best. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT