THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 21, 2012
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  RORY McILROY:   I got off to a bad start and couldn't really do much from there.

Q.   What seems to be the problem at the moment?
RORY McILROY:   Just consistency, lack of consistency with my swing.   And from there it's tough, whenever you're not confident in the shots that you're trying to hit, then it is tough to sort of trust it.

Q.   When you're not in contention, do you find it hard to get motivated and get going out there?
RORY McILROY:   A little bit.   I was up for it this morning trying to go out there and post a good score.   But after playing the front nine like I did, you're just trying to shoot the best score you can out there.   And for me today that was only a 73.

Q.   The body language kind of suggests that you're not in a good place at the moment. 
RORY McILROY:   No, I'm frustrated.   I'm frustrated.   But that's the way it is.   That's golf.   And you just have to get on with it and keep trying and keep practising and stay patient until it turns around.

Q.   Was it particularly disappointing, because at the start of the week you had a lot of optimism about your game and the first round was good, it was a 67?
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, it was good.   And then all of a sudden I just started not to really trust it yesterday.   And then just sort of spiralled from there.

Q.   Is it kind of unique in your experience to have lost the little mojo that you had going in your game and be where you are now?
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, a little bit.   But to be honest, I'm getting used to it.   The last few weeks haven't been so great.   I just have to keep working hard and working away, and hopefully it will turnaround sometime.

Q.   Do you have the feeling that there are plenty of these still to go? 
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, exactly.   Yeah, it's‑‑ every tournament or every major that you don't play well in or you don't win is a chance missed, you know?   Yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT