WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 4, 2012
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   As of now you're right back in this.   What pleased you most about your round today?  
RORY McILROY:   I think everything.   I think I hit the ball well from tee to green, and I took a few of my chances early on.   Actually had a couple of big saves around 4, 5 and 6, and just finished it off well.   I took my chance on 16 and had a good chance at 17 and didn't make it but then holed a nice putt for par at the last.  
   
 Q.   There's a sparkle in you as if you have your confidence back.   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, it's getting there, it definitely is.   I've worked hard to get it back.   The last few weeks have been tough just playing so great, and obviously my expectations every time I tee it up are pretty high, and not to live up to my own expectations is not nice, but I feel like I'm definitely moving in the right direction.  
   
 Q.   You used the word momentum.   You get a feeling coming into this time of the year, but with all the big events coming up, you have a day in contention tomorrow and then the final major.   It all seems to be coming together.   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, it's perfect.   To get myself in contention tomorrow‑‑ obviously it depends how far Furyk is ahead of the rest of the field, but if I can go ahead and shoot a good one tomorrow and post a good finish or if I go ahead and get off to a really fast start and get myself right in there with a chance, then there's no better way to prepare for next week.  
   
 Q.   What is a really low number here?  
RORY McILROY:   I don't know, I mean, Jim shot 63 out there on the first day, so I think that's possible.   It depends on what the weather is going to be like, as well.   I know they're forecasting storms, so I'm not sure if it's going to be breezy or not, but anything in the mid 60s around here is a good score.   
   
 Q.   When is the last time you felt this good?   
RORY McILROY:   Not for a while, probably going into Quail Hollow.   Quail Hollow was good, and Wentworth was all right.   But yeah, sort of back in May.   
   
 Q.   Was there a point when you sort of recognized that it's gone here?  
RORY McILROY:   Not really gone, but it just wasn't as easy as it was at some point.   It's just stuff like working it out and finding a way to get back to where you were.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT