U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 15, 2012
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   So obviously a little different feeling than last year, can you kind of express how you're feeling right now?
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, obviously disappointed.   It wasn't the way I wanted to play.   I left myself with a lot of work to do after yesterday's round, and to be honest overall I don't feel like I played that badly for the last two days. 
It's just such a demanding golf course and just punishes the slight test shot that's off line or that's maybe not the right distance or whatever and that's how I feel.   I feel like it's, you really have to be so precise out there and if you're going to get punished. 

Q.   Do you hit it course suited your game the way you hit your shots, the way you like to putt?   Do you think it matched up with the way you like to play, or did you have to make changes in your game based on the way the golf course was?
RORY McILROY:   No, I think the thing is that we're just not used to playing this sort of golf course week in, week out.   You have to, of course you have to adapt and you have to adjust.   We're not used to having to land balls before the edge of the greens to let them run on.   And it's just something that you just have to adjust to in this tournament, and I wasn't able to do that very well this week. 

Q.   Did you have to revise your game plan in the middle of your round either of the of the last two days and change the way you thought you were going to have to play this golf course?
RORY McILROY:   Not at all.   I knew I needed a few birdies coming in today, so I just tried to attack as much as I could and go for pins.   And I had a good look for birdie on 6 and didn't take it.   And then I a look at eagle on 7 and made birdie there and had a good birdie look at 8 and once I missed that, I thought that if I holed that putt 8‑over might have a chance to make the cut.   But once that was missed, I knew that I probably wouldn't make it through the weekend. 
But as I said, I felt like I had some good shots out there and I don't think the score that's on the board really reflects how I played. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
RORY McILROY:   I'm not sure I haven't had enough time to sort of reflect and answer that question.   It's tough.   The thing about U.S. Open you got to hit fairways and when you hit it in the fairway you got to hit it on the green.   So it's something that I needed to do a little more often in this tournament.

Q.   You've had such a good run in the last stretch here with obviously the U.S. Open last year and then elevating kind of back and forth to No. 1.   How humbling has this last month been for you because this has probably been your biggest skid for lack of a better word?
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, it has been.   It just realized that you just got to keep working hard and you got to.   It doesn't come easy to you all the time yeah.   It hasn't been the greatest run over the last sort of six weeks or whatever it is; but as I said, I still see enough good stuff in the rounds that it does give me hope that it's not very far away. 

Q.   Other players speak well of how great you played last year, but they also said the USGA was going to give us a different score this year.   How do you feel about that, the fact that the course has been setup so tough after you tore up the record?
RORY McILROY:   Well, I don't think it's‑‑ of course, it's been set up tough, but it still gives you opportunities.   I had looks at birdies out there and it's more, even if they, if Congressional was set up last year like it is this year you would still get a decent winning score.   It's just the course is so tough with the reverse cambers and you hit it in the middle of the fairway sometimes it doesn't hold and you're in the rough and when you hit it in the rough it makes it difficult. 
So, yeah, they set it up like a real classic U.S. Open and I'm not sure, I think there was only a couple of guys under par this morning, so I think anyone that shoots around even par this afternoon is going to play a great round of golf. 

Q.   Irish Open and that next week?
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, that's the plan.   So just go back home and start playing some links golf and get ready for those couple weeks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT