THE IRISH OPEN
July 1, 2012
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What's your schedule leading up to The Open?  
RORY McILROY:   Off.   Two weeks off and get ready for Lytham.   Just going to prepare for that.  
   
 Q.   What state is your links game in now do you think?   
RORY McILROY:   Good.   I feel like my game from tee‑to‑green was very good this week and I gave myself a lot of chances.   You know, left a few shots on the greens, but you know, apart from that, I'm very happy with how the week's went.  
   
 Q.   Bogey‑free today, always pleasing?  
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, it is.   I didn't really put myself out of position out there at all.   I had to make a long 2‑putt on 15 for par, but apart from, that I basically had a chance on every hole.   
   
 Q.   You had a bit of momentum going in to putt for eagle on 10, just pulled it fractionally short.   If that had gone in, maybe would have given you a bit more impetus?  
RORY McILROY:   Maybe, and I hit it close on 11 and that just slid by on me.   Those two putts could have really got me going and turned the round into something special.   But still happy with how I played out there.   
   
 Q.   You talked earlier in the week about the greens being slightly slower; did you feel you had better pace today, and is your putting in good shape?  
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I didn't hole as many putts as I would have liked, but I hit a lot of putts where I wanted to, and either they just didn't break or didn't have the right speed.   
Yeah, I struggled with the pace of the greens all week, but I don't think it's anything to worry about.  
   
 Q.   Is there anything you and Michael will target specifically ahead of The Open Championship?  
RORY McILROY:   There's a lot of tee shots that you have to hit left‑to‑right at Lytham.   So just work on the fade and make sure that's in good order.   Apart from, that make sure the rest of the game is sharp and ready to go.   
   
 Q.   What has it been like for you, a home tournament?   
RORY McILROY:   It's incredible, as home a tournament as I'm ever going to play in.   It's just been incredible.   The crowds that have came out this week to support the tournament, to support the players, it's been great to be a part of.   It's great to be able to feel like I did something to help bring this tournament here and I think it's been a huge success.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT