BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 23, 2012
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MICHAEL GIBBONS:   Rory, many thanks for joining us.   Welcome back to the BMW PGA Championship.
RORY McILROY:   Thank you. 
MICHAEL GIBBONS:   Thoughts and feelings to start us off on the week ahead.   Big week for you.
RORY McILROY:   It is, yeah.   It's great.   I haven't played in Europe since the Dunhill last year, I don't think, so it's nice to be back.   It's shaping up to be a great week.   There's a great field on a great golf course with a few changes that have been made this year which I think really have improved the golf course, improved the playability of the golf course.   I think you'll see a few lower scores, which I think is what the fans want to see.   And you know, it looks like it's going to be a great week of weather, so can't really ask for much more than that. 
MICHAEL GIBBONS:   It's a special week for the Tour, isn't it, as you saw last night.
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, it's great that The European Tour has nights like that to celebrate everything that's happened, not just over the past 12 months, but what's happened over the past few years. 
The European Tour has definitely went from strength‑to‑strength, and it's showed by the attendance of the players and everyone there last night what The European Tour has come to be. 

Q.   Sorry to start off with negatives‑‑
RORY McILROY:   You haven't even started.   (Laughter).

Q.   Is this place another one that fits your eye, or doesn't? 
RORY McILROY:   No, this one's okay.   I really like the changes that they have made.   I like that they have turned 12 back into a par 5.   I like that they have flattened out a little bit of the right side of the 15th green.
And I love what they have done to 18; to take that bunker out on the right and they have cut down the trees a little bit so it's a much more inviting tee shot.   You can challenge the right side of the fairway, and from there, you know, give yourself a chance to hit the green in two, which obviously they have made larger, as well. 
Yeah, the playability, you won't see‑‑ I'm not sure what the winning score was like, 5‑ or 6‑under par it might have been.   But this year especially with the 12th going back to a par 5, you'll see the winning score into the double digits, which I think is much better.

Q.   You have never played that great here, have you?
RORY McILROY:   I finished fifth here in 2009 and that was a good finish. 
Last year, I felt like I kept getting off to good starts, maybe 2‑under through five or 3‑under through six, whatever, and just sort of kept stalling or something halted my momentum and I just couldn't keep that going. 
But you know, this is a golf course that I love, a golf course that I came here every year since I was ten years old to watch The World Match Play.   I remember when I was 12, I came over to stay with Daniel Torrance, Sam‑‑ the Torrance family and played this course every day for like a week.   I have some great memories of this place.   I haven't played that well over the last couple of years but it's a place that I enjoy coming back to.

Q.   Just to keep it going, you talked about the 18th.   Some years ago, it wasn't unusual, didn't happen often, but players occasionally did finish 3‑3 in the last two holes.   Is that possible the way the course is set up now? 
RORY McILROY:   Well, it is possible.   But maybe not as‑‑ you're not going to see it as often. 
What they have done with 17, it's a much more difficult green to hit in two, and just because they have got that run‑off on the right, you need to hit a near‑perfect shot to get it on the green. 
But 18, I think this year, you'll definitely see a few more threes.   The last couple of days I've played it, I've hit 5‑iron in both days, so it's definitely a hole that if you get a good drive away, you can take advantage of. 

Q.   Playing over in America as you do, and you guys, Lee, and Poults and all the others play in their big events, would you like to see more of the Americans come over here and challenge themselves on a different golf course to the ones they play over there? 
RORY McILROY:   Not really to be honest.   They have got their big events over there, and this is The European Tour's flagship event.   I think it should be for European Tour players who support the Tour.   I think this is a great event for us, and you know, it's something that we are very proud of.   It's great if people want to come over and play but I think it's just fine the way it is.

Q.   Two‑part question.   One, have you seen your Bobblehead, and what do you think of it? 
RORY McILROY:   Yes.   I think the Bobblehead might be a little better looking than me, which is nice.   So I've seen it, yes. 

Q.   Looking forward to that?
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I'm looking forward to it.   I've got a few friends coming over to San Francisco, so it will be a nice night on a Tuesday night to sort of take my mind away from the golf a little bit and have a bit of fun, and obviously throw the first pitch at a baseball game, something I've never done before. 
Just need to start practising.   I don't really want to make a fool of myself. 

Q.   It will be on YouTube forever.   This is not a trick question, but who do you think the best golfer in the world is right now?   You're ranked No. 1 but do you truly think you're better than everyone else? 
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I think that you have to believe that you're better than anyone else, or at least believe it.   On my day, I believe I can beat anyone in the world.   It's just finding that capability of when you're not playing your best to still come out on top.   That's the thing that I'm trying to learn how to do, because I've proved in the past that when I am on my game, I'm pretty hard to beat. 
So you have to believe that you're the best, and I certainly do believe that.   And it's just a matter of going out there and showing everyone else what I believe. 

Q.   When you used to come over for The World Match Play every year, was there a particular player you made a beeline to watch?   Did you walk the fairways with somebody?
RORY McILROY:   No.   I ran 36 holes every day.   Just had endless amounts of energy. 
But no, no one really‑‑ the first year I came over, I wanted to see Sergio.   I had never seen Sergio in person and really wanted to see him.   First year I came over, Monty might have beat O'Meara and then I remember Woosie beating Harrington, as well, in the final once. 
But yeah, great memories.   And it always seemed like the weather was great when we came here, really nice autumn days.   It was nice; it was great, sort of like a family weekend.   My mum and dad left me at the first tee at 8.00 in the morning and I didn't see them until 6.00 at night.   It was great.

Q.   When did you start thinking that you were the best player in the world? 
RORY McILROY:   I think there's a difference between thinking you had the potential to be the best player in the world and then actually‑‑ I've always believed in myself.   I think when‑‑ maybe Congressional last year, after that, I sort of started thinking of myself as definitely one of the elite players.   I think I moved up to No. 3 in the world at that point. 
From then, I've played pretty consistently, and I've won a couple of times.   Yeah, but you know, I've always believed on my day that I can beat anyone else, so that's‑‑ it's hard to sort of walk around saying, you know, I'm the best or whatever, but you know, you just have to believe in it and be quietly confident. 

Q.   You said you stayed with the Torrances when you were 12.   Can you talk about what being around at Sam at that age meant to you and what influence he was on you at that stage of your career? 
RORY McILROY:   I was more just good friends with Dan.   I came over to stay with him for a weekend.   I think it might have been half‑term or something.   Went over to play golf.   Played Sunningdale; played here.   Just had a great time.   Played with Sam and played with Dan and played with a few of his friends.   It was just a great week. 
This was before Sam became Ryder Cup Captain and everything.   It was just a great week.   I can't really say that he had much influence on my career, but definitely got a decent relationship with him. 

Q.   You talk about playing golf as world No. 1 and that; how does the whole lifestyle of a person change when they come to No. 1?   Or is it just in your thinking about everything that you do? 
RORY McILROY:   You definitely feel like you have a few more responsibilities.   I feel like I'm definitely a lot busier in tournament weeks than I used to be maybe.   Just having to fulfill commitments for sponsors, media, all that sort of stuff.   I think that's just finding a balance between getting the time to practise and putting in the work to obviously try and stay at No. 1 and fulfilling all of these other commitments. 
I think that's something that Martin Kaymer said when he got to No. 1; it's something that he struggled with a little bit and it's just something that comes with part of the territory I suppose.

Q.   You're playing in a group tomorrow with Ernie Els who is part golf course designer, at least the renovations, but also Martin Laird.   Have you played with Martin before in a tournament?
RORY McILROY:   I have played with Martin before, yes.   I can't recall where. 

Q.   Was it in America? 
RORY McILROY:   I know he hits it very high, hits it very long, and he putts well.   He's a very solid player. 

Q.   He doesn't think he's played with you before. 
RORY McILROY:   Maybe a practise round?   Don't know.   I'm sure I've played with him somewhere.   If not, must have just watched him hit it on the range or something. 

Q.   Luke was in earlier, and he was saying how much he admires your game; described it as free‑flowing and effortless, I think.   I just wonder how free‑flowing and effortless you think your own game is. 
RORY McILROY:   At times, I feel like it's free‑flowing.   I wouldn't say effortless.   Obviously you're trying your hardest over every shot, but some people say that I make it look like that sometimes.
Yeah, I think the one thing about my game is, you know, when I get over a shot, I trust myself and I commit to it and hopefully I'll go for it 100 per cent.   This game is unbelievable; when you're playing well, it can seem incredibly easy and you can't see how you're going to shoot anything above 68.   And when you're playing bad, it seems incredibly hard and you don't see how you're going to break par. 
It's very fickle and I've been on both end of the scale.   But I feel like my game is in good shape at the minute.   I've just got to go out there and try and hit good shots and hole some putts. 

Q.   The Flagship Events of the two Tours, is there any aspect of this event that makes it a lesser tournament than THE PLAYERS Championship? 
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I mean, the only thing‑‑ I mean, this is no‑‑ I don't want to say anything negative about this tournament, but if there's just one thing, THE PLAYERS, they say it's the strongest field in golf.   But apart from that, I mean‑‑ and obviously the prize money here isn't quite as much as it is at THE PLAYERS.   But I think this tournament has a lot of history and a lot of tradition, and it's a great event. 

Q.   A fantastic finish last year with the world's No. 1 and 2 battling it out.   Can you remember what you thought watching the stages of that and whether that is a little bit of a motivation for you to get this on your C.V., as well? 
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I think I was probably back in my hotel room at that stage; finished about four hours before. 
Yeah, I mean, Luke had been playing great the whole way through the season last year, and Lee had, also.   He had just won a couple of times in Asia I think and came here as world No. 1. 
You couldn't have written a better finish for the world No. 1 and 2 to come down the stretch, tie after 72 holes, play in a playoff; even though Lee‑‑ he hit a decent shot.   It ended up in the water.   Luke deserved to win because he hit a great shot on to the green to eight feet and held the putt for birdie, so he played the hole great. 
As I said, it was a great finish, and it would be great if I could be part of a finish like that this year. 

Q.   Given the criticism that the course faced from the players in the past couple of years, I was just wondering how much intrigued are you by golf course architecture when you're playing a round of golf? 
RORY McILROY:   To be honest, I mean, a lot of people ask me, when are you going to get into course design and everything.   I mean, to be honest, I wouldn't have a clue where to start. 
So I'm just concentrating on playing golf at the minute and course design is for something way down the road if I want to do it.   But, yeah, I just want to play golf courses at the minute and not think about designing them. 

Q.   Just two questions if you don't mind. 
RORY McILROY:   No problem. 

Q.   I understand you're not allowed to vote for yourself in the players' Player of the Year.   Who did you vote for, and why, as your Player of the Year? 
RORY McILROY:   I don't even tell you.   I don't even know if I voted.   Not sure.   If I did vote, I mean, it was probably Luke. 
I think it was Luke, yeah.   I mean, he was so consistent.   He won both Money Lists, played so consistently on both sides of the Atlantic.   He came over here, won here, won Scotland, won in the States, won the Match Play, won at Disney and just played really consistently the whole way throughout the year.   I don't think anyone played as good as him last year for the whole 12 months.   I think he was definitely deserving of it.

Q.   This is the first event in what promises to be a very exciting summer, especially in these islands.   You've gone through how you feel about the course here.   Can I ask how you think about Olympic, Portrush, and just go on then‑‑
MICHAEL GIBBONS:   Just every other event you're playing this year.
RORY McILROY:   Kiawah Island? 

Q.   And Lytham, of course. 
MICHAEL GIBBONS:   What are you doing for Christmas? 

Q.   Well, you haven't played Olympic, have you? 
RORY McILROY:   I haven't played Olympic yet, no. 

Q.   Don't worry about that.   (Laughter). 
RORY McILROY:   Portrush?   Portrush I've played a lot.   I'm looking forward to going to Portrush for The Irish Open.   I think it's going to be a great week.   It will be a good atmosphere.   The crowds will be fantastic.   I think I've played the course once since they have put the new tee boxes in. 
But it's a very, very fair golf course.   If you ask anyone who plays Portrush, they will tell you it's very fair.   You get rewarded for good golf.   And, yeah, it's great, for me personally, it's great because it's going to be my last event before The Open championship. 
So to play an event on a links course; I'll be playing links golf for three weeks going into the Open, which is going to be fantastic.   That's something I'm looking forward to. 
Lytham is a golf course which I've done well at before.   I nearly won a couple of Lytham Trophies.   I 3‑putted the last green to miss out on a playoff one year and Lloyd Saltman won the next or whatever it was.   I think it sets up well for me.   It's a real ball‑striker's golf course.   You've got to hit it great off the tee.   Got to shape your ball from left‑to‑right on most holes.   So that's something I'll be working on leading up to Lytham.   It will be great to try and‑‑

Q.   Just the last one, Kiawah then, being a Pete Dye course, how does that affect you?
RORY McILROY:   It's okay.   Whistling Straits was a Pete Dye course, and I was able to do pretty well there.   There's one Pete Dye course that I don't do so well at; I think everyone knows that. 
Kiawah, I don't really know much about it either.   I know it will be brutally hard and probably a bit breezy, as well.   It's looking like it's going to be a great summer of golf.

Q.   What do you know about Olympic? 
RORY McILROY:   I know that the greens are very small and I know that there's a lot of doglegs up.   So if a dog‑leg is right‑to‑left, the fairway will slope left‑to‑right.   I actually sat at dinner last night with Mike Davis who sets up the golf course for the USGA, and he was telling me that they made it a little fairer.   The fairways that do run off, he has made the rough a lot fairer and they have done this graded rough the last few years, but even more so, they have given the players more room. 
If you do hit a tee shot in the middle of the fairway, you shouldn't have to chip out or you shouldn't have to‑‑ if it runs into the semi‑rough, you're still going to have a relatively simple shot to the green.   So I think Mike does a great job in setting the courses up at U.S. Opens.   He sets them up very fair and definitely rewards good golf. 

Q.   You mentioned the impact that winning at Congressional had on the way you've thought about yourself and your game.   But did it have a negative impact, also, in terms of your ability to focus and concentrate perhaps, the hullabaloo that followed, etc., how long did it take for you to get your game back?
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, it was tough.   I was supposed to play the French Open a couple of weeks after and there's just so much going on.   Very similar to what Bubba has done after the Masters.   You know, once you win that first major, there's people come knocking on your door and it's very hard to slip straight back into what you do best, which is play golf. 
So you've got to take your time and regroup, and so I took those weeks off in between the U.S. Open and The Open Championship, and yeah, it didn't work too badly.   I felt like I prepared well for The Open.   Went in there playing nicely.   Just didn't‑‑ played okay the first couple of days and got stuck in the bad weather on Saturday morning which really killed me. 
But that first major, you're only going to win your first major once, so you've got to enjoy it and soak in everything. 

Q.   Coming up to the attempt to retain, does that impact on your golf at this minute? 
RORY McILROY:   No, not at all.   I'm thinking about just taking it tournament to tournament, week‑to‑week.   I've got two big events coming up the next two weeks, here and Memorial.   I would love to give myself a chance to win both.   Then, I'll start to think about the U.S. Open and getting my game ready for that. 
MICHAEL GIBBONS:   Rory, thanks very much for joining us.   Good luck this week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT