THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE INSURANCE
June 1, 2012
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about the round, obviously disappointing.   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I got off to a decent start and had a couple opportunities there early for birdies and didn't take them.   I hit some good shots, it just seems like every time I go out there I make one or two big numbers and that sort of throws me, a couple doubles on the back nine.   Just those big numbers at the beginning are killing me, and I just need to get those off the card and I'll be okay.   
   
 Q.   As you look ahead to the U.S. Open, do you feel like you're close, that it's not that far away?  
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I mean, I don't feel like the scores are actually reflecting how I'm hitting the ball.   I was able to string nine good holes together yesterday.   I just need to keep working on it and try and string 18 good holes together and then try and string two days together and obviously three days and ultimately four.   
But I hit some good shots out there.   I'm definitely hitting the ball better than I did last week, so I can see an improvement there.   But I've still got a long way to go.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
RORY McILROY:   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   Did it hit something?  
RORY McILROY:   No, it was on the bank, and I just wanted to chip it out in the middle of the fairway, and as soon as I hit it, it obviously just hit the bank in front of me and came back in the water.   Probably a bit of bad judgment because I thought I could just chip it back out.   But if I had have examined the line maybe a little bit closer, I might have just taken a drop straight away.   But yeah, that wasn't the cause of it.   
   
 Q.   What are you going to do tomorrow?  
RORY McILROY:   I'm not sure yet.   It's supposed to be pretty cool here the next couple days.   To be honest, I'm not sure.   I haven't thought that far ahead.   Just getting over this, and the practice facilities here are pretty good, so I might stay around and hit some balls here.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT