THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 11, 2012
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Couldn't get anything going?  
RORY McILROY:   Birdied the first hole today and just couldn't get much going after that.   I just need to try and get the hang of this golf course somehow.   It's just‑‑ I just find it pretty difficult, but yeah, just one of those weeks.  
   
 Q.   Anything in particular you do find difficult?   
RORY McILROY:   Off the tee I find pretty difficult around here.   You have really got to position your ball in the fairway and to give yourself at least a chance to get to some of these pins.   I just didn't do that over the last couple of days.  
   
 Q.   Are there things that you don't like to do on this golf course‑‑  
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, a little bit, but I've played golf courses in the past that forced me to do that, as well, and I've done well on those.   Something about this place I just can't quite get to grips with.  
It's fine.   I've got a week off, and you know, go back to Europe and get ready for Wentworth.  
   
 Q.   Did you come here this week thinking that you would figure it out?   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, of course.   I've come back here a much better player, I feel.   A much more consistent player; experienced player; and yeah, I felt like I would come here and think my way around the golf course and just try and play steady golf.   I tried to do that, and just didn't happen.  
   
 Q.   Would it be enough for you not to come back?  
RORY McILROY:   No, I'll come back.   
   
 Q.   Promise?   
RORY McILROY:   What's that?   I promise.   (Laughter).  
   
 Q.   Is this a course that you ever feel like you can figure out?   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I'm sure I will.   I mean, hopefully I'm coming back here for another 20 years.   If I don't figure it out on my 20th go, there's something wrong (chuckling).   
   
 Q.   Phil didn't figure it out his first couple at‑bats, either.   
RORY McILROY:   And you look at Tiger who has won here obviously and Phil, but for the caliber of player they are, they definitely have got more layouts that are more to their liking.   It's just a course that you have to figure out, and it's taken me a while.   I'll come back next year, my fourth attempt, and try to make it to the weekend.  
   
 Q.   Of all the courses, is this one that you struggle to see more than any other one?  
RORY McILROY:   For sure, yeah.   
   
 Q.   You and Phil had a nice chat coming up; what did you talk about?   
RORY McILROY:   He's playing Dallas next week.   Just talking to him about he's got his family this week and if he's bringing anyone next week, and he's saying he's going to bring his middle daughter that organized a trip to Six Flags, and just talking about all that sort of stuff.   It's good.   
   
 Q.   Last weekend, after you almost won‑‑ is it much of a difference?  
RORY McILROY:   Not at all.   It's unbelievable.   I shoot 14‑under last week and I feel like I hit it just the same this week, and I'm going home.   
So it's just one of those things.   But you know, I'm not getting down on myself about it.   I played well last week, and I've got a big part of the season coming up and looking forward to that.   
   
 Q.   You've had such a fast learning curve at other places, and you missed the cut at the U.S. Open and came back the next year and won it and‑‑  
RORY McILROY:   It's different courses.   Pebble played so much different than Congressional.   Congressional and Bethpage played similar.   
I don't know what it is about this place, but as I said, I'll come back next year and give it my best and try to make it to the weekend.  
   
 Q.   What's the biggest thing you learn this week?   
RORY McILROY:   Not sure.   I'm still to see Saturday.   I don't really know at the minute.   I don't know how to answer that one.   
But I've got a lot of big events coming up, and that's what I'm looking forward to now.   Try to get my game in the best shape possible going into those.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT