WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 6, 2012
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MARK STEVENS:   We'd like to welcome Rory McIlroy, a great finish, great playoff, came up a little short.   You want to talk about just the day and your thoughts.  
RORY MCILROY: Yeah, I mean, I got off to a bit of a slow start, 1‑over through 6, and made a couple birdies to turn under par, which was nice.   Made a good birdie on 10, sloppy bogey on 11.   Only had a wedge in my hand there.   Made two good birdies on 14 and 15 and hit a good putt on 16 for birdie that just dived on me a little bit at the end.   17 and 18 were playing pretty tough.   So to bogey one of those two was disappointing.   
But I felt like it was a bonus just to get into the playoff after D.A. bogeyed the last, so anyway, I can't‑‑ you wouldn't call the 18th today a birdie hole with that pin.   For Rickie to go out and play that hole the way he did, he deserved to win.   
   
 Q.   You've got to be disappointed because as you said, you didn't have your best game but you were right there.   What was the thing that you'll look back on, the bogey on 17 or‑‑  
RORY MCILROY: No, probably the bogey on 11 was very disappointing.   17 was‑‑ I didn't play the hole that badly.   I hit a good chip shot and it just came up a little short and left myself a tricky putt.   Overall it's been a decent week, to come back after three weeks off and get myself in the mix, I gave myself a chance to win, was nice.   It gives me a bit of confidence going into next week.   
   
 Q.   You're as comfortable here as anywhere; is that fair to say?  
RORY MCILROY: Yeah, I think so.   It's a course that I just love to play, and when you enjoy playing a golf course, you usually do well, and this is definitely one of my favorite stops of the year.   
   
 Q.   With this finish today, you're back to No.1 in the world.   What are your thoughts about that?   
RORY MCILROY:   That's nice.   It's a little consolation.   I would rather win the tournament.   But yeah, it's good.   You know, I want to try and play well for the next few weeks and try and solidify my spot there at No.1 and hopefully start by doing that next week and giving myself another chance to win.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about what it means to have J.P. on the bag and what he's brought to your career so far?  
RORY MCILROY:   Yeah, J.P. has been great.   I started working with J.P. in the middle of 2008 when I was 200 in the world, and we've got all the way up to No.1 together.   He's done a great job, and he knows me really well.   I think that's one of the most important things.   
   
 Q.   Just a little bit about Rickie.   Obviously for a long time people have been saying when are you going to win, when are you going to win, and he finally wins in dramatic style.   You've known him for a long time.   A little bit about him?  
RORY MCILROY:   Yeah, I mean, I think it was just a matter of time before he won.   I played in the Korean Open last year which he won, it was his first win as a pro, and then it seems like this tournament produces first‑time winners, Anthony Kim, myself, now Rickie.   
It's great to see.   He probably has went through a little bit of sort of scrutiny and a lot of pressure trying to get that first win, but now that win is out of the way.   Hopefully that'll ease the pressure a little bit.   But great to see, especially, as I said, the way he played that playoff hole, he played to win.   He deserved it after that birdie.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT