WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 4, 2012
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   4‑under 68, can you talk about that?  
RORY MCILROY:   It was okay.   I haven't felt like I've had anything near my best the last couple days, but I've been able to get it around, and to be 6‑under through two rounds is pretty good, considering the way I've hit the ball.   I just need to do some work this afternoon on the range and see if I can improve that and have a good weekend.   
   
 Q.   You hit three fairways yesterday, seven today.   Is that something you're going to work on, the driver?  
RORY MCILROY:   Yeah.   To be honest, a lot of those drives were like in the semi‑rough and they're actually not that bad.   But you do need to hit fairways here to get yourself a chance.   But I'm pretty happy with 6‑under.   It could be better, but I'll take it.  
   
 Q.   Any plans for the 23rd birthday?  
RORY MCILROY:   Not really.   I don't have much going on.   Probably just go out for a nice dinner and take it easy and get ready for tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   You got it going a little bit there today.   
RORY MCILROY:   Yeah, it was a little better.   Still wasn't great, but yeah, it's getting there.   It was an improvement on yesterday.   I just need to go and work on the range this afternoon, and hopefully it's a little bit better again tomorrow, and hopefully I can shoot something a little lower.  
   
 Q.   What was the challenge with the greens for you today?  
RORY MCILROY:   The greens?   
   
 Q.   Yeah, you said greens were the challenge?  
RORY MCILROY:   No, I felt like I putted the ball pretty well.   That was pretty good.  
   
 Q.   Given where you were after two rounds two years ago, you're better off now I would think.   Does that give you a lot of confidence?  
RORY MCILROY:   Yeah, I know that‑‑ I think I was nine back or ten back going into the weekend here last time, so being only six back should be easy.   But no, the guys at the top of the leaderboard are obviously playing well, and I'll obviously go out and get off to a good start tomorrow and post a good one to give myself a chance going into Sunday.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT