WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 8, 2012
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Rory, how did it go out there? 
RORY McILROY:   It was a bit of a struggle.   It was a pretty tricky day but obviously there was good scores out there.   I just didn't really get anything going.   You know, I was trying to sort of play my way back into the round.   I thought if I could shoot under par on the back nine, which was the front nine, post something around 70, 69, it would have been a good score.   But made a couple bogeys early on on that nine and couldn't really get it back. 

Q.   There was a lot made this week of you and Tiger; is that justified, or is this just an over reaction by the media, or what was your take on all that?
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I mean, look, after what happened last Sunday, Tiger shoots 62, I end up winning to go to world No. 1, obviously people are going to talk.   But I think everyone has to remember, there's 80 other players in this field or whatever it is, and it's not just about a couple of guys. 

Q.   Difficult to get back into it today?
RORY McILROY:   A little bit.   To be honest I felt a little flat out there.   I don't know, I shouldn't, it's a World Golf Championship, but just felt a little flat out there.   But, look, I'll go out there tomorrow and try my best, try and get it into red figures and see what I can do. 

Q.   Is that understandable, given just your run lately? 
RORY McILROY:   A little bit.   I mean, I'm not sure if I put it down to that.   Just one of those days where it's just hard to get anything going.

Q.   Was it more mental, just mentally flat? 
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, mentally flat.   I mean, physically, I'm fine.   But mentally, just‑‑ I don't know, it's tough.   When you're working, you've got, you know, Arizona and you've got a chance to go to world No. 1; and then Honda, you've got a chance to then‑‑ all of a sudden you're there, and you're like, well, what do you do. 
I just need to go out and set myself a target tomorrow and try and post a number. 

Q.   How was the range session today?   Did you feel all right on the range?
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I felt good.   I feel like I'm hitting the ball really well.   Hit a couple loose drives coming in, but I mean, I feel like I'm hitting the ball pretty well.   Could have made a few more putts.   But, yeah, it's not disastrous.   I can go out tomorrow and get off to a good start and try to get into red numbers.

Q.   You mentioned‑‑ what do you do when you get a bit flat?   How do you handle that?   There's so many tournaments and events, you're No. 1 now; how do you stay mentally at the top of your game all the time?
RORY McILROY:   To be honest, I don't think you can.   There's going to be times where you're going to feel a little bit off, and it's just trying to handle those the best you can.   It wasn't that bad.   It's plus one, but as I said, I can go out tomorrow morning, or tomorrow afternoon, and get off to a good start and be right back in it.   I think minus three is in the Top‑10 or Top‑15 or something.   So I just have to, again, go out, try to play some good golf, maybe give myself a target and try and shoot for that. 

Q.   Was the 6‑under a little surprising that a couple guys got that low?
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, a couple of guys got that low early.   That sort of surprised me.   But 6‑under out there with the conditions is a very good score. 

Q.   How many weeks will you take off after this?   You did the same thing last year and obviously it worked well.   Is that why you're doing it, because you found last year that was a good run‑up to the Masters? 
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, it's the only reason‑‑ I feel like it worked well last year.   Got some really good practice in.   And to be honest, I feel like my first event back usually is my best, first or second.   
             So yeah, I feel fresh, I feel mentally ready, and three in a row for me is probably the most that I'll ever do.   Apart from last year when I did about 15 in a row at the end of the season (laughing).   This year, I've tried to limit it to three. 

Q.   Did you play a lot of golf with friends during that three weeks? 
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I practiced and played, played a few games with Luke, a few games with Camilo and Dustin, a few guys down there in Palm Beach.   Probably do the same thing.

Q.   How fresh and mentally ready did you feel today?
RORY McILROY:   Not particularly fresh or‑‑ I felt fine, but I was just saying to the guys, just feeling a little bit flat and hard to get any sort of momentum going. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT