TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 25, 2019
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How would you assess how things went out there today?
RORY MCILROY: Yeah, I felt like it was a pretty good morning's work. I went back out on to the course 11-under par for the tournament, was able to pick up three shots. So all in all, a pretty good morning. I let a couple sort of get away from me on 13 and 14, but then to get those shots back on 15 and 18 was nice. Still a lot of golf left. 18 holes on this golf course. There's still a few guys in there that have a chance to win. Just try and reset over the next few hours and get ready to go again.
Q. About that, it's a marathon day today. With so much at stake, as well, how do you prioritize what you now focus on in the hours to come?
RORY MCILROY: Yeah, I think I'll probably go in and have a second breakfast, get a little bit of rest. Yeah, just rest up and probably try to occupy myself with something other than golf. Maybe watch a TV show or read a book or something. Just try to really get away from thinking about what's going on out there, and then when the time comes, turn my attention to preparing and getting ready to go again.
Q. What are you reading?
RORY MCILROY: Digital Minimalism at the minute.
Q. (Indiscernible).
RORY MCILROY: I've sort of been back and forth a little bit. There was a couple of books that I got into that took me a while to finish, so sort of have dabbled in it for a while. But I thought it was a good one to actually sit down and get the whole way through.
Q. Does that mean you won't check your phone?
RORY MCILROY: No, no. It's funny. It was lying on the bed the other night, and I was on my phone, and Erica said, that's ironic. But no, it's just using it the right way, I guess.
Q. What's your biggest focus this afternoon, a key that you need to do well to win?
RORY MCILROY: I think more than anything it's trust what I'm seeing on the greens. A couple times out there this morning, I just didn't trust my reads. I was a little indecisive. So this afternoon, just really commit to picking a line and going with it. If I do that, then I'm going to make good strokes and hopefully hole a few more putts.
Q. What changed from just the start Saturday? Guys were off to a tough start before the delay. Is it just the conditions today?
RORY MCILROY: I don't think so. It was windy. The ball wasn't traveling as far. I don't think the scoring was that much -- I mean, I think the second nine is a little easier, so yeah, and it feels a bit more comfortable. Obviously you're not sweating. There's a lot of different variables there. But the course is still playing tough. I shot 2-under par and didn't lose any ground.
Q. The fact you've won this FedExCup title before in 2016 and not everyone in the mix has up until now, how vital a factor might that be?
RORY MCILROY: Yeah, I hopefully will be able to draw on that experience. Obviously Xander has won the TOUR Championship before, not the FedExCup. J.T. has won the FedExCup before, but not the TOUR championship. I've been able to do both, so hopefully I can draw on that from a few years ago. And, yeah, I've got a lot of experience. And hopefully, as I said, I can use that to my advantage.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT