THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 2, 2012
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   3‑under 67, and you had a couple of 6‑footers on the front nine; if those had gone in, this could have been a really good round. 
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I had a few chances early on and didn't take them.   You know, sort of kept making pars and making pars, and broke that run with a bogey on 13 which was frustrating.   But to bounce back from that and birdie three of the last five holes was nice and puts me in great position going into the weekend.

Q.   I saw you glance at the scoreboard a couple of times, a 61 out there and a 64; what did you think today? 
RORY McILROY:   You know, I practiced pretty early this morning at like nine o'clock over at The Bear's Club, and it was flat calm.   So you could see scores like that being shot out here. 

Q.   So you're in at 7‑under and put yourself in position for the weekend?
RORY McILROY:   Still a lot of golf left, 36 holes.   I just need to keep doing the same things, try to drive the ball in the fairway and give myself loads of opportunities and try and take a few, because you don't need to make tons of birdies out here.   You just have to keep the big numbers off your card.
Just keep putting your ball on the greens and trying not to short‑side yourself.   I did that pretty well for the most part.   Made a couple of good saves around the turn and birdied three of last five holes which was nice. 

Q.   Is patience the key on this golf course, especially in the afternoon?
RORY McILROY:   Most definitely.   I got on a little run of pars there for a few holes and gave myself a few chances and just tried to keep telling myself not to get frustrated, because par on this golf course isn't that bad a score. 

Q.   And you have to play inside your game, because one mistake could kill your round out here. 
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, and this golf course can make average golf look like very bad golf very suddenly.   So this course isn't about making tons of birdies.   It's about keeping the big numbers off your card.

Q.   One shot back, game plan for the weekend? 
RORY McILROY:   Just keep doing the same thing.   I've been putting my ball in the fairway and keep giving myself as many opportunities as possible.   I know I don't have to make all of them but just take a few of them. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT