WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 9, 2012
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  RORY McILROY:   I felt okay, I couldn't get the speed of the greens, that was the real problem.   I played the par 5s well and my other couple of birdies were tap‑ins.   So I just didn't hole anything which wasn't great.   I got off to a good start and couldn't quite keep it going, but felt like I played some good shots out there.   Just didn't hole many putts.  
   
 Q.   What score was out there with the conditions?  
RORY McILROY:   Well, there was a 62 out there obviously.   But yeah, especially after the start, I felt I could have‑‑ yeah, something in the low 60s definitely was out there.   Bubba shot that and there was a couple 64s out there as well.   It was pretty‑‑ it was still windy out there.   It's not like it was flat calm.   But yeah, the guys seemed to go very low here for some reason, and I'll need to go very low for the weekend to try and post a good finish.   
   
 Q.   Given that you've reached No. 1, is it sort of difficult to not have a letdown or not have a sort of where do you go from here moment?   
RORY McILROY:   You know, everything‑‑ even this week, next week and the next couple of weeks will be thinking towards Augusta.   So that's what I am going to build myself up for.  
   
 Q.   How much is that on your mind playing here this week, and does it make it harder to focus on this tournament?   
RORY McILROY:   It will definitely be‑‑ if I was in contention, it probably would not be on that mind that much.   But seeing where I am on the leaderboard, it's on my mind a little bit more.  
   
 Q.   Are you doing anything out there in terms of working on different kind of shots?   
RORY McILROY:   It's different and Augusta usually isn't that windy.   Here, it is pretty windy, you know.   So no, I mean, I've got three weeks with no competitive golf leading up to Augusta to work on a few things, and trying to get my game in shape that way.   
   
 Q.   You are a pretty big hitter, Tiger was a big hitter back in his day when he was a younger guy; how do you salvage your knee and not have problems like Tiger did in his career later on?   Are you doing about that with your swing or trainers?   
RORY McILROY:   Not really.   I haven't really had any problems with my knee so far.   You know, the way Tiger used to swing it back in the late 90s and early 2000s, I don't feel like I put as much torque on my left knee like he did.   
So hopefully, touch wood, that everything's going to be okay.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT