OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 11, 2012
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Having played quite beautifully for the first two days, that wasn't what we were expecting, what was going on?  
RORY McILROY:   No, it was pretty ragged to say the least.   Don't know.   I think the conditions were a little tougher, the wind got up, and had not really played in wind like that all week, so that sort of put me off a little bit, and the greens got a little firmer, pin positions were a little tougher, and yeah, just definitely didn't come as easy to me as it did the first couple of days.   Going to go to the range now and work on a few things, and see if I can iron it out for tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   What's mind‑set when it's not your day and you're not swinging at your best and not feeling comfortable?  
RORY McILROY:   Just to try and hang in there and stay as close to the leaders as possible.   I think I've done pretty well just to stay two back.   It looked for a stage that I could have been four or five back going into tomorrow but to only be two back is actually a bonus.   I feel like it could have been worse, and   two shots over 18 holes, you get off to a fast start and you're right back in it.  
   
 Q.   You said you're going to go to the range and work on a couple of things; do you know what it is?   Are you pretty sure you can fix it?  
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I just need to work on a few basics that I always try to go back to when I'm struggling a little bit.   But it shouldn't be too big a problem and hopefully I'll come out tomorrow and hit it a little better.  
   
 Q.   The quality of the leaderboard we have got, you're going to have to shoot a good round in whatever conditions we get and it might be windy, what are your thoughts on tomorrow?   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, to be honest, the windier the better.   It means that the guys in front of me, unless someone plays really, really well, can't really get away from me.   So I wouldn't mind that; that would be good, it would make it a tough battle and yeah, I mean, even though it wasn't a great day today, I'm only two back, so I'm still in a pretty positive frame of mind.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT