ABU DHABI HSBC GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 29, 2012
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Thoughts on your round and the week?  
   
 Q.   Your thoughts, please, on your round today and the week?  
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, it's good.   It's a good start to the year.   It's nice to go out there in the final round of the first tournament you play with a chance to win.   It doesn't quite look like I've done enough depending on what Robert does on the last and what Tiger does, as well.   But yeah, I mean, I played solid out there.   I could have maybe made a few more of the opportunities that I presented myself.   
   
 Q.   Horrible question; how much is that two‑shot penalty in your thinking?   
RORY McILROY:   Actually not at all.   It's one of those things, it happens, and I'm not going to lose any sleep over it.   
   
 Q.   Dubai is your next start.   How much are you looking forward to that, a week off to practise and to get your game in shape?  
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, really looking forward to a course I've done well at before and great memories.   Looking forward to getting another week's worth of practise and coming out and trying to challenge for that title and my first title of the year.   
   
 Q.   At what point did you realise that you had a chance to get the victory?   
RORY McILROY:   I realised whenever I birdied 13 to get to 11‑under and then made a great par save on 14.   I'm going up to the 15th green to look at the leaderboard and saw that I was only one shot behind.   
Had a good chance on 15 and on 17 to make birdies and didn't quite‑‑ didn't quite make the putts, and then I saw Robert birdie 14 and 16 I think, two of the toughest holes on the course today.   If he goes onto win, he certainly deserves it.  
   
 Q.   How do you balance the positive of a good finish with the negative of not getting the victory?  
RORY McILROY:   You know, you've got to take the positives.   It's the first week of the year, and you know, it looks like it's going to be the second year in a row here that I'll finish second.   But still a very good start to the season and something I'll build on.  
   
 Q.   You're going to skip a week and play Dubai, so in between what will you work on here in the desert?  
RORY McILROY:   Just work on still the same things that I was working on coming into this week, a little bit of posture, trying to get the club in the right position on the way back.   I felt like this week, I improved off the tee every day.   I didn't miss a fairway until the 11th I think today, and that was a big improvement and something I still have to work on.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT