TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 22, 2019
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Rory, did it start to feel normal as the day went on scoring-wise, as you looked at the leaderboard?
RORY MCILROY: Yeah, it did. I mean, I feel like I shot one worse than I did yesterday. But, no, it does. If you try to -- it's no different. It's 72 holes of golf. Obviously, the start is staggered a little bit, but no, not really. It didn't feel that much different, to be honest with you, which I guess is a good thing. You don't want it to feel that much out of the ordinary compared to what you do week in and week out.
You know, I sort of had the mindset this week that I'm starting on even par, and I'm going to try to shoot a good four-round total and see where that leaves me at the end of the week.
Q. (No microphone.)
RORY MCILROY: A little better. I started pretty well. I had pretty decent opportunities on the first three holes and didn't make them and then made a nice one on 4. The greens are so fast, and the greens are getting a little firm. It's difficult at times to put yourself on the right side of the pin. I felt like I had a lot of putts today from 15 to 20 feet, but you're just being so defensive with them. You're just rolling them down the hill, hoping -- with good speed, hoping that they might drop.
I think, because you're hitting them so easily or slowly, they take a lot more break as well. So I missed a lot of those downhill ones a little low. So that's something to just sort of -- for me to pay attention to the next few days.
Q. (No microphone.)
RORY MCILROY: I was trying to go about 15 feet left of it, and the ball came out a little right, but it was a good miss and a nice three. Would have been nice to cut the round off with a birdie at the last. Again, you -- even that little chip shot, I dragged it slightly, left myself on the wrong side of the hole, had that downhill left to right putt. I think I had longer for my second putt than I did for my first.
So the next three days, it's just about trying to get it on the right side of the hole.
Q. Did you see Brooks' photos?
RORY MCILROY: Yes.
Q. What did you think of them? You've seen them before?
RORY MCILROY: No, no, I haven't seen them before. I saw the Phil one. Did anyone see the Phil one? I think he -- just a little bit. I commented under one of them. You can breathe out now, Phil. It's fine. The photo's been taken.
No, I know Brooks worked hard for that. He's an athletic guy. He's strong. He's proud of the work he's put in. So get on them.
Q. Would you ever consider doing that?
RORY MCILROY: I was asked in 2015, and I said no. Sort of -- I mean, just -- I don't know. It's just a little strange. So, no, not for me.
Q. Would you be inclined to give him any grief about it, good-natured grief to Brooks?
RORY MCILROY: No, not really. I mean, no. You have to have a bit of confidence to get up there and do it in the first place, so good on him.
Q. Rory, can you just sum up how you feel at the end of the day.
RORY MCILROY: I feel good. My score, 66 was a decent start. I think it was a fair reflection of how I played. There was some good stuff in there. There was some not so good stuff in there. I scrambled well when I needed to. The ball was under control for the most part, and it's now a 54-hole golf tournament instead of a 72-hole golf tournament, and just trying to continue to good play.
Q. How exciting is it to be right in the thick of it?
RORY MCILROY: Yeah, it is. I hoped after today that I would be, and to be right up there with three rounds to go, it's a great opportunity to -- I guess to try to get my name on that FedExCup trophy again.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT