DUBAI WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY DP WORLD
December 11, 2011
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Gave it a good shot over the week, didn't you.   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I just wasn't‑‑ the weekend, I just couldn't get anything going when I needed to.   I think that I played a nine‑hole stretch on Friday night and Saturday morning in 5‑over par.   The last two holes on Friday and the first seven holes on Saturday, I played in 5‑over, so I figured could have taken those back.   Even if I had played them on level par, would have been in a great position going into today.   I think that's really where the tournament got away from me.  
   
 Q.   Putting the clubs away?   Not going to Thailand?   
RORY McILROY:   No.   
   
 Q.   Until when, next tournament?   
RORY McILROY:   Until Abu Dhabi.   
   
 Q.   Looking forward to the break by the sounds of it?  
RORY McILROY:   Yeah.   Can't wait.   Can't wait to not have to get up and practise or hit a shot or people telling me what to do or where to go, or just have a few weeks off would be nice.  
   
 Q.   Was that the advice of the doctor?  
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, she just said, look, another flight, a bit of jet‑lag, sleeping patterns messed up; even though your sleeping patterns haven't been great the last few weeks anyway.   
Yeah, it just would have been‑‑ I think this week was one too many.   Next week would have really been a big struggle, because she said, you know, however bad you're feeling this week, you're going to feel even worse by the end of next week.   
   
 Q.   Time is on your side to get to world No. 1, but do you think it could take some time?  
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I've never really put a time frame on it.   I said earlier in the year, that sometime next year, it would be great if I was able to do it.   I have to play very, very well and Luke has to‑‑ even if Luke keeps up his current form, you would have to do something spectacular.   
You know, he's up there every week, and as I said yesterday, he deserves everything he's got this year.   It's been an incredible year for him, and I'm sure everyone expects him to continue and keep pushing forward and doing the same things next year, as well.   
   
 Q.   Been a good, progressive year for you.   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I've made great progress this year with my game, with my results, with everything.   I feel like I'm swinging the club as good as I ever have.   I feel like my body is as strong as it's ever been.   This year has been a massive step in the right direction.   You know, there's a lot of positive things going into next year.   
   
 Q.   Is winning both tours one of your lists of goals now?   
RORY McILROY:   Not really, no.   My goals are just to win tournaments and to try and become a multiple‑major champion.   
   
 Q.   Can you speak about what it's taken for Luke to be as relentlessly consistent as he has on both tours?   You're standing here shattered after the schedule you've had, but can you just give us an insight on that.   
RORY McILROY:   Basically every time he's teed it up, he's had a chance or he's finished in the Top 5 or Top‑10.   
So that takes an incredible amount of‑‑ mentally you have to be so good, just to keep grinding out the scores when you need to.   I've practised with Luke and I've played with him.   He works incredibly hard as well, and that's what you need to do to keep that level of consistency up.   
   
 Q.   And do you kind of look at him and say, well, that's the kind of thing that I have to aspire to, as well; I'm not saying you don't, but you know what I mean, is he an inspirational character for other guys on the Tour?  
RORY McILROY:   I don't know.   I mean, I don't look at any of the other guys as inspirations.   I have to find inspiration in myself and motivation from inside me, and that's where you set yourself goals and little targets throughout the year, and that's what you try to achieve.   There's no point in looking at anyone else, because I mean, if I aspire to be like Luke Donald, then I'll never be better than him.   I want to try and obviously be better than everyone else.  
   
 Q.   A thought just why you were two weeks ago in The Race to Dubai, the fact that you kind of got here to late afternoon on the second Sunday, you've got to be pretty pleased with that.   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, it's been a nice way to finish the season.   It would have been nice to at least have a chance going into today, but it's been a great season.   When I sit down and reflect on it over Christmas, to win my first major and to win a couple more tournaments, and to play as well as I have in most of the tournaments I've entered, it's been a great year.   As I said, I've made great process, and hopefully I can go onto bigger and better things next year.   
   
 Q.   Do you envisage leaving the clubs for a month or five weeks and perhaps go to Dubai the week before?   
RORY McILROY:   I'm planning on coming back to Dubai on the 12th of January.   So yeah, I mean, I'll see myself doing quite a bit of gym work between now and then, but I probably won't hit a full shot until I get back out here.   I'll try and keep on top of my short game or my putting a little bit, putt a little bit inside or whatever.   Mostly gym work and try to get my body stronger.   
   
 Q.   Is it straight home now?   
RORY McILROY:   No, I'm actually going to stay here for a few days.   
   
 Q.   Did the doctor say complete rest?  
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, complete rest.   She said don't bother getting on a flight for a few days, just completely stay in the one place for a while and just chill out.  
   
 Q.   You had planned to go back and you've changed that because of her advice?  
RORY McILROY:   Well, I had planned to go to Thailand, so I haven't really made any arrangements.   I'm going to stay here.   
   
 Q.   Going to play any tennis?   
RORY McILROY:   Not for a while.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT