UBS HONG KONG OPEN
December 3, 2011
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Thoughts on the day?  
RORY McILROY:   Not very good.   I just didn't have anything out there.   Just mentally just wasn't really at the races, and just struggled to really get anything going.  
You know, it was one of those days where nothing much was happening, and it was nice to birdie a couple coming in to sort of keep me in it.   I'm only three behind.   So if I can get off to a decent start tomorrow, I'm right back in it.   
   
 Q.   Is this the weariness that you spoke of?   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, it is, definitely.   I mean, I felt okay on the range and stuff, but then going out on the golf course, I notice when I'm not quite‑‑ little things start agitating me and you start to hear cameras you don't hear usually.   It's just a sign that I'm just a little tired.   
   
 Q.   You're not that far off the lead, only a couple early of birdies tomorrow‑‑  
RORY McILROY:   The second is a birdie chance; the third is a birdie chance.   There is a chance for me to catch them.   But I just need to go back and rest up and try and put everything into tomorrow.   Because, you know, I'm only three behind.   It's not like I've shot myself out of it.   I need to get off to a good start tomorrow and hopefully put a bit of pressure on the guys above me.   
   
 Q.   Hard to get that fire in the belly with your energy levels so low?  
RORY McILROY:   I'm struggling to try and get anything going.   That will be the challenge for me tomorrow, to try to get myself up 100 per cent for it.   Hope I can give myself a real chance.   
It was nice to make birdie on 17 to get back to even and would have been nice to make a birdie at the last to shoot under par.   
But considering the way I've played and the way I felt out there, even par isn't that bad a score.   So I can take a few positives from it, whatever they are, and move on and hopefully‑‑ I'll need to shoot something similar to what I shot the first day if I want to try and win this.  
   
 Q.   A word on Alvaro, who in his own estimation does not thrive on this course, but certainly showing a good head out there.   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, he is, he's very solid.   He's hitting fairways and he's hitting greens, and he's giving himself a lot of opportunities and he's taken a few of them.   I don't think he made a bogey today.   
That's the sort of golf you need around here.   Especially I've never seen the course play as tough as this, with the longer rough and the greens as firm and as fast as they are.   That's why the scoring has not been as good as it's been in previous years, and the way he's playing at the minute, if he goes out and plays like that tomorrow, he'll be very tough to beat.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT