UBS HONG KONG OPEN
December 2, 2011
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MICHAEL GIBBONS:   Rory, thanks for joining us, I detect a slight disappointment in your finish but give us your verdict on the round today.   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, obviously it wasn't the way I wanted to finish.   I got myself into good position.   Hit it into the middle of the 13th fairway, and you know, looked like I could have had a good chance there to get to 10‑under par, and then to finish at 7 is a bit disappointing.   I hit a few loose shots coming in.   
It's something I'll have to try and eliminate tomorrow if I want to try and lead this golf tournament going into Sunday.   You know, still, it's not that‑‑ I'm still tied for the lead.   I'm in the same position I was last night, but I feel like I could have definitely shot a few better today.   But you know, if that's my worst round of the week, it's not too bad.   
   
 Q.   Where would you put that finish down to, is it a bit of mental fatigue do you think?   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, it could have been.   It could have been a bit of mental fatigue, a bit of physical fatigue.   
As I said, yesterday I don't feel as if I'm completely 100 per cent, so you know, you could put it down to that.   But I felt fine.   I was just a couple of loose‑‑ maybe a couple of tired swings toward the end.   
You know, I'll just have to try and make those as least common as possible for the next couple of days and obviously into the next week as well.   
I've just got to try and get through this weekend as best I can, and really give it everything.   Obviously try and win the tournament to give myself a chance going into next week, and then take it easy for the first few days of next week in Dubai and try and get myself in the best possible shape for Thursday.   
   
 Q.   You seem a bit downbeat and a bit run down even, maybe even more so than just two bogeys in the last three holes.   What sort of defines your mood now?   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I mean, I didn't feel as if I played as well today as I did yesterday for sure.   As I said, I'm not feeling quite myself.   I just have to, as I said, try to get plenty of rest in between rounds and just try and give it my all on the 18 holes that I do have to play every day.   
But, you know, it's been a learning experience for me these last ten weeks and knowing my capabilities and my limitations, and I feel like I'm sort of coming to the end of that.   I've just got to make sure that I have decent energy levels for the next two rounds I have to play at the weekend.   
   
 Q.   Is the season too long?   
RORY McILROY:   I don't think the season is too long.   I might have made the season too long for myself in a way.   
   
 Q.   Ever the diplomat.   
RORY McILROY:   It's not too long because we get to‑‑ we are in a privileged position.   We get to choose what tournaments we play in.   So it's not as if we are obligated to play tournaments.   
So I might have made it a little bit too long for myself this season, and it's something that I'll learn from going into the future.   
   
 Q.   Are you surprised 7‑under is leading the way, given the course has a history of giving up some quite low scores?   
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, I am pretty surprised, because you know, I feel like I give myself a target of trying to get to double figures today, and obviously it didn't quite get to that.   Nearly got there at 9.   
But still it's very tricky.   That wind does swirl about a lot in the trees.   The greens are a lot firmer and a lot faster than they have been in previous years, so that's going to make the course play a little bit more difficult, as well.   And the rough's actually a little bit longer, which I experienced today.   Felt like I was never out of it.   
Yeah, it's tough to control your ball out of the rough, especially to firm, fast greens, and that's why I think you see the scores aren't as low as they have been in previous years.   
   
 Q.   You said you have not been feeling 100 per cent.   Have you been having any extra treatment or is it just a matter of resting up?  
RORY McILROY:   It's a matter of resting up.   I had two weeks off in between the HSBC and the World Cup, and I got sick for a few days in that stretch.   So that sort of took a little bit of energy out of me.   I was on a drip for three days actually in the Maldives which wasn't too nice.   
Yeah, I think that's sort of still a little bit there, but I mean, just my energy levels.   It's the end of the season, I'm sure it's not just me that's feeling like this.   I'm sure a lot of guys are.   It's been a long season, and there's a couple more weeks left and we get to enjoy Christmas.   
   
 Q.   The second shot on 18, did you ever think about going for the green, or do you just want to play safe?   
RORY McILROY:   No, I didn't really have a shot to go for the green.   Maybe I the Rory of a couple of years ago might have went for it.   (Laughter).  
I feel as if I'm a little smarter and more experienced.   I give myself a good chance for par.   Left myself a good yardage and hit a good third shot in and unfortunately didn't make the putt.   No, it never really crossed my mind.   
MICHAEL GIBBONS:   Thank you for joining us.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT