WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 3, 2011
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. 2-under par out there today, how did it feel for you? 
 RORY McILROY: It felt okay, especially after the slow start. I feel as if I left a lot of shots out there. It could have been a lot lower but 70 isn't a disastrous start and something I can definitely build on.

 Q. We cruise around and we were saying in the commentary, the good players and great players as you are now, Major Champion, have this ability to turn it around close to the end. 
 RORY McILROY: I don't know, I think you just have to stay patient. You have to believe in yourself and trust in your abilities that you are going to hit good shots at some point during the round, and luckily for me I hit a few good ones coming in and was able to make a couple of birdies.

 Q. We have a golf course here that's nice and soft. Is this right up your street, Rory? 
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, it is, it definitely is. Big fairways, especially long; I feel as if I'm driving the ball really well, so if I can just take advantage of that over the next three days I feel as if I have a good chance.

 Q. How low can you go? 
 RORY McILROY: I've shot 63 here before, so I'm sure I could try and do the same. 

 Q. There's been a lot of chat in the media about your stable change, going from ISM to a new stable. Elaborate for us, please?
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, I feel as if I've been talking about this all week. I'm just -- to be honest, I feel as if I just needed a fresh view and I'm excited about the future now. The most important thing for me is to try and focus on winning golf tournaments and I feel like I'm able to do that. 
 It was okay. It was a bit scrappy on my front nine which is the back nine but started hitting some good shots on the way in. I gave myself chances, which is good. I felt like I was getting it up-and-down quite a lot. Just keeping myself in there. I was happy enough with how I played the back nine.

 Q. How hard is it to get yourself up after a big win? 
 RORY McILROY: Not too difficult. I mean, I've only had to do it once before from Quail Hollow to TPC and then I found it pretty difficult just because of the way I on, playing so well over the weekend.
 But no, it's fine. This is a huge event. It's a huge event anyway, but for me it's a big event in the course of the season just because I feel like if I can play well this week I can eat into Luke's lead a little bit. 

 Q. Is there any fatigue, because you've been on the road -- this is your fourth week?
 RORY McILROY: Not really. I still pretty fresh. I'll be the first to say I'm looking forward to two weeks off after this, but give it my best effort for the next three days and hopefully that's good enough.

 Q. What did you do for that two weeks off? 
 RORY McILROY: Going to go on holiday. 

 Q. Plaque pool? 
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, exactly, black pool, all the way back to the U.K. (laughing0.

 Q. What did you need to do this week to make it interesting for the Dubai World Championship?
 RORY McILROY: I need to win here and I need to win in Hong Kong to make it interesting. So that's what I'm trying to do. 

 Q. Hong Kong is one of your favourite courses, isn't it?
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, even if I win here and win Hong Kong, I think I'm still a hundred grand behind Luke. 

 Q. But well catchable?
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, Lee turned that around a couple of years ago on me. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT