ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 30, 2011
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   RORY McILROY: I played nicely. It was a very comfortable 67. I made a bogey on 17 but apart from that, it was all pretty solid. 

 Q. The start was picking up from where you left off yesterday, wasn't it? 
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, it's 5-under for my last 7 yesterday and 4-under my first five today. So I played -- that 19-hole stretch or whatever it is, 9-under. 
 So I had a good stretch there and went a little quiet around the turn but made two birdies on the two par 5s coming in. A little disappointed to make 5 on 17 but overall it was a decent day. 

 Q. Did you know that something was comfortable as a 67 was at Carnoustie --
 RORY McILROY: Not really, no. This is perfect conditions out there. You can't get it any better. That's why the scoring is obviously so low. 

 Q. Good day to play it yesterday?
 RORY McILROY: Great day to play it. I think there's a bit of rain in the forecast tomorrow, so the guys that get this course tomorrow might get it a little tougher than we did but still I don't think there's much wind forecast so I think it will still be fairly benign. 

 Q. How much are you looking forward to getting sort of back to the Old Course tomorrow and having the opportunity of playing it back-to-back? 
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, I can't wait. You know, I think the forecast is supposed to be decent tomorrow, just a little bit of rain. 
 So I think it will be decent scoring conditions again, and it's actually a course where I feel as if I can go low. I've done it before and if I can shoot something in the low to mid 60s, I'll give myself a great chance going into Sunday and give myself and my dad a great chance going into Sunday as well.

 Q. How is he playing?
 RORY McILROY: Great. Really good. He played brilliant yesterday when he needed to, though he didn't play well the first 11 holes. But he's been fantastic. He's been practising away at home, and I think he's hit more balls than I have the last few weeks. 
 He's really enjoying it and we are having a good time.

 Q. A lot of youngsters, Fleetwood and people like that?
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, Michael Hoey, obviously not so young anymore. Yeah, there's a lot of young guys coming, just turned pro, and this is a good event to do it, as I well know. A lot of money to play for, and it's good to see the guys. Me and G-Mac were talking about it today, about the guys coming up now.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT