BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
August 16, 2019
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Rory, I've been able to watch you play for two days now.  Appears to me you're a man that seems to be just gaining momentum and your best being golf is to come this weekend.
RORY MCILROY: That's how it feels.  I feel I haven't had my best stuff over the first few days.  I was able to put together a decent round yesterday and fight back today and play the last 7 holes, last 12 holes in 6-under par.  It's getting there.
Some better iron shots on the back-9.  Converted some putts and I'm in a decent position going into the weekend.
Q. We always talk about your driving, your distance.  You're 8 of 9 scrambling this week.
RORY MCILROY: Yeah.  I think with the greens being a little softer as well it's helped but, yeah, my short game -- if you look at my stats this year, it's the best I've ever been in short game stats and putting stats and so I think that's been a big reason why my consistency this year has been the way it has.
Q. For me, it's the most consistent that you've ever been.  Tell me about one shot, your second to the par 5.  Was that driver off the deck from 284?
RORY MCILROY: No.  No.  3-wood.  I've got a pretty strong one.  It's not that strong.  It's 15 degrees but I can get some pretty good numbers out of it.  It was just a 3-wood as hard as I could hit it up in the air and yeah, it was nice to hit that green in 2 and give myself a nice, easy two-putt birdie.
Q. Fun watching you play.  Expecting big things on the weekend.
RORY MCILROY: Thank you.
Q. Rory, nice round today.  Get some comments on your play.
RORY MCILROY: Yeah.  It was a pretty sketchy start.  You know, I only -- I think I had -- I hit 2 greens in the first 7 holes but was able the play those 7 holes in even par.  I was able to sort of right the ship a little bit.
You know, turned it under par with a nice birdie on 9.  Then I played a lot better on the back-9.  I hit some better iron shots, converted a few putts.  Got it up and down when I needed to.  Yeah, it was sort of like a tale of two halves I guess.
Q. What changed at the 7th hole in your game?
RORY MCILROY: Yeah.  Just sort of stuck in neutral there for a few holes.  I think that birdie on 7 just got me going a little bit and then especially the birdie on 9.  I think the way I played the front-9 to play it under par I thought was pretty good and then I guess that gives me a little bit of encouragement going into the back-9.
But I hit better shots.  I was a bit more committed to some of the shots I hit.  I hit a great 8-iron into 17 there and hit a lovely 9-iron into the last.  If I'm going to bed tonight thinking of something that I needed to do better going into the weekend, I just need to think of those two shots.
Q. Is there a noticeable wind change from yesterday?
RORY MCILROY: Yeah.  Yesterday was, I guess, out of the north, northwest and tonight it's ended up being southwest.  So, it's a little different.  The course playing differently.  Couple of the par-5s played a lot longer.  Yeah, I think the course played sort of similar to what it did yesterday.
The scoring is -- it's very low, very impressive.  I feel like I played as well as I could have.  Just the amount of people that are shooting -- you know, you have to get 8-under after 2 days in the Top 20, those low scores out there.  I can't imagine being any different going into the weekend.
Q. How much does a layout like this combined with the soft conditions benefit your style of play?
RORY MCILROY: I think it does.  You know, as I had said, I feel like I haven't had my best stuff this week but I'm still in there with a chance going into the weekend.  So, yeah, you know you can take it over some corners, the longer guys can definitely take advantage of some of those par-4s, couple of the longer par-5s I can reach in two that some guys can't.
Yeah.  I think as you said, with the soft conditions, just plays into those longer hitters' hands even more.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT