ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 2, 2011
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Rory, another good chance to win, you walk away and I think it's fair to say, you're disappointed?  
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, very. I had it going early on and I birdied 11 to get to 20-under par for the tournament, I thought I had a couple of decent chances coming in with 12, 14 and 18. I hit a good drive on 12 and didn't capitalise, and you know, was in a good position in two it on 14 and didn't capitalise. Missed a good chance on 15. And then I thought I had hit a really good shot into the last, just spun a bit too much and went back down.   
 You know, it's still a very good round of golf, but a very good weekend; and considering that I was 3-over par after 11 holes in this tournament, I've come back and I've played some really good golf, so it's nice.   
 Would have been great to get another win this year. That's what I'm really pushing for. I'm going to come up one short it looks like. It's disappointing but I've got a few more tournaments left this year to try to get a win or two.   
  
  Q. Just tell us what you're doing now for the rest of the season.   
 RORY McILROY: I'm flying to Korea tomorrow morning and playing the Korean Open, and the week after, I play an exhibition in China for seven days. And I go straight from China to Bermuda for the Grand Slam of Golf. Then I'm only in Bermuda for three days. And then I'm in Istanbul for four days watching some tennis. And then I'm in Shanghai for two weeks for two tournaments, and then I've got two weeks off, which will be nice. Then I'll spend those in the Middle East or I'll spend them somewhere. Then I've got the World Cup of Golf in China again, Hong Kong Open, Dubai World Championship and the Thai Golf Championship. I have a nice run of events coming up.   
  
  Q. You were saying there, it's all about winning isn't it, second prize --  
 RORY McILROY: It is. It's nice, it gets me a little closer to Luke and gives me a few more World Ranking points but the end of the day, I just want to win.  
  
  Q. Tough coming up one short.   
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, it is, exactly. Especially giving myself such a great chance coming down the last. If I had just nicked one or two over the last seven. But I played good golf coming in and that's all you can really do.   
 I'm disappointed and I'm sure it will be a long flight to Korea in the morning thinking about it.   
  
  Q. The fair competitor in you would in some ways be pleased for Michael, too.   
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, it's great to see -- like I wanted to win, but to me, I don't care who wins now because I'm not. It's tough for me but it's still another good finish. I've been very consistent, which is a good thing, but I want to get wins and that's the most important thing.  
  
  Q. Looking like the Northern Irish Open for a while, wasn't it.   
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, looks like it's going to be one, two, three. Yeah, it's good to see all of us boys up there. Just obviously disappointed it wasn't me that's lifting the trophy.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT