WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 6, 2011
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. 5-under par and five behind with three to go, needed something to happen and got it. How do you feel about your day?
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, it was good. I gave myself a lot of nice chances on the front nine and didn't convert that much, but holed a few really nice par putts, which was a good sign. Yeah, bogeyed 10 to go back to even for the day and then picked a couple of shots up straight after that. 
 And then when I bogeyed 15, I picked up two shots on 16 and 17. So it was a good day, and 67 was a good score. It would have been nice to hole the putt on the last for birdie, but I'm in a decent position going into tomorrow.

 Q. How do you guys do that? You make a bogey and immediately bounce back and make two birdies both times. 
 RORY McILROY: It just gives you a bit of a kick up the backside, you've got to get going here. Yeah, it wasn't a good bogey on 10, and then to respond with two birdies on 11 and 12 was great, and then to do the same thing on 16 and 17, it's just a nice way to do it. It gives you a bit of momentum going into tomorrow. 

 Q. How do you feel about tomorrow, the congested leaderboard that we're seeing? Obviously you're three shots behind as we speak, but we don't know what's going to happen in terms of the number of guys ahead of you. 
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, exactly. Hopefully the guys coming in don't get too far ahead. If I'm three or even four behind going into tomorrow, hopefully I can get off to a good start and give myself some chances. I feel as if I can have a good start and get myself right into the mix. 

 Q. Judge that one for you, a few shots left out there but better?
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, definitely better. I holed a few really nice par putts out there and holed a few putts for birdie, as well. It would have been great to hole that putt at the last for birdie from eight feet or whatever it was, but didn't quite make it. I'm three behind at the minute, might be a little bit more going into tomorrow, but at least I give myself a shot going into the final day.

 Q. You still fancy your places, playing well, it's just everything has to click?
 RORY McILROY: Exactly. Even if it doesn't click tomorrow, at least if it clicks next week, I'll be happy. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT