WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 5, 2011
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You finished with a birdie. 
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, it was nice to finish with a birdie. 

 Q. They weren't dropping today?
 RORY McILROY: No, not until the end. I holed a nice par putt on 17. I hit a lot of really good putts, a few I misread, but I gave myself so many chances yesterday and today. Tee to green I'm very happy with where it is. It's just -- it's not even -- like I'm hitting good putts, maybe just a little bit of speed or maybe just not quite reading the line right. I got J.P. in to read a few, and that helped a little bit. But a lot of positives to take into the weekend. 
 I mean, I feel really frustrated, but I'm only four off the lead at the end of the day. It's so bunched, that's nothing, really. 

 Q. No one seems to be getting away today. 
 RORY McILROY: No, I was quite surprised because I didn't feel as if it was any more difficult than it was yesterday. I mean, the course might have firmed up a little bit, but there's still -- I mean, there's no wind at all. There is good scores out there.

 Q. I think Luke expressed his frustration saying that he felt he was playing well enough to be leading the championship and the putts weren't dropping for him, either. 
 RORY McILROY: And that's surprising for Luke because he's probably the best putter in the game at the minute. If he's struggling, I don't feel so bad.

 Q. Is it the grass type?
 RORY McILROY: There's actually a bit of poa in these greens which makes it sneak a little bit, especially towards the end of the day. And they're a little -- they're still good enough that if you hit it on line, it should go in. If I keep giving myself chances, there's definitely a low one in there.

 Q. Usually you play well at the start of the round, tail off a little bit, so obviously next week are you doing anything to sort of --
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, I always have one eye on next week and just making sure that everything -- I've said this every day this week, that it would be great to get into contention and be great to have a chance to win this weekend. I mean, it's hard to really treat this as a preparation tournament because it's such a big event, you know. I'm not really doing anything different, I'm just trying to treat it like another event.

 Q. The way you sort of went in fresh to the Masters --
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, but it's going to -- it hasn't hurt me the last couple years. It's just this part of the season that gets quite condensed that you've just got to -- you don't have to, but it's one of my favorite golf courses.

 Q. Obviously pleased, though, I would have thought with the PGA next week and your position here this weekend?
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, definitely. I'm very happy with where my game is heading into next week. I'm very happy with where it is heading into the weekend. Just do a bit of work on my putting tonight and hopefully come out tomorrow and have a few drop and I could see myself shooting something quite low.

 Q. A lot of young guys at the top of the leaderboard. Is it fun to have your peers right at the top with you?
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, it's good to see Rickie up there. He's been playing some great golf, played really good at the Open, still looking for his first win, so it would be good to see him try and have a chance at least to get that first win under his belt. 
 Jason Day is up there again, seems to play well at the big tournaments all the time. Yeah, Adam has played well, and Keegan Bradley, as well, another good one. Yeah, it's good to see those guys up there.

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, it's fantastic. It's nice to be a part of a major champions' group. It feels pretty cool, yeah. That'll be a nice couple of days especially. I know Darren very well, and I've gotten to know Charl well over the past few years, so it'll be a nice threesome.

 Q. Have you played Atlanta Athletic Club?
 RORY McILROY: Not at all. Not at all.

 Q. It's just one of those old traditional, long courses. It should suit you?
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, it should do. I think the thing that's different is it's Bermuda, maybe a little trickier around the greens, so maybe a bit more time spent around the greens next week trying to get used to that.

 Q. Played any golf in Atlanta?
 RORY McILROY: No. I mean, Georgia, obviously, at Augusta.

 Q. Will the temperature be an issue for you?
 RORY McILROY: I feel okay. I usually play decent in Asia. I played Malaysia at the start of -- after the Masters, and that's similar heat. It's tough. I mean, my hands actually sweat quite a lot, so it's a matter of keeping like a really cool towel around your bag and putting it around your neck and just making sure that you're trying --

 Q. Any special drinks out there?
 RORY McILROY: Not particularly. We can either drink -- you can drink a sports drink like a Gatorade or Powerade that's got electrolytes in it, or I take these little tablets called Highlights, so it doesn't have any of the sugar, it just has what you need. So if it's really hot, I take one or two of those a round and it's like a tablet you take with your water. It's just your salts and stuff, you lose so much salt through your sweat. But we're not running around for three hours out there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT