PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 11, 2011
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Talk us through your thinking on the second shot; we were surprised, it looked dangerous.   
 RORY McILROY: It was dangerous. Yeah, I mean, I think maybe -- the tree was maybe a foot in front of -- (indiscernible) -- and I thought if I could make contact with the ball and just let the club go, I might get away with it, and you know, in hindsight it would have been better to chip out sideways. I still made five.   
 Yeah, it was a shot that I felt like, if I took it on and pulled it off, it could have saved me a shot.   
 But yeah, I've obviously, you know, went through impact and held on to the club too long. Yeah, jarred my right wrist and my right forearm, and it was very -- obviously very painful after that.  
  
  Q. Can you describe what you felt in your wrist, how much pain and how much discomfort?   
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, just through that shot, it was just like a sharp pain up the forearm, and then there's a little bit of swelling, just on the inside of my wrist. And then it was going up into my elbow and my shoulder. So just going to go and get an MRI now and just see if there's no damage to it.   
  
  Q. In other words -- were you concerned going around that you wouldn't injure yourself anymore?  
 RORY McILROY: They said is it's your decision; if you want to play on and you feel comfortable doing that, but if not, there's no point in risking it.   
 It's the last major of the year. I've got, what, six or seven months to the Masters. So I might as well try and play through the pain and get it over and done with.   
  
  Q. In the circumstances, how good was the 70?  
 RORY McILROY: To be honest, that I finished with one hand, I hit some good shots. The only thing that let me down, I missed a couple of short putts. But it was always there in my mind. So to shoot even par, it was a good effort.   
  
  Q. How difficult was it to continue, and if it's the same tomorrow, would you play?   
 RORY McILROY: If it's the same tomorrow, and I know that I'm not going to do anymore damage to it, I'll play. There's a couple of points where I thought about not continuing.   
 But as I said, it's a very important tournament, and I'm still -- I'm still even par. I'm still in the hunt. So we'll see what the results are tonight, and if I can strap it up and play again tomorrow, I will.   
  
  Q. How bad is the pain right now, and what did they tell you medically in terms of the injury?   
 RORY McILROY: Right now it's okay. It's just swollen a little bit in the swollen area. It's basically when I go through impact and try and -- my right arm, they reckon I've just caught the nerve in between the two bones, and every time I went through a shot, I just -- I was in a lot of pain. But right now it's okay. It's just going through impact, it hurts a little bit.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible).   
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, we'll see. We'll see and see in an hour's time.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT