ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL
March 3, 2021
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Welcome back to the Arnold Palmer Invitational presented by Mastercard.  As a past champion and with your feelings toward Mr. Palmer, I know this tournament means a lot.  Can we just get some comments?
 RORY MCILROY:   Yeah, I first played this event back in 2015, which I probably should have played it sooner, but I just never was able to get the chance to or have the chance to.  So I said in 2015, when I first played, that I'll try to never miss it again, so I've kept my word, up until this point, I'm back again.
 And it's been a wonderful course for me, I played well here in the past, it's nice to be a past champion and looking forward to another great week here in Orlando.
 Q. You're one of five consecutive international winners at this event.  Anything that you can point to for the reason for that success by you guys?
 RORY MCILROY:   I don't think so.  I don't think there's any -- I don't think this course suits Internationals more than anyone else.  I honestly just think that more internationals play in this event than most other PGA TOUR events.
 And these things go in cycles and I wouldn't look too much into it.  But, yeah, it is interesting that a lot of internationals have won here the last few years.
 Q. And the state of your game coming into the week?
 RORY MCILROY:   I'm feeling a little better about it.  I didn't have a great week at Riviera a couple weeks ago, but then had a bit of a better week last week at the Concession.  Still trying to iron out a couple of things that I feel like I can do better.
 But I saw some positive signs last week, so, and always coming back to a course where you've had some good memories and that always helps too when you sort of feel a little bit better about yourself.  So, yeah, you know, I finished decent last week and hopefully can build on that this week.
 Q. As a look ahead to next week, do you almost feel like -- well you have almost been sitting on the, as the defending champion, for two years at THE PLAYERS.  Just talk a little bit about that and how excited you are to get going there next week?
 RORY MCILROY:   Yeah, it's always cool to defend a title.  We get to do it a little bit, if you're lucky enough to win some tournaments.  But it's always nice to get into that position to defend a title.
 And I was looking forward to doing it last year and it obviously got cut short.  So looking forward to getting back up there to Sawgrass next week, but I've got my full attention this week here at Bay Hill and then I'll turn my attention to there.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT