VOLVO WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
May 21, 2011
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Made a fight out of it.  
 RORY McILROY: I missed five chances from the middle of the round, which really cost me, and that was it.   
  
  Q. Was it fun taking on McDowell?  
 RORY McILROY: Not really; I lost. It was good. It was a great battle. We both played very good golf, and I didn't feel as if I gave him any holes, and he was just very hard to beat. I think he was 7- or 8-under on his own ball, so it was a good standard.  
  
  Q. Very frustrated in the middle?  
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, I just couldn't get a putt to go in I felt as if I had -- I held a nice putt on 9. The putt on 7 was a big breaker, which wasn't great. I didn't hit a great putt on 8.   
 10, I had a great chance. 11, I felt as if I had a pretty good putt that. Was probably the only one. 12, I hit it in close and didn't make that, as well. I was getting very frustrated. But you know, when you are playing against someone of that calibre, you need to take your chances, and I just wasn't able to do that today.   
  
  Q. You were making him put a few little ones, did you?  
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, you can't really give anyone anything.   
  
  Q. What was the atmosphere like between you? Was it unusual, because you're such great friends?   
 RORY McILROY: You know, I wasn't going to really engage in any conversation, and that was the plan from the start. It looked like he had the same plan, as well. So just played him as if I was playing anyone else.   
  
  Q. A couple of early on, there was a lot of --  
 RORY McILROY: Of course, yeah, or you make him putt a little one, or you say something. It was very --  
  
  Q. Business?   
 RORY McILROY: Of course.   
  
  Q. Felt okay up to today?   
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, it feels okay. It's still a work-in-progress. Working on a few things. Just when you miss a couple in a row, then you sort of start thinking about it a bit. It was good. I held a good putt on 13, and then held a great one on 15, as well. It's not as if I've been putting badly. I just missed a few chances in the middle of the round which didn't help me.  
  
  Q. Enough to go and get it -- 11 or 12?   
 RORY McILROY: No, went straight into the bush.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT