WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 6, 2011
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Can you just talk about the different feeling you had this week and how you thought your game was?  
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, I mean, I struggled -- yesterday I struggled with my ball-striking. I actually hit it a bit better today. Gave myself a lot of opportunities, just wasn't able to take them. Made a couple of good birdies on 10 and 11 and gave that shot back straight away on 12, missed a short putt. Then didn't take advantage of my second shot into 14, which was disappointing. That was really it. I was trying my best to birdie two of the last -- I birdied 15, which was good, and trying my best to birdie -- probably needed two of the last three. It was a great effort on 16, I just missed for birdie, and then 17 I was just half a club out and left myself a tricky putt.  
 Yeah, I mean, I'm disappointed to come back here after all that happened last year and wanted to be here for the weekend. But that's golf, and I'll go home and I'll do some hard practice over the next ten days and try and get ready for the next event.  
  
  Q. Were you thinking about the fact that you made it on the number last year?  
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, definitely. I know better than most people that you just have to be around on the weekend to be able to make something happen. I was just trying to get in there, trying to get to the weekend, but unfortunately I just wasn't able to do that.  
  
  Q. The one on 16, was that --  
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, I mean, what was it, 30 feet?   
  
  Q. 40, I think.   
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, I mean, hit a great putt there, looked in the whole way. Just caught the left edge of the hole and didn't drop. 17, again, it was a tough first putt, I just left it a little short, and I hit a really good putt, hit it left edge, and it stayed there. It wasn't as if I hit a bad putt there. Basically I needed to hole my second shot on the last to have any chance, and I went for the pin and just came up a bit short in the creek. Obviously not what I wanted.  
  
  Q. You probably heard Seve is in fairly grave condition. I was wondering if you could share some of your recollections.   
 RORY McILROY: I'm probably a little young to remember him that well. I've received a couple of really nice letters from him over the past couple of years. He was European golf, you know? You know, to see him -- he's been very ill for a while now. It's nearly been three years. It's terrible to see him worsen. I'm not sure how long he's got left or whatever, but I'm sure everyone's thoughts and prayers are with him and his family at this point, and it'll be a sad day whenever he loses his battle.   
  
  Q. What was it like not having really known Seve as some of the others did but to hear his voice in the room?   
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, you could still feel his passion and his verve, not just for the Ryder Cup but for golf. He was a huge -- he was very loyal to the European Tour and to Europe. You could still feel his passion for the game. Yeah, it was a very special phone call that Monday or Tuesday night at Celtic Manor. Yeah, I think all the guys got a great kick out of that.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT