WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 11, 2011
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   RORY McILROY: I made a couple of nice ones. I played very solidly. Only missed a couple of greens, and you know it was a nice bogey-free round. It was pretty good. 

 Q. Could have been a lot better even. 
 RORY McILROY: I missed a couple of 6-footers on a couple of the par 5s but apart from that, it was okay. 

 Q. Did you go to the basketball last night?
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, the basketball was good. I got there just at the end of the first quarter. It was a good game. It was tight at the end. It was good. 

 Q. How is your toe?
 RORY McILROY: Sore. It's sore. But it's fine. 

 Q. Will you lose a nail?
 RORY McILROY: I will lose a nail, yeah.

 Q. Have they given it an injection?
 RORY McILROY: Just ice it. 

 Q. How did it happen, 50-pound dumbbell? 
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, I was just putting it back on the rack, and it just slipped off and just hit the big toe. 

 Q. Who had been using it? 
 RORY McILROY: (Laughter). Very funny. 

 Q. Fair to say that it hurt?
 RORY McILROY: It did. It dropped and I looked around first to see if anyone saw me. (Laughter) it was pretty sore but it's okay. I iced it again last night but doesn't feel too bad this morning. Feels a little stiff. 

 Q. No swelling?
 RORY McILROY: No. It's just a bit bruised. 22 kilos. Right toe. 

 Q. If it were to blow, wouldn't be your favorite weather --
 RORY McILROY: No, I enjoyed it the way it was yesterday, nice and calm and you can hit your shots. But yeah, hey, it is what it is. I had some -- I hit two really good shots into the 7th today into the wind. It's Florida. You're always going to get a bit of wind. You expect it. 

 Q. What did you hit for your second? 
 RORY McILROY: 5-iron. 

 Q. How far was that?
 RORY McILROY: 179 yards. 

 Q. Who else was at the game last night quote from Graeme: Lil Wayne, Snoop Dog, Busta Rhymes and Rory McIlroy. 
 RORY McILROY: Khloe and Kourtney Kardashian. Who else was there -- Snoop was there. Wholes was there, Reggie Bush there? 

 Q. Do you know any of those people? Do you know Snoop Dog?
 RORY McILROY: No, I know of him. I enjoy his music. (Laughter). There was a lot of guys there. 
 Dustin Johnson was just to the right of us and Poulter was up in the Marquis Jets guys. Yeah, it was good. It was a bit of a rush to get off the course, but once we were there, we enjoyed it. 

 Q. Whatever American sports you've taken to, is this the top of your list?
 RORY McILROY: That and football. That and football are the big two. I watched the Hard Knocks documentary on the Jets last year, before the season. So sort of followed them the season past, and I think that's probably my eighth or ninth game I went to. So I sort of follow them a bit. 

 Q. Are you aware of the Jets rivalry with the team that actually plays here, the Dolphins?
 RORY McILROY: Not really. Not really. 

 Q. They are not going to be happy that you are a Jets fan?
 RORY McILROY: That's fine. I'm a Heat fan. I'll be okay. 

 Q. Happy with where you're placed in the tournament as well?
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, I'm only three back at the minute. The conditions are not getting any easier, and the guys, we were lucky to be able to play 15 holes yesterday, and only had to play three holes of the first round in these conditions. 
 So it's nice to get in and we'll see what happens. 

 Q. Curious how you played the 8th?
 RORY McILROY: I drove it into the left rough so I had to lay up. I laid it up and had 75 yards. I hit a lob-wedge and just sort of pitched on the front of the green and stopped and left it about 15 feet.

 Q. How difficult was it with the wind blowing right at your back?
 RORY McILROY: It's tough. We lose little shots, as well. You can't get any flight on it, so it just knocks it straight down so it's sort of hard to judge it. I thought I played it pretty well. The wind just knocked it down a little bit and it pitched down to the front of the green and just stopped dead. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT