MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2011
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
   
  Q. How do you describe how you're feeling?  
 RORY McILROY: I'm very disappointed. You know, I was leading this golf tournament with nine holes to go, and I just unraveled. Hit a bad tee shot on 10, and then never, never really recovered. You know, it's going to be hard to take for a few days, but I'll get over it. I'm fine. A couple of pretty good friends were in a similar position to me last year in Dustin Johnson and Nick Watney.   
 I knew it was going to be very tough for me out there today, and it was. I felt good that I hung in well for the first nine holes, and then as I said, just sort of lost my speed on the greens, lost my line, lost everything for just two, three holes, 10, 11, 12, and couldn't really recover after that.  
  
  Q. If you could pinpoint, what was the turning point, because you seemed rock steady.   
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, probably the tee shot on 10. I felt comfortable on that tee shot all week, and for some reason I just started it a little left of where I wanted to, hit that tree, and I don't think anyone's been over there in those cabins before (laughing). Yeah, the 7 on 10 just sort of derailed me a little bit and it was hard to get back.  
  
  Q. There was an image of you on 13 tee after you hit the ball left where you just sort of dropped your head. As honest as you can be, what's going through your mind at that moment?   
 RORY McILROY: What was I at that point, 5-under par? I'd sort of realized -- unless I birdied my way in, I realized I didn't have a chance. I was trying my hardest, but if I had have birdied 13, tried to birdie 14, birdied 15, birdied my way in, but once I hit that tee shot left on 13, I realized that was it.   
  
  Q. What will you learn from today?  
 RORY McILROY: I think it's a Sunday at a major, what it can do. This is my first experience at it, and hopefully the next time I'm in this position I'll be able to handle it a little better. I didn't handle it particularly well today obviously, but it was a character building day, put it that way. I'll come out stronger for it.   
  
  Q. In the morning leading into the round, how were you?  
 RORY McILROY: I was fine. I was confident. I hit the ball well on the range. You know, I can't really -- actually I played okay the front nine. A couple of putts didn't drop, but I hung in there, I had a one-shot lead going down 10. And when you have a one-shot lead going into the back nine of the Masters, you can't be doing that much wrong.  
  
  Q. When you were standing between those cabins, what were you thinking then?  
 RORY McILROY: I was just trying to chip it out, trying to get it somewhere around the green and up-and-down it for bogey. I thought bogey was the best I could do, and I just hit it in a pretty tricky spot for my third shot. Just tried to be a little too cute with the fourth and hit the tree and ricocheted and came back on it. One of those things.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT