TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 23, 2019
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Rory, even par. The delay came, and you finished 3 under after that. Was that a big change for you?  
RORY MCILROY: It was. When I got in there, the first thing I saw was another topless photo of Phil Mickelson, so that made my day. And then -- yeah, it was good. I needed it. I was sort of stuck in neutral. Then when I made that birdie on the 12th hole, I got going from there, and then a fast finish. Birdieing the last two holes was nice.   
 Q.  How much tougher was this golf course today? No one was making it, except for Chez Reavie with a hole-in-one at 6 under.  
RORY MCILROY: I think it played pretty similar to yesterday. You don't hit fairways, and with this Bermuda rough, you have no control of your golf ball. You're sort of guessing whether it's going to fly or whether it's going to come out soft. So you need your scrambling boots on this week, and I scrambled well, and I think I only made two bogeys over the first 36 holes, which is a big key to doing well around here.   
 Q.  Rory, when you finish, when you close out the round in such impressive fashion, two straight birdies there, how much momentum does that give you surging into it?  
RORY MCILROY: Yeah, it does. It was great to finish with those two great birdies. I got lucky on 18. I didn't hit a very good drive, and then I had -- I shot to get it up near the green with my second, and then once I hit that, I had a great lie for my third, and I just sort of rode my luck the whole way along that hole.   
Yeah, sort of being three or four behind those guys for the most part of the day and then to catch J.T. and only be one back of Brooks, you know, it was nice to finish the way I did.   
 Q.  When you finish like that, do you think it sends out a message to other players as well?  
RORY MCILROY: I don't know. I mean, if the guys are thinking the same as me, no, because you're just trying to concentrate on what you're doing. For me, I've shot two good scores the first two days. I'm 7 under par, which I think will be tied for the lowest two rounds at this point. So I've played good golf, and I just need to keep doing what I've been doing.   
 Q.  Rory, you mentioned just how different the feeling was coming in with this system change. As you've gone into a couple of rounds now, does it feel like a normal tournament to you at this point?  
RORY MCILROY: Yeah, it does. It feels totally normal. It feels like a normal TOUR Championship. If you play well, you're in those last groups every day. Yeah, it does feel normal. I think after the sort of start yesterday and sort of seeing where everyone ended up after day one, today felt just like the second round of a golf tournament, and most of the guys shot very low first rounds.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT