ABU DHABI HSBC GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 23, 2011
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  RORY McILROY: Yeah, very happy, after the first couple of holes today I was just trying to consolidate second place, that's all you're really playing for. Martin played great all week and I don't think there was anyone in the world who could have topped him this week. I'm happy, first event and to finish second.   
 We had a really good time out there, a lot of fun. We both played -- Martin played very, very solid. I played pretty good on the back nine. So yeah, it was a good day.   
  
  Q. How do you reflect on the week?  
 RORY McILROY: Very good week. You know, a lot of progress was made from where I was last week in it Dubai with my practise. And coming into this week, finishing 16-under on this golf course and finishing second in this tournament is a pretty good achievement.   
 So I'm happy, I'm happy with the week. If anything, I could have put a little bit of pressure on Martin early on, but you know, when you goes out and he shoots 66, not much you can do about that.   
  
  Q. Did you feel the game was off in the early stages after two birdies, but two bogeys, as well?  
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, I mean, after the fifth hole, whenever I made bogey, I was just trying to play for second. I was just trying to consolidate second place. I was able to do that and it was nice and a nice start to the season.  
  
  Q. Is that difficult to do, or should you be more aggressive chasing somebody down?  
 RORY McILROY: Not really. I knew I was going to have a hard time to catch him. Second is pretty good this week considering where I was last week, so I'm happy.  
  
  Q. Your thoughts on the man that has won?   
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, just incredible, up to world No. 2, and deservedly so. He's playing some great golf at the minute, and he was in total control of his golf ball out there today. Didn't make a bogey. I think he's only made one bogey all week. It was very impressive.  
  
  Q. Impressive demeanor out there, as well, going about his business in the way he does.   
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, just goes about his business and just gets on with it yeah. Very impressive. He's a class act, he really is.   
  
  Q. You've touched on this, but is it a good foundation for the season?  
 RORY McILROY: Oh, big time. It's a great starting point. Finishing second in a great tournament like this with a great field, it's a huge positive, and hopefully I can just keep progressing and get my game where I want it to be going into the rest of the season.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT