ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 8, 2010
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   RORY McILROY: I thought the conditions were very tough today, especially around the middle of the golf course. I thought I played the back nine really well. I thought shooting even par was a good effort. Didn't make the most of the downwind holes, which was pretty disappointing. But enjoyed myself out there today which is all you can ask.
 The birdie up-and-down on 17 and at the last, that's given me a good chance to go to tomorrow with hopefully a little better weather at Carnoustie and hopefully shoot a good score and get myself back in it somewhat. I know John Parry is a long way ahead, but apart from that, I feel like I've still got a shot. 

 Q. Do you have fond memories?
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, great memories. I don't know if you can draw upon them this week. I was trying to remember all of the good times around here at The Open this year, just because you're into it a little bit more, it's a major. This, it's a great week and a fun week being out here with my dad. That's the main thing, as long as we enjoy the game, that's one of the main things. 

 Q. Did you have an early sense that it wasn't going to be a great day? 
 RORY McILROY: Not really. I suppose I had two good shots into the first two, but then missed, but you can't really say from that, it was going to be a bad day. It wasn't that bad of a day either. This was pretty tough out there. There's been a couple of good scores but apart from that, everyone has been around one, 2-under par. 
 6, I hit my drive too far right. Because of the wind you're taking the tight line and I pushed it into the bushes and hit a good second drive, but you know, missed about a 12-footer for bogey. So wasn't great. But they are the holes you sort of need to take advantage of. The downwind holes that you can really make a score on, I just wasn't able to do that. 

 Q. Can you talk about John Parry, what you know about him?
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, obviously got his first win a couple weeks ago in France. I watched on Sunday and he was a good mate of mine going up in the amateur days. Played the Walker Cup with him, and a great player. It's taken him maybe a little longer to develop than some of the other guys, but he's got a win under his belt and he obviously has become a lot more comfortable out in this environment, which is great and it's great to see him play so well.

 Q. Did you always expect that he would --
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, he's got a really solid game, swings it well, hits it nicely. You've got to make some putts to do what he's done. 
 Yeah, he's a very, very solid player. Of the Walker Cup guys, you would have reckoned three would have been one that he was going to do very well, and obviously he has this year. 

 Q. Three years ago?
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, it is. He had a great time, as well, to win in Austria. He had a great two rounds and had a bit of a dodgy Saturday but came back well and shot a good one on Sunday. He's been playing well for a while now and it's great to see that he's keeping it going. 

 Q. 17?
 RORY McILROY: It was one of those shots that was either going to finish up on the first green or do that, so, yeah, the Shot of the Month was followed by the worst of the month. But you know what he said before he hit it? He said imagine hitting it out-of-bounds there. 

 Q. Was it your only option? 
 RORY McILROY: Probably to get it close -- probably wasn't my only option, but hey, may as well. 

 Q. Would you have done it in The Open Championship? 
 RORY McILROY: Probably not. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT