DUBAI WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY DP WORLD
November 28, 2010
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  Fourth Round 67. 12-Under. 276 Total.  
   
  Q. Eagle on the last, tell us about that one from your point of view?  
 RORY McILROY: It was great. Yeah, I mean, I hit two great shots into the green there, not too dissimilar to the two shots I hit in yesterday. Just left myself a bit of an easier putt.   
 Yeah, great to finish off like that. I got off to a good start today and just didn't really take advantage of it. Missed a few putts around the turn and really could have got it going today.   
 But came back well and played the last few holes 4-under.  
  
  Q. Signs of encouragement going into the new season with the new changes you've been making?   
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, definitely, I'm feeling much more comfortable shaping it both ways, and as you've seen with the shot at the last I'm capable of doing it.   
 So, yeah, I just need to do a little bit of work in the off-season and hopefully come back and get ready to go for Abu Dhabi.   
  
  Q. The eagle on 18, final of the season, what can you tell us about your personal opinion on your season, 2010?   
 RORY McILROY: It's been okay. I mean, looking back on the year, I'll probably be a little disappointed, but that's natural, and you know, that's golf. You've got to try and keep improving and getting better. I think I'm definitely on the right track. I've played well the last three weeks that I've played, and got one more event left over in L.A. to play, and, you know, I'll have five or six weeks off to try to work at it and come back fresh and better for the new season.   
  
  Q. 2010 season, okay, victory in the United States, Ryder Cup victory, what can we expect in 2011?  
 RORY McILROY: Hopefully better. There's been parts of it that are very good, but just the consistency wasn't there. You know, I showed a little bit of consistency these last few weeks finishing fifth in China and second in Hong Kong and looks like I might get a Top-5 here, as well.   
 So, encouraging signs and looking forward to getting a few weeks off and coming back for the new year.   
  
  Q. What sort of day did you have?   
 RORY McILROY: It was like the first third was great, first six holes were great. Middle six holes weren't so good. Sort of started getting mad at myself a little bit. And then just freed up at the end and played some really good golf.   
 Yeah, it was a good day. I set myself a target to go 10-under par for the weekend and I went one better than that. So I can't really be too disappointed about that.   
  
  Q. You charged very hard this weekend and when you do that, you kind of put pressure on all elements of your game to be perfect, but on 9, you had a 4-footer which would have changed everything and you would have gotten within one of the lead?  
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, and I bogeyed the next. Those were the two holes which really didn't go my way. But I played well at the end. Made a good up-and-down on 12, birdied 14, birdied 16 and eagled the last.   
 But yeah, I t was disappointing not to take advantage of the great start that I had.  
  
  Q. You had a great midseason victory in America, which was so celebrated, you finished the season consistently but with some swing changes that need to bed in; what's your reflection on what you've done this year and what's ahead with the swing changes that are bedding in now?  
 RORY McILROY: The swing feels good. It feels all right. I'm getting more comfortable shaping it both ways again which is a good thing.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT