UBS HONG KONG OPEN
November 17, 2010
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You're an old hand at this place, aren't you?   
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, I mean, I've been coming here now for five or six years. You know, this is my fourth Hong Kong Open. I've came close the last couple of years. This is a course I really enjoy and a course that I've obviously done well on.  
  
  Q. I take it it's one you always pencil into the calendar?  
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, definitely. It's one of the ones that I look at at the start of the year and try and make my schedule that I can go and play it.   
 Yeah, I mean, it's one of my favourite weeks of the year. I love coming here, and it would be nice to get that win here that's so far alluded me.   
  
  Q. It's probably difficult to putt into a nutshell just what makes this so good, but what is it that appeals?   
 RORY McILROY: I don't know. Obviously I've got great memories from this place. You know, playing a couple of times as a junior here with the likes of Oli Fisher and guys that I grew up with; and you know, coming so close -- coming so close the last couple of years, I've just got fond memories of the place.   
 You know, we stay in the city and we have a good time. It's one of the best weeks of the year.  
  
  Q. And it is the all-around package, not just the golf and the memory of the golf?  
 RORY McILROY: No, the golf's great. UBS have been sponsoring it now for a while, and they put on a great show. They look after us really well. You know, they are taking us to the races tonight at Happy Valley. It's great, and it's a very, you know, social week with the business part being the golf.   
 Yeah, it's great. I don't think I'm speaking for myself; I think everyone that comes here really enjoys themselves and wants to come back.  
  
  Q. And I gather you even get to feed dragons with big golf balls?  
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, it was a bit surreal. Usually they feed them lettuce. But because of what's going on, they thought they would be a little bit different and feed them golf balls.  
  
  Q. And yet that in its way is good fun?  
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, it is, and it's tradition, as well. Nice to get a little bit of the Hong Kong culture, as well. So, yeah, I mean, it's been a great week so far and just can't wait for the tournament to get started. I've played 27 holes for practise there, so I'm ready to go.  
  
  Q. Well, you have your Jumeirah hat on and I can't see the hair in all its glory, but do tell.   
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, I'm actually going to get more. There's not enough blond. Whenever I get home after L.A., I'm going to go and put more blond in it.   
 Yeah, it's something different. You go home to Northern Ireland in the middle of November, you get pretty bored. So I just thought it would be a good laugh.   
  
  Q. Any particular reason why this style?   
 RORY McILROY: No.   
  
  Q. I did use the word "style".   
 RORY McILROY: Thanks. Yeah, just what I wanted to do. Just something different. They say blonds have more fun, so we'll see if that can work this week.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT