WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 7, 2010
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  Fourth Round 67 (-8) 280 Total.  
  
 RORY McILROY: Played nicely. It had sort of been coming. I had shown signs of it this week, but never got the momentum. But three birdies today, sort of got something going and 5-under was a nice way to start. Just a pity I couldn't keep it going around the turn.   
 But finished off quite well. Would have been nice to birdie the last, but hit it in the water and had to get up-and-down for par. Yeah, 5-under is a nice way to end the week.  
  
  Q. A few echoes of last year here in the way that you finished?  
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, just not as low, obviously. Yeah, I think I got off to the exact same start as last year, three birdies in a row and I think I shot 6-under that front nine. It's a golf course I really like and a golf course that suits me, suits my game and it's tough. You've got to hit it well and you've just got to look at the two boys on top of the leaderboard. They are the best out there in terms of ball-striking.  
 So it's guys that hit it well.   
  
  Q. You're going to leave here with a lot of positives from this week, aren't you?  
 RORY McILROY: Definitely. I definitely feel as if I'm on the right track. It's still not completely there. It's not where I would like it to be. But it's getting close. I mean, it's 75,80 per cent. It's just that little bit more that I need to do and work on. But the thing I'm really happy with this week is my short game; my putting, my chipping, everything, to keep myself in there is fantastic. Those 71s the first few days could have been 75s so I'm really happy with that.  
  
  Q. Is it a technical thing you're trying to work on?   
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, technical.  
  
  Q. Something you're trying to change or introduce?  
 RORY McILROY: Trying to get back to. I just got into a couple of bad habits. I was swinging my best around the time of The Open this year. French Open had a great swing, as well. At The Open was hitting it great and swinging it well. I'm just trying to get back to swinging the way I was then. Not really changing anything, but just trying to get it back to how it felt and how it looked in July.  
  
  Q. Can you talk us through the three birdies?  
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, I actually pitched -- I hit a driver off the tee at the first. Pitched my pitching wedge in the hole from 133. It came back out to about four feet. Hit a drive and a 5-iron into the short left bunker on 2. I splashed it out to 18 feet and I holed that.   
 3, I didn't hit a bad tee shot. I hit 3-iron and missed the fairway way left. So I could only play to sort of the front, right portion of the green. So I hit a wedge out to 45 feet -- no, maybe 40 feet, and held that putt. So it was a nice way to start.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT