DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 3, 2010
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. The eagle on 18, can you tell me the situation? 
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, I didn't hit a great drive. I sort of skied my 3-wood a little bit and was lucky it ended up short of the bunker on the right. I had 245 to the pin and just hit a really nice 5-wood in there to 25 feet behind the hole and just sort of let the putt sort of -- I was just trying to feed it down, and if it went in, it went in, and it dropped in, which was nice. A nice way to finish the round.

 Q. How did you feel about your play overall? A good way to start. 
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, 3-under for the front nine was good, and I was playing solidly the whole way around. The eagle on the last was obviously a bonus. It's a lot better. My swing feels a lot better than it did last week. I've got my coach out with me Michael Bannon, and we did a lot of hard work over the last couple days and pretty much last to leave the range the last couple days, and it seemed to pay off today.

 Q. Got to feel fortunate with the weather we have coming, luck of the draw. 
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, we got a nice draw. It was perfect. Yeah, I can go in now and put my feet up and watch a bit of the U.S. Open tennis. My rugby team back home are playing in two hours, as well, so I'm going to try and catch that on the sling box, and yeah, just try and have a nice afternoon.

 Q. Who is your team back there?
 RORY McILROY: Ulster, Ulster Rugby. They're playing against the Ospreys. It's the first game of the season, so it's a big one for them. 

 Q. What was the secret to all the low scores today?
 RORY McILROY: Just perfect conditions, no wind. The greens were soft. The greens were a lot softer today than they were yesterday. They obviously threw a lot of water on them overnight, and when you get balls stopping on these greens, greens as good as they are, guys are going to shoot some good scores. 

 Q. Any particular shot that you liked?
 RORY McILROY: I birdied the first two holes, which was nice. I just played solidly. I was 5-under through 17 and then had a nice eagle at the last. It was good, quite solid the whole way around. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT