THE RYDER CUP
October 2, 2010
Graeme McDowell
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. 18th was designed to be dramatic. Tell us how much pressure you felt coming down there?   
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, they certainly accomplished that. Especially with this pin position today. Rorsie was on max yardage back in the fairway there and didn't quite make it. And I really felt when my ball landed, I wouldn't have taken it back for a second; four or five seconds later, I would have had it back.   
 It was just spinning so much, the front of that green, I was happy to see it hang on. Fortunately the greens staff here at Celtic Manor left me a nice little bit of fringe to stop the ball. We are really just happy to steal a half point from that because we looked in trouble.  
  
  Q. You holed the putt on 17 which set up the opportunity, just try and describe what it feels like to hole a putt like that and get a reaction like that?  
 RORY McILROY: I said to G-Mac going down 17 before we got to the green, let's just try and make two here and try and win this match. And I was able to do that. It was an unbelievable feeling, and you know, you get so much support and so much buzz from the crowd, and it's sort of nice to repay them in that manner.   
  
  Q. You've been watching Ryder Cup on TV since you were five or six years old, you played the Junior Ryder Cup; what's the real thing like?   
 RORY McILROY: The real thing, it's certainly different. It's fantastic. Myself and Graeme, we said it last night, we didn't have any rhythm out there, going back out after the delay, and I thought we did really well this morning to come back down from 2-down and grab a halve.   
 We could have snuck a win at the last but I think we probably would have taken a halve on the 12th tee this morning. I'm very happy with how we came out and had a positive attitude out there. We just need to keep that going throughout the day.  
  
  Q. How special to be out there alongside such a good friend, fellow countryman, and experience that sort of experience.   
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, very special. This kid was unbelievable this morning. We both struggled a little bit yesterday. Rory's first kind of experience to the atmosphere, it was very hard to get any kind of rhythm going yesterday with the stop/start nature of the day. This guy was off the charts this morning and he's one of greatest players in the world and one of best players I've ever seen, and one of the keys to winning in The Ryder Cup is having a great partner; I've got one.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT