PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 15, 2010
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   RORY McILROY: I'm okay. Had a few bad swings the first few holes and managed to recover well. Escaped well and a few chances went by on a few holes on the back nine. Just one of those days when I felt I hit good putts and nothing went in. I am pleased as I played nicely all week and I just needed to find one more shot in there any of the four days, it's disappointing.  
  
  Q. The putt on the 18th?  
 RORY McILROY: You are just trying to put a positive stroke on it, pick your line and hit it. It was quite difficult putting through the shadow And that's all you can do.  
  
  Q. How proud are you that you ground it out today?  
 RORY McILROY: I was proud of that. I didn't hit it well and it wasn't the start I wanted but I made a great up and down on the first, a great up and down at the third and really held it together on the front nine. The only thing thinking back was that putt on 15. I actually read it straight and it went left to right. Just one of those things.  
  
  Q. How important is this in the learning curve?  
 RORY McILROY: It's the first time I have been in contention in the last round of a major and going out in the second last group. I was feeling it on the first tee and it was a new experience for me and today will stand me in good stead in the future.  
  
  Q. Has this week convinced you the first major is not far away?  
 RORY McILROY: I think so. I have put myself in position the last couple of majors, finished third at St Andrews and I will be top five here. It is not a bad week but I would have liked a little bit better.  
  
  Q. Feelings on what transpired?  
 RORY McILROY: It was a difficult day out there. The conditions were tough, the toughest we faced all week and it looked like the others found it as tough as I did. I got off to a tentative start, was trying to play my way into it and made a few bad swings but I was able to recover and I was proud I managed to do that and hold it together quite well. It was just one of those days where I gave myself chances on the back nine but nothing really happened.  
  
  Q. 11,12 and 13 - you were close on all those birdie putts?  
 RORY McILROY: I picked my lines and hit good putts and that is all you can do. I read my lines, hit them and they just didn't go in.  
  
  Q. Talk of your experience in the majors this year?  
 RORY McILROY: The first two weren't too good, two missed cuts but third at St Andrews was nice and top five here was not what I wanted but I will take the positives out of this and there were a lot of positives. I will move on, have a week off now and go into the play-offs in good spirits and hopefully give that a good run.   
  
 There were a few putts which ran by the hole. It was a good day. I am sure I can look back and see where I could have picked up a few shots but it is a good learning week for me and one I can take the positives from and move one.   
  
  Q. You were in contention and tied for the lead with four to play but two strokes - the putt on 15 and the approach on 16 - will you analyze them?  
 RORY McILROY: Not really. I felt good over the putt on 15. I read it straight and just went more left to right than I thought. The five iron on 16 I hit a good shot but the wind just didn't touch it. And the five iron on 17 as well, a couple of yards left and it is by the hole. The margins are just so small in this game. It was an okay day.  
  
  Q. Did you enjoy the battle?  
 RORY McILROY: Definitely, this is what we all want to do. It was great fun out there. It was fun when I birdied ten and 14 and gave myself chances to really make a run at it. The putt on 15 will be the one I will look back on but it was great to be there and part of many more major battles in the future.   
  
  Q. Are you proud of the way you handled yourself?  
 RORY McILROY: Yes. I stayed very patient and didn't let anything get to me or my head drop once which was one of the main objectives going out today. I was very happy with the way I dealt with the start. I was shakey and didn't let me head drop and saved pars.  
  
  Q. Does this make you more convinced you will win one of these one day?  
 RORY McILROY: It was a tough day and I felt I handled myself well. I only finished one out of the play-off and a putt here or there. I feel in myself I am ready to win one.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT