THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 16, 2010
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Talk about what happened today. 
 RORY McILROY: Two-putted for a good 80. I don't know, it was just very, very difficult out there. I think all the guys were finding it tough this afternoon, and I just let it get away from me a little bit. I actually did well to par the last three holes, if I'm totally honest. It could have been an 82 or an 83. I'm here for the weekend so it's not all bad, but definitely a complete contrast to what it was like yesterday.

 Q. You played the first three holes well, then the suspension. Did your rhythm just go?
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, I don't think they should have called us off the golf course. When we got back out there the conditions hadn't changed, the wind probably got a little bit worse. It probably wasn't a smart move. 
 But yeah, I felt as if I played the first three holes quite well, solid, and then I hit a good tee shot on 4 and then they called us in. It might have been a little bit to do with it. I'm not trying to make any excuses. Even from then I didn't hit it well and didn't put myself in the right places to try and make any birdies or make some sort of a score. 

 Q. Is it just an experience that you have to put in your mind and deal with it and play tomorrow?
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, definitely. There's a lot of big players that have missed the cut this weekend, so at least I'm here for the weekend, which is a positive. 
 Yeah, I mean, it's going to be tough tomorrow. It all depends what the weather is like again. If the weather is calm, I feel as if I've got a chance to go make a few birdies again and go low. And if the weather is like this, the wind is like this again, you're relying on the leaders to sort of mess up a little bit because it's very hard to make ground when the wind is this strong.

 Q. How much of an effect did it have on you when you have to come off like that?
 RORY McILROY: It was okay. I mean, I was actually quite optimistic that they were going to call us in. I didn't know what the weather was going to be like for the next sort of few hours, but I thought it was going to calm down a little bit. It sort of got a little calmer when we got to probably 15. The wind is not quite as strong, but it was gusting pretty strong down the middle of the round.

 Q. Have you ever had an experience like that?
 RORY McILROY: No, not really, not shooting 63 and then going and shooting 80. I haven't really experienced that before.

 Q. Being forced to come on and go back, does it change -- is it just difficult to do that for any golfer?
 RORY McILROY: I think so. I mean, that first shot I had a 7-iron into 4, which I just spent 40 minutes sort of on a bus not really doing much. So it was tough to come back and hit that shot. But after that I just never really -- I didn't mind making the bogey on 4 because I knew I had 5 coming up, which is a birdie chance, and when I didn't make birdie there, I knew it was going to be tough coming in. 
 But yeah, I mean, it was just a very difficult day and I found it very difficult, like a lot of the guys have. 

 Q. Would you have liked a proper warm-up then?
 RORY McILROY: I think the delay was long enough that everyone could have, but I'm not saying that was why -- I don't think they should have pulled us off the golf course in the first place. 

 Q. Would you go through 11, how difficult was the wind there?
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, I mean, I think it was so difficult I think a lot of guys were hitting it in the same place because you couldn't feel how strong the wind was at the tee box. The tee box is so sheltered with that grandstand there. Once your ball gets out of that little -- maybe 50 yards, it just goes sideways. Tim Clark started his ball nearly at the grandstand, so it was just -- that was probably one of the toughest holes on the course today. I just didn't hit it hard enough. You couldn't hit it hard enough. It was straight back into the wind and up that hill.

 Q. How do you describe the emotional roller coaster from yesterday to today, going through this roller coaster?
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, it was a lot of ups and downs -- more downs than ups today. Yeah, it was very tough. I could have let the round get away from me if I'm quite honest. I was starting to get very frustrated. But I did well to par the last three holes. I'm just going to go back now and have a bit of room service and get some sleep and get ready for tomorrow. 

 Q. How do you assess your chances of winning? 
 RORY McILROY: Realistically I'm only -- if you take Louis and Calc out of it I'm only five shots out. It depends what the weather does tomorrow. If the weather is quite calm, I feel as if I've got a chance to go low. Even a little bit of wind. But when it's wind like this, you're relying on other players to make mistakes. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT