THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 17, 2010
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. In spite of clearly what happened on 17, you got on a roll again today, and it must have been tough with that wind.   
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, it was. It was great to come out and play nicely the way I did there today. A bit disappointed with 17 obviously, but it was a good 3 on the last.   
 Yeah, I mean, I felt as if I responded quite well to the way everything happened yesterday.  
  
  Q. It's a testament to your character that after what happened yesterday you went out there in a wind where the best round of the day was 67. You were heading towards that until the 17th.   
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, I mean, I knew I was playing nicely. I'm not going to let one round of golf really get me down. I really struggled yesterday, but I think playing in such a strong wind yesterday made today feel not as bad, even though the wind was still quite strong. You know, I definitely hit a few shots out there that I wasn't able to play yesterday. I think it might have just been because I had 80 shots yesterday, so I had a little bit of practise (laughing).   
 So yeah, I think that helped a little bit.  
  
  Q. There's still the prospect of winning, but I think it would require something extremely special, something like Thursday's round?  
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, I think it would. If the lead tomorrow is 8-, 9-, 10-under par going into tomorrow, I feel I've got a really good chance because I know what I'm capable of around this golf course and I know what I'm capable of in final rounds. We'll see how far off the lead I am and hopefully I get off to a fast start.  
  
  Q. You seem a bit down. Is that because of 17?  
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, I feel as if I could have been a couple closer to the lead. Obviously I was playing great up to 17. I hit a good shot on 17, just got a gust of wind that completely switched. I hit a 7-iron 210 yards or whatever it was, and I just hit a 6-iron on the last hole 175. Yeah, I just got a complete gust there, so it was pretty unfortunate. But that's links golf, and you've just got to deal with it.  
  
  Q. What's the biggest positive you take out of today and moving into tomorrow?   
 RORY McILROY: I think it was -- I think it would have been very easy to let yesterday's round sort of linger, and I just completely got it out of my head and just went and tried to shoot a good score today. So I think just the response to what happened yesterday was probably the most pleasing thing.   
  
  Q. After yesterday's round and 17 today, is this still your favourite golf course to play on?  
 RORY McILROY: Oh, yeah, definitely, without a doubt. I like it a lot more when there's not much wind, but yeah, still, it's a fantastic golf course. I mean, it's the best. You have to play every sort of shot, and I was able to play most of them today and didn't play any yesterday.  
  
  Q. Can you describe the conditions today.   
 RORY McILROY: It was very tricky. I think the pin positions have helped a lot. If they would have had today's pin positions yesterday, it would have probably been a little bit more easy. But yeah, it's tricky out there. You're still getting buffered a little bit by the wind over your putts and stuff, and the ball on a couple of occasions was oscillating a little bit. It's still pretty windy out there. I'm sure the leaders this afternoon will find it quite difficult.   
  
  Q. What did you do last night?  
 RORY McILROY: Room service, bed.   
  
  Q. So you really did do room service?  
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, room service, bed, that was it. Watched Shooting Stars on BBC 2 or something and went to bed.  
  
  Q. Is that a testament to your character that you went out there today and (inaudible)?  
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, as I said, I just really tried to get yesterday's round out of my head and just focus completely on today and tried to shoot a good score. As I said, I'm not going to let one round of golf really get me down. It's only one bad round, and I'm sure I'll shoot plenty more bad ones but hopefully just a few more better ones.  
  
  Q. Do you still have the same amount of confidence that you did at the start of the week?  
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, to shoot 69 out there is a pretty good score, and to shoot 63 on the first day, I know what I'm capable of, and the 80 was just -- I mean, probably depending on what happens tomorrow, I'll probably look back on the week and say, if I could have just made that 80 a 75 or whatever. We'll see what happens, but I'm still confident that I can go out and shoot a good one tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT