ST. JUDE CLASSIC PRESENTED BY SMITH & NEPHEW
June 9, 2010
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Rory, what's a nice little Irishman like you doing in a place like this?
 RORY McILROY: Sort of wondering that myself. No. I mean it's -- that was my -- I played nine holes yesterday, played 18 today. And the golf course is just set up great. You know, it's a tough test. It's going to be tough all week. And it looks like it's going to be pretty steamy. 
 You know, and it's good preparation for the U.S. Open, tough conditions. You gotta hit the ball well; you gotta drive it in the fairway. You gotta put yourself in good position on the greens, so I'm really looking forward to it.

 Q. You and Lee and Ian here for the first time. Did Padraig kind of talk you guys into, yeah, this is a good place to get ready for it?
 RORY McILROY: Not really, no. I haven't spoken to him about it at all, no. It's just a nice little three-week stretch, obviously playing in Ohio last week at Memorial. And then, you know, it's nice to be able to play here and then go on next week, so it's good.

 Q. You gotta feel good about the way you're playing right now with the good finish last week. 
 RORY McILROY: Yeah. You know, obviously the win a few weeks ago gave me quite a lot of confidence, and to play well last week at Memorial was nice. And I played pretty well out there in the pro am today, so I'm pretty confident, pretty high hopes going into this week.

 Q. This is such a silly game, the ups and the downs and whatever, but you've kept it up. I mean you've been up for a while. You haven't had that down. 
 RORY McILROY: No, I haven't. I had a little bit of a down at the start of the year, but then I got pretty low after the Masters, missing the cut there. I was pretty disappointed about that, but coming back two weeks and after winning at Quail Hollow got me going up again. 
 And, you know, I've sort of -- I've tried to keep it there, and you know, just trying to get myself a bit higher in the FedExCup and trying to stay around the Top 10 in the world rankings will be pretty good.

 Q. A visit to see Elvis in your future this week, Graceland?
 RORY McILROY: I don't know. I don't know if I'll have the time. I don't know if I'll have the time. I'll be pretty busy practicing here trying to get my game in good shape. So I don't know.

 Q. Oh, listen to you. Come on. Thank you. 
 RORY McILROY: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT