BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 21, 2010
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. It was all going so well.   
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, it was going nicely and hit a poor drive on 15 and that was stupid, should have just chipped right. Not really trying to do the impossible but just trying to make it an easier shot for the third shot, instead of hitting 7-iron, I was trying to get myself up there so I could hit wedge, because it was a pretty tricky pin. But I just didn't pull it off. Was disappointed to walk off the 6th there. Hit a pretty good putt on 16. Thought I made par. But it was good to get a birdie on 17 and I had a good look on 18th there.   
  
  Q. That was important, wasn't it?  
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, I knew one of the pins was -- the pin on 17 was one of the easiest on the greens on the left, so even if you did miss it in that big swale on the right, you had a good chance.   
  
  Q. You must have been pleased with the start, too?  
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, I was. Birdied 3,4 and 5 which was a nice way to start and that got me back in. Sort of got me back in it.   
 Yeah, I mean, it was -- overall, it wasn't a bad round. But you know, it could have been a lot better. But I'm here for the weekend, so if I can go out tomorrow and if I can get off to the same start and just keep it going, I should be okay.   
  
  Q. You said yesterday there was a bit of a timing issue, rhythm issue in your swing?  
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, I did a good bit of work last night, and hit it pretty good on the range this morning. So, yeah, that was pretty much gone. I just needed for the club to come down a little bit on the way through, and that seemed to do the trick.   
  
  Q. Just gone back to 15, you said it was a stupid shot; were you close? Were you just playing kind of a simple chip before you took on the shot that you did?  
 RORY McILROY: The first shot I seen was trying to get it down there. So, yeah, in hindsight, it would have been easy to chip it down the fairway and then -- chip it down the fairway and give myself a good look at -- get myself just on the green for par.   
 My driving is pretty good, apart from a couple poor tee shots on 15 and 16, I've driven the ball really well this week. So, yeah, I mean, if I can keep doing that and giving myself -- setting myself up so I can hit good iron shots into the greens; but it's a tricky course. I mean, it's really, even before the changes, it was a tricky golf course and with them now, it's even trickier.  
 You have to sort of -- Luke is a perfect example. He's the most patient player in the world and this is a course that would suit him.   
  
  Q. You must be confident?  
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, I'm hitting it well enough and I'm definitely putting well enough, so just have to put it all together.   
  
  Q. Just after the birdie on 17, can you tell us what your strategy was on the 18th?   
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, I had 230 yards to the green and I'm playing up with 9-iron, it was pretty stupid. You know, when you have 230 in, you should be able to go for it. There was just -- I couldn't see myself, even if I had to hit the perfect shot on the green, even if I hit it -- just missed the green right, there was no chance of getting it up-and-down out of those bunkers.   
  
  Q. Just the target is too small from that distance?   
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, from 230, as well, that's just an easy 5-wood. You stand there and you're like, I just can't do it. Especially from the cut line.   
  
  Q. From what distance would you consider doing?  
 RORY McILROY: As I said yesterday, if I had less than 220 front, so I could short of chop a little 5-wood and get it to land soft.  
  
  Q. How did you play it off the tee?  
 RORY McILROY: 3-wood. I went 3-wood, 9-iron -- I got it re-shafted last night.  
  
  Q. Is driving not an option?   
 RORY McILROY: No, because they moved the tee up both days. Off the back tee, it's a driver. But even with the up tee, you hit driver, you risk catching the downslope and going into the water, if you're hitting 330, 340 off the tee. Basically the whole field is doing the same thing.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT