ROGERS CUP
August 11, 2009
Frederic Niemeyer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. FEDERER/F. Niemeyer
  7-6, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. What memories are you going to have after playing such a strong game tonight against Roger Federer?  
 FREDERIC NIEMEYER: Well, the atmosphere there was incredible. Finally -- it's weird to say, but it's finally my last match and I was able to play like I'm capable of playing on a center court on the big-stage event, and it's too bad it's my last match, but I really enjoyed it.   
 I was feeling relaxed and I have absolutely no regrets. I just enjoyed the moments like everyone told me to do.  
  
  Q. What was it like playing against such a big player like Roger?  
 FREDERIC NIEMEYER: Well, I mean, his serves -- I was really surprised. I mean, I couldn't read his serve. He served extremely well. I looked at -- I think the first set he was serving like 81% and he was hitting his spots, and then if you don't hit a good return, it's over the next ball.   
 So he's tough to play, and I mean, he makes you take so many chances, and at one point you take too many chances, and you know, that's where he gets you.  
 I still think I had a few chances, and I went for it, so I missed it. Maybe one day, you know, or maybe not. (laughter.)  
 Maybe -- I think that's the way my game plan was, and I followed it to the 100%.  
  
  Q. As you're retiring this year, what is your feeling about playing for the last time at this tournament where you played someone...   
 FREDERIC NIEMEYER: I mean, to finish against the best player ever for me in front of my crowd like that, night match, center stage, was a great honor. Like I said, I couldn't ask to finish on a better note except maybe win the tournament, but that's a good way to go out, I think.   
  
  Q. What do you plan to do after your tennis career?  
 FREDERIC NIEMEYER: That's a good question. Maybe your newspaper or your company can hire me as a journalist. (laughter.)  
 No, I have little ideas, but I'll see what openings come up to me, and I'll try different stuff and I'll see what I will enjoy doing for the rest of my life maybe. I think it's important that really -- I was very lucky to be able to play tennis all these years.   
 I think if I go back to my junior years, so many -- so many athletes, so many people tried to be tennis players and not many succeed. I'm proud of what I achieved, so it's time to -- it's time to go to the next step now.   
  
  Q. Would you like to maybe be a tennis pro?  
 FREDERIC NIEMEYER: Yeah, I'm sure I'll probably stay involved in tennis. So far tennis has been my life and it's my passion, and if I can stay in tennis, that would be great.   
  
  Q. Nice touch with the Canadiens Jersey. Why did you wear that tonight?  
 FREDERIC NIEMEYER: Well, I wanted to get the crowd for me. (laugher.)   
 No, I mean, Montreal here, they're big fans of Montreal Canadiens. It was just like a little message to tell them that I'm not Roger Federer, I'm Freddy, but I'm from Montreal so cheer for me, please.  
 I don't know. I thought something -- I was going to do that for fun. I mean, I'm a -- I like to joke around. Even though you guys don't know me well, but I like to joke around quite a bit.  
  
  Q. Was it hard keeping your emotions in check tonight?  
 FREDERIC NIEMEYER: What?   
  
  Q. Was it hard keeping your emotions under control tonight?  
 FREDERIC NIEMEYER: No. I don't know why. I felt really relaxed and I kept my focus. I mean, against a guy like Roger Federer, if you do the mistakes of not focusing well one game, it can go very fast, so I knew that.   
 Even games where you go 30-Love, two quick points, you gotta stay focused. The game I got broken I was up 30-Love. Like I said, little mistakes and you're done with him, a guy like that. So I knew it was going to be important for me to keep my focus.   
  
  Q. Do you feel like you've left men's tennis and Canada stronger than what you found it? Can you comment a bit on your part in the legacy?  
 FREDERIC NIEMEYER: I don't know if -- I train with a lot of young guys here at the Montreal Centre now. I think by hitting with them every day, I think I'm bringing some of my experience to them, and like the young guy, Milos Raonic -- I don't know how he did.   
 Oh, he hasn't started. Guys like that, if they can take some advice from me, I'm great for that.   
  
  Q. Has Raonic ever asked you for advice? All the times you've seen him here, has he asked you for any kind of tips?  
 FREDERIC NIEMEYER: I kind of knew the players he played in quallies, so I gave him a little tip here and there to tell him what I know, what I knew about those two players he played.   
 He's a new guy. He doesn't know many guys on the tour at this level yet, so I think it's important to keep him in informed on what I know.   
  
  Q. What about off the court and beyond, just the guys he's playing, how the life is and something he can expect?  
 FREDERIC NIEMEYER: Yeah, I tell him all the time to stay away from drugs and alcohol.  
  
  Q. Girls?  
 FREDERIC NIEMEYER: Yeah, and girls. But no, I mean, I think I'm trying to -- what I brought to him a little bit is the work ethic, and I tell him how important it is to have a daily work ethic and that can bring him a long way.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT