ROGERS CUP
July 21, 2008
Frederic Niemeyer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  T. ROBREDO/F. Niemeyer
7-6, 6-1

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Seemed like the frustration became another opponent down the stretch. Was that something that sort of got under your skin?
 FREDERIC NIEMEYER: Well, I mean at 5-0, 5-1, the return -- what got under my skin is the return was a little like -- I saw it long and the referee just said it was way inside the line. 
 Just stupid comments like that gets me a little bit, you know. I mean, it wasn't way inside the line. If it was in it was barely touching the line. Just, you know, also a lot of frustration that I was down 5-1. 

 Q. To play so well in the first set, what happened between the first and second set? 
 FREDERIC NIEMEYER: The first set I was -- yeah, I was a little disappointed losing that one because I dominated that one and I thought I deserved to win that one. But I still tries to focus. 
 What happened at Love-1 I was serving. I had an ad for me. It was kind of a long game. I had an easy forehand and he guessed the right side and ended up winning that point. That was the turnaround, I think, in the second. 
 From then on I think he just started serving better, few aces. His game went fast and he guess a couple on my serve and had a few good returns. It was going fast, and all of sudden I was down 4-0. 
 I tried to battle back, but against those type of players you can't really get down that far out.

 Q. Did you feel psychologically that you were down going into the second set because of what happened in the tiebreaker?
 FREDERIC NIEMEYER: No. I mean, I played a bad tiebreaker, but I thought I was playing good tennis in the first set. I didn't really expect to lose that second set that fast. I think a little better start would have helped me.

 Q. What do you do between now and Beijing?
 FREDERIC NIEMEYER: A challenger in Vancouver. I play there again, singles and doubles. From there we'll go to Beijing.

 Q. Does this give you more rest time now to sort of focus?
 FREDERIC NIEMEYER: No. I play doubles tonight, and then depending on the doubles -- I mean, obviously now I'm going focus on doubles this week, and also Vancouver. 
 I mean, Beijing is very important for Dan and I, so I'll do a lot of doubles drills and work on my doubles for Beijing in two, three weeks.

 Q. Were you surprised you didn't get a warning when the ball sort of launched out of the stadium down the stretch?
 FREDERIC NIEMEYER: No. I mean, as soon as the ball leaves the stadium it's supposed to be a warning. I don't think I meant it. I wasn't an aggressive move, but it's his decision.

 Q. How tough is it for a Canadian to play in this event? 
 FREDERIC NIEMEYER: For me, it's better Toronto than Montreal, even though I enjoy playing a lot in Montreal. It's very hard for me to focus well in Montreal. There's a lot of outside stuff. 
 I always play better here in Toronto. In Montreal it's kind of hard. 

 Q. There's a lot of pressure in Montreal, isn't there?
 FREDERIC NIEMEYER: Not really pressure. I don't feel the pressure, I just -- yeah, of course maybe I want to do better. Yeah, so it's a little pressure. 
 But also it's such -- I'm away all the time during the year, and then like I play a tournament in my hometown and it's fun and it's kind of -- I feel that sometimes I enjoy the tournament too much than just focusing on it.

 Q. Whereas here you can get that focus? 
 FREDERIC NIEMEYER: Exactly, yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT