WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC POOL C: TORONTO
March 8, 2009
Adam Dunn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Does this take the pressure off, tonight, having this win? Now you are in the second round.   
 ADAM DUNN: I think so. You definitely don't want to have to win to get in, so it's definitely a lot of pressure taken off. But we don't want to lose either. So, you know, all we can do is to prepare and see what happens.  
  
  Q. Adam, you have only been together a week. How does the team come together?  
 ADAM DUNN: I have no idea how this has happened, to be honest with you. I don't know. I mean, it feels like we've been together for a long time. And I don't know if that's the way they designed it or what, but, you know -- well, apparently, they couldn't. It's just a bunch of great guys that, you know, everyone gets along. I don't know. It's amazing.  
  
  Q. What's it like going through that sixth inning?  
 ADAM DUNN: That's what I expected. With that line-up, I don't see why we shouldn't have a few of these innings a night. It was a lot of fun, but I don't think it was unexpected on our side.  
  
  Q. Have you seen much of Youkilis? I know you have been in the other league, but have you seen much of him on television, or what's impressed you about him these last few days?  
 ADAM DUNN: I mean, besides getting his hand down from the top of the bat, I think that's pretty impressive (laughter.)  
 You know, I think his approach. I think he's got a great approach. He has a plan on what he wants to hit up there, and he executes it pretty well.  
  
  Q. (No microphone).   
 ADAM DUNN: I was looking for a pitch that I could drive. And, you know, I got a pitch kind of up and swung hard.  
  
  Q. Feel locked in?  
 ADAM DUNN: I feel good. I don't know if I like it, feeling this good this early, but, you know, I'm seeing the ball well.  
  
  Q. What's not to like about it this early?  
 ADAM DUNN: Well, I mean, with me, I go through a lot of bouts. I'm hoping I can stay like this for the rest of the year, and that would be pretty good actually.   
 But, you know, I'm still working. We'll see if we can keep this up.  
  
  Q. When you hit that, you looked into the dugout. Did you say anything?  
 ADAM DUNN: No. Talking to Chipper, but he wasn't looking at me, so I threw my bat at him.  
  
  Q. Did you say anything to him?  
 ADAM DUNN: Yeah, but when I looked over, he wasn't looking at me.  
  
  Q. What were you guys saying?  
 ADAM DUNN: (Laughing).  
  
  Q. What did they say to you?  
 ADAM DUNN: Nothing, just, you know, nothing specific. Just, this is a very fun team. You've been around, this is very fun. I think the personalities make this team. So it's fun, that's for sure. I'd like to play 162 games with this team.  
  
  Q. How many games would you win?  
 ADAM DUNN: We'd at least win one (laughter). I don't know how many more, at least one. I don't know. We would win a lot.  
  
  Q. You got on board this late, obviously, as compared to some of the other guys. What was your opinion, your vision of what WBC was then and now? You are talking about all the fun to be part of it and how it's changed?  
 ADAM DUNN: I got pretty good insight from a few people that had actually played in it. They told me it was very intense, and it was a playoff atmosphere, a playoff everything every day. And so me not ever being in the playoffs, I compared everything to football. I was playing in front of a lot of people in football. It got pretty exciting. And, you know, that's very comparable.   
 That's the first time in baseball that I've actually had that excitement, that feeling. You know, I could get used to it.  
  
  Q. There's a huge flag when you walk into your clubhouse. Does that catch your attention?  
 ADAM DUNN: It has to, I mean, that's why we're here. I think that's why everyone is dedicated the time, and it's playing is as hard and as well as they are, because that's what it's for. You are representing your country.  
  
  Q. Going back to late last year, when guys weren't interested in playing, did you have an idea of maybe, maybe not, or feel strongly about it one way or the other?  
 ADAM DUNN: I didn't care if they said I was in. I was going to say, Hell, yes, just like I said the last times. I was just, if they called, cool; if they didn't, oh, well.  
  
  Q. (No microphone).   
 ADAM DUNN: I haven't been talking to a lot of people. I've been feeling not really good so far. So I've been a sleeping a lot.  
  
  Q. (No microphone).   
 ADAM DUNN: I don't know yet. I think it's SARS (laughter). Great. Just kidding. I'm going down and you guys are going down with me (laughter).  
  
  Q. How did you prepare differently this year than other years when, you know, you were just going to spring training?  
 ADAM DUNN: I didn't know I was coming here. I got full spring training at-bats before I knew I was playing in this thing. I had to lock in a hurry.  
  
  Q. At this point in had the season, right now, normally you are (indiscernible). Do you feel you are going to be that much more prepared when the season starts?  
 ADAM DUNN: I think it shows that spring training is a lot more for pitchers than for hitters. When it comes game time, and you got fans in the stands, and, you know, things matter, somehow, some way, your body remembers. Swing hard in case you hit it.   
  
  Q. When Victorino came in for you, did he kind of give you a little -- I mean, that's the kind of thing that goes on when guys have played together?  
 ADAM DUNN: That's what I am saying. I've never played with Shane in my life, and I think it's awesome. It's fun. And I don't think it would have mattered who was out at first base. He would have done the same thing to anybody.  
  
  Q. Seems like you guys in the sixth just said, Let's start playing ball. Can you describe what happened?  
 ADAM DUNN: First of all, we got guys on base, and that's -- you know, we've been getting guys on base the last two games and haven't been executing and getting them in. That inning, everything came together and just broke it open.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT