NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIP
March 18, 2016
Nico Megaludis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. If you'd like to make a brief opening statement about your match.
NICO MEGALUDIS: I don't really know what to say.  I mean, I don't even know what the score was.  I know that's a bad synopsis of it, but I don't know.
Q. Good match, though.
NICO MEGALUDIS: Thank you.
Q. Nico, what's it like now to make it to your third national final?
NICO MEGALUDIS: You know, I mean, I expect it.  But I mean, I've been wrestling well for the most part this tournament.  I've been picking up each round, and I just -- I'll wrestle better and better each match, and tomorrow it's going to be awesome.  I can't wait.
Q. Nico, being that this is your third trip to the finals in four tries, can you put into words how difficult it is to make it to the finals, to wrestle in this tournament?  And why do you think it has eluded you, a championship, to this point, and how are you different this year and why do you think it's going to be different?
NICO MEGALUDIS: You know, I mean -- there were a lot of questions there.  Repeat it again, I'm sorry.
Q. How hard is it in your words, this tournament, to make it to the finals like Gilman?
NICO MEGALUDIS: You know, I mean, it's definitely difficult because people come out of the woodwork.  I mean, I could have expected maybe him, but there was other guys that were seeded a lot higher, but people come out and wrestle.  Tough kid, you know, second round.  And they come out of the woodwork, and I'm happy that that second round happened to push through a little adversity and toughen up.  Even though it maybe wasn't a good match, but everyone is good here.
Q. Can you describe your mindset for this tournament?  Seems like you've been real locked in, and how have you used your previous three tournaments to kind of develop a mindset for this one?  Can you put that into words?
NICO MEGALUDIS: I mean, I've been doing this for 20 years.  Yeah, I'm 23.  I've been wrestling since I was four.  That's a long time.  You just realize throughout all the years, all the work and camps you've been to and everything, and it's just like, man, I've done all the right things.  So just have fun now.  Do what you've got to do.  Know what you want and do it.
Q. Nico, David is a guy who's knocked off some big guns this year and last year in this national tournament.  Were you hoping to maybe take the starch out of him with a takedown early and set a tone against him?
NICO MEGALUDIS: Well, I know the kid comes in hot sometimes.  He almost took me down at the beginning with like a judo thing, and I know he's good in those positions.  I mean, I'm not going to go do a judo match with him.  I want to make it a wrestling match, so that's what I tried to do.  But yeah, the answer to your question, the kid is obviously in the national semis for a reason.  You've got to come in and get that takedown.
Q. Nico, you got Thomas Gilman tomorrow.  Thoughts about what it'll take to get the edge against a guy who's wrestling very well, and obviously you know from your conference?
NICO MEGALUDIS: Yeah, you know, I mean, I wrestled him in the Big Tens, and obviously it was a pretty tight game.  I know he's going to come, and he's going to try and take what's mine, and he's going to try and take what I want, so my job is to take what I want tomorrow night.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT