CAPITAL ONE ORANGE BOWL: FLORIDA VS VIRGINIA
December 28, 2019
Kyree Campbell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. This defense has been elite at times and then obviously LSU and Georgia maybe not so much. Do you think this is an elite defense, it's just had a couple of hiccups?
KYREE CAMPBELL: Yes, I think we're an elite defense. It's one of the things that make a big difference in a game like LSU and a game like Georgia. We don't have that much room for error. Just a little mistake can cost you the game, one mistake, one play can cost you the game.
Q. You guys have played an awful lot of big games this year where you have -- you don't have much room for error. Do you feel proud, though, that you're here with 10 wins with as many big games as you've played?
KYREE CAMPBELL: Yeah, I'm extremely proud of how many wins we got. I'm just really proud of how the team and how our defense has progressed since last year.
Q. Where do you think you guys have made the most progression?
KYREE CAMPBELL: I would say probably our communication level. Over the years we had a problem with communication, and this year I think is probably one of the best years we've been able to as a defense communicate on the field.
Q. What's this season been like for you?
KYREE CAMPBELL: It's been crazy. It's junior year, so going into senior year, so I'm excited, but I just like to play the game, so it's just football to me.
Q. What about playing -- you guys are used to this big stage, so this isn't going to fluster you, but to get to 11 wins, how important is it for this program?
KYREE CAMPBELL: It's very important. To go from 10 wins to 11 wins is a huge step. Most people might think that's easy, but to get that extra win is hard. So that's what we're hoping to get on Monday.
Q. Where are you from?
KYREE CAMPBELL: I'm from Virginia.
Q. You probably played some of these guys --
KYREE CAMPBELL: I think I have. I don't really know anyone on the team because none of my old teammates went to UVA.
Q. Where in Virginia did you grow up?
KYREE CAMPBELL: I'm from Alexandria. My whole family went to T. C. Williams.
Q. What's the week been like so far?
KYREE CAMPBELL: It's been pretty good. We're in Miami so it can't be that bad. But food, little hospitality room, even practice -- we practice really the same, but I just feel like we've got a different energy level. I mean, just overall this whole Orange Bowl -- this is my first Orange Bowl, so it's been a great experience so far.
Q. The defensive line going into next year, you guys are a pretty good bunch, lots of talent. What do you think about the overall group heading into 2020?
KYREE CAMPBELL: I feel like we'll most likely have one of the top defensive lines in the country, just with who we have and our depth. So I actually talked to my coach about this yesterday, and we was kind of excited talking about it.
Q. What did you say?
KYREE CAMPBELL: I mean, we were just talking about everybody coming, and we've got like me, Zach, T.J., Elijah, Harlan, Moon, everybody still here. And we've got like Lamar coming in and then Javon. I can't wait to see what happens.
Q. I don't know if you're familiar with Florida's history, but bowl games there's typically been freshman defensive backs that have stepped in and made a huge difference. What do you expect from the freshman corners you have. Is there a guy that you think maybe could be that type of guy?
KYREE CAMPBELL: I'd say Kaiir, coming to practice every day. He works hard, and he can play. It's as simple as that. I switched jerseys with him yesterday because I said, that's my boy. But I like watching Kaiir play. That's my dog, so I hype him up. Yeah, I really got -- when you've got trust in your back end, it's easy. Like when they trust us, it's easy on them. So I trust them.
Q. What is it about him or when did you first start to notice that he maybe had that potential as a freshman?
KYREE CAMPBELL: What game was that? Well, not even a game, practice. Just watching him going against our guys. But I want to say -- I forgot what game it was, but it was one game I saw him, and he rerouted somebody, and I liked it. Yeah, he's just got a dog mentality and he's going to come to practice every day. If you can get that out of your back end, I don't know what else you could ask for.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT