U.S. OLYMPIC SWIM TRIALS
June 28, 2016
Olivia Smoliga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Please to be joined right now by first-time Olympian and the Champion in the 100 Meter Backstroke, Olivia Smoliga.  Olivia, take us through the emotions of having the title of Olympian right now.
OLIVIA SMOLIGA: It's crazy.  I've been telling everyone that has been congratulating me that it hasn't sunken in yet.  I'm just so incredibly happy.  This is awesome.  My teammates have been doing well, too, and I think that's motivating all of us to swim our best.  I'm really excited right now.
Q. Olivia, as a product of Glen Brook South High School, as the Female High School Swimmer of the Year and somebody who excelled at the 50 Free, setting a NCAA Record this year, did you ever envision representing the Olympic Team, say, two, three years ago in the 100 Back?
OLIVIA SMOLIGA: You know, I've always loved swimming both the backstroke and the freestyle.  I think I was a lot more successful four years ago backstroke, and I think long course has always been my strong suit.  I haven't swam the freestyle this meet.  I swim the 100 Freestyle on Thursday and the 50 on Saturday, so we'll see how those go, but I don't know, the 100 Back has always been my baby.  I wanted to do so well in it, so I'm glad it turned out the way it did.
Q. 59.0.  Where did that come from?  When did you think you could go that fast?
OLIVIA SMOLIGA: Oh my gosh, I don't know.  Honestly I know it sounds bad but I truthfully wasn't focused on the time, I was just focused on getting my hand to the wall first and racing the girls next to me.  Amy and Kathleen were right next to me, and it was such a fun race.  You could see it on the Jumbotron, which part of me, I don't like it, but the other part it's sweet because you can see where you are, but it's nerve-wracking and exciting all at the same time.
Q. Is the Jumbotron a distraction?
OLIVIA SMOLIGA: It is, definitely, but I feel like it's positive and negative in itself.  Like I said, you could see where you are, but it's just stressful to see yourself up there.
Q. Olivia, we talked about it at the NCAA meet, but you are very much a wear-your-emotions-on-your-sleeve-type of person.  How much does that help you, you know, maybe get the juices flowing or just help you in your swimming?
OLIVIA SMOLIGA: Oh, yeah, definitely.  I think the thing that helped me the most honestly was just having my teammates on the sidelines, just as they were at NCs, so I was trying to channel that at this meet, because at NCs, stakes are so high, you do want to get your hand to the wall first to get point for your team, and I kept telling myself that's exactly what I wanted to feel here, because this is so individual and it's awesome, but swimming for your team, it's so much more special, so I loved having them right on the sidelines.  My parents were right behind me, and having their support was awesome.
Q. Did you always react as openly and just as picturesque as you have the past couple of years, in high school if you won something was it like that, too?
OLIVIA SMOLIGA: I really don't remember, whatever I'm feeling then I do.  If I'm excited, I'll show it; if I'm upset, I'll show it, and I guess I have been, I don't know.
Q. Olivia, having such great swimmers in the race as Missy and Natalie, what does it mean to you to be in a final like this with them, and also, when you were receiving your prize at the end there, you seemed unsure of what to do when you were on the stand, because this was a new thing for you.  Can you talk about those two and also your feelings when you were announced as an Olympian?
OLIVIA SMOLIGA: Absolutely.  Being in that final heat, I mean, I've been watching Natalie swim my entire life, for as long as I can remember, just looking up to her, she has been my number one idol.  I have always wanted to be like her.  I remember watching her at the 2008 Olympics and how incredibly successful she was there; it was an honor to be in that heat with Natalie and Missy, and to race them and just having them -- having to swim against Olympians was definitely a huge motivation.  It's been my dream to be right here, to be an Olympian, so I'm just really excited about that.
I'm sorry what was the second question?
Q. When they announced your name at the podium.
OLIVIA SMOLIGA: That's right, I was still in shock.  It's like surreal just being up there in, like, an arena full of fans such a huge stadium, it's like -- it's awesome, so I didn't know what to do because I was so shocked that I was there.
Q. So when you are in the Mixed Zone and you look over and see Emily Cameron bawling her eyes out?
OLIVIA SMOLIGA: Yes.
Q. What was that moment like when you two reunited?  And then when she made the final in the 200 IM after that?
OLIVIA SMOLIGA: Yeah, that's so awesome!  My teammates are the best in the world, and I don't care what anybody else says!  They're awesome.  Swimming for Georgia is just the best thing in the world, and now I get to represent USA, and that's also the best!  She is such a great supporter, all my teammates are, and I'm so happy that she made the final in the 200 IM.  So happy for her and all my teammates honestly that have been so successful here.
Q. What do you think as a team you guys have proved this week?
OLIVIA SMOLIGA: I think we've proved that we're hard workers, that we put in day in and day out and can show up at big meets like this, and I think being at Georgia, it's an old school program, Jack has been running it for so long, and I think it works; I think it truly does work.  We get up and race and have fun with it.  I remember talking to Melanie Margalis, and she was giggling after her 100 Breast yesterday.  She was like, "That was so fun!  I can't wait to be in front of the crowd again!"  She is just a racer and gamer, and I think that is what Jack trains us to be.
Q. You have a special tattoo.  Does it have special meaning?
OLIVIA SMOLIGA: Yeah, I got it my freshman year. It's a chakra sign.  It's "hang loose."   I don't think I look to it for me to calm down, but it is just to relax, go with the flow.  I know I really stressed myself out during prelims of the 100 Back, and I had to calm myself down for semis and finals, so it does mean a lot to me.  Thank you for noticing.
Q. Coming back after prelims, when you thought you were disqualified?
OLIVIA SMOLIGA: Oh my gosh, yeah.
Q. Did you ever imagine at that point that things would go as well as they have?
OLIVIA SMOLIGA: Truthfully I thought I was done with it.  My heart just sunk.  I remember running up to Brian Smith and he had tears in his eyes, and he was like you're okay, you're fine, you're okay, and that was so stressful.  I think just after that I was like, okay, now I really need to show that I'm here for a reason, and that I can perform to the best of my ability.  That was heartbreaking.
Q. Take us back to a year ago.  You've had such a great year this year.  Where have you made the biggest changes or improvements over the past 12 months to get to where you are now?
OLIVIA SMOLIGA: I think the biggest change that I've made was completely focusing on the sport, giving my full heart to it, and I always have, but I think I tweaked a lot of things, eating better, getting more sleep, being a little selfish with my time, I think, has been the biggest change that I've made.
I mean, it's worth it, you know, it's -- I just went to bed a little bit earlier, and all that, ate kale salads and stuff so definitely focusing completely on this, and making Trials my focal point after NCs was a huge adjustment.
Q. Talk about your mentality from four years ago as a young upstart to now, you know, being a face and a swimmer that people know and with a little bit more expectations?
OLIVIA SMOLIGA: Yeah, expectations were definitely high after four years, or four years ago.  Going into the final I think I was third, I came out fourth at the end.  That was really heartbreaking, honestly, because you have to build yourself up to make the Olympic Team, and I did, and when I fell short of it, it was really, really hard.  I remember my coach, Steve, at the time, I was crying in the warm-down pool and he was like, "You know what?  Just wait, four years, you'll put in your time.  It will all come together," but, of course, then I was like, okay, I don't want to talk to you.  You know what I mean?  I was just like, I want to warm down and be alone.  Now it just tastes so much sweeter after all the hard work I've put in.
Q. So the US has been very strong traditionally in the 100 Backstroke, three gold medals in a row with Natalie, Natalie and Missy, and the medley relay, obviously a huge event at the Olympics, which you could be entrusted to lead off.  What does it feel like sort of carrying that mantle forward?  Is there going to be a lot of pressure on you?
OLIVIA SMOLIGA: Yeah, definitely, but I love it.  I'm glad there is pressure on me.  I feel as though I perform my best when stakes are high, just as they were at NCAAs this past March and just as they were here.  You never know what's going to happen in a final like this.  You can come in first, but obviously, like I said, you never really know.
So I love the pressure, I love the extra stress, and it's just an honor to walk in their footsteps and to be kind of handed down that responsibility, and I'm ready for it.  I'm excited for it, too.  We'll see what happens.
THE MODERATOR: Congratulations, Olivia, the third Chicago area swimmer to qualify this year.  Good luck the rest of the meet.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT