CHEEZ-IT BOWL: OKLAHOMA STATE VS MIAMI
December 29, 2020
Spencer Sanders
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Oklahoma State Cowboys 37, Miami Hurricanes 34
 Q. Spencer, what was it like to go through this game and put up four touchdowns, and get guys like Stoner a touchdown in his final game?
 SPENCER SANDERS:   It's like I tell everybody, playing with 22 people, and there's 11 people on defense and 11 people on offense.  I feel like everybody deserves it.  It's not just one person.  And I feel like I did a great job of spreading the ball this game.  Brennen Presley was really on his routes.  Stoner was really on his routes.  I felt like we had a good connection and we were just there this game.  We came out and showed what we could do.
 Q. Were you guys aware of the plan with Tylan for just one-half with him?
 SPENCER SANDERS:   I mean, yeah, that's fine what he did.  He's done plenty.  He's done plenty for us.  I really wish I would hear somebody try and down him because they have got to deal with me.  That's unacceptable and that's -- I don't think that's okay.
 If anybody wants to call him a quitter, you just don't know football.  I told him, "Bubba, I wish you the best."  I have nothing but great wishes.  He did what he had to do, and that shouldn't even be a question.
 Q. How could you carry this win into next season and keep the momentum going and start preparing for 2021?
 SPENCER SANDERS:   You know, just keep doing what we do and stick to our coaching and just get better every day.  I mean, it's simple stuff.  It's fundamentals.  Just work on fundamentals every day.  Because the little things will take care of the big things but you've got to take care of the little things first.
 Q. After they handed you the MVP trophy, you turned and sort of saluted some guys in the group.  What exactly were you doing?  What were you talking to and what was your message there?
 SPENCER SANDERS:   I just talked to everybody.  Like I said before, this game is really actually played with 22 people.  You've got 11 people on offense and 11 people on defense and you've got special teams, too.  The credit goes to them, too.  There is no MVP.  Have you watched how our defense played this year?  If you haven't watched or seen that, you would know that's a big reason why we're here.
 So that MVP doesn't just go to me.  The defense stopped them when we needed to stop them and we scored when we needed to score and all I'm doing is listening to my coach and like I said just doing the little things and I'm glad I could get Brennen Presley the ball, got him his three touchdowns, Dillon got his touchdowns.  But everybody got touches today I feel like.  I was actually really excited we could spread the ball to everybody and spread the love.
 Like I said, they have to catch the ball, get the first down, get the touchdown, they have to know the play, know the route and all this stuff.  This MVP doesn't just go to me, this is for all of them.  That's what I told them.  This isn't for me; it's for all of them.
 Q. You talked about spreading the love with Tylan, Dillon and stuff but next year it's just brag to be Brennen of those three.  Can you talk about the connection that you feel like you're able to have with him and the confidence that you have in him going forward to maybe step up and be the guy?
 SPENCER SANDERS:   We have a bunch of weapons, and I feel like Presley next year will bring a great addition to add to them.
 But I feel like we've still got great guys that you haven't even seen yet and great guys that got just a little bit of touches today.  Just adding Presley into that group it just makes it that much better.
 Q. When you look at this offense, obviously you guys are losing some players and Dillon, Tylan, Chuba, but when you look at next year, how exciting is it to know that even though you're losing those players, you still have great talent in that locker room that's going to make some noise next year?
 SPENCER SANDERS:   Well, I mean, it's like I said before.  I mean, it's just great.  And as long as we take care of the little things, we'll take care of the big things.  We just have to stay fundamental and going into next year we know what we have to do and we've just got to do it and we have to execute.  The big plan, that is execution.
 I feel like we executed well tonight.  I little iffy here and there but that's fine.  That's the way football works.  Defense wins sometimes.  Offense wins sometimes.  I feel like if we keep clicking like we've been clicking (snapping fingers), we'll be just fine.
 Q. That was a heck of a first quarter game plan.  I think your first 13 plays were pass plays against a team that had been susceptible to the run the last time we saw them.  What was it about the game plan that you wanted to be so pass heavy and why was is to successful early and what happened to sort of slow it down?
 SPENCER SANDERS:   We were just detailed.  Like I said, fundamentals, we were just detailed what we did.  We were precise and on timing.  Timing was great.  I was connecting with all my receivers.  We had great timing.  A couple slip-ups here and there, a couple fall, a couple misreads and that's fine.  Like I said, that's the way football works.  Just, I don't know -- losing the question.  My bad.
 Q. Lots of ups and downs this year with football, and you add COVID into that on top of it.  What was it like going through this season and how do you feel now that it's over?
 SPENCER SANDERS:   It sucks a little bit.  It hurts.  Football is my season.  I love football.  I wish it would never go away for so long, but it is what it is, and we're going to get back to what we do.  At this point you've got to just enjoy what you have.  I'm fixing to get to practice my entire off-season and get that much better.  I'm excited to go in and perfect my craft and get better.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT