UNIVERSITY OF OKLAHOMA FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 5, 2019
Spencer Sanders
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Texas Tech - 45, Oklahoma State - 35
Q. Did you feel like -- I know we talked a lot about how you've handled it emotionally when things haven't gone well. How did you feel like you handled that part of it today?
SPENCER SANDERS: Honestly, probably not -- I'm not going to lie, I'm a football player, I'm a competitor, I don't like losing. If you want to judge me, you can, but I'm going to do whatever I can. I'm always going to fight for my team, no matter what.
Q. How frustrating was it that it kind of got away from you guys a little bit there?
SPENCER SANDERS: Man, it's football. It's the game of football. You've got to compete, and you've got to compete to win, and we've just got to keep competing. I mean, I had five turnovers, not offensive line, not the receivers, not the defense. I had them. Spencer Sanders had five turnovers. You can't do that. Just got to do better.
Q. What did Coach Gundy or Coach Gleeson say to you after the game?
SPENCER SANDERS: You drop it like it never happened. You just keep moving on. But at the end of the day, I'm not helping my team fight turnovers. It's not their fault, it's not the coaches' fault, it's nobody's fault. So it's on me.
Q. Are you proud at all about the fight, being able to come back and make it as close as you guys did there?
SPENCER SANDERS: I'm always proud of this team. We competed, so I've always got to have ten toes behind these guys. No matter what battle or war we go through, even if they're wrong, I'm going to fight, put a bullet through my head. That's my team, and I'd die for any of those guys. I'm going to do what I can, and I've got to hold myself accountable and be better next week.
Q. Why do you think the slow start offensively? I think you guys had one touchdown in 10 possessions in the first half. A lot more productive in the second half.
SPENCER SANDERS: What was the question again?
Q. Why were you off to such a slow start offensively? The first half was not very efficient. You got going pretty good in the second half.
SPENCER SANDERS: Honestly, I through two interceptions. That's kind of -- that's kind of bad, you know? It's not good. I've got to do better, and I've got to help us fight stronger and faster, and we've got to play how we played the second half the first half. That's how we're going to take that, and we're going to look at this week as a development week, and some places we got better and some places I didn't get better. So I've got to work on it.
Q. What happened on the two fumbles? Somebody just catch the ball right or hit you wrong or --
SPENCER SANDERS: It's a fumble. I honestly really couldn't tell you. It's the heat of the moment, just competing. He made a good play, props to him.
Q. Despite being so down, you got within a two-point conversion of making it a one-possession game. What was your mindset in the fourth quarter when you were staging that rally?
SPENCER SANDERS: Well, they didn't call the holding call on Tylan when I threw it to him on the 3rd down. He was wide open. It was clear, he barely got one arm out, and then the interception, they were holding Stone. Stone couldn't even get his left hand to catch the ball with two hands. Instead he had to throw one hand out there and try to make an impossible catch.
But I can't blame it on the refs, I've got to do better, and that's that. At the end of the day, you can't gripe or complain about the refs. Just me personally, I can't have five turnovers. It's nobody else's fault but mine. They didn't have turnovers, I, Spencer Sanders, had five turnovers, so this is on me.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT