AL DIVISION SERIES: ATHLETICS v YANKEES
October 10, 2001
Mark Mulder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  First post-season start at Yankee Stadium, any nerves? 

MARK MULDER:   Definitely, I think there is some nerves, but there was also a lot more focus.  I could not believe how focused I was and how you are in your own little tunnel with your catcher.  I didn't hear the crowd, my teammates; I didn't hear anybody.  It was not quite like the regular season.  There was a lot more adrenaline going and a lot more emotions.

Q.  Did you want to come out when you were taken out? 

MARK MULDER:   You know, that's his decision.  I mean, I'm not one to argue with him.  It ended up working out for the best and we won the ballgame.

Q.  How important was it in your first post-season start to get that run and settle down? 

MARK MULDER:   I think it was huge.  It let me settle down a little bit and let me relax.  Even though I got in a jam in the first inning, I battled out of it.   I had guys on base all day and I was just trying to make my pitches to get through. 

Q.  There was a point in the second inning after a lead-off single where you fell behind O'Neill 3-1, what was going through your mind, when Hernandez was coming toward you?

MARK MULDER:   I was frustrated with myself that I felt behind like that. I just missed a few pitches.  I mean, they were not strikes, but I was just picking a little bit too much.  I think I got on a ground out the next pitch.  I just threw a fastball away and I was just lucky enough that he hit it on the ground. 

Q.  Did you feel that the first inning run, the way it was scored, was like a big punch? 

MARK MULDER:   It was a big lift for us.  We have not always been the greatest team, hitting the sac fly and moving the runner along and getting them in.  Some guys hit some huge homers for us.  When you have a lead as a starting pitcher and they score that first run for you, you relax.  It makes it easier to throw strikes and stay ahead in the count.

Q.  Tim Hudson said this afternoon that he enjoys pitching behind you after you have a great outing; it gives him a chance and motivates him.  Talk about his chances tomorrow and the rest of your team with Barry and Cory, going after him? 

MARK MULDER:   Well, the last couple months of the season, it's been kind of funny, because I'd get hit and then he would get hit the next day.  But then I would pitch well and he would pitch well.  So he kept getting on me to pitch well every time.  You know, it's just sometimes the way a pitching staff goes.  You feed off of each other, but, I mean, Hudson is about 50-2 in his career.  (Laughs).  He's going to go out and do a good job tomorrow and hopefully we can score him some runs early.

Q.  Can you reflect on pitching against Roger Clemens in Yankee Stadium?

MARK MULDER:   You know, I've watched him over the last few years growing up and stuff, and it's fun to do that, but I'm going against their hitters and that's the bottom line.  I'm not going to concern myself with that or worry about it when I'm out there trying to make pitches.

Q.  Talk about your emotions as you were walking off the field?

MARK MULDER:   I would have liked to have finished it but I also had not gotten him out all night.  With Knoblauch and Jeter coming up after, I don't think Art wanted to take the chance, plus the threat against the steal.  I was very happy with the way I threw the ball and I was not upset about coming out. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT