U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 15, 2018
Isaiah Salinda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  4-up through 9 holes.  First hole you won was a par, then next hole you won was with a birdie.  Tell us what was going right for you today.  
ISAIAH SALINDA: Yeah, I knew the conditions were playing tougher than the stroke play, just with -- it was pretty windy out there, and I knew there probably wouldn't be too many birdies.  I just hit a lot of fairways and greens, and par definitely won a few holes out there.  Will didn't play -- he's a great player, but he just didn't play his best, and I was able to hit fairways and greens and kind of keep it stress free.   
 Q.  Is this the kind of thing where you felt like you were ready to play this morning when you first got here?  
ISAIAH SALINDA: Oh, yeah, for sure, yeah.  I feel like for match play, you have to be kind of excited and ready to go.  You've got to be like mentally in it from the start.  You can't just like ease your way into it kind of like stroke play.  You've got to focus on every shot even more.   
 Q.  How many folks were wearing Stanford colors out there following you today?  
ISAIAH SALINDA: I had a few friends and teammates, so it was nice.  Nice to have them support me.   
 Q.  Was Coach out?  
ISAIAH SALINDA: No, he was out the last couple days and watched me warm up today.  He had to go back to campus to meet with a kid.  But yeah, he was supporting me.   
 Q.  What's the feeling like after a first-round win?  The pressure is all on the first couple days to get to match play.  Now you get here and you win your match comfortably.  What's your next mental processes?  
ISAIAH SALINDA: Nothing changes really.  Just got to keep it going and stay focused and with the game plan that my caddie and I are trying to execute out there.  Nothing really changes, just stay focused and keep going.   
 Q.  We talked yesterday, you hadn't played Pebble Beach at all before you came to the U.S. Amateur.  Picking up nuggets as we go along here?  
ISAIAH SALINDA: Yeah, especially today since it played a little tougher.  Kind of exaggerated your misses a little bit.  You kind of had to play smarter.  But yeah, it's an incredible course.  You kind of appreciate it the more you play it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT