THE PRESIDENTS CUP
September 29, 2007
Mike Weir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE WEIR:  It was a good -- as they say in golf, ham-and-egg, and we did that well.  It was back and forth.  Ernie got off to a great start making some beautiful putts and hitting some great shots.  Then I birdied 7,8 and 9 and you know, he birdied the par 5 and I birdied the next couple, 14 or 15 and 16 -- or 14 and 15, sorry.  You know, just good back and forth, good team play.   
  
  Q.  And yesterday was the first time you had played with Ernie.  I think you've found a new teammate.   
 MIKE WEIR:  I think I did find a new teammate in this format.  We gelled well together, me being consistent and getting it in play and he can be aggressive on the par 5s and he drives the green in 14; that strategy works well.   
  
  Q.  What's this like with all of this press and media chasing you around all the time?  Do you feel like a rock star out here?   
 MIKE WEIR:  It's different.  It's what Tiger goes through every week.  But this week, it's been special.  I'm playing as good of golf as I've played in my career pretty much, so hopefully this will kind of spur me on for the rest of the year and I'm glad to be playing well right now.   
 This gives me a lot of confidence, with all of the hard work I've done.  I've done a ton of work on my game this year, haven't played in three weeks but was leading up in Boston, good sign there.  Felt like things were really coming around.   
 I'm looking forward to the rest of the year, but looking forward to tomorrow.  We've got a big day ahead of us and we're going to need every point that we can get and every point, half-point is going to be crucial tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  Would you relish a singles match against Tiger given that you're playing so well?   
 MIKE WEIR:  Obviously I'd love that but we'll see what Gary has to say.  He's the captain and you know, we'll see what happens tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  Do you think he'll put you out early tomorrow?   
 MIKE WEIR:  Not sure if he wants me in the middle.  The strategy in the team matches was to go in the middle to get the crowds going from both end of where I was and I don't know if they will go that way tomorrow, I'm not sure.   
  
  Q.  You need nine of 12 singles wins; do you believe in miracles?   
 MIKE WEIR:  Absolutely.  You run our 12 guys up against their 12 guys, they are going to think that any given day they can beat us and we think the same.  It's just a matter of getting off to a good start, get some momentum going, you can really feed off that.  When you look up on the board, I know in the Cups I've played, you see a lot of blue on the board, it gives you a lot of confidence and vice versa.  When you see a lot of red, it sometimes brings you down so hopefully we'll see some blue tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  Anything you'll say to the guys tonight in the room?   
 MIKE WEIR:  I don't want to talk about that too much, but I'm sure I will.  All of the guys are good about saying something and how they feel.  All of the guys that are veterans in the Presidents Cup will probably say something.   
  
  Q.  Now that it is official that you're playing tomorrow, a lot of speculation that you were going to be; are you looking forward to it?   
 MIKE WEIR:  Yeah, got my hands full, that's for sure.  I think it's good for the fans.  Everybody is fired up about the match, the possibility of the match.  We need some momentum so hopefully I can play well and get some blue on the board.  There's three groups in front of us, hopefully there will be some blue on the board before I even get started and that will give me some momentum.  I've really fed off the crowd this week and hopefully I can do that tomorrow because I'll need it.   
  
  Q.  The crowd all week has absolutely mobbed behind you, with the two of you guys together, what's that going to be like?   
 MIKE WEIR:  It's going to be loud.  It's going to be loud.  Hopefully I can give them a lot to cheer about.  I've been able to do it so far through three days, but tomorrow, obviously anybody who plays Tiger has got their hands full.  But I'm playing well and I feel like if I can keep that up, it's going to be a great match.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT