WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 3, 2007
Mike Weir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE WEIR:  I hit a shot out of the rough on 4 and I felt something, and then on 9 I hit one out of the rough and I just felt it tighten right up.  I thought there's no way I'm going to ruin this for next week.  I had it worked on a bit in there, and he said it's going to be a couple days, just got to rest it and take Advil and ice it, and I'm going to come back and see him tomorrow morning and hopefully be ready for next week.   
 I've had a couple neck issues, and it's just a flare-up, really.   
  
  Q.  Muscle spasm?   
 MIKE WEIR:  Maybe Shea can give a better terminology for it, but basically, yeah, it's a muscle spasm, everything in there from my neck right down there into my upper thoracic area is just swollen right up.   
  
  Q.  Did you hit a particular shot or something?   
 MIKE WEIR:  As I said, yeah, on 4.  And then I kind of was battling it a little bit all day, and then I hit it in the rough on 9 and tried to hit a hard wedge up and over the trees and I felt it there, and then I hit a shot down on 10 that was just in the rough, I had to hit out of the rough again on 10, and that was it.   
  
  Q.  You said you've had this before.  What was it, and how long does it usually take to --   
 MIKE WEIR:  It's usually a couple days.  It's usually a couple days until I can swing, but yeah, you've got to do pretty much nothing.  You've got to just -- like Shea said, Advil, ice it.  He said tomorrow it'll probably be really stiff when I wake up, which is kind of what I remember it being, and then it will kind of work its course of not doing anything.  You've got to let it settle down.  Everything has just spasmed up, so you've just got to let it settle.  You can't try to stretch it, you can't do anything.  You've just got to let the inflammation settle down.  Usually it takes a day or so.   
  
  Q.  Obviously you've planned on being here for Saturday and Sunday because it's a no-cut event.  I guess will you still stay here?   
 MIKE WEIR:  No, I won't.  I'll go home now and go back probably, and that will give me a chance to see my chiropractor a couple times when I get home.  He's always been good at getting me back in alignment, so it'll be good.  I'll be able to see him probably tomorrow.  If I can fly out tomorrow, I'll go see him tomorrow and Monday and maybe fly out -- just kind of thinking I would fly out Monday afternoon after I saw him in the morning or something.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT