CANADIAN OPEN
July 29, 2007
Mike Weir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Busy week for you? 
 MIKE WEIR:  Yeah, it is a busy week.  Today wasn't what I expected.  I thought I was going to play -- I thought I was going to shoot a good score today.  I felt good on the range and everything was going well, and I hit some good shots at the opening start of the day and to be 2-over through four with hitting some good shots was kind of a shock really to tell you the truth. 
 Just made two birdies on the way in and the rest of the day was kind of just steal.  Couldn't get anything going.  When I was in between clubs, I picked the wrong one.  When I thought the wind was doing something, it did the other.  It was just one of those days. 

 Q.  Is wind a factor? 
 MIKE WEIR:  Oh, yeah, it was.  You can't feel it here but it's totally swirling around a lot out there.  And you'll see guys come up short a lot or go long; it's swirling around. 

 Q.  Just chalk it up as one of those days? 
 MIKE WEIR:  That's all it is, it's one of those days.  I hit, like I said -- the few bogeys I made were good shots.  I hit a real nice wedge into three and was playing downwind when it was into the wind -- great shot into 4-, a 5-iron that ran through the green and didn't get that up-and-down.  Just one of those days. 

 Q.  How were the pin placements compared to yesterday? 
 MIKE WEIR:  They were better.  I thought they were better.  The pins were tough but they were not on side slopes today.  There were some tough pins out there, though. 
 Course is firming up.  I would say, you know, early on, earlier in the day, first couple of greens were soft and then it took a little adjusting to get, you know rebound the third and fourth greens -- I don't know if any of you guys were out there -- the bounces on three and four were different than on the first two greens, so had to readjust and they seemed a little more consistent after that. 

 Q.  Some players have suggested that the tournament should take to courses like Shaughnessy and Hamilton? 
 MIKE WEIR:  I totally agree with that.  Players when they are looking at their schedules, it's underestimated the importance of a golf course.  I think when guys know they are playing an old championship golf course, and this being a National Championship, I think it really adds to the tournament if we can get playing some of these great, old courses that we do have. 

 Q.  Do you think the Canadian Open will ever come back here? 
 MIKE WEIR:  I don't know.  I think the course turned out to be better than expected, though.  I think they did a real fine job getting the course ready.  I'm not sure if they will come back.  Not sure what the plans are and when Scott has in mind for this tournament. 

 Q.  What about bringing in a bunch of outside sponsors and bumping the purse to $8 million; would that get players? 
 MIKE WEIR:  Yeah, getting the purse up would help.  I still think golf courses, that's the main issue.  The purses on tour all the way across the board are so good now that, sure, from 5 million to 6 or 7 is a significant shot.  But still, guys when they are looking at the schedule, there are so many big tournaments and so much money to play for anyway, it's more looking at good golf courses now. 

 Q.  Other than the tradition, what is it about the old courses that the players like? 
 MIKE WEIR:  Yeah, I think that it's just more shot-making and knowing that more guys involved in the tournament, there's the different types of players that can win tournaments, not just bombers when you play real long courses that are open and you can just let it rip all day long.  A course like Hamilton, the driver has to stay in the bag a little bit and you have to maneuver it around and make a little bit more and the greens might have a little more subtlety.  That has a big influence. 

 Q.  Two-week grade?  
 MIKE WEIR:  I don't know if I would give it a grade, but probably about a B.  This week wasn't great, but last we was really good and the next two weeks are big weeks. 
 I'm pleased with the way I struck the ball the last couple of days.  First few days I didn't hit it well and I drove it great the last few days.  I just had a tough time on those greens so hopefully Akron will be a little better. 

 Q.  How difficult is it when you're not making any putts? 
 MIKE WEIR:  Well, you know, doesn't let you get under par, that's for sure.  Really, if you're not making any, it's tough to get 4-, 5-, 6-, 7- , 8-under par when the putts are not dropping in.  You just keep doing the same thing and try not to change.  You keep doing your same routine and do what you've always done and hopefully they go in. 
 That's golf.  You let it go off the putter and if they hit a spike mark, you misjudge the speed, whatever it is, a lot of things have to go right to make a putt.  Just keep plugging away. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT