CANADIAN OPEN
July 28, 2007
Mike Weir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Good ball-striking? 
 MIKE WEIR:  Yeah, it was good today.  I drove it great.  I mean, hit it really, really solidly today and you know, could have been a real good round but I'm happy with that.  4-under was a good score, but you know, you get a couple of things going your way, after I birdied 12, hit a drive where I think is right in the middle of the fairway and runs through when I had 80 yards to that pin and hit a good shot to the next hole that spins off all the way down, and you know, a couple of those, and it's two or three better. 

 Q.  Having come back, you talked about it a bit yesterday, eight or nine back the previous tournaments and bouncing back with the strong rounds Saturday and Sunday, is that confidence you can take in going to the weekend at a time like this, that you can get back into it? 
 MIKE WEIR:  Yeah, you just never know what the conditions are going to bring.  You've just have to play hard and sometimes the weather is in your favor where it might be nice in the morning and tough in the afternoon and the scores, really stagnate and you can gain a lot of ground.  Looks like it not really going to do that and it's going to be nice this afternoon.  The course, there's some unbelievable pin placements today that guys are going to -- there are some real tough ones today. 

 Q.  What were the good ones for you? 
 MIKE WEIR:  Drove it right down the middle all day and hit solid shots all day, which I wasn't doing, hitting a lot of fairways. 

 Q.  Is this a round you anticipated today? 
 MIKE WEIR:  Yeah, when I finished on the range last night.  I better feel for what I was doing, I felt like I even hit it better today. 

 Q.  How big of a difference were the greens? 
 MIKE WEIR:  It's different.  I still had somebody in front of me that had a certain long spike that was leaving nice tracks out there.  But outside of that, the greens, the difference, from now until later this afternoon, it will be a big factor. 

 Q.  Not hard to figure -- 
 MIKE WEIR:  No, it's not hard to figure -- 

 Q.  It wasn't Phil, was it? 
 MIKE WEIR:  They were both that long.  (Laughter) 

 Q.  14 fairway -- 
 MIKE WEIR:  I did.  That pin was incredible.  I mean, it was right on the crown, so I just tried to get the break out of it.  That was a crazy pin. 

 Q.  Talk about the greens, for all of the things that have been said about this course, have we underrated the greens? 
 MIKE WEIR:  The greens are very difficult, there's no question.  There's not many pin placements out here, so many little rolls and bumps for a public-play golf course, there's some -- No. 6 is unbelievable, and 12 and 14 were incredible pins today. 

 Q.  What's your mind=set going into the round when you're not on the leaderboard? 
 MIKE WEIR:  Yeah, you want to be a little more aggressive, that's for sure.  But the only way that you can do that is if you're hitting it well and that was the difference today.  I was hitting well, felt good about it, so I was able to chase after most of the pins today because you knew they were going to stop. 

 Q.  How long did you have to work? 
 MIKE WEIR:  Not a long time.  I was out there maybe 40 minutes. 

 Q.  What were you thinking about? 
 MIKE WEIR:  Just little swing key. 

 Q.  You've been at this for a long time, how do you know it's there -- 
 MIKE WEIR:  Again, I think it started with last night and the feel of it, and then this morning, the warmup, you know, warming up Thursday and Friday was okay, and today was much sharper and I felt good about it right from get-go and hit great shots right out of the gate. 
 He's looking to birdie one and had a close put there and I birdied 2 and 3.  I had good chances all the way through, so it felt good right away. 

 Q.  Did you have an idea what you're looking for? 
 MIKE WEIR:  I had an idea, yeah.  I had an idea.  I had to work around that idea a little bit, and came up with a few things. 

 Q.  Talk about the greens; is that where the golf tournament swung? 
 MIKE WEIR:  Yeah, I think so.  The course, you know what, outside of majors where the best putter doesn't necessarily win that week in a major because you don't necessarily control everything else as much.  Here if you're driving it pretty good, you can still get away with things as long as you're putting well.  And I think whoever is putting the best is probably going to win here. 

 Q.  How far was that drive on 13? 
 MIKE WEIR:  That was like 340 probably.  I mean, it was downwind, but that thing bounced about 15 feet in the air.  They are starting to firm up, take big bounces on the fairways and run out. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT