CANADIAN OPEN
July 27, 2007
Mike Weir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  On one hand, I guess, it's got to be a bit of a relief to make the cut.  On the other, how frustrating?  You had a chance to go 3-under there on the last hole? 
 MIKE WEIR:  Yeah, I hit a good putt, and there was a big raised tuft of grass right in my way, a big spike mark.  And I just said let's hit it hard and roll right over, and it bumped right off it and went to the right, so that was unfortunate. 

 Q.  Overall, satisfied with today or not so much? 
 MIKE WEIR:  Oh, you know, it was a struggle all the way around.  Glad to get it in at 1-under, but didn't play great.  So we'll go to the range and try to figure it out. 

 Q.  Hit the ball a little better today, though? 
 MIKE WEIR:  It was a little better.  Just seemed to short side it myself early on and missing on the wrong side, and then had some tricky up-and-downs, just overall wasn't quite as sharp as I wanted.  But I did drive a little bit better, and it would have been nice to shoot 4 or 5 under instead of 1 today. 

 Q.  Does it take the pressure off for the weekend?  It was cut it close, then make the cut, and now it's like all right? 
 MIKE WEIR:  Well, you know, I've got to play really good to get back in this thing.  But at the same time, you know, a number of times I've won tournaments I've come from a long way back. 
 I can recall Valderrama when I was about 8 back, shot a great round to get back in it.  And my first one back-to-back 64's to do it.  So you never know when the game can turn around.  I'm not playing quite well right now to do it.  But another good session on the range, and hopefully feel good tomorrow. 

 Q.  How important was it to make the cut.  Especially here, even more here? 
 MIKE WEIR:  Yeah, definitely.  It was a grind today.  I mean, it wasn't easy.  It was a grind all the way around.  Made some nice putts coming in, and, you know, I'm real pleased with my short game.  I've just got, to you know, for some reason I've just been the last few weeks just been struggling a little bit.  So, yeah, I'm glad I'm playing two more days, that's for sure. 

 Q.  Looking back the save at 16 looks better now than it did then? 
 MIKE WEIR:  Yeah, yeah, exactly.  I saw that, thought I made that spot on 18.  Saw that big spike mark in my way.  And just like I said, I tried to hit it hard, and hopefully it would run right over it, but took a detour right. 

 Q.  Left you a big one coming back? 
 MIKE WEIR:  Yeah, it was tricky coming back, didn't have anything in my way.  But yeah, that's golf late in the day.  You know, on bent grass greens late in the day, you can get a few of those. 

 Q.  Were you a different golfer the last nine here?  I mean, did you feel that you may be pressing a bit the first day and a half?  Because the back nine, you seemed like a different golfer then? 
 MIKE WEIR:  Well, I didn't, maybe to you, but it didn't feel like it to me.  It was just a bit of a struggle all the way around.  And, you know, just wasn't sharp with my game, you know, from the git-go.  So, you know, just go work on it, and try to get ready for tomorrow. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT