CANADIAN OPEN
July 26, 2007
Mike Weir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  (Inaudible). 
 MIKE WEIR:  Well, sure, yeah.  I'll play well tomorrow and be right back in there.  Wasn't a great day, but, you know, made some nice putts and got the ball around okay.  Just kind of strange, you know.  Just had a couple of lies just barely in that first cut that I felt like I could have controlled a little better.  Like the shot into 9 would have been an easy shot, but a foot to the left on the fairway.  But just got to find more fairways tomorrow. 

 Q.  Something in the stance or something that is driving your overall feeling? 
 MIKE WEIR:  Yeah, just been feeling uncomfortable a couple of weeks, really.  I didn't drive great last week either, but I was able to get it out.  So got to keep working on it.  Go hit the ball this afternoon and try to straighten it up. 

 Q.  How much did the change to the course affect your game? 
 MIKE WEIR:  Well, I think the changes in the course are good.  I think the wind was a little bit tougher today.  It was swirling around a little bit.  I think it fooled us a few times out there.  I remember this course, it does swirl around in the trees a little bit, so... 
 But I think the changes are, you know, I don't know how that's affecting, you know, it's a first for everybody.  First time everybody's seen it, so it is the same for everybody. 

 Q.  Are you surprised at all there was a 9-under on the board? 
 MIKE WEIR:  Not really.  I thought maybe somebody would shoot 7, 8, you know.  9 is a great score.  You could see that often if you have it. 

 Q.  (Inaudible). 
 MIKE WEIR:  Oh, really?  Well, that will do it. 

 Q.  Is this more of a bomber's course? 
 MIKE WEIR:  It's a little bit more of a bomber's course than any.  It is definitely more than Hamilton.  It helps to be able to carry the ball, you know, 280 to the cut to the par 5, the one par 5 on the back side.  Yeah, it helps. 

 Q.  Because it's the Canadian Open, I'm sure you have a lot of friends and family here and more obligations because we're in Canada just got back from, you know, across the Atlantic.  Are you exhausted? 
 MIKE WEIR:  I'm a little worn out.  It's been, you know, I played a pretty busy schedule, and I have a busy schedule coming up.  So, yeah, just when you come back from overseas you're a little tired, but that's no excuse for today.  That wasn't a fact of why I didn't play well today.  But, you know, I've got to conserve my energies a little bit in the next few weeks.  It's a busy stretch here. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT