CHRYSLER CLASSIC OF GREENSBORO
October 4, 2006
Mike Weir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TODD BUDNICK:  We thank Mike Weir for joining us for the 2006 Chrysler Classic of Greensboro.

Mike, your first visit here since 1979 where you finished tied for 25th.  A new course since then.
MIKE WEIR:  I've heard great things, the work Davis did around this place.  I only had a chance to play 9 holes yesterday so I'll get a real good look at it today in the Pro Am this afternoon.

The greens are a little more difficult than what I remember them.
TODD BUDNICK:  You're 30th on the money list with a couple weeks left.  Obviously you have at least one goal in mind and probably two.  I know you'd like a victory this season, as well.
MIKE WEIR:  Yeah.  You know, the Tour Championship would be nice for sure but I am very motivated to get a win and been close a few times this year and just hasn't panned out.

I'm looking to play well here and play Disney and maybe one more.  But hopefully this golf course feels like it sets up well for us.
TODD BUDNICK:  You had one of the longer streaks of the year, made 17 consecutive cuts up until the Canadian Open.  Just assess your season along with that and the streak.
MIKE WEIR:  It's been a little bit indifferent.  I think obviously the final rounds haven't been too good to me this year.  As I was telling Bob out there, I've been kind of working through a few things on my game and golf swing.

I've learned a lot about what's holding up, what's not and kind of have all those things kind of ironed out I feel like and, you know, outside of the Canadian Open I feel like I played pretty consistent all year.

Like I said, a few rounds away from    it could have been a great year if I could have played a couple better rounds but, you know, still got a couple tournaments left to make it a great year.
TODD BUDNICK:  We'll take some questions.

Q    Mike, why did you decide to play here this year after such a long break?
MIKE WEIR:  Well, you know, I was scheduled to play last week over at the World Match Play.  Just tweaked my back in the second match there that I was playing Paul Casey and I couldn't swing.  I couldn't swing for about probably seven, eight days, couldn't do a thing.

So that lead me into the week of the American Express and I started practicing, you know, early in that week and just felt like, you know, I wasn't ready.  I couldn't swing a driver until about Thursday.

Obviously I had to skip that.  Then, you know, I thought this was, of all the tournaments kind of left on the schedule, this one kind of fits right in with a golf course I like and hadn't been here in a long time and plus I was kind of chomping at the bit because I felt like I was on to some good things.

I played good match against Adam Scott, beat him and then was playing well against Paul and just, unfortunately, that happened.

So I was ready to get back out.

Q    Was that sciatica, looked like the pain was shooting down your leg.
MIKE WEIR:  Yeah.  Lower left side of my back and as it went on it kind of went across the whole QL muscle, just muscle spasm.

I had that in college where I was out probably three, four months my second year in college and I haven't had a problem since.  I've been very diligent about stretching routine.  For some reason that day I woke up and I was a little stiffer than normal.

I went through my whole routine.  All day I was battling.  It was a little cooler that day.  Kept getting stiffer and stiffer.

Q    The only thing, just rest?
MIKE WEIR:  Yeah, Advil and rest and ice, basically.

Q    How was the flight back?
MIKE WEIR:  It was awful, flight back.  Luckily, I had a buddy that could help me with my luggage.  There could have been no way to move all the stuff around.  It wasn't    didn't sleep much.

Q    Mike, are you familiar with the 2007 schedule and where Greensboro fits in on it?
MIKE WEIR:  To tell you the truth, I haven't really looked at it closely.  I know what July and August looks like.  I haven't really looked at the rest.  Where does it fall?

Q    Last one before the fall playoffs.

Is that viewed    Greensboro is saying that it will help the field, kind people kind of jockeying for position at the last minute.  On the flip side of that, they said it's a good time for players to take off and get some rest.
MIKE WEIR:  Right.

Q    Where do you see some of the top 20, top 30 players reacting to that?
MIKE WEIR:  It could work.  Some guys are going to skip it because there are the four FedExCup tournaments right after, some players will want to maybe play something and kind of get up and move their ranking position going into those four events and maybe get some more points.  Just depends.

Obviously, me being from Canada, the Canadian Open before the British Open, how that falls in.  There's pros and cons to all of it.

You look at it, you know, the Canadian Open, maybe some players might skip that because there is a big stretch of events coming up, the PGA and some World Golf Championship events before that FedExCup.

On the other hand, you might look at it like there might not be a strong field and have a good chance to win.  You might    then get your ranking high going into the playoff system.

So, you know, just depends on the player.  Player who likes to play a lot might choose to come here and play, player who likes to take some time off and really prepare himself for maybe those events might skip it.

It's a tough call.  It's going to be different for everybody.

Q    Todd mentioned you're, so far, 30th on the money list.  How important it is to reaching the Tour Championship?  It's got to be a goal obviously ever year to get in the top 30.
MIKE WEIR:  Sure.  It's a goal.  I definitely want to play in it but, at the same time, you know, for me right now, I just want    I want to win.

I'm not    I've been in the Tour Championship a lot, I've won the Tour Championship.  To be in it is great but it's not super high on my priority list.

I'll just say that.  I'd rather play these next few weeks and win and obviously I'll play it but I'm just looking to play well no matter what.  I'm not really paying that much attention to it.
TODD BUDNICK:  Anything else for Mike?

Q    Mike, really quick, have you had a chance to play with Bubba Watson?
MIKE WEIR:  I played 9 holes with him at the Memorial this year in a practice round.

Q    Talk a little bit about his game, especially off the tee.
MIKE WEIR:  Yeah.  He's long.  It's fun to watch him rip it out there.  I like his attitude about it.  He kind of goes out there and rips at it.  He kind of has his own style, his own swing and to me he looks pretty creative, like he likes to shape the ball around and curve it, work the ball around.  I like his game.

I think it's only to get more refined as he gets out here and learns how to play and keeps at it, knows when to hit the driver and iron shots.

Bubba is going to be a good player out here.  Can't help it with that length.  You have a wedge on every whole.
TODD BUDNICK:  Thank you.  Good luck this week.
MIKE WEIR:  Okay.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT