CANADIAN OPEN
September 8, 2006
Mike Weir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
PGA Championship, U.S. Open, you had good showings.  Out of the blue for you here?
MIKE WEIR:  I just didn't play well.  Any tough golf course, you don't get it on the fairway, you're going to struggle.  I just didn't get the ball on the fairway.  That's it.
Q.  Considering how much this tournament does mean to you, cut line is probably going to be at even par, you won't be around for the weekend.  What is going through your mind right now?
MIKE WEIR:  Get ready for next week.  It's disappointing.  Didn't play well.  You know, if you're playing your home golf course and spray around like that, you can get away with it.  You play a tough golf course with deep rough, you don't hit it well off the tee, you're going to struggle.  That's what I was doing.

I wasn't getting it on the greens in regulation, scrambling for par.  Yeah, I mean, that's what happens.
Q.  People want to talk about the pressure on Canadians to win this event.  Are you buying into any of that?
MIKE WEIR:  There's some there, you know, for all of us.  It's a tournament.  You know, I tee up this way, I don't feel any different than I do when I tee up    look, guys, I'm 36 years old.  I've won all over the world, won big tournaments.  When I come here, it's the same.  Major championship, this tournament, it's the same feeling.  It's two rounds I didn't play well.

Is it a big deal?  Yes, it is.  I'm disappointed as everybody.  Life goes on.  I have to work hard next week, get back, hopefully win something by the end of the year.
Q.  Was there a certain point on the back where you realized where you were, where the cut line was probably going to be?
MIKE WEIR:  It's not like that.  You just kind of keep doing what you're doing.  You know, I was trying to get the ball on the fairway, that's what I was trying to do.  I couldn't do that.  It's hard to go all out when you're playing on an eight inch rough.
Q.  First putt looked like you had a pretty good chance for birdie.
MIKE WEIR:  Had a nice putt there.  Had to wait a while to hit that putt.  I missed that.  Made a nice par save.

It's kind of just a scramble all day.  I just didn't hit it well.  They did a great job setting this golf course up because if you're not playing well, you should be struggling.  That's what this course gives you.
Q.  You're the focus here.  I guess that makes it tougher when you miss the cut.  Does this make it even more frustrating to deal with?
MIKE WEIR:  You know, I mean, the frustrating part is making it such a big deal.  Obviously, I'm frustrated.  Yeah, I didn't play well this week.  But everything has been going well this year.  It's one bad week.  It happened at the wrong time.

You know, I'm going to keep working hard.  I've been kind of struggling with my golf swing since the PGA.  As I said, if you guys were there, I was telling you, it was kind of fluky the way I was getting around there, my ball striking.  Didn't get it in the fairway enough.  Didn't get it figured out well enough this week.

Just got to keep working at it.
Q.  Does it get tiring having to wear the Canada cape throughout a lot of the tournaments?
MIKE WEIR:  You know what, the fans are unbelievable.  I mean, there's so much support by the fans.  That's the way it is.  I mean, no is the answer to your question, no.
Q.  You seemed particularly relaxed this week.  Seemed like you were having a good time this week.
MIKE WEIR:  Sure.  You know, I was.  I thought the things I was working on    I worked out with my coach last week.  I thought things in practice were really    I was really striking the ball well.  Like I said, for a couple weeks I wasn't hitting it well.  I thought I had something figured out.  I was just sporadic with my ball striking.

When you play a tough course, whether it's here, the BC Open, wherever, when you're playing a difficult course, if you're struggling, it's going to jump up and bite you.  That's what this course did.

It's a great test.  They did a great job setting it up.  I think it's wonderful.  If you're playing well, it's scoreable because the greens are soft.  If it's not, you're playing out of the rough, you're going to shoot some over par scores.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT