PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 20, 2006
Mike Weir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MIKE WEIR:  For a player like myself, being a light hitter, it's tough for me to get gimmie birdies on par 5s where some of the long guys are reaching the par 5s and I have to work maybe a little harder.

It does put a little heat on you, and I maybe pressed a little bit trying to make something happen.  You know, that's the way it goes.
Q.  What do you take, you played really well this week and on the weekend, too; what do you take away?
MIKE WEIR:  I played great.  I take away a lot.  I'm looking forward to the rest of the year.  Outside of the British Open, I've been in contention in every major.  You know, I feel like I'm due.
Q.  Just the difference between your last eight holes and your first ten holes, was it mechanics, was it conditions, what would you put it down to?
MIKE WEIR:  Like I said, it's just golf.  I can't explain it other than that.  You know, I had some really nice shots.  I hit a couple poor shots and made pars on those holes, 12 and 15.  Some of the bogeys I made coming in, I hit great shots, 16 I hit a 6 iron right at and it the win gusted.

17 I 3 putted, and 18 I hit a great shot 12 feet underneath the hole and didn't make it.  I didn't get any momentum going.
Q.  In 2000, certainly Tiger set a new standard in golf, it seems like you guys have caught up to him to a great extent.  Given what he's done this year, has he separated himself from the field again?
MIKE WEIR:  I think so.  It was impressive.  He's about a gazillion under his last three tournaments.  He's really on top of it right now.
Q.  Does it make it even tougher?  You love the challenge, but you're going against a guy who might be No. 1 of all time by the time he's done.  What does that do to your focus?
MIKE WEIR:  It's difficult, what can you say.  But it's also fun.  It's fun to be playing with a guy that's that talented, trying to figure out a way to get it done against a guy like that.

You know, you can only play with what you've been given and I don't possess a lot of power.  So I've got to figure out a way to do it different ways, but it's a fun challenge for me.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT