PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 19, 2006
Mike Weir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MIKE WEIR:  Thanks.
Q.  Just to take you back off today for one second, back to '99, the final round here, what did you learn then?
MIKE WEIR:  What did I learn then?  You know, I just don't think I was ready for    I was telling some of the guys earlier in the week, if it was just Tiger and I playing golf and without everything else on the periphery, it would have been probably a different story.  I wasn't ready for the commotion, and playing with Tiger in the final round of a major, people kind of forget that there's another player in the group.  It frustrated me a little bit that people are running when you're hitting.  I didn't handle all that stuff very well.  So you learn from that.

You know, I guess just those distractions that kind of come with being in the final group, you know, of a normal tournament, in a major it's that much greater, especially playing with him.  I learned a lot from that day.
Q.  What did the conditions allow you to do today, Mike?
MIKE WEIR:  It was the same as the first two days, even a little softer.  I just happened to have my irons dialed in really well today.  I drove it pretty good, but my irons were really, really solid.  You know, I rolled the putter good.  The ones that I made were great putts, and the other ones that I missed were all over the hole, as well.  I just had a good feel with my distance control today.
Q.  What's it going to take for somebody to stand up to Tiger on Sunday in a major?  You know his record.  What would it take for you or one of the other guys to do that?
MIKE WEIR:  You know that he's reaching all the par 5s, so as I said at the Buick Open, when I think I was three behind and he was three ahead going into the final round, so you know 68 is probably the worst he's going to shoot, so you probably have to shoot 65.  That's the mentality you have to have because he takes advantage of those par 5s and doesn't beat himself.  You don't want to be too far back.  You just want to be in the mix and to stand up to him.

It's not boxing.  You've just got to go out and play your own game.  I don't know what the other guys do, I just know I have to play my own game and it'll pan out.
Q.  What does it say about the longest layout in major history that the guy who might not be the longest off the tee is in the spot you're in?
MIKE WEIR:  Well, there's a few guys that aren't long.  Luke is about as long as I am, as well, and he's up there.  You know, the course obviously before the rain wasn't playing as long as the yardage I didn't feel, and some of the par 5s were reachable.  But the big factor is the greens.  The greens are soft, so you're flying a 5  and 6 iron in there and they're just holding right there, where if the greens were firm and fast, that could be a big difference a 6 iron to a 9 iron, and we don't have that this week.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT