RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 24, 2014
Mike Weir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You were the favorite of the crowd.   36‑34, you came back pretty good.   
MIKE WEIR:   You know what, 70 is not all that bad with the way I played.   I didn't play very well today, so felt like I struggled a little bit for some odd reason, so 70 is pretty good for struggling.  
   
 Q.   You're playing much better this year than last year or two years ago.   Why?   
MIKE WEIR:   Well, I'm healthier for one, and I just decided to work on things on my own and figure things out on my own, and I'm more confident.   My game feels good.  
   
 Q.   I remember about 10 years ago, 12 years ago at Glen Abbey, and you said, well, it's a mission to win an Open for Mike Weir because everybody wants him to be the next winner and everything.   Is it a different pressure this year?  
MIKE WEIR:   Yeah, probably.   Like you said, 10, 12 years ago, I was the No.3 player in the world, so there was more expectation.   But I still have expectations of myself.   I want to go out there and play well, and I expect to play well now, so there's still always pressure.   It's the Canadian Open, we all want to break that drought.   
   
 Q.   In the house even par; your thoughts on how you played today?  
MIKE WEIR:   It was a little ugly, really.   I didn't play very well, which is surprising.   I was feeling really good coming in here, and yesterday I drove it great in the pro‑am.   I was a little surprised I didn't drive it very well today.   Around this course you've got to find some more fairways, and I didn't do that, so all in all 70 is not too bad.  
   
 Q.   Six fairways, 10 greens and three of five sand saves.   When you look at all those numbers, what does that tell you?   
MIKE WEIR:   That it was just a little scrappy.   It was just a little scrappy.   I was having to scramble a little bit, and it was nice to make a couple birdies coming in.   But like you said, it was just kind of a scrambly day.  
   
 Q.   You made a 17‑footer at 16.   That got a big roar out of the gallery.   
MIKE WEIR:   It did.   It was nice to finally make one and then follow that up with a nice shot into 17 and birdie that hole.   That 17th hole has been good to me over the years, so it was nice to get a couple there.  
   
 Q.   I was with you in Vancouver where the pain was so much you had to walk off the golf course, and here you are.   Did you think when you were leaving that course that day that you'd be back in this position playing as good as you are?   
MIKE WEIR:   Well, you know, I didn't know.   The future was definitely in question.   I was hurting badly.   I went to see Dr.Jim Andrews down in Pensacola, and once he assessed it and fixed it, I knew it was going to be a long road back, but it's fun to be back and playing a little bit better.   
   
 Q.   How was the day for you?  
MIKE WEIR:   A little scrappy.   I didn't play particularly well today, so 70 is not too bad.   I'll go work on it right now and try to sort out a couple things, but all in all 70 is not too bad with the way I played.   
   
 Q.   Guys are saying this course is fairly straightforward and right in front of you.   
MIKE WEIR:   I find that when you play a golf course like this, big trees, the wind swirls around a little bit and it plays with your mind.   You think it's down and off the left, and it switches here and then it bounces around.   But good golf courses do that, and this is a great one.   
Just kind of caught me off guard a couple times and maybe didn't commit to my shot as much as I should have.  
   
 Q.   Is it a much different course?  
MIKE WEIR:   Yeah, I think so.   I think it's a pretty straightforward course when the wind is down.   It's right there in front of you, and then when the wind starts blowing you start having to aim maybe off the fairway a little bit, curve the ball a little bit more, and that's when this course gets a little bit harder.   
   
 Q.   The fact that you were able to get better, is that a big improvement from where you were a year or two years ago when you had the bad bouts?  
MIKE WEIR:   Yeah, I feel good.   I feel good, and I feel good with my game.   Today just wasn't great.   But compared to a couple years ago, yes, I feel much better with things.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT