BELL CANADIAN OPEN
September 9, 2005
Mike Weir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MIKE WEIR:  Didn't hit enough fairways, that was the bottom line all week really.  When I hit the fairways I seemed to hit a number of solid shots into the greens and converted.

You know, I made enough birdies that I could have got something going, but when I missed the fairway, it seemed like I made a big number or just made bogey.  That was the sum of my week, not hitting the fairway enough.
Q.  Hard playing catch up on this course?
MIKE WEIR:  Yeah, it's not the start I wanted, that's for sure.  I felt like I was swinging well.  I felt like it would be difficult to come back, but that's not the spot you want to be playing from.  You know, I was hitting the ball solid, just off the tee I miscued a few times and it cost me.
Q.  A little bit heartbreaking considering the way you finished last year and struggling this week?
MIKE WEIR:  I mean, last year is last year.  This is this year but it's disappointing, yeah.  I didn't play well.  I've got next week off and get ready for the Presidents Cup the following week, so I want to be in good form for that.

But I'm hitting a number of really good shots out there.  It's just a matter of putting a few things together and I didn't putt very good today.
Q.  What about the rough?  A lot of players have been very critical saying it's unfair, especially around the greens.
MIKE WEIR:  Yeah, it's pretty tough around the greens.  It's just a guess, you know, when you hit it in there, you have a shot that maybe could you play something.  But for the most part you are taking a slash at it and be lucky if you get close to the hole.  But the bottom line, everybody has to play it, so it's tough for everybody.
Q.  The fluctuating, plus four, plus five, back and forth, what was going through your mind on 18?
MIKE WEIR:  Well, I just wanted to get it in the fairway.  Off the tee I hit 3 wood trying to play a smart shot and just cut it a little too much, and it peeled off and hopped to the left, and like I said when you miss a fairway out here you're going to struggle.
Q.  Do you put more pressure on yourself playing at home, do you feel it, like it's the Canadian Open?
MIKE WEIR:  What do you think?  Yeah, of course.  Of course.  This is our National Championship.  You want to play well from the get go.  It's more pressure.  The people are cheering for me from the first hole on and it's fantastic, but at the same time, it's a little more difficult than a regular Tour event.
Q.  Did you have a number in mind when you were coming into the last few holes, a target?
MIKE WEIR:  Well, I saw the board.  I saw it probably plus four.  I made a great birdie on 5 and, you know, thought I might sneak one on 7.  I hit a great shot on 8 that flew a little further; otherwise it would have peeled right to the hole.  Like I said, I missed the fairway on 9.  I was thinking plus four, yeah.
Q.  Is it sort of one of those years, maybe just not quite there yet?
MIKE WEIR:  Yeah, I mean, there's a few things been happening with health wise, but I'm over that now.  I just didn't play well this week, as simple as that.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT