BELL CANADIAN OPEN
September 8, 2005
Mike Weir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  (Inaudible.)
MIKE WEIR:  It's just resilience, you just have to.  I've done that since I played the Canadian Tour, since I played over in Asia, since I played wherever, Australia, and you miss cuts, you do anything.  You've just got to battle back, you've got to get up in this game and shake the dust off and get back to work and each hole is a new challenge.  Each shot is a new challenge and that's the way I try to look at it today.  Sure, I got off to an awful start, and a lot of golf will be played and you never know.  When you play like that, the opportunity for it to turn around like it did today is there.  If you hang your head and sulking, it's not going to happen, you shoot 80.  I'm glad it turned out the way it did and it was a bonus on the last hole making that one and the leaders aren't too far away.  I feel good about the next few days.
Q.  Your driver
MIKE WEIR:  I hit it on the last hole but I retired it I guess after 12 or 13, 13 I thought I hit a really good shot.  Just didn't cut the way I wanted to and was up against the rough and I thought well I need to get the ball in the fairway.  I hit 5 wood on the next hole and made birdie and 3 wood on the next hole and hit a nice drive on 18, got the confidence up a little bit and hit a pretty good tee shot there.
Q.  Played well on the back nine?
MIKE WEIR:  I did.  I hit some nice wedges, even on the front side, I drive it in the rough on 1, hit a nice wedge on there, just didn't convert it, same with 4.  My wedge game has been much sharper and it helps when you can convert a few of those on the back nine and I did that.
Q.  If you can get through the front nine and the scoring opportunities on the back nine    inaudible?
MIKE WEIR:  Not that different, I think there are more opportunities on the back nine to make a few birdies but made the front nine play more difficult.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
MIKE WEIR:  It was an awesome feeling.  Like I said, they hung in there with me all day, and to make some birdies there coming in, I wanted to hit a good putt on last hole, that was pretty cool.
Q.  The way you finished this round, I guess it really built some momentum heading into round two tomorrow.
MIKE WEIR:  No question.  Some good things, going into tomorrow, I know what I need to go work on the range and I can relax.  I feel good about tomorrow.  I've got myself right back there.
Q.  Does this place remind you of anywhere?
MIKE WEIR:  I would say the golf course overall feel reminds me a little bit of Sahalee.  But the rough is very different than anything I've played really.  Just the way the ball sits in there it just is so buried, maybe a little bit like PGA at Baltusrol.

But at Baltusrol, you seem to get a few good ones, some you could advance.  The few I had were just absolutely done and just luck of the draw sometimes.  But for the most part I would say 90 percent of the balls that go in are hack it out.
Q.  Can you walk us through some of the changes you made and does that explain some of the errant shots?
MIKE WEIR:  Well, it's little small things in my fundamentals that I've tried to work on the biggest thing I would say is just my posture just because my posture got out of whack when my back was bothering me and I wasn't able to get in the right positions.  That's the biggest thing I've been really work on and Mike's been hammering on me to nail down.  I felt myself coming out of that posture a little bit, just a little fatigue in my back maybe a little bit.
Q.  What changed from the front nine to the back nine?
MIKE WEIR:  Getting it in the fairways and getting it in my wheel house, which is my wedge game.  14, hitting a 5 iron off the tee, gave myself a full wedge playing the par 5s smart, instead of trying to force 1 up there I hit 3 wood off the tee and hit a wedge.  15, I actually hit a great wedge in there, too, but didn't convert it.

I think those things, you build on the momentum.  With the wedges, you make a few putts and things just turn around.
Q.  We were with you the first 12 holes, you looked as frustrated as I've ever seen you look.  How did you feel inside?
MIKE WEIR:  I didn't feel like I looked that frustrated.  Obviously I'm disappointed, but I was still battling and just trying each shot to get in there with the same execution in mind, trying to do the same thing, trying to stick to my game plan and turn it around.
Q.  Can you talk about his game a little bit and do you think he's going to come back?
MIKE WEIR:  Ian, yeah, he's coming back from injury.  It's good to see him playing well and get him getting back out here and playing well.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT