U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 18, 2004
Mike Weir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Mike Weir, go through your birdies and bogeys.
 MIKE WEIR:  Bogeyed 2.  I hit it in the bunker, out 15 feet and missed it.

5, I birdied the par-5, I almost rolled in a long eagle putt, tapped in there.

6 I made a double bogey, hit it left and in the bunker, and actually had a pretty clean lie, except there was a stone, and came out left, and that was a bad break, there.

Hit a really good shot there, next hole, and 3-putted it.

And then started coming around.  I birdied the next hole, hit a wedge in there, five or six feet.  I birdied 11, almost holed it, hit it three or four inches right behind the hole.

On 13, thought I had an uphill, 25-foot uphill and ran it 8 feet by on 13, so made bogey there.

I came back and made about a 15-footer, 20-footer on 14.

And about a 15-footer for birdie on 16.
Q.  Did you think it was in on 11?
 MIKE WEIR:  It looked like it was -- I couldn't quite tell, but it looked like it had a good chance.
Q.  (Inaudible).
 MIKE WEIR:  Uh-huh.
Q.  Do you consider it a good putting ground?  You made a bunch of putts?
 MIKE WEIR:  It was a little bit indifferent.  I think as the round went on I started putting better.  I started off missing a number of short putts.  It was a little bit frustrating.  I've got to work on it.  I was a little bit off.  But I started rolling a few putts later.
Q.  (Inaudible).
 MIKE WEIR:   I was trying to lay it up -- I laid it up off the tee into the flat.  It's almost impossible in the bottom of the hill to keep it in the fairway.  A chased up with a 5-wood, and that was my spot to miss it.
Q.  You hit a smart shot out of the rough, there, too, to get up on the green and just lost that.
 MIKE WEIR:  I hit a really good putt there, 8, 10 feet from the hole, looked like it was breaking right in.  As you could tell from Joey's putt.  That was difficult, right on a side slope, and above that hole it was a lot tougher than I thought.  I didn't see that severe past the hole.
Q.  You talked about the stones and the bunkers, is there any way to tell?
 MIKE WEIR:   It's pretty stuff.  You see -- the one on 16, as soon as I hit it 16, Joey saw the stone some flying out of there, and went by 15 feet.  And I made that putt, but you can't predict that.  It's so crunchy underneath with tons of little pebbles and sand and rocks underneath.  It's pretty tough to judge it.
Q.  (Inaudible).
 MIKE WEIR:  It was so good, I thought -- I felt like I made good contact on that, which I did, but it just came out of there really squirrelly with the stone.  And I figured I'd chase a 4-iron and be right in front of the green or something.  And for whatever it was worth, if it came out straight it would be perfect.
Q.  The second shot on 14, was rough to give yourself a shot?
 MIKE WEIR:  That was rough, definitely.  To get some momentum back.
Q.  Are there birdies out there to be made if the wind were to kick up and conditions were to change?
 MIKE WEIR:  No, there's not seven or eight birdies out there if the wind is howling, but with the conditions today, it's soft, with that heavy air overnight, and it keeps the greens that much softer, you're able to sneak the ball closer to the hole than you normally would.  If the greens are blowing and the greens are harder Michael could have shot seven or eight under, even if he would have made some putts.
Q.  Does that draw you in to be more aggressive?
 MIKE WEIR:  You've got to be careful with that.  That's what the USGA does, to tempt you.  The pins were in such tough spots, if you take them on and are in the wrong spot, you're worse.  It's a delicate balance.  You have to figure how well you're swinging it.  A lot of factors play into it.
Q.  How do you like your position going into the weekend?
 MIKE WEIR:  It's great.  Probably be four or five shots out of the lead, but that's where I want to be, right here.
Q.  Are you where you thought you'd be coming in, are you in good shape?
 MIKE WEIR:  I haven't been playing well, and you have to build your confidence back up.  My confidence isn't normally where it is if I'm playing well.  You have to take baby steps.  You can't get out there and be flying at flags, and trying to be that aggressive.  I started coming around, I could have shot maybe three or four under, but hopefully it will be there tomorrow.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT