FBR OPEN
January 31, 2004
Mike Weir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
A lot of sub-par conditions today, but a lot of really great rounds out there. 

MIKE WEIR:  I'm surprised.  I thought it played much tougher than the first two days and yet the scores are better than the first few days. 

Just coming into the last few holes here, it's dark.  It's like it's getting close to 6:00 rather than 4:00, so it's kind of tough to see, actually.


Q.  (Inaudible). 

MIKE WEIR:  Well, I played solid.  I made a little miscue on 11, but other than that I played real solid, hit it in the fairway, hit most of the greens, and made a couple putts, but I'd like to get a couple more coming in.  I had a couple of chances there, but all in all I'm in good position.


Q.  You have Flesch, Mickelson and yourself, a lot of lefties on the board.  That's pretty rare. 

MIKE WEIR:  Lefties on the board, I don't know.  Maybe it sets up for the lefties or something, but we're doing all right.


Q.  (Inaudible). 

MIKE WEIR:  He played a good game.  He made some great birdies out in some tough places today and hung in there well after he made a miscue on 13 and made a couple nice birdies coming in.  He's a nice, aggressive player and he's got a good temperament.


Q.  What do you think of the atmosphere on 16?

MIKE WEIR:  Oh, it was nuts today, crazy, but you know going in there Saturday and Sunday, when you're close to the lead especially, that that hole is going to be loud.  It was fun. 

I hit a great shot in there and I lipped out a putt for 2, so it would have been great to make that one.


Q.  Going into tomorrow it looks like maybe three or four back.  Is there a mindset as to what you're going to try to do?

MIKE WEIR:  I need to get my putter warmed up.  All week I haven't been putting too well.  I made a couple on the back nine, but if I can just make a few more it'll be easier tomorrow.


Q.  What are your feelings on the Super Bowl?  Any preference?

MIKE WEIR:  I don't know.  I'm kind of just, like the analysts said, I think it's going to be a close game but I kind of like New England.



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT