THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
November 9, 2003
Mike Weir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MIKE WEIR:   I played good today.  That's kind of the way it's gone the last couple months.  I've been playing pretty well.  Today I felt like I played well.  I'm just not scoring very well.  When I hit it close, I hit it close for five holes in a row and not make them.  And then hit one shot a little off line and not get up-and-down and all of a sudden you're 1-over for those holes.  And that's the way it goes sometimes. 


Q.   Who do you think is going to be the Player of the Year?

MIKE WEIR:   I don't know.  It's up in the air.  It's up in the air.  Depends what guys value as -- what they see as valuable.  A lot of the media has been talked up about Vijay and Tiger.  I think that that's big time, which is deservedly so.  But I think that I have as much right to it as anybody else.  That's the way I see it.  But it doesn't mean that 160-some guys will see it that way.  I don't know.  I haven't played that great at the end of the year.  I haven't played poorly, but I haven't played the greatest at the end of the year.  Obviously I think that momentum is on Vijay's side.  He's got more attention about his season. 


Q.   What will you do in the off-season?  You got business to do?

MIKE WEIR:   There is no off-season, really. 


Q.   Well, maybe a better question would be, will you take any time off?

MIKE WEIR:   Well, I have two after Tiger's event until Mercedes, so that's really only two weeks.  That's it. 


Q.   What have you got after the Presidents Cup?  What have you got?

MIKE WEIR:   I've got a week off and then the PGA Grand Slam.  And then after that it's Tiger's event and then two weeks off, and then going to Hawaii again. 


Q.   Are you anticipating playing with Gretski at Pebble Beach again?

MIKE WEIR:   I don't think.  So I'm playing with my old partner, George Roberts. 


Q.   So this was kind of a one-time deal?

MIKE WEIR:   Yeah. 


Q.   Do you think that's good for you, not to take some time off?

MIKE WEIR:   Not necessarily.  Being up in Canada I've been used to all my life taking a lot of time off in the winter.  And this year I'm not going to be able to.  Last year was the first time in a long time I was able to take three months off.  And look at the kind of start I got off to.  So I've always been good after a nice break, but unfortunately, I'm not able to have that.  But at some point during the year I'm going to take an extended break.  I'm not sure when that's going to be, but I will take an extended break, maybe a month off at some point. 


Q.   A lot of this stuff isn't exactly by choice, is it?

MIKE WEIR:   Yeah, you can't really skip the Grand Slam.  And the Presidents Cup is really important.  I was scheduled to play Tiger's tournament two years ago and I didn't play because I wanted the time off.  And so I felt like I should play this year.  So I'll find some time to get away early in the year. 



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT