MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2014
Mike Weir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   (No Microphone.)  
MIKE WEIR:   It's a tough golf course.   You can make a 6, 7 or 8 in a heartbeat out there.   
   
 Q.   Making the cut has kind of been a bit of trouble the last few years.   
MIKE WEIR:   Yeah, I was in contention and trying to put myself in there for a position on the weekend.   I'm not as close as I would like, but I'm there.   
If I play well tomorrow, I can put myself right in this tournament.   It was nice to see a few putts go in.   This is really the first round all year that I've made some putts.   It was nice to see.   
   
 Q.   What's the key to playing the 8th hole?   I know you had a birdie on it today.   
MIKE WEIR:   Well, I did it unconventionally, I guess.   I drove it in the fairway bunker, I laid up and it hit that knob in the fairway and rolled backwards 40 yards.   I proceeded to hit a 6‑iron to about eight feet.   
That's not really the way you draw it up, but the key is getting it in the fairway and then you can get it up near the green and get the ball up‑and‑down.  
   
 Q.   Did you find you were getting excited at the turn?  
MIKE WEIR:   No, I mean, it's fun, no doubt about it, but I know, my experience is enough that I know not to get too excited, that it's Friday, and that the golf course is brutal.   It's just playing so difficult out there.   
Number 10, I'm off a down slope, 220 yards.   
Number 11, I have 265 yards for my second shot.   
You're just trying to survive those holes.   So to get through there with only one bogey was good.   
Things just didn't quite turn out.   I thought I hit a great pitch on 13 that hit really hard.   
I thought I hit a great 5‑iron into 14.   The first bounce bounced over the mound.   It could have easily hit into the hill and rolled close.   I was in an awkward spot then.   
So you get a couple of those little bounces and I'm definitely two or three shots better.   But that's what you need.   You need those things to happen for you.  
   
 Q.   Great putt at 12 that didn't fall.   
MIKE WEIR:   Yeah, great putt at 12 that just was unbelievable that it stayed there.   As many as went in on the front, they just seemed to hold the edges on back side.  
   
 Q.   You almost did the practice round thing and got an ace on 16 with your second ball.   
MIKE WEIR:   I did.   I did.   It was a heck of a four.   I'm proud of that four.   
   
 Q.   With Bubba on top, what is it about you lefties here?  
MIKE WEIR:   Well, his length, obviously.   Lefty or righty, I mean, hitting it that far is a big advantage.   I don't think he probably had 265 into 11 today.   
(Laughter.)  
He probably had 165 or something.  
   
 Q.   Yeah, but still there's so many lefties winning the last few of these.   
MIKE WEIR:   Yeah, no, point taken.   I think a lot of the holes set up well for us, hitting a fade.   I know Bubba likes to work the ball.   He's a creative guy.   Phil is as well.   I think there's something there, for sure.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT