RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 28, 2013
Mike Weir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Can you talk about finishing up today? 
MIKE WEIR:   Well, the course was a little different today.   It had a little different wind, a little stronger wind.   A lot of the holes, except for maybe 6 and 10, I think, or 9.   I mean, 6 and 8, sorry‑‑ were downwind, the rest were crosswind, so it was tough to find the fairway on some of those tee shots, so I thought it played more difficult today.

Q.   Did you feel you hit the ball well? 
MIKE WEIR:   Yeah, I'm playing fine.   Just missing too many short putts.   I missed a number the last couple days inside six, seven feet, just missing way too many of those.   You need those to keep your round going sometimes and I just didn't capitalize when I had opportunities.   Just I had one good day of putting and the rest not very good.

Q.   Can you take away that one good day as opposed to the other three days and go from there?
MIKE WEIR:   That's what I've been doing the last couple months.   I've been right on the verge of playing really well, and not quite getting it done.   So, yeah, there were some good signs this week, for sure, but I've been seeing that for a couple months.   It was just a little frustrating because I thought I played better this week.

Q.   You have two tournaments left to make some more noise.   What, starting next week? 
MIKE WEIR:   Yeah, next week, I'll go to Reno Tuesday, probably.   I'm going to go home for a day.   Yeah, Reno Tuesday, little different format for a tournament, so it will be kind of fun.

Q.   What's it like to walk up the 18th fairway and have applause every day here whether you're T3 or T55?   What's it like here? 
MIKE WEIR:   It's wonderful, to have great support like that is special.   I've said that before.   Not many guys kind of get that feeling to represent your country and to have that sense of pride.   You know t feels great.   I'll say that.
Q.   You had a chance to play with some of the young Canadians.   You've seen some of the young Canadians.   Are you even more impressed with what's coming up?
MIKE WEIR:   Yeah, I think the country has a lot of talent.   I think going forward, there are going to be some of these younger guys getting out there.   We have a few of us on TOUR now and the future is bright.   So, yeah, I'd love to see guys get through and keep progressing along nicely, but there is a lot of talent in this country for sure.

Q.   How would you compare last year's performance at the Canadian Open to this year's performance? 
MIKE WEIR:   It's totally different, yeah.

Q.   Are you thinking at all about the Olympics yet? 
MIKE WEIR:   Yeah, it's definitely in the back of my mind.   We haven't heard much about it from‑‑ I don't even know who is our governing‑‑ I'm assuming it's Golf Canada making the decision on that and how that all works out.   Yeah, it's in the back of my mind, but we really haven't had any formal team discussions, I guess.

Q.   That is a goal, obviously, for you? 
MIKE WEIR:   Yeah, I'd love to play.   That would be really cool.   Yeah, I'd love to play.

Q.   Where would you like to see this tournament go beyond? 
MIKE WEIR:   Golf course‑wise?   (Indiscernible) I'd love to see it.   There are great golf courses in the country.   We play a lot of them, Hamilton and Shaughnessy and Royal Montreal next year, so I'd love to see it, hopefully get to Bell.   I think out West is great too.   I'd love to see the tournament continuing to west as well.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT