MASTERS TOURNAMENT
November 12, 2020
Mike Weir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How would you sum up that round? 
MIKE WEIR: I would say it was a good round. I didn't really capitalize on a lot of things. I missed a really short putt on 2, had some good looks and didn't quite get them in. But all in all, it was a nice solid start to the tournament. 
Again, my short game is not‑‑ putting especially is not quite sharp enough. I had 31 putts or something. I've got to get that to mid‑20s, so hopefully that can get better. 

Q. Is this the most excited you've felt in a long time? Did you feel a lot of confidence when you teed off this morning? 
MIKE WEIR: I feel very confident around here. I felt great. The course obviously is playing super long for me, but the greens are soft enough that if you have some long clubs in you can get the ball to stop on these greens. Yeah, I feel very confident. I feel a little disappointed in that 71, where the last 10 years I would have been thrilled with that. All in all, though, still a pretty good start. 

Q. Conditions of the golf course when you went out, did it start to dry up? Did you get any mud balls? 
MIKE WEIR: It dried up very, very well. Yes, we all had some mud balls, particularly if you hit it just in that first cut of rough it's very sandy and the ball‑‑ I landed one there on 7, picked up some mud. But other than that, the course, unbelievable that it's dried that much. The last four or five holes it was pretty dry. 

Q. When you've been playing out here, you've had the cheers, you've had the roars. What's it like out here to make a big shot or a big putt and hear crickets? 
MIKE WEIR: Yeah, it kind of feels like a round with your friends. It does. You still have the tournament‑‑ you know it's a tournament and you have the tournament energy, but it's a completely different feel. Part of this tournament, what makes it so special is the patrons and the roars. Of course we're not there yet. Hopefully in April they'll be able to get back. But it's still nice playing with two great guys, and they battled and hung in there well. Looking forward to tomorrow. 

Q. Game plan for tomorrow? 
MIKE WEIR: Similar. My game plan is just plotting along. I have to continue to hit fairways, and on the long holes I've got to try to get to the center of the green and try to find a way to make par, and then when I've got a wedge in my hand on the par‑5s and 3 and things like that, I have to be very aggressive with those shots and try to make birdie on those holes. I only did it once today, so that's a little disappointing. I birdied 13, which was the only wedge in my hand that I birdied out of the five wedges that I had. If I could clean that up, maybe I could get the score down a couple tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT