BOB HOPE CHRYSLER CLASSIC
January 31, 2003
Mike Weir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







JOE CHEMYCZ:  Mike, thank you for joining us.  We appreciate you checking in.  Could you just talk a little bit about your round today.
MIKE WEIR:   Yeah, it was another solid day.  I didn't get off to the start I wanted.  I think I parred the first five holes, and then I birdied the last four on the front side.  Maybe I birdied four of the last five.  Made four more birdies on the back  -- five more birdies on the back, actually, mixed in with two bogeys. 
I 3-putted 10.  Then banged it off a tree on 16 and made a bogey.  Other than that, I played really nicely. 

Q.  This is 54 holes now, 20-under par, but you still have a weekend left.  Do you start to look at it like this really is a marathon at this point?
MIKE WEIR:   You know going in it's going to be a long week.  As I started the week, I figured somewhere around 30-under would win the tournament.  You know, you just keep plugging away and put the pedal down here if you're going to have a chance to win.  That's what everybody is going to have to do the next two days. 

Q.  Everybody was saying that the conditions have been perfect so far, but was it a little warm out there today even for such perfect conditions?
MIKE WEIR:   Actually, it was warm today.  It was still very nice, but still a little warmer than what we are used to down here.  It wasn't too bad.  I'm not complaining about it after coming from Salt Lake City. 

Q.  They talk about 30-under or 32-under.  Do you chop that up and think you have to shoot 66 or 67 every day?
MIKE WEIR:   I think still, that number is still in the back of my mind, to try to get into the low 30s.  I don't want to get complacent out there and get into a lull with a bunch of pars.  You still want to keep on pushing a little bit.  At the same time, you still don't want to get crazy and shoot for something you shouldn't. 
I think still in the back of your mind, you know it's going to be in the 30s.  The forecast is supposed to be good over the weekend, as well. 

Q.  Are you going to play next week at Pebble Beach?
MIKE WEIR:   Yes, I am. 

Q.  How hard is it to go back to back celebrity Pro-Ams, real slow pace, etc.? 
MIKE WEIR:   Well, you just have to pace yourself and know they are going to be long days, but try to enjoy the company of the guys that you are with.  I've had great groups so far this week and next week, Wayne Gretzky and I are going to be a team down there at Pebble, and I'm going to be playing with my old partner, Joe Roberts. 

Q.  How did you hookup with Gretzky and how exciting is that for you? 
MIKE WEIR:   We've talked about it at a charity tournament every summer, where it's myself against three hockey players, himself and two other guys.  It's been Brett Hull and one other guy in each of the last three years. 
Wayne and I have talked about it.  The All-Star Game has fallen on the weekend of the tournament and he has not been able to play the last few years.  But this year it does not conflict, so he's able to do it. 
I'm looking forward to it.  Should be a good time. 

Q.  Torrey Pines, you are playing this year, right?
MIKE WEIR:   Yes, I'm scheduled to. 

Q.  Now that Torrey has the Open and the South Course has been redone, how would you rate Torrey Pines with the rest of the West Coast Swing now?  Obviously, it doesn't have quite the history of some of the other events, but how would you rate the golf course overall?
MIKE WEIR:   Unfortunately, I didn't play it last year.  I skipped the Nissan in San Diego for the Olympics in Salt Lake.  I didn't get to see the changes in Torrey Pines.  I thought the golf course was pretty good anyways. 
Obviously they have added a lot of length and it's going to be much more challenging.  That's how   -- until I see it, I guess I can't answer that properly. 

Q.  Now that it does have the U.S. Open, will it be something that's fairly automatic on your schedule, to try to get as many rounds in on the course as possible?
MIKE WEIR:   I think so.  Definitely, it's still a ways away, 2008.  Still, it's good to get familiar with the golf course, especially where a major is going to be at.  Yeah, that would be a fairly regular stop on my rotation. 
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Real quick, if you could just take us through your birdies and bogeys, starting with the birdie at 5. 
MIKE WEIR:   5 was a par 5.  I guess I hit a driver and a 5-iron into the bunker and probably about a 7-foot putt there. 
6, it was in the green-side bunker in two and hit it. 
9, I made a drive and a wedge to maybe six feet.
10, I made a bogey, with a drive and an 8-iron and 3-putted from 35 feet. 
Probably about a 25-foot putt for birdie on 11. 
Birdie on 12. 
14, the par  5, I hit drive and a 6-iron and 2-putted that.
I made probably about a 10-foot putt for birdie. 
I missed a tee shot on 16 that hit the palm tree on the left side and had about a 12-foot putt for par. 
18, hit it short of the green and chipped up about four feet and made it. 
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Perfect.  We sure appreciate it.  Thank you.  Play well the west of the weekend. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT