ADVIL WESTERN OPEN
July 7, 2001
Mike Weir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MIKE WEIR:  Well today I was very similar to the first two days.  Played nice and solidly, just snuck in a couple more putts today.  I was 2-under through nine holes and birdied both par 5s, that was it really.  I had a few other chances but didn't convert.  I birdied 11, had a good chance on 10 from about ten feet, burned the edge, birdied 11.  Only bogey on 12, 9-iron right at pin, came out a yard short from the bunker; didn't hit a good bunker shot, easy bunker shot six feet.  Missed the putt. 
 
Q.  Did the rain have any effect on the way the course played today?
 
MIKE WEIR: Well, yeah, the last few holes the greens got softer.  Let me finish going over my round.  Then I hit on 15 a drive and I hit a 5-wood from about 230 yards that hit the pin and was about 15 feet.  Hit the pin on the fly.  I made that putt for eagle.  Then a driver  -- 3-wood, 9-iron on 16 made about a 15-foot putt.  Parred the last two holes.  
 
Q.  Talk about the conditions.
 
MIKE WEIR: The greens -- obviously the ball stopped a little sooner on the greens.  Balls not running in the fairways like it was starting to.  It was starting to firm up - like this course can play much harder and firmer.  The rain did soften it up a little bit.  But not too much.  I don't think we got enough rain that it really affected it big-time.  The  balls were still running out a little bit in the fairway.  My shots into 15, 16, 17 all stopped pretty good, but 18th green was still very firm.  I had a shot in there, bounced good and firm.  I don't think it affected it a whole lot.  It will be pretty firm today as long as we don't get anymore rain. 
 
Q.  (Inaudible)
 
MIKE WEIR: I started on 13, a good birdie putt on 13 and 14, missed them both and then made the eagle on 15. 
 
Q.  How far did you miss on those two holes?
 
MIKE WEIR: I was probably 20 feet, both of them, but good putts.  Good looks up the hill and good looks at them. 
 
Q.  Could you hear it? (Inaudible)
 
MIKE WEIR: Could I hear it?  Yeah, it hit dead smack on the fly.  It was coming in right on top of the pin, it looked like, you know, perfect.   They said just a couple of feet up on the pin.  Somebody said that I couldn't tell but you could hear it from back there. You could hear it.  Good thing it stayed on the green, I was lucky enough that it kind of scooted back probably 15 feet and sometimes those things can go anywhere.  So especially a shot that far away from 228 yards I think it was, so sometimes those will go, in the bunker and the rough, you never know. 
 
Q.  Not hard to get warmed up again after the delay?
 
MIKE WEIR: No.  We had  another half hour to hit some balls.  I went out and hit a few balls, hit a few putts.  That  got me loosened up.  If we didn't have that, yeah, it would be difficult. 
 
Q.  You have good memories about playing here?
 
MIKE WEIR: Yeah, I started -- back then I started the day 4 back and hopefully that would be a good thing if I am only 4 back starting tomorrow.  That's probably wishful thinking as the course has been playing as tough as it was becoming with the rain now.  Those guys have some holes to play, so you never know.  You never know in this game but I would suspect that Davis will probably be like 13, maybe even more, who knows.  
 
Q.  Did you have a feeling as far as they moved that par 3 back on 6, what was your feeling as far as pushing that back that far; what kind of club did you use?
 
MIKE WEIR: I was right between 3-iron and 5-wood.  I went with the 5-wood, it ended up being okay just in the back portion.  But yeah, I think -- I mean, we had three groups to wait on when we got there.  That tee normally you don't have a wait there, obviously, it kind of backed things up a little bit because it was playing so long.  I don't think they need to do that on that hole really. 
 
Q.  TV was saying that he thought that for a long hole it with a pretty small target in there, did you feel the same way?
 
MIKE WEIR: Yeah, especially when they put the pin back and they had it on a little bit of a dicey spot over there in the right.  So they were waiving groups through because we were getting behind on that hole, right after the par 5, then playing 250 yard par 3, so, I think that next tee that we play it at is 220, I think that's a good number for it. 
 
Q.  If he shoots a mediocre round or poor round, Tiger always seems to get in the headlines.  Is that fair to other players who might be playing well and having a very good round?
 
MIKE WEIR: Well, I mean, I don't know if that's fair or not.  But you know, he draws most headlines obviously and he deservedly so, obviously the streak he has been on he has been playing so well when he is not playing his best, you know, probably going to write about it.  I don't know if it's - -  it doesn't bother me, so if you are asking me, it doesn't bother me. 
 
Q.  Are players surprised in anyway that Davis had such a long layoff and he is coming back as strong he is?
 
MIKE WEIR: I don't think so.  Davis is a solid player and I have been off 4 of the last 5 weeks myself, so I haven't been playing very much at all  - two weeks off before the U.S. Open and two weeks after.  So I am a little rusty myself.  I don't think so.  I think guys when they are taking time off -- I know he has been a little injured.  I am sure he has been working on his short game and he might not tell you that but I am sure he has been working on it a little bit. 
 
Q.  Tough to shake off the rust or did you feel today kind of feel like you were in a groove?
 
MIKE WEIR: Yeah, I think the biggest thing for me is scoring-wise, you know, I was hitting the ball pretty well first couple of days.  I think that's where I noticed it the most was the little shots around the green, saving a few shots here and there that I wasn't doing the first couple of days.  Just a couple of easy up-and-downs that I didn't make and today they seemed more routine I guess, the little shots and that's from lack of playing, I think. 
 
Q.  How did you spend your time off?
 
MIKE WEIR: Oh, we moved into a new house a couple months ago so I have been digging dirt and trying to landscape the place and cutting grass, and trying to get it all in order and then just hanging out with my two kids. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT