RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 25, 2013
Mike Weir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   So, Mike, probably not the best round considering how well you hit the ball, but obviously there are some good signs in your game today.   So maybe you can assess your start for us and we'll open it up for some questions? 
MIKE WEIR:   Yeah, I thought I played great today.   I couldn't have asked to play much better.   I obviously scored very poorly for the way I played.   So I'll go try to work on some things, putting, and tomorrow morning we'll get some nice greens and hopefully get something to go in the hole.

Q.   You remember a round like that where you hit it so well and had the frustration of the putts going in? 
MIKE WEIR:   I'm sure I had them.   It happens.   It happens.   But you know, it's kind of frustrating to play.   I've been working hard on my game, and putting hasn't really‑‑ I haven't even thought about working hard on it because I couldn't make anything, so that's okay.   Tomorrow I'll get it going.

Q.   Do you think you take something away from that, Mike, the fact that you've been working, as you say, so hard on the driving and trying to get that down, that there's almost something positive where you can now focus it away from that?   When you say start working on some putting, and from the eight or nine holes I watched, you drove the ball solidly.   I didn't see any issues?
MIKE WEIR:   Yeah, exactly.   I do take that away for sure.   To be able to not spend so much time on the long game and spend more time on my short game going forward.   Yeah, I mean, my wedge game felt good.   Just, yeah, it was a combo.   I didn't quite get the speeds down.   The speed wasn't quite there and with the greens late in the day like this, they speed up so they're kind of running over those little indentations around the hole.   My ball was kind of dead speed around the hole, so it was kind of catching some things around the hole and not knowing.

Q.   Some of the guys had commented that the greens are inconsistent speeds.   Did you get that feeling? 
MIKE WEIR:   Yeah, there were a few out there, but, yeah, they were there.

Q.   What could the score have been?   I saw four or five early on that could have been‑‑
MIKE WEIR:   I could have easily been six, seven, eight under, who knows.   You get rolling.   You have a good putting day, and that's a 63, right?   I was close to the hole lot, especially earlier in the round, eight‑footer on 1, eight‑footer on 2, decent on 3, and close on 4 and 5.   Just couldn't buy one.

Q.   Did you throw your hands up in surprise on 16 when the one finally went in? 
MIKE WEIR:   Yeah, shoot, to see it go in the middle, when you see enough of a mess, I was just happy to see one go in.   Then I made a four‑footer on number 10 for par, that little four or five footer and that was it.   I didn't make anything over that.   That was the two longest putts. 

Q.   The way you're hitting the ball right now, is this the most confidence you've felt in your game in a while?   Do you feel like you can make a charge tomorrow morning? 
MIKE WEIR:   I feel like I can make a charge tomorrow morning.   The last couple of months I've felt good with my game, most days.   Like any golfer, you're going to have your bad days too.   But I go to the tee feeling confident, and today was a nice day ball‑strikingwise and just a bit of a shame that I didn't capitalize. 
But tomorrow, like I said, maybe the conditions are right for scoring, a lot of low scores were in the morning rounds, not in the afternoon.

Q.   Is it easier when you come to a place like this where you don't have to think about the golf course too much, you know your lines and things?
MIKE WEIR:   Yeah, definitely.   You stay on the tee and you kind of know the wind direction changing alters your target a little bit.   But for the most part, you have to have a game plan.   You can fall into a nice comfort level if you do start striking well.   That's kind of what happened today.   I felt good and confident, and as the day went on I got more and more.   Just unfortunate, I hit a beautiful tee shot on 17.   I don't know what I hit.   But then I hit a really good bunker shot too, so just those things happen sometimes. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT