BELLSOUTH CLASSIC
April 1, 2001
Mike Weir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MIKE WEIR:  My round was a great round.  I'm really happy with the way I'm playing going into next week.  You know, I got off to a great start.  Started on the backside, bunker shot for an eagle.  That really got me going.  I had a couple chances through the next hole, next two holes.  On 13, I made a bad mistake.  My only bogey today.  I guess I made two bogeys today.  I hit it probably 12 feet for birdie above the hole, got a little aggressive on that putt.  At that point I still felt like I wasn't out of the tournament, even though I was probably seven shots back.  I felt with the conditions playing tough, I felt good about the way I was swinging.  Kind of gave that putt a little extra.  Went about six feet by, missed it coming back.  I made a realistic birdie chance that turned into a bogey.  I had some chances through the rest of the backside, then hit a great shot into 18, a good drive, 5-wood, to about three feet for eagle.  Made that.  
 
MIKE WEIR:  Right in the front bunker.  Maybe a 20-yard bunker shot.  Then through the front side I was playing very well.  Just missed one on 1.  Made a 15-footer on No.  2.  Hit it right in front of the green on the par 5, chipped it up there probably five feet, made that one.  Got a little unlucky on the next hole.  Hit a good drive, in between an 8- and 9-iron.  Went with the 8-iron.  The wind gusted, caught the slope, rolled all the way back down, didn't get it up and down.  Made a bogey there.  I had a few chances coming in.  Hit a real close shot on the last hole.  Good drive, 8-iron to probably five feet on my last hole, made that putt.  All in all, it was a really good day.  Felt like maybe I left a couple out there, but I couldn't ask for much more.  
 
Q.  You started this tournament with a 76.  You didn't look pleased coming off the last hole.  Talk about what a turnaround finishing second.
 
MIKE WEIR:  You know, I just really didn't play well the first round.  Actually, my last nine holes of that first round I started playing better, hitting the ball a little more solidly.  Just came out with a more relaxed attitude the second round.  Really played well.  I think, you know, I learned a lot from my win in Spain last year in Valderrama.  I was eight shots behind going into the weekend, won that tournament.  That was my mentality, that I feel like I'm never out of a tournament, no matter where I'm at.  I'm really happy for Scott that he won today, but I really had a good shot today.  I guess I was probably eight shots back going into the final round.  Realistically without a couple of those mistakes, I could have really given it a go here.  
 
Q.  Do you feel like you had nothing to lose after the first round, help you swing a little more freely?
 
MIKE WEIR:  No, it wasn't that.  It was just really finding my game and finding my swing.  I was just a little off.  I don't know why.  I kind of stuck with my same plan, stuck with my routine.  It's amazing when you do stick with, you know, the process of what you're doing, how it starts to come around.  I guess that is through experience.  Before maybe I've been in years past in search mood trying to find something.  I just kind of stuck with the same thing, kept at it.  It happened to come around. 
 
Q.  In addition to playing 36 today, pretty tough conditions out there.  You seem to get better in the second 18.  Did you get into a rhythm?
 
MIKE WEIR:  Yeah, I think part of it is, you know, you're playing 36 holes.  I felt like I was swinging really well today.  I was glad there were a lot of holes to play.  I wanted to keep going.  I had a nice flow going in my game.  It was good that I was playing a lot of holes.  Conditioning is not really a problem for me so I wasn't tired at all.  I was glad to play that many holes. 
 
Q.  But with the wind, did you ever think it was working to your advantage or disadvantage?
 
MIKE WEIR:  It was just difficult really for everybody, disadvantage for everybody.  The mentality is difficult for everybody.  Just got to keep hanging in there, you're going to get a few funny wind gusts here and there unexpected, but it's going to happen to everybody.  It doesn't blow the way you want.  You have to accept those and kind of keep with it.  
 
Q.  Was it at all weird today, you were playing the last group on the other 9, not many people left coming through, weird when you're in contention, there's hardly anybody out there?
 
MIKE WEIR:  Yeah, it's a lot different being on the other side of the golf course, not in the mix of everything.  This week, unfortunately the way it paned out with the weather, that caused that.  But still it was difficult.  I felt the adrenaline flowing definitely because I felt I was in the tournament still.  Still exciting coming down the last few holes either though the other leaders were on the other side. 
 
Q.  Have you played in worse conditions than this?
 
MIKE WEIR:  You know, the final round here today was very similar to the third round at Augusta last year, very blustery, very similar conditions.  I had a really good score that day in those conditions.  My ball flight is pretty low.  I'm usually pretty good in the wind. 
 
Q.  You only had to play 18 holes there. 
 
MIKE WEIR:  Yeah.  The wind actually picked up a little bit more in the afternoon.  The first 18 this morning, it was a little bit more predictable.  This afternoon I felt like it was a little more up and down, a little more unpredictable.  
 
Q.  You made one of your first splashes here a couple years ago, leaderboard into the final day.  Is your game well-suited to this course?  Do you like this course?
 
MIKE WEIR:  Yeah, I do like this golf course.  I think it's a very well-designed golf course.  It sets up well for me.  You know, I just feel comfortable around here.  I think it shows.  I've had some good success around here. 
 
Q.  People play here because they think it's a great practice for Augusta.  It was kind of like the British Open today, wasn't it?
 
MIKE WEIR:  It was like the British Open, very cold.  Just tough to get a feel on your hands of hitting half shots, your touch around the greens.  Your touch isn't there in your hands.  It was really difficult conditions, something you're really not used to this time of year around here.  
 
 
Q.  You've obviously shot some great rounds already.  This has to rank at one of the best, I would think. 
 
MIKE WEIR:  Yeah, it's a very good round, considering what the rest of the field is shooting today.  I was really happy with the round, definitely, the way I kind of hung in there, especially my first 18 this morning.  I shot 73 and really didn't get much out of it.  It was kind of frustrating.  But I hung in there.  
 
Q.  Is there much this week that you can bring to Augusta in terms of shots around greens?
 
MIKE WEIR:  Oh, yeah.  I think the speed of the greens were very close to what we'll have next week.  With the undulation, some of the pin placements they had out there today, some very difficult putts out there, you know, it's great practice around the greens for next week.  
 
Q.  Can you ever remember going through a nine-hole stretch where you played at 3-under but had no birdies?
 
MIKE WEIR:  Yeah, I guess I did.  Two eagles and a bogey.  
 
Q.  Have you ever done that before?
 
MIKE WEIR:  I don't know.  I don't think so.  
 
MIKE WEIR:  Thank you.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT