BELLSOUTH CLASSIC
March 29, 2001
Mike Weir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MIKE WEIR:  Right, exactly.  Yeah, it was frustrating because it was tough warming up out there, kind of keep your hands warm and dry, trying to get in the mental frame of mind to try and gut it out on a day like today.  A little frustration just waiting around and not being able to get started. 


Q.  Cold even for a Canadian?

MIKE WEIR:  Yeah.  Cold even for an Eskimo (laughter).  Yeah, it was.  The wind out there, you know, getting wet and getting your hands wet, makes them kind of clammy.  With the wind blowing, makes just holding on to the club difficult and maintaining your grip, you know, pressure and everything on the club makes it difficult.  There would have been a lot of challenges out there today.  The course would have played unbelievably long.  Would have played tough today.


Q.  When does it get counterproductive to being here? 

MIKE WEIR:  As far as? 


Q.  You're here trying to get preparation for next week.  If you end up sitting around waiting, delays, maybe not playing, when do you start to say, "I wonder if this is a good idea"?

MIKE WEIR:  I never looked at it that way.  I don't think it's counterproductive at all.  You just have to be patient, test your patience.  You never know what you're going to be faced with next week.  Might be perfect preparation.  We might get cold weather there, as well.  You never know, you just never know. The one thing you're going to need to do is try to get off to a good start here because you never know what's going to happen next week. 


Q.  What do you think if there had to be play on Monday, such a huge tournament?  Do you think guys are prepared to play Monday?

MIKE WEIR:  I think most of the guys here know when there is weather delay, there is a good possibility that, you know, you have to go to Monday, Masters week or not.  I don't know what would happen as far as the officials would say, if they would move it to Monday.  If we played Monday, it wouldn't be like we were making a big trek anywhere, wasting any time.  I don't think it would be a problem at all. 


Q.  Playing in conditions like these, how do you play when it's cold?

MIKE WEIR:  I tend to do well in bad weather.  I tend to shorten my swing up just a little bit, just try to get the ball in play.  You know you have to go in with the mentality that you know you're not going to hit perfect shots out there.  You have to be able to get the ball up and down up and down and really scramble around out there.  It's a challenge, but usually I play well in bad weather. 


Q.  When you have a situation like this, weather changes kind of the whole picture, does it make you think maybe it should be a little farther into the spring season so you don't run into so much cold weather?  Guys can handle rain better than rain and cold. 

MIKE WEIR:  You know, I don't know schedule-wise.  I think one thing this tournament has, the week before the Masters, it's going to have a great field, which is does here.  I don't know if you move it forward, if you lose the chance that you might get the quality field that you have right now.  You know, I guess this is the rainy season at this time.  I'm not going to sit and complain about it.  I think we have to be able to play in anything.  We're at the top of our profession.  If we can't handle the rain and the cold, I think you need to be able to handle it. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT