GENUITY CHAMPIONSHIP
March 4, 2001
Mike Weir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MIKE WEIR: He sure did. 
 
MIKE WEIR: Obviously Joe played a phenomenal round of golf today in those conditions.  65 is a hell of a score.  My hat is off to him.  He played a great round of golf.  
 

Q.  On the tee on 9 you sort of backed off a shot then blocked it left a little.  Nothing good seemed to happen after that for you the rest of the round.
 
MIKE WEIR: Well, yeah, I didn't get much out of it after that.  That was buried in the bunker, plugged lie, and made a pretty good bogey from there. So I wasn't that disappointed.  10 is a difficult shot for me, hitting 3-wood, being left-handed I have to start it almost at the water to hit it in that little neck.  Pulled it just a little, but it went right against the lip of the next bunker.  Hit a very good third shot in there that rolled over the back of the green.  Good putt that hit a spike mark.  That ball wasn't good to me at all.   From there on out I played very solid.  I hit every fairway pretty much.  Really struck the ball solidly, just couldn't buy a putt.  When I did hit a good shot the wind either gusted on me or switched and went down, so my good shots never turned out well. 
 

Q.  How bad was the wind?
 
MIKE WEIR: It was strong.  It was swirling around quite a bit.  It was a very strong wind. 
 

Q.  Can you comment on Joe's play on such a windy day, 12-under, yesterday and today.  Obviously  -- can you comment or quantify how good that is?
 
MIKE WEIR: That is great playing.  12 under on the weekend with that wind both days is -- obviously he is hitting it well but he had to be making a lot of putts on those greens; wasn't getting any easier on those greens because they were starting to get burned out and crusty and he just played great golf.  
 

Q.  Do you leave here feeling like you played well enough to win?
 
MIKE WEIR: Oh, yeah.  I played definitely well enough to win.  I played much better today than definitely the second, third round.  I didn't score as well, but I played much better.  Drove it very well all day.  Hit a lot of solid shots.  Really didn't miss-hit a shot except for maybe 9, just a little bit miss-hit.  But other than that I didn't miss-hit a shot. 
 

Q.  Being that close to the leader you really do have to kind of stay conservative too under these conditions?
 
MIKE WEIR: I didn't feel like I was playing conservatively at all.  I was playing my game.  I played the same game that I played the other three days, played exactly the same way.  Just didn't turn out.  I was -- my last 6, seven holes I was firing right at the flag.  Like I said, the wind, you expect it when it is blowing into you to be blowing a certain way and when it does you -- all of a sudden you are 40 feet past the hole and vice versa on 15 when it gusts hard, come short of the bunker.  You just have to -- that is just golf, you have to accept that sometimes. 
 

Q.  What club did you hit on 8 when  -- par 5?
 
MIKE WEIR: I hit a fairway wood.  I was thinking 3-wood or 5-wood.  Hit a good 5-wood, and right where I was  -- where I wanted to hit it. 
 

Q.  So you said you fired at the pin.  You didn't change your game at all when you see the number?
 
MIKE WEIR: Yeah, I was trying to take dead aim at it last few holes.  16 went right at it.  17 right at it again, hit a really good shot on 17.  The wind just died a little bit, went right over the top of the flag.  18 trying to hit a cut to right, the wind -- the wind kind of quartered and drove it straight down.  I was taking aim at the last few holes. 
 

Q.  What happened with the bogey on 10?
 
MIKE WEIR: That is what I just was saying, 3-wood down right side, rolled up against the lip of the bunker, had kind of one foot in, one foot out.  It was right against the lip.  I didn't have a shot.  Got it out pretty good, came into the right rough, very good third shot that landed probably little further than what I liked; jumped a little bit out of the rough, rolled over -- right over the pin, rolled over the back of the pin, chipped it probably eight feet and missed the putt.  Hit a spike mark and missed the putt. 
 

Q.  Are you familiar enough with Joe's game to be able to look at it and see that something has changed with him?  He is going to be 37 next month which is sort of a late time to be making a breakthrough.
 
MIKE WEIR: I don't know much about Joe's game.  I have played with him one time.  That was my first year on the Tour four years ago, so obviously he is doing something right right now.  I always thought that he was a good player when I did play with him, I thought he was a good player.  I don't know what  -- if he is doing anything differently, if he has made swing changes, I don't have an idea if he has done anything. 
 

Q.  Do you feel like this one got away from you or he just beat you?
 
MIKE WEIR: Well, a little bit of both.  I felt like I played well enough to be, you know, a few better than the score of 71 today, but Joe played a great round.  What can you say.  He played probably 4, 5 better than anybody else in the field.  So probably little bit of both.  Didn't get much out of my round.  I played well enough to shoot better than 71 so in that regard I feel like I just didn't get much out of it.  But Joe played really well.  
 

Q.  Birdie chances, any real good close birdie chances coming home?
 
MIKE WEIR: Really didn't.  Maybe on 16 I was probably 15 feet like I said, I hit the ball very solid and had it right at the pin a lot.  Just didn't turn out. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT