GENUITY CHAMPIONSHIP
March 2, 2001
Mike Weir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MIKE WEIR:  Yes.  The golf course played much more difficult with the wind switching the other way, played like the Blue Monster.  I am not totally satisfied with 70, but not really that disappointed either.  The course played much more difficult.  I really felt like I did not get a lot out of my round, but I played fairly well today, nothing great, but I played pretty solid.  Couple of breaks here and there, could have been 67 or something.  Still pretty solid round in the conditions. 
 

Q.  Sounds like it was a decent day. Does it feel worse when you are coming off a 62? 
 
MIKE WEIR:  I put that behind me.  I still think it was a pretty good day, couple of bad breaks here and there.  I hit a really good drive on 17, it hopped to the right.  One of the caddies forgot to rake the bunker; there was a footprint.  It would have been an easy shot, made a bogey there.  You have to take the good with the bad.  I made really nice saves and putts.  My putter is still keeping me in there really well. Overall, it was a pretty good day. 
  

Q.  Did not rake it at all?
 
MIKE WEIR:  He raked it but left half of a heel, that is where my ball happened to just wander right into. 
  

Q.  Funny how it happens?
 
MIKE WEIR:  It is. 
  

Q.  On this shot did you try to go left of the green?
 
MIKE WEIR:  I was trying to half skull it out of there, I could only see half the ball.  I did not -- it came out, it turned out okay.  Had a decent chance at making par from over there.  But from there it would have been an easy shot if I was on a lie.  
 

Q.  How frightening was the shot on 18?
 
MIKE WEIR:  I hit it right off the tee, underneath a limb, had to aim over the water and hook it.  I hit a really good shot, low driving draw that came in there, if it was probably about a foot to the right it would have been a good shot.  It kind of kicked to the left down in the rough and made a great putt there for par, probably 25 foot for par there.  That second shot was a little scary. You have to stand in there and trust what you are doing in that situation. 
  

Q.  Did you have an opportunity to go to the other side?
 
MIKE WEIR:  No, nothing the other way.  I did not have a pitchout because I had to keep it so low, I could not chip it out to the fairway because there was a bunker there right in front of me, then the limb of the tree so that was really -- unless I chipped it straight sideways, I didn't want to have 5-iron in for my third shot so I went for it. 
  

Q.  What did you hit?
 
MIKE WEIR:  3-iron.  
  

Q.  What did you have distance?
 
MIKE WEIR:  200 yards, like I said, I had to play it back.  My stance, I hit it so low, I knew it wasn't a full 3-iron but I had to draw it so much that was going to take off so much for the length of the shot because the wind was crossing the other way, so it was drawing into the wind. 
  

Q.  A few big putts to save par, as well?
 
MIKE WEIR:  Yes.  On 13, I felt that was kind of how the day the way went, hit a perfect 4-iron dead smack at the pin that landed very hard, rolled through about an inch into the rough and caught a bad lie.  Hacked it down there, made a good putt.  Seemed like the few chances on No. 8, I hit the 3-wood over the pin, caught one of my worst lies I ever had, would have been easy up and down probably for birdie. Things were not flowing today. 
  

Q.  Will you see guys' confidence change just by leaving conditions like the West Coast, where at times it got wet and soggy and bumpy on the greens, and coming to something where they are more familiar with, the light comes on and they just --
 
MIKE WEIR:  Oh, yeah, you can see the lines so much better on these greens than you could on the West Coast.  Similar greens to kind of Palm Springs, Bob Hope, I did not play it, but playing in the past, the greens are pretty true, that is why they shoot real low numbers there. You can see the lines really well, perfect greens; where here, kind of getting the same thing. 
  

Q.  Even though you put it behind you, it seems like it is hard for anybody to have a low round ....
 
MIKE WEIR:  One is today,  really, the conditions - yesterday the wind was blowing. The tough holes, all the difficult holes, it was a helping wind.  Then, I played in the afternoon today, the wind is blowing the opposite direction the golf course plays.  It plays 5 shots tougher, four, five shots tougher the other way.  Who knows if I had a morning round, morning time, the guys yesterday had probably little less wind in the afternoon than we did today.  It is tough to follow it up, especially when conditions change.  I know what you are saying, the general things is it is tough to follow up a round like that with a real solid one after that, but in my case today, I think it was more the conditions. 
  

Q.  More an accomplishment to hold it together in the face of some of the things that happened to you?
 
MIKE WEIR:  I think so.  I had some moments out there that I did not feel like I was getting the greatest breaks, but managed to come through them okay.  Overall, I think it was a pretty good day. 
  

Q.  What is your outlook for the weekend, when everyone at the top is going to be in the same end of the draw, so to speak?
 
MIKE WEIR:  Yes.  I need to drive a little bit better to have a real good chance this weekend.  I am driving it okay, but not really how I like.  I need to get the ball on the fairway a little bit more.  The rough isn't deep out there, but it is very gnarly and the ball sits so funny and so difficult to judge your distance out of the rough so a person who is hitting it in the fairway will have an advantage.  Hopefully I can do that next couple of days. 
  

Q.  At times you hit the ball well off the tee, at 14, you hit 320  --
 
MIKE WEIR:  14 I hit a big one there.  Great drive on 1, I had an 8-iron into No. 1, I hit that drive 360 on No. 1.  I hit some really good drives out there.  No. 8 into the wind, I banged that out there pretty long.  I did hit some good ones, I just need to be more consistent with it. 
 
MIKE WEIR:  Yes what was that?  Hit a big drive, left myself a sand wedge into 14, hit probably about 15 feet, made that one.  I told you about 17, where I was in half of a footprint.  Made that great par on 18, I told you about.  That was about 25 foot putt for par.  Then number 1 I had a big drive, left myself a an 8-iron into the green, 2-putted that one.  3, I hit a 3-wood and a wedge to about three feet.  Made that one.  5 I hit a 3-wood, and a sand wedge, maybe 18 feet, 15, 18 feet behind the hole, made that one.  7, I missed it left off the tee and was kind of stymied behind a tree, played it left, chipped up to maybe 20 feet from where I was out, trying to bump it into hill and run it up; I missed that.  I missed that putt.  That was about it.  Two good shots on No. 8, got a bad lie, made par. 
  

Q.  The shot on 3 did you for a moment think it--(inaudible) moment --
 
MIKE WEIR:  It looked like. 
  

Q.  -- history repeating?
 
MIKE WEIR:  Yes, it was coming around down the pin, it landed four or five inches right of the hole; at least three feet behind the hole. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT