MICHELOB CHAMPIONSHIP AT KINGSMILL
October 8, 2000
Mike Weir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MIKE WEIR:  Thanks.

MIKE WEIR:  Sure.  I played a great round of golf today.  I had really finished with a flurry. Struck the ball well finally today.  All week I talked to some of you guys earlier that I hadn't hit it very good and just kind of hung in there.  Before going into today, I thought-- I didn't feel like I was playing too good, and seemed to hit on a few things last night with my swing and came out today and felt really good.  Shot a great round, finished really well. Had a few chances earlier to maybe have a couple of better -- 3-putted the 3rd hole for a par; had another couple of chances that lipped out, but overall the way I finished, get in a playoff, that is all I could ask for really. 


Q.  You said you got some things that were working on the practice tee last night.  Is that tough for a lefty, I mean -- from the aspect that nobody is going to tell you things, are they --

MIKE WEIR:  Well, no.  But --


Q.  It is all feel for --

MIKE WEIR:  Well, yeah, I have a coach and I talk to my coach on the phone and it is no different from a lefty or righty.  There is no difference really.


Q.  You don't have any lefties that can look at you. .

MIKE WEIR:  A righty can look at me.


Q.  You think so?

MIKE WEIR:  If you know the golf swing, you know, it doesn't matter lefty or righty.


Q.  Can you go through the hot streak on the back nine for us?

MIKE WEIR:  Okay, birdied 12.  Hit a wedge in there about five feet, and then I guess 14 I hit a 9-iron about eight feet.  15 drove it in the rough, lay-it-up, hit it close for my third shot to about four feet.  Birdied 16 as well which was my driver and a 7-iron about twelve feet.  18, I hit driver and 6-iron to about ten feet.  Twelve feet maybe.  Made that one.


Q.  You took no time on the putt on 18.  Did you see the line immediately and one of those --

MIKE WEIR:  Well, I took -- I am not going to overthink it.  I did my same routine like I do on every putt, looked at it from both sides, picked my spot, my two strokes and there was a bug laying on my putter; had to back off.  I went through that again and thought I hit a good putt first time around.  I was putting from a little bit further left and the thing broke left-to-right, about two inches right in the center of the hole.  Next time I played it on the left fringe thinking it was going to break a little bit; actually I don't know if it hit something or just didn't break, but it just kind of hung out there to the left, so...

MIKE WEIR:  Probably ten feet.


Q.  You were done an hour before the playoff. What did you do during that time?

MIKE WEIR:  I went and grabbed a bite to eat; then went warmed up again; went and hit some balls; hit a few putts.


Q.  How much do you think that affected you  having to wait an hour; then having to go back out and play?

MIKE WEIR:  I don't think it had much of an effect really.  I don't.  I got up there pushed my tee shot maybe just a little bit on 18, but I thought it was perfect, and I guess it just rolled off and kind of horrible lie.  You can -- every spot except for where my ball was a good lie.  But that is the way it goes.


Q.  That was about all you can do with that second shot?

MIKE WEIR:  Yeah, just luck -- just hack it; hopefully it comes out hot and bounced up there, nothing.


Q.  What club were you using on that second shot?

MIKE WEIR:  I was trying to nuke a 9-iron.


Q.  I don't know what you can see from the tee or how good your eyes are (inaudible) could you see that happening?

MIKE WEIR:  I could see it -- I saw the ball rolling so I knew it was in the fairway if it was rolling.  But couldn't -- because it goes down the slope, I couldn't see it finish up, but I knew I hit it hard.  I hit my drive good in regulation and had 20 yards further than I did this time around, so really  hit that drive in the playoff really solid.  Like I said, it leaked just a little bit, but you know, I thought it was -- I hit it solid enough that it was in the fairway, just I guess, once it got over that slope just rolled left into the rough.


Q.  Did you need this kind of performance to get some confidence going into The Presidents Cup?  Does this do anything for you?

MIKE WEIR:  Sure, I haven't -- best I probably played in these last couple of months.  I took three weeks off before this week, so I have been playing -- I was playing last week a little bit trying to get my game in shape, and worked with my coach last week so, yeah, showed some signs of, like I said, not until today really.  I was just in a good frame of mind that held me in the tournament until today 'til my ball striking came around, so, that is really what did it.


Q.  Are you -- are you more happy now at this moment or are you more upset that --

MIKE WEIR:  I am disappointed obviously.  I wanted to win the tournament.  That is what I was here to do and made a key putt on the last hole to get in the playoff I felt like, and like I said, just luck of the draw.  I thought I hit a good drive on 18; didn't  turn out; thought I hit a good putt, didn't turn out either, so that is the way the game is.


Q.  Twice back-to-back, you almost won here; does this make it --

MIKE WEIR:  I mean --


Q. -- You think I will come back until I get it right?

MIKE WEIR:  I am sure I will come here.  I play well here.  I will come.  It's been a good week for me really. Obviously I am disappointed I didn't win, but you know, that is what you have got to live with as a professional golfer.  You have got to the live with these setbacks sometimes and I don't look at it really as a setback.  That is just the way the game is.  I hit a good shot, just wasn't rewarded for it.


Q.  Could you talk about that roller-coaster of emotions over the last three hours here, you make a run, you are in the tournament, you seem so ecstatic, almost just to have a shot of maybe being in a playoff; now you seem disappointed?

MIKE WEIR:  Well, it hasn't been a roller-coaster of emotion.  I just played a solid round of golf today.  I was hoping that that would be enough to get in a playoff.  Obviously, I am disapointed because I didn't win.  If I wasn't  disappointed there would be something wrong.  I am here trying to win a golf tournament; didn't win, so, obviously I feel like if you are a competitor you are going to be disappointed that you didn't win.


Q.  You were fairly far back going into today, but as you were warming up, getting ready to play, did you say:  I feel good enough that I can get into contention or I feel like a 64 in me?

MIKE WEIR:  I didn't really think like that really.  I finally started feeling better on the range like with my game a little bit with my swing, and just thought, let's just go play, see what happens really, and try to shoot as low as I can and see what happens.


Q.  You said you didn't really do any scoreboard watching?

MIKE WEIR:  No.  Only time I looked was on 18.  I looked on 18, I saw David at the time was at 13-under and I had a 12-footer for birdie.  I figured I probably need to make that and I did.


Q.  You felt confident enough in your game to take as far as leading to the Presidents Cup to take three weeks off, I mean, what was your -- you figured it was more important to get mentally fresh?

MIKE WEIR:  Yeah, definitely.  Well, I took the two weeks or the three weeks off after those two  Canadian tournaments which are important to me, those are big weeks; a lot going on so.  Those wear me down just a little bit.  I needed some time to regroup and get ready for the end of the year.


Q.  How big is that event for you, what are your expectations?

MIKE WEIR:  It is a big event for me.  One of my main goals to make that team this year at the beginning of the year.  Because there hasn't been a Canadian player and I said before it's not only myself, it is the Canadian golf fans and people in Canada who are very excited that I am playing.  I think it is going to be a great battle, two great teams, I think it's a good golf course for the type of format that it is at, the format that it is, and I am really looking forward it to just being on the team again.  It has been eight years since I was in college to be with a bunch of guys kinds of rooting for the guys on your own team, having a partner, so it will be a neat experience for me.


Q.  All you guys on the International Team really haven't (inaudible) I mean, do you think there is going to be like a team thing going?  I think that is one thing I remember from past President Cups at least the first couple that they played up here is that the  Americans seem like more of a team just because they had a little more in common?

MIKE WEIR:  Yeah, that is true in a sense but not true because I think almost all of the guys that are on the International Team play the U.S. Tour.  So we all know each other well.  I think we all get along pretty well.  There is a couple of guys that don't play here regularly Retief and Michael Campbell, I think the rest of the guys pretty much play over here, so I don't know.  Seemed like Australia, The International Team was really together and really formed together as a unit, so expect the same thing this time around.


Q.  Did you root for them in Australia?

MIKE WEIR:  Yeah, it is tough because I know a lot -- I am friends with a lot of the guys on the U.S. Team, but I think, yeah, definitely I was rooting for the International Team.


Q.  How much experience do you have in Match Play type format and how do you feel about Match Play compared to stroke-play?

MIKE WEIR:  I don't have a lot of experience in it.  I guess just Match Play, I played this year earlier in the year was the only time since really junior golf since I played something.  But that type  of format the alternate shot, that will be the first for me, so I am not sure who Captain Thompson will pair me with, so it will be interesting.  I might -- maybe paired with a veteran so I can see what strategies are involved, if there is a strategy involved with it.  I am sure there is a little bit, but it will be interesting to see how he pairs the guys together.


Q.  You look forward to the singles part, going head-to-head with one person for the entire round?

MIKE WEIR:  Yeah, that will be fun.  That is head-to-head Match Play, but I am looking forward to the team aspect, being with the team and having a partner out there just a different experience playing in that type of format than regular just Match Play or stroke-play.


Q.  You did play alternate shot in the mixed team; haven't you?

MIKE WEIR:  Oh, yeah, that is true.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT