THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT
May 27, 2000
Mike Weir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MIKE WEIR: Came down with a splitting migraine headache on about No. 14, unfortunately.
Gave me -- yeah, I just kind of lost my concentration. Every time I leaned over or I hit a
shot, it would just be pumping right out of my ball cap. Hopefully it doesn't happen
tomorrow. I've had it a few times. Not very often. I don't know. It was weird. 

Q. No idea what brings it on?

MIKE WEIR: No idea. 

Q. Playing the best you have all year.

MIKE WEIR: Yeah, I think I'm probably playing as well as I have all year. 

Q. How about these headaches that you've had, do they go overnight?

MIKE WEIR: I popped four Advil on the last couple holes; so hopefully it's starting to
go away a little bit. Hopefully it will be gone a in a little bit.

Q. At what point when you're out there in your round tomorrow do you say you're just
playing for second or do you just play your game?

MIKE WEIR: I'm just going to go play golf tomorrow and not even worry about it.
Whatever happens I'm going to play. See what happens. He obviously has a huge lead. As
good as he's playing, we don't have much of a chance. 

Q. Guys are shooting 64s and losing ground out there?

MIKE WEIR: I really had a chance to get in there close and kind of let it slip away a
little bit. But still, even if I played as good as I could, I still would have been like
five or six back. He's just playing great. My second shot on 14, that's when I really
noticed it, once I leaned over to get in my putting position, that's when it was -- I was
bending my head down and that's when it really starting thumping hard. Just it's happened
like a couple times. I mean, I'm 30 years old and it hasn't happened very often. You know,
I don't want to use that as an excuse for anything, but it definitely did -- I think it
played a factor, definitely, and it kind of made me feel sick to my stomach. Just my whole
body kind of went funny.

Q. A little scary probably?

MIKE WEIR: Yeah, it was a little scary. Start getting cold and then hot a little bit. I
don't know if I've got a little bit of a cold coming on a little bit, I don't know. Just
kind of -- my body just didn't feel right coming in. Just my touch with my putting, threw
me off a little bit. 

Q. (Inaudible.)

MIKE WEIR: I don't know, my wife and my little girl have a little bit of a cold. So
maybe I got that before I left last week with them. It could be.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT