BAY HILL INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY COOPER TIRES
March 17, 2000
Mike Weir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MIKE WEIR: Okay. No. 1, I hit a 3-wood and a 4-iron to 15 feet, probably, and made that
putt. 4-iron on No. 2 to maybe 40 feet and made that putt. That was the long bomb I hit
today. No. 3, I hit a 3-wood and 7-iron to three feet. No. 4, third shot was a sand wedge
to 10 feet. No. 5 was a 3-wood and a 9-iron to -- probably 12, 14 feet. And then No. 9 --
missed some birdie putts on all three of those holes, 6, 7, 8. And 9, I hit a driver and
8-iron to three feet. 10, I hit 3-wood and a 6-iron to 15 feet. And 11, I hit a driver and
a 7-iron to three feet.

Q. How long were the birdie putts you missed? 

MIKE WEIR: On the front side, you know, No. 6, I had it -- probably was about 20 feet.
Same with 7 and 8, I had it close. I had about an eight-foot putt that I missed on No. 8
and on the back side. The par 5, I was a long ways away. Made actually a nice 2-putt
actually from 35, 40 feet and 13. I was probably 12 feet and missed that putt. 14, I made
a nice up-and-down, actually, the par 3. And then missed it from -- on 15, probably 10
feet. 16, from about 10 feet. 17, I 2-putted from maybe 35 feet. And then 18 I was, you
know, 15, 16 feet on 18, missed it.

Q. How much different were the conditions today compared to yesterday? 

MIKE WEIR: A lot different. The wind was down. The greens were softer. It was a lot
different golf course today. Early this morning, I knew I needed to take advantage of it
early on because you never know how long the wind being down is going to last. It was
perfectly calm the first six holes. It played much different. The greens were holding,
even with longer irons which out here they normally don't do.

Q. When you make a bomb on No. 2 like you did, is that when you say to yourself,
"This is my day this could be my day"?

MIKE WEIR: Not really. Just lucky to make a putt of 40 feet. Outside of that, it was
fortunate. I haven't made a putt like that in about four or five weeks, it seems like; so
it was nice to make one like that, but then kept on going. Didn't get too carried away
with it.

Q. Is that the most birdies you've made in a row?

MIKE WEIR: I think an the Canadian Tour, I made seven one time, seven in a row. And
Australia -- actually in the European Tour in the German Open, I made six birdies, an
eagle and another birdie. In a stretch of eight holes, I was 9-under on eight holes.

Q. What does it feel like when you're on that stretch?

MIKE WEIR: The holes seems big and you're just dialed in with your iron shots. You seem
to hit the ball in the fairway, have the right yardage and never in between clubs. That's
what happened today. I had the right distance most of the time. Most of the iron shots I
had in were comfortable. It was never trying to hit an easy one or a very hard one, except
for on the par 3 I was -- like on 14, I was kind of in between clubs. But other than that
I was pretty much, you know, right on a standard iron shot. 

Q. Steve Flesch had a pretty nice day as well. Is it only a coincidence that you two
are lefty or does this course maybe set up for left-handers?

MIKE WEIR: I don't think it sets up for lefties, per se. Steve has been playing solid
golf all year and I've been playing pretty solid. I don't think it has anything to do with
the golf course.

Q. As well as you played yesterday, is this what you expected? 

MIKE WEIR: It doesn't feel a whole lot -- I did play really well yesterday. Left a few
on the golf courses yesterday. Played really well on the golf course yesterday, to shoot
2-under in those conditions on the afternoon. I guess through the first 11 holes, it did
feel like it was going a lot better, but at the end of the day, it didn't feel a whole lot
different because I parred my last seven holes. 

Q. You hear a lot of juniors say early on when they are learning the game that they are
pressured if they are left-handed to play the game right-handed. I'm wondering, did you
have that at all growing up? 

MIKE WEIR: Not really. I've told this story before. When I was about 13, because in the
back of my mind, I was -- dreamed of playing professional golf and I wrote Jack Nicklaus a
letter asking him if I should switch to right-handed at a young age if I wanted to pursue
golf. And he wrote back and said: "Stick to your natural swing and your natural
tendencies and don't switch." 

Q. What made you think to write him? 

MIKE WEIR: Well, he was just -- he was an idol of mine, I guess, growing up. So if
you're going to ask for advice, you're going to ask the best player in the world if you're
going to switch and make a big change like that.

Q. Were you feeling pressure going right-handed? 

MIKE WEIR: I wasn't. I wasn't. It was just a thought of mine. Even at 13, I was
thinking, you know I was young enough, I was even thinking, "Should I do it
now"? I have a lot of time to work on it, if he thought I should. 

Q. Were you surprised to get a letter back?

MIKE WEIR: Yeah, I was surprised actually.

Q. That's pretty cool.

MIKE WEIR: Yeah, it was really nice. I've got it framed at home still.

Q. What about equipment as a younger guy, did you have trouble finding it? 

MIKE WEIR: Yeah, when I was a younger, junior, it was a little more difficult to get
equipment. You know, I just had a mix-and-max set until I was 14 or 15. And now, it's
obviously much better. But back 15 years ago, it was. 

Q. You picked up a pretty good gallery as you went on, and a lot of Canadians,
obviously. Were you conscious of that?

MIKE WEIR: Yeah, I could tell that the crowds were getting bigger, and obviously, a lot
of Canadians that come down here in the winter. It's exciting to have actually kind of a
hometown feel, a lot of people pulling for you.

Q. You were in contention a couple of times last year (inaudible) -- PGA, but you came
back a couple of weeks later to win your first time. How much confidence do you get from
that and do you use that this week? 

MIKE WEIR: Yeah, this game you're always learning and always trying to get better and
learn something, and from the PGA, won a couple weeks later. I'm just trying to chip away
at my mistakes and keep trying to get myself in that position so I can win tournaments. I
think my experience -- all the experience that I've had in contention quite a few times
last year and those all pay off in the long run. And you feel much more comfortable when
you're in that kind of situation fighting it out for a title down near the stretch, and I
think that will help me. 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT