MICHELOB CHAMPIONSHIP AT KINGSMILL
October 8, 1999
Mike Weir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 MIKE WEIR: The difference between yesterday and today was a little bit of a rough day.
I had taken a couple of weeks off, and I hadn't done a whole lot. I didn't get a whole lot
of time to practice, just took it easy, took two weeks off. Yesterday was just a little
bit of rough play. I didn't play -- the difference was the putter, much better today, the
main key. 
 
Q. You must have been disappointed at the PGA Championship, having been in that
situation the final day, what did that do for you, experience-wise?
 
 MIKE WEIR: Yeah, I used it a little bit, the one in Vancouver, the main thing I took
out that tournament, I played pretty well, the only change I would have made the final
round was I got a little impatient when I got behind early. I was trying to win the
tournament. I was trying to get back into it, and tried to force things to happen, instead
of letting them happen. If you try to force thing on a tough golf course, it will get up
and bite you. If you force the putts and force the ball a little closer to the hole than I
needed to, that's the difference I learned probably going into Vancouver, is I just kind
of let it happen there and I think that's what I learned. 
 
Q. That's what you did today?
 
 MIKE WEIR: Yeah, exactly, that's what I did today. I didn't want to worry about the cut
or anything, I just wanted to go play a good, solid round of golf. Whatever happened today
I wasn't too worried about, I wanted to play better. I was very surprised to shoot that
low a round coming off of not too much practice time. 
 
Q. (Inaudible.)
 
 MIKE WEIR: I can't remember. I think it's probably the closest there. Either tied or
maybe one better, I'm not sure. Vancouver the last few days I shot 64 or -- 64, seven
under the last few days. That's definitely the best round this year. 
 
Q. Talk a little bit about the reception you've had since winning in your native
country, and what it's like? You said you actually got to enjoy it with your family, what
did you guys get to do?
 
 MIKE WEIR: Yes, it's fantastic, winning there. Every time the Tour gets to Canada, the
big talk is when is a Canadian going to win at home. And for me to finally do it, and the
way it happened last year, coming from behind, and the crowds were fantastic, couldn't ask
for a better scenario. And the next week in Toronto, most of my family was there, they're
from Ontario, and it was special winning there, more than probably the PGA. It was a lot
more special, because just the people pulling for you, the expectation going in there,
because I played well there in the past. And I think it was probably tougher to win there
than anywhere. 
 
Q. Did you have like a top five --
 
 MIKE WEIR: A couple of top fives, I finished 5th two times out of the previous few
years. I played well. I think the expectation was that I could do well and pull it out. 
 
Q. And it was almost a cinch that you wouldn't trade that for the major?
 
 MIKE WEIR: No question, I wouldn't trade it. 
 
Q. Really?
 
 MIKE WEIR: Where I came from last year, I'm getting better, my game is getting better,
and I hope that down the road I'll put myself in some chances to win majors down the road.
And I think I'll be better prepared for it when it does happen, and when I get in that
situation. Winning that event I think is better for me. 
 
Q. (Inaudible.)
 
 MIKE WEIR: I think it was Stan Leonard, in the 40's. 
 
Q. That must have been alot of pressure for you?
 
 MIKE WEIR: Yeah, it was, that golf course rule suits me well for some reason, I feel
comfortable on it. And like I say, I didn't force anything to happen, I just let things
happen and luckily it turned out for me. Holing that shot on 14, that was kind of
unexpected, knocking an 8-iron in from 165 yards, so things really happened -- when you
win a tournament, you get some fortunate luck, and I had some luck. 
 
Q. Was your eagle on 15 --
 
 MIKE WEIR: Today? It was a driver and 3-wood to 6 feet. 
 
 MIKE WEIR: Sure. 3 I had a good drive and laid it up to about 90 yards and hit that to
six feet, and made that putt. 8 I hit a 3-wood and 8-iron to three feet. I made a nice par
saver on 9 from about eight feet. 12 I hit a 3-wood and a 9-iron to almost went in to
about an inch, hung right on the lip. And 13 I hit a little 5-iron to 25 feet, and made
that one, that was a nice putt there. 14 a 3-wood and 9-iron to six feet. 15 a driver and
3-wood to six feet, made that for eagle. Missed about an 8-footer on 17 and rolled into a
nice putt, I hit it in the first cut of rough on the last hole, and I was stuck with about
30 feet. 
 
Q. That was a 9-iron on 12 that almost went in. How long was it?.
 
 MIKE WEIR: I was 138, I think. 
 
Q. Did you expect a round this low with the weather, and the conditions of the course?
 
 MIKE WEIR: I think the golf course -- the wind wasn't up as much as yesterday, and the
greens -- the ball was receiving nicely on the greens, the ball wasn't really bouncing
far, I think if anyone was going to shoot a round it would be this morning, but it was a
little unexpected, because I haven't been putting in the time. Normally with my game I
have to always be on top of it. I'm not a guy that can usually take a lot of time off and
play well, so it's kind of surprising to me, actually. 
 
Q. 25th on the money list, do you find yourself looking at these guys and saying they
have to do this to catch me, do you feel comfortable about THE TOUR Championship?
 
 MIKE WEIR: I feel like I've been playing well. I want to play this and see what
happens. I'm not a really big money list watcher. I'm not a big leaderboard watcher,
either. So I don't really pay attention too much. 
 
Q. You'll play here and Vegas and Disney?
 
 MIKE WEIR: Yeah. 
 
Q. Can you talk a little bit about what you carry away from the final round of the PGA?
Obviously it didn't set you back too much, but that couldn't have been real pleasant?
 
 MIKE WEIR: No, like I said, I take away the positives from it, as I was telling this
gentleman. I just -- I was a little impatient, I tried to force things, and that's the big
thing that I took away from that. But I also realized that also when I'm playing well and
playing on top of my game I can play with anybody, and I'm as good as anybody if I'm
playing on top of my game. I had sort of a ways to go, I feel, and there were more
positives than negative. 
 
Q. Not all of us were here when you teed off, but did you pass the Canadian hardiness
test and play without a sweater and windbreaker?
 
 MIKE WEIR: I had a turtleneck and shirt on when I teed off and then peeled it off. 
 
Q. How much easier did 18 play today?
 
 MIKE WEIR: Probably a little easier, kind of a downwind shot that was playing easier
than yesterday. 
 
Q. How much of a bear was it yesterday?
 
 MIKE WEIR: I drove it in the rough yesterday, I had to lay it up short. But it would
have been a four or five iron to the back, today a hit an 8-iron, a big difference. 
 
Q. Does your mindset change, it sounds like you came here to work out the kinks, and
now you're right up there on the leaderboard, and put up a great number today, does your
mindset change going into the weekend?
 
 MIKE WEIR: Not really. I guess it does, it gets the competitive juices flow more, now
that I'm in contention. But my gameplan stays the same. I want to play the golf course
exactly the same way as I did today, the same targets that I set up for myself. I'm happy
with the way I kind of dissected the course today, I hope I can keep doing that. I won't
change that. 
 
Q. When you're in contention, are you a scoreboard watcher at all?
 
 MIKE WEIR: No, not really. I get my caddy to do it. If he feels like we need to throw
out a pin or something, he'll let me know. But I stick to my same routine. And if I'm out
of it a little bit and need to take a chance, well, I ask him and see where we're at, and
I might take a look. But I rely on him to kind of rely that information to me. 
 
Q. How did you do last week?
 
 MIKE WEIR: I finished maybe the middle of the pack, I'm not sure. I had one good round,
67 or something, but somewhere in the middle. 
 
Q. Did you carry away an impression that this might be a good course for you some day?
 
 MIKE WEIR: Yeah, I remember coming in here I wasn't struggling to keep my card this
time last year. I wasn't playing well when I came in here, and I still managed to shoot
that one big round of 67, I think, one round. And the golf course obviously I felt
comfortable, for not playing it well, I remember shooting a good round out here. It's a
great golf course, it's a really good golf course. 
 
Q. Before you clipped the mic on I heard you talk about hockey, I assume growing up
you're a big hockey guy. Did you play any?
 
 MIKE WEIR: Yeah, I played at college, and then I put them away. I still enjoy the game
and have a chance to play here and there. 
 
Q. Recreational time?
 
 MIKE WEIR: Recreational once in a while. What we were talking about, just Inside the
PGA TOUR thing, with the Washington Capitols. The captain is a friend of mine. I did a
full practice with them about two and a half weeks ago. I couldn't move for about two
days.. 
 
Q. Did you end up on the boards at all?
 
 MIKE WEIR: I got bumped around a little. But I wanted to get out there. I didn't want
to do it for show, I wanted to work the whole practice. They let me do the drills and
everything. 
 
Q. Were you a winger?
 
 MIKE WEIR: I played left wing and center, when I played. It's amazing the speed. Boy,
was I slow compared to those guys, they're awesome. 
 
Q. You know, Lee was saying when you were still out on the course, it's a big deal in
Canada for you to win. How has your life changed since then, just a bigger name than you
were before, but is there anything concrete that you can tell?
 
 MIKE WEIR: Nothing really. I guess the major difference was probably the media
attention that I got. It kept me in Toronto, which is closer to my home town, which is
great. In walking the range I got a standing ovation, and I guess that was the difference,
that I wasn't expecting that for sure. Other than that my life hasn't changed, I'm still
the same guy, I do the same things, I'm the same guy I haven't went out and bought a new
house or new car. 
 
Q. Why not?
 
 MIKE WEIR: The game is too fickle, you never know. I put it away. 
 
Q. Who were heroes when you were growing up?
 
 MIKE WEIR: I would say my golfing heroes are Jack Nicklaus, and through my college days
-- I look at people for different reasons, Richard Zokel (ph.) is one that's a true
professional, and he's helped me a lot that guy when I turned pro to give me some good
advise as far as instructors go, just a lot of little advice that really pays off in the
long run. He's the guy I've always looked up to from my teens on, I would say those two
guys more than anybody, golfing-wise. Wayne Gretzky is probably the guy I liked growing
up. 
 
Q. How did you wind up at Brigham Young? 
 
 MIKE WEIR: Charles Tucker was my coach when I was there, Jim Helford, and Richard Zokel
went there, and another player is Rick Gibson, he played in Japan, and Brent Franklin. I
just kind of followed in their footsteps. And coach recruited me down there, and I loved
the area, I knew we were going to play a competitive schedule all year. Coach became -- he
was like a second dad to me. I think that was the main reason I went there. 
 
Q. So that was a recruiting pipeline up there?
 
 MIKE WEIR: Yeah, it's been cut off lately, because they have a new coach. I hope he
starts recruiting again. 
 
Q. Did Coach Tucker retire?
 
 MIKE WEIR: After my senior year he packed it in. 
 
Q. (Inaudible.)
 
 MIKE WEIR: Well, I'm sure they weren't going to hammer me into the boards. They kind of
got me after the practice and pulled a jersey over my head and pretended (inaudible.) 
 
Q. Any other lower numbers?
 
 MIKE WEIR: I think this is my lowest number, 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT