MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2013
Mike Weir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MIKE WEIR:   72, to finish that well, a couple birdies coming in was nice.   It was a little frustrating because I felt like I left some early out there.   To finish with a birdie makes it quite nice.   That's what I wanted to do.   I wanted to get somewhere around par or under par would have been nice, but I got it back to par, and I'm in a good position.

Q.   It didn't look like there was much chance you were going to continue after the tee shot on 8.   Looked like there was a lot of pain coming off there?
MIKE WEIR:   Gave me a nice little jolt there, that's for sure, but luckily there wasn't that many more.   There was one more on the back side that got me, I think it was 13 tee.   But other than that it wasn't too bad.   So yeah, I'll probably take it easy the rest of the day now. 

Q.   How many would you say plausible birdie putts did you leave out there? 
MIKE WEIR:   Oh, I don't know.   I mean, No.1, No.2, not quite on 3, but 7 I had a good look, 8 I had a decent look and the wedge kind of got away from me a little bit and landed a little harder than I thought.   9, a good look, hit it close on 10 and then three‑putted 11, and 12 I had a good look, and 13.   So yeah, there were a lot.   There were a lot of good looks.   They weren't five feet, but they were 15 feet in the right spot. 
I just didn't‑‑ I was just a little off with pace on one and a little off with line on another and just didn't quite get them together.   But it was nice to get one on the last there finally.

Q.   That means your iron play was right‑‑
MIKE WEIR:   It was better, yeah, it was much better.   My driving was good today.   That's what was helpful.   I was in the fairway a lot and set up those iron shots.   But yeah, my iron play felt good today.

Q.   Was No.8 the only fairway you really missed?
MIKE WEIR:   I missed 5, as well.   I missed 5 to the right, and 8, and 13 I hit it through the fairway on 13.   That was it. 

Q.   In a strange way, the max effort that you sometimes have to give your shots, that it wasn't there today, does that help you in some ways?
MIKE WEIR:   That I can swing fully you mean?   Yeah, maybe.   Maybe that's kind of a nice recipe to kind of not‑‑ the temptation there because the golf course is so long to get after it a little bit, but I had to reel that in a little bit today.   I hit one pretty hard on 11, but other than that I was just 80, 85 percent.   But the ball is still getting out there a decent distance.   It's amazing when you find the center of the face with a slower swing, it goes out there as far or farther than a fast swing with a missed center hit.   I was finding the center of the face, which was nice.

Q.   Were you almost even surprised a little bit kind of the way this worked out? 
MIKE WEIR:   I mean, I guess I went in with my expectations not real high, but I had, I guess, some‑‑ something in my gut told me that I was going to find a way to score out here.   I played it so much, this golf course, and felt like if I could just get that thing in the fairway that I know the right angles and know the right spots to be on the greens, which I did a really good job of today.   I was on the correct side of the hole a lot.   Yeah, could have been a little better for sure. 

Q.   Are you going to be all rested by tomorrow?
MIKE WEIR:   I don't know, I might putt a little bit.   Yeah, other than that I don't know if I'll hit any.   Probably not.   I'll go get a little treatment on it and see how I feel, do a little rotation stuff with the guys in the trailer and then possibly may hit a couple.   But everything felt pretty good. 

Q.   When you let go of the club is that because of a twinge or because of a swing you didn't want to make‑‑
MIKE WEIR:   No, it grabs right as I am coming at impact is when I feel it and it's like I can't extend through, it just kind of catches me mid‑swing, like an interruption as I'm coming down.   Compared to Bay Hill where it was doubling me over, it's way‑‑ it was okay. 

Q.   How was the pace of the greens today?
MIKE WEIR:   They were nice pace.   You know, I had a couple putts that got away from me a little bit.   I ran by one on 7 and ran another one by on 11, a couple of three‑putts there.   But they weren't anything‑‑ I think the humidity is keeping a little bit of the moisture in there, so they weren't really getting super fast yet.   But they were still a nice speed.   But they're a speed that you can make some putts out there. 

Q.   How much do you think you missed it by on 6?
MIKE WEIR:   Yeah, I missed it there by a couple of feet.   14 I had about a foot from being close to the hole.   15, my second shot was about a yard from being close for eagle. 

Q.   Did it feel like you had a mile to go‑‑
MIKE WEIR:   Yeah, it was a nice two‑putt there.   I had a few things, that's golf, but a couple things could have gone a little better.

Q.   All in all, this has got to be pretty encouraging. 
MIKE WEIR:   Yeah, it was very encouraging, to be off that long, and it was my first 18 holes in three weeks.   Happy with it. 

Q.   Nice that you got early‑late, too‑‑
MIKE WEIR:   Yeah, given what I saw on the forecast.   Maybe it will be nice to be on the good side of one of those, too.   We'll see what happens tonight.   It sounds like it could be quite bad tonight, big hail and things like that.

Q.   15 your bail‑out was about like this‑‑ 
MIKE WEIR:   Yeah, it was about this far from landing on the fringe and going right to the hole, but it was a really nice shot.

Q.   How close was that putt on 18 that you made to the putt on 18 a few years ago?
MIKE WEIR:   Oh, long ways away.   It was just on top to the right.

Q.   Further right?
MIKE WEIR:   Yeah, further right.   But yeah, that was‑‑ I don't know what I had there.   That was probably a 12‑footer that I made there, 14‑footer.   That was about seven, eight feet, the one I made. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT