FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
January 24, 2013
Mike Weir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   6‑under 66, we've been talking about it all day how important it is to get a good start on the North Course on day one?
    MIKE WEIR:   It is.   My putter was just really hot today.   That's kind of the story today.   I putted very well.   My iron play was good, but you do want to get off to a good start when you start on the North Course because you know the South is very difficult.

Q.   What will your expectations for the South Course in round two? 
    MIKE WEIR:   Well, I hope to take advantage of the par‑5s.   A lot of the par‑4s are long for me and pars are good.   So if I can take advantage of the par‑5 and shoot something under par, I'll be pretty happy.

Q.   You talked last week at Humana about a couple of swing changes you've been working on.   Your game is obviously coming around.   You played great last week for the first couple of rounds, and this week things are clicking.   Do you feel like you're almost there? 
    MIKE WEIR:   I'm almost there.   I don't feel a hundred percent comfortable yet, but it's definitely getting a lot better.   I'm happy with the progress I'm making.   As golfers, you want it right away, but I've seen some good signs, so that's always positive.   Hopefully, tomorrow, I can keep doing the same thing.

Q.   And adizero is sponsoring our live coverage.   I noticed you're rocking them. 
    MIKE WEIR:   I love them.   I put them on to start the year at Sony.   They feel great.   They're really low to the ground.   For me it's really important to feel that, so, yeah, I love them.

Q.   Was today physical or was it mental? 
    MIKE WEIR:   A combo.   Very difficult mentally to deal with that when you're struggling and you know you're not a hundred percent.   To play and compete with these guys, especially for a player like myself, who, I can't‑‑ I don't get gimme birdies on par‑5s.   So I need all I have at my size.   So it's been a trying few years to say the least. 
    But at the same time, I've tried not to change.   I've tried to have a positive outlook as bad as I've played and as much as I've struggled, I've tried to figure out ways to get it right, and it's just taken me a long time. 
    I like the team I have together now, and I'm feeling more comfortable all the time.

Q.   What's kept you going, Mike?   What's kept you motivated? 
    MIKE WEIR:   I love the game.   I just love the game.   I love to compete for those two things, and, even as poor as I was playing, I knew it was in there.   So if I didn't have the desire to wake up every morning and keep working hard, I wouldn't have done it, because it's very difficult.   But I still have the desire to play, and I want to win.   I'm motivated by all the great players of the past, really to tell you the truth.   I've talked to a number of guys and they were very encouraging.   I take all of those things together and having a great support system around me has really helped too.

Q.   Your girls have been on you? 
    MIKE WEIR:   Yeah, they've been very motivating.   They're just positive, you know.   They see how hard I work.   They're firsthand.   They see their dad work hard every day, so they're very encouraging and positive.   Even if I have a bad week, they're like, Come on, Dad, next week.   So that's nice to have that support. 
    I'm not only playing for myself.   It's nice. My girls are at an age now that they understand.   The last time I played really well, they were pretty young, so I'd like to show them what their dad can do.

Q.   How tough was that Sunday?
    MIKE WEIR:   Well, that wasn't fun, but I didn't want to let one shot ruin it.   I was 9‑under par at one point and had a chance to go even lower.   So I didn't want to let that one shot ruin the good things that I had made progress on.   Obviously, very disappointing.
    I mean, I was upset.   But, within an hour, I was over it, and looking forward to this week and trying to get my mind right for this week.

Q.   Your friend Charles Howell says if anyone who thinks or says golf is fun doesn't play it for a living. 
    MIKE WEIR:   Right.

Q.   Is that something you would second, and can you sort of give your take on what keeps you all coming back and back and back? 
    MIKE WEIR:   Yeah, I guess the competition and the challenge day‑to‑day.   For myself, I'm trying to have fun.   I am trying to have fun and enjoy that challenge, but it is‑‑ even if you're shooting 6‑under or 6‑over, it's kind of the same mental grind in a different sort of way.   But it's just as hard to shoot 6‑under.   It's never easy. 
    Very rarely in my career do you go through a round that just feels easy.   So the 6, 7‑8‑unders are as mentally challenging as the tough days too.   So trying to embrace those and enjoy myself a little bit more out there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT