RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 22, 2011
Mike Weir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Talk a little bit about what's going on?
 MIKE WEIR: It's disappointing, but I'm not going to go down that road again. I couldn't open a bottle of water this morning after hitting those shots out of the rough. 
 I had a couple this morning, and it was starting to feel like it did last year, so I'm just not going to make that mistake again.

 Q. Is it precautionary or severe? 
 MIKE WEIR: It's both. So I'll check with my doctor and see. I'll probably get another MRI and check it and see what's going on. But definitely precautionary right now, and hopefully it's not worse than that. 

 Q. Are you hurt? 
 MIKE WEIR: My elbow's really acting up. When I got out there today, I woke up this this morning and it was very sore. Thought I could play through it. Had a couple of shots in the rough this morning. And I just don't want to go down that road again where it becomes a bad injury again. So it's very tender, very sore right now. With this deep rough, I just can't hit it.

 Q. What does this tournament mean to you, to withdraw from home country event for you?
 MIKE WEIR: It's very disappointing. This is our National Championship. I want to play and have great fan support. But I'm just not going to reinjure it again. That's the thing. 
 I tried to play through it a little bit last year and ended up being off for three or four months because I did that. I'm not going to do something stupid like that again. I want to get it right 100% before I get back. 
 You know, I know I'm 41, but I still feel young. I feel like I can play a long time. I just don't want to do anything to jeopardize that.

 Q. Is it sore? 
 MIKE WEIR: Very sore.

 Q. Was it from the rough yesterday? 
 MIKE WEIR: That shot was brutal on nine. But the very first shot I hit yesterday it kind of got a little sore. I mean, it just kind of suddenly playing on it from Wednesday to yesterday and then I woke up this morning and I knew I was a little bit in trouble. I had a tough time hitting the ground this morning and trying to get into the ground. I could tell I started to favor it. Even my drivers and stuff on the course it started hurting. 
 So in my mind, I'm just not going to go down that road. Like I said to these guys, I can't do it, you know.

 Q. Unfortunate that you ended up in rough like this. 
 MIKE WEIR: Yeah, I mean, it obviously aggravated it for sure.

 Q. (Indiscernible)?
 MIKE WEIR: No, it's great. It's a wonderful setup. But I think all the ball beating I've been doing lately. I've been hitting a lot of golf balls and practicing hard. You get into rough like that and that's where I am. 
 It's unfortunate it's this tournament, but I don't know when I'm going to play again now. I'm going to wait until it's ready.

 Q. Are you going to go check it out? 
 MIKE WEIR: Yeah, go see my doctor and maybe get another MRI to make sure I didn't tear it again. Hopefully it's just lingering soreness from being strained or something, but hopefully I haven't --

 Q. Was it this bad last year? 
 MIKE WEIR: It's close. It feels like it's progressively getting on its way there, that's why I stopped now. I don't want to go there again. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT