AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 10, 2011
Mike Weir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE WEIR: Feels good to score like I did today. You know, those little scoring aspects are huge. That's what I felt like I was missing the first couple weeks.  
 It's a little up and down here and there. It's the converting on a par-5. It's the little short things that you do when you're playing and in the flow of a tournament.  
  
  Q. What was the difference between the front and back nine?  
 MIKE WEIR: Wasn't a big difference. You know, my first nine holes I had chances. I was burning edges, burning edges , burning edges. You know, early in the morning couple mud balls that kind of got away.   
 Then we got on the peninsula and it's drier and, you know, got it on the fairway and was able to attack the pins. I had a lot of shots like I did at nine there. Five or six birdies I made on this side, a lot of them were inside of five feet. I think four were inside of five feet.   
 It's nice to see some shots get close to the hole.   
  
  Q. You couldn't ask for much better conditions. Talk about your round a little bit.   
 MIKE WEIR: You couldn't ask for better conditions. I haven't seen Spyglass play this firm and fast. The greens were the tough part of the golf course.   
 Iron play was really sharp today and putted nicely, so that was nice. Made a lot of birdies on this course. For me, that was pretty good, seven birdies.  
  
  Q. With the injury from last year, how is it feeling with the play and everything?  
 MIKE WEIR: I'm feeling pretty good. It's almost a nonfactor now. It's my third tournament. Yeah, shaking the rust off after five months, but I'm feeling good and glad to be back out here. Feels great to be playing again.   
  
  Q. Does a win weigh on your mind at all, or just go out and play golf?  
 MIKE WEIR: I'm not really thinking about it too much. Just trying to get out there and play and just find my game again.   
 As I said, being off that long, the club felt a little funny when I started swinging again after a little over three months of not doing anything.  
 So to get back and get into the flow of competitive golf, not just playing, but really competing is kind of what I've been missing. It's good to get a good round and get started right.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT