WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 19, 2010
Mike Weir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Mike, you were just on the outside of the PGA TOUR Playoffs for the FedExCup at 126. How relieved, for lack of a better term, are you that you posted a good number to start this tournament?
 MIKE WEIR: I need to play well. This game is always about pressure, whether it's getting into The Playoffs, trying to get in THE TOUR Championship, trying to win the tournament. There's different levels of pressure and, you know, this week it's -- I want to play and keep playing. I love to keep playing and get a good number. This morning, the first 9 holes, kind of tough with the rain coming up. Rain was pretty good.

 Q. You've been battling some tendinitis in your elbow. How are you feeling?
 MIKE WEIR: Today is not too bad. Everyday is like hitting -- you have tendinitis, some days it's really, really sore and other days it's playable. I just keep getting treatment inside by the guys. They done a good job of getting me ready to go. I really need some time off. 
 At the point where I am on the money list, the FedExCup list, I kind of need to play. It's a Catch-22 a little bit but hopefully I'll play well here and play a couple weeks and then I'll shut it down.

 Q. How do you deal with the pressure? You're feeling the pressure all the time. This is a little bit different, I guess.
 MIKE WEIR: Yeah, it is different. It's been a tough year for me. I haven't played well at all but kind of like last year, got in in New Jersey or New York there. I'm thinking hopefully I played well at the end of the year in a number of different years, I played well in the fall, kind of late in the year. 
 Hopefully I can play well at the end of the year. The rest of the year hasn't been very good.

 Q. How bad is the elbow?
 MIKE WEIR: Today is probably about a 7. It's been 8, 9 most of the time so it's been really hard to play. It's a tough sport at the best of times when you're feeling good and it's like taking a knife to you. It's tough to play but hopefully we'll get through this and then get some time off and look at some different options to try to fix it.

 Q. Has it bothered you all year?
 MIKE WEIR: No. Probably the last -- been since probably the British Open. Couple of months, little less than couple of months.

 Q. This course is one that should suit you?
 MIKE WEIR: Yeah. It's a nice golf course. It's an old country club, should suit me and you still got to make some putts out there. I left a few out there. I really like the golf course. It's the first time I played it. It's a nice track.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT