RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 23, 2010
Mike Weir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Would you say your tournament here was -- the week was "The Perfect Storm," having missed the cut at the British Open and then playing back here, the charity tournament and then the tendonitis in the two rounds that you played?
 MIKE WEIR: I don't know if that had anything to do with it. I just played poorly. You know, no excuses. I just didn't play well.

 Q. How did you find the course today?
 MIKE WEIR: How did I find it? Same as yesterday. Tough. 

 Q. Tough? How did the rain affect it?
 MIKE WEIR: The rain, you know, softened the golf course and you got to have the ball in your hand. And same as I said yesterday, if you're driving the ball on the fairway, you can score. If you're hitting it where I was, you can't. You can't score from the rough here. And you know, I was in the rough all day.

 Q. Mike, you wouldn't want to use this as an excuse, but was the tendonitis flaring up at all? Was that an issue?
 MIKE WEIR: Oh, it was fine. No. 

 Q. Statistically driving has been kind of an issue all year, Mike. Is this something you can kind of corral as the year goes on?
 MIKE WEIR: Well, that's the plan. I haven't been driving it very well, and when you play a golf course that has penal rough and you're not driving it well, it makes it difficult. Makes the game hard.

 Q. Mike, this ends a run for you, better results at the Canadian Open. Has it changed at all? Does this one feel different missing here than some of the other ones?
 MIKE WEIR: No, not really. 

 Q. Mike, you seem to have a lot of support out there from the Canadians. I know you're frustrated, and you said it was disappointing. (Indiscernible)?
 MIKE WEIR: Yeah. I have great support like that. You know, I want to give a better show, and the fans are great. You know, I wanted to play well for them. 
 So I was trying as hard as I could, you know, and I was just struggling. I'm at a point in my game right now that I'm struggling, and everybody goes through it at some point in their career, and you just gotta keep working and fight your way out of it. Everybody has times in their career that they struggle, and right now is just the time that I am, and I have to just keep working hard. That's all you can do.

 Q. What's your solution? If you hurt, it probably cuts into the time you can put into working on your game. 
 MIKE WEIR: Yeah. That hurt this week. You know, I couldn't prepare. You know, especially being off three weeks before the British, I just haven't had the preparation. 
 But not using that as an excuse, but I'm just saying when you're off on your game, you want to work on it, and when you can't do it, that makes it a little bit harder. But I'll get home and take a few days off and rest the elbow and then get back to work.

 Q. Do you expect to be back at Firestone, Mike? Is that your next tournament?
 MIKE WEIR: Yeah. Firestone will be next.

 Q. Do you get any sense from the way your injury is that it's going to prevent you from sort of tightening up --
 MIKE WEIR: I hope not. Like I said, the guys in the fitness trailer did a great job. They got me -- compared to Wednesday, it didn't feel very good at all, so they did a great job to get me to be able to play. So hopefully just keep getting treatment on it and be ready to go in another week and a half.

 Q. Any particular shot it bothers you with?
 MIKE WEIR: The rough. When I was in the rough, and you gotta slash it out of there, it doesn't feel very good. But you know, the fairway was okay.

 Q. Does it make you want to do more toward the end of the year? Do you want to increase your workload?
 MIKE WEIR: I possibly could. You know, I might. I might play a little more. I'll just see how the next couple go, but I might play a little more in the fall.

 Q. And in a couple of years you get to go back to Glen Abbey. 
 MIKE WEIR: Yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT