U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 17, 2010
Mike Weir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Seems to me like you were putting extremely well. 
 MIKE WEIR: That was probably the strength of my game today was the putter. If they didn't go in, they looked like they were going in. And you need to do that on these greens. And it's just in the past I've putted these greens very well, in AT&T, even in February when they're not as fast and they're maybe a little bumpier because it's wet, I've always putted them well. 
 So I just have confidence on these greens. 

 Q. The 18th green is so difficult, a lot of 2-putts on there?
 MIKE WEIR: It's a difficult pin position. So for one it's nearly impossible to have an uphill putt there and be on the green. So you're putting defensively and you're putting from the hole and down, 90 percent of the guys are going to be up there or short of the green, because it's just such a slope there if you're left of the pin it's going to funnel off or you're going to be off the hole. 
 It's defensive putting, you hit it down and hopefully it trickles down and kicks in there. But it's -- you're just basically trying to two-putt when you get below the hole there.

 Q. You've had success at the golf course before?
 MIKE WEIR: Yeah, you definitely feel that comfort level of playing a golf course that you've played well on. You see the shots, even though the course is set up a little differently, you have your trees that you're aiming at and your targets. I know how to play the golf course. It's just a matter of being able to execute it. I guess that kind of you, for me I'm not searching around for what I'm doing out there as far as game plan it goes.

 Q. You've always played well in U.S. Opens, what was it about the USGA sets things up for you?
 MIKE WEIR: Well, I think I would say just the grind, more than anything. I enjoy that challenge. I look at it that way. I think that more than anything that's probably why I've done well in the U.S. Opens because I know it's tough. I know it's going to be tough. You know every 3-footer is going to be tough. So I think that's -- I just enjoy that. 

 Q. How do you assess the par-5 there on 14?
 MIKE WEIR: Well, you get your second shot in the fairway and today I was just in that first cut by about a foot and it made it a little more difficult. But, you know, they're going to have the opinions all on that left side. And luckily today that third shot is into the wind and the greens are a little softer right now. 
 But as the week goes on and the greens get faster and harder, it's the toughest third shot on a par-5 in golf. I can't think of another third shot on a par-5 that's more difficult than that. 

 Q. Your chip shot off of 16 and coming back the last two holes?
 MIKE WEIR: Yeah, that was a bonus. I was hoping to hit a great shot like I did there. I hit a great one, landed where I wanted and just happened to hit the flag. The best I could have done there is ten feet, and that looked like probably what it was going to be. And I would be happy with that to leave myself a 10-footer uphill. I didn't want to land it absolutely perfect and leave it short in the rough and have the same shot again. One of those ones you take a big swing and it came out nice. It's a good shot, but there's a little luck involved in that one.

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 MIKE WEIR: You know you can go out there. Golf swing-wise I played average, but better than what I've been saying. So my short game feels really good. I said if I can keep improving just a little bit every day, you know, I like my chances. 
 But the biggest thing, you have to have a short game to win an Open, to win any major, any tournament, my short game feels really good.

 Q. Does it feel difficult to have a wait like you did on 17 when you're facing a tough shot like that?
 MIKE WEIR: Yeah, I would have loved to stand up there and keep going there. I was kind of caught between clubs. I tried to hit a hard 4-iron and got ahead of it a little bit, because I knew 3-iron, if I landed over the bunker, it's probably not staying on the green. 
 So my idea was to, you know, if it carried, if not, I was going to be in that front bunker, and that's what I was after. I got out in front of it a little bit. 

 Q. The pitch on 16, you almost had something similar to 11. You had to kind of parachute that one, too, it trickled down?
 MIKE WEIR: Yeah, above the hole here, you've got to do everything you can to try to stay below the hole, if you can. But it's easier said than done. 

 Q. You and K.J. both turned 40 last night?
 MIKE WEIR: He turned 40, too? 

 Q. Yes, he did. 
 MIKE WEIR: I don't feel for it. Anyways, it's just a number, I don't think the golf ball knows how old you are.

 Q. When you pulled the hybrid out for the third shot, did you think it was too risky a shot?
 MIKE WEIR: Yeah, where the pin was. If it was in front I would have been able to play a pitching round out of the bunker, it would be okay, but I needed to leave myself a fuller shot, and obviously Tim Clark said it hit like a brick. It just hit really, really hard, but that's what I needed to do there. I couldn't get the ball on the green from out of the rough. I was maybe trying to get something out of the bunker, but out of there I wouldn't get anything closer.

 Q. Are you at a point in your life and your working life as well, that you can step away from the golf course and take a break, and just kind of get away from it all and not feel like you're leaving something away, like in the office?
 MIKE WEIR: I'd say so. I couldn't have done that at 25. It would have been too stressful in my mind to take three weeks off like that. But, you know, as I said, you know, your priorities change, when your parents get a little older and they're celebrating something special, you know, you've got to take the time to do those things. 
 And so, yeah, we're really looking forward to that. I'll do a little practicing when I'm over there. I'll find a range. I'll bring a shag bag, and find a worn out piece of grass to hit golf balls on.

 Q. After 16 you were alone on the scoreboard, and now that you look back, do you feel a little disappointed that you didn't --
 MIKE WEIR: You don't want to finish a round like that. It's never a good thing. But it wasn't because I was looking at the scoreboard and looking at where I am in the tournament because it's Thursday, and I just happened to hit a couple of poor shots. You know, my go to shot is a hard fade. 
 I've been hitting really at will, and I struggled with that today for some reason. That was, you know, kind of threw me for a bit of a loop. 18 I'm trying to hit a hard fade in there and hit a pull. And that shot, that's what I've been really working hard on is a nice, hard fade. I'll go work on it now. I know it's not that away. I'll spend some time on the range and get that back in the arsenal.

 Q. 12?
 MIKE WEIR: I hit 3-iron, it was a nice shot. 

 Q. You've played Presidents Cups together, do you see him coming back into his own?
 MIKE WEIR: Oh, yeah, definitely. I know he had not his greatest year last year, but this year he's played solidly. K.J. is such a solid player. He's a great guy, I love playing well him and being around him. The few times I've played in The Presidents Cup with him, he's a great guy and fun to be with. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT