VERIZON HERITAGE
April 15, 2010
Mike Weir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOHN BUSH: We'd like to welcome Mike Weir into the interview room at the Verizon Heritage, after a 5-under par, 66.   
 Good solid play out there, the eagle on No. 1, your 10th hole. Comment on the day as a whole.  
 MIKE WEIR: The day as a whole was very solid. I started off hitting the ball well. Having chance after chance early in the round, made a couple, and we got to the front side, which was my 10th hole, and I knocked it in from 145 yards. That was a great momentum booster. And that kick-started it. I could have been 4- or 5-under my first nine holes. But then again I made a couple of birdies on 5 and 6, and then my last three holes I played awful. I hit it in the bunker -- actually on 7 I hit a pretty good shot. The wind changed and I didn't get it up and down. And the last two holes I made a bad one at 8. I hit it up and over the trees, and saved par from 70 yards. And 9 I made a poor swing to the right with a hybrid club. I had to play it over the bunker, and got it up and down.   
 Overall, 5-under was about right. It could have easily been a couple more bogeys.   
 JOHN BUSH: Talk about being back at Harbour Town.  
 MIKE WEIR: Yeah. I've always enjoyed the tournament. I haven't played here for a long time because it's after The Masters and I'm usually wiped out. For a couple of reasons I wanted to come back. For one, it's a great tournament, and I know that it's important to play this event because it's been a stalwart to the Tour. I wanted to be involved with that. And, two, I'm taking a few months off in the summer with my family and my wife and I will turn 40, my brother turns 50 and my parents' 50th wedding anniversary, we're taking a family anniversary. So those two things combined is why I'm here.  
  
  Q. You've liked this tournament, but you've been here once --  
 MIKE WEIR: Twice, '98 and '99. I might be wrong. Maybe '98 I didn't get in. Maybe '99 was the only time, you're right.   
  
  Q. So actually it was a conscious decision to support the tournament is part of the reason you're actually here?  
 MIKE WEIR: Yes.   
  
  Q. And I guess what -- you hadn't seen the course in quite some time. Do you remember much of it?  
 MIKE WEIR: Yeah, when I played yesterday, the Pro Am, it definitely came back to me. I guess the narrowness of the golf course, I forget how narrow it is, and how tight some of the pin positions are, and how precise you have to be on a certain number of shots. So that usually suits my game. I'm usually a pretty good iron player. I usually keep it in play pretty good. So it did come back to me when I was playing the Pro Am.  
  
  Q. You said usually when you miss it, because it's after The Masters, and you're so wiped out. How are you feeling this week? Do you feel like you can continue this the next few days?  
 MIKE WEIR: Yeah, I was definitely a little fatigued. I took a couple of days off. I didn't get in here until Tuesday night. I flew home a couple of days. I was pretty disappointed in the way I played last week, but at the same time I've been really seeing improvement in my game. So I was excited to get here, and kind of kick the dirt off after getting beaten up last week, and get back to it this week. That was kind of my mentality coming in this week.  
  
  Q. Did you participate in the Olympics? Do I remember seeing you?  
 MIKE WEIR: No, I didn't participate, but I did go up.  
  
  Q. What was that experience like?  
 MIKE WEIR: It was great. It was wonderful up there. We were there the last four days. Got to take in a couple of hockey games and some speed skating. I took my daughters to the figure skating. Great atmosphere. It was great. We had a good time up there.  
  
  Q. It's a good year to be Canadian, is what you're saying?  
 MIKE WEIR: For those couple of weeks it was. I guess it is right now. Hockey playoffs started yesterday, too.  
  
  Q. So you're saying you flew home, you didn't come here --  
 MIKE WEIR: No, I flew home Sunday night and spent time with my girls, and watched my daughter's soccer game Monday night and tried to forget about Augusta. And tried to get in the mindset of what this place was going to be like. And forget about last week and get ready to go.  
  
  Q. Was the Pro Am your first round here?  
 MIKE WEIR: It was.   
  
  Q. Seemed like a lot of low scores out there this morning, how were the conditions?  
 MIKE WEIR: Yeah, you know, someone said Davis was talking about that earlier, and I agree with him. When you play in the morning the greens are great. The wind was down. You want to take advantage of that because the golf course as the day goes on only gets tougher. It seems to be, the few days I've been here, it seems the wind has been calm in the morning and picks up in the afternoon. You know the afternoon is going to be harder. You play in the morning you're hoping to get a good score in. So that's why you're probably seeing the low numbers.   
  
  Q. Your eagle on No. 1, what club did you use?  
 MIKE WEIR: 8-iron.   
 JOHN BUSH: To finish the card, the first birdie on No. 11?   
 MIKE WEIR: First birdie on 11. I believe it was a 3-wood and a 7-iron to probably seven, eight feet.   
 JOHN BUSH: 17?   
 MIKE WEIR: 17, I hit an 8-iron to about an inch. It was right -- so that 8-iron was good to me today.   
 No. 4 I hit a 5-iron to probably seven feet, maybe, made that one.  
 And then 5, I hit a driver and 3-wood over the green and pitched up to two feet.   
  
  Q. As well as you think this course seems to suit you, do you regret not coming here more in the past, even though it was after The Masters?  
 MIKE WEIR: Possibly looking back maybe I should have played it a few more times, but at the same time, like I said, usually after a Major I don't play. Now I have after the British Open is the Canadian Open, so I have to play that one. Normally I put so much into a Major championship that more than anything I feel like I'm not ready to start it up again the next Thursday. But hopefully this tournament goes for a long time. If I do well this week, I'll keep it up.   
 JOHN BUSH: Thanks for coming by.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT