FRYS.COM OPEN
October 25, 2009
Mike Weir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MIKE WEIR: I mean, I had some good rounds out here. After yesterday's disappointing round, it was good to come back. It's the last round of the year and I wanted to finish on a good note. Makes the next couple months feel a lot easier.

 Q. Last year you said you were going for everything because it was the last round of the year then. Same deal today?
 MIKE WEIR: Yeah, need to have that mentality the whole time. I think one is the course conditions. The course is soft. You know, it's a great golf course. I think all of us would be in agreement that we would love to see it play a little faster. Even yesterday we were getting some mud balls. I think they're trying to get it ready for all the snowbirds coming down here for the winter. 
 But, you know, to play a little firmer and faster would be a tougher test. But that's why you're seeing a lot of birdies out there. The course is in beautiful condition. 

 Q. Any thoughts of 59 go through your mind?
 MIKE WEIR: Yeah, I think after I a birdied the par-5, 4, I guess, you know, that got me to 8. You know, I knew I had a couple tough holes there. Obviously 7, 8, and 9 are no picnic. But hit a really nice shot into 5 that rolled over the green. I birdied 6 and at 7 actually made a nice two-putt and had two good chances on 8 and 9. 
 I knew there was an outside chance at it.

 Q. What was your longest putt today?
 MIKE WEIR: Not very long. The longest shot that -- I chipped in on 17, so that was really the only outside-of-the-realm birdie. The rest were probably -- the longest one was maybe 14 feet, something like that, 15 feet, tops. 

 Q. So you were really sticking it.
 MIKE WEIR: Yeah, I hit it close a lot today.

 Q. Are you kicking yourself a little bit for yesterday now?
 MIKE WEIR: Well, you know, I tried hard. I just didn't have it yesterday. Again, I got off to a bad start bogeying the first hole. Then I caught one of those mud balls. I hit it in the first cut of rough on No. 3 and hit a 7-iron that went 40 yards to the right. Had a huge clump of mud on my ball. Went into the trees and I made a 6.
 You know, 3-over par for 3 on this golf course, you know, tough to fight back. You just kind of felt a little off all day.

 Q. What kind of mentality will this put you in over the winter?
 MIKE WEIR: Well, you know, I want to work hard to get back to where I need to be. This is a great round. The year was a bit like the last two days. It was kind of like that. You know, I had some great rounds. 64 in the U.S. Open, and then I would follow it up with not too good of stuff. A little inconsistent, and just gotta sharpen that up a little bit more and be a little more consistent next year. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT