BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 13, 2009
Mike Weir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MIKE WEIR: I didn't even look at it. I just tried to finish strong. I birdied 15, had good looks on 16 and 17 and had a good chance on the last. I was just trying to make a bunch of birdies. I figured if I did that, that could take care of itself.

 Q. The year you won, was that at East Lake or was that in Houston?
 MIKE WEIR: That was in Houston. I played pretty well there last year, though. I think I finished 4th there last year. I like the golf course. 

 Q. Was your back bothering you prior?
 MIKE WEIR: No, just I don't know what it is. I had the guy work on it this morning. It's just tight, just real stiff. I can't get down to get my shoes, get the ball out of the hole. It's just tightness, so I had kind of a makeshift swing going today.

 Q. Did you go to the concert last night?
 MIKE WEIR: You know, I didn't go for that reason. When I got done yesterday, I didn't hit it that great yesterday, so I hit a lot of balls. When I got back to the hotel I was a little tight, so I thought, well, I'm not going to go to the concert. Some of the guys were going, and I thought I'd better not. I just kind of worked on it, got it worked on last night, and then this morning woke up tighter than ever. 
 It's a long stretch. You know, it's a lot of golf. 

 Q. Will you be watching the computer now?
 MIKE WEIR: Yeah, I mean, whatever happens. I can't do anything about it, so I'm not going to sit and watch it. I'm going to catch a flight home, and when I get home I'll check it out, whether I need to get a ticket or not.

 Q. Did you glance at any boards throughout the round?
 MIKE WEIR: I didn't.

 Q. You didn't see anything?
 MIKE WEIR: No.

 Q. You must have had an inkling, though. 
 MIKE WEIR: Yeah, my mentality was just to try to make birdies on the last few holes. 
 I thought I had a perfect number, and I did. The wind, I could see it blowing down, and it just kind of switched sideways on me.

 Q. It didn't miss but by about this much. 
 MIKE WEIR: Yeah, about a yard.

 Q. If this had been a tournament week would you have watched the scoreboard on Sunday?
 MIKE WEIR: Yeah, I'll watch it a bit more.

 Q. Then why not watch it for the FedExCup?
 MIKE WEIR: Because, I don't know, I guess I just want to just have that mentality that I just want to go out and play aggressive. I haven't finished off a lot of rounds really well, and I told Brennan today, I just want to be aggressive coming in. I just want to be really aggressive and finish the tournament off strong.

 Q. What was your yardage and your club at 18? 
 MIKE WEIR: I had 190 yards, and I hit 6-iron. 189 yards. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT