RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 25, 2009
Mike Weir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Mike, I hear we have some good news. You didn't stop that ball to move from 18.   
 MIKE WEIR: Yeah. We had to determine a couple of things, whether (indiscernible) the ball or I'd done anything to keep the ball from moving.   
 You know, from the real clean side of the little ball mark there, and it just chipped over on the ball mark. So we looked and just did the right thing and just went through the hole, and yeah. It was good because I played so well today, I hit so many great shots, and it was good to have another birdie.   
  
  Q. Yeah. You had a lot of great iron shots in there, a lot of missed opportunities on the Back 9.   
 MIKE WEIR: Yeah. I could have done real well today.   
 You know, the greens are so wet, and when you get the foot marks on there, they're not going to do exactly what you think they're going to do, but 6-under is a good round, good to be back in the thing.   
  
  Q. Well, great playing, and good luck the last 36.   
 MIKE WEIR: Thank you.   
  
  Q. Good round. (Indiscernible).  
 MIKE WEIR: Probably the longest signature I've had to wait for, but you know, I wanted to make sure we did it right, and I wanted to see what I'd done, and if I had done anything.   
 And you know, I saw that little ball mark, and I knew when I set it there, it was in a little bit of a precarious situation, whether (indiscernible) to move. And we went through it and watched it a bunch of times. You could see halfway through my shot that it was not where I dropped it or anything. I wanted to make sure that we got it right, so we got it right.  
  
  Q. It's a nice way to end the day.   
 MIKE WEIR: Yeah. I played very solidly. Had a number of opportunities on the Back 9. It was a good chance for birdies today. I played so well and burned the edge a lot. And it was good to have some birdies.   
  
  Q. I know after round one you wanted to at least play two more rounds. Give yourself a chance.   
 MIKE WEIR: Yeah. I mean I felt like today was a great ball striking day. I missed the second hole fairway, and other than that, I hit it right down the middle pretty much every hole.   
 You know, I got a lot of confidence after today's round. I played very well, and hopefully I can keep doing that and maybe see a couple more putts going in to get myself back in.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about the challenges this week? It's challenging enough for a guy like you, but to deal with the weather.   
 MIKE WEIR: Yeah. This has been such a crazy weekend. At least today I was able to play 18 holes and actually get in some kind of a rhythm, where first round was play three holes, stop for seven hours, play some more, and late in the day. And for me it was just tough to get any rhythm going in that first round, and today at least we got the second round in.   
  
  Q. As always, thanks for talking with us.   
 MIKE WEIR: Thanks.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT