MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 5, 2018
Mike Weir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MIKE WEIR: The greens are very, very quick today. You get up on the hole and you're breathing on the putt to get it down to the hole. And when they're that fast, the putt has to go in perfectly or it will lip out. I think that's what you're seeing today. You get moisture conditions, you get more control on the greens.  
   
 Q. The putter did work for you a little bit on the back nine.   
MIKE WEIR: Yeah, I made a couple of nice ones coming in, and that was nice. I felt like that was a big putt, even on the last hole. I got dusted on that third shot, from a perfect distance, and the wind totally switched. It was a nice two‑putt from down there.   
   
 Q. What's your mindset after 12? I guess you know you can make it up on the last few holes. What do you think at that point?  
MIKE WEIR: I mean you just kind of‑‑ yeah, just know that there's hopefully a lot of golf yet. And you stay focused. You lose your concentration out here, that's when you can make big numbers and it can get away from you. So it's important to stay with it. That's kind what you have to do, stay with it until the end.  
   
 Q. What were your clubs and yardages on your birdies?  
MIKE WEIR: Let's see, here, I was in the greenside bunker on 13 and hit it to two feet.   
On 15 I hit a nice wedge, but it was probably 12 feet, maybe.   
And then 17 was probably about the same, maybe 12, 14 feet. So just nice mid‑range putts, and I wasn't able to get many of those today. It just seemed like when I hit good shots, I'm on a little side slope, and I hit a nice 6‑iron, same with like 14. Those holes the wind is coming away from you, left‑to‑right. For a lefty, those pins are difficult to get close to the hole. I need to sharpen up my wedges. I had a couple of wedges out there, three of them I'm a little bit disappointed in; 18, my little pitch that I had into 11 and No. 7. Those I've got to do a better job on.  
   
 Q. Contrast the experience trying to play here as to a standard TOUR event?  
MIKE WEIR: Yeah, it's just with the slopes of the greens and where they put the pin positions, you're in such small area, that if you're a yard or two, the ball is just not staying there, like some TOUR event it might say 15 feet, it's 50 feet, catching the slope and risk running away. It might go off the green, that's the difference here. The landing areas are very, very tight.  
   
 Q. Can you translate that forward?  
MIKE WEIR: I think just a couple of things and then the swirling around, it's not consistent. Once you get on the course it's completely changing around. And those narrow little spots where the pins are, it's a guess. Quite frankly on half the shots it's a guess. I had a good chance on 16. I'm hitting good shots. There's lots to be positive about. A lot of really good tee shots. I was on the wrong side of a lot of things today and that can happen out here. Hopefully I'll get on the right side tomorrow.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT