THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT
June 5, 2009
Mike Weir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Mike, nice day, huh?   
 MIKE WEIR: Yeah, it was a good day today.   
  
  Q. Talk a little bit about you got on a roll a little bit, huh?   
 MIKE WEIR: Yeah. I finished nicely just like I did yesterday. Kind of the middle of the round was -- some good stuff but just nothing happening for me. Felt like kind of one of those days midway through the round where I hit some good shots and the wind kind of switched on me a couple of times.   
 Made some nice putts on the back side. Burned a few as well. All along, you know, I played really well today.   
  
  Q. No position now? Talk about that for tomorrow.   
 MIKE WEIR: Yeah. Two more days. The golf course playing long. It's a tough challenge out there right now. It's really, really long golf course, and the greens are so fast, so difficult.   
 Two more days, hopefully I can keep doing what I'm doing?   
  
  Q. Is there a shot oar a putt that sort of changed things for you to get you going?   
 MIKE WEIR: Not really. Maybe number 9. I got fooled by the wind on #, hit it over the green with a wedge. Had a terrible, terrible lie. Hacked it out there about 15 feet and made that for par.   
 Then from there, I just played really nicely after that. That was nice.   
  
  Q. Mike, when you say it's playing long, the fairways have not dried out as fast as the greens have. Is that what the case is?   
 MIKE WEIR: I would say that. Just think about holes, for example. In years past hitting a 6 and 7 iron in number 10, and yesterday it was a driver and a 3 iron. Today it was a driver and a hybrid, which is like a 5 wood for me. Some real long holes.   
 There's some other ones out there I'm not quite thinking of right now. Some really beefy holes out there today.   
  
  Q. Best part of your game today?   
 MIKE WEIR: Best part of my game? I don't know. Probably minor play. I would say my iron play was real solid, controlled my distances pretty well, except for that shot on 9. That was really just the wind. But I hit my irons real nice.   
  
  Q. Are these the best greens you guys play on all year?   
 MIKE WEIR: Yeah. I'd say probably so. I can't think of any greens that are any better than this. I got on the 1st hole and saw -- started to get that white look to them where they're just so fast. You get above the hole, and you get a little puff of wind.   
 I hit above the hole on 17. Got a little above it and coming down the slope and caught a little puff of wind. It pushes it an extra six feet or so, six, seven feet with that extra puff of wind behind it.   
 That's how fast they are. Even a little puff of wind can make a huge difference.   
  
  Q. Mike, what was the year that you were DB I think, tee 2 here?   
 MIKE WEIR: Last year.   
  
  Q. Even though, like you said, it's playing long today, what's, I guess, the last couple of years? What's the reason you're playing this course well?   
 MIKE WEIR: I think I just love the place. Just a great golf course. Always putted fast greens pretty well. You know, I think it's just -- I just love the golf course, I think. That's more than anything.   
 My history of my career probably I've played tough golf courses well. This is no different. This is a tough one.   
  
  Q. Mike, how about the whole package here? You talk about the greens? Just this place and the whole thing.   
 MIKE WEIR: Yeah. You have to have everything. You've got to be able to control your pin. You have to obviously hit it on the fairway first and foremost. You've got to be able to control the spin on your irons.   
 You're going to be left with some six, eight footers for pars because you got on the wrong side of the hole. A good putt sometimes is eight feet. So you just got to be able to make some of those.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT