AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 12, 2009
Mike Weir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 MIKE WEIR: 13 I birdied, I hit a 9-iron to about ten feet, made that. I birdied the next hole, as well. I made a long putt from probably 25 feet on 14, and then I hit a drive and a rescue club to about six feet for eagle on 18, so that was probably the best shot I made today was on 18.
 And then the front nine, I seemed to have a lot of chances, didn't make much. I birdied No. 2, which was -- I hit a 5-iron to about eight feet or so and made that, and then the rest of the day was just all pars. I parred in from there. I had chances on almost every one of them, but all the way around, it was a good day. 

 Q. With the weather holding off like it did today, did it seem like this was a day that you kind of needed to go low? 
 MIKE WEIR: Well, you just take what the golf course gives you. I mean, when it's soft like that, sometimes it's really hard to get the ball close to the hole because when you get a wedge in your hand, sometimes it's tough to control the spin. You know, you pretty much have to fly the ball right to the hole. 
 If you hit the fairways, you can maybe attack some of the pins, but if you don't hit the fairways it's a little bit tougher. The scores so far are not crazy low because I think the greens get a little bit softer and there's a lot of footprints out there, so it's real hard to shoot 9- or 10-under when the greens are like they are. I mean, they're in great shape, but they're just so soft that they're really making a lot of heel prints and things like that out there.

 Q. What do you like about this place, because you seem to do well a lot of years. 
 MIKE WEIR: Yeah, I've been close a lot here. I just love the area. I love the golf courses. Cliché, they suit me eye, but they do. I just feel comfortable on the courses. You know, I always look forward to this tournament, look forward to playing here every year, and I've got a great partner. He helped me four shots today. We're close to the lead as a team, which is exciting. I just enjoy the atmosphere. 
 I played well in the Hope and play well here. I guess I like the pro-am format. They maybe keep me relaxed. 

 Q. Who's your partner? 
 MIKE WEIR: George Roberts.

 Q. That's typical, right?
 MIKE WEIR: Yeah, we've played together probably six of the last seven years. Yeah, we had fun out there, and I think that's part of it. I'm playing with Dean Wilson, who's a college buddy of mine, and he played well today, and I think we just had a good day out there.

 Q. Is your year going about the way you had hoped, ahead of schedule, behind schedule? How would you put that? 
 MIKE WEIR: I mean, I've only played two tournaments. It's pretty early to say. But after a couple months off, to finish third in the Hope was pretty good, a good start. I didn't play that well in Phoenix, but it's a nice start here. Hopefully I can keep that going. 

 Q. On to Rivvie next week?
 MIKE WEIR: Rivvie next week. This is the first of three in a row, so I'll play here and then play next week and then the Match Play, so pretty busy next few weeks. 

 Q. You mentioned the Match Play. I understand you took a look at the golf course there. I wondered two things, what you thought of it, one; number two, what you look for when you go play new courses in preparation for a tournament like that. 
 MIKE WEIR: Well, I think when you're looking at a new course like that, just get a feel of what you're going to deal with, what kind of shots you're going to need to practice a lot. It's an extremely long golf course. We played it the Monday, I guess, of Phoenix -- Tuesday of Phoenix, and it was cold. The ball wasn't really traveling like it normally does in the desert, so it seemed to play extremely long. 
 I guess you're just trying to get a feel for what kind of clubs you're going to be needing, what kind of -- if you're going to be hitting a lot of long irons or if it's a wedge golf course, but this one is a long golf course. You're going to be using a lot of long irons. It's very difficult around the greens. The greens have huge swales in them, so short game is going to be key out there, too. 

 Q. Did it fit your eye at all? 
 MIKE WEIR: I don't know. I think maybe when I get down there and play it a couple more times, I'll get a little better feel for it. Like I said, it was a really chilly morning. There was a lot of tough tee shots where it just seemed like playing the first time was tough to pick the right line. I think going around the second time I'll kind of know where to aim a little bit better because there was kind of some blind visual tee shots there. I don't know, hopefully it fits my eye once I get a few practice rounds in there. That day it didn't. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT