FRYS.COM OPEN
October 26, 2008
Mike Weir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You obviously like this golf course, don't you?  
 MIKE WEIR: Uh-huh, I've shot some good rounds out here. Today the conditions were right to go after it. The greens were fairly soft, I think, for the overseed, and they put a little water on it. So it was a day that you needed -- from the position I was in, I needed to really try to attack and got a little fortunate with that shot on 15.   
 But I played well. I had plenty of opportunities to even be lower. I missed probably four or five putts inside of ten feet, and it could have really been special round, but it was still a great round. Good way to finish on the last hole with a nice 25-footer.  
  
  Q. Did you really predict a 58 on the putting green?  
 MIKE WEIR: I didn't predict it. Sandsy was saying he was going on the pregame, and I said, "I'm going to go after it today." I didn't predict anything, but I was going to try.  
  
  Q. Well, you came close.   
 MIKE WEIR: Yeah.  
  
  Q. Conditions compared to last year, you had winds and the Bermuda compared to this was a lot different?  
 MIKE WEIR: Yeah, I think it was easier this year, I do. Earlier in the week I thought it was going to play quite a bit longer. The course still played a little longer but still not a whole lot. It still firmed up pretty good, and the greens being the way they were, they were perfect out there. I think conditions are probably a little easier than last year.  
  
  Q. The last half of this year might compare to the last half of last year when it was so spectacular, but this year you've got to be pretty happy with the consistency?  
 MIKE WEIR: Yeah, I've been right there. I've been knocking on the door, and you've just got to have a few things go your way when you win a tournament, and I just haven't quite gotten over the hump, but I put myself there enough, so it's a good thing for next year.  
  
  Q. When you have a finish like this, do you get tempted to go, oh, maybe I'll try one more?  
 MIKE WEIR: No, I'm tired, and I put everything I had into this week. I practiced hard, and I need a break. My family is ready for me to be home for a while.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT