DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
August 30, 2008
Mike Weir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   STEWART MOORE: We'd like to welcome our current leader, Mike Weir, to the interview room here at the Deutsche Bank Championship, sitting at 13-under par now through two rounds, and a little bit of a slow start this morning. You were 2-over through four holes and this is certainly a tournament that's shaping up where you need to make a lot of birdies. Was there any worry or frustration early on?   
 MIKE WEIR: Yeah, I mean, obviously it wasn't a great start, but there's lots of golf to be played, and I just kept telling myself that. I knew I was playing fine. I hit one bad tee shot on 12 and made a bogey there. Then three-putted 13, and then once I hit a nice shot into I guess it was 15 today, where I hit it close, hit it to probably four inches, just had a little kick-in, and that kind of got my momentum started.  
 I hit a good shot into 17 and 18, and away I went.  
 STEWART MOORE: Why don't we go through the birdies.   
 MIKE WEIR: 17, I hit 3-wood and 9-iron to about ten feet.  
 18, I hit second shot rescue club over the green and pitched up there about six feet, made that one.  
 1, hit a rescue and a 9-iron to three and a half, four feet.   
 I guess my only other birdie was the short par-4. I hit a really good drive right in front, putted it up there from the fringe to about two feet and tapped in. The longest birdie I made, I guess, was 17, it was about ten feet. Yesterday I made some long ones, and today I seemed to burn the edge on a lot, but all in all, it was pretty good.   
  
  Q. How do you like the birdie-fest type tournaments? It looks like if it stays kind of soft and overcast you might have to keep the pedal to the metal. I know you played well at Doral back in the days when the scoring was really well.   
 MIKE WEIR: Yeah, here and there I've done okay. I've won the Bob Hope, which was 27-, 28-under, and in '98 when I had to go back to Q-school after my first year in '99, I won Q-school in Palm Desert down there with a bunch under, close to 30-under or something.   
 You know, I've been able to do it in the past. It's not my favorite. I seem to play best on tough golf courses, when just a couple under par is the best. But I'm going to have to do a little better.   
 This golf course was a little bit tough for me today, no question. I had lots of 7-, 8-, 9-irons and wedges yesterday. Today I had lots of 3-, 4-, 5-irons with soft conditions and early in the morning and the ball not running out. When the golf course gets like that, it plays a little tougher for me because I can't carry it as far as some of the longer guys, but I managed to get it around pretty good today.  
  
  Q. Does your mode of attack sort of have to adjust to more flag hunting and cutting corners and being a little more aggressive, I suppose, because you know everybody else is doing it?  
 MIKE WEIR: No, because that's not my game. I mean, I can't -- I take what I can do. I can fly the ball about 270 yards, and if a bunker is 285 I'm not going to try to cut a corner because that would be dumb. I just take what I can get and rely on my wedge game, and hopefully you get a good flat stick going during the rest of the week, and that's the way I'm going to contend.   
  
  Q. How difficult is it to come back after a round like you had yesterday, and if you don't get off to a really good start, not to get caught up in what happened yesterday?   
 MIKE WEIR: I think maybe when I was younger and maybe a rookie, that might be a factor, but now I just -- you know, it's a long week, and yesterday was a great day. I'm glad that it happened and it got me off to a great start, but today is a new day. I can honestly say I didn't think about yesterday at all. I didn't get off to the greatest start and I was just concentrating on bringing that round back. Yesterday was history, really.   
  
  Q. Did J.B. happen to talk about the Ryder Cup, or could you see any pressure at all on him as far as that went?  
 MIKE WEIR: No, he did not bring it up, and I certainly wasn't going to bring it up. Obviously it's probably in the back of his mind, but -- I can't say that. I don't know if it was there.  
  
  Q. It may have been in the front of his mind.   
 MIKE WEIR: Maybe. But he just didn't make any putts this week. He was playing fine. I think -- I personally think he'd be a great pick. If I was the captain, I'd be definitely taking a hard look at him. He has so much power, and he's been playing well. Looks good to me.   
 STEWART MOORE: Mike, thanks.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT