RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 27, 2008
Mike Weir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Did you have fun, Mike?   
 MIKE WEIR: I did. Yeah, I played well today. You know, any time you win a tournament, I was just saying over there, you have to have a few breaks go your way. I had a few putts slip out. All the guys are going to have that. The wind switches on you a few times down in the valley. But, yeah, I played nicely today.  
  
  Q. No matter how you finish, what is that like walking off 18 and you're in Canada?   
 MIKE WEIR: Well, it's special. I'm lucky that I'm one of the very few guys that get a chance to have something like that happen.   
 You know, Sean and I were commenting coming up there how cool it is and how special it is. You know, it doesn't get old. It's pretty neat.  
  
  Q. As you waited for him there on the fairway, what was that all about?   
 MIKE WEIR: I like Sean a lot. He's a good player, very good player. One of the best young guys we have on the tour. I've got a lot of respect for his game. He's a great young guy. Just wanted him to experience that.  
  
  Q. With the weight of the country on your shoulders, some might say it's extra pressure. Were you looking at it that way?   
 MIKE WEIR: There's no question it is. But I enjoyed it and played well this week.   
  
  Q. Did it take you a while to get to enjoy this? All the people, the attention, the autographs. You don't get this when you go to a regular PGA TOUR stop. Has it taken a while to get used to it?   
 MIKE WEIR: It does take a while. Yeah, it's taken a long time. But, you know, I do enjoy it. Like I said, I feel the momentum.   
 When things are starting to go well, they kind of pick you up when things aren't going well, and that can be an advantage.  
  
  Q. You start feeding on that as opposed to feeling that you're in a bubble?   
 MIKE WEIR: Yeah, exactly. You've got to use it to your advantage. That's what I've learned to do is use it to my advantage.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)?  
 MIKE WEIR: I'm sure glad I'm not playing golf next week. I'm going to be sitting on a beach. So, you know, it's been an exhausting two weeks. I can't believe it's only been two weeks. It seems like I've been on the road for about a month. The last two weeks have been pretty tough all the way around.  
  
  Q. Do you think it would help if there were a few more Canadian flags spread around a little bit?   
 MIKE WEIR: No question. If we had a few more guys, we've got to get there. There's a lot of talent in this country, a lot of young guys. I see them doing some great things going forward. So, hopefully, we'll get some guys that are in contention out here.  
  
  Q. Have you played with Nick Taylor at all?   
 MIKE WEIR: I haven't. I didn't see him at the U.S. Open, and finally got a chance to meet him here. Seems like a solid young kid. He seems to have a steady head. He's not a long bomber or anything. But maybe can he learn that consistent game.   
  
  Q. Do you like the idea of having the low Canadian award?   
 MIKE WEIR: I didn't know that.   
  
  Q. When you made the birdie on 8 what was going through your mind?   
 MIKE WEIR: That was obviously a lucky shot and a lucky putt. I felt like right through there, 4, 5, 6, those are the little breaks. Putt didn't break on 4, and 5 hit a great bunker shot that didn't stop. And then 6, you know, that's a foot from rolling right back down the hill, So I didn't walk off with any birdies there.   
 Like I said, when those things happen, when you win a tournament, those things tend to roll close to the hole. You capitalize on them. I made that on 8 and I thought you never know.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT