RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 26, 2008
Mike Weir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: How important was it to regroup on that back nine?   
 MIKE WEIR: I said we needed to somehow get to double digits to have a chance. You know, I was just saying to the guys over there, the last 27 holes were just stale. I felt like I hit a lot of good shots, lot of good putts. Nothing was happening.   
 The two bogies I hit today, made a nice shot on the 2 and made a bogey. Got wind gusted on 12. Other than that, I made some nice saves on the turn, and it was nice to hilt some nice shots coming in here.   
  
  Q. Was that last birdie especially important?   
 MIKE WEIR: Yeah, I didn't want to let that one slide. I just had a nice number and hit a great wedge in there, so I didn't want to let that one get away.   
  
  Q. (No microphone)?  
 MIKE WEIR: I think maybe the shot, making that birdie on 14. I was playing long. I had 190 yards and a really good 5-iron to about 8 feet and finally got a birdie. You know, then I had a nice look at it on the next hole.   
 That was a pretty easy pin on the next hole, and I was able to birdie that. So I finally got a little momentum going.   
  
  Q. (No microphone)?  
 MIKE WEIR: I could be at 5, too, you know? I'm not thinking about that. You know, it's golf. I'm happy where I'm at.  
  
  Q. Is it tough playing late?  
 MIKE WEIR: It's been tough. It's been tough for everybody to wait. We're not used to playing. Your clock gets on that schedule to be done around before dinner.   
 When you're playing late like that, it's hitting into the sun a lot. It's just long waiting around. Almost like -- we were talking out there -- the energy is it quite not there. I think we were probably all hitting it 15, 20 yards shorter off our tee shots than normal because there wasn't the power there.   
  
  Q. (No microphone).   
 MIKE WEIR: You just play your game. I've won from coming behind like that today in different tournaments. You don't change your game plan.   
 You've just got to go out there. It's about to go your way, you make a few, get on a roll and get some momentum, that's how you shoot a low number. You don't do it by forcing it. So hopefully, tomorrow, I'll get a good start.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT