THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY MORGAN STANLEY
June 1, 2008
Mike Weir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Talk about the challenge today. Your game, you came out in the opening half and played well. Take me through it.   
 MIKE WEIR: I was hitting it good. The wind got me three times. And when you win a tournament you got to -- when you win you got to guess right a few times, and I did that yesterday. I just happened to time it right, as I said, and then even yesterday. Today three times in a row I guessed wrong. I mean, it was -- I hit a good drive and a perfect 5-iron on 10. I thought it was a perfect shot and got gusted a little bit there and didn't get that up-and-down.   
 And then 11 was a total 180. Just it went from blowing 20 miles into me to blowing about 10 miles an hour down. So once the ball is in the air you can't do much about it. But that's enough of that. Kenny played great. He deserved to win and he's been playing great. And he deserved to win.   
  
  Q. A round in the 60s deserves to win?  
 MIKE WEIR: Yeah, it's a very difficult course out there today. It's a tough golf course. Very tough pin placements. The greens are super fast. As I said, standing in the middle of the fairway you don't know which way the wind is blowing. And when you're faced with this golf course you don't know what club to pull. It makes it hard.   
 12, the very next hole, I hit a perfect 7-iron. Even on 6 today. I was thinking 6 all the way and I went to 7-iron and I flew my 7-iron over the green because it switched and I made bogey there. It happened to me a number of times today.   
  
  Q. You got really within sniffing distance, right? You were close.   
 MIKE WEIR: I knew I was close and I was playing good and I felt good. Just, what can you do?   
  
  Q. What does that do to you mentally just there's so much uncertainty of what's going to happen?   
 MIKE WEIR: I think that the experience I have now, I'm not a rookie, I've been around a long time, you just shrug it off and laugh and just go on to the next hole and try to get it up-and-down and that's all you can do. You can't dwell on it.   
  
  Q. When did you kind of know that it was out of reach?  
 MIKE WEIR: Never. Not until the end.   
  
  Q. On 17 there, what did you hit?  
 MIKE WEIR: I thought it was going to break left there. I hit it right where I wanted and just, you just had to, it was above the hole so I tapped it and trickled it down there and just kind of didn't trickle left.   
  
  Q. Did you see the board?  
 MIKE WEIR: I saw the board. I knew I needed to make it to have a chance to get to the last.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT