FRY'S ELECTRONICS OPEN
October 19, 2007
Mike Weir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DOUG MILNE:  Thanks for stopping in, second round 64 today, that's the lowest round in the storied history of this tournament. 
 MIKE WEIR:  Two days.  (Laughing) 
 DOUG MILNE:  Just a couple comments, obviously things were clicking.  Just a few general comments about the round. 
 MIKE WEIR:  Yeah, looking at the is it as, very similar to yesterday and that's what it felt like, very similar but I was able to roll in a few putts.  Yesterday was a little frustrating.  I played very, very well and missed, you know, all kinds of putts inside of ten feet yesterday. 
 So it was nice to make a few today and finished off the round strong, making a couple birdies coming in.  And driving the ball well, hitting a lot of greens and gave myself lots of chances. 
 It's a tricky golf course.  First time I played it was Wednesday and around the greens is very difficult.  Playing desert golf and having to worry about grain is a bit of a change, so that's been a bit of an adjustment for everybody. 
 You know, I'm happy with where I'm at for sure. 

 Q.  Are you a fan of desert golf? 
 MIKE WEIR:  Yeah, I've always been a fan of desert golf.  I've won the Bob Hope before.  So, yeah, I do like desert golf.  I like playing in the west.  I played all of my college golf at BYU and played most of our tournaments in the west.  So, yeah I love playing out here. 

 Q.  Are you still pumped up from the Presidents Cup? 
 MIKE WEIR:  I don't know if I'm pumped up, but you know, still some good feelings going on there about my game from there that I've taken from there, no question. 
 Yeah, I think maybe I'm riding a little bit of confidence definitely from there, playing that well.  There's definitely some spill-over into this week I would say. 

 Q.  I know you're already huge in Canada anyway, but are you even huger now? 
 MIKE WEIR:  I don't know. 

 Q.  Have you noticed it a little bit maybe? 
 MIKE WEIR:  You know what, I'm not sure.  I know the fans were unbelievable there.  That was incredible. 
 You know, it's an experience that -- I was saying, for being on the International Team, I hope the guys, Angel from Argentina and K.J., I hope these guys get a chance to play in front of their fans like that, because it's a once-in-a-lifetime experience. 
 The Masters was very special obviously and obviously the highlight, but that was a very close second, just for the magnitude of it.  I had been thinking about that tournament for years, since the announcement was made.  So, you know, there was a lot of heat on me.  I was glad Gary picked me.  So with that pick, I felt even extra pressure to play well, and I'm glad I did. 

 Q.  Why did you play better at the Presidents Cup and now you're playing good now; why? 
 MIKE WEIR:  Well, I think I was playing well actually going in there.  I had had a good shot to win Tiger's tournament in Washington later in the summer, and kind of let it get away on the last few holes. 
 Played well at the British Open.  I was right in contention and finished three or four back. 
 You know, the last tournament I played before the Presidents Cup was the Boston, and I was leading after two rounds, playing well, and just kind of fell back again on the weekend, but felt good about my game.  Then I wasn't in the last couple FedEx events, so I had that break before the Presidents Cup. 
 But I felt like there was definitely some momentum there.  I felt good about my game, and I think the whole atmosphere of the event, being there, maybe my experience playing in three previous Cups, it really brought it all out, and I was just very focused there, and continue to ride it a little bit now. 

 Q.  Why keep playing at this point? 
 MIKE WEIR:  Well, you know, before we had the FedExCup, I always played well into the fall.  I don't look at it any differently.  Again, you know, living in Salt Lake now, it's an easy trip. 
 And I want to play because I'm playing well.  I'm going to have a nice break.  I'm playing in Hong Kong and in the World Cup in China, but up until that, I'll have three weeks until then, and after that I probably won't play until the Bob Hope, unless I win this week and go to Hawaii. 
 So I don't want to take too much time off.  There's going to be some significant breaks there, so I want to keep playing. 

 Q.  Is it quite a change for you guys to go from a desert golf course after playing the traditional golf courses for a long time? 
 MIKE WEIR:  Yeah, I notice a big change, obviously going from Montréal to Vegas; the ball was going 360 yards up there and just as dry as can be and the ball flying forever. 
 Yeah, pretty good adjustment going from that golf to here. 

 Q.  Can you talk about the seventh hole?  It seems to be taking a few prisoners the first two days. 
 MIKE WEIR:  Yeah, it's a really tough hole, a really tough driving hole.  I've decided to lay that back just with a 3-wood.  It's such a narrow drive through there and just take my 4-iron into that green and try to get away with par on that hole, and if you can sneak one, that's great. 
 Obviously it's designed for a par 5, maybe a tee back, and so you can't get it all the way to the corner.  Then, you know, you have a difficult green.  Yeah, it's a difficult hole. 

 Q.  A lot of the guys had some trouble reading it, it seemed like, with the grain, and you seemed to have done pretty well. 
 MIKE WEIR:  Well, I've had my misses, too.  The greens are very tricky.  And especially late in the day, when the ball was dying late in the day, the ball would take the grain and the ball would check and make u-turns around the hole.  Earlier this morning the greens are freshly cut and the ball is not quite taking the grain as much this morning.  That's probably why I made a few more putts today I think. 
 You know, tomorrow, playing later, I'm going to have to make the adjustment to really play that grain.  And everybody's dealing with that out there.  They are tough greens to putt.  And they are tough if you miss the green to get the ball up-and-down, because the grain is into you when you're chipping normally and, on to the green it's running away.  It's a Catch 22; you land it short of the green, it can grab into the grain; and if you land it past, it could roll.  It's really difficult around the greens. 

 Q.  Wondered if you made it to the hockey game last night? 
 MIKE WEIR:  No, I didn't, because it was an early time.  But tomorrow, go watch that game. 
 DOUG MILNE:  If we can run through the birdies. 
 MIKE WEIR:  Started on the back nine.  I was in the green-side bunker on 11 and made a 10-footer probably. 
 15, the drivable hole, I drove it in the green-side bunker and hit it out five or six feet. 
 17, I hit a drive and a 7-iron maybe 20 feet and made that one. 
 Then I 3-putted 18 and hit a drive and a 7-iron and 3-putted that hole. 
 Missed a couple short ones on 1 and 2, and then I made, on No. 3 -- I'm trying to think -- 

 Q.  Four feet. 
 MIKE WEIR:  Four feet.  (Laughter). 

 Q.  Maybe 3 1/2. 
 MIKE WEIR:  I was a little closer.  I was trying to hit a 9-iron. 
 On the par 5 I chipped to three, 3 1/2 feet. 
 No. 6, the short one, maybe ten feet. 
 And 8, the par 3, I hit an 8-iron to about five feet. 
 So not a lot of long putts, but, you know, some nice, solid putts there. 
 DOUG MILNE:  Well, as always, we appreciate your time.  Best of luck on the weekend. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT