FRY'S ELECTRONICS OPEN
October 17, 2007
Mike Weir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  You played so well in the Presidents Cup, and then played so well for yourself for a change; this has really been a real renewal for you the last month or so.   
 MIKE WEIR:  Well, yeah, I played great there, and yeah, I felt like I've been playing good the last few months, really.  I didn't get a chance unfortunately to play in the last couple FedEx tournaments.  Boston I was leading after a couple rounds, and you know, since the British Open, everything has been feeling a lot better.   
  
  Q.  Are you going to carry this through?  Are you going to ahead and play the rest of it?   
 MIKE WEIR:  No, this is going to be it.  I was thinking about playing Disney, but I've had a lot of time away from my family this year and I owe it to them to be around a little bit.  So this is the last tournament and hopefully I can play well here this week.   
  
  Q.  How has it all worked out for you schedule-wise, as a guy who generally likes to take time off toward the end of the year, to have to play deeper into it, but obviously enjoying playing deeper into it because you're playing well.   
 MIKE WEIR:  Yeah, obviously, you know, it's tough on families.  I think the new schedule is very tough on PGA TOUR guys and their families, because guys who have their kids, they are off in the summer, and the FedEx deal is right around the whole summertime.  So it makes it very difficult.   
 I don't know if there's going to be talk of maybe changing it up a little bit, but I know I'm not the only guy that feels the same way.  It's a great series, I think it's really, really good for the TOUR and I really like the series.  I would just like to see it maybe changed up schedule-wise maybe a little bit.   
 But I really like the FedExCup; I think it's good for the game.   
  
  Q.  Talk about this golf course, a few of the guys who live here know it well, but otherwise, it's new to a lot of players.   
 MIKE WEIR:  Today was the first time I played it.  I was doing a couple things and just got in last night.  Yeah, I think it's a good golf course.  The greens play a big role around here, a lot of roll-off areas around the greens, and a lot of grain on the greens you have to pay attention to.   
 I think the approach shots into the greens and putting is going to be key, because you're going to miss some greens and have to get it up-and-down off some funny lies around here.  It's not easy around the greens.   
  
  Q.  There's a lot of different reasons for guys playing in this tournament; what's your primary motivation?   
 MIKE WEIR:  Well, I mean, one, it's close to Salt Lake.  It's an easy trip.  You know, I've been playing well.  I just want to get back to winning and feel like my game is in good order to contend.  So just want to play one last one here.  I've got a lot of good friends here in the area, as well.  So all of those factor together.   
  
  Q.  A lot of big names in this event.   
 MIKE WEIR:  Yeah, there are a lot.  Obviously a lot of the guys that live here know the golf course well.  I think even though it's a Fall Series, it's still a PGA TOUR event, and we still want to win and we still want to compete in them.  And before the change of schedule this year, you know, you still had some big-name guys playing near the end of the year, whether it was Disney or Vegas or whatever it was.  So I'm not surprised there's some bigger-name guys still playing.   
  
  Q.  What changes would you like to see made, like you were saying earlier?   
 MIKE WEIR:  I would like to see it broken up a little more, not so much back-to-back to back weeks like that, because as you know, they are full weeks for us.  You can't take days off, really, when you have a travel day and then it you get a practice round, Pro-Am and you're off again.   
 To have it in the middle of the summer where most of the guys have families makes it really tough.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT