THE PRESIDENTS CUP
September 30, 2007
Mike Weir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Might seem like a silly question to some, because you've  won a major championship, but was this the greatest golfing thrill of your life to beat the No. 1 player in the world in front of your home fans in a tournament you had such a big part in bringing here?   
 MIKE WEIR:  Yeah, it's right there with it.  Obviously winning the Masters was such a thrill, but to play Tiger, you know, obviously he's the best there is and I had to play my absolute best today to beat him.   
 You know, it was a heck of a match, really, was back and forth and I got up early and he stormed back and I was able to hit some good shots coming down the end.  But I expected him to chip that in at the end there, and he almost did; that's just Tiger, and he's a class act.   
  
  Q.  What were your thoughts, you had taken the big lead 3-up through ten and then you let it get away and he actually took the lead.  Not many people come back on Tiger Woods after he's done that.  What were your thoughts at that point?   
 MIKE WEIR:  Well, you know I just kept telling myself I'm playing well.  Obviously he hit a great hit on 11 to go dormie, stiff; and I didn't birdie the par 5 and burned the edge actually on 10, and 13.  I just kept telling myself to be patient.  I know I was running out of holes but just keep hitting good shots and just keep playing.   
 You know, he gave me a few on the front side.  He missed a couple short ones, as well.  But I just was determined to you know, once he got ahead there, I wasn't going to let him finish it off early.  I just wanted to fight; no matter how it turned out, I wanted to fight to the end.   
  
  Q.  We've been trying to describe inadequately the scene here because it doesn't seem like words can do it right, can you talk about the feeling of this place and what it's been like these last couple of days?   
 MIKE WEIR:  The fans have been just incredible I think for both teams.  They have been cheering for everybody, obviously for our side probably a little bit more.  They have been great to everybody and the U.S. guys have said that.   
 For me being from Canada, to have this kind of support, it's overwhelming, really, and I'm having a tough time putting it into words what it really means to me because it's so shortly after.  But I need when I look back on my career, this may be something, maybe even more special than the Masters, the support I've gotten here.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT