THE PRESIDENTS CUP
September 30, 2007
Mike Weir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Can you describe the overall week? 
 MIKE WEIR:  Yeah, it's mixed emotions for sure.  We didn't win.  Our team didn't win.  I won a point; it's only one point.  It's a great win for me, but definitely mixed emotions being the fourth Cup team that I've been on, and we haven't been able to pull it out. 
 I really enjoy this format and I really enjoy this tournament, and I wish that the other 11 guys in there, along with myself and Gary -- maybe more for Gary.  This is the third time.  He's a put a lot of effort into this and I was really hoping we would pull a win out for him. 

 Q.  Compare your head as to where it was a week ago. 
 MIKE WEIR:  Actually I was pretty confident coming in here.  The last time I played was Boston, and I was leading after a couple days and let it slip away a little bit.  But I felt like my game was on track. 
 I'm obviously proud of the way I played this week.  I don't know if I can play any better.  I played really good and rolled the putter really well.  Hopefully I can keep it up the rest of the year. 

 Q.  It must have been a swing in emotion, the last few holes? 
 MIKE WEIR:  I thought my putt on 16 was going to break to the left and it flattened out and didn't -- yeah, I played it straight. 
 You know, 17, Tiger hit a good shot in there and I knew I needed to follow that up.  You know, obviously he didn't have his best day and I had my best day.  I mean, that's the way you're going to beat the best player, especially Tiger.  He didn't make as many putts as he normally does, and I was able to make some and that was the difference. 

 Q.  Talk about playing in front of the home crowd. 
 MIKE WEIR:  All week they were fantastic and especially today.  I was glad I gave them something to cheer about at the end, because outside of that, you know, our team, unfortunately we just couldn't quite get it early in the foursomes.  That's what killed us. 

 Q.  Whose idea was it for the wives to wear jerseys? 
 MIKE WEIR:  If I can remember, it was Liezl Els said ladies should get jerseys, so last night they rallied and got a bunch of jerseys. 
 The people were cheering for me, and you hear from the crowd, "We love you too, Tiger."  Any time the fans get a treat to watch him play -- I know all the media get to get inside the rope and get a firsthand chance to see how great he is and us as players know how great he is.  So to get a chance to play against him is special -- and outside of the game, he's a good friend and it was a heck of a match today. 

 Q.  Was there a pep talk last night? 
 MIKE WEIR:  I think everybody said something.  This morning we had a talk on the bus and everybody was really ready to go because we knew everybody was counting us out, and we believed in ourselves. 
 So, you know, there was a lot of great things said.  We were excited about today.  We really thought we could pull it back. 

 Q.  Preparing for today's round, was it different from a big tournament? 
 MIKE WEIR:  Yeah, you know, I think so.  I mean, you don't get these kind of crowds at a regular event, especially so much cheering for me.  So, yeah, I mean, the preparation wasn't any different.  I mean, the feel around the preparation, you know, when I hit a wedge shot or something and get real close, everybody was cheering for a shot on the range.  That usually doesn't happen at a regular event. 

 Q.  How does it compare to winning your first tournament in Canada? 
 MIKE WEIR:  I would say that's very similar.  That's a good comparison I think.  You know, that was obviously really special.  So was the Masters obviously.  But I think winning that first one and winning in Vancouver; this was very, very comparable to that. 

 Q.  We were all sort of talking in the first press conference about the possibility of playing with Tiger on Sunday and you deflected it and you said whatever will come on Sunday will come.  Looking back was this inevitable? 
 MIKE WEIR:  I wasn't sure.  All along -- I was a pick.  You were leaving those things up to Gary.  We were giving input as much as we can but that's Gary's decision.  You would think Angel, maybe he can match his power and that would be a good match-up. 
 But I think Gary just believed in the way I was playing this week and I believed in the way I was playing.  We needed some motivation being down so much.  We thought if maybe I could possibly get off to a really good start and see me doing some good stuff today, that would maybe spur on the rest of the guys.  So that was really a strategy behind that. 

 Q.  You looked like you had nerves on the first tee -- 
 MIKE WEIR:  You know when you finally start feeling good with your golf swing, that settles everything down.  When you're not hitting it well and you're trying to convince yourself to be confident sometimes -- you can do, you can trick your mind.  But when you're really feeling good about your swing, that just settles everything down.  So, yeah, I was really confident. 

 Q.  Will this change your fall schedule?  Obviously you have a lot of momentum going now. 
 MIKE WEIR:  I'm planning to play Phoenix -- next week off and playing Phoenix and now I think I'm going to add the next week in Florida, which is the new tournament in Port St. Lucie and then I'm playing Hong Kong, which is the week before the World Cup. 
 I want to keep playing.  I think after the World Cup, I'll be ready for a break.  It's been a busy year.  I've hit a lot of balls and really worked on my game.  I think I need a few weeks off and then really hit the training regimen and everything to get ready for next year and really build on the momentum of this week for next year. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT