AT&T BYRON NELSON
May 20, 2017
Jason Kokrak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Just some quotes on your round today.  Obviously a little different from yesterday.  You really hung in there and are not out of the picture by any means.
JASON KOKRAK: I'm definitely not out of this golf tournament.  Put myself in some very precarious positions today.  One bad break, newly sodded ground or whatever in front of that bunker that the ball ran through the bunker and I actually couldn't get really a good stance or a lie on that but just an unfortunate break there.
But, other than that, I think I only missed one putt that was really makeable but I just didn't hit the ball off the tee that well and give myself as many opportunities as I wanted.
Change that a little bit tomorrow and I'm looking forward to it.  I'd rather be stalking people than any other way.  But, you know, obviously the five shot lead disappearing overnight but, you know, I'm happy with where I'm at.  I'm still playing good golf and, you know, roll a couple more putts in tomorrow and be a fun day tomorrow.
Q. You mentioned the five shot lead.
Did you feel comfortable going into the round or a little discomfort of not having been in that position since --
JASON KOKRAK: Since Riviera last year.  Even last year at Riviera I was more nervous on Saturday for some reason than Sunday.
I'm looking forward to the challenge tomorrow.  Whether I'm ahead or behind, it's going to be a fun day.  I think it's going to be a shoot-out and fun.
Q. You have a moment like that on 5.  How were you able to gather yourself and you came back and made a birdie a two holes later?  How were you able to do that?
JASON KOKRAK: One of those things that happens in golf.  It was a bad break.  If it's in the bottom of the bunker it's not really that hard of a bunker shot.  Maybe at worse make bogey there.
You know, unfortunately 3-putt but, you know, I play under par golf other than that hole today so that was kind of the goal and I just got an unfortunate break.
Q. Bottom line, you held it all together.
You're still in great position going into tomorrow.
JASON KOKRAK: I think I'm only two shots back maybe.  That's one hole on this golf course and there's a lot of birdies to be had out there and I got to put myself in a better position off the tee and I'm looking forward to it tomorrow already.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT