ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 22, 2014
Jason Kokrak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Jason, awfully good playing, I know the birdie on 18 meant a lot to you, because you didn't birdie the par‑5s on the back nine?
JASON KOKRAK:   It is.   I hit the ball well all day.   One bad swing on 16, didn't hit a very good pitch, misjudged the spin.   I'm happy with the way I played.   I made some putts today.
I hit a lot of 3 and 4‑irons off some of the tees.   But to hit the fairways on these par‑5s, it's the great equalizer for me.   If I can get it in the fairway and have a long iron into some of these par‑5s it's very helpful. 

Q.   We don't know where Adam is going to be at the end of the day.   He could be right there where you can at least see him. 
JASON KOKRAK:   We can see him now.   It was out there today.   The pins yesterday were tough.   Today they were a little more gettable.   If I can make a few more putts, like I did today, I think I'm going to be in good shape.   I had a little bit of equipment issue a couple of weeks ago that got me into a little bit of a funk, but I'm sort of playing my way through it.   If I can hit fairways again tomorrow it will be good.

Q.   Overall talk about the round for us. 
JASON KOKRAK:   You know, I hit the ball good today.   I hit a lot of fairways.   I'm putting very well.   If I can get a few more to roll in tomorrow we'll be in good shape.   Just keep it in the fairways, keep it in greens, give myself as many opportunities as I can.   I did it today and hopefully I can do it tomorrow.

Q.   Adam didn't get too much far ahead of everyone today, were you keeping an eye on him?
JASON KOKRAK:   I'm not a scoreboard watcher, but I like to know where I stand.   So if I need to be a little bit more aggressive over the line, I'll be a little bit more aggressive over the line. 

Q.   Did you feel like 7 back was‑‑
JASON KOKRAK:   You know, you just never know what he's going to do.   If he shoots another 4‑ or 5‑under today, he's out of reach of everybody.   What was he at‑‑ started at 14.   If he goes to 19 around this place, and we're at 11, he's got an eight shot lead.   If he shoots even par, 1‑, 2, 3‑over, he still wins.   If he's within four or five shots, that first hole, if you can make birdie and he makes bogey, that's a whole new ballgame, just on one hole.   You can definitely make up strokes out here, because it's a hard golf course.   The greens are firming up, and I think they'll be a little bit quicker tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT