SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 10, 2014
Jason Kokrak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Jason, just get some comments on a good round for you today. 
JASON KOKRAK:   Yeah, you know, I didn't start off that well, got an unfortunate break, hit the palm tree on 10, but I made a great up‑and‑down for par, made a long one on 2, just kind of poked along, had a couple of good shots, started hitting the ball pretty solid, hitting the fairways. 
Made a great birdie on 1 and 2, and then 3 just left it in the bunker, misjudged how soft the bounce was out of the bunker, made bogey there. 
Had a really, really bad lie on 4 on the par‑3 there and just really didn't have any chance of probably getting it up‑and‑down.   I mean, it was completely buried.   So made bogey there. 
Left it short dead in the heart on the next hole, on 5. 
6, you know, I made a good par putt to keep my round going. 
7, I missed a short one.
8, I missed a short one.
9, I two‑putted for birdie. 
I'm happy with the way I'm playing right now.   I'm keeping the ball in play, keeping the ball in front of me.   But this weekend I'm going to have to make a few more putts.   I feel like the game is starting to make a turn for the better.   I didn't do a whole lot of practicing this off‑season, so just kind of playing my way into some good play.   But I'm pleased with where I'm at right now.

Q.   Take us through those birdies on 1 and 2. 
JASON KOKRAK:   Yeah, the birdies on 1 and 2, I hit basically a 4‑wood down the middle of the fairway, hit just kind of‑‑ I was right on the upslope there right in the middle of the fairway, just hit like a little half, 150, 9‑iron to about 15, 18 feet, read the putt perfectly, hit it with the right speed, went in the left center of the hole.
2, hit another great drive, a little toey, but drove it right down the middle of the fairway and actually almost hooped it from the fairway.   I only had about three inches left.   That was a pretty easy birdie. 
But just one mistake on 3 and 4.   Other than that, pretty solid round all day.

Q.   Conditions a little tougher today, a little windier?
JASON KOKRAK:   You know, I think it was a little bit tougher to judge the wind.   I think it's swirling a little bit more today and maybe gusting a little bit more today.   I thought when I teed off yesterday it was pretty constant.   It wasn't too bad.   You were able to judge where it was coming from most of the day, maybe a couple switches here and there.   But it didn't kicked up early this morning.   Even when I was on the practice tee at 6:15, 6:20 it started to blow a little bit. 
But I think the afternoon guys are definitely in for it this afternoon as opposed to yesterday.   I think I had one of the lower rounds in the afternoon.   But I think either way the afternoon guys have it tougher. 

Q.   How were conditions this morning compared to yesterday?
JASON KOKRAK:   You know, I wasn't out here in the morning yesterday.   I think today was a little bit swirling winds today, more swirling winds, and yesterday it was more constant.   I think the wind kicked up a little bit earlier today as opposed to yesterday, but overall you can know where the wind is at, you can still get this golf course.   It's not blowing like it was in the pro‑am on Wednesday.   It was blowing really hard.   But we'll see.   It's going to be tough to judge, but it's a tough golf course, and if it stays windy it'll be even tougher.

Q.   What's been the key to your play this week?
JASON KOKRAK:   You know, just keeping it in play, keeping it in front of me, judging the lies coming out of the fairways.   Most of them jumped for me.   Other than that, I've hit a lot of fairways, trying to play smart golf.   I'm making putts, those five‑ to ten‑footers, to keep my round going here and there.   I think that's been the key.   If I can continue to make those and continue to hit more greens, you know, the scores are going to get lower and lower.   But tomorrow is another day, and got to go get it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT