SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 9, 2014
Jason Kokrak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   4‑under, I know you're probably a little disappointed not to make 4 at the last hole, but still, 4 is a good start. 
JASON KOKRAK:   Yeah, not too bad.   I got off to kind of a funky start.   I hit it great.   I hit most of the fairways right out of the gate, hit it over the green on No.2 and had a perfect lie, chipped it in.   Great putt on No.3, about from 15, 18 feet straight up the hill, kind of snuck in the left side. 
Then I hit way too much club on No.4, the par‑4.   Had a really tough chip, and it came off absolutely perfect, and chipped in again.   Got off to a pretty hot start with two chip‑ins there and then three birdies in a row.   Held it together, made a pretty good birdie on No.9, hit the green in two. 
Back side I just didn't hit the ball as well.   Didn't hit as many fairways.   Held it together, made some five‑, six‑, seven‑, eight‑footers to save pars here and there to keep my round going, and then misjudged the lie on the 18th here, that chip shot.   But other than that I'm happy the way I played.   I actually would have probably made that putt, but I hit a spike mark and it jumped on me.
Other than that, happy with the way I started.   I took some time off this off‑season, so it's nice to come out and play well.

Q.   You've been around the block a couple times now.   What do you hope to get done in 2014?
JASON KOKRAK:   Yeah, a buddy of mine texted me this morning, he's like, your rookie year you struggled but you kept your card.   Second year you play solid, sniffed a couple wins here and there.   But was right around the leaderboard.   But just putting myself in that position more times during this '14 season I think is going to be great for me.   I feel more comfortable out here year after year.   But the end goal is to win.   I really want to win out here, and I think I can.   I think I showed it a couple times last year, and even at the beginning of this year, the 2014 PGA TOUR season, not the calendar year.   I played well at Fry's and just didn't play well on Sunday, and then I did the same thing, just didn't‑‑ I hit the ball pretty well at Sea Island, just didn't make any putts. 
The more I can put myself in that position, the better off I'm going to be. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT