THE MCGLADREY CLASSIC
November 8, 2013
Jason Kokrak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Jason, 5‑under par 65 today.   That's a heck of a round in these conditions?
JASON KOKRAK:   Yeah, I played solid.   Drove the ball really well today.   Yesterday I putted great.   Just got myself in some bad spots and misjudged one chip that cost me a double yesterday.   But I hit a lot of greens, hit maybe couple 2‑putts, one mistake on No. 10 which was a three‑putt, but other than that, it was a really solid day, got lucky with a long bomb on the par‑5 on the back side there, but other than that, pretty solid round.   Drove it in good spots, missed it in the right spots, and made a couple nice putts to save my round and keep it going.

Q.   I was going to say, you only missed three fairways and three greens.   It has to be one of the best ball‑striking rounds of the year so far. 
JASON KOKRAK:   Yeah.   I'm really pleased with it.   Didn't hit it as close as I wanted to with some of the clubs that I had, hitting driver off the tee, you know, into the wind. 
But you know, I'm very pleased with it.   I gotta put myself in position.   There's 36 more holes, so hopefully it blows like this and I can put up two more good solid rounds like that.

Q.   Well, with your length that you have off the tee, there's only two par‑5s, both very reachable for you.   Have you been hitting a lot of irons off some of these tees?
JASON KOKRAK:   You know, it just depends on the wind.   I hit iron off a couple tees that I normally wouldn't today just to kind of get it in play, get it in the fairway.   That's the name of the game out here.   If you can hit it in the fairway, you can really control your ball.
I think on 14 I missed the fairway left but hit a good drive.   Great lie in the rough, but you never know what it's going to do when it gets up into that wind.   So I ended up hitting the shot and hit it high on the face.   And I had 40 yards left and 150 in.

Q.   On this very windy Friday, 65 here in the second round.   Just how good of a score was that?
JASON KOKRAK:   Ball striking was there today.   Ball striking was there yesterday.   Just had a couple of hiccups where I got it in some bad spots, misjudged one lie out of the rough.   But other than that, you know, I think I only missed three greens today, one three‑putt. 
But got lucky on the par‑5, I think it's 15, made a long bomb from the back of the green, maybe just off the back of the green, but ball striking was there, you know, just put it in the spots, let the wind do what it was going to do and just didn't try to complicate things.

Q.   Thursday, barely any wind.   Friday, a whole different matter.   What's the toughest adjustment you guys have to make when you're out here and you know what you're going to deal with?
JASON KOKRAK:   I just think the yardages.   I mean you got 150 yards in on yesterday.   That's a wedge for me normally, but I mean today you could be hitting anything up to maybe a 6‑iron into some of these holes blowing 25, 30milesanhour in your face.
But it's tough with the cross‑winds.   You know, during the Wednesday pro am it was a little bit more into my face on 10, 11, 13, that kind of stretch there, but you know, today was a little more cross winds.   You gotta just kind of pick and choose where you needed to try to make birdie and play aggressive, but just hit as many greens.   I'm putting it great, so if I can hit just as many greens tomorrow and Sunday, I guess, we'll do pretty good.

Q.   As far as you hit it, do you like conditions that you saw on Thursday or do you like what we had here on Friday?
JASON KOKRAK:   You know, my ball striking is really pretty key right now.   I think a it'll play into my favor to play a little bit windy.   Maybe not quite as gusty and windy as it is today for the putting aspect.   But you know, 15 to 20‑mile‑an‑hour winds would be fine with me, but I think it's just an easier golf course for me to climb closer to the leaders with a little bit of wind as opposed to shooting 7, 8‑under par like the first round.

Q.   One of the birdies you had today on the fifth hole.   Apparently you're getting a little bit worse on that.   What happened on that hole earlier this week for you?
JASON KOKRAK:   In the pro am the wind was definitely a little bit different yesterday and today actually I hit it right at the same line.   I just landed about five, six feet shorter than it did, but the Wednesday pro am I hit a tee shot right at the flag stick, down off the right and it ended up popping in the hole for‑‑ actually, the last roll apparently a buddy of mine, Matt Every, told me it was last roll right in the middle of the cup for a hole‑in‑one on the par‑4.

Q.   What could you see from the tee or when did you finally know?
JASON KOKRAK:   I knew once I got to the tee.   Matt was kind of going pretty crazy up on the green, so I kind of knew it was either close or in the hole.   So I was kind of smiling going up to the green, but I knew once I didn't see it on the green or over the green it was most likely in the cup.

Q.   Well, great playing.   Keep it up on the weekend.       







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT