FRYS.COM OPEN
October 11, 2013
Jason Kokrak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Take us through that last hole.   
JASON KOKRAK:   You know, my caddie and I were talking about where the wind was off the tee.   I was thinking about 3‑iron, and he was like, Nope, it's not straight downwind.   So I hit the 3‑wood, hit it down the right side.   Hit a perfect draw down the middle of the fairway.  
Then the same thing.   Middle of the fairway we knew where the wind was.   We had 206 front and then 214 hole and helping wind off the left, I guess.   Hit a perfect cut 6‑iron.   Landed perfectly in the middle of the green or right on the front edge, and had to take a peek in the middle of the hole.   I guess I hit to nine inches.   Looked pretty close.  
But I hit a perfect shot.   Soon as I hit it and it hit the green my caddie yelled for it to go in.   I knew it was a good shot.   I knew I took a perfect amount off the 6‑iron to hit it on the front edge of the green and made the putt.  
   
 Q.   Runner‑up here.   What do you like about the place?  
JASON KOKRAK:   You know, I think you got to hit the ball straight here.   There are some holes that the longer hitters can take advantage of.   I think No. 2 I can think it over the bunkers.   That helps me compared to some of the other guys that have to fit it up the left side.   
I can hit 3‑iron off a couple tees.   Couple other holes, you know ‑‑ I went for the green on 12 for the first time this week yesterday.   Made par, but I made birdie today laying up.   I think if you pick and choose where to be aggressive and not aggressive you can really get at this place.  
But if you can keep it in play and know where to miss it, you can really get after this course.   I went after No. 17 today.   It was a little bit helping wind and just toe hooked it into the left bunker.   I made a really good bunker shot and made the putt, so...  
If I can get it in the fairway on 18, we'll be good.   That's the only shot that really given me issues this week.   I like the golf course.   The greens are a little bit slower than they were last year, but I think it's going to take another two solid rounds to take this thing home.  
   
 Q.   What did the finish mean to you last year?  
JASON KOKRAK:   Meant everything to me.   I kept my card.   That gave my enough money to keep my card.   I was well outside the FedExCup and well outside the Money List, so gave me enough money to keep my card.  
I got into a little bit of a slump my rookie year and then my sophomore year I played solid golf all year long.   Really never got out of hitting it well, hitting it where I wanted to.   You know, I would overhook it here or there, but overall I hit it really solid last year and really happy with where I finished making it to the BMW.  
So for so good.   Just continue to hit the ball well where and where I want to.   Now it's a little bit easier for me because I know the golf courses and I know where to hit it.   I don't have to overthink things anymore.  
   
 Q.   What have you done last couple weeks?   
JASON KOKRAK:   After the BMW I took two weeks off and really just relaxed.   Then I got after it.   That third week I started practicing quite a bit.   Didn't really play.   I did crack my drive that I been playing about four years now first swing of the final round of the BMW, so I was pretty upset for about four, five holes there.  
Cleveland has really done their homework and got me‑‑ it's a Srixon driver, but it's kind of the same look, the same head as the old 290 that I was playing.   So I am loving the driver, hitting the 3‑wood good, and putting well.   Titleist has got me a nice putter right now, and rolling the rock.   
   
 Q.   You play with Brooks Koepka tomorrow.   Do you know much about him?   
JASON KOKRAK:   You know, I don't know anything about him.   I saw him play at the PGA where he played pretty solid, I think.   I'm looking forward to it.   I don't know.   I still got 36 holes left.  
Couldn't ask for a better pairing for the first two days with Brendan Steele and Josh Teater, both good friends of mine.   Hopefully we can go out there and have some fun tomorrow.   I think we're going to go off two tees so threesomes, I believe.   Is Garrigus going to be in that group as well?   Yeah, so that means threesomes.  
I know Garrigus pretty well.   We have the same agent.   Should be a lot of fun.   I've heard absolutely nothing bad about Brooks.   Should be a good time.  
   
 Q.   You and Garrigus play and go after each other a little bit?  
JASON KOKRAK:   Oh, yeah, we'll needle each other a little bit.   
   
 Q.   Tee shots.   
JASON KOKRAK:   A little bit.   But when we play it's not a big deal.   Practice rounds are definitely different.   Last time we played at Honda maybe two years ago we definitely got after each other a little bit.   We'll have some fun tomorrow.   I'm looking forward to it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT