SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
March 29, 2013
Jason Kokrak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Good playing today.
JASON KOKRAK:   Yeah, I was pleased.   I got a little bit tight coming through the early front -- the early back-9s or early in my round.   You know, just one hiccup with the double bogey.   Other than that, started hitting stride on the back.   Hitting solid shots, hitting it in the fairways and hitting really good tee balls.   Putting myself in good positions is key for this golf course.   There's a lot of water out there, lot of wind.   Hitting it solid, there's something to be said about it.

Q.   Seems like a pretty good course for your game.
JASON KOKRAK:   There's not a whole lot of rough out here right now.   It's a fairly big golf course, but you got stay out of the fairway bunkers, you know.   You got to put it in the right spots and especially on the greens.   The greens are starting to speed up a little bit.   I think if they stay just like they are, should have a good opportunity for the first win.   There's a lot of golf to be played.   36 holes.

Q.   Looked like you did a lot of things consistently well today.   You guys are always looking for consistency, that rhythm out there, you feel good about that going into the weekend?
JASON KOKRAK:   I do.   I'm not really thinking about the golf swing, going out there and -- I have a good feel for where it's at.   It's just a nice fluid tempo.   That's basically all I'm thinking about.   Hitting targets and hit a natural draw, picking targets, letting it go.

Q.   Talk about the first win.   How much is the Masters on your mind this week?
JASON KOKRAK:   I don't think it's really on my mind too much.   Been struggling the last couple of weeks, so it hasn't -- I haven't really been thinking about it, but it's one of the bonuses of winning out here. 
But, you know, it might creep into my mind a little bit, but for right now, there's so much golf to be played that I'm going to concentrate on my own game tomorrow, the game plan that Aaron and I set out to go out there and try to have fun.   Hopefully, we'll get to play with my buddy, Wheatie.

Q.   I was going to ask you, are you guys buddies?
JASON KOKRAK:   We're good friends.   Great guy, and I look forward to playing with him.   D.A. gets into that group, it's either way, both of them are great guys, great individuals, and should be fun either way.

Q.   I take it you're looking at the scoreboard when you're out there.
JASON KOKRAK:   I saw with it Wheatie.   He's a buddy of mine.   I congratulated him on getting into the Monday qualifier.   Played well yesterday late in the round, so, you know, I'm happy for him.   I'm happy he's doing well.   Hopefully I can go out there and overtake the lead or -- hopefully I overtake him late Sunday, but hopefully go out there and have a lot of fun.

Q.   You got any good Wheatie stories?
JASON KOKRAK:   None that I can tell.




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT