THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 23, 2020
Jason Kokrak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Nice way to in finish.
 JASON KOKRAK:   I almost called "hoop" from the fairway.
 Q. You ever make a double eagle.
 JASON KOKRAK:   On a par 4 I've mid a hole-in-one but I've never made a 2 on a par 5.
 Q. Big eagle at the last, big approach shot into the last to probably get you to the BMW.  What are your thoughts on just the whole thing?
 JASON KOKRAK:   You know, I knew I needed a great day here on Sunday.  I let a lot slip through my fingers yesterday and the rest of the week, but I played a solid round of golf.  Gave myself a lot of opportunities.  Knew I would be somewhere in this position if I shot 5-, 6-, 7-under par.
 But all I can do is hope.  I was in this position last year at the BMW waiting to hopefully get into East Lake and ended up being number 30 but I've also been here in the Playoffs where I finished 71, and I was at the airport and didn't know if I was going to one place or the other.
 I've been on both sides of it but I've played some good golf and I hope to get in and continue the nice little run.
 Q. What's it like living life on the edge?
 JASON KOKRAK:   It's fun.  It's kind of a tournament within a tournament, so to speak.  You're always trying to win golf tournaments, play as well as you can, but knowing where you stand and knowing when you really need a birdie to show up with a shot like that, it's nice when you can do it under pressure.
 Q. Bogey-free 65.  What did you like about the round was going well?
 JASON KOKRAK:   I hit my irons better, way less movement from right-to-left.  Drew and I have been working on the range the last couple evenings after the round, working on a few things.  Drove the ball better on the weekend, but still a couple things to tighten up.
 I think the putter let me down this week, but been grinding pretty hard with it.  Once that thing heats up, we'll be pretty dangerous here in the near future.
 Q. Now that you've been able to work some of that out, you can probably get another four rounds to play.
 JASON KOKRAK:   Yeah, I would love to get a chance at that golf course.  I've heard it's a great venue, and I hope I can get in and do some more damage and be on that bubble again like I was last year.
 Q. Looking at your shirt, the William Murray Distillers, is that "the" Bill Murray?
 JASON KOKRAK:   That's "the" Bill Murray.  That's his logo and it's got William Murray right here.  It's fun to be a part of the group.  They have got some fun shirts.  I'm a big bourbon guy.  I'm sponsored by Buffalo Tracy.  Definitely going to have one once I get home later on tonight, I'll definitely partake in one and see if we get into BMW or not.
 Q. If you get up getting into the BMW in the Chicago area, Bill is from that area --
 JASON KOKRAK:   For sure.  My brother lives in Chicago, as well.  I've got a lot of family ties.  My uncle grew up in Chicago.  I would love to be back for the BMW and looking forward to it.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT