APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 11, 2016
Sara Errani
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. ERRANI/C. Suarez Navarro
6-3, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Good win.
SARA ERRANI: Thank you.
Q. Good way to start your season now with a win under your belt.  Talk through the match today.  How was it playing in those conditions?
SARA ERRANI: Yeah, was very cold outside.  Was really tough.  I mean, I don't know how many degrees was there, but was really tough for me, and for Carla also.
We had similar game, so we know each other and we play a lot of time.  I think I play a really good match today.
Q. The heat was obviously a factor in today's game.  Do you strategize in your game plan with the heat in it?
SARA ERRANI: No, not really.  Just try to recover good in between points, try to take my time between points, not go too much fast, even if you feel good in the moment.  Because you can play after the problem, and every change over try to ice, drink a lot, eat, and all these thing.
You have to be careful with these thing, try to do them all and try to be focus.
Q. Do you train in heat in the off-season?
SARA ERRANI: No, no.
Q. Do you train in Spain or Italy?
SARA ERRANI: In Spain.  So it's tough even like that.  You practice in cold condition and you come here.  The other day was good.  Even in Brisbane were not too hot.  Of course here can change very much.  We have to try to be ready even for these conditions.
Q. You play in hot weather a lot throughout the year.  What make the Australian heat different than, say, Miami or Indian Wells or Europe?
SARA ERRANI: Maybe here is more hot.  But I've played in Rio last year.  I think was the hottest place where I have ever played.  Was humid out.  Maybe more than today.  Really tough.
I like to play with hot condition, but to recover and this is not easy.  You can have like headache or these things so you have to try to watch out?
Q. When you play in hot weather and practice, can you get used to playing in hot weather?  So playing in hot weather today does, that help you in Melbourne, or would you rather not have to do that?
SARA ERRANI: I don't know.  I don't know.  I really don't know.  I don't know how to answer you.  I don't know if you get more tired or you -- I don't know.
Q. Get used to it?
SARA ERRANI: Get used to play with this hot.  I really don't know.  Can change a lot.
Q. Talk about your next match against Jelena.
SARA ERRANI: Yeah.
Q. Do you have a game plan going into this match already?
SARA ERRANI: Well, I didn't talk yet with my coach, but of course Jelena is a really tough player.  We play last year in my last tournament of the year, and was really tough match.
She doesn't miss not one balls, so will be tough for sure.
Q. Last week sounded like you were maybe a little bit frustrated with how the draw worked out in Brisbane.  I was wondering, you could explain what you were frustrated about?
SARA ERRANI: Yes.  I think the WTA have to find a way to find a solution for this.  I think we, all the player, need to have more respect for the tournaments and maybe the people who's coming and pay the ticket to come to see us.
Can happen.  I mean, can happen because we are player.  Can happen because I wake up this morning and I broke my legs or something.  Can happen.
But cannot be all the times, too many times, because for me it's like not too much.  So I think we are player.  All the player, we have maybe some problems sometimes.  It's not easy to play all the weeks.  We can have some problem.
But, I mean, don't have to be too many times.  I mean, so I think the WTA and we all have to find a solution for this.
Q. Does that ever go in your mind when you're about to play a tournament and you know maybe you're injured or you don't feel well; it's before the draw.  Does it come into your mind, Well, maybe I should pull out to help other players?
SARA ERRANI: I think can happen to everybody because we have many problem many weeks.  So I just watch out.  Maybe make it before the draw I think is the important thing.  Maybe WTA has to talk with the players to find the solution.
But many times I play with fever or with pain.  Many players do this.  So I think it's normal.  It's sports.  You never be 100%.  But I think it's important watch out to these things.
You can do it one day before maybe sometimes; maybe sometimes no.  But some players can do it before and it's fair for the people, the tournament, the other players also.  So I think it's important, one important thing for everybody.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT