ROGERS CUP
August 14, 2015
Sara Errani
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. ERRANI/l. Tsurenko
  6‑4, 6‑4

Q. How you doing, Sara. Congratulations on the singles today, and I just wanted to ask overall, when you were up 5‑0 and everything was working and she started hitting out and hitting aggressively, what did you tell yourself when you saw her come back to 5‑4, and what propelled you back to stay with your game and have you be able to take that set and end the match?
SARA ERRANI: Yeah, I was just thinking to try to be a little bit more aggressive, because in the first games she was really solid, but not hitting that strong, and from the 5‑0, she started to hit it really strong, the ball, making really good points. So just keep going, just tried to stay there, focus and tried to be a little bit more aggressive.

Q. Yeah, and with you getting this win in singles today and you playing Halep tomorrow, do you feel with how you've progressed this week that tomorrow's match is just despite you wanting to win that it's going to be a match where you don't feel any pressure, any expectations, you just want to just focus on just the point, and if you just play well and come up short, it's still going to be progress for you? How do you feel about that?
SARA ERRANI: Well, I hope tomorrow will be a good day. I know Halep is an unbelievable good player, very solid, hitting really strong. I will have to do a perfect match. So just try to be ready for that, and I know it will be difficult, but of course, yeah, a little bit less of pressure between me and her.

Q. Sara, what makes Simona a difficult player? What makes her so good?
SARA ERRANI: Well, she do everything good, and she don't miss many balls, and she's always aggressive. She has really good down the line and backhand, forehand. So she have all the shots. So it's difficult to close the points. She move also really well. So I'll try to be solid more than her, and that's it.

Q. With playing doubles this week and then also the singles, how are you feeling physically?
SARA ERRANI: Yeah, good. I mean it's difficult to play both. Of course, I'm a bit tired because after the match of yesterday, after the match of today, playing doubles after is not easy, but for the moment I'm good.

Q. And have you and your coach been continually working on your serve or is that, you know, you put a lot of work into that shot last year. Is that still the work in progress or have you guys figured that out?
SARA ERRANI: Yeah, of course. I know it's my worst shot. So I'm working on it all the days, every time. And it's not easy for me to improve. Maybe people think that I don't want to improve my serve, but it's not like that. I just try to improve, and of course, on matches it's more difficult with pressure, you know. Everybody is like looking at you and watching how you are serving, and it's not easy. Just try to work on it every day, try to improve day by day and know that it is not my best shot, but I can do other things better. 

Q. You say it's not your best shot, but you defend your serve very well. I mean from‑‑ once you get it in, being able to take care of the shot coming back to you and getting yourself in the rally, how do you do that? What is the key to protecting your serve?
SARA ERRANI: I don't know. I just try to read a little bit of the return of the opponent and maybe a little bit before, to go on the right side, but it's not always easy. I just try to improve that I do not lose too many points with the serve and try to go on the points on the baseline.

Q. And then I was talking to Garbin before the tournament. She said that she wanted to kind of ask you how to deal with the pressure of making a big Grand Slam final and difficult maintaining and still staying in the Top 10, which you were able to do after making the French. So I mean if you were to offer her advice on the key to not have a letdown, not to drop after that result, what's that advice?
SARA ERRANI: Well, I don't know the key. It's just I think that even if you do a final Grand Slam, it's very difficult to win matches in every tournament, not only the Grand Slams. In every tournament, there are a lot of good players, and if you know that and you are ready to fight, you are ready to work and to lose matches, even like that, but try to know, just I think the important thing is to know that it's not easy. It's not because you do a final and then after that you have to win all the matches. It's not like that. You can lose matches like before and try to do your best and that's it.

Q. I know you guys came up short today in doubles, but how much fun it is to play with Flavia and how much of a fun personality she is overall with you and knowing her for so many years? I mean how fun is it to play like that?
SARA ERRANI: Yeah. I think the important thing is always like that. We have fun, so this is the important thing. We know each other from a long time and many years. So we feel comfortable on the court together, and this is good.

Q. And do you guys, like this week or whenever have any jokes during the match or like a fun moment or anything?
SARA ERRANI: Yeah, sometimes it can happen. Yes. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT