U.S. OPEN
September 2, 2014
Sara Errani
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  C. WOZNIACKI/A. Errani6-0, 6-1THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.Q. Obviously a tough night.  What was she doing out there that didn't you let you get your way?SARA ERRANI: Yeah, I think was much stronger than me physically.  I think was the most important difference today. She doesn't let you play.  She never miss.  Of course was feeling quite good for shots, but physically not that good.  She was much better than me about that.Q. Do you think you were tired from the long matches in the tournament?  What do you think it was?SARA ERRANI: I don't know.  Of course a bit of that.  Of course she's stronger than me.  I have to work more on that. She's very good.  She don't miss a ball.  Every point long points, make me feel worse physically.  So was important thing.  I tried to change my game in the second to be much more aggressive.  Tried to go more on the net, because on the baseline was she was making me died. Tried to be aggressive on the net.  I was trying, but is difficult.Q. She plays a very defense-oriented game.  Her defense is her biggest strength.  Do you imagine a player can win a Grand Slam with defense?SARA ERRANI: Of course.  I don't think she's only defending.  She's good.  She's very intelligent on the court.  She's very ordinata - I don't know in English how to say. Yeah.  I don't think -- she's pushing the ball all the time but with intelligence, or I think so.  Yes, she can win.  She's playing I think very good.Q. But in general do you think a player has to be aggressive to win a Grand Slam?  Because we haven't seen...SARA ERRANI: For me she's aggressive.  I mean, she don't miss.  She wait a good ball.  She's good defending and is not only playing aggressive.  For me is not only make winners of the point. I mean, if you push the ball long points all the time but without missing, I mean, she -- for me, she's not only defending for me.  She's good.Q. The way she's been playing here, do you think this is about as good as you've seen her play lately?SARA ERRANI: Yes.  Yeah.Q. What was your plan going into this match?SARA ERRANI: Yeah.  My plan was to be aggressive.  I made a mistake at the beginning.  Of course when you start you're a bit nervous.  I don't want to make mistakes. So I was just looking to find the ball good and move, but maybe in the first set three games she made me be physically very tired because we had long points.  I had to be more aggressive.  I tried in the second, but not that good. Of course when you are tired it's tough to be very - I don't know in English - preciso on what you are doing.  I want to put the ball on one point, and when you are tired it's more difficult to do. I was trying that, but she was playing very good, very solid.Q. How about the quality of her returns, her returning tonight?SARA ERRANI: Good.  I mean, for me she served good today and in the baseline good.  I mean, if she play like that she don't need to, how I can say, to make winner on the return.  She can play long points.  She's very good physically. Point by point she find the feeling, and without missing.  She's not in a hurry to make winner. So I think it's a good thing.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT