TEB BNP PARIBAS WTA CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 25, 2013
Sara Errani
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. ERRANI/J. Jankovic
  6‑4, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   So you get to finish this part of your season not only the Fed Cup part but the win in singles.   Not many players get to finish with a win. 
SARA ERRANI:   Is nice.   Of course is good.   I'm very happy to have won.   I think Jelena is incredible player, so she will be in the semifinal, and I was just trying to fight the best as I can. 
We are in a Masters, so it's every match important for me, even if I already out.   I think I played good.   I'm happy with that.

Q.   You have made it here two years in a row now.   A lot of players have said it's harder to stay at the top than to get there for the first time.   How difficult is it going to be to keep getting back here year after year?
SARA ERRANI:   Very difficult.   I know to be here is very difficult.   I know it, but I'm ready to work, to fight every match, and doesn't matter how it be.   I hope it will be good.   But important for me always I say to fight and try my best.   They are all so good opponent.   We will see. 
I'm very happy to make these two Masters in these two years.   I know it will be difficult, but I'm ready to continue.   I hope to continue.

Q.   Tomorrow you will start in doubles tournament.   You will face with Vesnina and Makarova.   You know these girls very well.   What do you expect from this match?
SARA ERRANI:   Well, we are in semifinal Masters.   I expect to go there and fight and try my best like always. 
I like the court, and it will be difficult.   We lost against them in Paris.   They are a very good team, but we are ready to play.

Q.   I know you talked at the US Open about your confidence being lower and stuff.   Do these kind of wins, getting a win at a Masters event and holding your own here, are you feeling better now than you were two months ago?
SARA ERRANI:   Yes, of course, but not only today of win.   Also yesterday and before yesterday, the other matches. 
I say the other day that in US Open was a bit physically because I was a bit tired, so I was making my head a bit worse.
Also from Japan and Tokyo, I start to feel much better.   Just good on the court.   Of course, there are difficult matches, but I'm happy from there how I stay on the court and how I play. 

Q.   Tomorrow playing with Roberta, do you think it will provide an extra motivation to you?
SARA ERRANI:   Yeah, I'm motivate for tomorrow.   We want to try to make better than last year.   We lost in the semifinal.   We want to play and we are very motivated. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT