TEB BNP PARIBAS WTA CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 22, 2013
Sara Errani
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 V. AZARENKA/S. Errani
  7‑6, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You had a medical timeout in the second set.   Do you think that affects your performance towards the end of the match?   And now is it going to affect your next two matches, do you think?  
SARA ERRANI:   Yeah, in the tiebreaker first set I felt, on the serve, a pain on my calf.   So from there I was worried because I was feeling pain.   Then I call the physio, and she make a bit of treatment.   
Then four games on, I don't know when it was, when I make the smash, I felt also cramp after, so I don't know.   I am just doing treatment with the physio and see how it goes.   I hope good.  
   
 Q.   Have you felt anything wrong before today, or was this something that occurred during the match?  
SARA ERRANI:   No, nothing, so it's strange.   I don't know.   Just pain.   Can happen sometimes.   We had first set very tough, very long.   I was running a lot, but I was feeling good.   
And on the serve, maybe also for the nerves, for the tension, and for to run and everything, I felt at a point pain, and that's it.   So I was worried, and after I was trying, you know, I tried to play without running too much a bit more hard, but I know it was not 100%.  
   
 Q.   With the Fed Cup final coming up, is there any concern about how well you're doing physically and whether you need to withdraw from this tournament?  
SARA ERRANI:   I don't know.   Before the Fed Cup I have here another two matches to play, and doubles, so I hope to recover.   We are trying with the physio to do everything that's good to make it better, but you never know.   Tomorrow I will try and I will see.   Maybe going good; maybe bad.   I don't know.  
   
 Q.   With the Fed Cup final, there have been a lot of reports out of Russia that a lot of the Russian players don't want to play and they are choosing to play in Sofia next week instead of Fed Cup, and maybe there will be no Russians in the top 100 even at the Fed Cup final.   Just wondering what you think of that, what it says about Fed Cup right now.   
SARA ERRANI:   Well, the problem is that in the same week there are two important events, so I don't know.   Everybody is free to decide what to play, Fed Cup or Sofia, but the problem is that they are in the same week.   So somebody's choosing one thing; somebody the other.  
   
 Q.   On that topic, do you think that Fed Cup should have points or prize money?  
SARA ERRANI:   Well, maybe, yes.   But maybe the more important thing is to not have in the same week the Sofia and the Fed Cup, because if not, is difficult for everybody because it's two very important tournaments.  
The first thing I think is to do that.   Then we can talk to put points on Fed Cup.  
   
 Q.   You're going to play Li Na tomorrow.   Very different player from Azarenka.   Do you think you're going to come up with some new strategy to play, or you're going to stick to the strategy you played today against Azarenka?  
SARA ERRANI:   Well, it will be another tough match.   Li Na is playing unbelievable, so will be tough.   I didn't speak already with my team about tomorrow, so we will see how to put the game on tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Talking about today's match, before you were injured you had the lead in the first set.   Then unfortunately it slipped away.   Can you talk about what changed in that first set from 5‑2?   Was Vika doing something better?   Was it you?  
SARA ERRANI:   Yeah, the more important thing was that we changed ball.   The ball after one game was like cats, so was a bit heavy and I was feeling more comfortable.  
Then on 5‑2, we changed, and then she start to play also better, more aggressive.   But of course very important thing was the change of ball.   When they are new, it's much faster, and then I had two bad games.   Then I had my chances on 5‑4.   I think I played better that game, but Vika also play better.   So I was there, but...   
   
 Q.   What do you think of the speed and the quality of the court?  
SARA ERRANI:   I like the court very much.   It's a good court for me.   I mean, it's not too fast.   I like the balls, also.   So for me I like very much this court.  
   
 Q.   There has been a lot of talk about how hard courts have gotten slower over the past few years.   Have you noticed that even while you're playing?   You think it's allowed you to play better on hard courts maybe than you would have...   
SARA ERRANI:   I think that the courts in the last year are faster than two or three years ago.   Maybe before they were faster, then they make it slower.   But a lot of tournaments I felt the court a bit faster than last year.   
In the USA tour I thought the court was a bit faster.   Here is the same than last year, and, well, depending.   There are tournaments in Tokyo, the court is very fast.   So depending the sites, there are different type of courts.   
   
 Q.   You looked really fresh in this match.   Can you say this is your best match for a long time?   You looked very fresh in your match?   
SARA ERRANI:   Fresh maybe not too much, because in the tiebreak I start to feel pain.   I don't know.  
   
 Q.   In the first set before the pain, do you think it was your best match for a long time?  
SARA ERRANI:   I don't know.   I was playing very good.   This is what I know.   
I don't know.   My best match?   I had other matches very good this year, Paris and before, and I cannot say my best match, but for sure I was playing good.  
   
 Q.   Li Na plays very aggressive style of game.   She tries to dictate the first points she have a chance to attack.   So what do you think gonna be to key points for you to stay in the match and try to win in your way?  
SARA ERRANI:   I'm not telling to you what I will do tomorrow.   I mean, you will see.   I cannot tell you.   I'm not going to say how I am going to play.  
Even like that, I didn't speak with my team.   We didn't decide.   We didn't think about the tactic to use tomorrow.   So I have to speak before with them, and tomorrow you will see.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT