ROGERS CUP WOMEN
August 8, 2013
Sara Errani
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. ERRANI/A. Cornet
  7‑5, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Extremely heated match out there.   Can I ask you about some of the exchanges, verbal exchanges, what they were involving?  
SARA ERRANI:   What?   The what?   
   
 Q.   Were there some verbal exchanges between the two of you during the match?   Was that just heat‑of‑the‑moment battles?  
SARA ERRANI:   No, it was just funny thing.   I just say to her why she was saying "Vamos" and not "Allez."   Normally she say "Allez," so I thought, why you say "Vamos"?   
Nothing.   Was very hot today.   Was very tough match.   The second I was 5‑1 up, and she start to play unbelievable.   She start to make a lot of winners.   She had also set point in the 6‑5, so was very near match.  
Of course I'm very happy to won.  
   
 Q.   Very feisty player.   Is that a characteristic that the French players carry?   Do they have a very feisty nature to you?  
SARA ERRANI:   I don't know what the word is.   
   
 Q.   Extremely vocal on the court.   
SARA ERRANI:   What is vocal?   
   
 Q.   Your competitor today, she was shouting, yelling, a lot of intensity.   
SARA ERRANI:   Well, I don't know.   I don't think is good thing for our sport.   I think is better to just compete, try your best and let's see.   
Sometimes she do this, and I just want to try to stay focus and not thinking about her.   But sometimes it's tough because is really near match, a lot of tension.   
So sometimes you say, Why you are saying that you have cramps and after you don't have?   I mean, why are you doing this?   I don't understand what you are doing.  
But everybody is free to do what they want.   She can do what she wants.   I just have to try to keep going for my route and think about my match and that's it.  
   
 Q.   When you try and stay focused throughout the match, what are the sort of things that you're thinking about?  
SARA ERRANI:   Yeah, just try to think what I have to do.   The times that also my coach has come in and coach on court and is trying to say‑‑ of course every match is different.   Today was a bit more to try when I can't be aggressive, and if not, play long with topspin, with my forehand, try to take my forehand.  
Of course, you try to say all the times, Come on, come on, and stay there on the point.  
Is tough.   We have played today a really long match.   It was really hot.   All the points are long.   Sometimes it's tough.   You are tired physically, but is very important for me, for my game, to stay there on the point and try to keep going.  
   
 Q.   When you call your coach on court, can you talk about that?   How does it boost you?   
SARA ERRANI:   Yeah, I think it helped me a lot.   When you are from outside you can see things that inside you don't see.  
So it's very helpful for me to have him and he's helping me a lot, and he tell me what to do and how to play in my points.   So it's very important for me.   
   
 Q.   You have had a big breakthrough the past year or so, 2012, and you have credited that in part to a new racquet.   How has that helped you?  
SARA ERRANI:   Yeah, it helped me a lot.   The racquet is a bit more longer, so I had more power on the court.   From there I start to play better, feel myself much better on the court.   
I have more power.   Against really good players of now is very important and I think helped me a lot.   And also, when you start to feel better you have more confidence or you win more matches.   It's like it's going good, all the things are going good, and you stay there and you fight every point.  
I think it's helped me a lot, this new racquet.  
   
 Q.   You mentioned power.   A lot of the top players today are very tall.   It's a very power‑oriented game.   What are the ways, as a shorter player, that you need to play to compete with them?  
SARA ERRANI:   Yeah, sometimes even if you play your best tennis is tough, because everybody is playing really good and they are much more power than you.   Serena and others are very strong girls, so you have to try to be perfect.   
Also physically it's very important for me to be good physically.   I need to run a lot every time, so I have to recover.   I think also for your mind, be good physically, it's very important.  
You have also to try to think a bit more on how to make the point, how to play tactically, so it's very important, everything.   
   
 Q.   Now that you have made a big jump in the rankings, do you have a particular goal in mind?  
SARA ERRANI:   No, I have never had a really goal on my mind.   My goal, I always say this, is to go on the court and try my best.   If you go there and you fight the best as you can and you give everything on the court, after, anything is good.   If you do that, then maybe you have more results than if you are not doing that.  
So my goal is that, to go there and fight and try my best.   And sometimes you win; sometimes you lose.   This is tennis.  
But for me, the important thing is to go there and try my best always.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT