DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS WOMEN
February 23, 2013
Sara Errani
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







P. KVITOVA/S. Errani
  6‑2, 1‑6, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Do you think that's a match that you could have won because you played brilliantly in the second set?
SARA ERRANI:   I don't know.   I just know that I lost.   I think I had my chances on the third set Love‑40 or many games with a chance to win the game, and I lost them.
Well done for her side; bad luck for my side.   That's it.   I just try to change a bit my game to win this match.   I try everything to win but couldn't be.

Q.   Tough start for you.   How did you manage to turn it around? 
SARA ERRANI:   Yeah, very tough.   She was hitting so strong, making winners everywhere. 
I had to change something to try to win the match, and I did on the second set, tried to go more on the net, be more aggressive.   And that's it.   On the baseline she was playing unbelievable, so it was very tough.   Just to try to make her pressure somewhere.   That's it. 

Q.   What made the difference in the third set?
SARA ERRANI:   I don't know.   I had my chances.   I say maybe she was expecting me more coming to the net so she was a bit more ready to make the passing.   In the second set she missed more balls maybe because she didn't know good how to, what to do, and that's it.
But I had many chances on the third, many games with a point to win the game and I lost them.
I don't know.   Maybe if I am going not 4‑1 or 2‑All like that, maybe she has also a bit more pressure to close the match, but was 4‑1, 5‑1, and then was very easy for her.   So nothing.

Q.   What positives can you take away from the whole week?
SARA ERRANI:   Well, I think it's always great to do a final.   Also, on this court, this is not my favorite court.   It is very fast for me, so is very tough for me to play on this court. 
But I think I have been there.   I'm fighting every match a lot.   For sure, is very good tournament for me.   I did final.   I didn't expect to maybe not win one round.   So was very good week for me.

Q.   What do you feel about the tournament overall, the surroundings, the court, the hotel, Dubai?
SARA ERRANI:   Unbelievable.   I mean, they made very good improve ‑‑╩I have been here two years ago, and in two years they change a lot of things.   It's amazing what they did. 
I think it's one of the best tournaments of the year.   You have the hotel here.   Everything is very good.   The organization, everybody.   So it's unbelievable, good tournament.

Q.   How difficult is it to play an opponent who is obviously so much taller than you?
SARA ERRANI:   Yeah, the problem is not that she's tall; the problem is that she serve very good.   She hit so strong.   She's very big to cover the court.   It's tough to move her. 
It's hard to play because her ball is very flat.   I don't have time to do the points that I want to do, to play the game that I want to play.
It's tough.   All the points are very short, and it's very tough.

Q.   Do you think the way she's playing ‑‑╩she says that she's getting back to her previous form.   From the other side of the net, do you feel her level is getting as high as... 
SARA ERRANI:   Yes.   I think so, yes. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT