DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS WOMEN
February 22, 2013
Sara Errani
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. ERRANI/R. Vinci
  6‑3, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   How does it feel to be in the final?  
SARA ERRANI:   Well, of course it's nice to be in the final of the tournament.   It's always a good thing.   When you start the tournament, you hope to arrive there.   So it's good.  
   
 Q.   Why do you think you won today?  
SARA ERRANI:   I don't know why.   I just tried to play my game, tried to be more solid as I can.  
Of course it's very tough because we know each other very well, so it is like to play, to think what she cannot think that I'm going to do.  
So it's not only a match that I just see normally and say, Try to play your game.   It's tension.   It's tough.   And it's tough to play against one person and know what you're going to do in every shot.   So sometimes it's difficult.  
   
 Q.   Do you have an explanation for the fact that you handle it much better than her, these kind of circumstances?  
SARA ERRANI:   No, I don't.   
   
 Q.   Maybe your experience in the big stages?   Final of a Grand Slam?   Maybe you're mentally much better in these conditions?  
SARA ERRANI:   I swear, I really don't know why.   I don't know.   
I just try to go there and not think too much about who is, about what it is, the person that I'm looking.   Try to think maybe that is, I don't know ‑‑I don't know how to explain, because it's difficult to explain also.   I don't know why.  
   
 Q.   This is the first time this year you and both Roberta were both in a tournament and don't play doubles.   You are both in the semifinals singles.   Do you think about maybe we should play less doubles in the future?  
SARA ERRANI:   No, I think that we are in semis both because we have played also many doubles.   I don't think like you think.   I think the other way.   I think that to play doubles we take a lot of confidence both, so that thing help us in the single game.   Maybe if we didn't play too many doubles maybe we are not here in the semis.  
So you can think in both sides.   I think doubles help us a lot.   Of course sometimes is tough physically, but like that we decide here to not play.   But I don't think we are in semis because we didn't play the doubles.   I think it's because doubles also help us a lot.  
   
 Q.   And you can also play beautiful backhand slice.   Do you think it's one of the reasons you guys do so good not only in doubles now in singles because most of the girls don't like dealing with that?  
SARA ERRANI:   I don't know.   I think that maybe Vinci learn to me how to play the backhand slice.   I play so many times with her.   
But I don't know.   I don't know.   
   
 Q.   I have seen your schedule.   You're going to play 14 weeks in a row.   
SARA ERRANI:   How many?   
   
 Q.   14.   
SARA ERRANI:   Why?   
   
 Q.   No, you.   You're going to play 14.   I have seen your schedule.   It's a lot.   
SARA ERRANI:   Yeah, I know it's a lot.   But we make the schedule like that.   For the moment it's okay for me.   Also, you have to think that in Indian Wells and Miami is two tournaments in four weeks, so of course is different ways.   I don't think that normally tournament like this Indian Wells, maybe I start to play on Saturday, so it's one week of rest.  
Of course I know that is many, many weeks, but you have to decide the tournament in the beginning of the year.   You cannot decide now.  
Maybe I do three first rounds in a row, and now I want to play and maybe I cannot play because I'm not signing the tournaments.  
So is not easy because you have to do it six weeks before.   So you don't know what happen in six weeks, but I think that for the moment I play many tournaments but I'm going good.   Also, you have to think if you're playing good it's good to play and not stop.  
But of course you have to think also about your physical.   For the moment I'm good, really.   I'm going for sure to go to after here to Acapulco.   Also nice place.   I always like.   It's on clay.   So it's a bit different.  
And after, for sure, I will have some days to rest after that before Indian Wells.   And also you have many days to play after also in Miami.   So I think that is a place to recharge the body.  
   
 Q.   You come from a country that plays tennis primarily on clay.   You're a French Open finalist on clay.   Do you think going on from what Rafa has been...   
SARA ERRANI:   Sorry?   
   
 Q.   Do you agree with Rafa Nadal in that there are too many tournaments on hard court and not enough on clay?  
SARA ERRANI:   If he's saying in the men's and think that in men's there are a lot more of clay tournaments that in the girls.   So of course it's tough to play.   I think that sometimes he has the reason, because on hard court you can be more injury on your knee, on your toes.   It's tough physically.   And on clay maybe is a bit different.   Also on grass is less than the other, is very hard.   
I don't know.   I know that there aren't many tournaments on clay.   I agree with him.   But I don't think to change it.   I really think just to play.   I don't think about that thing.   
Maybe I'm not doing good thinking about that, but I just think about playing, not if there are good or bad that there are more or less tournaments on clay.   I just think to play.  
   
 Q.   Does your body feel more painful playing on hard court than it does on clay?  
SARA ERRANI:   Yes, for sure.   Yes.   On the hard court you can have more injury, more because when you push on the floor is more‑‑ the impact is very strong.   So you can ‑‑I feel that.   When I play on clay, you can play also three hours, and the day after I'm better than when I play on hard court.   That, for sure.  
   
 Q.   You play either Petra or Caroline in the final.   Can you just talk about each matchup and how you'd approach it.   
SARA ERRANI:   Well, both are very good players.   With Caroline, I didn't play against her‑‑ I play against her in Portoroz many years ago.   And in Beijing, also.   And is very solid player.   She's playing very good.   I saw her yesterday.   She's very solid.   
Kvitova, she play really good, very strong, very hard the ball, left‑hand, taller, so much power.  
Both are very tough matches.   
   
 Q.   Have you thought what a final appearance here does for your world ranking or your confidence going forward?   Li Na is injured.   Angelique Kerber is off form for the moment.   How could it affect you in the world rankings?  
SARA ERRANI:   Well, I'm not moving nothing with this tournament, so even if I won the tournament.   So in the position that I am is very tough to, how you say, to improve your ranking.   There are so many points.  
I really don't think about that.   Of course, I like to watch the ranking.   I like to be good ranking.   But for the moment, I just have to think to play the matches, to improve my game, also practicing, and everything.   And the results will come.   
If you think about that, you are not improving.   You have to improve working on the court.   
   
 Q.   Is there anything specific you feel you need to improve to try and win the final tomorrow?   Anything in your game that you feel you want to work on?  
SARA ERRANI:   Well, I don't have time to work on tonight.   I'm going to sleep.   I'm not going to practice now.  
What I know, I know.   Like when you go to make an exam in the school, the day after you have to learn and the days before, of course.   
No, I just want to try to be as better as I can physically, make treatment and everything, and try to play my game.  
   
 Q.   On the day when you play with your best friend, do you still have breakfast and dinner together?  
SARA ERRANI:   When?   
   
 Q.   Today, like today.   
SARA ERRANI:   Yeah, yeah, of course.   Is a friend.   We always say together we feel good together and day by day.  
So this one match doesn't change the friendship that there is.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT