DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS WOMEN
February 21, 2013
Sara Errani
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. ERRANI/N. Petrova
  6‑4, 0‑6, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   How did you do it?   It's just an amazing match.   You just pulled it out in the end.   
SARA ERRANI:   Well, it was very tough.   I really don't know if she was serving good with the back, and I was very tired, and I think also her was very tired.   
I tried to recharge a bit of battery, and after the second set because was 6‑Love, but the first two games, I don't know how long have been.   It was very long even if it was 6‑Love.   
In the third I tried just to be more aggressive, more concentrate, and tried to show her that I was not tired.  
   
 Q.   Mentally it must be very difficult after you lose the second set 6‑Love.   You know, the feeling is the momentum is now in her corner.   I mean, how did you claw back from that?  
SARA ERRANI:   Well, it's tough in any case.   I just think I lost the set 6‑Love or 7‑6, maybe I can‑‑ if 6‑Love, I can do better for sure than the second.   So this is a positive thing.  
No, just try to recover, try to be   aggressive, be positive face and these things.  
   
 Q.   How is the thigh?   It's heavily strapped.   I see Nadia got treatment, as well.   
SARA ERRANI:   Yeah, it's tough to play every week, so sometimes happen.   I played many matches, singles and doubles all in a row, is not a Grand Slam that you have one day in between.   I won yesterday night very late.   I sleep at 3:00 in the morning, so I was very tough to recover for today.  
Then was hot also today.   So just try to keep staying on the court as better as I can, but for sure was very tough.  
   
 Q.   You will probably be playing in the afternoon tomorrow against your doubles partner?  
SARA ERRANI:   Yeah, tomorrow.   I don't know what time, but in the afternoon for sure.  
   
 Q.   How do you look forward to that?  
SARA ERRANI:   Well, we know each other very well.   The good thing is that one Italian will be in the final, for sure, so this is a good thing.   (Smiling.)  
Just another match.   Try to not think that it is against her, and that's it.  
   
 Q.   She said it would be difficult to play against you mentally because she regards you as "her sister."   How do you see it?   How do you see that?   Will you find it difficult to play her?  
SARA ERRANI:   Of course, of course is very tough.   Normally she's with me on my side of the net and not on the other one, so see her on the other side is tough because one of us will lose.   
So for that it will be tough.   I don't know.   It's just ‑‑ I think it's just tennis match.   Of course sometimes you win, sometimes you lose, and that's it.   You try to play the best as you can on the court, and that's it.  
   
 Q.   Have you played each other before?  
SARA ERRANI:   Yes, many times.   Last one in US Open.  
   
 Q.   When it's like that, do you warm up with her in the morning, or do you prefer to separate for...   
SARA ERRANI:   No, normally we don't warm up together here.   We didn't warm up one day here.   So normally we will when we play doubles.  
   
 Q.   Presumably though if you were to lose you'd be happy for Roberta and vice versa, so it's nice?  
SARA ERRANI:   Yeah, for sure, for sure.   It's tough also for that because you're upset that you lose, but for sure you're happy that she won if it happens.   
I mean, the good thing is one of both would be in the finals.   So it's a very good thing.   But for sure it's tough to play against one very good friend of you.   
   
 Q.   You don't stop talking to each other for the next...   
SARA ERRANI:   No, no, no.  
   
 Q.   What are you like together as personalities?   What's she like?   What are you like as a pairing?   What's she like as a person, Roberta?   
SARA ERRANI:   I don't...   
   
 Q.   What's Roberta like as a person compared to you?   What's she like as a personality, Roberta?   
SARA ERRANI:   Of me?   
   
 Q.   No.   What's Roberta like as a person?   What's she like?   
SARA ERRANI:   How she is?   
   
 Q.   Yes, how she is.   What's she like compared to you maybe or compared to other Italian players?   What's she like?  
SARA ERRANI:   I don't know.   She's an amazing person outside the court.   Outside the court, she's a very good person and she try to help you always when she can.   
So it's ‑‑I don't know.   It's really for me, like a sister, how she say.   We know each other very well.   We stay maybe together in the year, I don't know, 300 days in a year.   So it's ‑‑we know each other.   We have many moments, many good moments together.  
So this also make you more friend.   That's it.   
   
 Q.   Can we call you the "Erra‑Vinci Sisters" for this week?  
SARA ERRANI:   Well, always.   It's always when we play doubles together...   It's ‑‑ I don't know.   
   
 Q.   Looking ahead, how big is it for the both of you, you know, to be doubles players but to have got, you know, to the semifinals and potentially the final?   How big is it for the both of you to be here?  
SARA ERRANI:   Yeah, it's big.   But also in US Open maybe was bigger in the quarterfinal.   
So for sure is big tournament, and for sure it's very good for us to be in the semifinal here.   One would be in the final.   So amazing.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT