CHINA OPEN
September 29, 2012
Sara Errani
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions in Chinese, please. 

Q.   So what is your expectation and largest goal for this match? 
SARA ERRANI:   Of course it's important tournament for me.   I will try my best.   It's not easy in the end of the year, but of course I'm ready to play. 

Q.   Do you think your personal fitness is really important for a tennis player?   You are slim and actually not tall.   Do you think the figure is really important for a tennis player?
SARA ERRANI:   Yes, of course is very important.   You have to be good.   There are many good players, good physical player, everything.   So I have to try to find your way to play as better as you can. 
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please. 

Q.   You're coming off of a really great year and have had a huge surge in rankings going from the 40s up to I believe No. 7 it is right now.   How have you found such success this year?
SARA ERRANI:   Well, you ask me many times, but the big change maybe the beginning of the year was the racquet.   From that I start to feel better and better playing, more confidence and everything. 
I think I play incredible year, many matches, singles and doubles.   Of course I'm very happy with that, and I try to continue like this.   It's not easy, of course.   Is tough, but I'm trying to continue.

Q.   This year it is very likely to play the Championships end of the year for the first time for you.   How is your feeling and how you prepare for it?
SARA ERRANI:   For to prepare what? 

Q.   The Championships of the year. 
THE MODERATOR:   Istanbul. 
SARA ERRANI:   I'm not in 100%.   I mean, doubles, of course, and I hope to get in on singles.   But I have to continue play to try to keep playing good.   It's amazing for me to get in, I hope, and I'm happy to play.     I want to play, and I will try everything to arrive there. 

Q.   You are very good doubles player, as always.   This year you have breakthrough in single matches.   Will you consider to pay more attention in the singles matches in the future?   How will you balance the match between singles and doubles? 
SARA ERRANI:   For me, singles is very important, but it's important also doubles.   Has been my first priority always singles, but for me, doubles is very important. 
I like to play.   I have many fun playing doubles.   I like it.   I think it help me also my singles game.   I want to continue like this.

Q.   Do you feel you're getting close to winning a Grand Slam?
SARA ERRANI:   To win a Grand Slam? 

Q.   To winning a Grand Slam.   You had your first final this year. 
SARA ERRANI:   Of course to win a Grand Slam, you have to pass through to arrive on quarter and semis.   It's good.   I don't feel ‑‑I don't know.   Maybe I can.   I don't know. 
I just like to play match by match, and let's see.   I don't like to think I will won.   I like to live like day by day and play all the matches.   To arrive there, you have to win many matches.   You have to be very good. 
I've made a final this year, a semifinal, a quarter.   I'm near, but of course to win a Grand Slam you have to be very good.

Q.   Is there a big difference in your preparation for singles versus preparing for doubles matches?
SARA ERRANI:   No, of course I don't have time to ‑‑I just prepare for singles, and of course after you play, you play doubles.   Me and Vinci, we try to speak more than prepare on the court.   We try to speak to find the solution and to play better and better playing matches, not on practice. 

Q.   Speaking of Vinci, could you tell me about your friendship, relationship with her?   Do you think that's one of the reasons that you two do so well on the doubles court?
SARA ERRANI:   Yes, of course.   We know each other very well from many years.   We are playing, I don't know, three or four years together, and I think we play very good also because we know each other. 
In the court, we know how to help the other, and we know how to ‑‑ to help the other.   Of course we are playing also very good on singles both.
So we're playing, two good players, we are good together. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT