TEB BNP PARIBAS WTA CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 22, 2012
Sara Errani
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Sara.   
   
 Q.   How are you feeling?   I know there was some concern with injury coming into this tournament.   You said you obviously really wanted to play here.   
SARA ERRANI:   I've stop the time that I had to stop and I just recover.   I'm practicing normally, so it's okay.   
   
 Q.   How does it feel to be here, and what would you like to say about the tournament and also the home city?   
SARA ERRANI:   Yes, of course is good last tournament.   I've played a great year and I'm very happy to be here.   A Master is a Master, and everybody know how it is.   I'm with another seven best players of the year, so I'm very happy to be in here.   
I want to enjoy it.   
   
 Q.   The trend in tennis is for players to be bigger and bigger.   Here you are a relatively small player in the field.   What does a player like you have to develop in your game to be able to stay in it with the bigger girls, do you think?  
SARA ERRANI:   Well, I try to put the game where I want to play tactically.     Also I want to find the solution, try to find the best place to play to won against these people.  
Of course she very strong and I have to be also good physically, to move good, and also to think good.   
So all these things.  
   
 Q.   Was there something specifically that you have worked on perhaps last year or said, If I don't do this in 2012, I'm never going to be a top‑10 player?   Was there something specifically in your game that you worked on?   
SARA ERRANI:   No, I've been working a lot on all the things, not just on one.   Just try to play better and better every day.   Just from when I was young I just try to work a lot every day.   Every day working good, and I think the results are coming.  
Maybe not the first day.   You have to work a lot and to think that you can arrive.   I didn't expect to be of course top 10 this year and to be in here.   
But I've played good matches, good tournament all the year, and I am happy to be here.   
   
 Q.   If you think about where you were last time this year and then take it to today, are you surprised at your progress and how good you've become?  
SARA ERRANI:   Yes, of course I'm surprise.   I finish last year 40‑something, so of course it's an incredible year.   I made final in in Paris, semis in US Open, quarters Australian Open, and I won four tournaments.   
I mean, for me, it's an amazing year.   I didn't expect to be in here, but I'm here and I want to give my best to enjoy, but also to try to do my best and to improve.  
   
 Q.   Was there a point in your career where you doubted that the top 10 was something you could achieve?  
SARA ERRANI:   Of course it's a dream for you.   You work every day to be in here, to be where I am now, so I want just to keep going, keep improving, and maybe doing better also.  
So I try to.   
   
 Q.   You've had   great year in singles and in doubles.   When you look back at this year, what's your favorite memory?   Winning doubles in slams with Roberta or the singles success?   
SARA ERRANI:   There are too many to say just one.   There are Grand Slam Paris in single final and in double one, and US Open win the double.   There are too many to say one.   (Smiling.)  
I have so many good memories from this year.   
   
 Q.   What would you like to say about Istanbul, the city?   Are you excited to be in this city?   Do you have a message for Turkish supporters who are going to come and see your games?  
SARA ERRANI:   I didn't see too much from Istanbul.   I'm here from three days, but I will be here many more. I hope to have the time to go to see something.   I don't know very good Istanbul.   Many people told me it's an incredible city, and I want to go see some things.   
But I cannot tell you now.   (Smiling.)  
   
 Q.   Do you have a message?  
SARA ERRANI:   A message?   I hope that many people will coming to see tennis.   Of course I think it's a very good sport, and I hope many people is coming.  
   
 Q.   Now that you're a top player you're getting more and more expectations and there is a lot of interest around you.   I would like to know how you deal with it and if you have some new contracts and stuff like that.   
SARA ERRANI:   Of course it's a bit different.   You have different things to do.   But I just try to focus on my work.   That is the important thing for me.   I have to be good to play good.   I have to focus on practicing, focus on matches.  
So of course there are many things outside the tennis, but I try to find good people that stay near me to make me the solution of all these things and try to just have my time and focus on tennis.   
   
 Q.   I put this question, because Li Na in the past said that the distraction off court   took a lot of time from practicing.   Same with Wozniacki last week.   Do you have some strategy to avoid that kind of letdown?  
SARA ERRANI:   I know it's like that.   You have many more things to do.   You have to know it.   I don't have a solution.   I just try to make it as good as I can.   I try to find good people to stay near me to also tell me where I have to go, what I have to do.  
So this is good for me.   I trust on my team, and it's helping me a lot.   I don't have a solution, but I'm trying to do it as best as I can.  
   
 Q.   Who do you think has been the player of the year this year?   
SARA ERRANI:   I don't know.   I think many players did the best year this year, so I cannot tell you one player.   For the moment Azarenka is the No. 1, so maybe I tell you her.  
But I think Serena, Maria Sharapova, Kerber, me,   many players did the best year, I think.   I tell you Azarenka because she's the first one, of course.   
   
 Q.   You've never played in a tournament like this before where it's a round robin and you could lose a match and still keep playing and have doubles at the end of week instead of during the week.   How do you prepare for this very unique tournament?   
SARA ERRANI:   I just try to prepare like always.   Just working on the practice courts.   It's good that also if you lose you can still playing.   It's a good thing for me.  
I hope to stay good also from the first day, but we will see.  
   
 Q.   Are you excited after this tournament you have some exhibitions coming up, matches in Italy, which I don't think you've really had before?   Are you excited to learn what that environment is like, too?   
SARA ERRANI:   Yes, of course.   I think it's a good thing.   It's in Italy, Milano, and I'm happy to play there and can many friend come to see me play with so good players like Maria, Ivanovic, and Vinci, of course I'm happy for that.   
   
 Q.   How big difference will it make the surface and indoor?   
SARA ERRANI:   We change surface and everything all the year, so I think we are good players to know how to change, to know the courts.   It's indoor court.   It's faster than outside.  
But I think the court is not too fast, so it's a very good surface.   
   
 Q.   What kind of results you are planning in here, planning to take in here?   
SARA ERRANI:   What kind of results?   
   
 Q.   Yeah, which results can satisfy you?   
SARA ERRANI:   I don't know.   I'm not thinking like that.   I think just to go on the court and do my best.   That is what I think, not what I won.   I didn't think like that even one tournament, so I'm not doing now.  
I just want to go on the court and try my best, and I will see where I can arrive.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT