U.S. OPEN
September 5, 2012
Sara Errani
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. ERRANI/R. Vinci
  6‑2, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   First of all, congratulations on the win.   Playing obviously an opponent that you know very well and had a little extra time to really anticipate this match with the rain and so forth yesterday, talk about what it was like for the two of you to be out there playing and how you feel about the way you prevailed. 
SARA ERRANI:   Yeah, it was very difficult match, I think.   Quarterfinal with your best friend, of course, is difficult.   There is many tension.   Also for the rain, we were going out, in, then out, in, out.   So it was difficult. 
We know each other very well.   We played together many times.   So was also strange to see her on the other side of the net.   Normally also when you walk on the court, we go together, we speak.   Today was a bit strange, but sometimes happens. 
I think we played a good match.   For the tension is normal.   It's not unbelievable match, but we played a good match, I think.

Q.   You've played so well at the Grand Slams this year.   Congratulations on No. 1 position in the doubles. 
SARA ERRANI:   Thank you.

Q.   Would you consider this a breakout year for you?   Breakout year, meaning, your level has just come up so high this year.   Talk about the year in general. 
SARA ERRANI:   Yeah, it's the best year of my life, of course.   I'm playing very good.   Also that my ranking is very high.   I just try to think playing the matches, go on the court, and try to fight the best as I can and that's it. 
Of course I'm playing good.   I feel good on the court of shots and everything.   So these thing happens.   Also, there is more confidence winning matches, so also for the ranking maybe you go in the court thinking more that you can win than maybe before. 
Before maybe when I was a bit ‑‑ two or three years ago for me was a bit difficult going on the court and feel that I can win with the best players.
Now I feel that a bit different.   I feel that when I'm on the court I feel good and I feel that I can fight with everybody.   So this is the important thing.

Q.   You have done many things this year, top 10, doubles No. 1.   What are you proudest of?
SARA ERRANI:   What?   Sorry? 

Q.   What are you most happy about?
SARA ERRANI:   Everything.   Of course, No. 1 in the world with doubles with your best friend is amazing.   Maybe the best. 
But also having results.   The better thing I think also is that after Roland Garros I was keeping playing good, keeping fighting like here. 
First round very difficult, fighting all the point with Muguruza was very tough match.   Maybe I can lose that match and I'm not here. 
So the good thing is to fight and try to won and be hungry to won more matches.   Don't think about the other things and stop, but keep going and try to fight more.   This maybe is the best one.

Q.   I know you said confidence and your racquet.   What else do you think you're doing so well?
SARA ERRANI:   Well, nothing strange.   The same thing that I'm doing for all my life:   try to practice the best I can; try to give everything on the court that I have; try to improve every day.   I have many person near me that help me in doing these things.
I think this is the thing. 

Q.   Have do you worked at all this year with Dr.Lewis Garcia del Moral? 
SARA ERRANI:   I already speak about these thing.   Of course was strange thing to hear that he was involved in these things.   I already say what I have to say. 
How you say in English?   (Through translation.)   I have no problems about that.   Nothing to say.

Q.   So now that the ITF have sort of warned players against working with him, will you not see him again?
SARA ERRANI:   I speak with the ITF and they didn't tell me that I cannot go anymore to him.   They told me that I can go if I want, but of course I'm not interested in to keep working with one person that is involved in these things.
Of course maybe I will not work anymore with him.   He was the best doctor in Valencia for everything, so I have been working with him of course.   But now his name is not good name, so I don't want to sporcare (dirty) my name for his name. 
So I think I will not working anymore with him.

Q.   Talk about playing either Ana Ivanovic or Serena Williams in the semifinal. 
SARA ERRANI:   We will wait who won, but of course they are two great players.   Serena is playing unbelievable I think.   So we will see. 
I'm in semifinal for something.   I won many matches.   I'm playing good.   So I have to just going on the court and try to make my game as the best as I can, how I have to do all these days. 
So I will try and we will see. 

Q.   How confident are you that you could win this tournament?
SARA ERRANI:   I never think about that, even in the small tournaments.   I never think to won the tournament.   I just ‑‑I like to think, to play my game, to try to do my work the best as I can day by day.   I don't want to think too much in front.
You just have to think about next match, next match, and if you want, you can continue.   If you lost, that's it. 
I don't think about that. 

Q.   Even when you're two matches away?
SARA ERRANI:   Yeah.   Maybe you think that.   (Smiling.)
But to have two, you have to won the first.   So if you don't win the first you don't have the second opportunity.   I will try.

Q.   Do you miss the days when you didn't have to do so much media?
SARA ERRANI:   No, I don't miss.   Of course is good to do more of these things, because you won many matches.   Of course it's what you have to do.   It's okay. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT