U.S. OPEN
September 3, 2012
Sara Errani
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. ERRANI/A. Kerber
  7‑6, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Is it fair to say that a racquet change has caused a career change for you?
SARA ERRANI:   Yes, I think so.   Of course.   This year with this racquet made me feel different on the court and make me feel much better.   This is the best year of my life, for sure.   Of course. 

Q.   You couldn't get that racquet from Wilson? 
SARA ERRANI:   No.   We tried to find a solution, but we couldn't.   We tried to take one similar as possible or make the changes, but was not possible. 
It was like practicing loving that racquet, so I just say, Okay, doesn't matter.   This time I have to try this, and was good.

Q.   How would you assess your match today?
SARA ERRANI:   Well, it was incredible fight, I think.   It was very difficult match mentally and also physically. 
So it was very difficult.   First set was one hour and 15, I think.   So it was also very tactic match, I think.   Trying to wait the other, try to do the better thing for me, the worst for her.
So it was strange game also sometimes.

Q.   What was the difference between this match and the one in Paris?
SARA ERRANI:   Well, it was quite similar.   Of course, here is a bit more difficult to play with topspin long because it's faster.   But for my side was quite similar.   The tactic was almost the same, so... 

Q.   Do you like the hard court better than clay or not as well?
SARA ERRANI:   No, of course I prefer clay courts, but I like also hard court.   When the ball is with Wilson ball the bounce also can be high.   So it's also these courts are not too fast.   But I like to play on these courts also, not only on clay.

Q.   What do you think made the difference so that you won and not Angelique?
SARA ERRANI:   I don't know.   Was just a few points, so was very near all the points.   I don't know.   I tried to be as focused as possible.   I tried to fight all the point as the last one.   I don't know.

Q.   You and Vinci have a very successful partnership.   What do you think is the key to your doubles success with Roberta?
SARA ERRANI:   The doubles key? 

Q.   Why are you so successful together?
SARA ERRANI:   First thing I can say is because we are also very friends outside the court.   This one is one thing that helps very much on the court, because, you know, the other, they are to help the other.
But also because we are playing both very good, I think this year we are playing very good tennis.   So everything.   Also this one.

Q.   Venus and Serena, do you think the fact that they're sisters and close as well helped them play doubles together?
SARA ERRANI:   Yes.   But of course they are amazing players, Williams sisters.   One more thing that can help them, but they are very strong. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT