NEW HAVEN OPEN AT YALE
August 24, 2012
Sara Errani
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 P. KVITOVA/S. Errani
  6‑1, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   She has that big serve all the time.   When she's returning your serve as she was today, does that make her almost unbeatable?  
SARA ERRANI:   Well, was a very difficult match.   She serve more than me, she hit more than me.   Was like for me inside like no way.   
I just try to play my game, but all the point was very fast.   I didn't have the opportunity to make my game.   Serving, I just tried to hit as fast as I can, and is not enough.   
If I try to hit more strong, maybe I make more fault.   But I have to try everything.   I just try everything.   But she was also playing I think incredible on the baseline, hitting so strong.   So not too many mistakes.   
So was difficult.   
   
 Q.   This match aside, did you like how you played here in New Haven?   Assess your game going into the Open.   
SARA ERRANI:   Yes, of course.   Is a semifinal.   Of course, is a great tournament.   Today was not the best of my game, but maybe also for her.   
But I think it's a very good tournament for me and I hope to going good also in New York.   
   
 Q.   Have you had a chance to look at the draw yet?  
SARA ERRANI:   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   The player you're playing first...   
SARA ERRANI:   I never see her play.   I know she's young.   She's playing good.   Is a tough match, of course.   All the match are tough first round.   
I will play Tuesday, so it's a good start.   We will see.   We will see.   
   
 Q.   Do you tend to look just one match at a time?  
SARA ERRANI:   Yeah, just one match at a time, of course.   
   
 Q.   Having played Kvitova today, do you think she's a real threat at the US Open to someone like Serena, playing as well as she is now?  
SARA ERRANI:   I don't know.   Of course, yes, I think she's playing very good.   Today she play also very good.   
Of course, Serena is playing unbelievable.   So I don't know.   For sure she will be one of the first player to maybe won the tournament.   
   
 Q.   You lost to Venus a couple times this summer.   Can you compare Venus' game with Kvitova's.   
SARA ERRANI:   I've made the same games with Venus and with Kvitova.   Both are serving very good.   Maybe Venus is serving more fast.   But Kvitova has a second serve fast also, and she's left hand.   Is more difficult to return.   
On the baseline, I don't know, are both good players.   I think Venus is playing much better than all the year in the last two or three weeks.   
Are both very good players.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT