NEW HAVEN OPEN AT YALE
August 23, 2012
Sara Errani
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. ERRANI/M. Bartoli
  6‑4, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You started out so strong, then she fought back.   Talk about having to hold on.   
SARA ERRANI:   Yeah, was 4‑Love.   But after was 5‑2, 5‑4.   But I had to won the games.   
Just continue play like this.   She start to play a bit better, but I start to play more short the ball.   She can come more in the court when I play more short.   
Of course, she play so straight, so strong.   I just have to try to change the game to make her run, play maybe high balls also to change the game.   
   
 Q.   Have you played Petra much lately?   What do you think about playing her tomorrow?  
SARA ERRANI:   Yeah, I lost against her in Fed Cup, also in Australia.   Of course, she's a very good player.   It's normal in a semifinal of this tournament.   
But we will see.   I'm playing good.   I'm confident.   So I will try my best for sure and we will see.   She's left hand, of course.   She serve so good.   She play like strong ball, like Bartoli.   Also will try to change the game and we will see.   
   
 Q.   What is it you think you'll need to do tomorrow to win the match?   
SARA ERRANI:   Yeah, is what I say:   play consistent, play long, try to move her.   I will not say to you everything; she will know.   But, of course, try to do my game the best I can.   
   
 Q.   Bartoli is an emotional player.   She came back at 4‑3, you hit a ball that was out, she hit it back over.   
SARA ERRANI:   No, 5‑2.   
   
 Q.   It seemed to upset you a little bit.   Do you recall that?  
SARA ERRANI:   No, I don't remember.   I remember she hit the ball on 6‑4 when we finish the first set.   
   
 Q.   Maybe that was the one.   That doesn't upset you or bother you?  
SARA ERRANI:   No.   If you see the other, that is more angry, is better for you.   But no.   
   
 Q.   Did you expect a closer match with her?  
SARA ERRANI:   Well, it was very close.   
   
 Q.   Especially in the second set you dominated.   
SARA ERRANI:   Yeah, but not very easy.   Was a long match.   Was 6‑4, 6‑2, but we play more than one hour and a half.   Was very tight match.   All the games was advantage.   Also, if the score is like this, it was very difficult.   
In the second, the game from 4‑2 to 5‑2 was very difficult.   Can change the match also.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT