THE SENIOR OPEN PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 26, 2018
John Daly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How did that go today?  Are you managing to hold up with the knee?  
JOHN DALY: Yeah, it's about the seventh, eighth hole.  I had bone marrow put in last Monday.  My doctor told me it's going to take two to six weeks for the burning to get out of the hip.  That's really what's burning, the bone marrow.  The knee feels okay.   
 Q.  Are you playing with a lot of pain?  
JOHN DALY: Not as much as I have been in the knee but just got to give this some time to get in there.  The knee actually feels better than it has in a long time.  Just the hip is going to, and I'm hitting it nowhere.   
 Q.  In the circumstances, 3-under is a good score, isn't it?  
JOHN DALY: Yeah, the wind blew pretty hard.  You don't have to hit it far here, or any British Open.  You just have to maneuver around the bunkers and you have to putt it and chip it.  I putted okay today.  That back nine played just about as hard as it can.  Different wind, every hole was pretty much in the wind except 10 and 11.   
 Q.  Do you feel the nostalgia coming back here?  So many players enjoying being back.  
JOHN DALY: Yeah, I come here just to play.  Just any chance I can play at St. Andrews, that's all I really care about.  If I come here and play with some bud dies, it means as much to me as this tournament.  I know the tournament is a little more important but it's St. Andrews.  I don't really get caught up in the tournament moments when I've played here.  I just get caught up in playing St. Andrews.  It's an awesome feeling to walk these fairways that so many great players have.   
 Q.  Are you surprised yourself how quickly you managed to recover to play?  
JOHN DALY: Well, the doctor told me there would be serious pain in the hip and the knee is going to hurt but I won't feel the pain that I have.  He's dead on.  I'm hoping two weeks the burning comes out of the hip, not six.   
 Q.  So it was a smart play to pull out of last week, or you may have been struggling here?  
JOHN DALY: If I wouldn't have got this done, I wouldn't have been able to play last week no, way.  As much as I hate -- I love Carnoustie.  I look at my stats at Carnoustie, I love it but I've never really played it great, and of course, no rain, and the rough didn't look too bad.  There's always a chance when it's dry for anybody.  But I did the right thing.   
 Q.  When did you have the procedure?  
JOHN DALY: A week ago Monday.  I withdrew on Friday.  Saturday, I tried to hit balls Saturday, and I drove back Chicago 11 hours to home and on Monday, Dr. Moore, he didn't know me from Adam, but he sent me an e-mail, got it through Dr. Horsefield (ph), he's been a wonderful doctor of mine for years.   
They said, this is it, and if this doesn't work, they will do a knee replacement.  So far it's okay.   
 Q.  That's pretty drastic if that's the next stage?  
JOHN DALY: Well, it's major osteoarthritis, so the cartilage is just going to deteriorate as older as I get, and I understand why doctors don't want to do it.  They said if they do it, the scar tissue alone will probably cover the titanium or whatever they put in and I'll be getting another knee surgery in a year.  It's just one of those, it just sucks.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT