AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 12, 2015
John Daly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JOHN DALY:   I thought that bunker shot might turn a little left, but, no.   It was ‑‑ for me to play bogey‑free round at Pebble is pretty good for me.   
   
 Q.   After you picked up a win last fall over in Europe, you come in here you got to find some momentum.   You found some out there today, didn't you?   
JOHN DALY:   Yeah, I hit a lot of fairways.   I've been struggling with the driver, hitting it a little left.   Today I didn't miss too many left with the new arrow burner, which ‑‑ it is just getting some confidence in that hitting a lot of fairways.   I still feel like I got somewhat of the length to play somewhat long golf courses.   Not like some of the guys, but I just hit it in good positions and I left myself those six or seven pins that were back that I left myself good uphill putts.   Didn't knock any over the green.  
   
 Q.   Your partner Herman Edwards is a motivational speak.   Did he help you out there today?  
JOHN DALY:   He's just the most positive human beings in the world.   He reminds me of Chip Beck.   No matter what happens, everything's positive.   Me and Tommy Gainey were talking about it.   We would like to go see him speak somewhere, just to get fired up.  
   
 Q.   As many times you've been here to Pebble Beach, have you ever seen it this nice?  
JOHN DALY:   No, never.   I never, ever as long as I've had my card, 24 years, or played out here 24 years.   No, I've never seen it like this.   This is awesome.  
   
 Q.   (No Microphone.)  
JOHN DALY:   He couldn't believe how comfortable they were.   Most people that you wear these, you think, oh, my God, look at that design, look at this.   But when you put them on they're very comfortable.  
   
 Q.   How was it playing with him?  
JOHN DALY:   It's just motivational.   The guy is so easy to play with and everything's just so positive about him.   That's why he was such a great football player and a great coach.   
   
 Q.   Talk about positives.   I mean coming in, you have to get your starts when you can get them to get in this week.   What did you come in thinking and how do you do it when you know that you're kind like a little under the gun, because you only get so many starts?   
JOHN DALY:   Yeah, it's tough, but I've always loved playing Pebble Beach.   If I usually drive the ball halfway decent here, I can usually score.   I'm not a great poa annua putter, but I made a couple today.   I made three or four putts outside of eight, nine feet in that range that kept me going.   
But I had four or five gimmie birdies today which is something that really gets you motivated and keeps you going.   It was just a good ball striking round.   Only slip up I had was 12 of the‑‑ I hit a fat 5‑iron and made a good seven‑footer for par.   And other than that, it was a pretty solid day for me.   
   
 Q.   17, you just burned the rim there on that putt.   Looked like that was going in.   
JOHN DALY:   Yeah, it kind of bounced out of the hole.   I thought I made it.   If there was a putt I thought I made today, it was on 17.   I hit a couple I thought I missed that went in.   But it's poa annua, that's just‑‑ to me, it's the toughest greens to putt on.  
   
 Q.   Herm said you missed probably three putts.   Just like what you were talking about on 17 that you just missed.   This round then could have been much better, obviously.   
JOHN DALY:   Yeah, it did, but I made a few.   I made my share of three or four or five or eight footers that saved the day.   And Tommy hit it probably just as good as I did, he just couldn't get one to fall.   He hit it really well as well.   
But like I said, poa annua greens, they're just, they're greens that you got to ram them in, but here they're so slopey and undulating that you just can't do it.  
   
 Q.   Have you ever seen Pebble Beach play like this?   So calm and scores so good?  
JOHN DALY:   I never in my life, 24 or 26 years, however long I been a pro coming here, I've never seen a prettier, most beautiful day than I saw at Pebble today.  
   
 Q.   I know you won in Turkey, but obviously this is a little different to play here than Turkey.   So how do you take today and then start capitalizing on it for tomorrow?  
JOHN DALY:   For me, it's all just driving the ball well.   I feel like I got‑‑ I'm close with the driver, with TaylorMade.   I got an arrow burner that the only thing that goes left is a pull.   
So, I drove the ball pretty well, except for two pulls, but they were okay.   As long as I hit my driver well and hit some fairways, I still got the length to‑‑ I still feel like I can compete with the guys.   But it's all in the driver.   
   
 Q.   Do you think you got Pebble at an advantageous day?   This can be a crazy place sometimes.   
JOHN DALY:   Trust me, it is a crazy place.   I played here when I've hit 4‑iron, chipped 4‑iron on 7.   So the weather is supposed to be great, but the wind could pick up here any time.   
But I love playing this golf course.   I don't care if it's windy.   It's just when you get the cold, the wind, and the rain together and it's tough on all of us.   It's tough on the amateurs, tough on the spectators, like it was last year.   
It's just great to be able to come out here and not have to survive the weather and survive the golf course.   But we'll just see what happens.   It's exciting to play Pebble without a bogey.   
   
 Q.   How do you feel going forward on Monterey and Spyglass the next two days?  
JOHN DALY:   I don't know.   Each hole at a time.   I start on 10, a par‑5 tomorrow, and it's early.   But just‑‑ it's just a matter of getting off to a good start, taking advantage of that hole somehow and just kind of do what I did today.   
There's a lot of pins on the back edges of these greens that if I would have taken that half club more and went at it, I could have ‑‑ we wouldn't even be talking to you guys because that's how severe some of these greens are and those pins were today.  
   
 Q.   How is it having everyone here enjoying this experience?  
JOHN DALY:   It's great.   Well, with her daughter and my two, that's pretty much, that's our team.   It's been that way for a few years.   And on and off the golf course I couldn't be happier in my life.   I'm struggling with him in the sixth grade, but other than that, we're doing pretty good.   
   
 Q.   She says those wild days are long behind.   Kind of in the rear view mirror?  
JOHN DALY:   We're very boring people right now.   We really are.   But we have fun together.  
   
 Q.   Is it fair to say that you can still get excited after you get done with all this and you go back and sit down and having an ice tea or whatever, that you still kind of get a little jazzed about having rounds like this?  
JOHN DALY:   No doubt.   Because like I said, I'll speak for pretty much every guy out here, they don't come easy and they don't come often.   
68, 69, 70 sometimes come a lot often for us, but not 64 or 65 and 66 and 3s and 2.   They just don't come is that often.   Yeah, I just, I'm happy about it.   Hopefully I can just keep that same rhythm that I had today.   I had very good rhythm.   I don't know why or how, but I found something on the range that I just 80 percent today.   And it worked.   Hopefully I can keep that same mental attitude throughout the rest of the week.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT