TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN BY THE MINISTRY OF YOUTH AND SPORT
November 15, 2014
John Daly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   A round of 67, 8‑under par total for three rounds.   What's been the secret to success so far this week?  
JOHN DALY:   Just hanging in with the weather.   I had a really great‑‑ about the last 12‑hole stretch, putted really good.   Made a lot of putts.   Just made a few birdies.   
The course is tough to hit the fairways here.   That's the thing.   If you get it in the rough, you're just kind of chopping out.   So I'm amazed at how low the scores are and I'm amazed at how well I'm playing to be honest with you.  
   
 Q.   8‑under par, four off the lead as it currently stands.   Your thoughts going into the final round in that situation?  
JOHN DALY:   The course, you've just got to concentrate on trying to get the ball in the fairway out here.   It takes away any kind of nervousness or anything else.   You're so focused on trying to hit a fairway that that is all that's important.   Hopefully you can advance it, get it on the green and make some putts.   
For me, I didn't hit a lot of fairways today.   I just recovered well.   I putted well and made a lot of good par putts and made a lot of good birdie putts but I don't think I hit that many fairways.   I've got to hit some fairways tomorrow to have a chance.   
   
 Q.   I wanted to ask you about comments you made about the U.S. Ryder Cup Team, you said we don't need a task force, we need Phil or Tiger to captain.   Tell us about that.   
JOHN DALY:   I think it's just time.   I've never‑‑ I've always been a fan of a player captain.   They have done it before, and I think it fits up Phil and Tiger's alley because I think it takes away the pressure on the team of having a captain.   Let one of the players do it and maybe they will be more loose.   
Our guys just need to loosen up and have a good time like the Europeans do, that's the bottom line.   You're playing for your country.   And honestly, when I watched a little bit of The Ryder Cup this year, we didn't play that bad.   We just got beat.   Hats off to the Europeans.   Our guys should have been proud of the way they played.   
We played great.   I don't like what everybody's done with Tom.   Tom's a legend of the game of golf, and you know, he's one of the nicest guys I've ever met.   He's always tried to help me any time I was in trouble, or if I needed help, whether it's positive or negative.   
And I think the thing about Phil, what he said, I think it was blown out of proportion.   It was a question, what does the U.S. need to do differently, and Phil didn't say anything bad against Tom.   He just said, I think we need to do it the way Azinger did it.   I think Phil should captain.   Let him do it the way Azinger did it.   It would just be an honour to be a part of it, to be honest with you, whether I'm playing or whatever, just to do something to help them.   
   
 Q.   One of the better rounds in this third round.   What were you doing so well out there today?  
JOHN DALY:   Just putting good.   I made a lot of putts.   I was fortunate to birdie a few of the par 5s.   Took advantage of a couple of them.   But the bottom line is, I didn't hit a lot of fairways.   I just scored well.   Trying to get out of this rough's not easy, I can promise you that because it's thick.   
The bottom line, I just played really, really well and chipped the ball good.   
   
 Q.   How much of an advantage do you think you built today to carry into the final round?  
JOHN DALY:   It's hard to say.   It's so hard to hit these fairways out here.   There's no line points out me.   Avoid a couple trees on a few of them off the tee, but other than that‑‑ I like to hit a cut and there's nothing to aim at, like even the first hole.   The bunkers are so far left, you're just sitting there trying to pinpoint and guess where I need to aim for my cut; either hit it way right or hit it way left.   
It's a matter of hitting the fairways because the fairways are perfect, and if the ball is in your hand, you can actually score.   You won't have any mud balls.   Like I said, I've just got to hit more fairways and hope to God I putt as good as I did today.  
   
 Q.   Considering you are going to be chasing the lead on Sunday, does that force you to ramp up on the aggressive metre?   
JOHN DALY:   Not really.   I mean, you try and take advantage of the par 5s.   Like I said, they are the hardest fairways for me to hit.   Just got to keep doing what I'm doing.   I'm hitting a lot of 3‑woods off the tees here and I'm actually hitting my 3‑wood really, really well.   I haven't hit the driver well but may just go out and hit 3‑wood all day.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT