COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 23, 2014
John Daly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Horrible time for you to set that alarm clock?   
JOHN DALY:   Not really when I was up at 3.30 so I'm probably on L.A. time on the West Coast.   Not too booed, I got up at 3:30 and I was ready to go.   Didn't need an alarm clock.  
   
 Q.   And the course is a little bit different at the time of day?  
JOHN DALY:   Yeah, it plays a little longer in the mornings, and the pins, I don't think there was maybe three or four pins that were close to being on the front of the greens today.   They were all on the back and that made it more difficult and made it difficult to get it close to the hole.   
I hit it pretty good.   Thought I made a couple more putts, would have been great, but very pleased with the way I'm playing.   
   
 Q.   Nice to put two back‑to‑back, and that you're involved in the championship?  
JOHN DALY:   Yeah, especially here.   This isn't an easy golf course.   It's in great shape but it's a tough golf course.   The fairways are not the easiest to hit, and you know, you miss it a little too far right and left, no telling what it can happen.   But like I said, I kept it close to the fairway a lot today and hit a lot of fairways, so my irons were really good today.  
   
 Q.   Are you still finding that things come just very naturally or as you age and develop, you're having to do different things to what you did a few years ago?   
JOHN DALY:   Well, I mean, I don't think the swing's quite as long as it used to be and I don't think I walk quite as fast as I used to, but everything else is pretty much the same.   
   
 Q.   Game still every bit as strong as it always was?   
JOHN DALY:   Probably think as we get older, especially more for myself, it's more passion about it, and whether you‑‑ whether I win or not, just playing good makes me feel really well and it would be great to be in contention.   But I like the way I'm playing.   I like my patience and I like my mentality right now.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT