COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 22, 2014
John Daly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about 5‑under par to start this championship?
JOHN DALY:   Well, I started off putting really, really well this year and I keep putting good.   The putter saved me.   I made three kind of bombs on the first three holes to go 3‑under real quick.   And you know, got in some trouble a couple times with the driver, keep hitting it left, and just managed to make a couple pars with it and save a couple bogeys with it. 
No, just everything was great.   Just putted really, really good today.

Q.   Sounds like a bit of everything thrown in there and you know that you can score low around this track?
JOHN DALY:   Yeah, I got a way with a few tee balls today where I actually had some shots.   You know, normally that doesn't happen too many times, especially when you're hitting it out of that stuff left of the fairway or right of the fairway like I did about three times today.   But you know, it's golf.   I've just got to hit more fairways and I hope I just keep putting the way I'm putting.

Q.   Absolutely.   Do you like it here?
JOHN DALY:   I like it here.   I've played Abu Dhabi one time and I loved it there.   I'm going to play Dubai next week and here.   This is like my fourth or fifth.   It reminds me a little bit of Palm Springs.   It's just the people are very nice, and everything's so clean.   It's just a great place to come to. 

Q.   Put it into context, how does the year map out so far?   What do you reckon is coming up? 
JOHN DALY:   I'm going to play Dubai and then I'm going to play Pebble with my buddy, Kid Rock, that ought to be entertaining.   After that, I don't really know.   I haven't heard on anything.   Hopefully might get into Puerto Rico on my number, hopefully get in at Innisbrook and then I'll going to go play a tournament in Malaysia during Valero.   I'm hoping to play the BMW in Cologne.   I know I'm going to play there and hopefully The Irish Open and hopefully ten,11, 12, maybe 13 more starts in the States.

Q.   You've become used to this, not knowing entirely what the future holds?
JOHN DALY:   No, you don't, but like I said, I've always loved coming overseas.   I've always enjoying playing with the European guys and they have always been really, really nice to me over here.   You know, that makes you feel good and I'll return the favor when they come to the States.   Like I said, I love coming over here.   Right now, the age that I'm at, 47, to play either tour for the next 2 1/2 years would be great. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT