PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 2012
John Daly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Part of the growing process?  
JOHN DALY:   I honestly think my best round was Friday.   I thought par was about 78, so I feel like I shot 1‑under on Friday just to hang in there.   
Thursday was a good day, but I didn't putt real good.   I didn't make a lot of putts.   I didn't really make a lot of putts all this week.   So I hit the ball great, I just have to get some putts to fall.  
   
 Q.   What do you take way from this week?   
JOHN DALY:   I only made one double.   I didn't make a double the day that it blew on Friday.   I've got confidence in my ball‑striking ability to just keep plugging along, not playing great, you kind of get down and you go for broke.   But I stayed patient this week and I made a double on a 6 on a bad swing, but I just love the way I'm hitting the golf ball.  
   
 Q.   Did you show yourself that you can play major championship golf again and contend, is that what this week did for you?   
JOHN DALY:   I think contend, if I would have been 3‑ or 4‑under going into today maybe, or the British if I would have been up there a little bit more.   But it's baby steps for me.   
Like I said, I'm slowly but surely getting more and more confidence because I'm making a lot of cuts.   Whether you play great on a weekend or bad, at least you're playing competitive.   That's what I need, whether it's 15 weeks in a row, 20 weeks in a row; I've always been a guy that likes to play a lot, anyway.   
So I just feel like I've got a great rhythm.   It's nice to know that if I can just make a few extra putts, maybe one or two more a round, I can be in contention.   
   
 Q.   Was this a fair test for the PGA Championship, a fair test of championship golf?   
JOHN DALY:   Yeah, I think Friday, even The PGA of America said they wished they had put the tees up a little bit more on 10, 11, 12 and 13, but other than that, they did a great job.   They gave us an opportunity on 3 to go for the green.   They moved the tees up.   If we had tipped this course all four days, I don't think anybody would have come close to breaking par.   
But it's a great golf course and I think everybody loves it.   It's just tough.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT