BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 20, 2012
John Daly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MICHAEL GIBBONS:   John, welcome to the BMW International Open.   Give us an update, how are you playing?   How are you feeling?   All good?   
JOHN DALY:   Somewhat okay.   I've been playing pretty good.   I had a great finish in Memphis on Sunday, something that has not happened in a long time.   I was able to shoot 54 on Sunday in Memphis, gave me some confidence in the game.   
It's been, ever since I got hurt in India, it was tough, because I was on pretty good momentum playing The European Tour, in Qatar and not too bad in Dubai, and I was actually hitting it pretty good in India, and then I got hurt and was out for four to five weeks and came back.   So, you know, I'm on like a 10‑ to 11‑week stretch which is good for me.  
MICHAEL GIBBONS:   Nice to be back in Europe.  
JOHN DALY:   Yeah it's always nice to be back here.  
MICHAEL GIBBONS:   You seemed very popular here in Germany with the fans yesterday in your exhibition match.   Was that enjoyable?   
JOHN DALY:   All of the guys, we all had a blast.   That's something that on our tour, we used to do the Merrill Lynch Shootouts to where they could actually see our personalities more rather than having to be serious all the time.   That was a great day yesterday.   Had the music; they should just play the music all throughout 18 holes.   That way we don't worry about the cameras clicking and people talking and you just play the music, it overrides everything.   
   
 Q.   We know you won in Munich; did you play in course in Cologne before?   
JOHN DALY:   Yeah, when it was the Linde Masters, with Erwin and Bernhard Langer.   I think I played it twice.   But it is playing a lot different with the rough the way it is.   Can't really take on the doglegs now because they have got‑‑ I don't know what that grass is called.   We call it hay, but it's pretty thick.   It's hard.   
So the fairways are something you've got to really get this week.   It's not like when I played here the last two times I played, I think I would go ahead and take a chance and hit it in the rough and not worry about it, but you can't do it this year.   
   
 Q.   After all what you have experienced in your life, do you feel happier nowadays than when you were at the top of your game?  
JOHN DALY:   Yeah, more at ease.   I've always kind of said, I wish my mind was like this in the 90s.   My game was good.   My mind wasn't.   My mind's good now; my game's not so good.   Maybe when I'm 60 I'll get it right.   I don't know.   
I'm feeling okay.   I've been playing hurt an awful lot.   To play the last two events I've played in, no pain or my elbow or my knee, or whatever, it felt pretty good.   But for me to play really good, I've got to be on a stretch.   
So this 10‑,11‑week stretch, hopefully some good things can happen.   I'm playing two here and go back to the States and play two, come back over and play the British, and then play Canada, Reno and then our PGA, and then I play the Wyndham and the Knoxville Nationwide event and hopefully come back over here for Dunhill.   
   
 Q.   Coming back yesterday, when you have been voted in by the fans here in Germany to join from the Open in the U.S., it was a really big win for you, how much does it feel to get that much support from your fans here in Germany?   
JOHN DALY:   It's great, being a past champion of this tournament makes it even better.   But just all of Europe, I mean, it's been a great place for me to come.   I've had my up‑and‑downs everywhere I've been, but the fans in Europe have always stood behind me.   
That was kind of a cool thing that they kind of voted me in to play yesterday, although I barely made it, I had to take another flight.   My flight was 2 1/2 hours late out of Little Rock and so I missed my connecting flight to Chicago.   Luckily they had another one here, so I barely made it.   No, that was fun yesterday, it was a lot of fun.   I think all of the guys enjoyed it, having the kids hit some shots with us and stuff.     
   
 Q.   Is that your design, the trousers?   
JOHN DALY:   No, this is the only way I can keep women in my life happy.   (Laughter) I have about four or five pairs, like the Dallas Cowboy ones.   We have a licensing deal with Mr.Jones and the Dallas Cowboys football team.   I did that one.   I did a red, too, that goes with the Arkansas Razorbacks where I went to college, and a couple other ones that I did.   
But mainly Larry and Woody, the CEO and CFO, are the ones who pretty much do all the designs.  
   
 Q.   What do you think the other players think about it?   
JOHN DALY:   Most of them‑‑ I'm sure there's some that think it's not good.   But 95 per cent of the guys that I've talked to love it, and we've sent‑‑ there's probably 30 to 40 guys in the States that we have sent shorts to, pants to, sport coats, ties, jackets and stuff, that they love.   They love to practise in the shorts, and probably 25 to 30 European guys.   Darren Clarke's good.   He's killing my business right now.   His kids keep growing and we keep sending him more stuff for his kids.   
But the kids love it, and like I said, a lot of the players really like to play in their shorts and stuff.   We have pretty much every colour, whether it's almost the colour of their favourite football team, as you call soccer here, or the flags.   
So it's popular I think amongst most of the players.   But then again there are some players that wouldn't dare wear them.   
MICHAEL GIBBONS:   Any names?   
JOHN DALY:   No.   (Laughing).  
   
 Q.   How many pieces do you produce in a month or a year?   
JOHN DALY:   I'm not sure of the numbers.   We are up 37 percent this year, which we are kind of up too much, which is good, but meeting the demand is tough, getting the fabrics done.  
We have over almost 60 patterns now, but when you're tying‑‑ we have got swimsuits now for the men, hopefully come out with the ladies pretty soon.   When you're doing ties and sport coats and hats and shirts and gloves and everything, the demand gets overwhelming, which is a good thing.   We want to be able to make sure we get all of the order to everybody, and the rate we are going, we are having to boost it up a little bit, because it's just selling too fast.   
   
 Q.   When was the last time you played 11 weeks in a row?   
JOHN DALY:   Kind of a stretch of last year.   I started, I think it was right around the West Virginia last year was a good stretch.   I played all those that I mentioned, and I came over for six or seven in a row in Europe.   Like I said, I don't mind it.   I've always been that way.   
MICHAEL GIBBONS:   Thanks for joining us.   Good luck this week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT