RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 23, 2011
John Daly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. A 67, 3-under par gets you right there to get a chance to do something on the weekend. How do you feel about today's round?   
 JOHN DALY: I hit the driver really good today. It was just a good ball striking day. You've got to hit fairways around here. I think I had to chip out maybe twice. And I had a three-putt, but other than that, I hit the ball really well today.  
  
  Q. That is absolutely the key with everybody. It's in the fairway. Are you using driver a lot or are you laying up a lot on the tee?   
 JOHN DALY: You have to. If you do lay-up, you can't get to the green on your approach shots at all. So the golf course, you know, on some of the par-4s are so long you have to drive it. It almost plays a par-5.   
 So probably the risk of hitting driver there and hitting driver on 16, but it sets up for, especially 16, sets up for my fade.   
 You've just got to attack. I mean, it's the only way you can do it. If you do have a shorter one, you might have a chance of rolling it on the green.  
  
  Q. A lot of guys have been laying up in the rough. If you're in the rough and you hit it far, at least you got a wedge in your hand and you might be able to get it on the green or at least manage it up in front.   
 JOHN DALY: Yeah, that's all you can do. You hit an iron or hybrid or 3-wood off the tee on some of these holes and you don't hit it so solid, actually your chip -out some aren't even getting to the fairways. So it's just a great golf course.  
  
  Q. Good to have you back. Play well tomorrow and have some fun.   
 JOHN DALY: Thanks, appreciate it.  
  
  Q. What have you been doing well out here to today?   
 JOHN DALY: I've been hitting the drivers pretty good this week. I haven't made a ton of putts. But this isn't a putting contest. It's more of every hole out here, 18 holes, and if you par all of them, you feel pretty good about yourself.   
 So you can't really attack some of the lines, you have to suck it up and say, hey, I'm going to go right of this hole and short side yourself, not getting up-and-down.   
 But I've kind of managed it well. I've hit a lot of drivers, because I feel like getting it down there where you can at least have a chance to get it on the green is about all you can do. If you lay-up on the fairway, you're not getting it on the green.  
  
  Q. Is this something you've found this week or something the last couple of months that you've been working on?   
 JOHN DALY: I've been hitting the golf ball really, really good. I just have been in a real bad funk of scoring. Kind of just playing it simple. Hit a good chip but you miss the putt. Hit a good approach shot and miss the birdie.   
 I've been chipping bad and haven't been putting good. This week I chipped it pretty good. I haven't been hitting it bad; I just haven't been scoring.  
  
  Q. Tell me your emotions. It seems that you're going to be on the first page of the leaderboard at least tomorrow to be in the mix to win a championship again.   
 JOHN DALY: I think the golf course is so hard, you just kind of forget about that. You take one shot, one hole at a time because any hole -- like yesterday on 18, I made it 2-under par, and I hit driver and tried to hit an 8-iron and lay it up in the rough and I made a 7.   
 So any hole any time can get you out here. So I think playing this golf course is all I can do.  
  
  Q. You're not thinking about winning this?   
 JOHN DALY: It would be nice, but like you said, it's so hard you're thinking more about the golf course. But, yeah, it would be great of course. I just know it's not where you can say, okay, that's six holes. I screw up a little bit and I can make eagle on that. You can't do that out here. Every hole is just too hard.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT