JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 21, 2010
John Daly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Last week on Saturday, you had a lot of good shots. Lot of good things happening with your golf swing right now. 
 JOHN DALY: Yeah, I've been hitting the ball pretty decent for me. Managed to get 18 holes in today. I'm close. 
 Today without a bogey is a good sign. I know the course isn't the hardest we apply all year, but still you got to hit golf shots out here. The pin placements weren't the easiest. 
 I just got to keep grinding. This is probably my last tournament this year. Hopefully something good can happen. 

 Q. There are some places out here you don't want to go. You're doing a lot of good things. What's the best thing going on in your golf game right now?
 JOHN DALY: I'm just hitting solid shots again. I think these last four weeks, I haven't played all that great. I've had opportunities. But it's actually getting my swing finally without any pain. This last month has been really good for the golf swing. Short game is coming around. I wish the season was starting right now because I've gotten used to the V groove wedges. The V groove is a little better. Starting to come around where some positive things can happen. Going to be hard to tie it all into one week now. 

 Q. Keep it going, you're swinging right now. 
 JOHN DALY: I need a Rocco week. 

 Q. That was great. 
 JOHN DALY: That was great to see that happen. I don't think I've made four shots total in the 21 years out here that I can remember. It's just amazing. 
 It gives us hope. I'm happy for him. 

 Q. Talk about being in the Las Vegas tournament, where does it rank? 
 JOHN DALY: Yeah, it's a tournament that I've always played in, no matter what, where I was, if I won a major, won a tournament, I love coming out here. 
 Me and Justin are pretty good friends so it's great that he's the host. As long as they want me here, I'll always come back, no matter what kind of year I have. 

 Q. For you personally, the temptations on the strip, tough for you to stay away from that? 
 JOHN DALY: No, it's not as bad. It's not that tough for me anymore. I used to get so excited to come and gamble, have fun, not worry about the golf. 
 But the golf's a little more important now. I'm kind of just concentrating on that. I'm staying at a great casino. I just haven't been down there playing at all, I've been so concentrated on golf. You get down there, get on a little roll. If you don't get on a roll, next thing you look up, it's 4 or 5 o'clock in the morning. Oh, God, I'll miss my tee time. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT