THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 16, 2009
John Daly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOHN DALY: No, it's just a struggle. The golf course is hard, even on a day like today. And I hate to see how it's going to play when the wind blows. But I was happy with the way I played, especially off the tee today. I only used two drivers, hit my hybrid 1-iron real well today.

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 JOHN DALY: That and, you know, I've always been a guy if I can hit it eight or nine times in a round I'm okay with it, but when you only hit it twice you can't get in a rhythm. And I felt like the hybrid is going far enough that I hit 1-iron hybrid on 17 and hit 4-iron in. I bent it to a 12-degree, which prevented it from going left as much, and that's pretty much the driver this week. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 JOHN DALY: Yeah, practise is starting to pay off a little bit. I've been hurt for three weeks and it hasn't helped. The guys have been working on me pretty hard in the physio here, and they do a great job just trying to get my back to play. It's just great to -- it felt good today.

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 JOHN DALY: Oh, yeah. They said it hit the hole. It could have gone in, you mean? Why did you tell me that? No, I was happy to make 3 there, trust me. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 JOHN DALY: Yeah, she's keeping me in place. We're a good team. We've done a lot of things with my company together. And Rick Smith has been a blessing; he's helped me an awful lot. And I think for me it's just keep doing what I'm doing and just try to hold on to the patience, because that's been my downfall over the years. And this is one course that it requires a lot of patience.

 Q. (Question regarding the galleries.)
 JOHN DALY: Yeah, they were great. Yeah, they were great. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 JOHN DALY: Oh, yeah, there's no doubt. You see people -- a lot of the fans are wearing the Loud Mouth pants now, and it's pretty cool.

 Q. What do you think it is about this tournament, a lot of guys that won here before and some of the older guys on Tour are really playing well today. You see Watson out there, O'Meara, Calc. What is it about this tournament that allows the older guys to play well?
 JOHN DALY: You know, I don't know. But I watched Watson's shot, every shot this morning, and it was just awesome seeing him shoot 65 today. I think every player out here -- he's so easy to pull for. 
 I don't know. I mean, it's one of those golf god days where the past champions all played pretty good. And I hope it continues, you know? But you can't really explain it, you know. 
 It's the best first round I've played since probably '95. It's just a good day for the past champions.

 Q. What was it like to see your name on the leaderboard at a major? 
 JOHN DALY: It was nice. I had a good opportunity. At 18 I just -- I would have loved to finish at 3-under. But you shoot under par on the first round of the Open, in any major, at least you've got a chance to hang in there, and it's just a matter of being patient and hope to go out and do the same thing tomorrow.

 Q. Did you bend the hybrid specifically for this tournament? 
 JOHN DALY: Yeah. Yeah, it's normally a 14 and we bent it to 12. I tried 3-wood and it just didn't work out too well, so we built a whole new one yesterday.

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 JOHN DALY: Brian Beatty from Adams. I cut the shaft about an inch, shortened the shaft an inch and took less loft just to get the shaft a little stiffer to hit it straighter.

 Q. Did you have enough confidence in it going out today? 
 JOHN DALY: I hit about 200 balls on the range with it yesterday and fell in love with it. And my 2-iron hybrid is really good, so we kind of went off that. It's going a lot further than I thought I was hitting it on the range, that's for sure. But it's about the only club to hit pretty much on all the holes, because driver just doesn't come into play on too many of them.

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 JOHN DALY: I had 252. I had 220 to the front downwind, so we just ripped a 4-iron.

 Q. Are you playing Adams clubs throughout your bag? 
 JOHN DALY: I've got all Adams and the Heavy putter and three Cleveland wedges.

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 JOHN DALY: No, I just want to go out in the morning and hopefully just keep doing what I'm doing. There's a lot of tee balls we hit absolutely perfect out there that five feet could be disaster. The course just never gives you anything. There's no sigh of relief on any hole. 
 Even the par-5s, you don't hit the fairway, you can't get to them. Every shot is just -- you're just kind of hoping a lot. And all I'm trying to do is take as many bunkers out of play as I possibly can off the tee, because there's always one or two that's still in play.

 Q. When you said they're working on your back, what exactly are they doing for it? 
 JOHN DALY: Right now it's just stretching more than anything. If they rub on it anymore I'm going to feel like a piece of gingerbread. I mean, it's just sore. But at least it's getting me through the ball. 
 The last three weeks have been pretty tough. They called it a sprained rib head, which I've never heard of. When I called my doctor, he said, athletes get it a lot; a lot of people you just roll over in bed and you get it. It's just a weird injury, and it's one of those if you keep doing what I'm doing, it just keeps reinjuring itself. But I've just got to keep it loose.

 Q. As someone involved in business, are you feeling the recession this year or are you feeling positive about it?
 JOHN DALY: I'm like in the recession like everyone else, man; it's brutal. And Obama is not doing much better, and I don't think he will. It's just the way it is. It's the way all over the world right now. It's tough. And hopefully we will all just get through it somehow.

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 JOHN DALY: I hope. It needs to, because -- no, a lot of my stuff is doing great. We've got the gloves out again, and we just did the deal with Gripmaster. The guys out of Australia got a great grip. All Sport came out with a drink that there's no carbohydrates, no sugar, so we're going to hopefully get those in hospitals mainly for diabetic people, most of those drinks that are for diabetics are really awful. This would be a great drink for them, this new All Sport Natural Zero. 
 We're having fun with the stuff I'm doing. I don't have any guaranteed money on the deals, it's all royalties, like the belt deal with Drew, and Simon playing the European Tour, it's his company and his partner. We're just having fun with it. It's nice to start ground up and get something going, being a part of it more than just using it, you know? 

 Q. Will you be playing in Europe this year after this week? 
 JOHN DALY: No, I'm playing Canada, Flint, PGA and Greensboro, and then during the FedEx, unless a miracle happens, I'll probably come back over here. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT