DIAMOND RESORTS INVITATIONAL
January 12, 2017
John Daly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. John, as an NFL fan, what do you think of the San Diego Chargers' move to Los Angeles?   
JOHN DALY: I compare it to the Lakers and the Clippers being in the same division and being in the same town. I think it's strictly a business decision. They've been trying to get a new stadium built in San Diego, and they haven't been able to get it done. It looks like L.A.'s willing to do that for them. So I look at it strictly as a business decision. It's like other teams moving. The Oakland Raiders have moved before, and they moved again. But I think it's going to be very good for Los Angeles.   
   
 Q. John, why did you decide to play here at the Diamond Resorts Invitational?   
JOHN DALY: I came here to play because of my good friend John Cook, who plays on the Champions Tour. We've been friends for a long time, and he's been the kind of guy that can tell me to straighten up a little bit, and I've always trusted him. I'm here this week to have a good time. It's going to be a fun event. It's great seeing all these guys here.   
I'm a guy that who would have known when I started that some of my good friends would turn out to be Joe Pesci, Sylvester Stallone, and a lot of other famous guys. This is a great event. It's going to be a lot of fun to play here, and I'm looking forward to it.   
As far as my chances, I haven't been playing a lot lately. So I'm going to do the best I can, but if I don't win, I'm okay with that. I'm getting ready for the Champions Tour and playing more on the Champions Tour this year.   
   
 Q. Regarding the Champions Tour, do you expect to contend regularly this year?   
JOHN DALY: Well, I haven't played a lot, and you have to play back to back a few weeks in a row to get your rhythm. Last year I got a little tired. I played like 13 weeks in a row. So I'm looking forward to going over to Hawaii next week. It's a real honor to be invited to that tournament. Looking forward to playing there, doing a lot of practicing, getting my game in shape, and having a good year.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT