UBS HONG KONG OPEN
November 23, 2008
John Daly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Please tell us how good that was.   
 JOHN DALY: It was pretty solid. I made a couple of really good par saves but other than that, my wedges were a little better today. Ian was so gracious to bend some of my clubs this morning. I couldn't figure out why my long irons were toeing so bad, and so we bent them and everything just felt pretty good today.  
  
  Q. Better than solid, isn't it? I know you've had a good couple of rounds of 66 recently but to shoot like that must be pleasing.   
 JOHN DALY: Yeah, on not-an-easy golf course off the tee; if you hit the fairways, you can get it going.   
 No, I'm very pleased. I wasn't expecting this much this week, and to shoot probably one of my best rounds in three years, I'm pretty happy with it.  
  
  Q. You said earlier this week that it's hard to find the rhythm because of not playing many tournaments week-in and week-out, so does it help playing four rounds like that in succession?  
 JOHN DALY: Well, any time you get to play on the weekend, whether you play good or bad, at least you can work on something and you're in competitive golf.   
 Go down to Australia, going to play two more. I can't remember the last time I had three weeks in a row that I could play, and that's probably why I'm hoping to get a lot of invites on The European Tour and play four, five, six in a row, and that's the only way I can play good golf.  
  
  Q. Take it you're looking forward to that Australian trip?  
 JOHN DALY: I am. I've always loved it. The people are great. I love the golf course at Huntingdale. Coolum is a little different for me, a lot of irons off the tee, but they are both great golf courses, and the greens are really, really fast.  
 It will be a little different than coming off of bermuda to bent, but I love it down there.   
  
  Q. So what is the plan from here, have an evening in Hong Kong and then get down there as quick as possible?   
 JOHN DALY: Yeah, I'm flying out tonight down there. I have not seen Lloyd Williams in a long time. He used to own the Crown there and he's got a beautiful golf course so I'll probably go out there tomorrow and see him and hang out with him for a little bit.   
  
  Q. How would you sum up your trip to Hong Kong after this final round?   
 JOHN DALY: Yeah, it was a good week for me. Shooting 73 and coming back with 62, I feel really, really good about it. I knew I shot myself out of the tournament yesterday, but I really didn't play that bad. I just had a couple bad swings and a couple flyers that cost me three or four shots. Other than that, I'm very pleased and hit the ball pretty decent this week.  
  
  Q. You mentioned earlier on this week, the support you get from the crowds bring outs out the best in you; how was it today?   
 JOHN DALY: Yeah, it was great. I wasn't planning on having this many people following me at 8.45, but the fans are great wherever I go. Like I said, hopefully if I can play in enough tournaments and stay healthy, hopefully some good things will happen.  
  
  Q. So you're feeling very confident going into the Australian Masters?  
 JOHN DALY: I wouldn't say confident. I feel better, anyway.   
 I like the way I'm hitting the golf ball. I've still got to work on the wedges a little bit. The greens will be very severe there, very fast and speed is going to be a big thing next week.   
  
  Q. You've had your up-and-downs. What does it mean to shoot a round like that? Does it show that you can still play the game at the top level?  
 JOHN DALY: Somewhat. It just makes you feel good; to have a number like that and go out -- I don't know what place I was in going into today. I know it wasn't great, but hopefully get a Top-10 out of it. I haven't had one of those in a long time, so, yeah, it feels really, really good and feels like, yeah, maybe I still can play aggressive.  
  
  Q. Going down to Australia, how does this compare to playing there a few years ago?  
 JOHN DALY: That was one of those things that I screwed up. My mom had passed away that week and I wasn't going to play and I let somebody talk me into going down there and playing, and I shouldn't have been there. It was my fault; I shouldn't have done it. Hey, it is what it is, and I'm looking forward to going there and hopefully playing well.  
  
  Q. This could be the springboard for a good start for you.   
 JOHN DALY: I'm just kind of glad, I think I've made more money for the '09 European Tour on this trip than I did all year last year on our tour. I think arrive come from close to -- coming from ground zero all the way back up. But, who knows. I've just got to keep working at it. Being healthy helps.   
  
  Q. Are you feeling recovered from the operation?  
 JOHN DALY: Yeah, the shoulder's been great and the rib has been great. Now I just want to play.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT