NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 14, 2008
John Daly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOHN DALY:  Wind really picked up on the back nine and made it play a lot tougher, but it's nice to finally get off to a decent start.   
  
  Q.  Especially you take away, hey, you're right there in the lead.   
 JOHN DALY:  Well, eight, nine, 8 was probably a good number because I really hit a bad 3-wood off the tee.  I like the way I've had to shorten my swing and it's starting to come around a little bit and I'm starting to play a little better.   
 I hit a really good 6-iron on 8, just caught the tree.  Otherwise it would have been really nice and got to the font and rolled up.  It just caught the free a little bit.   
  
  Q.  You're under the weather a little bit?   
 JOHN DALY:  Yeah, me and my caddie both got the flu.  The last two days have been brutal.   
  
  Q.  Kevin Na is sick, as well; is there something about persevering when you're sick and playing decent golf?   
 JOHN DALY:  Just thank God [] foresee People's Exhibit.  [] I played in the Pro-Am walking down six yesterday and my leg just got really weak and tournament organizers got me some.   
  
  Q.  Does that mean you're celebrating Valentine's Day with a nice glass of water and sleep?   
 JOHN DALY:  Exactly.   
  
  Q.  Z peck is not covered under the drug testing policy --   
 JOHN DALY:  I don't care.  (Laughter).   
  
  Q.  You mentioned about getting off to quick starts, you've been unable to do that, does it make a difference in the way you play, getting off to a great start?   
 JOHN DALY:  You get some confidence, made a good putt on 1 and made a really good birdie on 3 and then 5.  You know, you get off to a start like that, and you feel like you can feed off it for the rest of the day with confidence and shots towards the green.   
  
  Q.  Have you found something in your putting?  You were talking at the Hope you didn't make a whole lot.   
 JOHN DALY:  Yeah, I added half an inch of shaft to the putter so I could get up more with the ball a little bit and help me with the shorter putts.  Butch wants me to shorten my stroke, so added some length, figured it makes it a lot easier to do that.   
  
  Q.  When is the last time you saw him?   
 JOHN DALY:  Just before Pebble.  Yeah, we work pretty good.  Certainly the swing has been the tough thing because of the wind.   
  
  Q.  How much of a commitment is it, working with a coach like him?  I know he demands a lot.   
 JOHN DALY:  Yeah, that's what's great about it.  When you have a coach like that, you have to go see him.  He doesn't come see you, unless it's majors or World Golf Championships.  It's your time with him and it's his time with you, so there's no distractions.  He doesn't allow too many people around, maybe a caddie to learn what we're doing.  No, it's all serious and I love Butch Harmon.   
  
  Q.  How long were your sessions when you saw him?   
 JOHN DALY:  About five, six hours.   
  
  Q.  What was your conversation about changing your time with Phil in the Pro-Am, was that a difficult decision for you?   
 JOHN DALY:  No, no, I'm glad he got ahold of me because I was still laying around and I wasn't feeling very good.  I guess his plane didn't get in because of fog and I said, that's great, because an hour earlier for me, I can catch the Willie Nelson concert last night.   
  
  Q.  We're coming up on a year, close to it, anyway, with the Honda thing, do you think you're healed now or what's going on now?   
 JOHN DALY:  Yeah, the muscle, just every time I try and fully swing and follow through, the muscle would pop out.  In Pebble, that's the best it's ever felt, because all the way down, he's finally got it to where it pops down from my neck to my buttocks where the whole vertebrae just popped and I could get back in.   
 Still, I'm scared to really go at it.  I'm scared to take the club all the way back because the muscle is still there, but at least I can shorten the swing and the follow through.   
  
  Q.  There was a rumor or something that you were thinking about a lawsuit and I never heard big from you.  Was there any proof to that?   
 JOHN DALY:  Yeah, there was, but I'm not going after the tournament.  On the golf course is where it happened.  And the process of getting all the information together doesn't mean I'm going to do it but I might -- (indiscernible) -- my sponsorships and my career for almost a year.  It's a tough decision.  I'm about 50/50 on it right now.  But we're getting information and nor would I go after Barbara's charity nor would I go after Jack or nor would I go after the tournament.  It would be the golf course where it happened.   
  
  Q.  You mentioned sponsorships, how did negotiations go --   
 JOHN DALY:  I've lost pretty much hooters and 84 LUMBER and I've got small deals with TaylorMade but not like what I had.  Top-125, if I'd stayed in it, all of those sponsorships are still there.  But I withdrew from 12 tournaments last year because of being injured.  And you have sponsors down your throat saying you have to play in 20 events and you're hurt and having to withdraw from tournaments -- I didn't want to do it.  You know, when you're hurt, you're hurt.   
  
  Q.  Is that what happened in Phoenix, too?  You didn't get an invite there.  Do you think that cost you, too?   
 JOHN DALY:  I think so.  I mean, I didn't play good in Phoenix the last two years -- but last year, my wife was in prison and I'm going, okay, what about the last 15 years, I've done everything they have ever wanted me to do.  I would have wanted to play in Phoenix and Pebble, because I can't play Poppy Hills, but I've had good success in Phoenix.  I was upset the FBR got ripped for not having me when it was the Thunderirds that made the decision.  And they called my agent and were very upset that I didn't get in.  The Thunderirds make all the decisions.   
  
  Q.  How does Hooters drop you?  You built Hooters.   
 JOHN DALY:  I think they might be selling to one of the companies -- I would love to be with Hooters.  I think it's a great fit.  Still want to be with 84 LUMBER but the market is so bad for home builders.  The economy is killing a lot of people, especially home builders.  I know it was a tough decision to drop me, but I think if I would have been able to play and played better.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT