FRY'S ELECTRONICS OPEN
October 18, 2007
John Daly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Pretty quiet the whole way around, especially when you started.   
 JOHN DALY:  Yeah, 6:50.  I don't think I saw roosters.   
  
  Q.  How is your game right now?   
 JOHN DALY:  It's good.  Just not scoring.  Fairways are a little high and caught a couple flyers today that kind of hurt me.  I started off pretty bad but came back with a birdie on two.  Just so close to playing so good, and it's 70, 71, 72, 73, 74 it seems like every round and it could be two or three shots even better of the just can't seem to get that, you know, four good days.   
 And today should have been easily under par and I 3-putted 17, had a couple 3-putts, and a couple bad breaks in the fairway, kind of hurt, too.   
  
  Q.  Is that the way it's been all year?   
 JOHN DALY:  Pretty much.  Scores have not been all that bad but just one or two shots from being really good.   
  
  Q.  Any one thing that needs to get fixed?   
 JOHN DALY:  No, I can't think of anything I need to work on.  I'm hitting it good, chipping it good.  It's just a couple bad breaks here and there that could go the other way, just pretty much every round it seems like.  Just got to keep on plugging and keep on fighting.  That's all I can do.   
  
  Q.  Are you playing the last two events?   
 JOHN DALY:  I played last week but I don't know -- I know I can't play next week, this is seven in a row and that's the most I've played in ten years.  I've tried my damnedest to get my card back and hopefully get my exemptions next year.  It will be a better year next year, I know it will.   
  
  Q.  Do you have to hit a certain number for the TaylorMade contract to kick in?   
 JOHN DALY:  All of my contracts, I have plenty of tournaments.  I mean, I already hit that five or six tournaments ago.  It's always right around 19, 20, something like that.   
  
  Q.  So next year you'll be on exemptions, you think you'll get a lot of invitations?   
 JOHN DALY:  I'm hoping.  Especially after the start of the year, I've played good in Hawaii; San Diego, past champion; I hope I play in the Hope.   
 And I love the FBR.  The last three years have been unbelievable.  I've either been hurt or sick, and that's a great golf course for me.  I hope I can get in that one, too.   
  
  Q.  Have tournaments told you they want to have you back next January?   
 JOHN DALY:  Yeah, some of them have.  I'd love to come back.  I'd love to get that exemption right now.  I love it here.   
  
  Q.  They are expecting 200,000 on Saturday because of the Super Bowl year.   
 JOHN DALY:  Yeah, I can imagine.  That would be great.  They do such a good job, they raise so much money for charity and it's just an awesome event.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT