U.S. SENIOR OPEN
August 11, 2016
John Daly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  [ No microphone ].  
JOHN DALY: No, I struggled on 8.  I actually hit the ball decent today.  I made a few putts, but nothing special.  It was cool to play pretty much 16 holes bogey-free, you know.  But that 8th hole is a tough hole.  It's kind of built for a par 5.  It's just a very tough hole.  Just kind of yanked a 6 iron out of the rough left in the water, but other than that, it was pretty solid.   
 Q.  What sort of troubles did you have getting here?  
JOHN DALY: I got Delta'd like everybody else.  That's what we're calling it.  I figure I'd drive my bus back home to Arkansas because Wednesday I couldn't get anything -- or Tuesday I couldn't get anything on Delta.  So I took Southwest, which they're always reliable.  So it was easy to get here Wednesday.   
 Q.  How did that affect you?  You didn't get to see the whole course, right?  
JOHN DALY: Yeah, but Bambi walked it a few times.  It's always nice to see it once, but I was comfortable.  He made it comfortable and knew exactly what to hit off of each tee.  It was just a matter of execution today.   
Except for a couple of bad drives, everything was pretty solid today, hit a lot of fairways.   
 Q.  At any point, did it look like -- were you worried about getting here, period, to play?  Or was it looking that close?  
JOHN DALY: No, I mean, the thing is it would have been -- luckily, there wasn't a Pro-Am in this.  So even if it went to Wednesday, I could have just driven up.  There's too many airlines that you can get, but just trying -- you have your ticket, think they're going to get it fixed in time, and then you just kind of hold on a little bit.   
But it's amazing, it's the first time I've flown in the U.S. in I don't know when because I always take my bus, and here we go.  That's why I tend to like driving my bus everywhere.   
 Q.  Were your clubs already checked?  Did you have any problems getting them back?  
JOHN DALY: No, I didn't get a chance to check.  My flight was cancelled out of Minnesota.  I was supposed to leave at 1:30.  Now, I know my buddy, Michael Allen, out of here, he had a 9:20 one, and I don't think he made it.  It's just kind of one of those things, you know.   
 Q.  You drove back from there?  
JOHN DALY: No.  I drove home to Arkansas and then took a flight out of Little Rock.   
 Q.  How many gloves did you go through today?  
JOHN DALY: Three.   
 Q.  Was it unbelievable?  
JOHN DALY: It's like Arkansas weather, Memphis area, down there, it's just a lot of humidity.  I'm used to it.  I'm so used to putting it in my back pocket and just made it sweat more.  I started wrapping it around the club, and at least I got through the last eight holes with one glove.   
It's pretty humid, but I enjoy it.  It's good for my bones.   
 Q.  John, what did you think of the course?  
JOHN DALY: Great golf course, really good.  I guess that's why they say it's one of the ones in the top hundred.  It's good.  I know we're not tipping it fully, but we're playing it pretty long.  We're not all the way in the back on a couple of holes, but it's a great golf course.   
 Q.  Did you notice any of the memorabilia in the clubhouse?  There is a lot of history especially with Jack Nicklaus being at home, this is the course he grew up on?  
JOHN DALY: I haven't really looked yet.  I just been kind of getting organized soon.  Yeah, I knew this is where Jack kind of started playing.  No wonder he's so damn good.  This golf course isn't that easy.  You can see by the scores.  Any time you grow up on a course that's pretty tough, it makes you play better.   
 Q.  You're talking about that stretch of holes where you didn't have a bogey.  It was a long -- you had a bunch of pars.  Didn't you have 11 pars in a row?  
JOHN DALY: Yeah.   
 Q.  That's a pretty good stretch on this course.  
JOHN DALY: Yeah.  And I made a few 5 and 6-footers for pars as well, which helped.  I had not been putting very good.  I got a little more upright on the putter and shortened the stroke a little bit on the shorter ones.  And they're kind of going in, but they're not -- it's not confident yet.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT