BUICK OPEN
June 28, 2007
John Daly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOHN DALY: It putts a little more pressure on you, but it played about 182 yards today.  You've got to hit a good shot, especially in the afternoon. 

 Q.  What does the hole look like, for people who have never seen it?  It plays about 200 on the scorecard, right? 
 JOHN DALY: Like I said, you have to hit a good shot.  You have to hit a good shot. 

 Q.  Walking from 16 to 17 tee, are you thinking about it, all these people are waiting? 
 JOHN DALY: Not too much.  If you're in the hunt you think about it more than when you're not in the hunt.  So it can get a little nerve racking,  but hey, I love a rowdy crowd. 

 Q.  What's the key to the hole? 
 JOHN DALY:  You just have to keep it below the hole when you hit your tee shot.  The greens weren't too, too fast today.  They were rolling great.  But you get above some of the holes out here, especially that hole, can putt it off the green. 

 Q.  How good are you feeling right now after putting a good first round in?  I know you didn't like the way you finished, but who does, finishing with a bogey, but still you got off to a great start.  You have to feel good through round one? 
 JOHN DALY:  I'm making some birdies, to go ahead and release the club a little bit.  A couple of bad drives today, but I'd just like to get in a rhythm and start playing some golf.  I'd like to go three or four in a row.  Tiger didn't give me a spot next week, which really hurts, because I was going to go five in a row and try to get in a rhythm and play some golf.  That kind of hurts.  I've got to play competitive golf and keep on going and play. 

 Q.  Talk about your round today, John. 
 JOHN DALY:  I hit it solid today.  A couple of bad drives on 16 and 18.  I left a lot out there and made a couple.  It was kind of neat to get off to a decent start. 

 Q.  With Tiger not being here, you had a pretty good crowd following guys. 
 JOHN DALY:  It was great.  It was amazing these people showed up at 7:00 in the morning to watch us tee off.  The fans are great here.  They've always been good here.  It's a great golf course to watch golf, and it's a golf course that the fans actually finally get to see a lot of birdies being made by all the players. 
 If you hit the ball straight here, you can play pretty good.  The greens are actually perfect.  I didn't make a lot of putts, but that's what's cool about it, the fans like to see a lot of birdies and we don't get to play a traditional golf course like this too much. 

 Q.  Talk about your 7:00 tee time. 
 JOHN DALY: It's not easy, especially if you get over 40, you don't want to get up that early anyway.  It's all right, the weather was perfect, and I got me about eight hours of sleep last night so I was ready to play. 

 Q.  What will you do for the rest of day?  Work on your game?  Go back to the hotel get some sleep? 
 JOHN DALY: No, I'm going into Kid Rock's studio and watch him finish his album.  It's been great staying with him this week.  It's been real peaceful.  He is a laid back guy and we've just been hanging out, talking.  I've been listening to his knew album.  It's unbelievable. 

 Q.  Any highlights? 
 JOHN DALY: I don't know if he wants me to tell anything, but he's got one hell of a country song that's on the album.  All the sons are really good.  It's really cool.  He puts his heart and soul into his music like we do our golf.  It's neat to watch him work in the studio. 

 Q.  How far back does your friendship go with him? 
 JOHN DALY: About seven years ago he was doing a concert in Memphis and we just hit it off ever since then. 

 Q.  (Inaudible). 
 JOHN DALY:  I just yelled in one of them.  That's all I did.  But no, he does his own thing.  It's just cool to watch him. 

 Q.  You play guitar, don't you? 
 JOHN DALY: Yes, but I'm not that good.  It's a hobby.  Kid is a lot better golfer than I am guitar player, I promise you. 

 Q.  Do you do background vocals? 
 JOHN DALY:  We just did something on the country song, me and the producer and Marlin, who does all the guitar on his album, it's kind of cool. 

 Q.  Do you get credit on the album? 
 JOHN DALY:  I told him I don't want credit. 

 Q.  Is he going to come out and watch you play tomorrow? 
 JOHN DALY:  No, he's wrapping this up.  He has three or four more songs and it takes him two or three days to do one song. 

 Q.  (Inaudible). 
 JOHN DALY: It's really neat.  My album was nothing near as serious as that.  He has fun, don't get me wrong, but it takes a lot of time.  I mean, with all the stuff that goes on to do an album, you have all these mixes and all this stuff to go back and forth.  He might do one word in a song, he might do a line in a song or he might do a whole chorus in a song.  It takes a lot of time to do it.  It's cool. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT