TARGET WORLD CHALLENGE
December 14, 2006
John Daly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 JOHN DALY: Front nine was great. The back nine looked like a jigsaw  puzzle. No, I just got off to a rough  start on the back. I bogeyed 10. I was real solid on the front, made three  birdies and had it going, looked up on a chip on 10, made a great 5 there, made  a good birdie on 11, actually made a good double on 12, made a good birdie on  13, made a good birdie on 14, good birdie on 16 and a stupid bogey on 17 and  parred 18. 

 Q.  (Inaudible.)
 JOHN DALY: Nothing was really great about it. The rough around the greens is spotty so the  ball just sits in these holes. I was in  the deep stuff and tried to hit a flop and it just bladed into the bunker and  of course I had nothing, so I just hit a bunker shot and took my 40-footer and  made a good two-putt from there.

 Q.  What word would you use to describe your year this year?
 JOHN DALY: You know, business-wise for me it's been  great, but just the injuries killed me this year. That stretch kind of in June or July and my  back when I had that sciatic nerve for like six or seven weeks, tried to play  and couldn't play, that cost me six, seven, eight tournaments. 
 Later in the year my pinkie broke  and I missed three or four of the last tournaments with that, too. Just been a year with a lot of injuries. 

 Q.  (Inaudible.)
 JOHN DALY: I thought about it but there's only been two  tournaments, and all my sponsors are great, they're cool with everything. Knowing that I'm getting the exemptions that  I've already gotten so far, just about everything on the West Coast, right now  I think I've got 19 to 20 exemptions for next year, so it's like playing a full  year anyway. No reason for it, no.

 Q.  Are you the least bit worried when you sent out to ask for exemptions,  and how did it make you feel to have so many of them stacked up so early?
 JOHN DALY: It's great.  I've done a lot for a lot of tournaments, but there's some I haven't  played in a while, like Sony. They  didn't really have to give me one and they did, and that's why I want to go  play. 
 That was nice of them. It's just a tough tournament to get to if  you're not in the Mercedes. It's great  to go there for two weeks, but they came back and said, yeah, we're going to  give you one, and I said I need to play there. 
 If I get 30 exemptions, there's no  way I'd be able to play all of them, but I'm definitely sure going to try to  play most of them.

 Q.  Did you send out letters to just about everybody?
 JOHN DALY: Every tournament, yeah, except the ones I  know I'm not in, the World Championships, PLAYERS and then Matches and the U.S.  Open. I'm already in the PGA and  British.

 Q.  Did you send them to the invitationals? 
 JOHN DALY: Colonial, Bay Hill, Memorial.

 Q.  What happened this year? 
 JOHN DALY: Injuries more than anything. I just never could -- the West Coast usually  is okay for me, usually gets me going, and I wasn't hurt on the West Coast, I  just played horrible. And then it just  never got any better and then I got hurt.  The sciatic nerve, that hurt and I couldn't play. When I tried to play it was just awful. 
 It was just one thing after  another. I just really wasn't able to do  the things I needed to do to play well because I was hurting most of the year.

 Q.  Was that a gradual thing, you started building up pain on pain?
 JOHN DALY: Well, it was just before I think the Memphis tournament. I tried to play -- I played the first day in Memphis, couldn't even bend over, then I  had to withdraw from there. Then I went  up to Memorial. The guys in the Tour  trailer were great. They were trying to  get it fixed. After the first day at  Memorial, I get on the range and I couldn't even swing. There was another three or four weeks gone  right there that I couldn't play.
 And tournaments that I usually have  a chance to play really well in or feel confident I know them so well, just not  being able to play those tournaments, whether it's $50,000 I made or $100,000,  it helps. I just never could do  that. I never had a chance to play well. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 JOHN DALY: Yeah, my kids, my boys are here, and Sherrie  is here, so we're having a good time. 

 Q.  (Inaudible.)
 JOHN DALY: Yeah, I mean, we're working it out. We love each other very much. We love each other just a little more than we  hate each other, just like the book. We're  trying to work things out. I think we  will. 

 Q.  Another large gallery today. Your  thoughts on why people gravitate towards you and the support you get from the  fans. Talk about that a little bit. 
 JOHN DALY: I don't know, I think people can relate to  some of the things that have gone on in my life. Everybody has ups and downs in life, and I  think a lot of them can relate. It's  great to have them because I'll tell you, when things aren't going good, you  just want to try your best and they motivate me to keep going. The fans have been great for the 16 years  I've been out here, and it was an awful year this year but hopefully next year  I'll be able to play better for them. 

 Q.  What did you do to your back earlier this week? You mentioned you tweaked it at something. 
 JOHN DALY: Yeah, that's one thing me and Sherrie have  really got to talk about, her packing. We're  gone for seven days. The bus is just an  hour and a half from here. We couldn't  park it in here this week, so Mark Christopher, they give me a Tahoe to drive  over, and I'm loading, and my bag, which is very light, and I pick up Sherrie's  and I just hurt it go, kkkkkrrrrrr. It  hurts. It's on the left side, which at  least I can swing. If it was on the  right side, it would be like earlier this year.  It's not that sciatic nerve where you can't breathe. It's just sore, like a pulled muscle.

 Q.  What sort of things are you having to do? Have you taken up yoga or done anything to  try and keep that back healthy?
 JOHN DALY: No, I don't eat yogurt or do yoga  (laughter). Yoga is not in my  repertoire.

 Q.  When you got the invitation here, a chance to play after a tough year, I  guess that excited you a little bit just coming back? 
 JOHN DALY: Well, it's great. I love the Target people. They've got some of my lion clubs in there  and I've done some good business with them.  It was great that Tiger invited me to play. I'm like 156th in the world, I didn't keep my  card and they let me in this tournament, so it feels really good that he did  that. I was supposed to play last year  when I had a pretty decent year and my hand broke and I couldn't play. 
 Like I say, I want to thank Target  and Tiger for letting me play because some good things might happen this week  that hopefully I can build on in '07.

 Q.  Just curious, with Monty today, how was that, and did the Ryder Cup come  up at all?
 JOHN DALY: It did.  It's unbelievable talking to him about it. He was saying how passionate their team is to  win that. But another interesting thing  he said was about how the young kids in Europe coming up, they're not coming  out of a college getting $4 and $5 million contracts where they won't be as  hungry as some guys out of college, so the young players on the European team  are probably a little more hungrier because they've worked so hard. They didn't have anything. They had to work for it. Not saying our guys don't, but it's a lot  better coming out of college with a $5 million deal in place where you might be  able to feel a little more relaxed. 
 But passion he said is what was the  European team more than anything.

 Q.  Did he say anything like wish you were there, or glad you weren't?
 JOHN DALY: He said he was glad I wasn't. I don't know, that was really neat what he  said, that the guys on the European team were so passionate to win that, maybe  a little more than our guys had been.

 Q.  My point is do you feel like you should have been on one by now, whether  it was '91, '95?
 JOHN DALY: I felt '91 I really should have been on it,  but they changed -- the PGA of America changed it that the winner of the PGA  Championship usually got no matter what.  I've always played good the first year before the Ryder Cup and not so  good the second. 
 But I think it's great, the two  captains go at it on TV when they're announcing, they do funny things together,  they're good friends, and to have Paul Azinger and Nick Faldo as captains, I  think it's going to be a great Ryder Cup.

 Q.  Have you given up hope of being on a team?
 JOHN DALY: No, because I'm going to make Paul pick  me. I'm going to beat him up if he  doesn't pick me.

 Q.  If you would just give me a rundown on the bus, where is it? Are you going to take it back to Carlsbad or what's the status?
 JOHN DALY: Yeah, after a few more outings with Mark Christopher Auto Center, they've been a sponsor of mine for  the last 14 years, we do a lot of dates with those guys, they're great, go back  to Taylor Made and test some new stuff that's coming out. I've enjoyed it with Mark King and the  guys. It's fun going there, and Sports  Authority was there, and we launched -- Sports Authority is doing all of my  Maxfli stuff. To go in and sit at the  meetings with those guys, it's been really interesting to do that. 
 It's just fun to go there and hang  out with those guys. It's just one hell  of a company. The guys are so  great. They did a billion in golf sales  this year, which is kind of unheard of in a golf company the way golf has been,  the business side of it. So yeah, I'll  be taking the bus back there and hanging out here. 

 Q.  Where is it?
 JOHN DALY: It's out in Ontario where Mark Christopher is.

 Q.  Looks like you can pull your clubs out of the back of a car and shoot under  par. Is there anything you need to do  for the next year to be able to compete at the highest level and win again?
 JOHN DALY: I just need to work on it and hopefully stay  injury-free. '06 has been nothing but  injuries, and it's tough to play golf. You  know, you break your pinkie in football, they pop it back in, tape you up and  you go hit somebody. But in golf it's  just not that easy. The smallest  injuries to a golfer can cause us not to play, and that's kind of what's  happened all year long. 

 Q.  (Inaudible.)
 JOHN DALY: Well, the doctor who does all the razorback  guys and the ladies in sports there, he said it was probably broke for a long  time. I was playing with J.B. Holmes and  it was this pinkie here and I could literally turn the whole thing around. I thought he was going to throw up one  time. He said don't show it to him  again, so I kept showing it to him. 
 But he popped it back in. You could see -- you put your hand on this  plate and you could see where the bone was cracked. It was gross.  He was kind of feeling it a little bit, and next thing you know he went  kkkkkrrrrrrrr, and I said, hey, Doc, how about a warning next time? He popped it back in and it's stronger than  ever now.
 He said it was probably broke from a  long time ago. I had to change my grip  because the ligaments were torn in this part of my hand in Jackson, so I was  putting the club more up in this callus right here of the grip instead of where  I usually put it, just turned it, popped it and broke it. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT