DEUTSCHE BANK PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP OF EUROPE
July 26, 2006
John Daly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
SCOTT CROCKETT:  John, thanks very much for coming in, as always.  Welcome back to Germany.  We always welcome you here to Germany.  Last week at the Open a good week apart from the last hole.  Just reflect on your week at Hoylake.
JOHN DALY:  Yeah, I mean, I just got off to a really, really bad start both days, five back and got it to 2 under.  We had a 15 , 20 minute wait on 18.  18 never really set up for me, whether it was an iron or 3 wood or driver, so I figured I'd just try and hit driver left like all the other guys talked about in the locker room and stuff.  The wind was blowing out of the left.

I heeled it and hit it out of bounds.  I thought, that's all right, the cut is probably going to be 1 under.  I hit the 3 wood, toed it out of bounds again, so it's just one of those fluke things.

I haven't putted great this year, and I finally started to putt a lot better, made some key putts to get me back to 2 under.  You look at it as a positive thing, hitting the ball really well and putting better.  I've just got to bring it here.
Q.  It was an interesting week.  Tell us about the appearance at the Cavern Club nightclub.
JOHN DALY:  Yeah, you see the history of rock n roll sort of, home of the Beatles, and all the acts that have played there and the history behind it, the John Lennon wall, the tee shirt, the famous tee shirt.  They're going to put me a brick on the John Lennon wall and my name on the tee shirt.
SCOTT CROCKETT:  You were there to promote the book, which is going well.
JOHN DALY:  Yeah, the book is going well.  We introduced it to Europe, and now we've got to hit the Asian market pretty soon, too.
Q.  What's the performance of the book in the United States so far?  What's the reaction of the people in the community?
JOHN DALY:  It's been received pretty well.  I mean, it's been in the top    been on the bestseller list for this will be the 13th week in a row that we had it out, so it's doing real well.
Q.  Did you write very much by yourself, or was it your friend?
JOHN DALY:  Glen Waggoner, the writer    I was the author, I guess he's the writer.  He wrote it and we sat down and had 38 to 45 hours of talk to do the book.  So he wrote it in just the words that I put in his microphone.
SCOTT CROCKETT:  A lot of people doing an autobiography are tempted to leave bits out.  Were you tempted to do that or did you put everything in?
JOHN DALY:  I'm pretty sure I got everything in.
SCOTT CROCKETT:  Looking ahead to this week, the course here, are you looking forward to playing here?
JOHN DALY:  Yeah, it's a totally different golf course.  It was a monsoon last year, it was raining so much.  This year it's going to be harder to keep the ball in the fairway a little bit because the ball was kind of plugging a little bit last year.  Here you can hit a few of the fairways right in the middle of the fairway and it's going to end up in the rough because it's so dry.

And the greens are perfect again as they were last year.  It's going to play a lot shorter, but it's just like I said, the ball is going to roll a lot further.  The trouble was kind of out of the way last year because it was a little wet.

NICOLAI LAUDE:  It's probably better to hit the ball more out of other direction than to places in the semi rough next to the fairway because the rough is much deeper and much heavier, so they said probably the long hitters will have a major advantage this week, and that means you.
JOHN DALY:  Yeah, it just depends.  There isn't as much rough    there's hardly any compared to last year.  But still, it's a golf course that you've got to really think off the tee and you've got to hit it straight no matter where you play anymore, and it's a course where you've got to putt well.  I putted pretty good for like two rounds here last year but I hit the ball really well.  Hopefully we'll get the driver in play and hopefully take advantage of the par 5s and a couple assorted par 4s and make some putts.
Q.  Just a very important question.  Which of all those nicknames you have is your favorite?  What do you like most?
JOHN DALY:  "The Lion."
Q.  How was your preparation to handle with this weather?
JOHN DALY:  I'm used to it.  This is not that hot compared to where I'm from.  It's a lot hotter and more humid in Memphis, Tennessee, and Arkansas right now than here.
SCOTT CROCKETT:  Thank you, John.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT