BUICK INVITATIONAL
January 26, 2006
John Daly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  You started out birdie, birdie, birdie and you had it going.
JOHN DALY:  Yeah, I had the swings on the front and could have gotten it really low, but the back nine wasn't giving me much.  It played really tough on the back.

I hit the ball good.  I was pretty rusty.  Last week was the first week I had played.  I was real happy with the way I hit the ball today.
Q.  (Inaudible).
JOHN DALY:  Yeah, on the back nine it plays really long.  The greens are just real bumpy.  That poa is starting to come back.  It bounces a lot, so that's what makes it tough.  Playing was very tough.
Q.  Tough playing after Abu Dhabi?
JOHN DALY:  Yeah, that was a pretty long flight.  When we were in Abu Dhabi we had a wind that was so brutal we stopped in Budapest, London, Pittsburgh and then to Memphis and then here.
Q.  What's going on with your wife?
JOHN DALY:  She got into county jail.  Actually I talked to her yesterday.  They're going to put her in another one.  She'll be in for five months.
Q.  Did it come out of the blue for you?
JOHN DALY:  It was.  We tried to get the attorney to ask for two or three weeks.  He must not have kids.  He's not a very nice guy.  The judge was nice because he was going to have her go to Memphis.  But he said no, you go on to Lexington, and that way she stays in one place.  They were going to move her from Oklahoma to Atlanta and then to Lexington, so it's a pretty sad thing.
Q.  (Inaudible).
JOHN DALY:  Yeah, I mean, I don't know.  It actually was very emotional, all her friends.  She had some friends that took her there, which helped her a little bit.  Just out of the clear blue.  Usually you get two or three weeks.
Q.  (Inaudible).
JOHN DALY:  Well, I didn't have time to get there.  That was the tough thing.  I know just two or three weeks ago if I had known, I wouldn't be here.  I couldn't get there in time, so that's a very awkward spot, especially when you have kids.
Q.  How are they holding up?
JOHN DALY:  They're doing good.  I had Little John dropped off yesterday, and he had the option, Maggie Hardy said do you want to go up to 84 Lumber or do you want to go see Dad.  She would fly him anywhere he wanted to go.  He wanted to go to school tomorrow and then go to 84 Lumber for a few days, and said, "Dad, I'll let you know when I want to come see you."  He has such a great time with Debbie and Joe's kids, I can't blame him at all.
Q.  (Inaudible).
JOHN DALY:  I'll still play pretty much the same schedule.  I'm going to have Little John with me most of the time.  He has some great friends that will keep him going to school.  Luckily I have him in a good private school.  He's in kindergarten, but they said he can come out with me any time he wants to.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT