DEUTSCHE BANK PLAYERS' CHAMPIONSHIP OF EUROPE
July 23, 2005
John Daly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
RODDY WILLIAMS:  John, an 8 under 64, how easy was that out there today?
JOHN DALY:  It's never easy, but it was nice.  It was nice to have a few gimmies and took advantage of the par 5s; all four of them I had a chance to make eagles on today, and that makes your score a little better when you can do that.  Had a lot of short wedges into the greens and hit a lot of fairways today, which makes it even more pleasurable.
RODDY WILLIAMS:  First time you played this course, but obviously to your liking.
JOHN DALY:  Yeah, it is.  Unfortunately the problem with the putter yesterday I thought almost kept me out of the tournament but shooting 8 under today, I feel like I'm right back in it.  And the golf course, I love it, because it's kind of risk reward.  The fairways are somewhat wide enough where I can get my driver in play, and it's a lot better to hit shorter irons into these holes than it would be laying back a little further.
RODDY WILLIAMS:  So you're right back into the tournament now, 36 holes tomorrow, are you going to look forward to that one?
JOHN DALY:  Yeah, I'll be fine.  I'll put four or five extra packs of cigarettes in my bag and I'll be ready to go.
Q.  What happened with the putter overnight or this morning, were you able to change it or repair it?
JOHN DALY:  Well, I got some new ones, but unfortunately the grips are about    way too small and the shafts are a little weak, but I found a head that I liked.  And Bud, my agent, brought it over for the guy on the range to put a shaft in it, but it was still too weak, but luckily I didn't have to putt too much today.  I had a lot of gimmies today.
RODDY WILLIAMS:  Will you still be searching for another putter today?
JOHN DALY:  I think I've just got to put maybe a stronger shaft in, a stronger shaft and build the grip up a little bit.  The Dunlop heads are beautiful, but it was unfortunate yesterday, when you're playing in a lot of humidity in the States, those inserts will pop out sometimes and unfortunately that happened yesterday.  And in the Rules of Golf, it has to be significantly damaged, I'm not for sure the name of the rule, but it definitely came out and it definitely made a difference for us; the spin comes off the ball so much different.  That was frustrating hitting, the ball that good and not getting anything out of it.  I found one today, the head is nice, just have to work on the shaft a little bit.
Q.  You said you had a lot of gimmies, can you elaborate, were you hitting wedges in very close or what were they?
JOHN DALY:  Yeah, I think on the third hole I hit driver, 6 iron to about 20 feet and 2 putted there.

And then 6, I hit driver, a little cut 3 wood just on the back, chipped up to about three inches.

And then 8, I chipped in, which helps a lot.

11, I almost holed it, I was about two inches from the hole.  That was a driver, L wedge on 11.  It almost went in the hole.

13, that was the only putt I made all week outside of six feet, except 18, the second putt, I made about a 15 footer there.

Then 14, I hit a beautiful 4 iron to about fourth inches.

15, I chipped up to about two feet.

17, I chipped up to about two feet.

It's just one of those rounds that you dream of, you know, that you don't    I can't really say, couldn't have been any worse and I don't think it could have been any better.  This is one of my better ball striking rounds I've had in a long time.
Q.  With all of the weather problems they have had in the States this year, have you played 36 in one day before or have you had a similar sort of trudge around the golf course?
JOHN DALY:  We had a lot on the West Coast at the beginning of the year.  It seemed like every week it was either a hurricane or, you know, just fog or tons of rain or whatever.  It was a brutal West Coast for golf, and we're kind of used to it.  So hopefully, you know, tomorrow we get it all in.
RODDY WILLIAMS:  Thanks very much and good luck tomorrow.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT