THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
November 4, 2004
John Daly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.   What's it mean to be back here after a 13-year absence?  What does that say about your resilience?
JOHN DALY:  Oh, it feels great to be back.  It's been a long time.  You get rewards.  This is like a tournament that rewards you.  It's great to be here.
Q.  The galleries are a little more subdued than maybe you're used to?  They seem kind of quiet out there today.
JOHN DALY:  It's more the weather, it luckily held off, but usually when the weather is as bad as it was this morning, it probably kept a few people away.  I had a couple, few people calling the hogs.  We're in the State of Georgia, so hopefully they're okay.
Q.  Just talk about your round today, general comments on how it went.
JOHN DALY:  There was about three or four holes that I had wedge in my hand and really didn't have a shot, and it's because there's so much mud on the ball.  I scrambled real well.  The back nine I hit it as good as I could hit it.  I only shot 1-under, but I'm pretty pleased with the way I played.
Q.  Being wild wasn't a bad thing?
JOHN DALY:  Being wild would have been a great thing.  If you missed the first cut you had no chance to shoot a really low number.  Like I said, I'm sitting there with wedges in my hand wondering if I can hit the damn green, and that's no fun.
Q.  Talk about the playing in the fall a little bit, guys who play a full schedule, get a little tight this time of year, or people watching football games?  Is this a little different in the fall?
JOHN DALY:  There's so much going on.  You know, the NBA started last night and I think a lot of people want to watch that.  There's just a lot of sports going on right now.  Is that what you mean?
Q.  You're getting toward the end of the season, not just you in particular, but in general.  We've seen it over the years.
JOHN DALY:  I'm not that tired.  I've scheduled myself well this year.  Vijay never gets tired, we're not counting him.  He plays every week and wins every week.  I think guys schedule themselves so they're not too tired.  I wanted to play Greensboro and Disney to get some tournaments under my belt before this tournament, so that didn't pan out, but I've been fresh every tournament I've played, and that's the first time I've done that in my career.
Q.  Do you have the RV here?
JOHN DALY:  Merchandise trailer is at Hooters in Buckhead.
Q.  Just curious about, I don't know if you're much of a historian as far as golf goes, but what do you think Bobby Jones would think of the John Daly experience, the big swing, the loud crowds?
JOHN DALY:  I don't know, I think -- it's hard to say.  I think Bob by would have liked me.  You know, back then, it wasn't a problem after you play golf to have a few drinks.  Now it's a sin out here.

I think he would have liked me.  I think of all the veterans that I've played with, Trevino and Watson and all the guys, Miller, Barber is a good friend of mine, so I think I would have fit in with him pretty good.  I wouldn't have worn a tie, though.
Q.  Thanks, John.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT