BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
August 26, 2004
John Daly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








SCOTT CROCKETT:  John, many thanks for coming in.  The record books would show you enjoy coming here.  The first round showed that, as well.  You must have enjoyed that.
JOHN DALY:  Yeah, it was one of my better rounds of the year.  Usually the scores are really low here, but the course didn't play that easy today.  The wind is swirling a lot AND the rough is up so much, it's not that easy to get it out of the rough and on to the greens as it used to be.  So I'm very proud of that round.
SCOTT CROCKETT:  What was particularly good for you today?
JOHN DALY:  My putter was working a little better today.  Last week I hit the ball really well and didn't make anything.  Today I made a lot of good putts today.
SCOTT CROCKETT:  Let's get the details on your birdies.
JOHN DALY:  5, 3-iron sand wedge on 5 to about 12 feet.
SCOTT CROCKETT:  And your only bogey of the day at 7.
JOHN DALY:  I hit driver, sand wedge to about 55 feet and 3-putted.
SCOTT CROCKETT:  Birdie at the 9th.
JOHN DALY:  9, driver, 6-iron, lay up, L-wedge to about six feet, made it.

12 is a little 7-iron to about a 8-footer and made it.

13 was driver L-wedge to six feet and made it.

15, driver, L-wedge to about eight feet, seven feet and made it.

The last was 3-wood, 3-iron, over the back, chipped up, made a 6-footer.
Q.  How big was the disappointment of not making the Ryder Cup this time, trying to play your way in and not getting a pick?
JOHN DALY:  I don't know, it's kind of disappointing, but it's not the end of the world.  At least I gave myself a chance.  I played really horrible at PGA, a couple of bad holes that first round kept me out of contention in everything.

And Stewart won last week, so I think people would say he's a pretty good pick.  (Laughing).
Q.  Can you talk about how strong you think the American team is?
JOHN DALY:  Well, I think we are pretty strong.  We are very strong.  It's just amazing watching Tiger not play his best and finish second and thirds all year long.   I think our team is going to be pretty good.

But I think it's going to be a tough -- it's going to be a great Ryder Cup.  I think it's going to be very close.  You guys have got some young guns on your team that fear nothing, which they are not going to worry about who they play against.  They are not going to worry about Tiger or Phil or Davis or any of those guys.  I think it's going to be a good Ryder Cup.
Q.  And who would your two picks have been for America?
JOHN DALY:  Me.  (Laughter.)

No, I don't know.  I wish I would have gotten picked.  I think Scott Verplank, I think he would have been a really good pick.  He's playing great golf.  Nothing against Jay Haas, but, you know, Jay's been there before and he hasn't fared to well.  So his record is not that great in the Ryder Cup Matches.  I think Scott played there once, and I don't know what his record was, but I think Scott would have been just a little bit better than Jay Haas.  But, you know, who's to say.
Q.  I think most people over here, John, would have picked you.  Langer, for example, said he would have picked you.  Do you have any idea why you think in America they don't seem to have the same appreciation of you?
JOHN DALY:  There was some talk on the Golf Channel during the PGA, I don't know who said it, maybe it might have been Brandel Chamblee said, "John doesn't fit the mold of team golf."

You know, I think I do.  I think I would be a great team player.  I thought I did well in the Dunhill Cup for the U.S.  I think I would be a great team player.

You know, I think what happened, not playing good in the PGA.  But thank the media and thank the fans for kind of pushing Hal to pick me, but I think it kind of pissed him off, I really do.  And then he comes out saying it's not a popularity contest.  Well, I think that might have, pressuring Hal like that, he may have just turned away from it at all.  I really think it would have been, the way the fans are to me in Michigan, I think it would have drew some attention.  I think it would have been kind of neat if I could have gotten on.
Q.  Did you talk to Hal about the situation at any time during the year and what did he say?
JOHN DALY:  No, I never asked him or talked to him about it.  I don't like to kiss anybody's ass to get something, you know.  I'm just not that way.  And I don't think any of our guys are.  I don't think anybody was trying to get close to Hal and be buddies with him.  I've always been friends with Hal, we're both Razorback diehard fans, Arkansas Razorbacks, but I never went up to him and approached him for anything.
Q.  Does winning majors seem to matter less now?  You've had a string of major winners who have not gone ton to represent their country either in Presidents Cup or Ryder Cup.
JOHN DALY:  Majors?
Q.  Winning majors, it used to be that elevated you to a level and you would expect to play in a Ryder Cup or Presidents Cup.
JOHN DALY:  An interesting fact, in '91 when I won the PGA, that was the last year that you weren't automatically on the team.  I've got two records going, first guy to win a major never been on the Ryder Cup; and won two majors and never been on the Ryder Cup.  So, you know, making history.  (Laughter.)
SCOTT CROCKETT:  Thank very much, John.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT