PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 2004
John Daly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  The 2 iron, you were hitting well yesterday.  Could you pinpoint maybe what was different today?
JOHN DALY:   I don't know.  It's a brand new 2 iron.  I hit it so good in the practice rounds, I hit it great yesterday when I practiced, nice little cut.  I haven't hit a hook 2 iron in four years.
Q.  And which holes did it desert you on?
JOHN DALY:   It deserted me on 6, 18, and the killer was 4.
Q.  What did you do on 6?
JOHN DALY:   I made a good par, but I duck hooked it and it just went dead left again.
Q.  What was the environment like with Tiger and Vijay?  I know there was some long waits.  You like to play fast and there was almost a 30 minute wait; took 30 minutes to play 15.  Did that affect you at all?
JOHN DALY:   Not too bad.  Just kind of enjoyed the moment.  At least you have good scenery out there.
Q.  How was the banter with Vijay and Tiger?
JOHN DALY:   It's great.  It's great to play with those two guys.  I got off to a decent start.  Vijay got off to a decent start.  Tiger didn't get off to a very good start.  We thought we would feed off of each other.  18 really crushed me today.  That was the one that I was hanging in there, but it was great; I enjoyed playing with them.  I feel like, you know, hey, I hit the ball pretty good except for three holes, and I would have been right in there.
Q.  What did you have on your chip right of the 13th green?  You were just off the green to the right, right after the par  3 going out this way.
JOHN DALY:   Out there I had a horrible lie.  I thought it was just     I could see the little part of my lion swing, that's all I could see on the lie, so I figured I had to hit it kind of hard to hit it out.  It came out better, but I hit a horrible first putt.  I hit it too hard.
Q.  Missed the fairway
JOHN DALY:   Yeah, especially what I did, I missed them that bad, except for 18 was the only one that was really bad.

Like the second shot on 13, with the holes on the fringe, I hit a good shot in there; it just kind of trickled down, sort of a really, just a bad lie.
Q.  Do you put any extra pressure at all on yourself knowing that you need to have a high finish to make the Ryder Cup in all likelihood?
JOHN DALY:   You know, it's a major.  There's nothing you can do.  I hung in there.  I tried on every shot.  Tomorrow I'm going to try and go out and maybe play a little more aggressive.  I could kick myself in the ass right now for not hitting driver on 4 when Tiger and Vijay did.  I planned to hit 2 iron there and knew what I would have in there.  I'm just going to have to get a little more aggressive.
Q.  Not tentative on 14, Tiger pulled out driver and knocked it on.  Any thoughts there?
JOHN DALY:   The good news is I'm going to be playing that side second tomorrow.  If there's a hole I might be able to take advantage and I need to make a birdie, yeah.  If not, if I'm 3  or 4 under par going into that hole, I'll still hit an iron.
Q.  How many times did you use the 2 iron?
JOHN DALY:   About six or seven.
Q.  Coming into the week, what did you think you had to do to get on the Ryder Cup Team?
JOHN DALY:   I don't know.  I didn't even pay attention to it.  I came here, I got three great, solid practice rounds in, western wind, southerly wind, and then I got a calm day.  So my preparation was perfect.  But I didn't think about it.  All I wanted to do was go out     the way I had been playing, I was honestly thinking, hey, I could win this golf tournament the way I've been playing, and I love this golf course.
Q.  When you talk about you'd love to be on the Ryder Cup Team, you'd be ready to play, etc., Etc., Is it something where if you made the team, fine, and if not, okay, too; or is it something that you want it enough that you would try and calculate what you need to do or talk to Hal or whatever?
JOHN DALY:   No, I would never try to lobby Hal.  I'm just trying to do the best I can.  Whoever he picks, we're going to have a great team.  It will be disappointing if I don't make it, but I'm going to play some incredible golf the next three days.  I mean, I've got to play some incredible golf tomorrow just to make the cut probably, but there could be worse challenges.  Hopefully I'm up for this one.
Q.  Do you appreciate the support of the people who have been lobbying for you to get on and be a pick?
JOHN DALY:   Well, it's been great.  The fans, you guys, the media has been wonderful.  It would be awesome.  But, you know, like what Hal said, the par  3s and the par 4s is what he's looking at.  He's looking at stats, but I really wish he would have said, well, JD is leading the all around stats when he's doing those interviews (laughing).

Support has been wonderful, and I can't thank the fans enough, but I have a lot of work to do.
Q.  On 18, it's going to play as a par 4.  There's something where your length can really help you.  Do you think you would be an asset to the team that way?
JOHN DALY:   Well, it's not a golf course, like Hal says, length doesn't help, but there's about three or four holes if I remember that if you get it out there, it's a huge advantage.  So, you know, who knows.
Q.  Would you call this one of most disappointing rounds that you've had in a long, long time?
JOHN DALY:   Well, I'm just going to say, it kind of is a round, I just count it as three bad holes.  I look at 15 holes, I played 1 over par and I missed a short one on 1.  So really, if that goes in, I shoot even par for 15 holes.  I know it's 18 holes, but I have to look at it somewhat positive.  I played three bad holes but with three pretty good swings off the tees that were not that bad, and that just shows how treacherous this course is.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT