FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
May 28, 2004
John Daly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
Talk about today's round.
JOHN DALY:  I played really good today.  It was unfortunate, the last hole, but I hit a good shot in there, so I'm pretty happy with it.  I'm right in it as long as David doesn't go too much lower.
Q.  It sounds like you're right there for the weekend?
JOHN DALY:  Yeah, there's a big difference today in the scoring, of course, but I was kind of hoping it would still blow and play a little harder.  I feel the harder it is here maybe the better chance I have.  I putted a lot better today so I've got a little confidence in my putter, but if David gets it going he's tough to beat.
Q.  Is that a big difference between yesterday and today, the putter?
JOHN DALY:  Well, the course played I don't know how many shots harder yesterday, but if I would have made some putts yesterday I would have been right in it.  I missed a lot of six- and seven-footers, about seven or eight of them yesterday, but it's good to come out and play solid and be in contention.
Q.  We saw Miyase in the same spot you were on that last hole.  He went with a putter and did the same thing you did.  Were you thinking of using the wedge and kind of flopping it up there?
JOHN DALY:  Well, I would usually flop it but there was a clump of grass right behind my ball.  I was either going to blade it or hit it fat, so I was going to roll it up to the two sprinkler heads there and if it just gets on the green it'll roll down.  If I would have hit it just a little bit harder it would have been good.
Q.  Even if the weather stays as nice as it is now -- you've been in contention on this course.  Do you still like your chances even if the course plays like this?
JOHN DALY:  If we get off to a good start.  I love the way I played the back nine.  That's one of the best rounds on the back nine I think I've played.  I didn't really do as good as I should have on the front.  I should have scored a lot better on the front.  It would be great to have that chance.  I know with me and Bob Estes in 2001 we had a blast.  Fans were calling the Hogs and there was about six of them rooting for the Longhorns.  It would be nice to be in it again.

I've got to get off to a good start.  This front nine allows you to do that if you get good shots.
Q.  Were you able to have fun out there?  We know that you and Mr. Beem tossed the ball back and forth.  He gets to keep it and he's not giving back to you.
JOHN DALY:  No, he signed his name, I signed Tiger Woods.  He played good today.  It was good to see him play good.
Q.  If you get all the Hogs out there on the weekend does it make it that much more fun for you?
JOHN DALY:  Especially when you get in contention.  2001 was one of the funnest Sundays I've ever had in the game of golf for me.  People were awesome like they always are.

It would be great to have a chance.  I've got to shoot 7- or 8-under par on Saturday.  I don't know if it'll catch Toms or not, but it'll be close anyway.  The scores will be low over the weekend.
Q.  If you come up 18 with the lead on Sunday, will you call the Hogs for us?
JOHN DALY:  I think they'll be doing it for me.
Q.  Was seeing Mitchell this morning an inspiration?
JOHN DALY:  Yeah, I went to his house this morning.  Both legs are broke, his arm is broke and his left shoulder is broke.
Q.  The morning of a big round you just decided to go do it?
JOHN DALY:  Well, I hadn't seen him in a while and I've missed him, and he's unbelievable.  He's 17 years old and he's had 163 bones broken in his body.  Unfortunately it was raining.  His buddy was carrying him to the car a few weeks ago, and if he wouldn't have caught him when he fell -- he landed on his friend, it broke all that, but if he would have hit the ground, I mean, no telling.  They had to open his head up.  He banged his head pretty good.  He said, hey, you've got to come over and watch TV with me.
Q.  How much time did you spend over there?
JOHN DALY:  Me and Patricia spent about an hour and a half.  He's always in great spirits.  And his jaw is broke, too, and he says they can't keep me from talking, I'm still talking.  The spirit is unbelievable, he's such a great kid.
Q.  Does it help you to go make visits like that?
JOHN DALY:  It helps me and I think it helps Mitchell, but he's never been a kid that -- he's never been down, just like all the Make-a-Wish kids.  I've never seen them down.  They don't show their pain, and they're just amazing human beings.  He's like one of my best friends.  It was so great to see him again.  He wants to come to the Monday night party in Little Rock, so we're going to see.  We've got to be really, really fragile with him.  It's very tough to move him, but he wants to go, and I told Patricia we've got to get it done.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT