SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 1, 2007
Mickie DeMoss
Sarah Elliott
Jennifer Humphrey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:  Joining us from Kentucky, head coach Mickie DeMoss, Jennifer Humphrey and Sarah Elliott.   
 Coach, if you'd make an opening comment.   
 COACH DeMOSS:  Very pleased with the way we played tonight.  You know, we came out.  I thought Arkansas came out strong in the first half, first 10 minutes of the first half.  We answered their run.  We settled down, were able to get the ball inside.  We had some guards come in off the bench and knock some shots down for us.  Went in halftime with a lead.   
 We came out, I thought the second half we were able to get the ball, our high-low game going in the second half.  Played some good defense, forced them into 38% shooting for the night.   
 I was just very pleased with the win.  Rebounded the ball extremely well.  I thought Jennifer Humphrey probably had the game of her career.  She picked a good time to have it.  We're just going to have to have another one tomorrow (laughter).  We're excited about the win.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Questions.   
  
  Q.  Sarah, what did you hurt and when did you hurt it?   
 SARAH ELLIOTT:  I banged my knee really hard on the floor, first few minutes of the game, going after a ball.   
 I'm going to be fine.  I'm going to be playing tomorrow's game.  It's a little painful right now.  But the plan is to keep it moving, don't let it get stiff, keep icing it.  You know, listen to my trainer, hear what she has to say about it (laughter).   
  
  Q.  Jennifer, did you know where you were statistically?  Did you have any designs going for a triple-double?   
 JENNIFER HUMPHREY:  I didn't know till probably the last two minutes of the game.  But I just wanted to really go out there and do what I had to do to help my team win.  It would have been great to get a triple-double, but we still won, so I'm fine with that.   
  
  Q.  Wondering what you had for breakfast, what got into you (laughter)?   
 JENNIFER HUMPHREY:  I didn't eat breakfast today.  I had a good pregame meal.  Got some rest.  I was ready to go today.   
 It could have been our last game if we lost.  We're trying to prove we're an NCAA-caliber team.  We wanted to go out there and prove it to everyone.  We know we are, we just needed to prove it.  We had some close games.  I just think tonight we came out there and we did what we needed to do to show other people we are an NCAA-caliber team.   
  
  Q.  You were 1 for 9 to start the game, missing layups.  Was that a concern to get them settled early?   
 COACH DeMOSS:  Yeah, I think it was nerves early.  When you're getting those kind of looks early, certainly you'd like for them to go down.  As long as we could get those looks, I knew eventually we were going to knock those down.  If we could keep getting them throughout the game, I thought we would be okay once we settled down a little bit.   
  
  Q.  Coach, talk a little bit about how important it is for your team to take it one game at a time, knowing that you obviously would like to get an NCAA berth if there was any way?  Talk about taking it one game at a time.   
 COACH DeMOSS:  That's something that, you know, we're playing for.  I think you have to play with a purpose.  I think right now we know that we're still alive in the race.  We're playing with a purpose.  That's something that we preach all year, is we take it one game at a time, one possession at a time.  That's the only way you can do it.   
 So far my team has been very focused with that philosophy.  We're certainly not going to change that now.  It's one game at a time, one possession at a time.   
  
  Q.  Jennifer, if that worked so well for you today, are you going to think about skipping breakfast tomorrow, too (laughter)?   
 JENNIFER HUMPHREY:  Maybe, I don't know.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 SARAH ELLIOTT:  Makes my job a lot easier.  A lot of worries off my chest.  Really, you know, when Lanky gets going like that, you can just feel the energy go through the team.  Even if you're on the bench, I mean, you could just sit there and everybody is on the bench, Yeah, Lanky, good job.  We're screaming at her, all encouragement.  When Lanky gets going, it's complete energy whether it's essential or not.   
 It's just a very big pick-me-up when everybody needs it.  It's what we need with every game.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT