RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
August 2, 2008
Juli Inkster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JULI INKSTER: No. 11, hit my hybrid off the tee and hit a wedge on the green about 20 feet and missed.
 No. 12, 7-iron and tried to hit it up the hill and kicked left and had about a foot for par. 
 14, I hit a nice little pitch-and-run in there about eight feet and made that for birdie. 
 17, I hit my hybrid, right bunker, didn't get up-and-down.
 Then missed about a 3 1/2 footer on the last hole. 
 COLIN CALLANDER: Overall impressions of the day? 
 JULI INKSTER: 11, 12, hit some really bad shots and had to really hammer out and I played a few over par. 
 Hit some good shots, like on 17, hit a really good hybrid in there. 
 I'm just struggling with my swing. I hit some good shots, like the 17th hole, but the other kind is not so good, so I'm just trying to find a way to keep it rolling.

 Q. Did you get any inspiration from Greg Norman's performance in the British Open?
 JULI INKSTER: Yeah, it was great and it does show what you can do when you can do if you keep yourself fit and stay healthy. I don't think I'll ever be Player of the Year, that's probably not going to happen, but can I contend in tournaments and win tournaments? Yeah, I think I can. If I played tennis or basketball, I couldn't do it, but with golf, you know, we don't really have an age number to which you play, and I'm fortunate enough that I can pick my own schedule and play when I want to play. 
 COLIN CALLANDER: Are you aware of the records you would set if you won tomorrow?
 JULI INKSTER: Yeah, I am, every week. Every time I tee it up. 

 Q. On 11, how far did you hit it your rescue club?
 JULI INKSTER: I just put that club in my bag this week because I needed a little more bore. I'm kinda' struggling with it a bit off the tee. hit it a little bit off the tee, The one on the 11th was the second one I chunked so I have to kind of figure that one out a little bit. I only wanted to hit about 195 and I can hit it 205 easy so it was just a bad shot.

 Q. How far did you hit it?
 JULI INKSTER: Well, let's see. I had 195, so maybe about 100, No, I had about 65, so I guess about about 135 yards, something like that. I guess that gives hope to the average golfer. 

 Q. How much did you watch of the British Open?
 JULI INKSTER: I didn't watch hardly any at all, I was flying on Sunday going to the Evian, and my daughter had a couple basketball games on the weekend. We just kind of watched the reruns on the GOLF CHANNEL and so I didn't get to watch much of it.

 Q. Any inspiration from Norman at all? 
 Yeah, he was fabulously good, he seems in a good place and he's happy and enjoying what he's doing, he has a brand new wife and he seems to be in a really good place. I have the same husband, but I feel like I'm in a pretty good position, too. 
 I don't know what to say. You know, I'm happy for what he did and he's a great player and he seems like the Greg Norman of old. But I've got to go out there tomorrow and play golf and I don't think Greg Norman is going to help me around, so I have to do it on my own. 

 Q. How long have you been married?
 JULI INKSTER: 28 years, 28 years on Saturday. 
 COLIN CALLANDER: Juli, thank you very much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT