RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
August 1, 2008
Juli Inkster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   COLIN CALLANDER: Juli, a 70 today a 9-undre, 135 total and two shots off the lead. Your thoughts on the day.  
 JULI INKSTER: Yeah, it was a lot harder. Basically I drove the ball pretty good again today. I drove it in the marsh on No. 2 in the pouring down rain and made bogey on 2, but I didn't hit my irons as crisp but I kind of just managed my game today.   
 It was tough out there. The wind was going different ways, and trying to get the ball close to the green to have some birdie putts was tough. So overall, I'm very happy where I'm at and we'll see what happens this weekend.   
 COLIN CALLANDER: You said yesterday that you had been struggling with your game but you're improving bit by bit. Given today you've tested it in these conditions, you must be quite pleased.   
 JULI INKSTER: Yeah, I hit a few wayward iron shots, like No. 12, I made double. I had 8-iron to the green and made double. I pulled it left. I hit a couple flare-outs to the right, but overall, I hit a lot of good, solid shots. I've just got to keep working at it.   
  
  Q. I know you're a long way from home, but did you get a lot of calls or text messages yesterday?   
 JULI INKSTER: I got a couple from my kids and a couple from some friends. So we just got a new puppy on Wednesday, so they are more interested in that than how I'm playing. So pretty much basic stuff at the Inkster household.  
 Yeah, I mean, it's a great position to be in. I'm just looking forward to -- my lag putting today was very good again, and you know, so that really helped me out. So I've just got to keep doing what I'm doing.   
  
  Q. When you have conditions like this, do you go for centres of greens?   
 JULI INKSTER: Yeah, especially you figure you've got a short iron in your hand, you've got to play maybe a little more aggressive. But those holes into the wind, like 5, 6, 7, you know, and then 12, 16, 17, 18, it's really hard to gauge how much it's going to roll and with the wind and stuff.   
 So even on your tee shots, you know, you've got to -- on 18, I played it probably 20 yards left of where I played it yesterday. So you know, you've just got to really be aware of the wind and the slope of the fairways.   
 COLIN CALLANDER: Can we go through your birdies?   
 JULI INKSTER: 1, I was just short and I probably had a 40-footer and putted it up six inches and made that for birdie.   
 2, I hit it in the gunch left, and my only shot I was trying to do, I was trying to hit the bleachers behind 13, so I would get relief from the bleachers and then hit it on. But I flew the bleachers and went over the green on 13 into that little gully thing. So it was a cluster all the way.   
 So then I hit out on to the fairway, 9-iron on and I missed about a 10-footer for par. But I was all over that, it was a good bogey.   
 And then 4, I hit 6-iron about eight feet for birdie.   
 9, again, I drove the green and had about a 20-footer, 2-putted.   
 10, killed me. I had 4-iron into the green and made par. Just bad. Hit it in the right bunker. Didn't get it up-and-down.   
 12, again, I had 8-iron to the green and got it turning left and hit it in the red stuff, I don't even know what it's called. And then I chunked it out and then I tried to putt it up the hill and didn't hit it very far. It was just a six, so I missed about a 10-footer for a bogey.  
 14, I was just short in two and hit about a 25-yard pitch shot about three feet and made that for birdie.   
 18, I hit just a little controlled 9-iron about 20 feet and made that for birdie.   
  
  Q. Do you know much about Yuri, the woman you're chasing now? Have you ever played with her?  
 JULI INKSTER: I've never played with her. She's a good player. She's won everything in Japan, so she's got to know what she's doing.   
 COLIN CALLANDER: Juli, thank you very much.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT