SEMGROUP CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JOHN Q. HAMMONS
May 3, 2008
Juli Inkster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN: You say you weren't too happy with the way you played but you did shoot the lowest round of the week.  
 JULI INKSTER: I putted great. I think I only had 11 putts on the back side. You know, I gave myself a lot of opportunities. Even though I was on the fringe a lot, you know, I kind of still count that has a green hit, if putted it off it.   
 I am going to need to hit the ball better tomorrow to win.  
 MIKE SCANLAN: Questions? Please use the mike.  
  
  Q. Disheartening at all to have a tournament best 67 and see the leader pretty much matching you birdie for birdie?  
 JULI INKSTER: I played with Paula last week. She is hitting the ball very well. She is putting well. This is a good golf course for her.   
 But, you know, yesterday I finished double bogey, bogey. I knew some where along the way that was going to kill me. But, you know, I came out today and had a good round. And we'll just see what happens tomorrow.   
 It's tough golf course. I know the wind's not suppose to blow as much. So I think you're probably going had have to hit the ball pretty good tomorrow to have a chance.   
 I got myself in position to at least give it a run.  
  
  Q. (Question about Cristie Kerr).  
 JULI INKSTER: I don't know, but that's almost -- well I'm going to go on record and say that's better than Annika's 59. I mean this golf course is tough. It's the Par 5s you can't reach into. The Par 3s are tough.   
 You know, Annika's 59 at Moon Valley, believe me, that's a great score too, but 62 out here is phenomenal. I don't care if there's no wind blowing.   
  
  Q. Is there any way to scare these young kids or have them show more respect to you at all?   
 JULI INKSTER: Well if there's one kid that's got to show more respect it's going to be Paula. (Laughing).  
 So, you know, Paula's a very good friend of mine. You know we played (inaudible) Cup partners together and I constantly give her grief and she's right back at me.   
 So, um, you know we're going to go out there and she's going to putt and try to beat my brains out, and, you know, I'm going to try to beat her brains out and at the end of the day we'll still be friends. So that's what competition is about.  
  
  Q. You were close here last year. Does that help at all coming in this year, the way you played here last year?  
 JULI INKSTER: Well, I mean, you know, I think you have good memories from tournaments and how you play it. But this is the kind of golf course that kind of just suits my game; just kind of a grinder, plotter golf course.   
 You know, 15-under is not going to win this week. So it's -- especially with the wind blowing on Thursday, you know. I just knew if you can just hover around even par-under par, just around there you're going to have a shot.   
 So, you know, I got myself in position. And, you know, it would be nice to had have a good round tomorrow.  
 MIKE SCANLAN: Anything else?   
  
  Q. Last year I think you shot two-under the last day?  
 JULI INKSTER: Uh-huh.  
  
  Q. I don't remember that day all that well.   
 JULI INKSTER: I don't remember it either. I'm sure if you asked my husband he remembers it. But I don't remember it either. I know last year wasn't as windy.   
 In fact, this is the fist year we've got the full affect of the Oklahoma winds.  
  
  Q. Everything you've done in golf, which is pretty much everything, do you ever get fired up by who you are playing? I know Prairie Dunes isn't the U.S. Open but it's still cool to take out the players?  
 JULI INKSTER: Oh yeah definitely. Definitely. Certain people that, you know, you want to play well against and you know it fires your game up. And, you know, certain pairings that you like.   
 Yeah, I would say definitely.  
  
  Q. So this will be more fun tomorrow?  
 JULI INKSTER: Yeah. I mean I totally enjoy playing with Paula because I love her spunk. I love her tenacity. You know, if I could play with anybody I'd probably want to play with Paula.  
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 JULI INKSTER: I know she is going to be that pink thing she's going to bring out. Collin's going to have the pink hat on. (Laughing).  
 But, no, I mean, you know what's good about it though is I mean it's like everybody knows that which is good. I mean, you know, she's done well with that.  
  
  Q. If it stays right here how much help do you need? How much is you how much is going to be her?  
 JULI INKSTER: I'm going to need a lot of help from her I think. She's just playing good golf right now. And I'm going to have to play my game out there, putting and hitting.   
 But this golf course -- a lot of things can happen. And I know she knows that. So I don't see her -- she is not the type to play it safe. She is going to play her game. She is going to play aggressive. She's going to do what she needs to do to win.   
 And I'm going to have to, you know, just stick -- everybody said do you need to get off to a good start, you know. You can't force those things. You just got to go out there and let it happen. That's what I am going to try to do tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Lorena could be as many as ten shots behind. Someone asked if she still had a chance to win. She said si. What would you say?  
 JULI INKSTER: Si, yes. I would say wi. (Laughing).  
 But you know what, Lorena can get it going. I don't think it's more -- I think she just has a lot of people in between her and the leader. You know, if she was ten shots back and there was only like two or three people then I think it's easier. But when you got a handful of people I think it's -- not everybody's going to play, you know.   
 But you know what, she's got to believe that way to go out there and play. And I wouldn't be -- you know, I wouldn't put it past her to go out there and post a good score.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: All right. Thanks for coming in.  
 JULI INKSTER: Thank you.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT