CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 16, 2007
Juli Inkster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Talk to me about your round out there.  You had it going pretty good.   
 JULI INKSTER:  Yeah, I played well today.  I drove the ball well today, hit my irons, had a lot of opportunities out there.  I three-putted 17.  That was not good.   
  
  Q.  How long was that?   
 JULI INKSTER:  I don't know, 25 feet.   
 But you know what, I had a lot of birdie putts.  I played good.  It's tough out there.   
  
  Q.  Do you think it was tougher in the afternoon?   
 JULI INKSTER:  Well, the greens were just a little inconsistent in the afternoon, I think.  You know, they were holding well, it's just some of them have a lot of footprints.   
  
  Q.  What about just the -- when you're a veteran like yourself, all these young kids out here.   
 JULI INKSTER:  I just come out here and try to do my job and play well.  They're good young kids, they've got a lot of spunk, a lot of heart, they dress funky.  People like that, and I think it's great.  I think it's great for our Tour.   
  
  Q.  Some good young kids who have a lot of spunk and what?   
 JULI INKSTER:  A lot of heart and a lot of spunk, and they dress funky.  They dress like my kids would, you know?   
  
  Q.  How many do you have?   
 JULI INKSTER:  I have two.   
 But I think it's great for our Tour.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 JULI INKSTER:  Yeah, definitely, but it makes you work harder, too.   
  
  Q.  There's two or three girls that have babies (inaudible - question about the World Golf Hall of Fame) --   
 JULI INKSTER:  Yeah, I'd love to see Laura Davies get in, I'd love to see Meg Mallon get in.  Those two have done a lot for our Tour.  I'm sure one of these days they'll get voted in on the veterans', but I'd love to see Laura play her way into it.  I think when she came over from England and played very well, she brought a lot of fans out here, and she's been really good for our Tour.   
  
  Q.  When you got really close --   
 JULI INKSTER:  It was hard.  It was hard, you know, because you're thinking about it, but it was a year where I won two majors and three other -- I mean, I played really well that year, and I ended up doing it in Portland.  I didn't want to wait another year, that's for sure.   
  
  Q.  How does this course play for you?   
 JULI INKSTER:  You know what, it's like a golf course I play at home.  It's got a little bit of Pasa Tiempo in it, it's got a little bit of Los Altos Country Club in it.  You've got to drive the ball.  I think the more you play it, the more familiar you get.   
 The par 5s are kind of -- you know, like today I went for one of them, and other than that you've got to kind of lay up on them.  You've got to get the ball in the right area or you'll have some high numbers.   
  
  Q.  What are your kids' names?   
 JULI INKSTER:  Hayley and Cori.  They're 17 and 13.  They come out quite a bit in the summertime.  They're a little tired today.  They walked 18, so they're going to sleep good tonight.   
  
  Q.  Anything else we should know about today?   
 JULI INKSTER:  No, that's it.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT