WEETABIX WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 4, 2006
Juli Inkster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








COLIN CALLANDER:  Juli, thank you very much for coming in.  Level-par 72 today.  How were the conditions out there?
JULI INKSTER:  Well, it was tough this morning.  It was breezy and cold, but you know, it was better than it was on Tuesday and Wednesday.  So it was definitely playable.
COLIN CALLANDER:   Seems to me yesterday you blitzed the par 5s.
JULI INKSTER:  Yesterday I drove the ball really good on the par 5s and was in perfect position to attack them.  Today, I did not drive the ball very well on the par 5s, and therefore I had to play more conservative and thus, the pars.
COLIN CALLANDER:  And still leading the tournament.
JULI INKSTER:  Well, there's times to be aggressive and times not to.  Today I just -- I didn't really feel really confident with my driver swing, so I hit a lot of 3-woods off the tees.  I hit my irons good.  I miss-clubbed once and it cost me a bogey, but that was whirr's (ph) fault, not mine.  Very happy with the way I played today, the way I got it in, the way I got myself around this golf course.  Tomorrow if I drive the ball a little better on the par 5s, I feel pretty good.
Q.  Great save on 18.
JULI INKSTER:  Yeah, great save on 18.  I've played here three times and, three tournaments and still trying to figure out how to play that hole.  It's just a tough hole.
Q.  What did you hit?
JULI INKSTER:  I played driver.  Tomorrow I'm going to play 6-iron short of it and then go from there.
Q.  Inaudible?
JULI INKSTER:  Right now I'm kind of struggling with my driver and hitting them to the right a little bit so I just kind of over compensated a little bit.  Went left of it.
Q.  Karen Stupples' play --
JULI INKSTER:  Karen played well.  Yesterday she played great she missed a couple of putts that she usually doesn't miss and today she holed those putts.  She played very steady.  Made a great little eagle on 16.
COLIN CALLANDER:  Let's go through your birdies.
JULI INKSTER:  No. 3 I hit it over the green and tried to putt it and got a little bit carried away and missed a 15-footer coming back and made bogey.

5, I hit 7-iron to 12 feet and made that for birdie.

8 I hit way over the green and chipped up, missed about a 15-footer.

10, I pulled my 8-iron in a pot bunker.  Hit a good bunker shot out to about six feet away and missed the putt.

13, I hit sand wedge about eight feet and made that for birdie.

16, I hit sand wedge about four feet and made that for birdie.

18 that, was 80 yards.  I played that as a par 5 today so I guess I made birdie there.
COLIN CALLANDER:  About ten feet?
JULI INKSTER:  Yeah, eight feet.

15, I was in, I don't know what they call it, crab something, I called it crap, but it's called something.  (Laughter) crab something.  But I called it more than crap, believe me.  I was only 60 yards to the pin, so I felt like I could just get it going straight, it's going to roll up there and I hit a really good shot up there about 15 feet.
Q.  Could you see it?
JULI INKSTER:  It was just kind of sitting down, nestled down but I could see the ball.  I've been in worse, believe me.
Q.  Any discussion with your caddie?  --
JULI INKSTER:  I've had a lot of discussions.  He's tired of listening to it.  So I usually just end up babbling to myself.  This golf course will do that to you.
Q.  What will you do between now and tomorrow afternoon?
JULI INKSTER:  I need to go out there and hit some shots and work on, just get back to the basics.  It's really hard it work on your swing out there, you know, you've just got to kind of just let it go and try to get it in.  And when you get done, go get some lunch, regroup and then come out with a fresh attitude so you can make some headway.
COLIN CALLANDER:  Juli thank you very much.  Good luck tomorrow.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT