HSBC WOMEN'S WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
July 9, 2006
Juli Inkster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
DANA GROSS RHODE:  Thank you are all for coming in.  We have Juli Inkster.  Unfortunately lost 3 & 2 to Brittany Lincicome.  Still, you're a great match play player.  Talk about this round versus past rounds.
JULI INKSTER:  I just didn't play very well.  You know, I gave her some holes out there that I just had not been doing all week.  I made three bogeys early; that I don't think I've made three bogeys in the previous three matches total.  I just hit a couple bad irons and I just didn't feel like I rolled it bad.  I just didn't make much.  It was just kind of a 3 & 2 day.  So I got what I deserved.
Q.  Are you playing golf tomorrow?
JULI INKSTER:  No, I'm not playing golf tomorrow.  (Laughing).
Q.  Overall, how do you look at this tournament and what you did?
JULI INKSTER:  Overall I played very well.  I mean, I played great this morning.  I played great yesterday in the morning, too.  I don't know why I didn't play good this afternoon.  I was just hitting my irons so good. On the back side, I started hitting them a lot better.  But I just got off to a bad start.  Usually I can kind of rally around that a little bit but today I just didn't do it.
Q.  Do you think you ran out of gas at all?
JULI INKSTER:  I don't think so.  I felt pretty good out there all day.  You know, I just hit a couple bad iron shots, I don't know if I was tired or I just hit it bad.
Q.  How much did her length matter in particular on some holes hitting shots into greens and how has that changed over the years since you started playing?
JULI INKSTER: Well, this golf course, length is huge.  You know, it's wide open, so you can just bomb it away.  There's a lot of leeway one way or the other.  So you know, I didn't hit my driver very well on the front side, and the back side, I started hitting it better and the back side, I felt like I played pretty well.

She played well.  She lit a lot of good drivers.  She hit good iron shots and she didn't make any mistakes.  That's what I'd been doing all week.  I had not been making any mistakes, and today I made some and it cost me.
Q.  What kind of characteristics did you see in her out there?
JULI INKSTER:  Well, she hits the ball a long way.  She hit some good irons today.  She's a nice girl.  I mean, she's a good, young player.

She's got some spunk to her, yeah.
Q.  Along the same lines do you think she'll be an asset to the U.S. Solheim Cup team?
JULI INKSTER:  Yeah, she played well all week and she had some tough matches, too.  That's a year and a half away, a lot of things can happen.  But yeah, she'd be good.
Q.  Did she do a good job of taking the momentum away from you?  I think on 6, she rolled one in on top of yours?
JULI INKSTER:  Yeah, she did a good job.  I just, you know    making 4 from where I was on 3, that's unacceptable.  And then, you know, hitting that iron shot on 5, on 7, that's just not my game.  But she did, she hit a really good shot on 10 and then she made a great putt on No. 6.
Q.  Would you tell us how you keep your physical fitness?
JULI INKSTER:  I feel fine.  I'm tired, just because of all last week and this week.  It's two very mentally grinding weeks, being in the hunt.  And I'm kind of more disappointed this week than I was last week because I just felt like I didn't play as well as I should have played today.
Q.  How do you keep physical?
JULI INKSTER:  Physically fit?  I run a lot.  I do a lot of weight training, cables, free weights.  I kind of do it all.
Q.  Two decades ago, were as many women bombing it out there as they are now?
JULI INKSTER:  No.  Equipment has changed.  But, you know, Carner could always bomb it.  You had Carner and you had    now you're testing my brain.  My brain is fried already.  Let's see, Laura, but you had like Vicki Fergon, Jane Geddes, those girls could still bomb it.

But now with the technology, not only with the clubs, but with young players growing up, all the video equipment they have and all the teachers, they have had such great swings, and they get their maximum distance with their swing.  So it definitely has changed.  I think it's changed on all tours.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT