U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 2, 2006
Juli Inkster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 JULI INKSTER:  You know what, I played really good this morning, and I finished bogey, bogey.

And then I came out and played the front nine.  I played really    probably played the best I played all week.  I missed about a six footer for birdie on 8.  And then I putted off the green on 9.  I just kind of lost my momentum.

But you know what, I hit a lot of good shots today, especially in the wind.  I just left some putts out there.
Q.  How much of that was mental exhaustion?
 JULI INKSTER:  Well, you know, you get tired, especially when you do stuff like putting it off the green on 9.  It's just, like, how can you do that?

I felt good all day.  I just never really got the putter going.
Q.  You didn't find that the 36 was anything that
 JULI INKSTER:  Well, you know what, this morning's round felt like it took forever.  It took us two hours and 45 minutes to play the front side.  I thought, God, we're never going to finish.  I think this side we moved a little better, the second 18.

So I feel pretty good.  I had a great pairing with Se Ri and Paula, so it was never really a forced thing.
Q.  Did you feel pressured at some point that you had to start making some?
 JULI INKSTER:  On the backside I needed to start making some.  But I just felt like    especially the front side, the way I was hitting the ball, I felt like I was going to make my share of birdies.  And then the backside I stumbled a little bit, hit a couple of wayward irons, but overall I thought I played pretty good.  I didn't get much out of it.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
 JULI INKSTER:  It's the type of golf course, it's not like you're sitting up there with sand wedge to make birdies.  You're hitting 6 irons and 5 irons and 3 irons, and it's just really hard to make birdies.  And that's why even par is leading.

And I think you just try not to make any mistakes.  I made a couple of swing mistakes out there where I short sided myself, which I hadn't done all week.  I kept it on the flat side of the green.
Q.  Do you feel like it was within reach?
 JULI INKSTER:  Oh, yeah, I mean, shoot, yeah, it was definitely within reach.  I played great this morning and kind of stumbled coming in, and then played really good    I felt like I was one of the ones to beat out there.
Q.  Are you surprised that no one pulled away?
 JULI INKSTER:  No.  If you were watching out there, I mean, I can't tell you how many 3 irons and 4 irons and 5 irons and 7 woods I hit in, and that's for pins that are right in the middle.  They're like three from the right and four from the left.  And even the easy holes, I mean they're    the holes we were hitting sand wedge in, they're tucked three on the left and water is on the left.  You just had to really kind of manage your game out there.
Q.  The second shot on 16, what happened on that?
 JULI INKSTER:  I just hit it fat.  I was trying to keep it kind of low, and kind of hit a nice little cut shot and I just kind of hit it fat.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
 JULI INKSTER:  No, 36 holes you're going to hit a couple of wayward shots, and unfortunately I hit one there.
Q.  Sounds like you made a lot of real good par saves, it might have kept the momentum going.  Were you surprised today?
 JULI INKSTER:  I didn't really have as many birdie opportunities today.  I made a lot of good par saves out there.  I think I only hit two or three greens on the backside.  I made a lot of good par saves to stay in it.  I just short sided myself a couple of times, and it's just hard to make par from there.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
 JULI INKSTER:  I think my record kind of says I haven't lost much.  I've got a family.  My priorities are different.

But as far as my golf game, when I'm playing well I feel like I can play with anybody.  So it's just, I guess, my priorities are a little bit different than they were 15 years ago.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT