U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 1, 2006
Juli Inkster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
It's got to be kind of weird to look at your place and the way you played today on the leaderboard, and it's Saturday night.
 JULI INKSTER:  I know.  Tomorrow is going to be tough.  36 holes out here is going to be tough, especially if the wind blows, which I'm sure it will.  Today we got done, have a good weekend, and it's just like, no, just have a good day tomorrow.  36 holes on another golf course would probably be no problem, but out here, you're going to have to play    you're going to have to hit the ball solid.
Q.  Your putter was really rocking today.  You had ten one putt greens.  What's the explanation?
 JULI INKSTER:  I've been working really hard on my putting.  I'm hitting the ball so good this year and then struggling with my putting.  Today I didn't hit the ball very good and putted really well, so if I can put it all together tomorrow I'll be looking good.
Q.  How much role does experience have in playing a day like tomorrow?
 JULI INKSTER:  Well, I don't know.  It's hard to tell.  I mean, I think if you're hitting the ball well and just stay patient, I think experience is good.  It's all about pulling off the shots that you want to pull off.  Whether you have experience or no experience, I think you're just going to have to pace yourself tomorrow.  That's going to be the bottom line.
Q.  (Inaudible).
 JULI INKSTER:  No, I don't have any recollection what I had for dinner last night.  Sometimes that's good.
Q.  How about Prairie Dunes?
JULI INKSTER:  I have a very nice recollection of Prairie Dunes, yes.
Q.  You're in the same position, at least going into Sunday.  You're just behind somebody on top of the board.
 JULI INKSTER:  Yeah, I've got 36 holes tomorrow.  That's a lot of golf.  The thing is tomorrow is try not to look too far ahead.  And tomorrow morning, first round, you've got to play like it's a Saturday round and just get yourself in contention again, and then come out in the afternoon and try to do some damage.
Q.  When was Haley born?
JULI INKSTER:  1990, February 4th.
Q.  What do you try to do to keep your energy up on a day like tomorrow?
 JULI INKSTER:  You know, you hope that your workouts pay off.  That's all you can say.  I think it's going to be more of a mental grind than a physical grind tomorrow.
Q.  (Inaudible).
 JULI INKSTER:  No.  I'm sure she's home just getting out of the covers from a nice two hour nap.  It doesn't matter to me if Annika is up there.  She's our No. 1 player and you expect her to be up there.  That's just the way it is, and there's a lot of the good players up there.  But 36 holes is a lot of golf.
Q.  Your standard approach to a third round in this situation is what you're going to apply tomorrow, even though it's 36 holes?
 JULI INKSTER:  Yeah, you can't look ahead.  Even if you birdie the first two holes, you've still got 34 more holes to go.  You've just got to try to mellow out and just play that first round like it's a Saturday round and then change your clothes and pretend you're coming out for Sunday.
Q.  Is 45 minutes enough for all that?
JULI INKSTER:  As long as I get lunch, I'll be good.  That's all I care about.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT