MICHELOB ULTRA OPEN AT KINGSMILL
May 12, 2006
Juli Inkster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DANA GROSS RHODE:  Let's go over your card.
JULI INKSTER:  3, driver, 7 wood just short chipped up made about a 6 footer for birdie.

Then 13, the par 3, I hit 9 iron about 15 feet, made that for birdie.

15, I hit a sand wedge up there about five feet, made had a for birdie.

17, I hit 9 iron about 18 feet and made that for birdie.
DANA GROSS RHODE:  You had a great round, you're 5 under heading into Saturday, which on this course is great.
JULI INKSTER:  I played very steady today.  I didn't make a bogey out there.  I hit a lot of greens.  I hit a lot of fairways.  I think I only missed one fairway.  I was in the first cut, so that was    that helped me.  You know, I had a lot of chances.  It's just I think these greens are very tough to read, and I think they are going one way and they don't seem to want to go that way.

So you know, I was very happy with the way I played today.
Q.  Did you hear a lot of chatter going on in the groups in front of you?
JULI INKSTER:  Oh, yeah, Natalie made a hole in one, and then Paula birdied and then Lorena birdied and the hoopla.  It was fun.  I mean, it was fun listening to them.  It seems like Lorena got it going today.  Yesterday we watched just about every shot of theirs.  Today they lost us a little bit.  Yeah, they seemed to be making some birdies for the crowd and making some great shots.
Q.  Can you talk about your year?  It's obviously not like you fell off the face of the earth last year by any means, but this year you've made so much more improvement.
JULI INKSTER:  Yeah, it's been a lot more consistent.  I worked really hard this winter on my swing and trying to get a little more consistent and get a little better swing path.  You know, it's really paid off.

I've been very consistent with my ball striking all year.  My misses don't seem to be as bad which is helping.
Q.  In addition to so many people playing well, I guess it's a little newsworthy today, looks like Annika is not going to make the cut in ages.
JULI INKSTER:  When was the last time?
Q.  2002 British Open and before that in a non major not since the '94 Jamie Farr.
JULI INKSTER:  That's a pretty remarkable streak.  It is, it's funny, a lot of people are playing well.  Karrie, it seems like her game's back.  Lorena is playing well.  Cristie Kerr is playing well.  There's just a lot of    Hee Won Han seems to be playing well.

Annika has definitely set the bar.  That's what everybody strives to be is the No. 1 player for the last gazillion years.  So maybe everybody is just working a little harder on their games.
Q.  How do you spell gazillion, I forgot?
JULI INKSTER:  I don't know, I wish I had a gazillion.  I think it's with a G.  Does that help you?  (Laughter).
Q.  Did you come close to a bogey?
JULI INKSTER:  No, I didn't.  The only time I came close, I missed No.  10 just to the left, but I bellied it and hit it up there about two feet, belly wedge, and so that was really my biggest scare of the day.
Q.  That was at 10 you said?  How hard of a hole is No. 10?
JULI INKSTER:  It's a tough hole.  I hit a good drive there and I wanted to hit like a little fade 6 iron in there, a little cut 6 iron because the pin was to the right.  I hit a nice shot, and all of a sudden you know the wind kind of got it and sooner or later, now it's going left; and you miss it left, you're dead there.  On that hole, you've just got to, you know    you've got to hit the right shot.  You don't hit the right shot you're in trouble.
Q.  That hole seems to have so many defense mechanisms.  First off you've got a bunch of hooters up there eating lunch making a boatload of noise behind the tee box, tough fairway to hit, begs you to go into the left bunkers; can you describe how hard that hole is?
JULI INKSTER:  I think it's a tough driving hole, because the tee, to me, sets you up right, and right's jail.  So you've got to really pay attention to where you're going on that tee.

And then the second shot, you know, if the pin is right, you just can't miss it right.  If the pin is left, you can't miss it left.

So you've got to really pay attention, and then it's got all these little nooks and crannies in.  You've got to really hit the perfect shot to get it to roll out.  It's a good hole.  I remember last year when we had the Nor'easter and it was dead into you, I remember hitting a good drive and hitting 3 wood into that hole, and I'm not short.  I mean, it was all you can handle.
Q.  Should have looked this up before you asked, about you how have you played the last two years here?
JULI INKSTER:  I've played well.  I finished in the Top 10, I think I finished third once.
Q.  You were sixth last year?
JULI INKSTER:  Sixth last year, something like that.
Q.  So this is a good course for you?
JULI INKSTER:  Yeah, you know what, it's a good golf course.  You've got to just play really consistent golf.  Got to manage your golf game out there.
Q.  In terms of the degree of difficulty, where would you say this course ranks on the Tour, is it Top 5, Top 10?
JULI INKSTER:  Well, you know what, it really depends on the wind and it depends on the weather conditions.  I mean, I think the greens are extremely tough.  I would definitely put hem in the top 5.  I think it's a really good driving golf course.

I would say as far as really traditional golf courses, I'd put it in my Top 5 easy


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT