SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC
June 4, 2005
Juli Inkster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PAUL ROVNAK:  Juli, thanks for coming in.  10 under, you have a four shot lead right now.  Take us over your score card.
JULI INKSTER:  No. 2, I drove it in the right rough and didn't have a backswing so chipped out.  Hit sand wedge up there 15 feet and didn't make it, so made bogey.

No. 4, I hit 9 iron about 18 feet, made that for birdie.

5, I hit sand wedge about 12 feet, made that for birdie.

No. 6, I hit 8 iron about 12 feet, made that for birdie.

13, I hit sand wedge about 12 feet, made that for birdie.

17, I hit sand wedge about six feet, made that for birdie.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Talk about the day in general, the contrast.  It was still raining this morning, right?
JULI INKSTER:  Yes, it was still raining this morning.  You knew the greens were going to be holding.  I had a lot of spin on my wedges today, so it was kind of tough controlling that.  Kind of an opposite wind today, but overall, it was a lot better day than yesterday.  Even though I didn't score as well, I thought I played well, had a lot of opportunities.

I parred 16 and 18, which is not good, but I'm starting to play a little better and my swing is starting to feel a little better.  I'm looking forward to tomorrow.
Q.  How important was the birdie at No. 4?  That kind of seemed to jump start you a little bit.
JULI INKSTER:  Any time    actually after parring No. 3, you know, you want to be even through 3, it was tougher holes into the wind, you know, you want to    you feel like if you're one over after 3 you're losing ground.  It was great to birdie 4, and birdie two consecutive ones after that so I got my mindset into shooting low again.
Q.  How were the conditions out there?  It wasn't raining today, but the gnats?
JULI INKSTER:  The gnats are brutal, especially when you get over the ball.  They're just flying in your face.  It's hard.  It seems like I was swatting the gnats or holding an umbrella.  I think the gnats are a little better than the umbrella, though.
Q.  You haven't won in two years but have played consistently well.  Does it feel like a drought or no?
JULI INKSTER:  Not really.  I feel like I've played well.  The last year I've struggled with my golf swing and I really feel like I'm on the right track of what I need to do.  My misses aren't as bad.  It's hard to win when you don't feel like your swing is where it should be.  You can play good for a couple of days, but it's hard to play good for four days.  I just think Mike, my teacher, finally figured out what we need to do to get it better and I've been working on that.  Even though I haven't won really, I've played well for the way I've been hitting the ball.
Q.  Does it help going into the last round playing a course you've had success on?  Does that help your confidence at all?
JULI INKSTER:  Yes, I feel comfortable out there.  I feel very comfort playing with Annika.  I've played a lot with her.  I'm going to have to play really well to win, and I know that, but I feel like I'm capable of doing that.
Q.  Have you played the final round on Sunday with Annika recently?
JULI INKSTER:  Not recently.  I mean like how recently?  This year?
Q.  Do you remember the last time?
JULI INKSTER:  No, I don't.  I played with her in Mexico City.  She probably remembers when she played with me.
Q.  Talk about the course conditions.  Was it better than you expected?
JULI INKSTER:  Yes, it was a lot better.  The greens are really spongy.  You hit a wedge in there and it just checks right away.  I put new wedges in this week and they're spinning crazy.  It's kind of difficult to judge, but I thought the course held up extremely well.  And the golf course superintendent and his staff did an awesome job getting it ready to play this morning at 7:30 with as much rain as they've had.  I don't think they were expecting as much rain as they had yesterday, and to get it ready for play this morning they've done an awesome job.
Q.  Talk about your playing the par fives.  I know you would like to be a couple under on them and you were even today.  How did you play them?
JULI INKSTER:  Well, basically on 3 and 18, I kind of had the same shot and kind of left myself the same putt.  I just didn't get the ball to the hole.  On No. 16 I hit two good shots.  I hit a good put down there and I just didn't play enough break.  I wanted to play it outside the left edge but to me these greens don't break as much as they look.  I played on the left edge and never got it on line.  I missed about a 3 footer there.
Q.  (No microphone.)
JULI INKSTER:  I'm disappointed in that, but you know what, I'm playing well, and it's a different day and hopefully I can get it better.
Q.  (No microphone.)
JULI INKSTER:  I used my putter from just off the fringe.
Q.  (No microphone.)
JULI INKSTER:  That's not the one I'm talking about.  13, it did a victory lap before it went in.  That's my NASCAR shot.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Thanks, Juli.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT