MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
June 12, 2004
Juli Inkster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Great playing out there, Juli.  Nice     just a nice 66.  Can you talk about your day?
JULI INKSTER: I played really steady today.  I hit a lot of greens.  I drove the ball very well today.  That kind of set up my iron shots.  You know, I've kind of just slowly been working on my swing.  I've kind of struggled with my swing a little bit this year.

I've only played one out of the last four weeks.  I thought I hit the ball a lot better at Sunday at the Corning.  I felt like I was gaining on my game.  You come to a familiar place where you've come out well, and you kind of know what you need to do on a golf course.  I think it helps, too.
Q.  You won here twice.  It must be a real special place for you.
JULI INKSTER: I love the golf course.  I love the set up of it.  Even though you love it, you have had success, you still have to play well.  I was fortunate today, I only made one mistake on 8, and that was a bad swing, and sometimes you do that, and I got away with a good bogey there and come back with birdie on 9.
Q.  Questions over here.

Could you have asked for any better of a tee shot on 9 after what happened on 8.
JULI INKSTER: No, it's a tough tee shot, too.  Yesterday I hit a really good tee shot, I thought was perfect.  It was in the left rough, so I felt if I hit it solid, then that would be fine.  So I think it's a little easier when you're in par and playing well.  I felt pretty confident about my driver, I couldn't have placed it any better.
Q.  What did you hit on 8?
JULI INKSTER: I hit 5 iron, but it was between a good 5 and a little 4, and I tried to jump on that 5 iron, and I forgot to finish my back swing.  You know, I made a great bogey there, it was my only bad swing of the day, and I kind of moved on with that.
Q.  What was your thought process over the ball on 8?
JULI INKSTER: I had 191
Q.  The second shot?
JULI INKSTER: My second shot was    my thought process was try to get it on the green, try to get it over that bunker, if it did run long, I was at least chipping down the hill.  I thought if I went left, you know, I had a longer chip shot.  I had an opening, I thought I could do it, so I     I just want to make sure I cleared it.  I had a pretty good lie over there.
Q.  Juli, did you take three of the last four weeks off specifically to prepare for this tournament?
JULI INKSTER: No, my oldest had confirmation one week, and then she had graduation another week, and my youngest one was doing softball, and just at the end of the year, it's really tough to     they've got so much stuff going on and I was defending champion at Corning, and so I had to go back to Corning.  It just kind of worked out that way.  I took two weeks off before Corning and took last week off.
Q.  Is this the best round you've played here since you won here the last time?
JULI INKSTER: You know what, I couldn't tell you.  I don't even remember what I shot last year or the year before.  I can't tell you that.
Q.  Is there any sort of a sense that you want to take advantage of this course before they completely change it next year?
JULI INKSTER: You know, I'm just happy that     I feel like my swing is coming around.  You know, I've got a good round in today.  I've got the afternoon off, and come out tomorrow and play 36 and see what happens.  There is a lot of good players in the afternoon today that, you know, can go low, too.  I like my position, I had a chance on Saturday and Sunday.  That's pretty much what you want to do is give yourself a chance to win the tournament and not knock yourself out on the first couple of days.
Q.  You finished really strong on Thursday?
JULI INKSTER: Yes.
Q.  And then you wait a day?
JULI INKSTER: It was really     it was pretty good, because Brian, my husband, and my little one Corey flew in late on Thursday night, so I mean, it was good that I got to hang around yesterday.  Corey was there and stuff and Brian.  Really it was a perfect day off for me.  I knew we were going to have to play 36 on Sunday.  I'm okay with that.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
JULI INKSTER: I can't even remember.  Was it here?  I don't know.
Q.  Tomorrow morning's round , the third round, could you talk about  the importance of that, given that you've only got a short time to shake off bad momentum?
JULI INKSTER: I think tomorrow, the main thing is even though it's Sunday, you've got to kind of treat it like Saturday.  You can't get too up or too down.  You've got to warm up the same you do on the range and play     just play your game out there, don't try to birdie the first four holes or whatever.  Play your game.  A lot of pars out here are good.  Try to just keep the ball on the fairway.  It is     you can get caught up with bogeying the first couple holes.  All of a sudden, you're panicking and pressing and you realize you've got 33 or 34 holes to play.

Even though it's hard to do, you've got to treat tomorrow morning just like it's Saturday.
Q.  Juli, what were the course conditions like today?  Do you expect it will ever get dire?
JULI INKSTER: I don't think they got the mowers on the fairways today.  The fairways were a little long, you know.  The greens are the greens.  You you've got to kind of take what you can get.  I don't know about 36 holes on them tomorrow, but hopefully they'll move the holes around so we're not tromping on one area.

I thought the course was in great shape this morning.  They did a good job getting the bunkers and greens ready for us.
Q.  The Tiger Shark
JULI INKSTER: They're coming out with a lady's set of clubs, a high end set, they're calling the Juli Inkster's.
Q.  When is that happening?
JULI INKSTER: The next couple of months.
Q.  That a new deal?
JULI INKSTER: Yeah, they're out of Detroit.
Q.  You've got to win 7 majors before you get your own set of clubs?
JULI INKSTER: I hear you.  It's a slow process with me.
Q.  What was your day off like?
JULI INKSTER: I worked out in the morning and we went to     I had to work out because then we went to a place called Cheeseburger/Cheeseburger that was     yeah, it's pretty good.  We went back to the house and played games and hung out and had dinner at my family's house in Melville, Pennsylvania.  The kids went to see Harry Potter.
Q.  Did they see Jennifer Rosales there?
JULI INKSTER: No, different area.
Q.  How far away is that?
JULI INKSTER: It's 40 minutes down that lovely 202.
Q.  We'll do your card.

(Scorecard read.)
Q.  What was the worst lie you had today?
JULI INKSTER: The worst lie I had today was on 2.  I thought I hit a perfect drive on 2, and I'm just in the right rough.
Q.  2 2 or 2 11?
JULI INKSTER:  2.
Q.  Jennifer said she likes playing with you.
JULI INKSTER:  Yeah, I enjoy playing with Jen.  She's one of the young pups, and she's kind of fiery, and, you know, I get along really well with her.  So, she's not too stressful out there.  She likes to talk and stuff like that.  It makes for a good pairing.
Q.  Juli, how enticing are the birdie opportunities on the 16th hole?
JULI INKSTER: Well, really, you feel like you've got two really good birdie chances on 16, and if you hit a good drive on 9.  Those are really the two holes you feel like you can attack.  16 is not easy.  You've got to get it up and over those trees.  It's a hole you feel like, you know, you should birdie, and yesterday I didn't birdie it, and today I was fortunate enough to hit a good swing in there and get a good putt.  I would like to hit that ball tomorrow on the fairway.
Q.  Thank you, Juli.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT