MICHELOB ULTRA OPEN AT KINGSMILL
May 6, 2004
Juli Inkster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
DANA VONLOUDA:  Thank you for joining us, Juli.  3-under today.  Good playing.  Talk about the round.
JULI INKSTER: Basically I played -- hit the ball very poorly.  I mean, I only hit eight greens and eight fairways, and then I'd hit it close and make birdie.  I don't know, I just  -- It was a weird day.  I just hung in there; made some great chips for pars.  I eagled No. 7.  It was just an up-and-down day.  When I hit it on the green, I made birdie and when I didn't, I made bogey or par.  So I am very thankful for where I am at right now.  Hopefully I can figure out my swing and make it a little easier tomorrow.
Q.  Would we say that you maximized --
JULI INKSTER: I maximized.  You know, sometimes you get done, you say, God, if I just would have made this and just would have made that, I would have shot that.  I am not even looking back.  I am looking ahead because I shot as good as I could have scored today.
Q.  You come to Virginia, you just cash checks anyway, right?
JULI INKSTER: Yeah, I love Virginia.  It has been very good to me.  Love the people.  Got a great area.  So, I love Virginia.
Q.  Carin Koch said the greens are a little softer than she expected.  Are you able to --
JULI INKSTER: It was weird.  Some rolling a bit and some didn't.  But I think playing in the morning too helped.  I think they will be probably a little bit firmer tomorrow afternoon.
Q.  What do you think about the way you are playing now so far in 2004?  I don't know if you have normally been a really hot starter --
JULI INKSTER: I am usually a slow starter.  I play well during the summer.  I am just struggling with my swing right now.  I am not consistent enough with my swing to make four consistent rounds.  It's not from the back of work.  It is just sometimes it just takes me a little bit longer to get going.
Q.  Was there any point today when you felt like things were going particularly well or particularly badly?
JULI INKSTER: Well, yeah, I would have to say  -- (laughs) let me just tell you my hole on 8, hit it left in the hazard so I have to drop  -- I just eagled 7, okay I am 3-under, feeling better, I am starting to hit a few good shots.  I hit the worst 7-wood off the tee on 8.  I am in the hazard.  So I take my two club lengths and I have got a sidehill lie and I choke up on a 6-iron and I hit it, I mean, it just goes 90  -- it just goes way out right and since it was such a sidehill lie, just hooking back in, hits the front of the green, runs up there about six feet and I make that for par.  (Laughs).  So, that right there kind of sums my day up, you know.  I could have dropped 100 balls there and not done that.
Q.  Last year I remember you putted well here last year?
JULI INKSTER: Yeah.
Q.  Read the greens well?
JULI INKSTER: I grew up on poa annua greens.  I think that kind of helps me out a little bit. My stroke feels good.  I feel like I have to putt good the way I am hitting it.  So if I can just start hitting it good I feel like I am going to be in good shape.

1, I hit a good 7-iron in there about eight feet, made that for birdie.

2, I hit a bad 5-iron in there to the right of the green, didn't get it up-and-down, missed about a 12-footer.

5, again, I hit a really good 7-iron in there about six feet, made that for birdie.

7, I hit driver, had iron in there about 20 feet; made that for birdie.

You heard about my 8th hole.

9, I missed a 9-iron from the fairway and didn't get it up-and-down, missed about a five-footer.

10, I missed a 6-iron left from the fairway.  Didn't get it up-and-down.  Missed about a 12-footer.

And then 11 I hit a good pitching wedge in there about four feet; made that for birdie.

Is that it?
DANA VONLOUDA:  15.
JULI INKSTER: 15, par 5, I was just short, made a good chip, was on the sidehill between the bunker and the green, hit a good flop in there about ten feet, made that for birdie.
DANA VONLOUDA:  What club did you hit in?
JULI INKSTER: I hit 5-iron in.  I hit sand wedge for my flop-shot, but I hit 5-iron in.
DANA VONLOUDA:  Any other questions?
Q.  You have been out here quite a while been doing this very successfully for a long time.  What is the state of your "want-to" right now, how much drive do you got?
JULI INKSTER: You know what, I don't lack in drive.  I mean, I still work hard.  I still have the respect for the game to work hard.  I love what I do.  I think that's what keeps me out here.
Q.  Obviously like if you were a male player -- I think you are 43 or 44?
JULI INKSTER: 43.
Q.  You maybe positioning yourself for a Champions Tour type thing, like looking ahead, does it make any difference not to have something like that to look ahead to where you are just kind of heading towards the finish line as opposed to a fresh start?
JULI INKSTER: Two ways to look at it if it did have a Senior Tour I don't know if I would have been as hungry as I am to play well out here.  But on the other hand, I look at it if I am going to start playing the game when I am 50, I have played a lot of golf, so I don't know, you know, because it's not here I don't know how I would react.  I don't know if I, you know, just take like four years off and get rejuvenated and go out there and go give the Senior Tour a try.  So I mean, it is tough.  You look at Jay Haas, he's still playing pretty good at 50.  I don't know.  It would be a nice decision to have, but I am not quite sure we have that decision to make.
Q.  Has the development of the LPGA, since you came on Tour, been everything you hoped it would have been when you were a rookie?
JULI INKSTER: Well, I think it's been more than I thought it would be.  I never dreamed we would be playing for this much money and playing these great golf courses and, you know, can it improve?  Sure, I think it can improve.  But you know what, I think we have come along way.  I just think with the talent that we have coming out right now, I think we're going to go further.
DANA VONLOUDA:  Thank you, Juli.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT