THE SOLHEIM CUP
September 12, 2003
Beth Daniel
Juli Inkster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
LAURA NEAL:  We'll go and get started.  Thanks for coming in.  Juli, Beth, great match.  Maybe just give us a few words of how you were able to make it happen out there today. 

JULI INKSTER:   Well, I thought Beth and I  -- we probably didn't play our best golf that we've ever played, but we ham and egged it very well.  We didn't make a bogey out there, right? 

BETH DANIEL:   No bogeys.

JULI INKSTER:   I was out of the hole a couple of times, but Beth came through.  We just really plugged away.  We never let them get too far ahead of us.  We just kind of made some key putts when we needed to. 

BETH DANIEL:   Yeah.  I would agree with that.  I think we started out, we didn't really hit the ball that close to the hole and then sort of towards the middle of the front 9 Juli made a couple of key birdies on that front 9, in particular number 8.  I thought she was going to dance for me, but she didn't.  She made a bomb across the green on number 8 which was big.  And I think that gave us a little bit of energy there.  It was definitely the type of match that we ground out. 


Q.  Could we just have the crucial putts down the stretch?

BETH DANIEL:   Well, let's see.  I'm trying to think of the back 9.  Annika made a great birdie on 11 that put them 1-up.  And 12 Juli knocked in there for a gimmie.  They gave her the putt for birdie.  And then Carin made a really good birdie there to halve there.  We had birdies on 11, 12, and then 13 I made about a 12 footer for birdie.

JULI INKSTER:   Huge.  Great putt. 

BETH DANIEL:   Which got us back to all square in the match.

JULI INKSTER:   That four footer on 14 was huge, too. 

BETH DANIEL:   14, I made about a four to five footer for par. 


Q.  Pitched about five feet on 16.  The par 5. 

BETH DANIEL:   15 we all made pars.  16, I was out so Juli and I opted for her to putt first.  That putt was probably like eight feet, wasn't it? 

JULI INKSTER:   Yeah.  Probably about an eight footer. 

BETH DANIEL:   And then Annika made it on top of her after that.  And then 17 I had it 12 feet below the hole.  Made that. 

JULI INKSTER:   Great putt.  Because it's hard because the greens are getting dewier and straight uphill.  It was a good putt. 

BETH DANIEL:   You thought I was going to leave it short or something? 

JULI INKSTER:   No.  I left mine short. 

BETH DANIEL:   These greens have changed speed throughout.  With all the weather conditions, the greens changed speed tremendously.  So it's very, very difficult.  We started out this morning with the fog, so the greens had a lot of dew on them, they were slow or slower.  I won't say  -- because they're not slow.  Then as the sun came out, the greens picked up speed again.  And then towards the end of the day, they started to collect the dew again, so they got a little slower as the day went on as well.  It's kind of tough throughout the day to judge the speed of the greens.


Q.  Is there any importance in beating Annika, or is she just one of 12? 

JULI INKSTER:   Well, she's by far the best player in the world.  There's no doubt about that.  But she's one of 12.  Carin and Annika are a great team, and they've been a great team throughout.  This is the first time Beth and I have been able to play together.  I was just happy we won.  I'm sure they would say they left probably a few shots out there that they probably shouldn't have.  That's the game of golf, and that's why you tee it up. 


Q.  Was it one of those wins which helped change the momentum of the whole day?

JULI INKSTER:   I think this afternoon we needed points, and we needed  -- I got drummed this morning.  I looked to who we were playing with and it's Annika and Carin, I'm like, "All right, here we go".  It was nice to get a point and get in the win column. 


Q.  As it was down the stretch, I saw you two on the 16th green and you were still kind of joking around.  Down the stretch was it really that much fun, as fun as it looked? 

BETH DANIEL:   It is fun.

JULI INKSTER:   It's nerve-racking, but  --

BETH DANIEL:   Yeah.  It's nerve-racking, but it's fun.  It's something that you look back on.  This is something that I'll remember because I have never in Solheim Cup history been paired with Juli Inkster.  It's hard to believe.  No captain has ever paired us together.  So we kind of almost talked Patty into doing it.  We just kept telling her we think that we'd be a good team and consider putting us together.  And she did.  I think you have to try and enjoy it.  When I saw the pairing, too I went, "Oh, my gosh, tough pairing.  But, you know, enjoy it".  Enjoy the fact that you're out there with possibly the best pairing that Europe has put together in recent history.  And definitely the number one player in the world right now.  Just go out there and enjoy it.  I tried to do that.

JULI INKSTER:   We were the underdogs. 

BETH DANIEL:   We didn't have anything to lose. 

JULI INKSTER:   I think we're comfortable with each other as far as I don't think either one of us would try to do anything that we don't think we're capable of doing.  We just kind of play our own games.  I think we were fortunate to win. 

BETH DANIEL:   I do, too.  I agree with that.  I think we were fortunate to win.  Like Juli said, we didn't have our best games out there, but we were able to ham and egg it and help each other out when the other one needed help.  It worked out well.  We'll take the point. 


Q.  Would you like to stay together now then, tomorrow? 

BETH DANIEL:   I don't know if we have any choice in that.  It sure would be fun to stay with Juli.  Personally I think Juli is one of the best competitors in the history of the game.  Who wouldn't want to play with her.  I'd be crazy to say I didn't want to play with her. 


Q.  There's no reason why you haven't in the past? 

JULI INKSTER:   I think because we've always had a lot of younger players.


Q.  You mother them?

JULI INKSTER:   They kind of wanted to split us up.  In fact we were talking on 16, we said, we don't know if this is going to be our last Solheim Cup or whatever.  That's why we're enjoying it.


Q.  Juli, beating Annika and Carin, how important was it?  Not just for the point on the score board but for the mental importance?

JULI INKSTER:   I don't look at it as any more than just a point.  Annika is by far the best player in the world, and Carin is a very tough competitor and complements Annika great.  They play very well together.  It was a very tough match.  For us to win I think is a huge point.  But I don't think as far as giving us an advantage for tomorrow, I think tomorrow is the same thing.  It's another match.  You've got to go out there and try to get another point. 


Q.  Your captain, obviously she's a good listener.  She put you two together.  What did she do for you out there on the course?  Was she pushing you, talking to you, leaving you alone? 

JULI INKSTER:   I'll let you answer that. 

BETH DANIEL:   Generally Patty has left me alone the last two Solheim cups.  I don't require a lot of maintenance when I'm playing golf.  I told her, "You can leave me alone, you don't have to feel like you have to be there for me all the time because I know that you are there".  I've known Patty long enough, I've competed against her.  Juli knows her even better than I do probably, but we basically are great friends.  I have a tremendous amount of respect for Patty.  I know she's going to be there for me, whether I can visibly see her or not.  Patty has been a great captain these last two Solheim cups.  I've really enjoyed her as captain.  Every captain that we've had has been uniquely different.  That's part of the fun of making a Solheim Cup team. 

LAURA NEAL:   Thank you very much. 



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT