WENDY'S CHAMPIONSHIP FOR CHILDREN
August 7, 2003
Juli Inkster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MODERATOR:  Juli, welcome, you're playing extremely well this year with wins in Corning and then two weeks ago in France.  Can you tell us a little bit about your year, and we'll take some questions.
JULI INKSTER: Yeah, I started out slow.  I always do for some reason.  The last few months I have been playing very well.  I'm looking forward to playing this week.  It's a completely different golf course than it was last year.  I think it's going to play longer and the greens are well.  I think you're going to see some birdies out here. 

Q.  With the course conditions, how much different are the distances this year?
JULI INKSTER: Well, I mean, last year I hit a lot of 3-woods and 5-woods off tees.  This year, every hole I'm hitting drivers.  That just tells you how much longer it's playing.  Par 5, a couple I would get to last year.  This year, you can't do that. 

Q.  Last year the conditions helped Mi Hyun Kim win.  Do you see a different kind of player winning this year because the course is so wet?
JULI INKSTER: Well, yeah, I think you've got to carry the ball a long way, good iron player.  I think you're going to be able to make some birdies out here, get the ball on the fairway, and going from there, you can definitely attack the pin.

Q.  Do you think you should play the ball up or down tomorrow?
JULI INKSTER: It's wet.  You get a lot of mud and grass on your ball.  That's a tough question.  It's borderline right now.  The thing is if you get any more water, it's going to be tough.  I had a lot of mud on my ball today, and I hit a high ball, so it didn't roll very much.  I don't know.  It will be interesting to see what they do.

Q.  As wet as it is, what are the greens like?
JULI INKSTER: The greens are a little slower than usual, but they're holding well, so hopefully we'll get them a little quicker, especially when you're going uphill, you've got to really hit them.
 
Q.  After Hilary Lunke won the U.S. Women's Open, some people said she would not be able to win on another style of course setup?  Can you talk about her game?
JULI INKSTER: Well, I mean, I think once you win the Open, there is a lot of expectations put on you.  She's still a very young player; still learning how to play.  At the US Open, you know, it's one of the longest yardage that the Open has ever been played at.  It plays very short.  I only hit four drivers every day; 16 drivers all week.  So, it definitely played into somebody who was a little shorter hitter.  She hit the shots that she needed to hit.  She handled the pressure well.  What she does from here on out, no one will know, but you can never take away that he's the US Open Champion.  I think that's what it's about.

Q.  After a major win like that, what is the hardest thing?  Is it the expectations people put on you to play well?
JULI INKSTER: Exactly, yeah.  I mean, I think the hardest thing is you are not used to having a bunch of people follow you around in practice rounds or a tournament.  You want to play well for them, and it's just hard, but the longer you're out here, you're going to have good days and bad days, but hopefully she's enjoying it.  She should.  It was a great win.  She'll learn and hopefully start playing maybe a little better golf.

Q.  You said you rearranged your schedule to come to this tournament.  How are you feeling after two weeks over seas?
JULI INKSTER: This is my third week in a row.  Playing overseas, it's like playing four in a row.  I feel good.  I need a good night's sleep tonight.  I'm glad I came.  I love the area, I like the golf course.  Wendy's is a great sponsor.  It gives me three weeks off now, and I can take advantage of those three weeks instead of taking this week off and playing and taking two off.  So, I'm looking forward to a good week and hopefully get out there and come Sunday have a chance to win.

Q.  Some players went to Sweden on Monday and played the Solheim Cup course.  You did not go?
JULI INKSTER: I did not.  I played the Compact Open over there at that golf course, so I felt like when I played it, it was in August, and I feel like I know the golf course pretty well.  Considering I was playing here, I just didn't think it made any sense.  Plus I had my family.  It was too much.

Q.  You won on that course, right?
JULI INKSTER: Yeah, I did.

Q.  How much longer do you want to play competitive golf?
JULI INKSTER: You know what, everybody asks me that.  I just take it  -- after the year, I kind of re-assess, re-evaluate how I'm doing, how I'm playing, what the kids are doing, and then I just take it year by year.  I think that's the only way you can do it.  The kids' schedules, you know, if I'm still enjoying practicing, still enjoying getting out there and working at it.  In order for me to stay competitive, I've got to work at it.  I still enjoy doing that.  The thing is, for me, at my age and where I'm at in my golf career, I need to take time off.  I do a lot of that in the winter and I get away from it.  Like I'm taking three weeks off now.  I couldn't do it week in and week out.

Q.  What are the determining factors in you playing more or less events?
JULI INKSTER: It all depends.  If I get a week off, I take the first four days off and I'll goof around the last three.  Now I'm taking three weeks off.  I'll probably take two weeks off and work hard the last week to get ready.

Q.  So when you take time off, how many balls are you hitting?
JULI INKSTER: Very few.  I'm may play nine holes with the kids.  Other than that, I don't work at it, not anything hard core.

Q.  Jan Stephenson announced she is going to play in a Champions Tour event.  What are your thoughts on that?
JULI INKSTER: I bet you she makes the cut.  She'll make the cut.  You know what, go for it.  That's what she wants to do.  She got invited.  Go for it.  It's going to be hard.  The courses are longer.  There are some good players out there.  Just give it a shot.

Q.  Would you ever want to consider doing something like that?
JULI INKSTER: No, I've got enough on my plate.  I don't need any more.

Q.  Do you see this as the end of a trend with every Tour being hit or do you think it will continue?
JULI INKSTER: Yeah, I think Michelle Wie is going to try to play a lot.



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT