WEETABIX WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 30, 2003
Juli Inkster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
NEAL REID:  A big win last week, a big win for you, No. 30.  I wonder if you could just reflect on that a little bit. 

JULI INKSTER:   Yeah, it was, you know, just kind of thinking about the Hall of Fame a long time ago, you had to have 30 wins and two majors to get in.  I never in my wildest dreams thought I would get 30 wins, especially having two kids and stuff.  It was a great win for me. 

As you can tell, it's a little different golf course this week.  I don't think 21-under is going to win.  I played yesterday and I played today.  Yesterday I hit driver, wedge on 18 and today I hit driver, 4-iron.  So it can change in the blink of the eye. 

I think the course is in excellent shape.  The greens are good.  It's maybe a little softer than it was last time we were here.  It just depends on the elements, what's going to happen. 

NEAL REID:  You shot 64-65 on the weekend last week, so I guess your golf game is in pretty good shape; right?

JULI INKSTER:   I played very well.  I drove the ball very well last week and I'm going to need to do that this week.  Out here, you are going to make bogeys.  You just have to try to eliminate the others.  Hopefully make some birdies.  I think the golf course is extremely tough. 

NEAL REID:  Do you have a game plan going into this week? 

JULI INKSTER:   Just stay on the beach.  That's my game plan.  No. 1, it's the same old cliche, but first thing you need to do is get the ball in the fairway and then you can go from there.  Sometimes you are going to have to, even though it calls for a driver or a 3-wood, you might just want to hit 3-iron or something you feel comfortable with, getting it in the fairway and then going from there. 


Q.  (Inaudible.)

JULI INKSTER:   It's hard here.  With the wind and stuff, it's more of a feel.  You can have precise yardages, and I know the American girls really rely on that a lot.  We know exactly how far we hit it from 150 and 155 and what we need to hit here.  But when it's blowing 20, 30 miles an hour, you just put that out the window.  Okay, you've got 150, it's playing 60, 70 yards and you have to go from there.  Especially when it's blowing like that, middle of the green is good. 

If you hit on the middle of these greens, a lot of these greens, you're going to have some birdie putts.  It's the hardest thing to do is not get too aggressive and that's what's hard for me is I've always played aggressive.  It's hard to back off. 


Q.  (Inaudible.)

JULI INKSTER:   I think even par, 1-under is a good score.  You throw some rain in there, I think even par is a great score. 


Q.  Inaudible?

JULI INKSTER:   Birkdale, I don't think we had the true elements that Birkdale usually shows.  It was kind of mild that week, if I remember.  But last year time we were here, we had everything.  It was extremely tough.  So I came prepared for an extremely tough golf course.  But Birkdale is similar; you can't get the ball in those bunkers.  I think this course is a little narrower than Birkdale. 


Q.  Did you ever get a chance to see Lesley King?

JULI INKSTER:   I think he came out once when I was at Woburn just to watch me swing.  I learned a lot of my swing from him but as far as links golf, you've just got to get out here and play it.  To learn anything, to me, you've got to be able to feel what the links golf is all about.  You've got to have a good imagination of the runs and the pitches and stuff like that. 


Q.  Do you have your children with you this week?

JULI INKSTER:   Yeah, they are here.  They are on, what is it, the Pepsi roller coaster or something like that in Blackpool.  They are here, so trying to stay busy.  We'll come out and watch a little bit, but not much.  They are about nine-holers, that's about it. 


Q.  Inaudible?

JULI INKSTER:   This week you are going to hit a lot of three-quarter, knock-down shots.  Last week we had perfect weather.  I've been trying to work a little more on my three-quarter shots and hitting them low. 

As far as equipment I took out my 7-wood and put my 3-iron in.  I think that's a good move. 


Q.  (Inaudible.)

JULI INKSTER:   I do.  I do.  Really, it all depends on the setup of the golf course and the par 5s.  That's kind of where I decide if I'm going to carry a 3-iron or a 7-wood.  I would say it's 50/50 in the States. 


Q.  (Inaudible.)

JULI INKSTER:   We did everything.  We did rafting one day.  We went to La Sienne (ph) one day.  We went swimming in Lake Geneva.  We went up the coast, we went out, headed up there to some small towns.  So we did something every day. 


Q.  (Inaudible.)

JULI INKSTER:   I went last year, or last time I was here, but I'm hoping to not have to do it. 

Yeah, we went to the museum. 


Q.  (Inaudible.)

JULI INKSTER:   I do work out.  I don't have the equipment that I usually have the last couple of weeks, so I've just been running and doing some other stuff.  But I do. 


Q.  Have you increased that? 

JULI INKSTER:   The last three years, I've been doing it a lot more.  At home, I'll do it five days a week and on the road I'll do it three or four. 


Q.  (Inaudible.)

JULI INKSTER:   Yeah, I have been.  It's a little tougher going into the wind than it is downwind.



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT