BMO FINANCIAL GROUP CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN
July 13, 2003
Juli Inkster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  We'd like to welcome Juli Inkster to the interview room.  Talk to us about the final round.
JULI INKSTER:  I thought I played really well today.  The conditions were tough.  I thought I hit a lot of good putts out there that didn't go in.  But I played good.  The course isn't easy and with the rain coming down it's pretty tough. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
JULI INKSTER:  Yeah, you look at all the scores, there wasn't a lot of people predicting scores under par.  And Beth played really solid today.  She hit a lot of good putts.  I hit a lot of good putts, hers went in, mine didn't.  So that's just the way the game goes.  I'm disappointed that I didn't win.  But I'm not disappointed the way I played.  I thought I played really well. 

Q.  It's never easy to lose.  Is it easy to take because it was Beth and it took her so long?
JULI INKSTER:  Yeah, I'm very happy for her.  Because I know she's worked very hard at her game.  I was happy for her to win. 

Q.  It looks like you were waiting to go for the green.  Did that change because of the rains?
JULI INKSTER:  Yeah, the rain started coming down, it was a tough shot anyway, without the rain.  But the rain started coming down harder and harder and harder and it's hard to get a good swing on a fairway wood in the rain, off a tight lie.  And I just figured you know what, lay up, you can make 4 that way.  Beth laid up, so I knew she was in the same boat I was in, I did everything right.  The only thing I didn't do is I forgot it was uphill.  I had it right in the heart too.

Q.  The duel you had basically the last couple of rounds, is that a bit of a statement that the veterans of this Tour still have a lot of golf left to play?
JULI INKSTER:  Oh, yeah.  I wish some of the younger players would work as hard as Beth and I work.  I think their games would be better.  But Beth still has a passion for the game, I still do, and we love it.  And that's why we're probably still out here. 

Q.  Probably talking about the game of golf but the way the greens were moving Thursday and Friday so fast the way those putts on 17 and 18, they just kind of stopped right there?
JULI INKSTER:  17 was in the heart.  It wasn't short, it was in the heart.  It kept going this way (Indicating) and then it just went to the right.  I don't know how it does that. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
JULI INKSTER:  No, I was getting it out of the hole.  That's the thing with golf though.  Some days you make them and some days they do that.  And 18, that was just so uphill I just forgot how uphill it was.  And I wish they would give me a mulligan there, but they didn't.  I hit a good shot there. 

Q.  Did it get to the point where you guys were feeding off each other or were you just sort of into your own thing and playing your own game or what?
JULI INKSTER:   Well, I kind of knew that Kim started off really hot and she played really well.  I don't know if the leaderboard was right or what, but they had her 11-under after 5 holes, is that right?  Yeah.  I knew if I could just stay patient with the weather and everything that I was going to make some birdies and make a move.  And it happened.  I played just the way I wanted to play.  I stayed patient, hit a lot of fairways, a lot of greens, and I had some putts at it. 

Q.  You had the tee box, were you thinking just get it in the fairway, put some pressure on her?
JULI INKSTER:   Yeah, it was and it wasn't.  Because I'm still trying to make a lot of birdies out there.  I wasn't really -- coming down the last hole, two holes, it was kind of just a match play there.  But before that you just are still trying to focus on getting the ball on the green and making some putts. 

Q.  Through the first nine you were just playing real steady golf.  You had some opportunities to make a move and you waited a little bit.  Were you playing conservatively?
JULI INKSTER:  Well my swing didn't feel great starting out.  I kind of struggled with it a little bit yesterday.  I hit a really good putt on 3 that came right back at me.  I hit some good putts.  And then I hit a really good shot on number 8.  I birdied 8.  And that kind of got me going with my swing.  I felt a lot better after that.  And then I started to hit some good shots. 

Q.  You may have said it all when you told us yesterday that you said she would be looking for revenge after Corning?
JULI INKSTER:  I know.  She made the putts when she needed to make them.  And that was it. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
JULI INKSTER:  You don't want to know what I said. 
(Laughter.) No, I think it was something like she said, "What happened to the wood?"  And I said, well, I said it started raining too hard.  I decided I play to my strengths, my short game.  And so we started laughing about that. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
JULI INKSTER:  It's been great.  The fans, I can't believe they stuck around.  I mean it was great.  It was great to play for them.  They're very golf oriented and know when to clap and they're fun to play for.  I can see why hockey has got to be awesome up here, because they're very sports minded fans.  I enjoy the golf course, the golf course was in great shape.  It's too bad we had rain the last couple days because I think we would have had a lot more people out here.

Q.  This is Beth's first win since like 1995, 8 years, can you imagine what it would be like going through that long without having a win?  Can you talk about the perseverance that a person has to have to keep playing?
JULI INKSTER:  Well, Beth's a hell of a player.  As far as pure ball striking, there's not too many better out here.  She still has a lot of game.  She went to a long putter, and it took her probably a year, year and a half to really master that.  And she has been knocking on the door for awhile.  And fortunately she opened it up on me, but she just hung in there with it, because she loves the game. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT