LPGA CORNING CLASSIC
May 24, 2003
Juli Inkster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.  You look a little drained today.  Can you talk about the day and the weather and everything?
JULI INKSTER: You know, I think we were very fortunate.  It rained while we were hitting balls, warming up.  Other than that, it really was a pleasant day to play in.  The bugs weren't out.  We didn't have any rain or wind to say.  This is the day to play.

Q.  You've put together three good rounds.
JULI INKSTER: Yeah, we were playing good.  We had a little wait on 18, and I think we both lost our momentum.  I enjoyed playing with Meg today.  She always keeps everything loose and stuff, so we had a great day. 

Q.  Did you notice the crowds today since they were a little thin?
JULI INKSTER: Yeah, they were out there clapping and stuff.  I think the weather scared a lot of people away.  Every time I looked at that weather board, it just looked horrible.  I would have stayed away too, but I had to be here.  It turned out to be a really California day out there.

Q.  Do you like where you stand now?
JULI INKSTER: Yeah, you know, I always hate to bogey the last hole.  I'm playing good, playing better, playing more consistent.  I'm putting better.  I've got to eliminate some of the mistake tomorrow to really have a chance at it, I think.  There is a lot of people bunched up that could win this tournament.

Q.  What mistakes were you referring to?
JULI INKSTER: I bogeyed on 3, hit the wrong club and missed par, bogeyed 13 and 18.  Little stuff like that I can't afford to do tomorrow and have a chance to win.

Q.  Do you have a number in your head for tomorrow?
JULI INKSTER: I figure if I can be 6 or 7 under tomorrow, I could have a good shot.  That's the kind of number you think out here, so, that would be a good number for me.

Q.  A good round on this golf course has to start with birdies on two and five, right?
JULI INKSTER: Yeah, you've got to birdie the par 5s out here.  Today I got three out of four.  You know, you've got to get the ball on the fairway.  That is the number one thing. 

Q.  How was the consistency of the greens as the day progressed?
JULI INKSTER: Yeah, I mean, they were a little sticky out there, but they were all pretty consistent.  My speed's been really good.  That's been nice.

Q.  Can you compare your game last year to how it is this year?
JULI INKSTER: Well, I mean, I'm just playing better.  Every time I came in to play in here, I wasn't playing well.  You've got to guard the ball well here and course-manage yourself around here.  I think I'm doing a lot better job at that.  You know, it's been  -- I think my game's improved too since back then.

Q.  No adjustments for tomorrow?
JULI INKSTER: Yeah, you know, I still remember the holes you need to take advantage of.  I played 18 on Tuesday and Wednesday, so that was more than enough to know what I was hitting off the tees.

Q.  Is there anything about 18 in particular that's tough?
JULI INKSTER: Well, you know, it's just kind of a  -- you know, it was a dog leg left.  The driver's too much.  You need to hit 230 or 240 off the tee.  One day I was in the trees, one day in the middle, and today I was in the rough.  I should have done better than I did.  You've got to shape the shot there.  We had a five- or eight-minute wait.  We're over 40 now.  We kind of lost our flexibility. 




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT