U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 7, 2002
Juli Inkster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Have you ever played a better round of golf under the pressure?
JULI INKSTER:  No, I haven't.  Sometimes I just didn't know where it was coming from and, you know, it was so inspiring.  The crowds were great out there, and I was so happy that I could come out there and put a good round on the board for them because they've been very inspirational this week.

Q.  How about that putter of yours, have you ever putted any better in a week of golf?
JULI INKSTER:  No.  My speed was great all week.  I made the putts where I needed to make them.  I hope I don't wake up for a while.  It was awesome.

Q.  You looked very emotional out there, very excited at certain times when you made putts.  Was it a battle?
JULI INKSTER:  Yeah, I told the people in our group, I chipped in on 6 and I made a long put on 7, and I said "I've got to stop the fist-pumping or I'm going to run out of gas coming down the home stretch." 
I don't know where it came from.  I found my swing a little bit, and it helped out and made it a little easier for me, and I just can't believe it.

Q.  Put it in perspective for us.  To win this event for the second time at age 42, what does it mean to Juli Inkster?
JULI INKSTER:  I think to win at any age is tough.  42 is just a little tougher, but I work hard at my game and I love competing and I have the desire to play well and, you know, 22 years ago I was standing here holding the U.S. Amateur trophy, and now I'm holding the U.S. Open trophy, so I'm going to have to buy a condo or house here in Hutchinson, Kansas.

Q.  What is it about Prairie Dunes that fits you so well?
JULI INKSTER:  The first couple days I struggled with my game and I hung in there with my short game.  The last 15 minutes on the range I found a key that clicked, and I hit the ball a lot better today, and it's the type of golf course I play well, where even par or 1 or 2 under is going to win.  I made a lot of pars, and today I happened to make a few more birdies.

Q.  For those of us who play, what was that little key that you found?
JULI INKSTER:  I just tried to make a little bigger turn back there.  I think I was a little short, and it got me coming from the inside a little more.  This golf course is easier to play from the short stuff than it is from the heather. 

Q.  Thanks a lot, Juli.  You did a great job.  Thank you from everybody in Hutchinson.



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT