U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 5, 2002
Juli Inkster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







JULI INKSTER: Kind of a disappointing finish in how I fought back.  But I am still in the red and I have got two more days to kind of work something out with my swing and get back out there.

Q.   Talk about your chip on 7, you putt, it past the green, seemed like you kind of missed the chip?
JULI INKSTER: Didn't hit a very good chip. Probably my worst chip all day.  It's probably my easiest chip all day.  But I made a good putt there, made birdie and I moved on, and you know, I just  -- just got to hit it in the fairways which I am not doing. 

Q.   (Inaudible)
JULI INKSTER: It's tough out there.  I just figured I have got a lot of holes to get this thing back in the red and I just needed to start hitting some good shots.  Hit some good iron shots and some good wood shots on the backside and kind of got me going.  I birdied 17.  That helped.  Then I made some pars coming around.  My lag putting wasn't very good today.  Couldn't seem to get any of my iron I definitely need to do a better job at that tomorrow. 

Q.   On 4 when you hit the pin on the par 3.  What did you use  --
JULI INKSTER: I hit a little 8.  I was between 9 and 8, and decided to hit a little 8 there.  I don't know it probably would have been long if it didn't hit the pin I get a good break there, made birdie there, and you know, so I don't know.  Just tough out there. 

Q.   (Inaudible)?
JULI INKSTER: I knew it was going to be tough,  but seems like I am making it tougher because I am not hitting the ball which I usually hit the ball, and I need to start hitting the ball a little bit better and give myself some chances.  That's really the bottomline. 

Q.   (Inaudible) Who decided to let you play?
JULI INKSTER: USGA did.  We just wanted  -- we thought it would be best to let them finish but they wanted to keep on time.  So we kind of alternated between but Patty and I are real good friends, and she tipped her cap and I told Greg I said, God, I wish I was there right now finishing up instead of just starting, but you know, it was probably the three best that play the game in their era and they were a lot of fun to watch and aggressive and I thought it was a great pairing for them. 

Q.   Wish you had been there watching  --
JULI INKSTER: Yeah, wish I could but I had to tee off. 

Q.   Do you think this course experience might be more not here but just in general, might be a factor?  It's so tough and obviously every hole is going to  -- do you think some of the things you have been through in the past might help you?
JULI INKSTER: Yeah, I mean it helped me today.  I didn't panic out there.  I knew I had a lot of golf in front of me which could have been good or bad, but I knew if I could just settle down and start hitting some greens I could make some birdies out here.  But I hung in there and I fought, and what you got to do out here because you are not going to hit every green. 

Q.   Whatever flaw you have is it minor enough that you can work it out?
JULI INKSTER: I don't know, that is not a great (inaudible) for me.  The left-to-right wind, and so I don't know.  I think I am going to  -- I don't know.  I have got to regroup, after I talk to you guys got to figure out my game plan. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT