U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2000
Juli Inkster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JULI INKSTER: The golf course played a lot different, of course, because the wind was
blowing a different way. I had not played the back side that way; so, I was kind of
playing by the seat of my pants, as far as where to hit it, but it turned out okay. I hit
a lot of 3-woods, a lot of 5-woods off the tees today to try to position it. I played the
back side extremely well, even though I bogeyed 10, still made the turn at 3-under. And
the front side, probably not as well, but I had some good chances for birdies and just
didn't make them. You know I started out with a bogey and finished with a bogey, so
everything in between was pretty good.

Q. Did you feel as comfortable? 

JULI INKSTER: Yeah, I feel like I played good. I'm not real comfortable with my swing.
It's getting better. I've worked the last three days with Mike, and I just -- you know,
feel like I've kind of got a little bit of the guides out there, but I hit a lot of good
shots out there; so I think that will help my confidence a little bit. 

Q. Juli, how did the course play, as far as what you were expecting? 

JULI INKSTER: I really thought the wind would kind of blow the same way as it did the
last two days, but it didn't, and you know the fairways are drying out, the greens are
drying out. A lot of the shorts I played short and ran them up. I think as the week
progresses, it's going to get tougher and tougher. 

Q. With the wind after it started kicking up, is it a different course when it starts
blowing?

JULI INKSTER: Oh, yeah. Plus this is the type of course where you really don't have --
you have a couple holes that are downwind and into the wind, but most of the golf course
plays to the side, crosswind, which is extremely tough when you are hitting to hard
greens, because once you get it up there, it's out there for the taking. I think that's
what makes this course tough. It's not -- I think you have like two holes that really play
downwind. The rest are just crosswinds. 

Q. Are you happy with the way you played today?

JULI INKSTER: I am. I am very happy to shoot 70. You know, I'm very pleased. 

Q. Just looking at the scoreboard there were a lot of high numbers on the 6th hole
today. Any particular reason you can think of for that? 

JULI INKSTER: Again, it's a crosswind, and they had that pin only four to the left --
or four to the right, and the whole hole slopes this way, and once you get it right at the
pin, the wind is just going to take it in that water. You know, Sherri Steinhauer played
awesome today. She had one bad hole, but she played very well today and she putted
extremely well. She took an 8 there. It's a tough hole with a crosswind like that. And
tomorrow, the pin is left, but it's still going to be a tough hole because it's hard to
aim far enough left to get it to stop. 

Q. You said you didn't have your A Game the last day at the LPGA, and today you said
you are still struggling on your swing a little bit, but still you are 2-under. What does
that tell you about the way you're playing right now?

JULI INKSTER: I'm managing my game very well, and I'm usually a very aggressive player
and I go right at the pins, and I might be aiming just a little right, a little more left,
just to get them on the greens and try to play those par 5's. Today it worked out. I hit
-- when I had a short iron in my hand, I went at the pin; and if I didn't, I just played
to the middle of the green and take my chances. 

Q. Were those your daughters with you on the 9th green, and do you like your kids
having them around as much as possible, and is it a struggle to juggle motherhood with
golf?

JULI INKSTER: I kind of like having them around. (Laughter.) No, they are great. It's
like traveling with your best friends. You know, we're going to go to the baseball game
this afternoon and take in a game. You know, we have a lot of fun out on the road. They
are big supporters of mine, and I them. 

Q. Is it tough to juggle that, though, golf, motherhood? 

JULI INKSTER: Yeah, it's a real tough. But that's my No. 1 goal is to be a Mom, and,
you know, I love doing that. 

JULI INKSTER: No. 10, I 3-putted, and I was just on the fringe. Putted it up and missed
about probably about a 6-footer. I was on the far left. The pin was on the far right. My
first putt was probably 40 feet, and then I left myself about a 7-footer I missed it. No.
13, I hit just a little 9-iron in about four feet and made that for birdie. No. 14, I hit
9-iron again about two feet; made that for birdie. No. 17, I hit pitching wedge in about
four feet; made that for birdie. No. 18, I hit 5-iron about 25 feet. Hit it past about
four feet and made that for birdie. No. 4, I hit it in the right rough, and then I hit it
in the left rough, and then I hit it on with a sand wedge and I had about a 20-footer. I
missed that and had a tap-in coming back. No. 8, I hit 3-wood, 5-wood over the green, and
chipped up and made about a 4-footer for birdie. And then No. 9, I hit 5-wood off the tee
and kind of skied it and hit 6-iron to the left bunker. I had about a 5-footer and it just
slipped off to the left-hand side and tapped in for bogey.

JULI INKSTER: It's playing very fast. You know, I think I only hit maybe two or three
drivers all day. The main thing is getting the ball on the fairway.

Q. The two 9-irons how far were those shots in? 

JULI INKSTER: No. 13, I had 126 into the wind, and so I hit 9-iron there. And No. 14, I
had 137, kind of downwind. 

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT