U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 18, 2000
Juli Inkster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







JULI INKSTER: I made room this week to come and play. (Laughter.) It's great to be
here. I'm looking forward to trying to defend my title. You know, Merit Club has made all
of us feel very welcome. It's a great to be here. So, I'm looking forward to it. It's
going to be a tough golf course. The fairways are starting to roll out. The rough is
extremely tough. And the greens are firming up; so, it's going to be quite a test, I
think, especially depending on which way the wind blows, because it will blow. I don't
know, it's an interesting course. There's a lot of ways to play it, depending on how you
want to play it. The par 5's, you can be aggressive or, you know, you can make them
three-shot holes. You definitely need to play it a few times to get a feel of where you
want to be. 

JULI INKSTER: Well, I feel that last week, I really didn't hit the ball that good. It
was kind of a struggle. My teacher is out here this week, and the swing is starting to
feel better. So, I think when I'm on and I'm playing well, I hit good iron shots, and I
think it's definitely an iron course. I really don't think you need driver on every hole.
I think the key to playing this golf course is getting your first shot in the fairway and
then going from there. Greens, they are big, they are undulating. So, you know, you
definitely have to hit the ball in the fairway I think you can have a little better chance
to place your shots on the green.

Q. Very successful year last year, two majors, completed a career slam, got you into
the LPGA Hall of Fame, million dollar year, what do you do for an encore in 2000? 

JULI INKSTER: I've played very well this year. I've played very consistent. I'm not
playing as many. I'm playing a lot this summer, and the spring I didn't I didn't play a
lot, in fall I didn't, but you know what, I feel like I really didn't have to have an
encore. I feel like I played, just kept doing the things that got me to where I wanted to
get, maybe not have the year that I had last year, but I still felt that I could compete
for some tournaments.

Q. Juli, as you may or may not know, Michael Jordan is a member out here, and just a
short while ago he was in here, and he said that this course favors good putters, and he
thinks you're one of the better putters; he has picked you to repeat as champion.

JULI INKSTER: Really? 

Q. What's your opinion about that? What do you think about that?

JULI INKSTER: I'm honored. I'm honored. I didn't even know he knew who I was. You know,
I am putting good. I think when you get on the green, you can make some putts. You know
with an open course you're going to have to get a few breaks and things are going to have
to go your way, but I feel like I do well when I'm defending my titles, and, you know, I
feel like I have a good shot this week. But, you know there's a lot of players playing
well, but if I'm on my game, I feel like I have a good shot.

Q. What's your feeling about the timing of the Open with it butting up against the
British Open? With this being the premiere event for you guys, does that distract or deter
you?

JULI INKSTER: I kind of feel sorry for the PGA because we're going to take a lot of
their press. (Laughter.) Maybe we'll throw them a few bones. It's hard. I wish it wasn't
up against the British Open, but you know, this is our tournament. This is our National
Championship. This is our biggest tournament of the year, and we're just going to have to
go out there and play some good golf and bring the media to us.

Q. I'm wondering if you considered at all what your place in history might be if you
repeat this year, because you would be the first person to repeat an LPGA event and an
Open in the same year?

JULI INKSTER: You know, I think those are things that you kind of look back on, maybe
down the road, and say, "Wow." I know when I won three U.S. Amateurs in a row.
It really didn't hit me until maybe 10, 15 years later, and now I probably say that's one
of my greatest feats that I've done is winning three Amateurs in a row. I think it's
something more you look back on in history and say, "God, how did I do that,"
and you know, cherish it.

Q. If you could talk about the USGA raising the purse up to the money you are playing
for? Obviously the purse has not been that great in the past. Many of the other players
say that they have appreciated the way USGA is supporting you?

JULI INKSTER: I agree wholeheartedly. It makes a statement for women's golf and for the
USGA that they think, you know, we deserve to be playing for maybe not as much as the men,
but the most we're playing for on TOUR. You know, winning the National Championship is
what it's all about. The money is secondary. But I'm glad to see that they believed in us,
and hopefully, we'll go out there and give them a good show.

Q. What you've seen on the LPGA TOUR this year, with Karrie starting out and everybody
trying to pick up their level of play, what does that say about the tour and how
encouraged or how pleased are you to see the TOUR at that level, and how would you like
the Women's Open to have it's own weekend like the men do? 

JULI INKSTER: You mean the same week? Well, I think we would still be out there trying
to finish. I mean it was hot Thursday and Friday. You know, I can't really answer that as
far as --

Q. How encouraging is it to you to see the strength of the LPGA Tour?

JULI INKSTER: I think the strength of our tour is with the younger players coming out.
You know, Karrie is playing great, Annika has really picked her game up. You know, Se Ri
is playing well. I just think there's a lot of good, young players that are not only good
players, but great ball-strikers. If you were to go out and watch those three play, you
would be very impressed with their ball-striking. Laura is playing well. You know, I think
this golf course, I think it's going to be a good test, but I think it's going to be -- I
tell you who I think could play well here is like a Rosie Jones. She hits the ball in the
fairway all the time. She's a great putter. She's playing well right now. Meg Mallon right
now, same thing; keeps the ball in the fairway and is a good putter. And Annika is, of
course, riding a little wave right now and Karrie can burst out. So, there's some good
players that can contend.

Q. On that note, fans still seem to be flocking to the more veteran players,
specifically you and Nancy Lopez?

JULI INKSTER: She's a lot more veteran than I am. (Laughter.)

Q. Having the crowds flocking around you, what does that say about your staying power,
and also the fact that younger players seem to have come along and really won over the
fans? 

JULI INKSTER: I think, Nancy, I mean she made women's golf, and she's got a charisma
about her that's just keeps going. Her smile lights up a room and she's very courteous to
everybody. She realizes that she's a big part of tournament and still puts her heart into
it. Myself, maybe people can relate to being maybe a working mom and trying to juggle both
aspects of their life. You know, maybe I wasn't playing as well, and the last few years
I've had good years that, you know, people realize that it took a lot of hard work to get
back to where I am. I think another thing, you know, I would like to see maybe a good
young American come up and start playing well. I think people like to see Americans
playing, and I think that's maybe why they follow me a little bit. 

Q. Speaking of Nancy, obviously, if you couldn't win this week, what would it mean for
the women in the locker room if Nancy were to finally win?

JULI INKSTER: I think it would be great. Everybody would root for Lopez to win the
Open. She's not playing as much now, because of her family, but I think if you'd ask her,
this is the one tournament she'd love to win. I think everybody in the locker room would
be there right by her side rooting for her. 

Q. If I heard correctly, last year's Open, your daughters were not there, being earlier
in the year. Is it particularly tough to play when they are not there or easier when they
are around? 

JULI INKSTER: It's easier for me to play when they are here, just because, you know,
when I get done with golf, they really take my mind off golf. They always fight; so I kind
of break them up. But a lot of stuff we get to do as a family that's fun, and, you know, I
missed them last year at the Open, but they were in school finishing up their year, and
Brian was there with me. But they were here this year at the LPGA Championship, and it
makes it special, you know, whether you win or lose and you walk off that 18th green and
they are there. You know, they are the biggest part of my life; so it makes it easier. 

Q. You mentioned when you were here for Media Day that the LPGA TOUR has kind of gone
to smaller markets, as opposed to the Chicagos. What in your mind does that say? Does that
say that you have not quite made it yet? 

JULI INKSTER: I just think that in my mind, I think we have a great market. I think we
have a great group that =can really play the game of golf, but I think a lot of it is the
media. You know, you guys do a great job, but we could use more support. We could use more
TV coverage, you know, so people can know these people are coming up that are good
players. The bottom line is exposure, and if we play in a smaller market and draw 40,000,
it's better for us than playing in a bigger market and drawing 10,000. You know, the more
people we draw, the better it is. And if we have to start in smaller markets to gain that
media exposure and gain that knowledge of people knowing who the players are, then let's
start there and move up. You know, to play in New York and to play in Chicago, we need you
guys to get it out in the paper that we're here, and this is a great group of women that
can really play golf. You know, I think most of the -- a lot of people out there still
think we hit it 210 yards off the tee. So I think the more the word gets out that they are
great ball-strikers, they are good players, I think the better off we are.

Q. Does that make this week important, because this is a big market? 

JULI INKSTER: I think every week is important. But, you know, U.S. Open, you've got
your NBC, you've got the best crew in golf. You know, that helps us. They know the
players. They put on a show, and that's what it is. I mean, that's what we're trying to
sell is the show. You know, the bottom line is if we shoot 15-under par, the course is too
easy; and if we shoot 6-over par, the course is too tough. But if the men shoot 15-under
par, they are playing great golf and if they shoot 6-over par, the course is too tough. I
feel like sometimes we're kind of that no-win situation. You know, no one really gives us
the credit that I think we deserve. 

Q. The USGA has done a lot over the last couple years, spent a lot of money trying to
promote the sport with kids, particularly girls. Can you talk a little bit about how
important that is to get kids playing golf at a younger age? 

JULI INKSTER: Well, I think it's very important, not just -- not just for them to turn
professional or whatever. I think golf is a great character-builder. It teaches them
honesty, teaches them how to work for goals, teaches them how to dedicate yourself to
something. In business, if you played golf with three other business people, you can learn
more about them in four hours than you can sitting down with them for 20 meetings. If you
play with someone that's fudging the ball on the golf course, you're not going to want to
do business with them. I think you can learn a lot about people in a round of golf, and I
think you can start them young, give them the opportunity to go out there and play and let
them take it from there. 

Q. Do you think USGA did anything in the setup here in reaction to the low scores last
year? 

JULI INKSTER: Well, you know, I think last year, I think they got a bad, you know,
stake in it. It rained, poured Wednesday night. The Bermuda did not grow the way they
wanted it to because of the hot weather before. I think Sunday, the course dried out, the
wind was up, and I think only like four or five players broke par. So I think coming into
there, I think the course played easier, because of the wet greens and no rough. I mean,
the rough did not grow like they wanted it to. You know, I think that's a great golf
course, and I think if we went there another time and the weather was a little different,
I think it would be an extremely tough golf course. It was just perfect conditions to play
in. And this golf course, it's not going to be perfect, because the wind is going to be
blowing every day, depending on which way. The rough is up because they had a really wet
spring. So that's conducive to growing great rough. The greens are probably just where
they want them right now. So I think Mother Nature helped them out, and I think the course
is going to play extremely tough. I think, you know, as the week wears on, the fairways
are going to get harder and harder, and you're just going to have to really pick that club
off the tee and get it in the fairway.

Q. You're talking about getting more exposure. What do you think of the TV commercial
where the LPGA, your own organization, makes fun of your dancing ability? 

JULI INKSTER: Well, they should make fun of my dancing ability because it's not very
good. You know, I thought it was great. I thought it was a great commercial, fun,
light-hearted. I think we need more of those. I think it was good for golf and I do stink
at dancing, I admit it, but it's fun to do. 

Q. You mentioned the wind, and Karrie said earlier she likes playing in the wind
because she thinks it helps her keep her concentration. Can you comment on that? 

JULI INKSTER: Well, I agree. I mean, you really have to focus in on what you want to do
with the ball and what club you want to take. And, you know, I think the whole key to
playing in the wind is hitting solid shots. And you know, I feel like I've left, after
playing in the wind, really, when you get done you really feel like you've put in a good
day's work. 

End of FastScripts....            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT