MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 24, 2000
Juli Inkster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JULI INKSTER:   No. 1, I hit it about 25 feet above the hole and knocked it about five feet missed it.   Made bogey on 1.  No. 7, I hit a little 9-iron about 25 feet and made that for birdie. No. 8, I hit 4-iron about two feet and made that for birdie.  No. 10 I hit 9-iron about two feet and hit that for birdie.  No. 11, I hit just about 30 yards to the green, and had to go up and over the bunker, and I hit it about 25 feet above the hole it.   Broke a ton and I made it.  I mean, I could probably drop 100 balls here and make one, and I happened to make that one; so that was kind of a gift.  And then, 16, I was just short.  Chipped up there about two feet made that for birdie on 16.  17, I hit a little 7-iron  -- a little 7-iron about 12 feet and made that for birdie.  18, I hit 7-iron about 35 feet and I made that for birdie. 

JULI INKSTER:   The birthday started off a little slow after 1, but got better as the day went on.  Overall, I hit the ball very well today.  I think I only hit in the rough once today  -- twice, and got out both times.  My swing is feeling a little better as the days are going on, and I made some good putts out there today. 


Q.  What was the key on that back nine, five birdies? 

JULI INKSTER:   You know, I just really started on 8.  Really, 7; I birdied 7, 8 and 10 and that kind of got me going.  10, I hit a good iron shot in there about three feet, but it was above the hole so it was a tricky putt, and I coaxed that in and that just gave me a little lift.  I hit the back side very well.  I had a lot of birdie opportunities.  I didn't make very many, but, you know, I felt like I was stroking the ball  well.   It's really tough out here with the greens, to have the right speed and how much it's going to break and get it all put together. 


Q.  You've been fighting your swing.  What kicked in today? 

JULI INKSTER:   Well, I've just been kind of working on some drills the last few days, trying to get a little better shoulder turn.  Coming from the inside a little bit more.  I felt like I was coming over the ball  -- I don't know, just didn't feel good.  And it's feeling a little better as the days are going on. 


Q.  Your thoughts about being second and Wendy  --

JULI INKSTER:   I did what I wanted to do, which is just have a shot at winning come Sunday.  Got myself right back in the ballgame today, and, you know, who knows what tomorrow will bring.  But, I'm there, and if I can go out and play another solid round, I have a good shot.


Q.  Did the gallery know it was your birthday out there?

JULI INKSTER:   I don't think there was one person that didn't know it was my birthday.  Everybody around the greens and stuff was saying happy birthday and stuff.  When you're over par it doesn't sound real good, but when it's a 5-, or 6-under, it's okay.


Q.  Was it a distraction? 

JULI INKSTER:   I felt bad for Jane, I played with her today.  I said, "Crafty, it's not my fault."  She understood.  Everybody means well, so just kind of roll with it. 


Q.  Is it easier to swallow on your 40th birthday, shooting a 65? 

JULI INKSTER:   You know what, 40 has been a lot easier than 30.  30 was tough for me just because I had just had Hayley, playing bad golf and not knowing what I was doing.  Just kind of frustrating.  But 40, I feel pretty good.  It's not as  -- the kids wake up and Cori rolls out of bed ; they remind me all the time. 


Q.  Do you think the positive vibes you have with this golf course will do well for you tomorrow?

JULI INKSTER:   I don't think so.  You can have as positive vibes as anything, but you've still got to do the shots, and, you know, score well.  And you know, I already felt how positive my swing was feeling, just repeating it.  I don't know, I just feel like it's work out there, instead of flowing.  So hopefully -- you know, I feel like it's getting better each day. 


Q.  With the wild fluctuations we saw today, Laura dropping off the map, Wendy going big, you surging, is that what you would expect tomorrow?  A lot  -- a big number of people?

JULI INKSTER:   I think there's a lot of people out there that  -- a lot of people that are 1-under, even, 2-under, you know, that can get hot and come from  -- today, I got hot on the back side and came from behind.  You definitely have to shoot under par tomorrow.  I mean, I'm going to have to go out there with a mindset of being patient, but also playing aggressive, because par will only get you so far.  You have to make some birdies. 


Q.  Is there a low number out there tomorrow, Juli, do you think?

JULI INKSTER:   I don't know.  I don't know what the weather is going to bring.  I don't know if it's going to be windier tomorrow.  I don't really know. 


Q.  Did you notice the charge that Wendy made? 

JULI INKSTER:   No, I didn't, really.  I was just trying to get myself in the hunt and be able to compete for tomorrow.  I knew she was playing well.  She must be playing well.  She's a good player.  I mean, she's got a lot of talent.  She's pretty level-headed.   Doesn't get too upset.  Good demeanor.  Nice person.  I'm not surprised that she's up there. 


Q.  Are you surprised she hasn't done better out here?  She almost won as an amateur. 

JULI INKSTER:   Yeah, coming out of college, I thought she'd win a lot.  And, you know, sometimes it just takes people a little longer to get settled and get into the groove, and, you know, find themselves.  But I think she's got a world of potential. 


Q.  What would this mean for you to win this at this stage in your career, where you're certainly not over the hill, but you're at the point where -- you're at the point to where you're going to start peeling back a little bit?

JULI INKSTER:   I'm at the top of the hill  -- it's a long plateau.  I think any win at this stage in my career is gravy.  It's icing on the cake.  We have a great field here, a great host in McDonald's, great golf course in the Du Pont.  I think winning this tournament, you know, you play the best of all the players in the world.  You know, to win a major, that's what everybody strives for is to win a major.  It would mean a lot to me.  But it would probably mean a lot to 70 other girls, too. 


Q.  How did you feel at the end when you were serenaded? 

JULI INKSTER:   I was worried about the people on 18 green.  Yeah, it's nice to be recognized, it's nice to be loved out there.  And I was feeling the love, as they say, let's put it that way. 


Q.  When was the last time you played on your birthday?

JULI INKSTER:   Last year.   And you know, next year I'll be playing on my birthday, too.  I don't think at 41 I'll get as much love as I did at 40.


Q.  From who? 

JULI INKSTER:   From the crowd. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT