PAGENET CHAMPIONSHIP
November 12, 1999
Juli Inkster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 JULI INKSTER: No. 1 I hit 7-iron about 10 feet; made that for birdie. No. 2, I hit it
just to the right, chipped up; missed about a 4-footer; made bogey. No. 3, I hit pitching
wedge out of the right bunker to about twelve feet; made that for birdie. No. 4, I hit an
8-iron about three feet made that for birdie. No. 9 I hit sand wedge about 15 feet, made
for birdie. No. 10, I hit 7-wood on in two and putted up; made birdie. I had probably --
from the bottom, probably 35-foot putt for eagle. Then I think I parred all the rest of
them. Last couple of days I have gotten good starts off the fronts and kind of haven't --
I played really good on the back today; just didn't make the putts. I had some birdie
chances that I didn't make. But I don't know, it is going to be hard to catch Se Ri. She
is lightning it up out there. 
 
Q. She has had tournaments like this before; we are just kind of pressing everyone's
for else --
 
 JULI INKSTER: You can make some birdies out here so you just got to -- maybe you are
wondering she might shoot even; you can get hot and shoot 7-under so you just got to keep
trying to play your own game, but there is a lot of good players up there. 
 
Q. Tell us about your illness.
 
 JULI INKSTER: I think I just had food poisening. I went to dinner Wednesday night and
went to a nice place and I had veal and woke up about two with the "U-hoes," and
about 5 with the other end, so, I think everybody has had it. It just not fun. You wish
you can get it Monday or Tuesday before the next tournament. I felt -- I think it helped
me as far as slowing my swing down and my tempo down because I really wasn't hitting the
ball that good this week, and yesterday I think with how easy I was swinging started to
get some of my rhythm back, but I slept -- stayed in bed a lot yesterday afternoon, but I
felt better today. I felt like I need to start eating. 
 
Q. Do you agree with "beware of the injured" or --
 
 JULI INKSTER: Yeah, I think sometimes your expectations go from here to down here and I
think sometimes you just kind of let it go and not really worry about the outcome. If
someone said yesterday before I teed it up, you shot 2-under, I would have head right back
to the room. I was very pleased. I played very good on the front and kind of pittered on
the back, but I was pleased with the way I played. 
 
Q. What were your expectations coming into the week?
 
 JULI INKSTER: I felt like, you know, if I am playing good, I feel like I can compete
with anybody. I wasn't real happy with the way I was hitting the ball, but I don't know,
sometimes when a tournament starts your swing comes back, so I mean, I wasn't really going
into it knocking the pins down, but I still felt confident enough that I could get
something going. 
 
Q. What do you think your chances are for Player-of-the-Year and the money title?
 
 JULI INKSTER: Slim, but I thought it was slim coming in here. I never give up, so just
going to keep firing at the pins and I am going to need a good low round to get back into
this thing. 
 
Q. What happened yesterday?
 
 JULI INKSTER: I don't know. I guess someone said that, one, that when I went to tap it
in, I missed it; tapped it again, and the other one said that it looked like my feet were
behind my ball. But, you know, I think I would have remembered if I missed it. I know my
feet weren't behind the ball. I just wanted to make sure, look at the tapes, make sure
that everything was on the up and up and it was. 
 
Q. Does that annoy you at all?
 
 JULI INKSTER: Yeah, it is annoying because, you know, you just -- you just want to make
sure everything is right. This game is an integrity game and I just want to make sure I do
the right thing. I think I was more (inaudible) last night than over my illness but once I
looked at the tapes and Karrie was right there with me and we just, you know, it was just
one of those things someone said they thought they saw something and it just wasn't there. 
 
Q. When did you find out about it?
 
 JULI INKSTER: When I got off the 18th green Bob said 14, 14, he says remember how you
tapped it in. I says -- I thought I went down with my right hand and went down and tapped
it in. But looking at the tapes, Karrie says I wasn't watching and so we went back to the
tapes and she is watching it and I hit it with my left hand. So it is just, you know, it
is hard to remember those things, but looking at the tapes, it looked pretty much on the
up and up. 
 
Q. If you don't win the money title and Player-of-the-Year you have to feel like this
has been --
 
 JULI INKSTER: You know what, I wanted to come in here and give it a run and have a
solid tournament and believe me I am still trying to win this thing. If I don't win it, I
have had a great year. Karrie has had a fantastic year. We both had great years.
Especially latter part of my career, you know, it has been a year that I have always
dreamed of. Karrie is a phenomenal player and very good person and I don't have to step
back -- I don't mind stepping back and in the back seat because she is a great player. I
am just very pleased with the way I have played this year. 
 
Q. If I remember at the Solheim Cup this year a little bit of animosity, I don't
remember the circumstances, but there was a Dottie punching bag I think --
 
 JULI INKSTER: Yeah. 
 
Q. They were coming off this Ryder Cup, clearly from animosity over different
circumstances. Do you think golf is headed especially these team matches in -- 
 
 JULI INKSTER: I think we have really gotten away from what the Ryder Cup and Solheim
Cup is all about. It is about getting two continents together and playing against each
other. It is not -- I think, nothing personal, the media and people behind it, really take
it personally if we lose, and it is a lot of pressure on these people, these guys and
these gals, to come through. And, you know, I just think it's gotten out of hand. The
Europeans, we see them every week. I mean, it is not like the guys were -- they play there
12 tournaments -- we see the Europeans every week. So, I mean, it is like a whole year of
buildup of we are going to beat you; no, we are going to beat you. It is really two years
of bragging rights, and that is what I play for. I don't -- if I go out and play against
the Europeans and they beat me, they have a better day, we will shake their hands and move
on. But I think it's gotten too, I don't know, the word -- too callous, too much. It
shouldn't be that big a deal. It should be a fun event. It shouldn't be that
pressure-packed. 
 
Q. Exhibition, we can call it-- just kidding --
 
 JULI INKSTER: It is not -- you know, what happened on the 17th hole of the Ryder Cup,
that is just pure emotion and Dottie, I played with Dottie. Dottie did nothing wrong. I
mean, we are own the 18th hole, I have got a long putt, I knock it up there about this
far. As far as I am concerned, if the Europeans didn't want everybody to clap, they should
have not given it to her and had her mark it. They give Dottie the putt and she is walking
back towards me like this - anybody would do it; then the crowd got into it. But, you
know, it is water under the bridge and you move on. Whatever Dottie does every little
thing is magnified. I guess that is why -- that is why you love to have her on your team;
you hate to play against her. She is a Danny Ainge of the LPGA. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT