PAGENET CHAMPIONSHIP
November 9, 1999
Juli Inkster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JULI INKSTER: Well, considering it has been quite a year for me and it has been quite a
year for Karrie. It's been a very friendly rivalry. And she has had an awesome year and I
have had an awesome year. I don't even know point-wise if it's even possible for me to
catch her. Right now I am trying to get my game ready for this week and see how I can do.
I am not one to put any extra pressure on myself or anything like that. I am just going to
go out there and keep doing what I have been doing all year.

Q. How many weeks off have you had?

JULI INKSTER: I have had three weeks off. I went to my caddie's wedding in Virginia
Beach the first week. My kid was the flower girl so that was kind of cool. And the last
two weeks, I have no idea what I did with time. I couldn't believe it was time to go
again. Just going to my kids' games and carpooling, and just being a mom, which is great.

Q. How much golf did you play?

JULI INKSTER: Not much. I knew Mike was going to be out here, my coach, I didn't want
to lose any bad habits. So I kind of went and fiddled with my short game; worked on my
putting a little bit; played probably twice. Played one 9-hole and one 18-hole. I needed a
break. I was playing a lot. It was time to have some time off.

Q. Player of the year was not your number one goal?

JULI INKSTER: Well, coming in this year if someone would have said you are going to win
two majors and three tournaments, five total, I would have said: " I will take
it." I am really not one to really sit on my laurels. I am very competitive and I
like to play well and I like to work at trying to play well. So coming in this year, my
goal wasn't to win, win, win. I was just trying to improve my game. I think that is what I
am still trying to do, trying to improve my game to -- it is great to be able to contend,
and if I happen to do it, it is great. But I am sure Karrie is going to go out there and
play well too, so it is going to be tough. But the way my year is going, I wouldn't count
me out.

Q. Would you have guessed when you teed it up for the first tournament this year that
you would have a chance in the last tournament to be the Player-of-the-Year?

JULI INKSTER: No. The last couple of years, I played really well; being a mom and all
my other outside activities, I finished fifth on the money list twice and I felt like I
was really playing well, playing consistent golf, but the one thing I was missing was a
win. And I felt like there were a lot of tournaments that I had a chance to win that I let
get away. This year, I said, if I had a chance, if I was playing well and was the same
chance I would play more aggressive on Sunday and really make myself go out and play
aggressive to try to win the tournament, instead of maybe just trying to finish in the
Top-10.

Q. Given that year, how are you approaching 2000?

JULI INKSTER: Probably the same way. It's a Solheim Cup year and that is my favorite
time of the year. I just love it. I am going to probably play just a little less this year
probably maybe instead-- this is my 24th tournament, probably be able to play 20 or 21
next year. But I am definitely going to play a full schedule. I feel like I am getting
better, and I feel like my game is better and my mental attitude is better, and I just
don't feel -- my competitiveness is still there. Even though I am in the Hall of Fame, it
is really hard for me to feel like I am in the Hall of Fame. I don't feel like I am. So I
am going to go out there and try win as many as I can next year.

Q. Do you think at some point that reality will catch up with you --

JULI INKSTER: I don't know if it's reality. I think this is reality. I think I'm a good
player, and I think I deserve to be where I am at. But as far as trimming my schedule down
and stuff like that, I probably say the following year I would probably would want to play
15 to 18 tournaments. I love golf. I love practicing. I love competing. I think it has
been great that I have taken time off to really know this is what I want to do, having
kids, and I feel like I had one career, and now I think I have grown to having a second
career. I still really love doing what I do.

Q. Has there been a downside to it in the sense of all the attention that you have
gotten; has that taken away with your family...

JULI INKSTER: Yeah. I am used to going home and not hearing from anybody which is
great. Now, it is a lot more stipulations on my time, a lot of things that I never had to
worry about that I have to worry about. So my time management, I definitely need to
improve on and try to coordinate things where for maybe a day I get it all in and I have
the rest of the week to do nothing. But it is something I really have never gone through.
Golf right now is huge and I am happy to be a part of it. If you are Playing well, things
come with it?

Q. Are you recognized more often in California when you are out and about?

JULI INKSTER: Yeah, I am definitely recognized more.

Q. What do people say to you for example?

JULI INKSTER: "Great year." You know, "You are my favorite. We have been
rooting for you." My girls appreciate look outside and say how do they know you.

Q. How many of the par 5s can you reach here?

JULI INKSTER: Let's see, 10 you can. 5, I don't think I can reach 5 but Laura probably
could. Kelly would probably be close. 9 I can't. Laura can. And 15, I can't.

Q. What do you think of the course?

JULI INKSTER: I like this golf course. I play well on this golf course. The weather
seems to be -- knock-on-wood -- always pretty good. This golf course you definitely have
to take advantage of the par 5s.

Q. Any predictions on the course?

JULI INKSTER: What won it last year.

Q. 12 I think.

JULI INKSTER: All depends on the wind, but I would say 12 to 15.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT