DU MAURIER CLASSIC
July 31, 1999
Juli Inkster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JULI INKSTER:  Basically I thought I hit the ball better today.  I didn't putt as well as I have been putting.  I was above the hole a lot on my birdie putts.  I thought I drove the ball better today.  I thought I hit my irons better.  I mean, out of the first 10 holes, I was in four divots on the fairway, so that kind of -- it is kind of hard to play from there.  But other than that, I don't know, I just -- I didn't think I played that bad.  I think I was kind of overreading the putts a little bit today, but I don't know what to say really, because I just -- I thought I played really better than I played yesterday, but it just didn't get the same results. 
 

Q.  Conditions today, the change to the cold and weather?
 
JULI INKSTER:  I thought the course played great.  I thought it was in good shape, greens were nice.  I thought the pin placements were fair.  I just kind of got off to a bad start in the fairways and just kind of had a hard time.  You know, when you are hitting it out of the sand divots, it is kind of hard. 
 

Q.  (inaudible)
 
JULI INKSTER:  I was in on 3, 4, 5, and 10, so then other three are par 3s.  So really -- so I mean, that is going to happen.  That is part of golf, but I don't think I have ever been in four of them in one round. 
 

Q.  No trouble, though, getting loose in terms --
 
JULI INKSTER:  No, not at all.  In fact, I thought we were extremely lucky this morning.  When we woke up, it was raining, and I just thought it was going to be a long day out there.  Come tee-off time, I thought it was perfect. 
 

Q.  You said you had a lot of birdie putts above the hole, whatnot.  When you still have a lot of good chances and they don't go in, does that wear on you?
 
JULI INKSTER:  Well, I don't know.  I have been putting so good that I just -- I really can't let it wear on me, because I feel like I am stroking it good.  Some days you can really see the line, and other days it is kind of like you can't see it.  I just feel like that was one of these days.  I just was having trouble picking my spot out and stroking it there.  But you know what?  I am encouraged the way I hit the ball.  I hit it a lot better today.  I am 4 back, but I think I am capable of going out there and shooting a good score tomorrow. 
 

Q.  Did you work with Mike, get you straightened out?
 
JULI INKSTER:  I called him, but Brian -- we kind of figured out what I needed to do.  I just -- just trying to work on some side hills, trying to get my hands out on my swing a little bit.  But I did call him and ask him. 
 

Q.  When you walked off 15, you were 5 strokes behind at that point.  Has your success in recent months, has that at all affected your ability to play through a situation like that?
 
JULI INKSTER:  Yeah, I think so.  I just know that I am capable of shooting some good scores and I'm capable of getting  that putter going.  I just was just like this all day (indicating an inch), just a little bit off.  Thus, the 74.  So it is my first over-par round in a while.  And hopefully it is my last in a while.  I will go out there tomorrow, and I look forward to trying to play a little better tomorrow. Score a little better. 
 

Q.  Which golfer has surprised you in this tournament?
 
JULI INKSTER:  I don't know, looks like a pretty impressive leaderboard.  Any golfer out there that is out here is capable of playing well.  As far as -- I really don't -- 
 

Q.  What about Dawn Coe-Jones, what has made the difference for her?
 
JULI INKSTER:  She seems to be hitting the ball fairly well.  She is putting good.  She had a lot of long putts that she 2-putted today.  So she is just picking her spots and playing very consistent. 
 

Q.  Laura?
 
JULI INKSTER:  Laura is playing very well. She is going to be a tough one to beat. 
 

Q.  As long as she is, when she gets it going like this (inaudible) --
 
JULI INKSTER:  I mean, I can't play her game.  I have got to my game.  She likes to overpower these par 5s which she is capable of doing, but I -- just she is playing very well and she is putting well, so she is going to be tough to beat.  I think she is the one -- she is leading, but still sometimes you get a leader and you think that you are still okay.  But she is going to be tough to beat. 
 

Q.  How aware have you been that you hadn't been over par since April?
 
JULI INKSTER:  Well, thanks to you guys, I am very aware of it.  It is a privilege of having the media around.  They let you know.  So I knew. 
 

Q.  Is it significant then --
 
JULI INKSTER:  No, not really.  I go out there trying to shoot under par every week.  It is just something it doesn't work out. 
 

Q.  First time around without a Canadian --
 
JULI INKSTER:  (laughs) That is right.  I got an Australian, so what the heck. 
 

Q.  Any advantage tomorrow of maybe in the second to last group?
 
JULI INKSTER:  I think it is a good spot to be in.  I have won quite a few tournaments in that second to last group. Plus I am playing with Karrie and I think Cristie Kerr, so it will be a good pairing.  3, I hit in two, hit 5-iron out of a divot onto the green.  Two putted.  I sunk about a 2-footer for birdie.  4, I hit 6-iron to the right, chipped out of the rough, and missed about a 15-footer for par.  7, I drove it in the rough, hit out in the rough.  Hit on and 2-putted for bogey from about 25 feet.  10, I chunked a 9-iron just short, hit out about 30 feet,  2-putted from 30 feet.  14, I hit pretty good iron in there, just went a little left, just short, chipped up and missed about a 2-footer for par. Made bogey there.  16, I hit 7-iron in there about eight feet; made that for birdie. 
 

Q.  You said at the Open that it was your tournament to lose, a lot of pressure that way.  LPGA was different because it was anybody's tournament.  What is this one?
 
JULI INKSTER:  Well, I have been the leader.  I have been in the hunt and now I am coming from behind, so if you can win all three you might as well do it a little different each time.  So I am going to have to go out there and shoot a real good score tomorrow because I just don't see Laura backing up.  She can play these par 5s.  She has got the length.  But that is why they make it a 72-hole tournament. 
 

Q.  Is it possible in these tournaments to find out something different about yourself?
 
JULI INKSTER:  Yeah. 
 

Q.  What have you learned?
 
JULI INKSTER:  Not to shoot 74s.  (laughs).  I don't know, I just -- I am just happy the way I am handling everything. I like my attitude.  I like my position.  I am enjoying -- I am trying to enjoy it. 
 

Q.  You been able to put the thoughts of the third major, Hall of Fame, out of your mind.  Now that you are coming into Sunday does that enter into your thought process?
 
JULI INKSTER:  No, I think it would if I was tied for the lead or in the lead or whatever, I think that would weigh on me. Being this far back, I have got a lot of work to do before I can think about -- before I can think about that. 
 

Q.  Karrie Webb talked about being a little more aggressive knowing what was happening if the lead (inaudible) she was feeling more confident making some birdies.  When you look at them in front of you tomorrow, will you be watching everything?
 
JULI INKSTER:  Oh, yeah, I always watch -- always peak make sure what is going on and who is doing what.  These are great leaderboards out here, they keep you up-to-date.  So, yeah, I will be watching.  I think -- it is important to get out and try to get a good start, but if you don't just -- thing with me, I feel like I can roll off a few birdies in a row.  I am just going to go out there and try to hit a lot of greens tomorrow and try to give myself some chances. 
 

Q.  Other thing is everybody seems to have had one pretty good round, 65, 66, 67, but then they sort of get back to the 72 --
 
JULI INKSTER:  Yeah. 
 

Q.  Any sense of why that happens?
 
JULI INKSTER:  Well, I just think you get going the right direction and it is, you know, it loosens you up a little bit, able to play a little freer.  The thing is, I mean, if you play par 5s out here, you can shoot 67, 65.  You got 5 of them.  Really only one - except  Laura -- Laura almost reached 9 today - is reachable.  So if you birdie all those, that is how you get the low scores. 
 

Q.  Par 5s are key tomorrow?
 
JULI INKSTER:  Very much so. 
 

Q.  Laura has the biggest advantage, do you think?
 
JULI INKSTER:  What do you think?  (laughs) I think so. I think so.  Definitely. 
 

Q.  What score do you need?
 
JULI INKSTER:  I am going to have to shoot probably 65, 64, something like that.  65 would -- 65 I think would give you a good shot. 
 

Q.  How would you rate this course compared to the other ones in Canada the past years?
 
JULI INKSTER:  I think this is one of the best ones we have played as far as toughness, as far as the way it is run.  I mean, the volunteers have been just awesome, from the locker room people, the transportation people, and it is a beautiful scenery, I mean, I think it has been great. 
 

Q.  Is it tougher  or --
 
JULI INKSTER:  It is tougher.  The rough is up.  The greens are hard.  I definitely think it is tougher. 
 

Q.  How about the level of difficulty compared to the other 3 majors this year?
 
JULI INKSTER:  I think this is the toughest one.  Been the toughest one -- but I think Mississippi would have been tough if the weather wasn't what it was, with the rain and everything, because Sunday the greens were drying out and only five or six people broke par.  I think that one and this one have been really tough. 
 

Q.  Possibility of rain tomorrow.  Do you see that as being an equalizer for you in term of catching Laura?
 
JULI INKSTER:  I don't know, I just -- I can't worry about her.  I think with her length, it would help her if it rained tomorrow. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT