U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 3, 1999
Juli Inkster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JULI INKSTER:  Basically, I played very consistent.  I didn't make a bogey today.  I drove the ball extremely well.  Front side, I scored good. I didn't hit my irons as well as I have been.  On the back side, I hit my irons very well coming in.  I think the key to my round today was definitely my driving of the ball and my putting, my long putts and my birdie putts.  The speed was very good today; and so I mean, I birdied the last two holes, and I'm right where I want to be.


Q.  The numbers that you're seeing on the boards, the 8s, the 7s, the 5s -- this is the U.S. Open, and these are numbers we're not supposed to be seeing. What do you think?

JULI INKSTER:  I think the greens are holding extremely well.  I think that's one reason why.  I think the par 5s, you know you can birdie out here.  I think that's where you have to take advantage of the golf course.  Greens are rolling very true.  Not a lot of undulation.  They are rolling pretty sure.  It's in excellent shape.  I think all of those combinations together -- I don't think the winds blew as much as it usually does out here.  I think that makes for good scoring.


Q.  (Inaudible.)

JULI INKSTER:  After playing the course for a couple days, I knew under par would definitely win this golf tournament.  If you told me I'd shoot 7-under and be one shot back, I'd probably question you.  But there's a lot of good golfers out there, and there's a lot of good golfers that are two, three,  four under par or even par, and post a number like I did today or Kelli did.  We're a long way from the finish.  I like the way I'm playing.  I like my attitude out there.  I'm looking forward to the next three days.


Q.  Do you find the heat and humidity to make your round easier to play?

JULI INKSTER:  Well, it's hot out there, and you know, we had a delay out there.  We were all three of us were searching for the shade.  But I think the ball carries farther.  Seem to be hitting a little farther with the humidity and the heat.  But I would much rather play in this weather than play in cold weather.  So I think it's fine.


Q.  You took some time off leading up to the Open and didn't play a heavy schedule in May.  Is that a factor?  Is it something you were really gearing up for?

JULI INKSTER:  Well, this is the first time? I mean, all the other Opens I always took the week prior to the U.S. Open off, and a lot of that had to do with family scheduling and not my scheduling.  You know, I played a lot at the end of the year, and I played a lot at the start of this year, so I just felt like I needed some time off coming into June, because June is a very big month.  I feel rested.  I don't feel tense out there.  I've got a good mind.  I think the time off has helped me as far as my golf game.


Q.  Can you describe 17 and 18?

JULI INKSTER:  17, I hit 7-iron about 10 feet.  It was right-to-left putt and made it.  And then 18, I hit 5-wood off the tee.  I hit it through further there than I wanted to.  I just got it in the right rough.  I hit a great 6-iron out there about 10 feet and made that for birdie.  So it was a little left-to-right.  It was a good finish, and the speed of my putts were great today.  I think that's why I made some.


Q.  Obviously, you were very, very comfortable with the putter today and you had a good eye.  Your thoughts there. 

JULI INKSTER:  Yeah, I did.  I felt very comfortable with my putter.  My putter has been good lately.  The speed of my putts have been good lately, and I think that's -- the speed of the putts, I made a long one on No. 5 today.  Probably 35 feet.  But the speed was perfect.  And you're going to get more putts to go in that way than if you're knocking past the hole.


Q.  I told you I have never seen you so relaxed during a golf tournament or major, especially, and the other thing I have to wonder about:  You did some TV work awhile back as a, you know, analyst and different things like this.  Did you see some things out there that you said:  Oh, that's stupid.  I'll never do that.  Did you take anything away from that, that you had incorporated into your game?  Your course management nowadays is great.

JULI INKSTER:  I think after doing the TV, I did it for the Solheim Cup and for the Tournament of Champions.  I think after I did that, I said:  Well, I need to get out and practice, because I'm not very good at this TV stuff.  But, you know, you do learn a lot.  I think it makes you -- I knew that's not what I wanted to do at the time.  You know, I wasn't playing very well at the time and I kind of -- I kind of said, you know:  I've either got to rededicate myself or do this TV work.  And I just felt like I wanted to prove myself after I had my family, that I could come back here and be a top player again.  Will I ever be the top player?  Probably not.  But if I can just come out here and be a player that people respect as they play, I think that's what I strove for.  I think right now that's where I'm at. I feel like right now every time I tee up, I have just as good a chance as anyone else to win that.  Will I win?  You've got to get some breaks. I've learned a lot.  I've learned how to manage my game a little better.  I think the reason why is I'm hitting it better.  When you're hitting it better, you can manage your game better.


Q.  Having been in this position, you've  contended in a lot of majors.  Is your mindset, realizing you've still got three days to play, an advantage for you?

JULI INKSTER:  I don't know.  Somebody asked me that out there, and, you know, Kelli is playing great right now and she's got a great mindset.  She's got great course management.  Moira, she hits the ball long and she can take advantage of these par 5s.  I think it's just going to come down to -- three days out here is a lot of golf, and you can post a good first round and not ever be seen from again.  So I am not really too excited or too down either way about my round.  There's a lot of good players out there that are right behind me.  Karrie can come out here and shoot a 62 out here tomorrow. There's just a lot of good players out there capable of shooting good rounds.  I'm very happy with the way I played today, and if I could-- tied take three more of those and go on my way.  (Laughs.)  But we'll see what happens.

JULI INKSTER:  No.


Q.  I noticed you were hitting the ball straighter and longer than anyone in a threesome today.  How far is your average drive?

JULI INKSTER:  I hit a lot of 3-woods on the back side just for position.  But, I don't know.  I'd say probably, I don't know, 260, 250, something like that.  But I hit a lot of 3-woods on the back side just to get the ball on the fairway and give myself a shot at some birdies.  My 3-wood goes a long ways for a 3-wood.  I really don't lose that much hitting 3-wood off the tee.  I probably hit that 235, something like that. That's perfect.

JULI INKSTER:  No. 2, I hit driver 3-wood and I was just short.  I chipped up and made about a four-footer for birdie.   No. 5, I hit a driver, 7-iron, and had about a 35-footer, and I made that.  So that was kind of a welcome putt right there.  No. 6, I hit 3-wood, pitching wedge about 12 feet and made that for birdie.  No. 9, I hit driver 3-wood, and that was about 30 yards short.  Probably about 45 yards short shot and hit it to about two feet and made that for birdie.  14, I had -- I hit 3-wood off the tee and had 104 yards, and I hit a little pitching wedge and almost hit it in the hole and spun back for two feet and made that for birdie.  15 I let get away.  I hit 7-wood and just started thinking too much.  So I two putted on 15 which was kind of a birdie hole.  And 17 and 18, I went over those.


Q.  Have you been to Mississippi before this?

JULI INKSTER:  No.  I never get invited.


Q.  Hot enough for you?

JULI INKSTER:  Yeah, it's hot.  Beats July you, though, I think.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT