U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 1, 1999
Juli Inkster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 JULI INKSTER: I feel good going into this week. I think at the Open you've got to do
everything good. You've got to get some breaks. You've got to make some pars where you
don't think you're going to make pars. But, you know, as far as my game, I've played once
in the last four weeks. I'm very rested. I don't know, I feel good. I feel like I can
score on this golf course. And I feel if I can hit a bad shot, I can get away with it and
still make par. 
 
 JULI INKSTER: I'm getting a lot of sleep, which is great. I don't know. It's hard.
Wendy's last week of school is this week, and Cori's last week of school is next week, and
Brian has got the Invitational. It's just a bad time for them. I'm just out for one. I
like having them around. I don't focus on golf so much when they are around. I can get
away from it. When you're in your room all by yourself, you have a tendency to stew on the
bad side more than I would if the kids were out here. But c'est la vie; move on. 
 
Q. Do you think anyone is going to be waving a white flag this week?
 
 JULI INKSTER: It's a completely different golf course than last year's course. I
thought last year's course, it was just tough. It was a great Match Play course. But medal
play, I thought it was just too tough. I think this golf course, you can make some birdies
out here, but I still think it's got the toughness. If the wind blows, that makes it
tricky. But I think this is a little better test.  
 
Q. Where is the toughness?
 
 JULI INKSTER: I think you've got holes on -- I think 4 and 5 are good holes. I think
the par 3s are great out here. I think 11 is a great hole. I think if you're going to play
this golf course you have to take advantage of the par 5s. You can make some birdies on
the par 5s. 
 
Q. When you first came out here walking around playing your practice rounds, did you
feel like you were at a Women's Open venue compared to last year?
 
 JULI INKSTER: Not compared to last year. No. Last year was not only getting the ball on
the green but it was like once you're on the green, then the game began. And most of us
didn't get it on in regulation; so then we had a tough time. But, you know, severity-wise,
this is not as severe as last year's course. But that's the beauty of a U.S. Open. This
changes every year. And one course might not suit one person, but the next year it might
suit them. So you've just got to go out there and get what the course gives you. I think
this course you can play more aggressive on. You don't need to play as conservative as you
did on last year's course. 
 
Q. You're having a great year this year and the few times I've seen you, you seem more
relaxed, and I just wonder, are we talking and looking at a more patient Juli Inkster,
somebody who's not going to be down on herself so much?
 
 JULI INKSTER: I don't know. I don't think I've changed that much. The last three years,
I've had good years. I finished sixth last two years on the money list. This year is good.
I think I'm just more confident in my golf game. I know if I start off bad, I can come
back and make it up. And I think I'm just being more patient out there, and I am enjoying
it more. When you're playing better, you enjoy it more. And I don't think I'm taking it
week to week, life-and-death situations as I have been. 
 
Q. Last year Se Ri Pak was a new face. She has been around for a while. Can you tell us
how she has acclimated to your TOUR. Is she getting to know the players better?
 
 JULI INKSTER: Se Ri, you see her kind of as media, but she's got a great personality.
She came in here and knew what she could do, but she also respected the older players. I
think she's fit in great. I think it's great for her, too, to have her out here. She's a
phenomenal player. You know, this year I think there is a lot of pressure on her to come
out and play well at the end. And if, you guys know in golf, it's just not that easy to
keep it going year to year to year. And you've got to still remember, she's young. I'm
just worried more about her getting burned out than her golf game. I'd like to see her
just take some time off and not play as much and enjoy what she's got. 
 
Q. Does she seem to be doing that now?
 
 JULI INKSTER: I think she is. I think she's enjoying herself more out here. She's not
-- her life haven't -- I mean even though it is golf-oriented, she is getting out more and
enjoying our country more, and I think that's good for her, good for her mindset. 
 
Q. Can you talk a little bit about Nancy; and how hard it might be to want something
this bad?
 
 JULI INKSTER: Well, I played nine holes with Nancy. I think she's hitting good. She
seems like she's putting well. I think she's got all the capabilities of doing it. But as
I said in the beginning, you've just got to have all the arrows pointing in your
direction. You just can't make too many mistakes out there, and then she said she's been
making little mistakes and she usually doesn't. I think Nancy has a great shot of being in
contention and winning this thing. You know, she wants it bad, but I can think of about
148 other women that want it bad, too. I think if she just goes out there and plays her
own game, she's got a great shot. 
 
Q. Talk about last year and you mentioned Se Ri Pak. The other story was Jenny
Chuasiriporn. This is her first pro tournament. How do you feel about her?
 
 JULI INKSTER: She's a great amateur player. I haven't seen her game. I don't know what
her strengths or weaknesses are. She's a great amateur player. I don't think she'll have
too much trouble just fitting right in. You know, I think it's hard playing week-in and
week-out. I know that's what I struggled with coming out here. I liked to play Match Play,
because that's all the amateur tournaments were. She's just got to get used to playing
week-in and week-out. She's got a great head on her shoulders. Most of the girls come out
here that have a great head on her shoulders, she's going to do very well. 
 
Q. Do you think the expectations are unrealistic?
 
 JULI INKSTER: I don't know what her expectations are. I think she's got capabilities of
making a run for it. But will she do it? I don't know. I think if she finishes in the
Top-20, I think that's a great tournament. 
 
 JULI INKSTER: I was my own worst enemy. I wanted to come out here and win right away.
She said the same thing. I was all-American at San Jose State, and that's medal play. I
think you've just got to play your own game and come out here and I was in awe of the
other players. I respected what they did, but on the other hand I knew that I could
compete with them. That's kind of the approach Jenny has to take and Grace Park has to
take. I know deep down inside they know they can compete with us, and it's just learning
the ropes and getting some experience. 
 
Q. Regarding the tournament, is it gentleman want to say frustration, but you seem in
good spirits. What's the sense you're getting of seeing younger players like Se Ri Pak and
Jenny doing so well whereas you and Nancy have had to fight for so long to get to this
point? 
 
 JULI INKSTER: You know, I look back at my career, and, you know, the '92 Open was
really tough. I still think about it a lot. I would not trade my career for anything. I've
got two great kids. I've got a great husband that's very supportive. I've won 19
tournaments, three majors. I just think when you grow up as a little kid, you want to win
the U.S. Open. That's what you practice for. That's what you watch. That's what you see.
And, you know, I think to get your name engraved on that trophy is the ultimate. If I
don't get it done, I gave it my best shot and tried my best. It just didn't happen. You
know, I think it's great that the younger players are coming out. I know when I came out
and got coached by the older players and now they are -- it's tough. With the foreign
invasion and the amateurs coming up, you've got to stay on top of your game to compete out
here. I'm just proud of myself that I can still do that; still compete out here; still
have my family and enjoy it. 
 
Q. You said there was talk about top players lacking personality. What was your
personal reaction?
 
 JULI INKSTER: That was a good week to take off. I was off that week. (Laughter.) I
really don't think you can tell a top player changed their attitude on the golf course.
That would be like us going in and telling you guys you need to write different; you need
to be a little more serious out there instead of being a jokester. You need to joke up
your articles a little bit. I don't think you can tell somebody how to play the game. I
think the top players, Annika, Karrie and Kelly, you've got to realize, they are young,
and they are learning all this. They are foreign. Annika and Karrie are foreign. They
haven't been over here. Personally, I think they do a great job. I know them being a top
player, when they are on the driving range and someone comes up and says: Hey, can I have
10 minutes of your time and somebody else comes up to them, they are trying to do their
job. Personally, I don't think you can try to change somebody's personality. I think this
is their job. You know, this is how they play. I don't think you can change that. I think
they are doing a good job, and I think as they get older, they are going to get better. I
think as you mature and they understand that we really need them to take it to the next
level, I mean, you're never going to have another Nancy Lopez. She's the ultimate. And I
just think if the girls can take a little bit of responsibility on their shoulders, and
between the four and five of them carry the TOUR, I think they can do that. Between Se Ri
and Annika, I think they can do it. 
 
Q. I'm guessing you were probably 11 or 12 years old and Nancy was 18 and finished
second in the 1975 open. Do you have any recollection?
 
 JULI INKSTER: I don't. I really don't. I just started golfing at 15; so I wasn't really
focused on that. But I remember Pumpkin Ridge, and she played her heart out. That's the
thing with golf. There is one person that plays just a little better, and you get that
close at her age, you just don't know if you're ever going to get another opportunity. And
I think that's why it hurts so bad is you just don't know if you're going to get another
course that fits your game, or that you're playing that well coming into that. When I lost
the '92 Open, just in the back of your mind you say well I'll have another shot but you
just don't know. 
 
Q. People have said, for example, Elway never got that Super Bowl title. What do you
think it means to Nancy and other players --
 
 JULI INKSTER: As far as players, I don't think it means anything as far as how I think
of Nancy. I think that maybe she would think -- to me, she's done it all. She's had her
family. She's played great golf. I don't know sometimes how she gives everyone the
attention that she gives them and still is the same person. You know, I just think -- I
don't think I'd treat her any different and would still give her a hard time after she won
the U.S. Open. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT