SOLHEIM CUP
August 17, 2017
Annika Sorenstam
Juli Inkster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome back our two captains, United States team captain Juli Inkster and European team captain Annika Sorenstam. Annika, opening match at 8:10?a.m.   
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: From Europe Mel Reid and Charley Hull.   
JULI INKSTER: Cristie Kerr and Lexi Thompson.   
THE MODERATOR: Match 2 at 8:22.   
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: It's going to be Carlota Ciganda and Caroline Masson.   
JULI INKSTER: It's going to be, let's see, who do I have as second? Danielle Kang and Lizette Salas.   
THE MODERATOR: Match 3, 8:36?a.m.   
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Anna Nordqvist and Georgia Hall.   
JULI INKSTER: And I have Austin Ernst and Paula Creamer.   
THE MODERATOR: Match 4 at 8:48.   
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: We have Karine Icher and Catriona Matthew.   
JULI INKSTER: And I have Stacy Lewis and Gerina Piller.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions?   
 Q.  The toughest call usually is who you have to sit right off the bat. Can you talk about the thought process there and how did you tell them?  
JULI INKSTER: I just went over my game plan as far as what I was thinking, and they're all cool. I don't really want to have to play somebody five matches. So someone's going to have to sit sometimes. And I want everybody to try to play at least three matches. Like they qualified, I'd like to get everybody in there. And so that was kind of my thinking.   
 Q.  Did they take it okay?  
JULI INKSTER: Oh, yeah.   
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: We decided that we wanted to have one rookie in the morning, which is Georgia. So we decided to go out with some more veteran players early on that have been around. And we shared our philosophy early on and they're going with our plan.   
 Q.  That first tee shot is going to be a doozy. Did anybody ask for it, raise their hand and say I want to go first?  
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I had players that wanted to go. A lot of them want to go out first. And so we decided on Mel and Charley. They were excited to go first, set the pace.   
 Q.  Was Kerr excited about it?  
JULI INKSTER: I didn't have anybody raise their hand. As Annika said, I wanted to get a veteran team out there first and see what happens.   
 Q.  Just in general, both of you have talked about how the week ramps up. Tonight's the opening ceremonies; it seems to really get real. What are the butterflies like as captains now as you're on the eve of starting the Solheim Cup?  
JULI INKSTER: I don't know about Annika, but we're just ready to get it going. It's been a year and a half preparing for this. And I know the players have probably been here since Sunday and they're ready to go.   
So it's great seeing all the crowds out here today. So kind of we're ready to play for them. So I'm looking forward for tomorrow, and I think we're going to have a lot of great matches.   
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I feel the same way. Of course, I think butterflies for anybody. This is my first captaincy, so you just want to make sure you've thought of everything and you're ready to go.   
I think the players are just rallying around each other. We feel very comfortable what we have and our plan. And just knowing what to do makes things easier; you don't have to worry about the unexpected or any surprises. We're ready to go as well.   
It's a long week, especially when it comes Sunday. It's probably a few days earlier than you normally come to another tournament. So the players are ready. They feel excited. But it's a thrill to be here.   
Every day there's something fun to experience, whether it's the gala dinner and then today obviously the opening ceremony. It's a treat to be here, and I think the players are looking forward to that being part of the whole celebration of the Solheim Cup.   
 Q.  Juli, it looked like you were not only coaching your players a little bit, but you were coaching the fans how to be loud on that first tee a little bit, too?  
JULI INKSTER: I wasn't. I don't think I have to coach them. I think they're ready to go.   
 Q.  How constant do you want that sound out there to just kind of get into the heads on the first tee of the European players?  
JULI INKSTER: Well, I think it's going to get in the heads of my players, too. We're not really used to playing in front of that many people. I think it's going to be a good contingent from Europe and they're pretty boisterous. I think it's great for women's golf. And I think it's great for them.   
They've worked two hard years to get here. And it's a great experience, it's an experience that they'll have for their lifetime. And so I'm looking forward to them experiencing that.   
 Q.  Juli, how much did your philosophy change from Germany in regards to the selection of the pairings you have today?  
JULI INKSTER: I really didn't do anything different there that I did now. So it didn't change at all. I mean, I haven't changed my philosophy in pairings.   
 Q.  Do you intend to play everybody on day one?  
JULI INKSTER: Yes.   
 Q.  Annika? You don't have to say obviously.  
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Yeah, I won't say.   
JULI INKSTER: So I had to say? (Laughter) That's okay. I don't care. It doesn't matter to me. I'm not playing against them.   
 Q.  Juli, was there any hesitation, not just playing Lexi in the morning, but playing her first in the morning with this virus that she?--  
JULI INKSTER: She's fine. She's fine.   
 Q.  But was that a factor?  
JULI INKSTER: No. I asked her if she had any issues to come up and tell me. I didn't hear from her. I think she's good to go.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT