SWINGING SKIRTS LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY CTBC
April 20, 2016
Juli Inkster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So you won in 1982 at Sahalee.  What do you remember about that?  
JULI INKSTER: I did.  I remember the golf course was really, really tight and it was really, really wet.   
But, yeah, it was a great golf course.  I love it up there.  Can't wait to get back.  I hear they've taken out a lot trees and stuff, but can't wait to get back.   
 Q.  Also won twice at the Safeco Classic.  Had a lot of success up there.  
JULI INKSTER: I have.   
 Q.  Just the type of courses up there?  
JULI INKSTER: Yeah, tree-lined, old-school golf courses like I grew up on.  In fact, my first victory ever was the Safeco Classic in 1983.  Beat Kathy Whitwoth.  She wasn't happy.   
Yeah, I remember it up there.  I loved going up there.  It was getting crowded then.  I can't imagine now.   
 Q.  What do you think of this course?  
JULI INKSTER: This courses is playing tough.  It's the toughest I've seen it play.  I've always wondered what this course would play firm and fast, and it's firm and fast.   
I don't think the scores will be what they were the last few years.  It's going to be a tough golf course.   
 Q.  Just because of the drought?  
JULI INKSTER: Well, I came here a week ago Sunday and played and it was wet.  I just don't think we've had any rain this week and they've dried it out a little bit and the rough is up.  You got your work cut out for you out here.   
 Q.  What do you think of Lydia's chances the 3-peat out here?  
JULI INKSTER: I would say she's got a pretty good chance.  She's doing everything pretty good right now.  She loves the golf course and this area, her game seems to be in top form.   
 Q.  Talk about what Swinging Skirts means to women's golf and this event as well.  
JULI INKSTER: It's great to have this event in this area.  The opportunity they have for the Taiwanese to come out here and play and get a taste of playing with the LPGA pros, they're really trying to grow the game over there.  The LPGA is reaping the benefits of them doing that.   
 Q.  Plans this week?  Your role here?  
JULI INKSTER: To try to win a tournament.  I'm going to play some golf.  I'm going to go to the Giants game on Friday.  Cooking some dinners for my housing.  Morgan and Gerina are staying there.  That's about it.   
 Q.  Speaking of roles, you have a lot of records you've set:  31 ones, 7 majors, but you're going to get a bobble head at the Giants game.  Does that cement your legendary status?  
JULI INKSTER: I think so.  I think I've hit the big time.  Bobble head and Solheim Cup captain really all in one year, pretty impressive.   
 Q.  Can't ask for anything more.  
JULI INKSTER: Can't ask for anything more.   
 Q.  Another role that you have is you're speaking at the executive women's day today.  What's the message you're going to deliver?  
JULI INKSTER: You know, I think being a mother and a wife and a professional golfer, everybody asks me, how you do it?  I think you can do it all.  You've just got to kind of set your priorities.  I love to talk to executive women and how they go about doing both.   
Usually when you have kids you are the caretaker and trying to bring home some bacon, so I think that it's great for us to learn from them and they can learn from us.   
Just kind of empowering women and getting them together, changing ideas, different initiatives, I think it's good for us.   
 Q.  What's the state of your game at the moment?  
JULI INKSTER: I've actually been playing pretty good.  I think I've played five tournaments and made all the cuts and finished in the 30th bracket.  I always seem to have one bad nine holes out there.  My concentration isn't what it used to be.   
I really enjoy playing and playing with these girls.  Keeps me in there so the Solheim Cup, I know how they're doing.  I feel like they can come up and talk to me, because I have a good relationship with them.  I'm looking forward to playing.  I love it up here.   
 Q.  The reception that you get with the locals, you're a fan favorite.  
JULI INKSTER: It's great.  I appreciate them coming out and watching me, too.  We've done it for a lot of years, and hopefully continue.   
 Q.  What would it mean to get a win now and be the oldest LPGA winner in history?  
JULI INKSTER: It would mean a lot, but we got a lot of golf in front of us.  I feel like I'm playing okay, so we'll see.   
 Q.  It all started when you were Juli Simpson at Harbor High School playing Pasa Tiempo.  Your memories of Santa Cruz are vivid.  
JULI INKSTER: Yes, my parents still live over there.  I played Pasa Tiempo a lot.  It was a great place for me to grow up.  Great golf course for me to learn on.  Kind of like an open golf course.   
Kind of like here:  A lot of rolling and undulation.  If you can play there you can play anywhere.   
 Q.  Comment on Lydia's 3-peat possibilities.  Everything so many coming together on Sunday you could be watching the Warriors' game together.  
JULI INKSTER: Yeah, yeah, I think we've converted her to a big Warriors fan.  She got to go meet Steph and hang out with the Warriors clan.  They're doing their thing and Lydia is doing her thing.   
She's playing great.  She's a good kid.  She's good for the LPGA.  She is doing all the right stuff.   
 Q.  Could she be the greatest woman player of all-time?  
JULI INKSTER: It's early in her career.  You got a lot of people to contend with.  You know, Annika, Mickey Wright, Pat Bradley, Kathy Whitworth.  There are a lot of great golfers.  So she's got a little ways to go but she's got a good start.   
 Q.  What about her game impresses you the most?  
JULI INKSTER: All aspects of her game are good, but I think the thing that impresses me the most is her discipline on the golf course and how she doesn't ever panic.  She's very patient for a kid that age.   
Usually kids want it right now.  She's very methodical around the golf course, plays her game, and to play with her and it's like, How did she do today?  You look up and it's 5-under.   
She's just one of those players that goes about what she's doing and doesn't really worry about anybody else.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
JULI INKSTER: She knows how to score and get the ball in the hole.  Very good course management person.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT