COATES GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY R+L CARRIERS
February 2, 2016
Juli Inkster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Happy to be joined in the media center by U. S. Solheim captain, Juli Inkster.  Juli, see the coach logo on your hat.  What does this event mean to you.
JULI INKSTER: Well, first of all, I really feel like Randy and Molly have made this kind of a family event.  You know, the players are treated great.  The food's amazing, the golf course is in great shape.  They saw a niche.  You know, Molly is a good player, and they saw a niche in the golf industry that there wasn't a lot of club selection for low handicap women golfers, and they decided to take the ball and run with it.  And you know, it's going well.  I mean they just got them in Dick's Sporting Goods stores.
So you know, getting into the golf industry is not easy, but they've got the passion for it, and you know, it takes time.  So hopefully I can just help them out any way I can.
THE MODERATOR: You were at this event last year.  Can you kind of talk about the crowd support and how great the turnout has been from the Ocala community?
JULI INKSTER: It's been fantastic.  I mean the village is right down the road.  And there are huge LPGA supporters.  I couldn't believe all the people out here last year, and I know as the tournament grows and we get more established here, that it will -- the galleries will keep growing.  So it's great for us.  Everybody loves to play in front of a gallery, and the more people out here is the better for us.
THE MODERATOR: Where do you feel that your game is at right now?
JULI INKSTER: It's -- (laughs).  It's lukewarm, but you know, last week I did some good things, and I did some not so good things.  But I think at 55 you kind of do that.  You know, I wish I could be hitting the ball a little bit better, but I feel like my short game is pretty good.  But these girls out here, they're good, and you gotta have four really good rounds of golf, and I didn't play that great on Sunday.  So I got lapped.
THE MODERATOR: We'll open it up for questions.
Q. Juli, how does the Solheim Cup victory still resonate?  How do you still feel it's a factor, especially seeing all of the players here?
JULI INKSTER: I think it's -- you know, I don't know -- I know I wake up with a smile on my face.  It was the greatest thing I've done in golf.  You know, I learned a lot about myself, I learned a lot about my team.  It was just a great experience for me.
And then to be able to do it again, you know, I'm really looking forward to it.  I thought the girls handled everything great.  I was very happy for them.  They've lost the last two years and there was a lot of pressure on them, and they came through when they needed to.
Q. In your past experiences, is a victory like that, does it carry forward for players?  Specifically, I remember Michelle Wie almost predicted that she would win after Rich Harvest Farms.  Do you see that kind of bounce for players?
JULI INKSTER: I think, yes.  I mean I think -- I'm really looking forward to Gerina (Piller) having a good year.  I just think she's finally realizing that she's a great player.  And I look for her game to -- her to get in the winner's circle.  I thought Lizette Salas played very good.  I thought Michelle played great.  Stacy Lewis played great.  Paula played great.  I think it was a big boost for Paula to play well.  There was a lot of pressure on her being the captain's pick.  And she came out and played well last week.  So I mean I think we have a lot of positive things going.
Q. Speaking of Paula, I just wondered if you could comment on the change in coaches for her and what you think that might do for her.
JULI INKSTER: Well, I mean I know David's a great coach and I know they worked together for a long time.  But sometimes it can get a little stale and sometimes -- maybe he's saying -- she's working with Gilchrist.  Maybe Gary is saying the same thing David is saying, but in a different way, so it's fresh.  And I think sometimes you just need that, you just maybe need to change it up a little bit.
So yeah, I think it's great for her.  She seems very excited to play.  And you can tell by her results last week.
Q. What's your favorite hole out here?
JULI INKSTER: I like 11.  I think 11 is cool, and I don't really like 14, but I like the looks of it.  (Laughs).  Does that make sense?  If I didn't have to play it, I'd like it.  But it's a tough hole.  But I do like 11.
Q. Juli, I'm curious about equipment and women.  What were some of the challenges for you coming up in the game without equipment specifically built for women, and the second part of that is how important is it for a company like Coates to succeed then?
JULI INKSTER: Well, I think -- on your first part, I mean I always played -- you know, I got stuck with hand-me-down clubs, men's clubs, and you know, I was always -- they didn't fit me, but I just made them work.  And nowadays with technology and TrackMan and video, you know, I know they have U. S. Kids for kids these days, and I think that's a great product.
They have men's clubs, they have seniors' clubs, but they don't have women's clubs.  And there's a lot of women that play golf, and there's a lot of women that are swinging their husband's hand-me-downs or their son's hand-me-downs.  And I think in order to get better, you gotta have equipment that fits.  And I hope they succeed.  I'm going to be pushing for it.  And we'll just see what happens.
Q. As I understand it, they changed the first tee.  How does that play differently now?
JULI INKSTER: They changed the -- what did they change?
Q. Hole 13.
JULI INKSTER: Hole 13.  What did they change?
Q. They moved the tee up.
JULI INKSTER: Oh, really?
Q. It's on the road a little bit.
JULI INKSTER: On 14.  Oh.  I don't know.  Well, last year it was so cold and windy, I mean I was hitting 3-woods and 2 hybrids in there, and today I hit 7-iron in there.  So it's a hole that it's not made to be hitting 3-woods and hybrids in.  It's a hole to be hitting 7, 8s and maybe a 6-iron in.  So I think that was a good move.
Q. Last year was this tournament's debut, is there any other tournament that you can think back on in all the years that you've played that you've seen a tournament have such an incredible following and support out the gate?
JULI INKSTER: Well, 1905 -- (laughs).  No.  Just kidding.  You know, not really.  Not that I can remember.  You know, I thought Kingsmill did a pretty good job.  But not people wise.  I think this has been the best so far.
THE MODERATOR: Anything else for Juli?  Appreciate the time.  Best of luck this week.
JULI INKSTER: Okay.  Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT