LPGA KEB HANABANK CHAMPIONSHIP
October 15, 2015
Juli Inkster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Why is she playing so good right now?
JULI INKSTER: You know, she's driving the ball really well.  She's getting confidence in her game.  I've just been harping on her that she's a great player and she needs to take it to the next level.  I think she's starting to believe it.
Q. You watch her ball-striking, see how far she hits it, and you would think she'd have won ten times by now?
JULI INKSTER: I think a little bit.  Her putting -- her short game wasn't as polished as it is now.  She's worked hard on that.  And you know, so it's coming together.  She's hitting wedges into all these greens that we're hitting 7- and 8-irons.  It's a big difference.
But she drives the ball really straight, too.
Q. She said that people talk that she's not a good putter and she thinks that maybe making that putt in Solheim in such a clutch scenario could be a huge thing going forward?
JULI INKSTER: It's kind of like, you get that -- what's the word I'm looking for, you get that stigmatism that you're not a great putter just because -- I don't think she was a great putter but I think she's become a good putter.
A lot of putting is confidence, and I think she's got a lot of confidence right thousand.
Q. I know you've said before that certain players can really use the Solheim Cup as kind of a momentum-booster for their career.  Do you think this could be that for her?
JULI INKSTER: Yeah, this is only the first round but I like the way she's playing.  I like her disposition.  She has a lot on her plate and they manage it really well.
Q. Is she the best player out here that has not gotten a win yet?
JULI INKSTER: I don't know, I think there's other good players.  But you know, it's going to come.  I don't like to put it that way.  It's going to come.  A lot of people, it just takes a little more time to gain that confidence in their game.  Gerina was a late starter, too.  I think she's just coming into her own.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT