VOLUNTEERS OF AMERICA NORTH TEXAS SHOOTOUT PRESENTED BY JTBC
May 3, 2015
Juli Inkster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Just a couple on the Back 9 there, thought you could have given it a run?  
JULI INKSTER:   Yeah.   You know what, I played good today.   You know, I had some chances on, I don't know, 14 and 15‑‑ or 15 and 16.   Yeah, I hit good putts.   Just broke off a little bit more.   But no, it's a tournament.   I'm happy.   Where I lost the tournament yesterday was on the Back 9, the sloppy nine holes.   But other than that, I played very well this week.  
   
 Q.   So pretty happy with where your game's at right now?  
JULI INKSTER:   Yeah, yeah.   Just enough time to take a few weeks off.   Go work for Fox.  
   
 Q.   Still not going to play the Open?  
JULI INKSTER:   No.   No.   I'm commentating.   So yeah, it's good.   I'm really happy with what I'm doing right now, playing a little bit, and you know, being captain, and then working for Fox.   So I got no regrets.  
   
 Q.   I was going to say, is it tough to handle all three jobs?   Captain is almost like a full‑time job, playing and‑‑  
JULI INKSTER:   Yeah.   But you know, I'm used to being busy.   Raising two kids out here, I've always been someone that really doesn't like to sit around.   So we'll see how the Fox thing does.   
   
 Q.   Pretty unique position to be in to be able to play with some of these girls in contention.   
JULI INKSTER:   Yeah, it is.   I mean Danielle, I'm the same age as her mom.   Yeah, you know what, I really enjoy playing.   I love the game, and you know, to be able to come out here and compete and stuff, it's great.   It's good.  
   
 Q.   Is it good to see how much they care?   I mean Danielle is in there talking about how she's one shot out of a top 20 three weeks in a row.   
JULI INKSTER:   Yeah.   I know.   It's great.   You know, it's a big year, and you know, everybody's trying to get their points.   Every shot, everything means so much.   And you know, to represent your country, I mean I've played in a lot of tournaments, but to play on the Solheim Cup is by far my best experience.   So I think a lot of these girls would like to experience that, and you know, at least finish in the top 20.  
   
 Q.   How much politicking have they been doing with you?  
JULI INKSTER:   Politicking or brown nosing.   I'm getting sucked up to a lot, which is great, which is fine.   And I know it, but it's all good.  
   
 Q.   What matters more to you, personality or results, I mean when it comes down to it?  
JULI INKSTER:   You know, I think it's a little bit of both.   You can have a great personality but if your game's not in shape, it's not going to help me.   
I need someone that's game is in shape, and you know, and I don't have any qualms of taking a rookie, you know, if they play well.   I'm just kind of looking for the 12 best players that will mesh and play their best.  
   
 Q.   When it comes to style, I know the U.S. has had trouble in foursomes and Ryder Cups, et cetera, recently.   What is the style of play you're looking for?   Are you looking for a grinder?   Are you looking for someone that makes a ton of birdies?  
JULI INKSTER:   I'm looking for a grinder.   I'm looking for someone that doesn't give up, someone that's out there that's going to compete to the end.   I don't need a lot of fluff.   I want someone that's got some passion and has got some heart, because it's going to be very tough over there.   We're going to be the underdogs and it's going to be loud.   And I need somebody that's not going to waver.  
   
 Q.   I've heard from this a lot of people, a couple of people at least have said that you're the most competitive person they've ever met on tour.   Is that what you're hoping to impart on your team?  
JULI INKSTER:   Well, yeah.   I mean I want someone that can compete out there and I want someone that's not afraid to go head to head with the best player out there.   And you know, whether they win or lose, you know, I want someone to play with an aggressive style.   
   
 Q.   When you're making the matchups are you going to be thinking more about personality as far as how the pairings fit together or game more so?  
JULI INKSTER:   I think it's both, again.   You know, in a best ball or alternate shot you don't want to put a really long hitter with a short hitter because long hitters never hit a hybrid into a par‑4.   So you gotta match them up a little bit, but I think personalities has a lot to do with it, too.   So we'll see how it all shakes out and go from there.  
   
 Q.   When it comes to those last two spots, I know everyone's kind of trying to fight to get into the Top 10, who have you been impressed with?   What have you seen so far this year?  
JULI INKSTER:   Well, you know, Morgan has really popped up there.   She's really played well.   Austin Ernst has done some good things.   Brittany Lang is starting to play a little bit better now.   Alison Lee, you know, she's had a couple of good tournaments.   You know, so.  
   
 Q.   What about Danielle?  
JULI INKSTER:   Danielle, she's a good player.   I don't know why she doesn't do better than she does.   It surprises me.   Yeah, I mean I'd love to see someone like that.   She's not afraid.   She doesn't get intimidated.   She's won two U.S. amateurs.   You know, it would be great.   But she's gotta do the work and then it's my job to pick.  
   
 Q.   And good to see Lexi's game turning around this week?  
JULI INKSTER:   Yeah.   Lexi's turning around.   Get Jessica Korda back out here.   I'm not really worried about my top players.   You know, they're going to be there, and I'm just‑‑ I hope it all shakes out because I hate controversy.   And I'm not looking forward to the picks at all.  
   
 Q.   Is that one of those things where you almost‑‑  
JULI INKSTER:   It's a no‑win situation.   You're going to piss somebody off.   But as I told them at the start of the year, you know, they've had two years to qualify.   It's not on me.   So that's the way I'm looking at it.  
   
 Q.   Does recent matter more or the whole two years as a whole?  
JULI INKSTER:   Recent.  
   
 Q.   Recent?   
JULI INKSTER:   Yeah.   I don't really care what they did last year.   I want them to play good this year.   
   
 Q.   Perfect.   Thanks so much.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT