VOLUNTEERS OF AMERICA NORTH TEXAS SHOOTOUT PRESENTED BY JTBC
April 30, 2015
Juli Inkster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   I'd like to welcome Juli Inkster into the media room after a 5‑under 66, tied for the lead.   What is it with you and the first rounds out here this week?   Great first round at ANA, great first round at Swinging Skirts, and now this today. 
JULI INKSTER:   Yeah, I've been playing pretty good.   I've been trying to slowly by slowly get a little confidence back in my game, and even last week, I didn't play too bad on Friday and Saturday, it was just tough conditions. 
You know, hopefully I can build on this and see what happens this weekend. 
THE MODERATOR:   Keep playing like this, is our first playing captain in the cards? 
JULI INKSTER:   No, I look at my cards, I've got a lot of great American flags up on that leaderboard, so I think they'll be able to do a job for me.
THE MODERATOR:   When you look at the leaderboard when you come off the green, do you look at the American flags first or do you look and see where you're at first? 
JULI INKSTER:   I look at the American flags and see who's up there and see who's playing well. 
The last four or five weeks, a lot of people have made a big move and have been playing some really good golf, so that's fun to watch.   Those last four spots are pretty wide open.   Every round, every shot really means a lot. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
JULI INKSTER:   You know, it's‑‑ I don't really‑‑ the good thing about me is I play out here, so I see them a lot, and I don't really judge anything by one round.   You know, everybody can have one bad round or everybody can just be off that day.   That's not a real priority for me.   I think it's more consistency and how they're playing week in and week out, what kind of scores they're shooting, did they shoot a 67 and a 76 or did they shoot a lot of 71 and 72s.   That's really more what I look at. 

Q.   You held a dinner this week where you invited your team to eat with President Bush.   I know that was kind of a way for you to inspire them.   When you see so many American flags right up there at the top who were at the dinner that night, does that show that maybe that worked? 
JULI INKSTER:   Yeah, I'm thinking maybe to bring them to Germany, because I think everybody‑‑ I know myself, it's probably one of the top three things I ever did, just listening to him, the stories and how passionate he is about the United States, the respect he has for the people over there fighting for freedom and stuff like that.   I don't know, I just had a great time, and everybody got on that bus when we were going home, and I could see it in their eyes that they also felt that it was a really special occasion, something that you maybe only get to do once in your lifetime. 

Q.   You played well last week, 15th, I think, and then can you just talk about going forward how much you're looking at winning right now and what that would mean for you at this point?
JULI INKSTER:   Yeah, I mean, I'm not really looking forward to winning.   I mean, as Nicklaus said, I've played good at first rounds and really haven't played good my second rounds, so I'm looking forward to going out there.   I drove the ball really well today and hit a lot of good iron shots, so that's what I'm looking forward to doing tomorrow, and add them up and see how I'm doing. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT