SWINGING SKIRTS LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY CTBC
April 23, 2015
Juli Inkster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MODERATOR:   Happy to be joined by Juli Inkster, 4‑under par.   Talk about your success out there.   
JULI INKSTER:   I drove the ball very well today.   I think I hit every fair but maybe one or two, and those were just kind of off the right side.  
Drove the ball well and hit a lot of good irons.   You know, I left a lot of putts out there, but the greens are tough I think.  
THE MODERATOR:   California native.   I heard you talking with Kevin Hopkins about tickets earlier.   How many people did you have out this week supporting you?   
JULI INKSTER:   I got a lot, which is nice.   Good friends come up and support me.   So free ticket, everybody wants a free ticket.  
Yeah, so it's good.   
THE MODERATOR:   Questions.   
   
 Q.   Just coming out here in basically your home area and having such a good first round at the second annual event, can you put that in perspective?   Is that a little extra significance for you?  
JULI INKSTER:   Yeah, it's always nice to be able to sleep in your bed and just drive a little north on 280.   I got a house full of girls staying with me this week.  
We been having fun and cooking in, and so it's been very relaxed, very laid back.   
   
 Q.   House full of girls...  
JULI INKSTER:   Players.   I got a lot of players staying with me, so it's good.   
   
 Q.   Starting out this morning, what time did you leave?   Was the travel terrible?  
JULI INKSTER:   No, I'm going opposite traffic.   I left about 6:10, so it wasn't too bad.   Takes 35,40 minutes to get up, so...  
   
 Q.   Also, without embarrassing you because I obviously know your background, you're playing against some of those young ladies, I'll put it that way, who are about the age of your daughters.   
JULI INKSTER:   Or younger.   Yeah, they're a lot younger than my daughters of.   They're 25 and 21.   Out here that's a seasoned veteran.   
You know what, that's the beauty about golf.   I mean, age matters in a lot of things as far as how your body feels and how far you hit the ball and how much time you can put into it.  
You can still go out there and compete on the 54.  
   
 Q.   Thought you were going to semi retire and do announcing.   
JULI INKSTER:   I am.   I'm doing the Four‑Ball at Olympic Club in a couple weeks.   I'm going to play next week and then I won't play much the rest of the year.   Maybe three or four.   
   
 Q.   This golf course, is this a golf course you've played a lot?   Is it a course you like the way it sets up?  
JULI INKSTER:   I don't get up here much just because the weather is just never good.   I mean, where I live, yesterday it was like 75, 76.   No wind.   You drive up in this little area and it's just...  
So I don't get up here too much.   I did come up here a few weeks ago and played a practice round.   And then I played here on Tuesday, so pretty much just play it once a year.  
   
 Q.   Just going to ask you about staying in shape and the fitness.   You must put in a lot of time on your fitness.   
JULI INKSTER:   I do.   I hate to work out but I like to eat, so to me it's a nice balance.   I do work out.   You know, I've been very fortunate.   I've only had one surgery in my whole career and a couple pregnancy and that's it.  
Been very lucky.   
   
 Q.   In terms of getting the four rounds and being in contention the whole way, obviously that's the goal, is there a point in time where maybe you get‑‑ do you worry about that?  
JULI INKSTER:   No.   I pretty much eat whatever I want to eat.  
   
 Q.   Not that, I'm talking about fitness through the four rounds.   You wear out at all?   
JULI INKSTER:   No.   No.   I caddied 36 holes, so I'm good.   
   
 Q.   I think it was 5 you got out of the bunker and then was that about a 7‑foot putt?  
JULI INKSTER:   Yeah.   About 5‑foot, yeah.   
   
 Q.   To save far ever par.   You had a couple back‑to‑back holes where you saved par; a couple fist pumps with your caddie there.   
JULI INKSTER:   Yeah, I mean, I was right in the fairway, too, and I hit my only really bad iron of the day.   
You know, I just 3‑putted No. 2, so you just kind of want to‑‑ don't want to give them back like that.   
Made a good par there and coming in had a lot of birdies chances; just didn't make them.  
   
 Q.   Does it seem like the wind picks up for the afternoon rounds?  
JULI INKSTER:   Oh, yeah.   The last four or five holes it really picked up.   
   
 Q.   I followed you 1 through 4, and the shot you hit on 1 to about 8 inches...   
JULI INKSTER:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   What was that?  
JULI INKSTER:   That was an 8 iron.   Let's see, it was 148.   
   
 Q.   As a broadcaster, if you were going to interview Juli Inkster after your round today, what would you ask her?  
JULI INKSTER:   Looks like you're driving the ball pretty well today.   How do you feel?   
No, I would just say, How was your round today?   Looks like you had every thing under control.   What would you say?   
I mean, I felt like I played very steady today.   Hit a lot of greens.   
   
 Q.   Are you surprised you're at the top of the leaderboard?  
JULI INKSTER:   I didn't know I was.   They kept switching out there.   I couldn't really see it.   
Well, the way I played today, no, I'm not surprised.   I actually have been playing pretty good.   I played really well at the Dinah Shore.   Just didn't putt very well and took an 8 on a hole.  
But I drove it well and hit a lot of good irons.   I didn't play last week, and just coming into this week, my game feels pretty good.  
   
 Q.   You said a house full girls and players.   How did that shake up?   Did they approach you like last year?  
JULI INKSTER:   Yeah, last year I had a couple and then they added on.   I had six, but two left.   Now I have four and a husband.  
   
 Q.   And they're competing here?   Names?   
JULI INKSTER:   Yeah, Christie McPherson, Kendall Dye, Dori Carter, Gerina Piller, and her husband, Martin.   
   
 Q.   Who is doing the cooking?  
JULI INKSTER:   I cooked last night.   I made chicken stir fry.   Homemade chicken stir fry.  
It was quick.   I could get it together quick.   
   
 Q.   When you're playing, you also have the Solheim Cup in the back of your mind or that is completely separate issue?  
JULI INKSTER:   Yeah, it's a separate issue.   We had a practice this week down at CordeValle.   That's why I really didn't play Hawaii.   I wanted to make sure everything was ready for that.  
You know, I thought it was a good week.   But that's kind of separate.   I kind of do that stuff in the evening, e‑mails and stuff I need to do, and then practice during the day, so...  
   
 Q.   The last win was '06, correct?   
JULI INKSTER:   I guess.   I don't know.   
   
 Q.   Three days from now, if you were on 18 also...   
JULI INKSTER:   It would be amazing.   I mean, that would be the feat of the year.   But it would be great.  
I mean, I been working with a guy named Jeff Brayhill from Los Altos.   I grew up with him.   He's really helped me with my game.  
I feel like if I can just stay close‑‑ today I made all my short putts and thought I putted really well.   Just didn't make a lot.  
So that was very encouraging.   Who knows?   54 holes is a lot of golf, especially out here.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT