ANA INSPIRATION
April 2, 2015
Juli Inkster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. You did a lot of work earlier this week with your instructor and life-long friend.  Was today the product of that?JULI INKSTER: Yeah, I actually have been hitting the ball fairly well the last couple of weeks, and I've been out with a bulky putter, but today I made a few putts and I made great par on 16.  One you don't really expect to make.  Yeah, it was nice.  He's helped me out a lot with my swing.Q. The ball striking you said has been really good and today was good, but not on 16 perhaps.JULI INKSTER: Yeah, no, no.  A good putt will make up for a really bad shot, so I was happy about that.Q. Did you make an adjustment with your putting?  Looking at the par-5, 16 right now?JULI INKSTER: No, I have a tendency to move on the ball a little bit.  So I'm just trying to keep my body still and stroke to the hole.  But sometimes those demons get in there and I'm just trying to get rid of them a little bit.Q. We're all too familiar with those.  Do you allow yourself to get ahead of yourself in an opening round like this and think of Sunday?JULI INKSTER: No, I'm looking forward to a nice cold beverage and being out here tomorrow morning.  I'm kind of glad I can play and come out here tomorrow and do the same thing.Q. Everybody's been talking all week about youth.  When you see Charley Hull up at the top of the leaderboard and Lydia Ko does what she does, how gratifying is it for you at 54 to go out and shoot 3-under par?JULI INKSTER: Oh, it's great.  As you know, I enjoy the game and I enjoy working at it.  I like the process of it.  So, yeah.  But these girls are our future.  You know, I'm just lucky I can still come out here and compete a little bit.Q. For you, I know you were in contention last year at the U.S. Women's Open.  Do majors still get that blood flowing for you a little more?JULI INKSTER: Yeah, I think what I like about the majors is you don't have to shoot 20-under or 18-under to win.  If you can come in around par, 1, 2, 3-under and come Sunday you'll have a shot.  So that's kind of why I like majors.Q. Any motivation when you go out to play like this to show your Solheim Cup team?JULI INKSTER: No, my team's going to be ready.  They don't need me to motivate them.  If they do need me to motivate them, we're in trouble.  They know what they're doing.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT