U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 22, 2014
Juli Inkster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. If it was possible for a crowd to will someone to a win, you would have won today.JULI INKSTER: I know.  I was telling Jim, it's really hard, they were so pulling for me, but it's really hard to acknowledge them when you're 5-over par and struggling. It was very nice, especially the reception on No. 1 tee and reception on 18, and all around the golf course.  It was great.  Very, very, very honored.
Q. So when you -- the par putt, when it dropped at 18 and you took off your cap, what are you feeling?  That's your chance to sort of release everything.JULI INKSTER: It was just, you know, I was disappointed in the way I played today, as a golfer, but that was my first thought.  But as a person I just felt a lot of pride that people root for me like that.  So, it's good.
Q. If you couldn't win, what will it be like to see Michelle close it?JULI INKSTER: That would be great for our game.  She's worked really hard.  She took a lot of bashing early on and she just persevered and I would love to see her win.  I would love to see Stacy win, too.  I think they're both great competitors.  But it would be great if Michelle won.
Q. Obviously right now today you're a golfer focused on trying to win a golf tournament.  But was there any point where it hit you that, wow, I'm walking the final mile here?JULI INKSTER: Yeah, really on that first hole and the ovation.  I was like, whoa, you know, but I'm good with it, it's been a great week.  I was telling Jim, I mean, it's been really a fun week and that's what I'll remember.
Q. You've done 35 of these, what are you going to miss most about this specific competition?JULI INKSTER: I'm not going to miss much. (Laughter.) Just playing in the U.S. Open and how tough it is and just the feelings of just very proud to have won a couple and I can always say I'm a U.S. Open champion.  I think that's what I take away from it.
Q. You said that Michelle got bashed a lot early.JULI INKSTER: Yeah.
Q. Was it fair?JULI INKSTER: Well, I don't think bashing is ever fair.  I think everybody was very much critiquing everything she did.  And what is she, 23, 24 now?  So I mean it's kind of hard to critique a 17, 18, 19-year-old.  But I think it was more the way they went about it than really her personally.  I think that was more the bashing.
Q. How did you feel about your fellow competitors coming out on the 18th and --JULI INKSTER: Yeah, it was great.  It was very good.  I have a lot of respect for the players out here and it was great to see them out here.
 
 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT