U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 19, 2014
Juli Inkster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Can you sum up the day?JULI INKSTER: You know what, I actually played pretty good.  I drove the ball very well.  I hit a lot of good iron shots.  I putted it okay.  Made some good par putts, 4 or 5 footers. I really only hit really one bad, bad shot.  And that was on 16.  I was between a 5-iron and a 4 rescue and I choked up on the 4 and hit it in the bunker.  But overall I played pretty good.
Q. What did you think of the course?  There's not a lot of low scores out there.JULI INKSTER: It's tough.  I mean, it's tough.  It's like, some holes, where do you hit it?  I thought they set it up really good today.  I thought they did a good job of moving a couple of, few tees up, to kind of get where everybody is at on this golf course, because they moved a few tees up and there's some really high scores out there. But I thought they set it up well.  I want to say maybe there's a half a dozen holes I felt like I could really go at the pin, maybe five.  And then the rest you just got to hit it where you need to hit it.
Q. It's not on the edge?JULI INKSTER: Well, I mean, I played early.  I think it's going to be really tough out there at 2.  It's drying out.  It's firm.  You got to really manage your golf ball out there.
Q. You said yesterday, obviously, you made the announcement that this is going to be your last.JULI INKSTER: Uh-huh.
Q. How important is it for you to make your last one kind of one where you're in the theater on Sunday?JULI INKSTER: I mean, it would be nice.  But I don't think it's important.  I'm really -- I'm okay with the decision.  I like this golf course, because I think it weeds a lot of players out. This is my type of golf course.  If I keep playing the way I'm playing, I think I've -- Stacy is playing unbelievable.  So I don't know if anybody can catch her.  But I feel like I can have a good tournament.
Q. Talking about Stacy, can you talk about what you've seen in her game, how she's progressed to No. 1?JULI INKSTER: Well, she never finishes out of the top 10 any week.  She's got the heart for it.  She's got the want.  She wants it.  Golf right now is a big part of her life.  She wants to be No. 1. There's a lot of people out there say they want to be No. 1, but I'm not really sure they really do.  She wants to be it.  I think it's great for our Tour.  She's a phenomenal player.
Q. Stacy is not 11, but she's still pretty young.  Is it fun to be out there?JULI INKSTER: I played with Cheyenne Woods, I don't know how old she is.  She looks young.  They're they all look young.  Natalie looked young, too. I don't mind playing.  I enjoy playing with them.  I think it's fun.  I don't know if they enjoy playing with an old lady.  But I really have -- I really enjoy it.  I think that's the beauty of golf.  I can still come out there and compete with them, no matter what age we're at.
Q. Looked like you guys had pretty good jokes.JULI INKSTER: Oh, yeah.  Natalie is so nice.  And Cheyenne is very nice.  A little more quiet.  So it was fun.
Q. Is there any difference, mentally, in terms of your approach, now that you have stated you're not going to play another one, knowing this is your last one?JULI INKSTER: No, I still try really hard.  It's just in my DNA.




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT