LORENA OCHOA INVITATIONAL BY BANAMEX & JALISCO IT HAPPENS WITH YOU
November 11, 2011
Juli Inkster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: We would like to welcome Juli Inkster back into the interview room. Congratulations on another great round, 3-under, and tied for the lead heading into Saturday. Can you take me through another day out there? 
 JULI INKSTER: Yeah, I played good in spurts, and played not too well in spurts, so kind of managed my game. I didn't hit it as well as I hit it yesterday, but coming in I hit it a lot better. I putted good today and chipped good today. That was kind of what I did. 
 THE MODERATOR: I know it's only Friday and so too early to think about winning the tournament, but if that was possible, this would make you the oldest champion in LPGA history. Does that cross your mind when you see your name atop the leaderboard? Does that cross your mind? 
 JULI INKSTER: No, it really doesn't. I just have to win. If I'm the oldest, that's whatever. 
 I know I'm the oldest, and everybody reminds me I'm the oldest, so it's just -- I'm just the oldest. (Laughter.)
 THE MODERATOR: I didn't get to see the putt but I heard on 18 you had a good putt to put it in. 
 JULI INKSTER: Yeah, had a good putt. I thought it was dead in but it kind of got a lift and did a 360 and fell in. It was a nice way to end the day. 

 Q. Julie, everybody wants you to win, the caddies, the media, the fans. How does that feel? Is that extra pressure? 
 JULI INKSTER: Do you think Anna Nordqvist wants me to win? (Laughter.) I really feel the fans watching out here, they're rooting hard for me, and I'm trying the best I can. If it happens, it's awesome. I'm sure the players are rootin' for me just so I will go home and retire and I don't have to be out here anymore. 
 I don't know, it's a good feeling. 

 Q. Juli, this being Lorena's tournament, talk about how special it would be for you to win this tournament?
 JULI INKSTER: I would love it. I mean, it would be icing on the cake. Lorena is so special to me, especially to win some of her money, that would be great! (Laughter.)

 Q. Juli, do you ever think, this could this be my last season? 
 JULI INKSTER: Yeah (Laughter.) Every year I say, okay I'll do it for one more year, and that's been going on for 10 years, and I don't know what else I would do. 
 I get to play 20 weeks a year and get the rest of 'em off and travel around and get to see parts of the world and talk to you people. It's a great job. 

 Q. (Away from mic.)
 JULI INKSTER: I'm sure there will be a time when I'm going to say, "All right, I'm done." But I don't know, so far, you know, I enjoy what I do. 

 Q. (Away from mic.)
 JULI INKSTER: Yeah, I mean, I know I'm not going to be number one, and I'm not going to win five or six tournaments a year, but if I can compete and be up there and enjoy what I'm doing, that's good for me. 

 Q. Juli, 2 fairways, 5 greens, what do you think the key to staying around? 
 JULI INKSTER: Two fairways? I hit more than two fairways. I hit 11 fairways. You got some bad information. I hit a lot of greens. I mean, there was a stretch there like 8, 9 and 11 that I didn't play very well, but after that I played pretty good. 
 I don't know how many greens I hit but I probably hit 13 or 14. I putted well today, and I chipped well, the greens I missed I chipped well, so you need to get better information.

 Q. Is there any change in motivation that you have had as you have gotten older? 
 JULI INKSTER: It's changed. When I was in my 20s and 30s, my goal was to win a lot, play a lot, win. Especially when I was 20 and before I had kids. Then when I had kids it was about surviving, getting used to traveling with the family and playing out there. Now, I don't take as seriously. 
 I still work hard, but I don't take it home with me, you know, I don't worry about it, I don't stress out if I play good, I don't stress out if I play bad. 

 Q. Juli, can you tell us about your elbow?
 JULI INKSTER: I hit two balls out of the rough on 9 and tweaked it so I'm going to get some treatment. It's sore right now, more sore than it was yesterday, hopefully it will die down a little bit. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you Juli. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT