LORENA OCHOA INVITATIONAL BY BANAMEX & JALISCO IT HAPPENS WITH YOU
November 10, 2011
Juli Inkster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome Juli Inkster into the room, our current leader. Congratulations on a great bogey-free 5-under round today. Can you just take me through the day a little bit.  
 JULI INKSTER: Sure. Briefly I just kind of played very consistent, hit a lot of fairways, a lot of greens, made a few putts. I chipped in one on No. 9 for birdie. It was kind of just a very laid-back round. I don't have too many, so it was nice.   
  
  Q. The elbow has been bothering you a little bit. Did it bother you at all today? It sure didn't look like it.   
 JULI INKSTER: Well, it does. I'm just not swinging hard at it, just trying to get it in the fairway. My grip strength seems to be a little weaker, but I laid off really the last three weeks. I've just played once and hit balls a couple times. Maybe that's what I need to do, just have a little fresh outlook, maybe not expect so much.   
  
  Q. I've been talking to everybody about the condition of the course and it looks beautiful out there. How were the conditions and everything out there?  
 JULI INKSTER: It's gorgeous. It's just so nice. Yeah, the fairways are lush and the course is just in great shape. Yeah, the greens were a little firm. They had some good pin placements. It's just a fun course to play, the kind of course you never really get tired of playing.   
  
  Q. Considering how much time you have taken off recently, were you surprised by how well you were able to play out there today?  
 JULI INKSTER: Yeah, totally surprised. I birdied the second hole and thought well this is better than I expected. Yeah, I was very surprised.   
  
  Q. Being so close to Lorena, being one of her best friends, do you think any special feeling about leading her tournament?  
 JULI INKSTER: Yeah, yeah, I love Lorean and I would love to win this tournament because Lorena's name is attached to it. Everyone on Tour feels the same way. You know Lorena is such a special person. Everyone on Tour respects her and it would definitely be special to win this event. But I've got a long way to go.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT