CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
August 28, 2019
Juli Inkster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Alongside Juli Inkster, the 1999 champion of this event, just came off after playing the golf course. What's it looking like out there?  
JULI INKSTER: It's in beautiful shape. It always is here. This is probably one of our best shape tournaments we play all year. The greens are great. Yeah, it's in pristine shape right now.   
 Q.  What memories come to mind as you look back at your victory 20 years ago here?  
JULI INKSTER: Well, it got me into Hall of Fame, so it was pretty important. I remember my kids flew up with my husband and they were there on the 18th hole, and that was my last point to qualify for Hall of Fame, so it was huge for me.   
 Q.  Also a part of your Hall of Fame career, your captaincy of Team USA's Solheim Cup. You mentioned you were struggling sleeping until you had to make your captain's picks. Have you gotten some better sleep since?  
JULI INKSTER: I actually slept really good last night, so I think my body finally just kind of said, get some rest. It's been a tough last week. I know I disappointed a lot of people, and I don't take that lightly. But maybe it'll motivate them. A lot of good young players that are going to be on the Solheim Cup.   
 Q.  A lot of your players out here this week. What are you looking for them to be tuning up for Solheim for this final event leading up to it?  
JULI INKSTER: Well, they're on the team, so I don't have to look at stats or scores or anything like that. My main thing next week is to get a lot of rest, get a little practice in, and then come Sunday, be ready to go.   
 Q.  You just sort of mentioned that you've been coming back to Portland for a lot of years now. What is it you love about the city?  
JULI INKSTER: Well, my husband's family is from up here, and we've always just come up and -- I love the northwest, the trees and fresh air. This golf course is just a great golf course, too. It's a lot of fun to play.   
 Q.  People are saying that the condition is as good as it's been. You've obviously played here a lot of times. Where is it?  
JULI INKSTER: Well, it's up there. It's always in great shape. When you come to Portland you know what you're going to get. You're going to get a great golf course, great greens, and when you hit a putt, you know if it's in or not right away.   
 Q.  Have you played in this sort of heat before?  
JULI INKSTER: Oh, yeah. We've played it in all weather. But usually late August, September is usually the best time in Portland.   
 Q.  You kind of mentioned Solheim Cup there. You're not really looking at anyone, but who are you paired with tomorrow?  
JULI INKSTER: I'm paired with -- that's a really good question. Carlota Ciganda, and who else -- oh, Gaby Lopez.   
 Q.  Do you look at the European team or just concentrate on what you have on your side?  
JULI INKSTER: You know what, Carlota is an amazing player. I think she's probably the best player on the team. She's just got so much talent. She's a nice girl. I'm looking forward to playing with her. She's just fun to play with.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT