RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
July 30, 2010
Juli Inkster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Juli, the weather today, apparently you're not supposed to play in good weather. 
 JULI INKSTER: It's summer. You always play good in summer. It was tough out there. Luckily the wind wasn't blowing as much as it was yesterday, but it was rainy and tedious out there. I was very happy with the way I played today.

 Q. You just made the one bogey, but you came right back with a birdie on the next hole. You shoot 70, you take a look at that leaderboard, you're the only name in the afternoon on that leaderboard. 
 JULI INKSTER: Do you get anything for that? I don't think you get anything for that. There's a lot of good names up there. Tomorrow we're all going to be playing at the same time, so that's going to help a little bit. But to be 3-under after the first couple days, I'm pleased. 

 Q. I know you were a little disappointed coming off the 18th, but let's go back to 17. You maybe stole one there and you let one go on 18. 
 JULI INKSTER: Yeah, that's golf, take it and give it. You're right. That was a -- you know, golf is being greedy, and I wanted that one on 18. But I played well, hit a lot of good shots, especially on the back side. Hit a lot of good irons, so I'm really happy. 

 Q. This is a major championship. What would it mean to you to win it? 
 JULI INKSTER: Well, it would mean a lot. But I've got a lot of golf left and a lot of good players up there. I'm going to need a little golf-god help to do it. But you never know. 

 Q. I wonder how satisfying that round of 70 was today. 
 JULI INKSTER: It was very satisfying. I played very steady today, only had one bogey out there, which is great. I hit a lot of greens, and when I missed them I was able to get them up-and-down. It was a good round for me. 

 Q. What was so challenging about playing in these conditions today? 
 JULI INKSTER: Well, it's just trying to be organised, trying to get your yardage, and then the wind is blowing and the rain is coming sideways, just trying to trust your swing. Not trying to worry about the elements, but it's hard. 

 Q. You're out here still giving your all. You've often said you're going to call it quits, but we're absolutely delighted to see that you keep going. You keep telling your husband you're going to call it quits, too. 
 JULI INKSTER: He doesn't listen to me; he never has. I play, I love the game, especially coming over here and playing. It just throws everything at you. It's just a lot of fun. I wish I would have played better through the years over here, but I enjoy coming over.

 Q. I was looking back through the stats and you've got the career Grand Slam. The only one that you haven't managed to land has been this one. It would be great to do it still, wouldn't it?
 JULI INKSTER: Yeah, it would be awesome, but I've got a lot of golf ahead of me and a lot of great players in front of me. I'm just going to need a lot of help, but who knows.

 Q. Tell me about this young Yani Tseng who's leading the championship. What sort of front-runner is she?
 JULI INKSTER: She's a great player. She just hits the ball phenomenal. When she putts good, she wins. She's going to be tough. You've got Suzann Pettersen up there, a lot of great players. But I'm really happy. They played in the morning this morning, and I played in the afternoon, so I'm happy with where I'm at. 

 Q. How tough was it playing in this kind of weather?
 JULI INKSTER: It was tough. I really think yesterday was probably tougher just because the wind was blowing a lot more. This is probably only a one-, one-and-a-half-club wind. But with the rain, you know, it just messes with you. I hit a lot of good, solid shots out there, which I was happy about.

 Q. Not only for you but the rest of the leaderboard, it's going to be a tough task to catch Yani. How tough a task is it going to be?
 JULI INKSTER: It's going to be really tough because her strength of the game is with ball-striking, and that's what you need out here. You need to drive the ball well, you need good approach shots, and then putting is -- once you hit it on the green you can make two putts. I think her strength is with ball-striking. She's phenomenal. 
 It's going to be tough, but 36 holes, you never know. Just go out there, and you don't know what the weather is going to be like, just got to try to play your own game.

 Q. Can you keep it consistent as you were in your prime? I know that's a bit of a struggle, but have you figured out a way to keep it consistent?
 JULI INKSTER: Well, I feel like my swing this week is a little better. I feel like I'm hitting a lot more consistent shots, and I'm putting a lot better. So we'll see. Just go out there and have fun with it and try to hit some good shots. 

 Q. How is it out there?
 JULI INKSTER: I'm putting good. This year I'm putting a lot better, and my ball-striking has kind of been my nemesis this year. It's been very inconsistent. This week I'm hitting the ball pretty good.

 Q. Does the bad weather make you bear down more?
 JULI INKSTER: Yeah, I just think it makes you focus more, and it makes you -- you know, when you show up here and Yani is already 8-under, you're like, well, I don't think I'm going to get a 7-under out there in this pouring rain. But I just tried to kind of stay within myself. I was lucky to get some birdies on the back side. I thought I played great, and I shot 2-under. It's tough. 

 Q. There was a 67 and three 68s in the morning. That's just the luck of the draw. 
 JULI INKSTER: I know, and that's the thing, the luck of the draw over here. You've got to get the good end.

 Q. But you've got to look at it like you're one stroke out of second place. 
 JULI INKSTER: Yeah, that's true, and a lot can help on the weekend. Yani is just -- she just hits the ball so well. This course is built for her. 

 Q. Those par-5s coming in are just huge for her. 
 JULI INKSTER: Yeah.

 Q. Is it any different playing the weekend now for you than it was ten years ago?
 JULI INKSTER: No, all the same. It all runs together. It is the weekend, that's right. Sometimes I don't even know it's the weekend. No, I still love it. I still love it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT