LPGA STATE FARM CLASSIC
June 10, 2010
Juli Inkster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MODERATOR: Great round today.
 JULI INKSTER: Thank you.
 MODERATOR: Your thought process. You're playing your 7th hole; you're 2-over for the day; 5 pars, double bogey, and then six straight birdies. Walk us through that.
 JULI INKSTER: Yeah. Well, I hit it close on 1 and 2 and didn't make 'em, and then 3 I four-putted. So I was kind of like, Okay, what's going on here? 
 Then I hit it close on 6 and missed it, and then 7 I rolled in about a 15-footer; 8 I rolled in about another 15-footer; 9 I rolled in about a 10-footer. I'm like, All right, here we go. 
 And then I rolled in probably a 12-footer on 10 and probably about an 18-footer on 11 and then probably about a 3-footer on 12. 
 So it was good.
 MODERATOR: On 13, you made six straight birdies. You're playing a birdieable par-5...
 JULI INKSTER: Yeah, and I hit it about 40 feet. Yeah, you know, I just nuked it. I hit it too hard. 
 But, you know, I was really happy I hung in there. I hit a lot of good iron shots on the back side. I made a good par putt on No. 15. I drove it left. It was the only green I missed all day. 
 I had to hit sand wedge in there to about 12 feet and I made that for par. And then I birdied 16, 17, and 18 coming in.
 MODERATOR: Do you think you've ever four-putted on your way to a 65 before?
 JULI INKSTER: No, no. I've four-putted on my way to a 75, but never 65. That's why it's good to get 'em out of the way early.
 MODERATOR: Questions. 

 Q. You said you nuked a shot on... 
 JULI INKSTER: 13.

 Q. 13. It was a putt?
 JULI INKSTER: It was a sand wedge. Yeah, I had 83 yards, and usually I only hit my sand wedge 80. I hit it hard, and I think I hit it about 90. 
 So, yeah, it was a little firm. 

 Q. Because of the timing of this, you haven't played in Springfield very often, I think maybe your fifth time. 
 JULI INKSTER: Yeah.

 Q. What did you think of things here?
 JULI INKSTER: Well, I like it. I mean, I like the area. I mean, it's a good golf crowd, good golf community. You know, we do well in the small communities where they rally around us and we rally around them. 
 State Farm has been a great sponsor for us for 30 years. You know, it's just kind of worked out, my schedule with kids I just haven't been able to get here. Now they don't care where I play, so...
 Yeah, all right, mom. See ya. I've been back the last couple years here.
 I have to say, too, The Rail Golf Course didn't really set well with my golf game. So this golf course I like a lot better. 

 Q. You played here all three years? 
 JULI INKSTER: No, I didn't play the first year. Yeah, been here the last two years.

 Q. When you see a pairing that you're with Gulbis and Pressel, do you have any particular... 
 JULI INKSTER: I iron my clothes before I come out, that's for sure. I make sure I'm pretty. 
 No, I really enjoy playing with them. You know, played Solheim Cup teams with them. I get along great with them, so I was very pleased with my pairing. 
 I liked it a lot. 

 Q. When you get on a run like you get on, is there much interplay between the players? Do you talk about, Good shot or does someone say, Man, you're hot? Does stuff go on between you? 
 JULI INKSTER: Oh, yeah. Well, you don't say, Man you're hot. You just say, Good shot. Way to go. Good birdie. 
 But, yeah, I think it's kind of like a pitcher with pitching a no-hitter. You just really don't want to bring up, Yeah, that was your fifth in a row. So you just kind of just do what you do. You know, Nice putt. Good birdie. 
 After I made six in a row, Morgan, on the 14th tee, goes, Nice six. That was a good six in a row. So they know, you know, but you just don't really want to bring it up. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 JULI INKSTER: No. It doesn't. I like it, though. I mean, I can't remember last time I had six in a row. It's been a long time. I can't remember when I had five in a row, four. 
 Yeah, so it was nice. 

 Q. Because of your experience and you have three more days to do this, will you do anything special today to make sure that you're still fresh, that everything is still working tomorrow? Will you make any kind of adjustments?
 JULI INKSTER: No. Yeah, no. No. I'll go get dinner and go home and watch TV and get up early and come out and play. 
 Kind of glad I get to get up and get out here early and play. And then I'll take a nap tomorrow afternoon. (Laughter.) 

 Q. Meena Lee was out in the morning and said it was pretty soft. Had it dried out?
 JULI INKSTER: Yeah, it was soft. No, I mean, you could slide a ball right at the pins, which, you know, is nice. 
 I mean, it's a big difference between Tuesday practice round and now. But it is drying out a little bit, but the greens are holding. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 JULI INKSTER: I will be very disappointed. I might just walk off.
 MODERATOR: You guys good? 
 JULI INKSTER: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT