HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
February 27, 2010
Juli Inkster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MIKE SCANLAN: Thanks for coming in, tied for the lead with Ai Miyazato at 7-under par entering the final round. Certainly been fun to watch this week.
 JULI INKSTER: Yeah, I played really well today. I figured out a little bit of my swing and hit a lot of solid drivers drives, a lot of solid iron shots. Kind of left a few putts out there, but, you know, I played really solid. It was a better round today than yesterday. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: You've entered the final round with the lead 29 times in your career, so you've got experience in that department. Can you talk about what you'll probably draw on tomorrow in the final round? 
 JULI INKSTER: Well, it's been a long time, so I can't remember what I drew on back then. There's a lot of good players behind me. Ai won last week, so she's of course playing with a lot of confidence. 
 So, you know what, I'm definitely the underdog, which I'm okay with. I've just got to go out there and if I hit the ball the same way I hit it today, I'll be in there. 

 Q. What kind of advice will Brian give you? 
 JULI INKSTER: Probably not much. He kind of stays out of it. He'll just stay, "Go get 'em tomorrow. Have fun. Don't come home if you don't win." (Laughter) No, he won't say that, I'm just kidding you. 
 He's very positive. Everything I do, he's very okay with. 

 Q. What would a win tomorrow mean to you?
 JULI INKSTER: It would be great. It would probably be one of my best wins ever. Just because it's been a while, and I've kind of really struggled with my golf game the last year. You know, I just feel like I'm swinging better, I feel like I'm putting better. I'm definitely chipping better. I'm in a better frame. 
 Even though last week I didn't play that great, I hit a lot of good shots. Kind of struggling with my distance control, and on those greens, you had to be on. I don't know, like where my game is at. 

 Q. What made you decide that this might be your last season and would a win change that?
 JULI INKSTER: Well, I think you've just got to get to a point where -- it's kind of hard to explain. I don't really have one of those technical, sound swings. It's just -- I've got some hiccups in my giddyup out there, and it just seems like I'm always working on my golf swing, and it just gets tiring. You get tired of working on your golf swing. 
 You know, I know when I don't want to go out and hit golf balls, that it's time. Not that I'm at that point now, but I can see it coming. So I'm totally okay with that. 

 Q. What do you think somebody of your experience brings to a final day when there's so many top players very close to the top; do you have an advantage with all of your experience?
 JULI INKSTER: No, I don't think so. I mean, Ai won last week. She's got the best experience because she won last week. You know, there's a lot of good players behind us. Momoko is playing good. 
 So I'd say right now, I'm definitely the underdog. I don't think anybody expects me to win. But I'm going to go out there and give it a shot. 

 Q. What did you figure out in your swing?
 JULI INKSTER: My ball position was way back in my stance and I moved my ball position up and it allowed me to stay more in my shot.
 I made friends with my irons today, yeah. We are getting along very well. 

 Q. Angela Stanford said yesterday that you are the most competitive person she's ever known; would you agree?
 JULI INKSTER: Yeah, definitely. I am very competitive, and you know, I don't like to lose; even though I lose a lot, I still don't like it. I think that's why I'm still out here. I enjoy the competitive aspect. She's more competitive than me, by far. 

 Q. What do you think about playing in the final group tomorrow? 
 JULI INKSTER: It's always a thrill. It's always an honour to be there in the last group when you know you're playing well and playing with the best players. I'm looking forward to it. 

 Q. You worked really hard in the off-season. Can you just talk about what a typical day is?
 JULI INKSTER: Well, get up, I make Cori's lunch, and then I take her to school and go work out, come back, have breakfast. And then do whatever I need to do. I go practise, play, but I make sure I have lunch. Lunch is very key. 
 And then I pick Cori up at school and that's it. But I definitely play and work out and practise pretty much every day. 

 Q. Did you take time off?
 JULI INKSTER: I did. I took most of December off. Probably from Thanksgiving to around Christmas, I just kind of piddled a little bit, but I didn't hit any. I met Mike the first part of January, my coach.
 MIKE SCANLAN: Juli, thank you so much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT