HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
February 26, 2010
Juli Inkster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MIKE SCANLAN: Thanks for coming in. Obviously not the finish you were looking for but you still played good golf and you're two shots off the lead, if you would just take us through your day quickly.
 JULI INKSTER: Yeah, you know, I've been kind of struggling with my putting a little bit, and I putted really well today. I didn't hit the ball as great as I would like to but I managed it, and when I missed greens, I got it up-and-down. 
 It's not that easy out there. I don't know why. It's just really hard to get the right iron in your hand and the right club in your hand, plus with the wind. I think everybody is kind of fighting still how far they are hitting their clubs, with the ball and the spin and grooves and stuff like that. I struggled a little bit out there with that. 

 Q. Can you expand a little more on the grooves? 
 JULI INKSTER: Well, it's like -- well, I got new irons. Of course they don't make the shaft that I had before, so I got a new shaft and irons. I feel like I'm hitting them farther than I hit my old ones and it seems like my three-quarter shots go as far as my full shots. 
 So it's just kind of, for me, I kind of get over the ball, I'm not really sure how far I'm hitting it. So it's kind of a little bit apprehensive. 
 Coming out of the rough, the ball is not sitting down as quickly, so you have to kind of allow for that. Kind of different with new clubs, new shafts, kind of taking me a little while to get used to it. 

 Q. Inaudible.
 JULI INKSTER: You never want to finish bogey, bogey. You'd rather go out there and finish bogey, bogey and birdie, birdie. 17, I had 9-iron in my hands and hit it to the right and bogey. 
 The last hole I was between a 7 and a 6 and tried to hit a little 6 and came out of and made bogey. Little silly things like that just kind of cost you where you're at. So I just can't afford to do those and try to win a tournament. 

 Q. Inaudible.
 JULI INKSTER: No, not at all. They are just good holes. 18 is a good hole. I 3-putted 15. I thought I was kind of into the grain and then downgrain, and I just never got it to the downgrain so it stopped and I missed about a 3 1/2 footer. 
 Made a good birdie on 16. 
 And then 17, that's just silly to make a bogey with a 9-iron in your hand. That kind of annoys me more than the last hole. 

 Q. (Regarding length of playing career).
 JULI INKSTER: I don't know, stupidity, I don't know. (Laughter) I don't know. I really like what I do. I love to play golf. I guess it when I started, because I started so late, I didn't start until I was 15. Golf to me never really seemed like a business, never really seemed like my livelihood. It just seems like something I did. I guess I didn't have a lot of people pushing me to, you know, play every week. I just kind of played my own schedule when I was young. I played two weeks on, a week off, and I was married, so it was different. 
 Then I had kids and I don't know, I just -- it's just really never been a job for me. Maybe that's why I'm still out here playing. 

 Q. Inaudible.
 JULI INKSTER: Well, I've always worked hard. I've always -- my dad was a fireman and we always kind of worked at what we did, and you know, I never said that -- I never -- I've always been a grinder. That's just the way I play. Nothing ever really comes easy. And so as far as putting the time in and working, I don't have any problem with that. 
 You know, travel gets a little harder. But I feel like I'm in good shape and I don't feel like I'm turning 50, that's for sure. 

 Q. When you say it's harder -- where does it happen?
 JULI INKSTER: You get in those little holes like the third tee where there's not much there; 5 seems to be sitting down a little bit. But yeah, it's hot. There's no doubt about it. 
 You've got the breeze out there. I've played in hotter. I won the Open in Mississippi and it was really hot. I don't mind the heat. I'd rather have it hot than cold. I'm not complaining. 

 Q. Inaudible. 
 JULI INKSTER: I don't think I give a crap as much (laughing). You know, I don't take it home with me like I used to. I don't live and die with every shot. I'm trying and this is probably my last year, I'm trying to enjoy it and not get frustrated and not get, you know, I'm just trying to enjoy the moment. 
 So I still grind. I still practise and I still work at it. I just don't -- I just don't -- it's not life or death for me. 

 Q. How will you manage to stay busy when you would have been playing --
 JULI INKSTER: Yeah, I'll have to find something to do, that's for sure. I would love to coach a high school golf team or girls' golf team, something like that, something easy. I don't have any -- I mean, it's amazing that when I'm at home, I keep myself very busy. And it's all of a sudden I'm rushing to go pick Cori up at school. I don't know where my day goes, but it just goes. 
 You know, I don't think I'll have -- maybe I'll get a reporter's job, come in and bug you guys. (Laughter) Yeah. I don't know. I don't know what I'll do but I don't think I'll have any problem filling that void. 

 Q. You can use spell check. 
 JULI INKSTER: Yeah, I can use spell check. That's good. That's all I need. 

 Q. Are you by yourself this week?
 JULI INKSTER: Yeah.  
 Q. How are you staying in contact with friends and family at home?
 JULI INKSTER: I'm Skyping and using Pat Hurst's phone. (Laughter) I call them in the morning, or my morning, their afternoon, and then I'll call them right now. And then I'll do the same thing tomorrow. I have to call Hayley at school, she's in college; and I call Cori, she's at home; and I call Brian.

 Q. Does your phone not work overseas?
 JULI INKSTER: No. I don't know. I don't understand it. I'm the only one with a phone that doesn't work overseas, and it's brand new. It's like, what's up with that. 

 Q. (Regarding a major in Asia).. 
 JULI INKSTER: Well, to me, to me, this is just my personal view, a major is tradition. It's something that's been established, been there for a while; the U.S. Open, the Dinah Shore, it's been there since, I don't know when. The LPGA Championship and the British Open, those are history. 
 I just don't think, and this is me, personally, that all of a sudden you can have a purse for $5 million somewhere and call it a major. I just don't think it has the history yet to be a major. That's just my personal point of view. 

 Q. So how do you --
 JULI INKSTER: How do you go about it? No, I think the way golf is changing and the way golf is coming over to the east, I think -- probably the LPGA before anybody has a major than anybody over here. I just look at the makeup of our tour and I look at our majors; I can see a major corporation maybe picking up one of our majors and moving it around. 
 And you know what, I wouldn't have any problems with that. I just don't think -- to me, money doesn't make a major. I think it's tradition and history that makes a major. If you were to come over and play a very famous Asian golf course that has history behind it, and you know, they want to sign a ten-year contract or whatever, I wouldn't have any problem with that. 
 But one, I don't think we should have more than four majors, and until one of those goes away, I don't think we need another major.

 Q. If you were Commissioner you had to have a major in Asia today, which event would you want --
 JULI INKSTER: I don't want to be Commissioner. I'm not even going there. These are great tournaments over here, and it's a great experience to play over here. But, you know, we have four majors. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Thanks, Juli. FastScripts by ASAP Sports ...







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT