AUGUSTA NATIONAL WOMEN'S AMATEUR
April 1, 2021
Rachel Heck
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  Q. Talk about the excitement to know that you've made it through.
 RACHEL HECK:   Oh, my gosh, it's just unreal.  The first two rounds, that's really all you're thinking about, and you try to get that out of your head.  You try to just take it one shot at a time, but that's all you're thinking about, making that cut and getting to play Augusta on Saturday.  So it's unreal.  I'm just going to enjoy the next two days so much.  I'll remember the next two days the rest of my life.  I'm so excited.
 Q. Long day of golf for you today.
 RACHEL HECK:   Yes.
 Q. How about the mental and physical grind?
 RACHEL HECK:   It was hard for sure, waking up at 4:45 to go finish the last six holes, and then not teeing off until 12:50.  So, yeah, definitely a mental grind out there, but I tried to have fun.  I got a little lunch break and a nap in between rounds, just trying to take it one hole at a time.
 Like I said before, it's in your mind that you've got to make the cut, but I think I did a pretty good job of taking it one hole at a time, one shot at a time.  It's a beautiful course and a beautiful day.
 Q. How about the conditions out there?  Did they change from the end of the first round to the second?
 RACHEL HECK:   It definitely dried out a bit throughout the day for sure, but the course is just in absolutely perfect condition.  It's really beautiful.  I enjoyed playing it the past couple of days.
 Q. What do you do mentally to deal with the type of conditions today?  I heard a lot about the wind swirling.
 RACHEL HECK:   Yeah, my dad and I kept laughing because we'd talk about a shot, okay, we're really downwind.  Then it would be my turn to hit, and we're super into the wind.  You just have to laugh about it.  The conditions are crazy, so hard.  I don't know if I've ever played a course in conditions harder than this.
 You just have to take a step back, realize it's hard, and not be too hard on yourself for the bad shots.
 Q. How special is it having your dad on your bag?
 RACHEL HECK:   So special.  Oh, my gosh.  He's looking at me right now.  We just had the best time today, so much fun.
 Q. You probably dreamed of playing at Augusta National with your dad?
 RACHEL HECK:   Honestly, it's not like I even grew up dreaming about it.  You don't really think about playing at Augusta.  It was only the last couple of years that I thought I might have a chance.  Having him there with me is just going to be beyond special.
 Q. How are you going to prepare for your next round?
 RACHEL HECK:   I'll go eat some good food, do some homework, hang out with some friends, and just enjoy it.
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT