NBA DRAFT 2019
June 20, 2019
Bol Bol
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How would you describe your style of play?  
BOL BOL: My style of play, 7'2", I can space the floor very well.  I can pass very well and shoot and dribble pretty well for my size.   
 Q.  You only played nine games for Oregon in the regular season, but I want you to tell me what parts of your game you improved just by watching film or team meetings.  
BOL BOL: I definitely improved on my shot blocking, my timing.  And defensively it wasn't showing because I only played nine games, but every single game I was learning more and more on the defensive side.   
 Q.  Throughout the whole draft, your friend Shareef O'Neal was supporting you and telling everyone that you were going to be the steal of the draft.  I just want you to tell me about your relationship with him and how you think he's going to do next year for the UCLA Bruins.  
BOL BOL: Me and him, we are very close ever since we started playing AAU together from around 17 years.  We've been close friends ever since.  I think he will do fine next year, and I'm looking forward to playing against him next year hopefully.   
 Q.  You get the invite into the green room.  What's it like to finally get drafted and finally get taken by a team after falling a little bit farther than you would have liked?  
BOL BOL: It was a little rough at first, but it's just a blessing just being able to get drafted.  That was the main focus, just being drafted.   
 Q.  How do you think you can improve your teammates this year?  Do you think you can contribute to your team in a positive manner?  
BOL BOL: Definitely, because my transitioning is pretty good.  I pick up things very well.  So with the right teammates around me, I'll be able to help, definitely.   
 Q.  Going a little bit off of that, it's reported you're headed to Denver.  Any thoughts about possibly playing along Nikola Jokic, Jamal Murray, those guys?  
BOL BOL: They're both great players.  Jokic is actually one of the players I started watching a lot because of his passing.  I take that a lot from his game.  I think they're a very great team, and I'm very excited.   
 Q.  How does it feel to know you're going to be going to a situation where you're going to be playing really important basketball games for a team with championship expectations right away?  
BOL BOL: I think it's good for me because I'll be around very great players and a good staff.  I think that will help develop me.  That will better me.  I think I can bring a lot to the team with the knowledge that they give me.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT