U.S. AMATEUR PUBLIC LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2008
Jack Newman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: U.S. Amateur Public Links Champion, Jack Newman, from De Moines, Iowa here with us today. Jack, congratulations. How about a reaction to that statement? Jack Newman, 2008 Public Links Champion?   
 JACK NEWMAN: Oh, it's pretty awesome. I can't even explain it in words. I'm excited to go play with the Masters. It was a dream since I was a little kid. Now it's finally achieved. I don't think it's settled in yet.  
  
  Q. How are you feeling?  
 JACK NEWMAN: I'm pretty tired. I think around 18 and 18, 18 and 36 and three days of 36, so I'm a little worn out. I imagine I'll be taking the next couple of days off, sleeping and resting.   
 I got lucky my brother was out there and he came and caddied for me mid-round, and that was awesome, so.   
  
  Q. Your brother? Which brother?   
 JACK NEWMAN: My oldest brother, Andy, came in and caddied for me.  
  
  Q. Were you prepared to go 18 on your own?   
 JACK NEWMAN: I was ready to go all 36. But then I was thinking I saw him out there, and I knew he could calm me down a little bit just by talking. I just wanted somebody to talk about random stuff not even golf on the golf course, so that was perfect.  
  
  Q. What did you guys talk about?   
 JACK NEWMAN: We talked about he went to Costa Rica for a trip. Talked about that. Just random stuff. Girls occasionally.  
  
  Q. Andy's?   
 JACK NEWMAN: Andy's 30.   
  
  Q. You said you have three brothers?  
 JACK NEWMAN: Yeah. It goes Andy, Dan, Dave, Katie, and me.   
  
  Q. How old is he?   
 JACK NEWMAN: He's 33. Dan's 31, Dave's 29, Kate's 25, and I'm 20, going on 21 in October, so. Don't quote me on that. I hope I'm not wrong.  
  
  Q. Beyond that, who came out to see you?   
 JACK NEWMAN: Oh, there was one of the Howell's, the twins they came out. One lives out here, he came out yesterday, and the other one made it out here on the trip. A couple other family friends and my sister's boyfriend, so a little crowd.  
  
  Q. You have a little smirk on your face?  
 JACK NEWMAN: Yep, I can't get rid of it.  
  
  Q. Does this just feel beyond belief?   
 JACK NEWMAN: I'm sure it will settle in tomorrow when it really hits. But right now it's just taking it all in for what it's worth.  
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)?  
 JACK NEWMAN: Game over? No -- so...  
  
  Q. Out of your siblings, is Andy the one you feel closest to and is that why you thought about using him for your caddie or?   
 JACK NEWMAN: No, I'm really close with all of them. Andy's just -- he was the head pro at golf courses, and now he's in another business. Got out of that, and he just has a lot of golf knowledge. So I knew having him on the bag he could walk me through preshot, tell me what to do. Having him on the bag was awesome.  
  
  Q. Did he pick up on the same round?   
 JACK NEWMAN: He picked up after six, right at number 7. First 18.   
  
  Q. Talk about your first 18?   
 JACK NEWMAN: First 18, I made some really good putts. I think that sort of stunned John. I mean, I made a lot of putts this week, and John played awesome. And just made a few putt that's were really, really nice.   
  
  Q. You're not sore by any means or fatigued?   
 JACK NEWMAN: Oh, he brushes it, yeah. It's all angles. My swing just must not have enough wag and stuff to create the power, I guess.  
  
  Q. But the idea of matchplay?   
 JACK NEWMAN: Oh, if I'm up first, I'm just trying to get it out there on the fairway and put some pressure on him. If he's up there and he bounds it down the middle, there is nothing I can do about it. I played with the longest collegiate golfer in Brian Brim, and he graduated. He's trying to go pro next year. He'd probably toss it past John out there by about 20 or 30.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)?   
 JACK NEWMAN: I've been playing the long ball.   
  
  Q. So what does this do for you, this win? I mean, now you're going to the U.S. Amateur.   
 JACK NEWMAN: Do I get an exemption for that?   
  
  Q. Yeah, I think so.   
 JACK NEWMAN: Oh, awesome, I didn't even know that.   
  
  Q. Oh, excuse me. You get into the Masters.   
 JACK NEWMAN: Hopefully, I can go to the U.S. Amateur and compete again. That's what everyone's goal is. That's what I was trying to do here, compete for the title.   
  
  Q. But I mean --  
 JACK NEWMAN: What will it do as in jump start or something?   
  
  Q. Confidence?   
 JACK NEWMAN: A lot of confidence coming out of this week. Played well. I can compete with the best. Never really competed at a national level a whole lot before, and I was just trying to get into it this summer.  
  
  Q. Did you ever wonder about (Indiscernible)?   
 JACK NEWMAN: Could I be one?   
  
  Q. Yeah?  
 JACK NEWMAN: I hope I won't be one of those guys.   
  
  Q. But do you want to be up there?   
 JACK NEWMAN: Yeah, I want to be up at the top level with them, that would be fun.   
  
  Q. Did you see this level of play from yourself coming, Jack? Was there something that happened lately that tipped you off that this was going to be something good here this week?   
 JACK NEWMAN: No, I was just really comfortable the whole week. The game settled in. Making a lot of putts. And match play you either make it, you have to make it or if you don't, the hole's over. So I think knowing that it's a lot easier, too.   
 My swing felt great. Played my little over-the-top cut as usual, so.   
  
  Q. There were times when he had opportunities to clear the match?  
 JACK NEWMAN: John? Oh, yeah, yeah.   
  
  Q. Yeah, on the second 18. I mean, obviously, there is nothing can you do about it. Are you thinking okay, he's going to make a move here? It may happen here?   
 JACK NEWMAN: Oh, yeah. My stomach was turning. Wondering if he was going to make it. When he didn't, I just think of it as dodging a bullet and going on to the next tee and trying to win it.   
  
  Q. What would you say your next favorite victory would be?   
 JACK NEWMAN: I would say this spring I won a college tournament.   
  
  Q. What did you think of Murphy Creek?   
 JACK NEWMAN: Murphy Creek's awesome. The elevation change I wasn't really prepared for. Usually hitting 8-irons, 160, 150, now I'm bombing them 180, 190. A little bit of an ego boost, I tell you that.   
 But Murphy Creek's in great condition, the greens were real smooth, and it was a pleasure to play.  
  
  Q. Could you feel the heat out there today? It was probably close to 100.   
 JACK NEWMAN: I was going to say which heat? Oh, yeah, I felt it for sure.   
  
  Q. One question that would make people --  
 JACK NEWMAN: Oh, man.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about 18?   
 JACK NEWMAN: That was really big. My brother said try to rain on his parade. I figured he'd make it because he'd been making those putts all day. So it was just all or nothing on that, and got lucky it went in. Just had it coming off the fringe.   
  
  Q. When you're playing a guy like that kind of aggressive and hits a long ways, does your mindset remain exactly the same? Do you use another method to beat this guy? How do you approach it?   
 JACK NEWMAN: It's just my method of whatever they do compared to what I do. It doesn't matter how long they hit it. They hit it off fine or something, that may change. But other than that, if they're aggressive and they do something, then I'm going to be aggressive to stay out there with them.   
  
  Q. If you went to the Masters, you win the match, you're the 8th Amateur Public Links.   
 JACK NEWMAN: Yeah.  
  
  Q. Oh, yeah. What are your thoughts? I mean, you're going.   
 JACK NEWMAN: Yeah, I'm going to the show. Pretty pumped about going. It should be an experience to see all of the top pros in the world playing there.   
  
  Q. What now? What is the first thing you want to do when you get down there? Who do you want to find?   
 JACK NEWMAN: I don't know if I'll be playing in the par 3 contest, I'll tell you that. Because I don't want to have a chance to win that (laughing). No, I'm just kidding.   
  
  Q. How about getting the ball off 16, over the water?   
 JACK NEWMAN: I don't know. I'll have to experience that. But anyways, first thing I want to do down there is just get the experience and meet some pros. Pick their minds on what to do.  
  
  Q. Have you ever been there?   
 JACK NEWMAN: No.  
  
  Q. Nope, never been?  
 JACK NEWMAN: Never been there.  
  
  Q. Any chance you'll find Zach Johnson?   
 JACK NEWMAN: Yeah, hopefully.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)?  
 JACK NEWMAN: No, I do not know him. My teammate actually just signed with Zach Johnson's agent. I guess he's been contacted, but I'm a little unfortunate.   
  
  Q. Is your former coach up there?   
 JACK NEWMAN: Yeah, my former coach is up there. Met the guys. They're all laid back. He left for Iowa, and I stuck around because of the guys in school. Got some really good freshmen this year who will be sophomores. It should be good. Randy is here too, so.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)?  
 JACK NEWMAN: To the Masters? I can go there and practice whenever?   
 THE MODERATOR: No, he has to get the invitation to do that.   
 JACK NEWMAN: What's the guy's name? Oh, Billy. Sorry, Billy. Hopefully, Billy sends it to me. But if I don't, tough luck.  
 THE MODERATOR: I'm not saying you're not going to get an invitation. I just didn't want you to think you could go down there tomorrow (laughing).   
 JACK NEWMAN: Yeah, I'm just going to buy a plane ticket from Aurora. Awesome.   
  
  Q. So how do you feel? You just won a USGA event; not many people have done it. If you look at Trevor, Trevor is one?  
 JACK NEWMAN: He was 9, 10 years ago, wasn't he?   
  
  Q. Oh, you've done your history?   
 JACK NEWMAN: Well, there is that little video that they showed us. But I'm unbelievably excited. That's all I have to say.   
  
  Q. How many texts did you get?   
 JACK NEWMAN: I don't know. There's a lot. I had to turn it on silent.   
 THE MODERATOR: Congratulations, Jack.  
 JACK NEWMAN: Thank you very much. Appreciate it.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT