MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
June 7, 2007
Angela Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Angela, thanks for coming in.  You're leading the Rookie of the Year, you're leading a major, you've been in contention every week.  How does this feel to once again be at the top spot.   
 ANGELA PARK:  I've been here a couple of times this year and it doesn't feel much different.  Obviously I haven't been able to execute the last three days and hang in there but hopefully this week will be a little different.   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Can we just go over your scorecard?   
 ANGELA PARK:  Bogey on 4.  6-iron from 150 yards.  I 3-putted.  The putt was around 40 feet.   
 No. 6, birdie.  Hit 8-iron from 134 yards to 25 feet.   
 Birdie on 8, 245 on the green, par 5, with a 3-wood to ten feet.   
 Par 12, 6-iron from 159 yards to 15 feet.   
 14, 120 yards, 9-iron to about a foot.   
 16, pitching wedge to 110 yards to about 20 feet.   
  
  Q.  You were leading after the first round last week; is that correct?   
 ANGELA PARK:  Yes.   
  
  Q.  And so what did you learn from that experience that will help you this week to maintain contention?   
 ANGELA PARK:  No matter what, doesn't matter which round you're on, first round, second round, third round, fourth round; the tournament is not over until you make the last putt.  And I realize that because last week on the last day, if I would have just shot 2-under, which means if I didn't have my doubles and my bogeys, I would have been in contention for the playoff.   
 So that makes me realize no matter how bad the situation gets or how bad you're playing, if you keep trying and trying and trying, you're going to be on top of that leaderboard on Sunday.   
  
  Q.  How does that feel to be in this position in a major?   
 ANGELA PARK:  It feels great.  I feel like all of the hard work and all of the hard practice and support my parents have given me, not finally paying off, but it's obviously paying off a little bit.   
 I'm having a lot of fun and just enjoying my time here.   
  
  Q.  To what do you attribute your success?  This is your rookie year and it usually takes time to adjust to new golf course, travel, restaurants and the whole thing.  Why has this been such a good year for you?   
 ANGELA PARK:  I think it's been such a good year because it's been so consistent with my parents around.  Obviously some rookies don't have their parents around and it's a little bit hard when you don't have your support group around you.  I was always, as a junior golfer, I traveled a lot.  So I'm really used to traveling.  It's not that hard on me.   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Angela, nice work, congratulations.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT