GINN TRIBUTE HOSTED BY ANNIKA
May 31, 2007
Angela Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DANA GROSS-RHODE:  You had a great round today. 
 ANGELA PARK:  Thank you. 

 Q.  6-under par, 66, leading the field right now by two strokes.  Just talk about your round and then we'll go over your scorecard. 
 ANGELA PARK:  Today I woke up in the morning and I was really tired after the long Pro-Am yesterday, but I had a lot of fun.  I just came out here and did my routine:  Hit a couple balls for about 40 minutes.  Nothing was in my mind. 
 I just went out there, and I obviously knew the course was going to play tough, and if the wind picked up it would have been playing even tougher.  But I wanted to have my mental state right there and then, and it worked out today. 

 Q.  Can we go over your scorecard? 
 ANGELA PARK:  Birdie on 1. 
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  How far out from the green, what club you used. 
 ANGELA PARK:  156 yards, 5-iron to fifteen feet. 
 And then eagle on 3, 4-iron.  I think I had about 185 to twenty feet. 
 Birdie on 6, pitching wedge, about 100 yards to seven feet. 
 9, 9-iron from 120, to ten feet. 
 11, oh, right, 57 yards, lob wedge to about three feet. 
 16, had 86 yards 54 degrees to fifteen feet. 
 18, had 151 yards, 6-iron to about seven feet. 
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Thank you.  Go over the bogeys, too on 4 and 15. 
 ANGELA PARK:  15, I had about 151 yards, 8-iron, 3-wood through the green and chipped it and 2-putt. 
 On 4, I hit it from about 120 yards and chipped it and 2-putted. 
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Okay.  2-putt from how far? 
 ANGELA PARK:  About ten feet. 
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Okay.  Questions? 

 Q.  I'm just wondering what you've learned in this, your rookie year, about getting a lead this early in the tournament and keeping that momentum going? 
 ANGELA PARK:  Obviously I've had a lot tournaments where I was in the lead and I wasn't capable of sustaining that lead all throughout the week.  So I'm learning a lot. 
 I'm trying to be more patient and not trying to force anything, because obviously I'm going out there the next few days and trying to grind it so much, where I could easily be relaxed as I was today and just play my own game. 

 Q.  What is it about this course?  It seems like you did well today.  Does it suit you?  Does this course suit your game a little bit better than some others? 
 ANGELA PARK:  Like last week it was more of a short game kind of course where everyone was usually on the same yardage, and whoever got the putt in.  Here is more of a ball-striking course, which I like because I grew up on a range and never really had the putting green to putt on every day. 
 So I always just hit balls after balls after balls, so I think it's in my favor. 

 Q.  You're in the middle of a big stretch of tournaments, right?  How many are you playing in a row, how many weeks? 
 ANGELA PARK:  This is the sixth in a row. 

 Q.  How are you keeping your stamina? 
 ANGELA PARK:  It's hard.  Now that I think about it I wish I took a week off.  But then, you know, now I know my limits, and from now on from the next years on I'll know when to take a break.  It's really tiring, to be honest. 

 Q.  What's your new limit then?  Have you decided? 
 ANGELA PARK:  Four tournaments. 

 Q.  Are you playing next week as well? 
 ANGELA PARK:  Yes.  And then another break.  There are no more tournaments so we have to take a break, right? 

 Q.  I have to ask, did the news of Michelle Wie dropping out today, did that get to your group somewhere along the -- 
 ANGELA PARK:  No. 

 Q.  I guess not. 
 ANGELA PARK:  I had no idea. 
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Follow up on the Michelle Wie question.  Being a young player out here, obviously there's a lot of attention to Michelle coming back to the event to the Tour.  What does she bring to the Tour, and do you ever feel slighted in that respect being one of the younger players? 
 ANGELA PARK:  No.  I think she gives everyone, all the younger and older players, something to drive for.  Obviously she brings a lot of attention to the Tour, which is positive. 
 You know, just having her around is actually a great honor because I looked up to her even though I was a year older than her.  I was like, Wow, she's really good for our age.  So I'm glad that she's around. 
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Any other questions for Angela?  Thank you for coming in. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT