EVIAN MASTERS
July 27, 2008
Angela Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Great job today. You're still smiling. You got into a playoff hole with a veteran. You know, you've got to feel pretty good about this. 
 ANGELA PARK: Oh, yeah, definitely. Especially after I how I started. And I saw Na Yeon birdie after birdie. I honestly didn't know if I had a chance or not. 
 I was actually trying to play my shot one shot at a time. At the last hole I made a birdie and got in a chance for a playoff which was far more than I expected today. So it was a great day.

 Q. Your choice to play 18, you birdied 18 all four rounds; did you play it differently in the playoff? 
 ANGELA PARK: No, I was a little nervous. My ball faded a little bit to the right. I had no shots to the green, so I had no choice but to lay-up.

 Q. Will you look back more positive at this tournament? 
 ANGELA PARK: Oh, definitely. I don't want to be negative about anything. That's not who I am. I want to be a positive person about everything, no matter what situation I'm in. 
 Hopefully, at the upcoming I'll be better. Hopefully, I'll be a little calmer.

 Q. First win is close? 
 ANGELA PARK: Hopefully, I hope so. It's just going to take a lot of patience. I'm going to be out here for, I don't know, 10, 15 years. I don't think I'm going to let one tournament let me down.

 Q. Are you looking forward to next week, a major? What are you thinking about right now? 
 ANGELA PARK: I just want to get there and get to know the course a little bit. Obviously, we are playing on foreign grounds, and it's hard to adjust. So I just look forward to play on an amazing court that I hear that it is.

 Q. What was your impression of the Evian Masters? I know you didn't finish last year how you wanted to? 
 ANGELA PARK: You know, I'm starting to like it. I see why Helen likes it so much now. It's a beautiful place. Everyone's so generous. 
 But I would love to come back here every year. It's been a great experience. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT