LPGA CORNING CLASSIC
May 23, 2007
Angela Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Angela, thank you for joining us today.  You are the Louise Suggs Rolex Rookie of the Year, and you've had six top 25 finishes this year this season so far.  Go ahead and talk about your season a little bit. 
 ANGELA PARK:  Obviously it's been a great privilege to come out here and play amongst the best player in the world.  It's been a really different experience, and I really didn't know I had six top 25 finishes. 
 So I'm just trying to have fun and get used to the new environment and place. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  All right.  Questions for Angela. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 ANGELA PARK:  Yes. 

 Q.  Have you had a chance to check out the course yet today? 
 ANGELA PARK:  I played nine holes on Monday and nine holes.  I'm playing the Pro-Am today. 

 Q.  What are the strengths and weaknesses of your game? 
 ANGELA PARK:  It's a pretty narrow course, I think, and you can't hit driver off the tee every hole.  You have to be precise in your club selection. 
 In the weak part of my game would be -- not the consistent part of my game I would say would be my putting, and the stronger part of my game would be my iron striking, which I can always depend on. 

 Q.  Are you surprised at all at how well you've done? 
 ANGELA PARK:  No, not surprised, but just actually really try to be better than I have done in the past few years.  So no, not at all. 

 Q.  What kind of goals to you set for yourself?  Do you say, I just want to make the cut or I want to win this week or I want to make the top 10? 
 ANGELA PARK:  Well, this year my goal was rookie of the year and make every cut of every tournament that I play in.  So that is -- every tournament that I'm trying to make the cut, that's my goal for every tournament. 
 Depending on how I feel about my game it would be Top 20, Top 10.  But obviously only got to Top 10 once, so I need to break through that stage and possibly go Top 5 and make that to possibly win. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 ANGELA PARK:  Passion for it.  Nothing -- my parents didn't force me to play.  A lot of Asian parents, as everyone knows, they're forced to play.  But it wasn't like that at all.  It wasn't like that at all. 
 I kind of grew up in an American-Asian way.  It's basically just love for the game that drives me to be here. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 ANGELA PARK:  Oh, yeah.  It follows the LPGA around.  It's been raining for like the first seven events, so it's nice.  It's sunny outside. 

 Q.  There is a slight chance of rain. 
 ANGELA PARK:  Slight is Okay.  There's like 80% chance of rain in other events, so slight is okay.  We're doing pretty good so far. 

 Q.  If we're sitting back here Sunday afternoon, what do you want to be doing?  Telling us how it feels to win your first tournament? 
 ANGELA PARK:  Of course a win would, you know, definitely highlight my year. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT