KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
April 1, 2006
Angela Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  You had it going for a while.
ANGELA PARK:  Yeah, I struggled on the back nine a little bit.  I had four straight bogeys but other than that, I feel like I played okay.  I just had a few mistakes out there, but go out there tomorrow and try to shoot a low score.
Q.  Was it tee shots or was it iron shots?
ANGELA PARK:  Some of them were off the tee and some of them were with my irons.  My putting was really good in general today.  I made a couple of tough par putts.  I think if I just increase my iron shots a little bit more tomorrow, I'll be okay.
Q.  How do you feel mentally, frustrated?
ANGELA PARK:  No, I didn't feel frustrated.  I just went out there and tried to have fun.  You can't stress yourself out, especially as an amateur.  I'm not gaining anything, I'm not losing anything; it's just a life experience.
Q.  Inaudible?
ANGELA PARK:  I always try to have confidence in my game, no doubt about that.  Work hard, try to have confidence.
Q.  Inaudible?
ANGELA PARK:  As I said a couple of days ago    inaudible    still in the hunt.  Maybe tomorrow it's a little harder because I think I didn't concentrate as hard as I should have today and in the galleries, all of my friends.

Just go out there and have fun and concentrate harder.
Q.  On the back nine, did you start looking at the leaderboard?
ANGELA PARK:  Actually on the front nine I looked.  Once you're doing well, you can't help but keep looking at it because you want to see your name up there.  Yeah, I guess I did.  There's always tomorrow, you never know what's going to happen tomorrow.
Q.  Inaudible?
ANGELA PARK:  Oh, yeah, the fairways, if you don't hit the fairways, it's pretty hard to get a par.  I struggled there.  Tomorrow I'll try to hit all the fairways and all the greens.  I think I only hit nine greens today.
Q.  You hit eight yesterday.
ANGELA PARK:  I know.  Yesterday I got lucky on a couple shots.
Q.  Are you going to wear your pants tomorrow?
ANGELA PARK:  Well, if it's raining I will, but I don't think it will rain.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT