U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 5, 2005
Angela Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
RHONDA GLENN:  Well, how do you feel about the win?  That's a pretty big victory.
ANGELA PARK:  I feel great, actually.  I mean, I don't think I ever putted that well before.
RHONDA GLENN:  Really?  How many putts did you have?  Let's try to figure that out.
ANGELA PARK:  Oh, I don't know.  I birdied five holes, so that would be    13.  Do we really have to count?  I have a bad memory.
RHONDA GLENN:  That's all right.  What are you going to try to do tomorrow?  You have a pretty big match against Morgan Pressel.
ANGELA PARK:  I'm not going to try to do anything.  I'm just going to go out and play by myself, play my own game basically, don't focus on her.  I know she's a great player.  If I play as well as I did today and my putts keep dropping in, maybe, fortunately, maybe I'll get ahead of her.
Q.  I think you shot 30 on the front nine.
ANGELA PARK:  31.
Q.  Six birdies through 11 holes; is that right?
ANGELA PARK:  Yes.
Q.  And what happened?  You had her pretty much beat at that point, and then you started struggling, what happened with your game then?
ANGELA PARK:  I did that yesterday.  I was 5 up going into 12 I think, and then I lost 13 or 14 and 15.  So today going out there I feel like I was 5 up after 11, I feel like, keep this up and keep trying your best, it was play your own game right.  I struggled a little bit, which is usual for golf.  So I didn't get frustrated.  I just kept trying to keep focused and I made my putt on 16.
Q.  Were you surprised to be up that much so quick, given that she won a couple of weeks ago?
ANGELA PARK:  I wasn't surprised.  I tried really hard.  I mean, I came out here probably, what, two or three hours before my tee time and started putting.

I knew it was going to be a tough match and I knew she is a really good player.  So I didn't get really nervous because I didn't really think about her.  I said I would try to play my own game.
Q.  Is that normal for you to come out a couple hours before a tee time and practice like that?
ANGELA PARK:  Well, there's nothing to do at the hotel.  (Laughter).
RHONDA GLENN:  When you came here this week, did you have any particular thoughts about what you were going to try to accomplish?
ANGELA PARK:  Yes.  Because the last two USGA events I played in, U.S. Girls' and U.S. Public Links, I did pretty well in stroke play and I struggled in match play.  I kind of brainstormed on my own, like asking myself, what is it that I cannot do at match play?  Like I just can't play my best during match play.

My thought is I think about the opponent too much:  "Oh, is she going to make that or is she not going to make that."  So all I did out there is assume that she's going to make the putt.  Even though it's like 50 feet or she's off the green, I'm like she's probably going to chip it in.  Just focus on your putt.  That's how I keep up.
RHONDA GLENN:  I've heard from some great match play players that that's a great way to do it, assume your opponent will make the shot.
Q.  You shot 63 second day of stroke play in the Girls', and then you lost in the playoff.  Was that a motivational factor coming in this week, knowing you played so well the first two days, and then you ended up losing to someone that was well back in qualifying and you probably should have beat?
ANGELA PARK:  Yeah, it was a big, how do I say, like my first thing was, let's get through the first match.  Like not lose your first match, please.  And I know the girl that I played with really well, and I've known her for like three to four years already.  I got paired up with her and I'm like, "Dad I'm playing with Hannah."

And he's like, "Oh, my gosh."  He's like, "Don't even worry about her."  I was like, okay.  And hey, I won.
Q.  Is that an eye opening kind of don't take anybody    that anybody can be beaten?
ANGELA PARK:  I mean, I think match play, you never know what's going to happen.  I was 5 up and I went to 2 up, so you never know.
RHONDA GLENN:  How do you keep your composure when something like that happens, you lose three holes pretty quickly?
ANGELA PARK:  I get kind of nervous.  A lot of people can be like, oh, that's nothing, but kind of scared, she's coming in, there's only three, four holes left.  I just tell myself, just keep going and get birdies and pars and sooner or later you'll be dormieing and you'll be okay.
Q.  She said she was tired; did you sense that?
ANGELA PARK:  That she was tired?  Did I sense that she was?
Q.  Yeah.  Did you feel that she was dragging at all?
ANGELA PARK:  Well, I don't know.  I'm a really fast walker, so I hit and I just go.  So I have no idea what she was thinking.
Q.  She had two long matches yesterday.
ANGELA PARK:  Oh, yeah, that's true.
Q.  Both you and Morgan have jumped out to big leads early in a couple of matches, do you think you're going to have to do that tomorrow just to keep up with her?
ANGELA PARK:  Well, I can't tell the future for you, but I'm just going to keep trying to play my best.
Q.  What about her game impresses you most about Morgan's name?
ANGELA PARK:  Her putting.  I mean, everything she looks at, she makes it.  So I'm just like, wow, wish I could putt like that all the time.
RHONDA GLENN:  You did pretty much do that today.  You made a lot of good putts.
ANGELA PARK:  Luckily, yes, I did.
Q.  Can you talk about, you're from Brazil and born there and then you moved here?  At what age did you come here?
ANGELA PARK:  I was born there and I moved here when I was eight.  I lived with my brothers, three bothers and my dad, and my mom is still working in Brazil.  My dad is taking care of me and my brother, and my mom is working.
RHONDA GLENN:  And you are a citizen of Brazil?
ANGELA PARK:  Yes.
Q.  Your mom is back in Brazil?
ANGELA PARK:  Yeah, mommy works, daddy takes care of Angela.  (Laughter).
RHONDA GLENN:  Sounds like a big job.
ANGELA PARK:  I think it's actually stressful taking care of me more.
Q.  What does your mom do back in Brazil?
ANGELA PARK:  She has a factor in embroidery, if you were going to ask what kind of factory.
Q.  She owns the business?
ANGELA PARK:  Yes.
Q.  Did she come here basically for golf or how did you end up coming here?
ANGELA PARK:  I came here for studies because my brothers came here for studies.  I just picked up golf here.
Q.  You have older brothers?
ANGELA PARK:  Three.
Q.  Where were they going to school?
ANGELA PARK:  One is in the Culinary Arts Cooking School, and one is in the    I don't know how you call it, it's like a company, like a support company, and the other one does nothing.  (Laughter).
Q.  Where were they going to school here when they came here?
ANGELA PARK:  Oh, they didn't do very well to be honest.  (Laughter).
Q.  So do you speak other languages?
ANGELA PARK:  Portuguese.  Oh, the interesting thing was, her caddie was from Brazil, so he spoke Portuguese and I spoke Portuguese to him.  I was like, whoa, you're so good.  I was like, wow.
Q.  Kim's caddie from was Portugal?
ANGELA PARK:  Brazil.  He lived there for two years and he's pretty good.  Better than me.
RHONDA GLENN:  So that might make you feel at home.
ANGELA PARK:  Yeah, he was like, so you're from Brazil.

And I'm like, "Yeah."

He was like, "I'm from Brazil, too."

I was like, "Do you speak Portuguese?"

"Yeah."

And I was like, "Hi, how are you?"

He was like, "Oh, I'm good."
Q.  Are your parents Korean?  Were they born in Korea or Brazil?
ANGELA PARK:  Korea.
Q.  How did they end up from Korea to Brazil?
ANGELA PARK:  I don't know.  I don't know, just bring my dad here.  I don't know.  (Laughter).
RHONDA GLENN:  Thank you very much.  Congratulations and good luck tomorrow.
ANGELA PARK:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT