ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 3, 2014
Raphael Jacquelin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   I can assume that you are happy with today's round because you are up there leading?  
    RAPHAËL JACQUELIN:   Yeah.   Pretty happy, especially the way I finished.   I birdied 17 and 18, so it was good before having dinner and going to rest.   So no, pretty happy with the score.   Not too much with the game overall because of course, I didn't play that well, and not as well as yesterday.   But it was not that easy, a bit of wind, a bit of rain, a bit of cold as well.   But I think the course was not playing that difficult as expected, but if I imagine to shoot under par or par, I'll take it.  
   
 Q.   These kind of conditions in this kind of format when you play with amateurs, this could also cause delays, so how do you deal with this?  
    RAPHAËL JACQUELIN:   Well, that was fun.   We had a good team, making good team with Ernesto, and we had fun.   I mean we lost some points two times.   We just had fun, tried to take the pleasure, and it's a nice condition for them, and it's good fun for us, too.   It's a bit slow, but it's not that bad again.   We did well and we're happy.  
   
 Q.   Generally speaking, how do you feel about your game at the moment?  
    RAPHAËL JACQUELIN:   Feeling all right.   I missed a few shots, but I hit it pretty solid, especially finishing on 18 like that, it gives some confidence for tomorrow and for the weekend.   Happy to be up there, for sure, and I'm happy with my game, yes.  
   
 Q.   And how does it feel to go into the weekend as the leader to know that you're going to not have to get up tomorrow, at least to go to St. Andrews tomorrow as the leader?  
    RAPHAËL JACQUELIN:   It's always a bit fitting.   I've been working hard every year since the last 20 years to be at this position.   I feel good.   I feel good, definitely.   It's a long weekend.   It's a lot of golf to play, so you know, the game of golf, it's not that easy.   You just have to stick to the same plan and see what happens.   But yeah, again, working out to be at this position, so very happy again.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT