HNA OPEN DE FRANCE
June 28, 2017
Raphael Jacquelin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Second Rolex Series event of the year, how do you feel?
RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: I feel all right actually.  It's always a pleasure to be in Paris and to play Le Golf National, especially what I've seen and the condition of the course.  So yeah, it's always good for the French to play here.  A bit more pressure, of course.  But the course looks good and I feel all right.
Q. And how do you deal with the pressure, because a lot of players find it difficult to perform on home soil, especially with all the fans and family and friend around the place.  How do you tackle it?
RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: Well, let's say it's a help for us.  Try to turn that into a positive thing, and the first shot on the first tee going to be a bit more difficult than the other courses.  But it's quite wide on the first hole and the fairways are soft, so it's going to be okay.
Q. The course is pretty but also very difficult.  It's tough to get a really high score here.  Can you explain, especially the back nine, how you see the holes?
RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: Well, there's a lot of water in play, first of all, and it's going to play long because the fairways are quite soft.  Otherwise the greens are firm for the long irons.  So it all depends on the weather.  If it doesn't blow too much, it's okay, but we'll see that through the first two rounds.
Yeah, as I said, a lot of water in play.  Some difficult shots off the tee, like the par 3, No. 2.  That looks really narrow, but again, as a French, we know the course pretty well.  We know exactly what we have to do on certain holes just to putt the ball in play and try not to be too aggressive and for the rest, keep dry.
Q. Do you think the weather conditions this week will make it a bit more receptive for you?
RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: It will.  I think we are expecting a bit of rain every day, so that's going to help keep the ball on the greens for sure.  For the rest, as I said, the fairways are soft, so I think we are going to reach more fairways than is usual, but then it's going to be longer shots.  But again, it's a tough course, so it's going to be another good test.
Q. What's the first thing you think of when you think of France?
RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: When I think about France, in general?  Bleu, blanc, rouge.  Blue, white, red.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT