VIVENDI SEVE TROPHY
September 14, 2011
Raphael Jacquelin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   SARAH GWYNN: Raphaël, thanks very much for coming in today.
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: Pleasure.
 SARAH GWYNN: Just sum up for us how great it is being at the Vivendi Seve Trophy this week.
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: First of all it, was a great surprise. Jean told me at the end of last week that Alvaro Quiros was injured so I didn't know what happened to him, but then he called me on Monday morning and he said, you're in now. 
 So I was happy for me, but disappointed for Alvaro, especially this year for Seve, I think he would love to play and he's injured now. I feel very sorry for him. But happy to play the Seve Trophy in France. 
 SARAH GWYNN: And this is the first Seve Trophy where Seve sadly isn't with us. Is it going to be quite sentimental this week? 
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: Yeah, it's going to be something different tomorrow morning for the first shot. I think Miguel is going to hit first, so that's a bit different. 
 I played twice the Seve Trophy with Seve as a captain. He was a great man and it's going to be tough I think tomorrow morning for the ceremony, but after that, we'll try our best and play for him, because he loved the game and that's what we are going to try to do tomorrow as well.
 SARAH GWYNN: As well as the emotional side.
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: It's a lot of fun playing in a team competition. 
 SARAH GWYNN: Just describe the atmosphere in the team dressing room at the moment.
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: The team is great. Yesterday night we had dinner all together, both teams, and yeah, we had good fun. It's always good to play as a team. Only played the Seve Trophy three times now but it's a great feeling. 
 I love to play with all of the players. Every time I played the World Cup, either with Greg or Thomas, it was great fun and I to help the other guys and I would like to be helping, as well. Yeah, I'm enjoying this week, the next four days, and try to get the best. 

 Q. The dinner last night, must have been very sort of emotional with José Maria talking about Seve. 
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: Yeah, he just talked about Seve, maybe for five minutes, it was a big speech, and it was quite a big emotion at this time. And then after that, the atmosphere was really relaxed. Yeah, we had a good fun and a good red wine, actually (winking). 

 Q. As you said, you played a lot of Seve Trophies and you played the World Cup, you must be sort of thinking, when are you going to make your Ryder Cup debut?
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: I hope I'm not going to wait until 2018. I try to play -- well, next year, of course, try my best. But as José said yesterday, it's getting really tight to be part of the team, of The Ryder Cup Team. He said it's more difficult now, actually. 
 So that's what he said yesterday. You just have to do your best as you do every week, and then it's just a little thing that could change the order and then you can be picked up or maybe straight on the team. 
 So there's not much I can do. Just try my best and working hard like every week and we'll see if it's going to be enough for next year and two years down. We'll see for 2018. I'll be 44, so should be all right (laughing). Still young. 

 Q. Since the first Seve Trophy, Continental Europe have not managed to win one of them and yet this looks a very strong team. Are you confident that you can beat the Great Britain and Ireland team this time? 
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: Yeah, confident with your team, yeah. With Thomas Björn winning the last two weeks, but many winners on the team, many young guys playing. 
 Well, we have got a different type of game, as well. Nicolas Colsaerts, who hits the ball a long way which I think is going to help in fourballs, he can manage a different kind of game. 
 So yeah, our team is really strong, feels strong. And you have got some guys, as well, like myself and in older guys, we have got a bit more experience than the young guys.
 But I think it's going to be a good mix, and GB&I is always good, No. 2 in the world, Lee Westwood, with Darren Clarke winning The Open. It's going to be fun. Let's see who is going to play against who tomorrow. We'll see the first fourballs, and we'll see at the end. But, yeah, looking forward to play tomorrow. 

 Q. And just a quick follow-up, please. When Matteo came on the scene, people were saying, this is the new Seve. How impressed are you with him as a player, as a player and his maturity for such a young person?
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: Actually I played quite a lot with him already. So the first thing I was impressed of Matteo was the attitude, attitude on the course. I think he's 19 years old now, and he feels like much older, like he's 35 on the course actually. He's calm, he's relaxed and even when he missed a shot, you cannot see when he's upset or whatever and that's unusual for a young player like 19 years old. 
 And for the rest of his game, he's got everything to do well. He's shorter than some other guys, but he's fine with it. He knows how he plays and he knows how he hits the ball and he's fine with it. And he's very confident on every tournament. So he's going to be confident this week and I think he's really happy to play as well. 
 SARAH GWYNN: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT