BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 28, 2011
Raphael Jacquelin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. How good was that score? 
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: I'm very pleased for sure, my score and the way I played, since the beginning of the week. It's a challenging course. It's difficult. Even when the weather is great. Yesterday afternoon was a bit more scorable, but it was tough, anyway. So patience, again. 

 Q. Westwood said yesterday it's a bit like a Major in that respect?
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: That's exactly what I said. It feels for me like a Major. You have to really be patient on every shot, and more than anywhere, so, yeah, like a Major, and I like the feeling, really, after 15 years on Tour, I'm starting to be ready maybe.

 Q. But you like that challenge, don't you?
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: Yeah, yeah, and it fits pretty much my game. Put the ball in play very good, and normally I hit quite a lot of greens, even if it's difficult here to hit some greens. But even if you miss the green, you have to miss on a good side to get not an easy up-and-down, but more chance than on a bad side. 
 Yeah, patience, and the key is, again, going to be shot by shot. Tomorrow, same again, because I think there's not one shot easy, even when you've got a lob-wedge to the green, even, maybe, I don't know on 18 or whatever, it's difficult to get close. 
 So going to have some tough pins, as well, tomorrow I think. But yeah, patience, every shot, shot by shot, we'll see with the weather. 

 Q. What did you do last Tuesday when France won The Ryder Cup bid?
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: Well, last Tuesday I was in Terre Blanche practising hard, practising hard to make the team, because I was very positive on The Ryder Cup for France, so I was practising hard already. I think it's great for France. It's great for golf in France, because it's going to help everybody who is involved in golf -- it's going to be nice. It's going to push everybody. The Sport Minister is going to push the French, we need some players on that team now, definitely. 

 Q. The combination of the Olympics and The Ryder Cup going to France, a lot more government money coming into the game?
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: Yeah, it's great, for all of the people who are involved in golf in France. 

 Q. How old will you be in 2018?
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: 44. It's okay, should be all right with my swing. I'm going to practise, anyway, hard. If I don't play, I'll be around. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT