VOLVO GOLF CHAMPIONS
January 28, 2011
Raphael Jacquelin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. 11-under for two rounds around here, very good scoring, what's been the strength of your game so far? 
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: I holed many putts. That was the key during these two days, and I played a lot better today. I made a lot more fairways today. I hit the ball straighter than yesterday, so I had many chances and I did it. 
 So no, very happy, just been lucky with the weather I think, this side of the draw, no wind at all today. Just a touch but it was really good weather and a good day to score. 
 So, I did it. It's never easy but I did it. Very happy.

 Q. Decent performance last week, mid 20s in the tournament, how did you prepare for this season?
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: I prepared in the south of France. The weather was not that good but the greens were great down in Terre Blanche where I practise with my coach. I spent ten days around Christmas and the new year and actually it worked. So I will go back down to the south of France. 

 Q. A little while since you've won a tournament. About time you did, I think. What about you? 
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: Yeah, since 2007 I think in Shanghai. Yeah, it would be great, but there are two more rounds to play and a lot of guys playing well, as well. 
 So there's no -- I'm not going to think about to win too early. I'm just going to play my game. If I keep playing like that, I will be around, for sure. 

 Q. You started off with a 4-under par round today, so it starts 7-under par for today. How good was that?
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: That was better, definitely. The way I played today was definitely better on every part of my game. I had a lot of chances around three or four metres and I holed a lot. I had some birdies at the end, I had a big putt on No. 8. 
 No, I think I'm very pleased. Lucky with the weather and not a touch of wind today. The sunshine, as well, compared to the other guys who started yesterday afternoon, a lot of wind and this morning a bit of rain and windy. I was the good side of the draw but still 11-under is a good score, very happy.

 Q. Does it get easier the more you play on this new course?
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: Depends on the pin positions, really. Yeah, it's good, the more you play, the more you know the course and the lines, and the tees on the greens, as well, where to put the ball to get the best chance to make a birdie. 
 But it's not easy. There's going to be some difficult pin positions during the weekend. So just have to be careful; it can be dangerous. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT