THE BARCLAYS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 12, 2009
Raphael Jacquelin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. A wonderful back nine, you must be very happy with that. 
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: I'm happy, that's for sure. The way I played this week was great. So I'm very happy to shoot low and to be in contention at the end, but I think Martin is, as well, in contention, but I'm happy with my round today.

 Q. Could it possibly have been any better, because you looked to be really good in all departments. 
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: Yeah, I missed a short one on 15, and I had a good chance on 18, but I couldn't do better because I made a great up-and-down on 12, had a good putt for four. It was a bit tougher today, so 66 anyway is good.

 Q. You must be feeling good with Turnberry just around the corner. 
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: Yeah, the way I played the last few weeks is great, so getting in form at the moment, so if I can keep this form for the next week, that would be great. 

 Q. Lovely round today and disappointing perhaps that you didn't quite; how do you feel?
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: I can't be disappointed. It was a difficult day and the way I played all week, I can't be disappointed. 
 Yeah, I'm going to be short to win, but it's been a great week, very happy the way I hit the ball, and my putting is improving as well. I holed many putts today, so I can't be disappointed at all.

 Q. Did you feel the spectators willing you on? Did you feel it? 
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: Yeah, yeah, I felt it. I think that from yesterday and today, the crowd was great. I tried my best to put a lot of birdies on the card and I had a good chance until the end.

 Q. The course has brought out a lot of good play from the golfers, hasn't it. 
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: Yeah, it's a nice track. I love to play here. It's just nice. The greens are I think a little bit better than they used to be so, that was great to see. The weather has been fantastic, I would say the first three rounds, and even today we were lucky to play the decent weather. But another great week. 

 Q. So you don't really have anything to work on for next week, do you. 
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: Looks like I'm in form, but it's going to be different. Might be a lot of wind, and we'll see. But I like to play on the links course anyway, so if I can keep this form for next week, it would be great. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT