THE BARCLAYS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 11, 2009
Raphael Jacquelin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: I think I've got the game to shoot low here but it's never easy to finish, difficult 18th hole. Very pleased, very happy with the way I played. 
 The last three days is fantastic, I don't know what's going on tomorrow, but we'll see. 

 Q. Do you always expect rain one day at least?
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: I don't know, just waiting for the forecast and see what's going on. But if it can stay like this, I think it's pleasant for everybody, the crowd and for us, so everybody is happy. 

 Q. Is this the sort of form you want to be taking to Turnberry?
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: Yeah, the way I hit the ball is great since the last few weeks. So I hope I'm going to keep the same for next week and then I'm starting to hole a few putts, so might be good. 

 Q. Playing with Masters Champion today, can you use that as a yardstick as to how your own game is? 
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: Well, he's a nice guy to play with, he's so relaxed, and he's so fast, as well. So I'm not that slow. We had a little gap in front of us which was good. No, it was great. Very pleasant. 

 Q. You got the round to a good start with the eagle at 3. 
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: Yeah, I missed two shots at 1 and 2, which was not very good, it was for birdie, but I played great the first two holes. I hit a good 5-iron on 3 straight down the pin and holed this one. The putt was three metres maybe maximum. That was a good shot. 

 Q. Sort of start you want tomorrow is to get off to a good start?
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: Depends on the weather, we'll see. Yeah, of course, you know, it was playing downwind today, No. 3, so that makes it a lot easier. I don't know what Angel hit on the second shot but I think 9-iron. 

 Q. So the game is pretty good, isn't it? 
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: Yeah, it's easy when you play, hits it long and drive. But I'm happy with the way I played. Hit straight and keep that form for next week, as you said. 

 Q. When do you start thinking about winning? 
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: I don't think about that. I was playing well, so I just try to be, to, shoot low as much as I can and then we'll see. But you know, 18 holes tomorrow, you can make a lot of birdies and a lot of mistakes, as well. 
 So just play the best and we'll see. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT