JOHNNIE WALKER CLASSIC
February 21, 2009
Raphael Jacquelin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: I was surprised at my tee time this morning, thought I would have a lie-in, but a bit of a lie-in tomorrow maybe. Happy with the way I played, after last Sunday with a 62 in Kuala Lumpur, I got the rhythm back.   
 So very pleased, and yeah, the course is in great shape. It's not very long. I think it fits my game and maybe fits the game of Damien McGrane as well. Yeah, the greens are great, especially in the morning we have been lucky to play in the second group, with Phillip Price and David Howell. We didn't wait at all all day long, so compared to the first two rounds, it was a big change, because it took like five hours the first two rounds to play.  
 No, the rhythm was great. The rhythm was fantastic. I started well and then when you get this rhythm and you don't wait at all, you can go for every green, every pin and make the score sometimes.   
 GORDON SIMPSON: And I see after missing the cut in Abu Dhabi, your results have gotten better and better the last few weeks. Maybe a first this time?   
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: Yeah, after you play a few in a row, you get the rhythm back. Maybe it happens today. It's good to be my last round tomorrow after four weeks in contention, so try to win the tournament, which would be a good present for the next four weeks.   
  
  Q. Any stand-out shots or chips?   
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: I think the way I played the par 5s since yesterday and today, especially with the rescue, I think the 5-iron and the rescue were two clubs very hot, in the first three rounds. I don't know why, but every time I hit the 5-iron and a rescue, it was straight at the pin.   
 My caddie said to me, it would be good to have a 5-iron on the 18.   
  
  Q. Talking about the greens, this is day three; are the greens getting any faster, and are there any tricky positions?  
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: Not really. Because I remember when I played a few years ago in the Heineken, it really was firmer and faster than it is this year.   
 So I think it's a bit easier to play. Even today was not that fast at all, especially when we play in the morning. We are not really going to play in the afternoon on the weekend, so we can stop the ball on the green very ease even on a long shot and with a 3-wood or rescue, and that's a big difference compared to a few years ago when we played this course. Before you could not stop the ball with a 5-iron, it was not any good contact.  
 Downhill of course that's fast, but it's not ridiculous fast.   
  
  Q. Could you talk us through the eagle on 10?  
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: That was a good drive down the middle and a rescue about three metres pin-high. That was a perfect rescue club from the fairway and a good read. I think it was 208 to the pin, so 218 or 220 metres maximum.   
 GORDON SIMPSON: How far was the putt for eagle?   
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: Three metres.  
  
  Q. When you won in Asia a couple of years ago, do you feel as though you were playing better at that stage of the tournament?   
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: I think I played pretty much the same level at the moment. And the way I played the last few weeks was very good as well. I didn't score that well, but you know, you need to play really well if you want to win a tournament at the moment on this tour, because I think the guys coming on Tour, especially the young guys, are just hitting the ball so long and going for the pin on every shot.   
 So, yeah, your level has to be really -- your level has to be better than it was I think. So difficult, but that's the game, and that's why we are playing here. I'm here to win, so I'm going to do by best to win again.   
  
  Q. Do you feel as though another win, it's due?   
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: I want to win again, that's for sure. That's why I'm practicing. That's why I'm working hard. So it's good to be in contention again.   
  
  Q. When you stand up on the tee, what's your game plan --  
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: Two options. You can't hit it short or else you have the run-out on the left; and your second shot, maybe 3-wood. So for me, really it's the driver. Even with the wind today, we could have a chance to go on the green, so I hit a drive down the right, very close to the right bunker, and if it hits in the bunker, you're going to lay up very short.   
 I would like to have a chance to hit the green in two if it's possible. If it's into the wind I can hit the driver and not do the run-out too far left. It's a tricky hole, especially from the tee, and it's difficult lay-up second shot. Yeah, three good shots.   
 GORDON SIMPSON: What about your new image, is that going to stay this year?   
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: Maybe.   
 GORDON SIMPSON: Well played and good luck tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT