THE CELTIC MANOR WALES OPEN
June 1, 2008
Raphael Jacquelin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Pleased with the week?
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: Especially after the last few months, the way I played was not very good, so I'm happy to be up there again, to talk to you again, and my game is a lot better. I think I hit a lot of fairways and a lot of greens this week, so that was the key of my top three this week. 

 Q. I think everybody is pleased for you, because that's a horrible couple of months you've been through but you were in such wonderful form prior to Korea; it's good to find that form again?
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: Yeah, I knew it would take a bit of time to come back, but it's always difficult. But I'm back, and I'm happy the way I played and the way I am at the moment. So everything is good. 

 Q. Obviously it's a mental thing, as opposed to any physicality. 
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: Exactly. There's nothing wrong with the rest. Sometimes you focus on something else, and at this level, at this level you can't be focused on something else. You are ready to be in it in the game to compete against all of these good players because when you look at the leaderboard, 22-under leading, you have to be focused on your game if you want to compete with them. So, I'm back. 

 Q. That's a ridiculous score, isn't it, 22-under par; you finished a very remarkable 14-under and didn't have a hope on the final day, sad to say. 
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: Not at all. I played with Robert Karlsson and his start, I think he was 7-under after 11 and 8-under after 12 or something like this. It was nice to watch and it was good to play with him, because I had to do well to play better and I think it's a good thing. It was a good thing for me today. 

 Q. I don't know if you can reflect on this 22-under currently for Scott strange as we speak. 
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: Yeah, we were talking with Robert in the recording area and I said, "Maybe I can find two shots on my game today, but not four." Robert shot 7-under, he's 7-under as well for the day. When you've shot 7-under the last round and when you're leading, you deserve to win. 
 So I think it's a good win from Thursday to Sunday and very pleased for Scott. He's a good guy.

 Q. What's next for you?
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: Next Monday, tomorrow, U.S. Open Qualifying. If I play like this, I think I've got a chance to qualify, because it's a tricky course and you never know, a few putts and going to San Diego.

 Q. So you've still got an appetite to play in a major like that?
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: Yeah, I've never played in the U.S. Open. I've played in the US PGA and British Open, but not the U.S. Open, so I'm going to try to do it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT