EMAAR-MGF INDIAN MASTERS
February 9, 2008
Raphael Jacquelin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   SCOTT CROCKETT:  Raphaël, thank you, as always for coming to join us.  It was a difficult day out there for everybody, but you must be pleased with where you are in the tournament and your performance today.   
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN:  Yeah, of course, it's always good to be on top of the leaderboard, and of course I'm happy to be there.  I'm just a little disappointed with the way I putted today.  I didn't hole any, except for one on 14, to make a good eagle.  But the rest was really poor on the greens.  So that's why I'm a little bit disappointed but pleased to be up there.   
 SCOTT CROCKETT:  How far on the 14th, would you say?   
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN:  Five metres.   
 SCOTT CROCKETT:  What about 10 and 11, what did you do there?   
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN:  The pin position was a little difficult because I think if it was pin-high it would have been comfortable but I just pulled my 7-iron on the left, had an easy chip, but I missed like a bit more than a metre, again.   
 And on 11, I hit 3-iron and 7-iron on the front trap.  It was not a difficult bunker shot but just missed it four metres past the pin.   
 SCOTT CROCKETT:  Difficult day or difficult concentrating on what you're trying to do.   
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN:  Of course, when you look at the leaderboard, but the course was so difficult to play.  It was really tricky today.  I was just concentrating on my game as usual, I would say, and just try to put it in play from the tee, because that's really the key of this golf course, especially into the wind.   
 So, no, I was concentrating on my game.   
  
  Q.  ?   
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN:  There's a big difference between today and the first round.  The first round was no wind at all.  Just today, when it's into the wind, it makes the holes pretty much longer, like the first hole or the sixth, I played like a 3-wood and a 4-iron to play the sixth and that's really tricky from the tee and especially today, the pin position was in the back right.   
 So just more difficult because you have some longer irons to play, and from the tee if you want to be really safe, you're going to play like a 3-iron from the tee and you're going to have another 3-iron to the green.   
 So it's a good course, actually, into the wind.  Difficult, but good test.   
  
  Q.  ?   
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN:  I don't know what the forecast is for tomorrow, but if it's windy like this, anything can happen on the golf course.  If you lose confidence off the tee, it's going to be hard to finish the day.    
 So just going to stay as usual and try to put the ball in play.  That's normally the good part of my game.  I'm pretty confident in how I'm hitting the ball and hopefully I'm keeping all of the putts for tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  ?   
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN:  Yeah, I don't know why, I like to play in Asia.  I think a lot of people think that the golf courses are not very good, and that's not right, because we play a lot of good courses.  And I like to travel, so, I don't know, I should be confident on the grainy greens maybe.  I'm getting used to them now.   
 No, I don't know why, but maybe I'm going to think to move to Asia maybe.   
  
  Q.  ?   
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN:  I played the practise round in the Pro-Am on Wednesday, and really I was thinking about if there was no wind at all, the score was going to be really low for winning, and it's not low at all.  So I was completely wrong, and I know why now.  After a round like this it today, it can't be really low.   
 SCOTT CROCKETT:  Raphaël, well done today, good luck tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT