EMAAR-MGF INDIAN MASTERS
February 7, 2008
Raphael Jacquelin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   RAPHAËL JACQUELIN:  Yeah, I played very pleased the way I played, the way I hit the ball, and I holed a few putts, so that's good.  The greens are good.  They can be fast down the grain and keep the lines, so there's a bit of green, you have to read it properly but I feel pretty much confident on the greens so, it's always good.   
  
  Q.  It's pretty tricky out there, I know you got into trouble on one particular hole, but otherwise you kept it in play, I think.   
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN:  Yeah, which hole was it --   
  
  Q.  Double-bogey hole, 17.   
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN:  I was like three inches left of the pin so it was pretty much in play.  It was just a chip-in and 3-putt.  Just a shame to make a double-bogey when you just miss the green by a metre, it's not a difficult chip.  But that's it.  That's part of the golf.   
 But I managed to make some birdies after that, so that's the good point.  That's a positive of the day.   
  
  Q.  Do you like it here, Delhi Golf Club as a start, and Delhi as a wider thing.   
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN:  The golf club is okay, it's a tricky course.  It's good sometimes to be focused really put the ball in play, because that's going to be the key this week.  If you don't put the ball in the bush one time, you're going to be all right.   
 The rest of the city is a little bit busy for us, a little difficult to find a good restaurant, but we found a good one yesterday, so keep going to the same one.   
  
  Q.  I take it like most of us, it's the first visit here, is it?   
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN:  Yeah, first visit.  It's going to be second visit in two weeks time.  But it's okay.  The weather is good.  It's all right.  No complaints.   
 It was a bit cold in the morning.  I was expecting it a bit more hot but that's fine, no worries.   
  
  Q.  And you will be back, because I've heard mutterings of one or two people not entirely happy with what they have seen so far in India.   
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN:  It's never easy the first time, but I think after you know a little bit more the city and then find a good place to go, that's it.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT