OMEGA MISSION HILLS WORLD CUP
November 25, 2007
Gregory Havret
Raphael Jacquelin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Your comments on the day and the tournament. 
 GRÉGORY HAVRET:  Very good day, with he played good golf.  5-under was a very good score.  We probably thought we would be at least in a playoff but the other boys went very low also.  Yeah, we tried our best really, and we hit some very, very good shots on the front nine, the back nine, and the other ones will probably be a little bit better. 
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN:  To shoot 5-under in a foursome, the last round of the World Cup, that's always good.  I would have signed for that for sure.  Just the team we played with played fantastic.  Especially Boo just hit the iron shots straight to the pin at every hole.  Maybe they are going to win this World Cup; if they holed a few more putts today, they would win for sure. 
 But we still have some work to do. 

 Q.  You've got a lot of experience at playing this competition.  Do you like this partner? 
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN:  No, we had good fun.  That was the plan, just to have some fun and try to give ourselves a chance for the end and to win the title, which is what we did until the last hole. 

 Q.  I take it you'd like to have another go next year, albeit it a long way to decide but you want to be back, don't you? 
 GRÉGORY HAVRET:  Yeah, of course.  It's a great format, a great competition.  A team competition is something really special and means a lot for us, for me, that's for sure.  We really enjoy the place, also, and the week was really tremendous, really fantastic.  So, yeah, I'm looking forward for the next one and maybe the other one. 
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN:  We are getting old!  We have a few boys behind us pushing. 

 Q.  And what do you think of the OMEGA Mission Hills event? 
 GRÉGORY HAVRET:  They are signed for 12 years and it's fantastic, and it's good for golf and good for everybody and good for us, of course.  This place, I think -- I don't know if they are going to change the courses or whatever, but this place is amazing.  We'd like to come back next year. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT