BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 21, 2007
Raphael Jacquelin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   SCOTT CROCKETT:  I know it's late and you're getting dinner on the table very soon, but just tell us about your round.  1-over par after three wasn't so great but then it was all glory after that. 
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN:  Yeah, but you know, this year it's easy to make bogey when you miss the fairway.  I just missed the fairway on the right on No. 3, and then I missed maybe two-metres-and-a-half putt for par. 
 Then on this course, you've got a lot of chances for birdies.  You have some short holes and you just have to be concentrated and stay focused and put the ball in the fairway and then you're going to have a lot of chances.  So that's what I did.  And then I shot three birdies in a row. 
 That's the key, put the balls in the fairway, because after that you have a lot of chances. 
 SCOTT CROCKETT:  As joint course record holder, a place you enjoy, obviously. 
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN:  Yeah, I don't know why really.  It's a nice little course and it's getting more difficult every year.  Still the same length of the course and the rough makes it a bit more difficult. 
 I say again, you're going to have a lot of chances for birdies. 
 SCOTT CROCKETT:  And you're still on course for the double. 
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN:  Yeah, I don't know, I won the car in 2001, I shot 10-under one time, and I won the BMW Asian Open, so I don't know.  I'm a BMW man. 
 SCOTT CROCKETT:  They will be very pleased to hear that.  (Laughter). 

 Q.  Some players had some trouble with the weather in the afternoon; did it bother you? 
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN:  The wind was not easy, really.  It was gusting a little bit.  So like No. 14 was really long, I shot a good drive and a 3-iron to get there. 
 So, yeah, it was not easy, but that's part of the game really.  We play 150 players, we play all day, so one time you've got the good draw, one time you don't have the good draw.  Maybe tomorrow, we've got perfect weather and I'll not be able to score that well. 
 When you hole the putts like I did today, I think the weather will be bad and I will score anyway. 

 Q.  Any shots that stand out? 
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN:  Par save on 14, I holed a great putt for par.  And what else, I hit some great shots on the fairway, especially the 3-wood like on No. 18 and No. 9, I'm very pleased with that and some good putts, really. 

 Q.  Is the rough as thick as the U.S. Open? 
 RAPHAËL JACQUELIN:  I don't know.  I didn't play the U.S. Open.  I just watched a little bit, I watched Friday for two hours and didn't see any birdies in two hours so then I stopped.  It was not really pleasant to watch.  So I think the rough was thicker there than it is today, but thick enough for us. 
 SCOTT CROCKETT:  Raphaël, well done.  Thank you. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT