WGC ALGARVE WORLD CUP
November 19, 2005
Raphael Jacquelin
Thomas Levet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Five shots behind, very good in the middle of the round, eight birdies in nine holes?

RAPHAEL JACQUELIN:  The thing is, I think Thomas holed a chip on 7 and then we were in a really good mood.  And we tried our best and we holed a few putts today, better than the first round I would say.  It's getting better, may be good tomorrow.
Q.  Tell us about playing conditions, scoring is not quite as good as day one?

THOMAS LEVET:  No, it's not.  You can't carry the ball that far, it's going probably 25 yards shorter on the drive.  And you cannot reach the par 5s easily, what used to be like drive, 3 iron and drive, 3 wood and sometimes drive and lay up and wedge, so that makes the scoring a bit difficult.  And the par 3s were extremely long today.

For my part, I hit 2 iron twice and a 3 iron, and only No. 8 was a shorter one downwind; 8 iron was the club.  It was not that easy to score these holes, and our partners had troubles an all of these holes and it makes a big difference with us.  We went pretty good on the par 3s today.
Q.  I heard a rumour you were slightly injured early in the week; are you okay?

THOMAS LEVET:  I hurt my finger.  The last three weeks, it has not been very good.  I've been to the physio, I don't know how many times, just to be able to make it to the World Cup.  It was just swollen.  It wasn't that bad, but I could not play on the practice days, that was a bit painful.  But it's finished and the putting is getting better.  When you can't hit balls, that's all you practice is the putting, and it's getting better, that's all.
Q.  You've played the last four or five World Cups together, what about your chances for tomorrow?  Do you fancy your chances coming from three or four behind?

RAPHAEL JACQUELIN:  It's foursomes, so anything can happen.  It's a tough format.  I don't know if maybe we can shoot 4  or 5 under or maybe more, and then we'll see tomorrow.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT