DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 27, 2003
Raphael Jacquelin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Well played today - your thoughts on the round?
RAPHAEL JACQUELIN: The weather today was just unbelievable. There was no wind, the sun was shining and it was almost warm at points!

Q. No bogeys on the card, that always satisfying?
RAPHAEL JACQUELIN:  Yes, I didn't make any mistakes today - apart from missing a short putt for birdie on the 18th, my ninth hole today.

Q. And you made so many longer putts for birdie today - do you know how many you had?
RAPHAEL JACQUELIN: I think it was 27.  I did have a few very good putts today - especially on the 17th were I had a very tricky one from about eight metres down the slope. Then I holed from 10 metres on the third so it was a great day for me on the greens.

Q. You've had lower rounds in your career, but equalling the course record at a course like Carnoustie must rank as one of the best?
RAPHAEL JACQUELIN: Yes - I've shot 62 and a couple of 63's before but this round is certainly one of my best. I've put myself in a very good position for tomorrow and that just makes it all the more special to be in contention for such a big tournament.

Q. It would be nice to secure your first European Tour win here?
RAPHAEL JACQUELIN: I would love to win it - it would be a fantastic competition to win for the first time, especially with the players that are playing here this week.

Q. Does it add to your excitement when you see your name next to the likes of Westwood, Clarke, Els and Campbell?
RAPHAEL JACQUELIN: For sure. That's where I want to be - at that level and I'm looking forward to tomorrow at St Andrews. I know St Andrews quite well - I have played two dunhill cups there and then have played this tournament for the past two years, but I think I will be sending my caddie out early in the morning to have a look at everything and the way it is set up.

Q. Will there be any nerves?
RAPHAEL JACQUELIN: I think I will be a little nervous but I expect that. It should help me to concentrate on my game as well.




End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT