BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 24, 2016
Raphael Jacquelin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Very well played, two superb round in the 60s.  Just tell me what do you feel has been the key to posting those low numbers here in Germany this week so far?
RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: Generally my ball-striking since Wentworth -- I was not really happy about my ball-striking.  Been working with David Leadbetter and my coach at Wentworth, and I've hit more fairways and more greens.  So it's a little bit easier than I used to do during the beginning of the season.
For the rest, the short game is still there.  I'm putting well and I have a good pace and around the greens, I managed to save some pars, so that's it.
Q. How do you feel the golf course is playing, given especially given the rain we had last night and this morning?
RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: It was not too bad actually after the rain during the night.  It's been all right.  The greens were perfect for us.  We were the second group, and the first maybe nine holes were just perfect, so we could roll some putts.
But for the rest, the course is doing pretty well.  The rough is thick, that's for sure.  It's not easy for the long hitters, I have to say.  So that's maybe why I'm around there.  But I hit it pretty good, so I'm happy with that.
Q. You said last night, solidly yesterday, but you had not been in this position for awhile and now you've backed it up with another really good round.  How do you approach and how are you feeling heading into the next 36?
RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: I've been there already.  On Tour since '97; I've won four times.  I'm just going to focus and stay focused on what I'm doing at the moment on my swing and my short game.  The rest, I'll try my best to shoot low again, and we'll see.  We'll see at the end of the weekend.
Q. How do you feel about backing up such a wonderful start with another nice, solid score?
RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: It's always good to shoot a solid round after a good 65.  That gave me some confidence for the weekend and put me right up there.  That's what I was looking for; but it's never easy?  Easy to say not easy to do sometimes.  Very happy about my ball striking and my short game.  Yeah, that was solid again all day long.
Q. In somewhat different conditions; how was the course playing today after storms overnight compared to what it was in the first afternoon?
RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: I was surprised actually after all the rain during the night, the course is doing pretty well.  The greens were maybe just a little bit softer.  But no, it's doing pretty well.  No complaints about that.  The rough is thick, so try to avoid the rough.
And then for the rest, that's why it's maybe not easy for the long hitters because the rough is brutal.  So even if you hit long, you're still going to lay up.  So I'm hitting a lot of fairways and a lot of greens; that's my game.  Really happy with a 68.
Q. Is this the best, most comfortable you've felt about your general technique in quite some time?
RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: Yeah, definitely, from last year, midseason to Wentworth to this year, I was not happy with my ball-striking as I said.  I've been working on it the last two, three weeks now, every day.  And that's what I used to do a lot when I was young, spend a lot of time on the range, practise drills and do it again, do it again.  I did a little bit less because it's difficult when you're getting past 40.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT