BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 23, 2016
Raphael Jacquelin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What do you reckon shooting a 65 around here to start?  
RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: I'm very pleased, of course, as you imagine.  I played solid pretty much all day long.  A bit tough at the end but I managed to save some good pars.   
The wind was picking up again, so it was not easy at all.  I tried to stay focused on the game and the way I was hitting the ball, and yeah, did pretty well and very happy for that, and leading, been a long time.  It's a good feeling.   
 Q.  Does this mean you stayed out of all the rough stuff out there and left yourself plenty of opportunities?  
RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: Yes, it is.  The rough is brutal so you definitely have to keep the ball in play.  That's the big key this week.  It's always a big key but a bit more this week.  Yeah, too much in the rough and one or two times I've been there, I was lucky to get kind of a good lie to save the par, so you need some luck to shoot a low score.   
 Q.  You said about leading for the first time in a while.  There have been some good signs that your game is in nice order, haven't there?  
RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: Yeah, it's been a long time, but it's difficult.  I'm still practising hard and working hard on the game, and here we go, sometimes it pays.   
Yeah, very pleased again, as I said.  I'm just going to try to do the same the rest of the week.   
 Q.  Have you been positive, feeling that the game is coming around in decent shape?  
RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: Yeah, since Wentworth, actually, I've been practising a little bit with David Leadbetter in Wentworth, and my ball-striking was not very good.  It was not solid at all.  I was not really happy with that.  Been working on it every day since then.  It's definitely solid, a bit more solid.  Yeah, I'm very pleased with that, too.   
 Q.  How did the Leadbetter meeting come about?  
RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: I work with David since 1992.  I saw him at the PGA this year, and I used to see him every year in France or in his place or in Champion's Gate.   
 Q.  Did you stop and start again?  
RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: No, it's always been like this.  My coach is Alain Alberti from the David Leadbetter Academy.  So that's why I see every year David once or twice, and this time, that was at the PGA.   
I was struggling a little bit on my ball-striking, as I said, and he spent like maybe 2 1/2 hours with me, Thursday, Friday, and he saw a few things.  Yeah, I keep working on it since then.   
 Q.  Does it make a difference when someone like him spends 2 1/2 hours with you?  
RAPHAËL JACQUELIN: As I said, I know him since 1992.  I mean, he's got different eyes; he can see some things you can't see and you can't feel.  Yeah, it's always good.  I like to see David once a year.  I'd love to see him more, but I mean, I don't play in America, so doesn't work like this.  Working with him and my coach has always been good.  He gives us the direction and we just follow to keep the same direction, so that's what he did at the PGA.  He said, hey, guys, look at this, look at that and it's better.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT