NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: MIGHTY DUCKS v DEVILS
May 31, 2003
Steve Rucchin
Ruslan Salei
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Rusty, Mike joked you bang it off the glass with the best of them.  What was going through your mind when Adam won the draw back to you?  Was a shot immediately in your mind or what was the situation there?

RUSLAN SALEI:  Yeah, in that situation, when you win the draw, you got to shoot.  As long as there is a line to shoot it, you've got to take a shot and hope for the best.

Q.  Can you talk about how important it was coming home here after the first two games in Jersey with the home crowd and obviously needing a big win and being able to get it in front of the home crowd?

RUSLAN SALEI:  I mean, it's really important.  We're down two games and coming home, we need to get one game going.  We need to get momentum going.  That was huge for us.

Q.  Ruslan, can you talk about the thrill?  I guess it's everyone's dream, scoring the game-winning goal in the Stanley Cup Finals, especially at home .

RUSLAN SALEI:  It hasn't hit me yet.  It's unbelievable, though.  It's only one game, hopefully it will be 7 games or 6 games.  So far it's the biggest goal I scored.

Q.  Ruslan, you were something like about plus 10 in your last 20 games.  Do you think this season is kind of a breakout season for you?

RUSLAN SALEI:  Well, every season you try to get better, and every season you try to improve yourself and improve your ability to play whichever situation you're in.  So far it's been going great for me.  Hopefully it's going to continue.

Q.  I'll give one for all of you.  Penalty-killing, you guys had to kill off lots of penalties early in the game.  Can you talk about how important it was to get those killed? 

STEVE RUCCHIN:  Well, it's a tough situation, I think, for both teams that early in the game.  I can speak from experience.  It's pretty difficult going in when you're not that warmed up and game prepared and play on the powerplay and penalty-kill.  It was fortunate, too, the crowd was in it.  That's been definitely a strong point of our game all season long.  It's something we need to rely on if we need to win some more games in this series.  They've got some good players over there, a lot of talent, a lot of goal scorers.  When you've got J.S. as one of our best penalty-killers as well, that helps us too.  


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT