BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
May 25, 2006
John Wells
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Tell me about a lovely day of golf.
JOHN WELLS:  Yeah, thoroughly enjoyed it obviously.  It helps having Gary Brown, my coach, who is the pro at Ganton on my bag.  Got off to a nice, steady start.  Made some birdies on 4, 7, 10 and 12. Just played nicely really. Just tried to keep it on the greens, putted well, did everything nicely.  Quite pleased with 3 under for my first round.
Q.  If you think about the start of play, any trepidation, a few nerves at the first?
JOHN WELLS:  Oh, definitely, if you're not nervous at your first Tour event, never mind one of the biggest ones, you shouldn't be playing.  I was nervous and I'll be nervous tomorrow and hopefully the next two days after that.
Q.  Take us back a bit.  Tell us how you got here and the intervening weeks thinking about it?
JOHN WELLS:  I got here through the North Region PGA.  I played that last year and I also taught and worked at Beverley & East Riding Golf Club.  And then I did well in the four Order of Merit events that count towards qualification for this event, finished third and got an invite to this and managed to get a small sponsor with a company called Bright Finance from Sheffield, which meant that I could play in a few more events that cost more money to enter, such as on the Euro Pro Tour.  So I played three of those this year, finished 7th, 14th and 4th in those. So I've been playing well, so this is just nice to play with some of the better players in the world really.
Q.  Playing well at decent quality events like that anyway certainly sharpens and hones your skills for this.
JOHN WELLS:  Definitely.  I'm just trying to do simple things well, drive it well, hit the greens.  If I don't hit the greens, fight to save my pars.  And that's it really, simple as that.
Q.  I believe you were the 2004 World Ice Golf Champion, quite an interesting one.  How did you get into it?
JOHN WELLS: We played in the Arctic Circle and I got invited by Drambuie. There were about 30 pros playing from all over the world and it was just a case of survival of the fittest and I think I survived longer than anyone else.
Q.  18 holes.
JOHN WELLS:  Four sets of nine holes, because you had to break after nine. We had to have soup to keep us warm. It got down to minus 25 at times.  In practice there was a blizzard.  We couldn't see any of the balls - they were red balls - when they finished.  And then in the actual tournament, it was quite a nice day actually.  It was still cold, but it was like when you go skiing.
Q.  What else have you played?
JOHN WELLS:  England boys and mens. Last year I won the Yorkshire Open.
Q.  And you're an assistant at Beverley?
JOHN WELLS:  Yes and teaching pro as well.
Q.  You had some Challenge Tour appearances, didn't you, for your card?
JOHN WELLS:  I went last year and made a mess of it, Stage One.
Q.  And you will go again?
JOHN WELLS:  I'll go this year, yeah.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT