U.S. MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 26, 2018
Kyler Sauer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I know it's not the way you wanted it to end, but a great week and you've got to be proud of it.
KYLE SAUER: Yeah, absolutely.  I'm so happy.  I mean, I know that was a bad way to end it.  I'm going to hear a lot from the guys at work about this for a while, but it was a lot of fun.
I definitely surprised myself making it this far.  Would've been great to have gone one more day, but I'm looking forward to being able to play the next couple years in this.
Yeah, I'm actually more looking forward to going home and relaxing and not touching a golf club for a while.
Q. And so you got an early lead in the match and he kind of came back.  What do you think was the turning point in the match?
KYLE SAUER: I think I got complacent.  I hit a couple bad shots.  I thought I hit a couple good shots, but rough kind of grabbed the club and didn't really move the ball.  Missed my spot by a few feet and he just took advantage of that.
I think once he was 2-up -- I forget what hole that was -- I just knew he was making a good charge.  I had already had a couple bad holes and then it just kept rolling.  I just had a hard time hopping of the train.
But that's a great comeback for him.  Coming back from 4-down, that's huge.  I definitely gave him the keys to do it.  Yeah, it was great time.
Q. What's your biggest takeaway from this week?
KYLE SAUER: That I can compete with these guys.  It was fun.  I haven't hit the ball this well ever, so to be able to compete with these players...
I'm watching all these guys hit balls on the range, now on the course, and now I'm keeping up with them.  I'm like, This is fun.  Like I got some game and I still got it.
So I think, yeah, just biggest takeaway is go home with a high head and know that I can play the game still; I can hopefully compete in the next few to come.
Q. Last question:  What has this whole experience meant to you?
KYLE SAUER: It's been huge.  Just been fun.  Obviously, like I said, it's rough not finishing, not making it to tomorrow, but it's just been fun.  I can't say that enough.  To be out here with my family and to be able to go home with a couple medals and just the experience, that's great.  Trophy or no trophy, had a great time.
Just going to go back home and relax and get back to work.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT