MLB ALL-STAR GAME
July 11, 2006
Mike Gaski
Rich Levin
John McHale
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  RICH LEVIN:  We have two announcements today.  The first one deals with Major League baseball's relationship with USA Baseball and the second with FOX Broadcasting and Turner Sports.  First with us is Bob DuPuy, John McHale, both from Major League Baseball, and Mike Gaski and Paul Seiler from USA Baseball.   
 JOHN McHALE:  Thanks, Rich.  Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for being here this afternoon.  I'm John McHale and on behalf of Major League Baseball, it's my privilege to announce a new ten-year partnership with USA Baseball.   
 Under this agreement, Major League Baseball will acquire all of USA Baseball's commercial rights, enabling USA Baseball to focus on it's resources on growing amateur baseball in the United States.   
 A significant element of this multi-faceted partnership is the decision by Major League Baseball to acquire USAB sponsorship, licensing and other business rights which will immediately be transferred to our business arm, Major League Baseball Properties.   
 MLB Properties will provide USA Baseball with a guaranteed level of annual funding to support it's athlete programs.  MLB Advanced Media, LLP, the interactive media and Internet company of USA Baseball will also attain USA Baseball's Internet rights.   
 In return, MLB has contributed over $10 million of financial support over the term of this agreement.  We believe that this agreement will strengthen the national governing body and its amateur programs, including USA Baseball, national teams and their respective identification programs, by allowing USAB to concentrate on it's stated mission, to grow amateur baseball in the United States.  USAB will assist through its structures and partnerships and business strategies while investing in the future talent and interest in the game.   
 I want to especially thank and recognize two people who are with me here today, Mike Gaski, President of USA Baseball, and Paul Seiler, Executive Director and CEO of USA Baseball for their efforts in completing this partnership.  We look forward to working with you for many years together growing our great game at all levels.  And now let me introduce to you, Mike Gaski and Paul Seiler.   
 MIKE GASKI:  Thanks, John.  I don't want to reiterate the comments made by John, but I do want to thank Major League Baseball for entering into this partnership.  This is a great opportunity for us to put our business first in order for a long term and concentrate on the growth of development of baseball at the grass roots level, both here in this country and then start to extend to other parts of the world.  We are excited about the opportunity.  It's a relationship that's been growing since the late 90s, as professional athletes became involved in our national teams and the relationship has continued to blossom and this is the next logical step.  We look forward to a growing relationship and a continued one for some time.  Thanks, guys.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT