NBA DRAFT
June 25, 2015
Kelly Oubre
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  KELLY OUBRE:   It's definitely been a blessing.   I got picked by a team that I never worked out for.   I met with them once, and I definitely couldn't be more happy to be a Washington Wizard.   I'm here, and I'm ready to start my career. 

Q.   Can you just kind of walk us through the course of events tonight.   I know it was kind of get drafted, that's an emotional high, then find out you get traded.   How did everything go down?
KELLY OUBRE:   It hasn't been bad for me.   I got traded but it was kind of in the flow of things.   When I got drafted by the Hawks, I was already told that the Wizards were trying to make a move on me, so I was already ready for it.   I just had to sit in the holding room until the whole trade got finalized, but I'm here now and I'm wearing the hat proudly.

Q.   What do you like about the Wizards and how you fit in with them?
KELLY OUBRE:   They have two young stars who are still making their way through the league.   I definitely feel like I can learn from them, play with them, and we can be successful together. 
By me doing so, coming in, I feel like I bring a lot to the team, I bring a lot to the table, and I'm just ready to get to work and help this team win. 

Q.   Can you tell us what your expectations were going into tonight, and also what do you think are your best assets?   What do you bring to the table?
KELLY OUBRE:   You know, my expectation was to go top 10.   It doesn't work out like that for everybody, but I still feel like I'm one of the best players in this draft.   My confidence is through the roof but I'm humble, also.   I know I have a lot to work and I'm ready to work on those things to help my team be the best that it can be.   I've been through some bumps and bruises in college, I'm going to go through some bumps and bruises in the NBA. 
I'm just ready to put this Wizards jersey on and wear it with pride and help the team win.   I want to win a championship and I feel like I bring a lot to the table, and I can help my team do so. 

Q.   Talking about what you bring to the table, can you talk about your story, your path here.   I don't know how many people know your career, your history to get here.   There's a lot going on coming from New Orleans.   Tell me about what your family taught you coming up. 
KELLY OUBRE:   Yeah, like you said, I was born in New Orleans.   Lived in New Orleans for nine years.   When I was nine I moved to Houston because of Hurricane Katrina kind of ruined the city a little bit.   I evacuated to Houston and my dad just decided he was going to keep me in Houston because they had better resources.   By him doing that, that was another sacrifice.   He left his job and we went through a little struggle through a point of time where we were living in hotels and cars. 
If it weren't for that time, long story short, I wouldn't be here today because that put a chip on my shoulder, and it allowed me to realize that everything that I've ever loved and had could be gone in a split second.   My family was moved around.   I didn't see my mom for about two months.   My little brother was a baby.   He was just born a couple years before that. 
That time was pretty hectic in my life and my parents had divorced.   So by them being split up we went separate paths.   I thought I lost them.   I didn't hear from them for a week or so.   I always think about that on the court.   That's what gives me my drive to want to be the best that I can be.   At this next level ‑‑ I've always felt like I've been slept on, and I'm ready to wake people up.   I'm motivated and I'm a worker, and I want to be the best that I can be at this next level. 
Аф



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT