NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: LIGHTNING v RANGERS
May 19, 2015
Alex Killorn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. You will have home ice advantage at least (Indiscernible)?
ALEX KILLORN:   Yeah, I don't know.   I mean, we were happy with a win.   We knew it was going to be tough going in to play and going in to win.   We're happy coming home 1‑1, but we realize they're going to play tough here in our home building.

Q.   Were they a little shellshocked at all knowing you had an edge and you guys kind of opened it up out there on them?
ALEX KILLORN:   I don't know that.   But when the game was 5‑2 without much time left, we sat back a little bit.   But I think throughout the whole game we played well.   That first goal in the PK shifted the momentum a little bit.   I think our PK did a good job killing the first penalty to try to get the team in the game.

Q.   What has Victor Hedman meant to your team especially this year?
ALEX KILLORN:   He's an unbelievable defensemen.   Not just on our team, but throughout the league, he's one of the best defensemen in the league.   He brings a ton to us defensively, which might not get him noticed as much as his offensive ability   because he scores a ton and gets a lot of assists, but defensively he's been very sound for us.

Q.   Have you noticed any difference in (Indiscernible) play the last few games?   He's starting to pick it up scoring‑‑ wise.
ALEX KILLORN:   Yeah, that's just the way it comes sometimes.   Sometimes you're scoring, sometimes you're not.   His work ethic has always been there, and that's why he's been such a good scorer in this league for a long time.   I think you'll continue to see that as he continues to score.

Q.   To see the way Tyler did that with the five‑on‑five PK and then shorthanded, how impressive was that to you guys?
ALEX KILLORN:   It was a huge goal.   For us it was a huge goal momentum‑wise, but it seems like he always scores goals in big moments for us.   I don't want to say we rely on him, but we look to him for that kind of leadership, and he's been there for us all year, and we expect that in the playoffs.

Q.   How surprising is it relying on a guy that three straight years was missing out in the draft and no one wanted him? 
ALEX KILLORN:   It's just one of those things.   Guys develop later on.   For him he was a small guy that kind of got looked over, and I think he kind of holds that attitude still, and that's why he's such a good player now. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT