ARENA FOOTBALL LEAGUE MEDIA CONFERENCE
December 19, 2006
David Baker
John Skipper
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 DAVE BAKER: Thank you, Chris. 
 Today is a great day for all of us  in the Arena Football League. As the AFL  embarks on its 21st season this March, I'm proud to announce today that it will  do so with a new media partner, the worldwide leader in sports, ESPN. ESPN and ABC will televise at least 17  regular-season games, nine playoff games, and the Arena Bowl through the year  2011. 
 This year ABC will bookend the  season by televising week one on March 4th, and Arena Bowl XXI, which will be  the first team league championship to happen in New Orleans since Hurricane Katrina, and that  will be on July 29th. 
 However, I think what's important  about this partnership is that it's more than a simple television deal. It's the most comprehensive and longest media  partnership in AFL history. Yes, the  five-year agreement includes network and cable TV rights, but it also includes  ancillary programming, broadband and new media rights, international  distribution, guaranteed promotion, and very importantly I think almost  historically certainly for a league our size an equity element to it. 
 ESPN has purchased an ownership  stake in the Arena Football League and is now a true partner as they are  officially an AFL owner. ESPN has really  impressed us in our discussions with them as being committed and motivated to  using its 15 distribution outlets to make the AFL a leading multimedia  property, global sports content provider. 
 But perhaps I think the most  important exciting element of this partnership for our fans is ESPN's strategy  of introducing year-round football on Monday nights. 14 of ESPN's regular-season games in 2007  will be broadcast on Monday night, which has become a football institution. 
 For more on ESPN's Monday night  strategy, I want to introduce to you an esteemed executive of the AFL's newest  partner and tell you that he and all the members of his staff who entered into  prolonged negotiations with us and our ownership have really been a pleasure to  deal with, and I'm excited about the impact that we're going to have in the future. 
 John Skipper of ESPN had to travel  to Newark, to Louisville, a lot of other places to get this  deal done and drop everything he was doing to work on it. We're thankful you did. Welcome to the Arena Football League family,  John. 
 JOHN SKIPPER: Thank you, David. You're assuming I was doing something else  (laughter). 
 I'm happy to be here. Appreciate everybody else being here. I'm excited about this deal because I'm a  football fan. I'm excited about the  opportunity to watch football year-round.  I'm enthusiastic about the Arena Football League's prospects. I think David and his staff and the owners  have done a great job of getting the league to where it is today. 
 We think with the commitment of  ESPN, we have a significant commitment across all of our platforms with a  consistent schedule on Mondays, with some promotional commitments we've made  with some ESPN marketing behind it, getting it across our Internet platforms,  including our broadband services, our telephone services, our magazine, our  news and information product, we we think we have a real opportunity to help  grow the Arena Football League. 
 We believe in its prospects, which  is why we have acquired an equity stake, which we're thrilled about. It's a new and interesting arrangement for  us. We think it speaks to the level of  our commitment, provides us an opportunity to sort of put our resources behind  growing the league and end up participating in that growth. 
 We're excited. I extend my thanks to the commissioner for  all his hard work and courtesies, and I'd be happy to answer any questions. 

 Q.  David, how long did it take and were there other possible deals you  could have made or was it just this one sounded so good you just worked pretty  much solely on this one? 
 DAVE BAKER: I'll tell you, I think first of all it was  kind of a situation where we're very thankful for NBC and all they did for the  Arena Football League the last four years.  But we were in a situation where we really couldn't begin this until  that relationship ended. That was I  think a couple of weeks after the Arena Bowl. 
 Since then we immediately began that  process and talked to multiple parties. I  think we had five of them appear at our board meeting, including John and three  other senior executives of ESPN, other real quality network providers, that  were at our board meeting at September in Newark. This has been kind of a process of  competition of multiple negotiations. 
 But at that meeting in September,  our board basically said in terms of our lead media partner, they wanted to  negotiate exclusively with ESPN. We  began those discussions I think, John, about the end of September. 
 JOHN SKIPPER: Yes. 
 DAVE BAKER: John actually attended another board meeting  I think the end of October. We concluded  about a week ago. 

 Q.  How big is your board?
 DAVE BAKER: The board meeting is a little bit like  stepping into the United Nations General Assembly. We've got 20 teams, but it's a situation  where each team has two representatives.  Sometimes they bring some staff.  It's a group where you have eight NFL owners, four NBA owners, Elway,  Jon Bon Jovi both there at different times.  I assure you that Jon has got strong opinions on TV. John Skipper did a good job holding his own  with all those guys. 
 At the end of it, I want you to know  that Jon Bon Jovi, Elway, the rest of the guys, all wanted John Skipper's  autograph. Fortunately we got it on a  contract. 

 Q.  John, why is it important to have the year-round platform on Monday  nights? 
 JOHN SKIPPER: Well, as you know, we say it a lot because we  believe it, which is our job is to serve fans.  Our fans love football. We've  had, as you know, a terrific year this year with Monday night. We've had a terrific year with college  football. We've had a wonderful  experience with the NFL Draft. We love  it when the training camps open. We have  had in the past a wonderful experience doing the Pro Bowl. In between all of that football, there have  been some gaps. I love the idea of  filling in those gaps. I think our fans  will love it, as well. 
 It seemed to us to be a good  opportunity. We worked with David in  terms of when he would be scheduling the league. It works perfectly for us starting in March  and ending in July. 

 Q.  David, was the equity part of the negotiations essential? Would you have not done this deal with ESPN  or anyone else if equity had not been involved? 
 DAVE BAKER: Let me tell you, we don't like giving away  equity. We don't like selling equity  because we think this is a property that is growing. 
 But I think it was kind of important  ultimately to both sides because, you know, I think this is a deal where in the  end - John, I don't want to speak for you - there is more money to be made by  growing the league than just by broadcasting the media rights. Therefore, it becomes a true partnership. 
 I think, therefore, ESPN becomes  strongly insentivized to promoting it and growing us. 
 JOHN SKIPPER: Yes. 
 DAVE BAKER: To my knowledge, again, I think this is a different  form of agreement and a little bit historic, like I said, certainly for a  league our size. 
 JOHN SKIPPER: I think for us, you heard me say in my  opening remarks, if we commit the resources of the ESPN media assets to grow  the league, we like the equity there as an incentive that we'll get recompense  for doing that. I think David likes it  as a form of commitment. It gives him a  tangible form of our commitment to the league and our intentions. 
 DAVE BAKER: This isn't dating. This is getting married. 

 Q.  You said there's going to be components with espn.com, the magazine,  that type of stuff. Can you describe  what that will look like? 
 JOHN SKIPPER: My general intention was to relay that our  intention was to use all of the media assets of ESPN. But, for instance, we might well do a  bound-in preview of the AFL in the magazine for the year. We do think we'll do an Arena Football League  fantasy game on espn.com. You'll look to  see us help the Arena Football League with their website, building out their  Internet presence so we can use some of our resources there. Those will be a couple examples of the kind  of things we might do. 

 Q.  That will all be new stuff? 
 JOHN SKIPPER: It will all be new, yes. 

 Q.  John, in terms of production, what are your plans in terms of the  television production side, in terms of using announcers? Are you going to tie to come up with new  things you might try out on the AFL you could use on Monday night as well in  the future? 
 JOHN SKIPPER: We will certainly look to be experimental,  innovative. I'd be misleading you if I  told you what all those things were going to be. We've been concentrating on the deal. 
 One thing I can announce. In the course of the negotiations, I was  traveling back and forth to the Monday night games. Jay Rothman, who is our producer, very  excellent producer on our Monday Night Football, said, Hey, I'd like to get  involved with that. As a sign of the  kind of level of people we'll put on it, Jay will be our producer on Monday  night. I'll get with Jay, David, Norby  Williamson who runs our production for us, make decisions on specifically how  we're going to produce the game, who the announcers are going to be. I would think we'd have some announcements on  that really in January. 
 The good news is I'm not being  coy. We got the deal done, now we got to  figure it out. I can tell you we're  committed to being innovative, experimental, and doing a first-shelf  production. I think that's one of the  ways we can enhance and grow the league. 
 DAVE BAKER: We happen to have a couple ESPN announcers  who are owners in our league. I got to  tell you, Mike Ditka and Ron Jaworski, who is a partner of Jon Bon Jovi and  Craig Spencer in Philadelphia, and Mike Ditka, one of the owners of the team in  Chicago, the Chicago Rush, they would call me almost every Tuesday morning  during the course of these negotiations wanting to know how things were  going. On the plane back from the Monday  night game, these guys would be talking to Jay Rothman about exciting things  they could do. 
 We're looking forward to getting to  work on that kind of stuff now. 
 JOHN SKIPPER: And lobbying me on the plane. I would point out because Mike and Ron are  owners, we do understand the restraints that will have to be put on their roles  in terms of analysis or news coverage. They're  owners and would have a conflict. But  we'd be happy to have them visit the booth. 

 Q.  John, you get in these negotiating deals with other leagues, how  important is having an equity stake just in having a little control over what  happens to the rights, that sort of thing?  Is this sort of a model for the future? 
 JOHN SKIPPER: I would agree with the last part of your  question there. We do believe it could  be a model. By no means is it 'the'  model. I would not confirm sort of your  assumption this might provide us more control.  We have a minority stake. I think  we have to be quite careful that the Arena Football League needs to do the  things the Arena Football League needs to do to succeed. 
 The main thing the equity -- in  other words, we don't have control. As a  minority shareholder, we can be overruled.  If we are not the best partner for something in the future, the Arena  Football League could pursue a different path. 
 However, if they did that, because  we helped to grow and develop the league, we would benefit from that. That is the principal motivation for us, is  that, look, we're going to benefit. 
 Having said that, we of course hope  to be the Arena Football League's media partner for many, many years. In the agreement we have some representations  to that effect. You heard David say it's  the longest deal they've done. We would  certainly hope we'll both be very happy partners for many, many years. 
 Control is not the purpose. 

 Q.  "Control" might not be the right word. You are in the room when these decisions are  made, right? 
 JOHN SKIPPER: We will have insight into the league that  certainly will be helpful. Again, that  wasn't really the motivation. I think  insight into the league can help us in terms of helping the league, whether it  be marketing services, thinking about how the rules are, how we might produce  the game. We hope to have a voice in all  that. To be fair to lots of our other  partners, most of our other partners are happy to have us have some voice in  that as well. 
 I would say the equity is primarily  a matter of financial incentive and commitment. 

 Q.  You mentioned obviously Jaworski and Ditka have to be limited in what  they can say. Are you going to have to  have disclaimers when you cover this on SportsCenter, that ESPN is a partner in  the league? 
 JOHN SKIPPER: I think we understand how to separate our  production of games from our news and information coverage. While this partnership takes the form of  equity, think about the significance and the depth of our relationships with a  number of the leagues. We have a very  significant financial commitment to the NFL, Major League Baseball and  NBA. While this new deal is very important  to us, those deals, the financial stakes, are even higher. 
 I don't think we will treat this any  differently even though the form of the financial participation is different. 

 Q.  I only say it because both you and David have talked about how the  equity means you have a real interest in promoting the league, making the  league get top-shelf treatment. You  don't slight other leagues. Being a  participant in that process, in the benefits of that process, do you think  you're going to need to label it in some way when you do it? 
 JOHN SKIPPER: I don't think so because I don't think we  will do -- it's a good question. We will  certainly have internal debate. I'm sure  the news and information people will weigh in.  We have an ombudsman who will weigh in whether we feel the fans need to  be told that in order to be cognizant of it. 
 However, we don't say when we do a  Monday Night Football game, we paid a lot of money for this game, you should be  aware we have an interest in promoting it across our networks. I think people understand that we and the  leagues are in business together. We  have just as much financial incentive to promote NBA games, promote Major  League Baseball games because we have a big bet on those. This just happens to take a different form. 
 I would think the more appropriate  comparison might be among developing leagues, growing leagues, this is one way  for the Arena Football League to distinguish themselves and get a greater share  of attention and promotion than they might have gotten otherwise. I don't think this is really relevant to what  happens with the NFL, Major League Baseball, the National Basketball  Association. It might be relevant to  other sports that are growing.
 DAVE BAKER: We're excited about this incentive for them  and for us to grow. But they've spent a  lot more money. I don't think we can  disclose how much. I can tell you they  have spent more money on the NFL than they have on us. 
 Specifically in our agreement I can  tell you that it does say that in terms of governance, they have the right to  information and the right to audit decisions but they don't vote on them. They can't change any rules and they won't  let me produce any SportsCenter shows. 

 Q.  What is this move going to do for the salary cap? Is that going to stretch the players  out? Those who have NFL hopes perhaps  are going to be playing from March until theoretically January. 
 JOHN SKIPPER: March through July. 

 Q.  Then training camp from there. 
 DAVE BAKER: I think this actually helps where we are kind  of with the NFL. Really this is a little  bit more expansive in terms of answering your question. Back when we were with NBC, we were starting  actually in mid January, a week or two before the Super Bowl. What this does is allows us to obviously  start three weeks after the Super Bowl. Our  regular season will end well before training camps begin in July. Our championship game is going to be at the  end of July. We'll have a bye week  before the big game. Really what this  does is it kind of puts our players in a better position really for an  off-season participation to the NFL. 
 The second thing is not long ago, I  think it was announced a couple months ago, the Arena Football League  traditionally of our eight players, six players had to go both ways. We just announced our Competition Committee,  then our board passed free substitution.  It means there can be more specialists and fewer guys going both ways,  which can kind of help develop it. 
 We now have a lot of guys like Michael  Bishop who is playing with Kansas City Brigade.  He also plays with the CFL in the off-seasons. Other guys, I think of a Randy  (indiscernible), who is with the Dolphins.  I think he played something like 48 weeks straight between the NFL, AFL  and maybe even the CFL. Kevin Swayne did  it with the Jets and the Dragons. We  actually think this is lot better for our players to position this for the  season in addition to being better for our fans. 

 Q.  What is next on your list of things to do? Getting maybe some of the teams and their  local TV deals done? 
 DAVE BAKER: I think there's a couple things. Number one is frankly we're working with Gene  Upshaw on an extension to our Collective Bargaining Agreement. I think we are close to potentially getting  something done there that will help us in the stability of our league for a  long time. 
 Second of all, we'll now put a lot  of supporting partners in addition to this that ESPN knows that strategy and  other networks and regional television situations that we're going to be in to  focus on games that will be on Friday nights and regional TV, satellite radio  and other Internet activities. From a  media perspective, in addition to Collective Bargaining, those are some of the  things. 
 In addition to that, as we get into  our 21st season, we're going to be looking at new markets like Washington and St. Louis and Miami.  We've got a lot of good work ahead of us here. 

 Q.  John, you did mention you're going to have to exercise some restraint on  Jaworski. You know what an impossible  task that is. 
 JOHN SKIPPER: We're happy to have Mr. Jaworski help us  think about this. We'll have him as a  guest. All I meant was we have to be --  obviously we can't have him on talking about a Philadelphia-New York game. Clearly if we were going to do anything to  where he got close to it, he'll have to disclose. 

 Q.  He'll be on everywhere else talking about the game. 
 JOHN SKIPPER: Absolutely.  Irrepressible.

 Q.  John, how is the equity part of the deal -- will it have any impact on  the ad split? 
 JOHN SKIPPER: Within the games? 

 Q.  Yes. 
 JOHN SKIPPER: No, it doesn't have any effect on it. We manage the ad inventory within the  games. We're going to work closely with  David and his staff because they've done a good job with sponsorships,  activating their partners' sponsorships.  We'll work closely with them. 
 We manage the inventory in the game  and the equity has really no relationship to that. 

 Q.  David, when you look at it, obviously the AFL grew up on ESPN before you  had the other TV deals. Was it kind of  appropriate or destiny that you would wind back up with ESPN? 
 DAVE BAKER: To quote one of my owners, Jon Bon Jovi, Who  says you can't come home? His new  country western song, he'd probably want me to say is a top five hit at the  moment. But, I mean, I do think what's  been interesting since this, there were people not only John Skipper, but guys  like John Wildhack, who is still at ESPN, we've dealt with, I always thought  was a great gentleman. When we would see  him along the way with other networks, I think John Wildhack felt a certain  pride that we were growing. 
 Clearly you look at ESPN, the  conglomerate that it's become of 15 different platforms, both the Arena  Football League and ESPN has grown. The  real factor in it is not only is this a home for the Arena Football League, but  this is a home for all sportsfans. One  of the interesting things that came up in our research was that when people  were asked, Where do you go first for sports?  The indexing on ESPN was something like a phenomenal 219. 
 We have a very young demographic, as  you know. All those young people I think  primarily go first to ESPN to find their sports information. But there's a whole lot of other sportsfans  that will now get introduced to Arena Football, the manner in which our product  has grown in quality since we started there. 

 Q.  John, being a little different with the Arena Football broadcasts, will  you look back and see how ESPN presented it years ago, how NBC did it? Will you take a little of what worked in the  past? What are some of the ideas you  might have in making the TV broadcast look better going forward? 
 JOHN SKIPPER: Well, I think we certainly will probably be  smart to look at the broadcasts and look at things that were well done, things  that we can improve upon. We'll look at  skycam, using that in some of the games which I think can be fun. I think we'll look at some HD  broadcasts. We will try to think about  some unique talent in the booth. I think  we can have some fun. 
 As we've proven on Monday Night  Football this year, I think you can have guests, musical elements. I think the Arena Football League lends  itself to that sort of a fun, entertaining environment. If you've been to games, it's young, it's  exciting, it's loud, it's close to the field.  I think we'll try to take advantage of all that, sort of creating a  production that feels noisy, I don't mean literally, noisy and close and fun  and exciting and quick cut. A lot of that  is to be determined. Stylistically  that's sort of our inclination at this point. 

 Q.  Could you be more specific in terms of the structure of the equity  deal? David, does this preclude the AFL  from any other equity deals? 
 DAVE BAKER: I think the answer to both questions is  no. This is a significant interest. It is not insignificant. It's not a time buy. It's kind of a multimedia, comprehensive  partnership. As John would say, told me  in the negotiations, they're giving real consideration for this. 
 The answer to your second question  is, we've been approached by a number of equity investors. We continue to study that as a  possibility. Our owners continue to  examine it. But it's not mutually  exclusive. 

 Q.  David, some of the staunch AFL fans are complaining with the rule  changes, going to Monday Night Football, you're taking their league away from  them, making it too much like football. They're  complaining they grew up watching the old Arena League and they would prefer to  keep it the same. 
 DAVE BAKER: Well, I think all things evolve. The Arena Football League has evolved in my  10 years here. I think as evidenced by  attendance being up 35% in the last four years, I think our Internet is up 410%  over the last three years. Our viewers  during that same time period have gone from 12 million to 65 million. All I can tell you is that there's a lot more  people watching it than ever before. 
 I listen a lot to fans. Our goal is to be the most fan-friendly  league in the world. I can still tell  you that this is like a drink out of a fire hose. It is high-scoring, heart attack,  helmet-popping, heart-stopping football all the time, where athletes are still  out there signing autographs after the game. 
 I think the game has only gotten better. I can tell you that we have played on Monday  nights before. The bulk of our games are  still going to be on Friday and Saturday nights. We're going to have more games on Friday and  Saturday nights this year than ever before because we're not having to play  games on Sunday afternoons, which is what a lot of fans want. 
 Really we think this is responding  to fans. Some of those rule exchanges I  can only tell you are coming from John Elway who is chairman of the Competition  Committee who knows a lot about football and believes strongly in this game. 

 Q.  That's the point they made. National  Football League people are making the decisions, not Arena Football League  people. 
 DAVE BAKER: I got to tell you, I disagree with that. I know John Elway as an Arena Football League  person. This guy loves our game. He spends 80% of his time, which is in high  demand, on the Colorado Crush and the Arena Football League. 
 I think he happens to be a former  NFL player who loves Arena Football. I  can't remember who it was who was from the Philadelphia Enquirer earlier, but  it was a situation where, let me tell you, Ron Jaworski, guys have accused him  of coming out of the closet for Arena Football because he loves it so much. 
 Whenever we talk to any owner who  comes into this league, I can tell you, without qualification, whether it was  John Elway or Jon Bon Jovi, Jerry Jones, the first thing we spend time on is  that mission statement and that fans Bill of Rights. If they don't believe in it, it doesn't matter  how famous they are, it doesn't matter how much money they're willing to pay,  they don't get in the Arena Football League. 
 I got to tell you, I look at a guy  like John Elway and I know he's in the NFL Hall of Fame, but I work with him  every day on the Arena Football League. To  me he is an AFL owner who happened to play NFL football. 

 Q.  ESPN puts out video games. I  believe EA puts out Arena League games. Will  anything change there? 
 JOHN SKIPPER: We have a partnership with EA guys. In video games, they do produce an Arena  Football League game. We've had some  early discussions, I've had some with David, some with EA, about when and what  might be appropriate for a next generation game. I don't think they've made any decisions  yet. We have to get you in touch with  the EA guys specifically. 
 DAVE BAKER: Yesterday we sent out a release that EA  Sports announced their second Arena Football game which will be in stores for  sale I think on February 27th. 

 Q.  John, will anything change in the way SportsCenter covers the game? Arena League never really had a prominent  news hole on SportsCenter. Will viewers  notice a different or will it be treated the same? 
 JOHN SKIPPER: It's almost of a chicken and egg question,  right? We're going to try to bring  innovation to the production. We will  try to grow the audience. We will try to  put some prominent faces in the broadcast booth. We're going to grow the league. That clearly will put it in a better position  to get coverage if more fans are interested. 
 We do have to have a certain  separation here, of the people who make the decisions on what news and  information goes on SportsCenter have to be allowed to make those without  regard to our partnership with the Arena Football League here. 
 However, having said that, we will  look for opportunities where it makes sense to do profiles of players, previews  of the league. We do, without apology,  make sure our fans know what's coming up on our network. I'm sure we'll look for opportunities to do  that. 
 We do take care about how we handle  these things. We'll continue to do that  with the Arena Football League. I think  the commissioner and his owners understand that, while I expect some serious  lobbying. 

 Q.  Serious lobbying from the commissioner? 
 JOHN SKIPPER: I'm just teasing. David is a passionate advocate for his  league. There's no question David and I  will be spending more time together, going to more games together. He'll have plenty of opportunity to make me  aware of the things we should be doing. 
 DAVE BAKER: I think what he's saying is I'm going to do  everything I can to bring my 400 pounds to bear. 

 Q.  Was there any hesitation from the news side on this deal? Did they have any awareness of it, express  any reservations? 
 JOHN SKIPPER: Really we did this deal through the  programming department because we believed as a programming group this would  make great television product for ESPN. Clearly  in working with the news and information, SportsCenter guys, they knew we were  working on this. Their only concern is  they're allowed to continue to do their job with their judgment and discretion  about what is news and information. They  know they will get to do that. They will  have no need to express any reservations and no one has expressed any, to  directly answer your question. 

 Q.  With the NBC contract, it basically had you move the schedule back to  late January, early February. How much  of this now is going to be directed to fit sandwiched with camp opening up with  the NFL and the end of the Super Bowl? 
 DAVE BAKER: We made up this schedule before we had the  deal signed with ESPN. We believed this  was the best season for Arena Football fans and Arena Football players. Again, we kind of represent off-season programming  for people who love football. It is not  100-yard football, but it's a different form of football that is exciting,  high-scoring, a lot of fun. 
 For us, it didn't make a whole lot  of sense to overlap traditional hundred-yard football games. 

 Q.  As far as the neutral site, you basically have been in Las Vegas.  Will ESPN bring any pressure to bear as far as trying to rotate the  different sites? We'd like to have it  back out here in Tampa Bay.  Will it be specifically Las Vegas, or will you try to go to different  cities? 
 DAVE BAKER: We had a three-year agreement with Las Vegas to develop the neutral site game  there. We really felt it was going to  take three years. What intervened in  that time was Hurricane Katrina in New Orleans.  We had give our team, the New Orleans Voodoo, which Tom Benson, who also  owns the Saints, and the staff there is the staff for the Saints and Voodoo, we  gave them the year off frankly because of the exigent circumstances there. 
 A week ago Monday we announced that  our board of directors had agreed to return and really be the first team league  championship coming back to New Orleans on July 29th this year. We expect that game to be a sell-out and  something good for the City of New Orleans, much like Monday Night Football  was when it came back to the Superdome a couple months ago. Hopefully we can do something good for that  city. 
 I can tell you that in all of our  discussions, John didn't say anything about taking the Arena Bowl, influencing  where that goes. He did talk a little  bit about how great a venue Bristol would be if at all possible  (laughter). 
 JOHN SKIPPER: Don't think we have the facilities. 
 DAVE BAKER: We'd have to play in the cafeteria. 
 Las Vegas agreed to let us go to New Orleans.  We'll probably go back to Las Vegas to fulfill the third year of our  contract because they've been very supportive of this. Then I think it will be on a rotating  basis. Tampa Bay is a great venue. We'd love to be back there. 

 Q.  In other words, you're going to revert back to the way you were, the  team with the best record is going to host? 
 DAVE BAKER: No.  I'm saying it will be a neutral site that will be up for bid and we'll  award it to cities much like the NFL does the Super Bowl. 

 Q.  John, is there any thought to doing any kind of extended games online,  streaming games, any other nights to get more games out there? 
 JOHN SKIPPER: We have contemplated that in the deal. We have some rights to do that. That would be something for David and I to  work out. We have not worked it  out. We could certainly do that and  would want to do it for the league if they felt that would be helpful in  continuing to grow the league. We could  stream them online, on our ESPN 360 service.  We don't have any announcement, any schedule. You heard David say in his opening remarks,  and I would echo it, that our intention is to use all of our platforms to try  to grow the league. 

 Q.  For the financially challenged, the unbusiness mind, is there no length  on the deal? Are you not announcing  it? I don't understand how that works. 
 DAVE BAKER: Let me just tell you, it's a five-year  deal. That is the longest. Our deal with NBC previously was two-year  deals, got renewed twice for one-year deals.  This gives us a platform to sell against, to grow. Our strategy isn't just to do the best we can  next year. It's a five-year strategy to  grow the Arena Football League. 
 At the end of that time, as John  mentioned earlier, hopefully we can revisit it and extend it, stay  married. If for any reason we go our  different ways, we get a different broadcast partner, they get a different  property, they will still retain their interest which they can hang on to or  they can sell just like any other equity owner. 

 Q.  How close financially is this deal to the ones you had with NBC? Obviously you're not going to say what it  is. Is it close in structure to what it  was? 
 DAVE BAKER: I think it's apples and oranges. This is certainly a much longer, much more  comprehensive transaction that leads to incentives for both sides. 
 JOHN SKIPPER: I would think the biggest difference, for NBC  which did a terrific job, they did a three-hour broadcast. They did some promotion. But we have an array of media assets that  allows us to make a different kind of compliment to promote and develop the  league. I think that really is the  difference. Some of these things take a  little time, which is the reason for the five years. Because I am highly confident we'll begin to  grow, grow pretty quickly, we wanted to be in for five years. Both David and I liked the five-year  term. So I think compared to what sort  of their deal is with ours, David is right, it's apples and oranges. Ours is about espn.com, magazine, ESPN,  ESPN-2, ESPN on ABC, ESPN Deportes. We  haven't talked about Spanish language.  We're committed across a number of platforms to grow this. I think that is a different kind of  commitment that NBC had. 

 Q.  John, I know FOX Sports Net had an Arena show weekly. Are you thinking about doing a similar thing? 
 JOHN SKIPPER: We have not announced. We'll sort of figure out what other  programming we might do. We haven't  announced that nor sort of figured it out.  You give us more credit than we deserve sometimes for having figured  everything out by the time we announce these things. 

 Q.  Commissioner, did the rules changes have anything to do with you  thinking about being with ESPN, especially the rules change about  substitution? You're trying to get the  scores down a bit, make it more for football fans to be interested. Did this have anything to do with that? 
 DAVE BAKER: Succinctly, no. Our Rules Competition Committee evaluates  things independently on its own. Had  nothing to do with television. 

 Q.  What will be the benefit for the players? You mentioned the CBA is close, players can  participate in NFL and other leagues during their off-seasons. What will be the direct benefit for players  of this new deal? 
 DAVE BAKER: I think exposure. All of our players get up and turn the TV  onto SportsCenter first. In talking to  players, they're very excited about this relationship. John said it earlier. I want to emphasize that we are extremely  thankful for the relationship we had with NBC.  Those were good guys, too, just like John. They loved Arena Football very much. 
 But when we were on NBC, it was  about NBC Sports broadcasting our games on NBC.  ESPN is where people go for sports, not just for our broadcasts but all  kinds of sports. I think that's going to  be good for our players. I think it's  going to be good for our fans. 

 Q.  John, how soon will changes come as far as when will people see more  stuff on espn.com? When will people say  more stuff on AFL.com? 
 JOHN SKIPPER: I think you will see us make some progress on  this between now and March 4th. March  4th is our first game. We have to  scramble to begin to do things. We will  concentrate most importantly on the game, that production. At the same time we'll begin to think about  how we're going to cover AFL on espn.com, other places. I would think you'd begin to see in the  latter part of February some preview material, promotion, marketing for the  upcoming season. 
 DAVE BAKER: Let me say on our end, I think this is going  to be a work in progress. This year is  going to be exciting. We think in a lot  of ways we think it will be better than last year. We think the next year is going to be better  than this year. What we want is good,  successive, incremental growth here.  That's what's exciting about this long-term partnership. 
 Thank you so much. Thank you, John. 
 JOHN SKIPPER: Thank you, David. Appreciate all the good questions from the  press. 
 DAVE BAKER: Thank you all for calling in. We appreciate it. We look forward to seeing you on our 21st  season starting March 3rd on ESPN. Take  care. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT