NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: BLACKHAWKS v DUCKS
May 26, 2015
Corey Perry
Jakob Silfverberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Corey, you were effective and efficient in closing out Winnipeg and Calgary.   Do you anticipate that Chicago will provide any type of different challenge or do you have the same kind of mindset going in?  
COREY PERRY:   We still have the same mindset.   You look at the closing games in the first two rounds, we played our game, especially against Winnipeg in the first round.   That was probably one of our most complete games that we played.   We got the job done.   
Last series against Calgary, came into overtime.   We got it done again.   
We know what it takes.   We know how hard it is to get that fourth win.   Chicago's not going to be any different.   They're going to throw their best at us.   We got to be prepared.   
They're a great team over there.   We're excited for that challenge.   
   
 Q.   Cam, the production from the blueline there, how much of a difference do you think it's given you and an advantage that it's given you guys throughout these playoffs?   
CAM FOWLER:   Yeah, I mean, I think it's been really good.   The main thing that we've had throughout the playoffs is we've had scoring from all four lines and we've also had people on the back end who can pitch in every once in a while.   
I think it puts more pressure on other teams defensively when they know there's not just going to be three forwards they have to worry about; they have to worry about the second wave coming in, which might be a fourth defenseman.   That changes things a little bit.   
We definitely have guys back there who like to join the rush.   Have been doing a great job of putting pucks on net, creating rebounds in front.   
As D men, you always like to pitch in when you get a chance.   I think especially come playoff time, you're going to need some people to step up and score some goals at big‑times.   We've certainly had that.   
Like I said, it's not just the D, it's all four lines, too.   When we have the chance to pitch in, it's certainly nice for us.   I think it's a big reason why we've been able to put some pucks in the net throughout the playoffs.   
   
 Q.   I don't know if you have seen any photos.   What do you think of Beleskey's Bobby Orr moment there?  
JAKOB SILFVERBERG:   I think we've all seen that picture.   Talking to him this morning, I think he said Bobby Orr had a little more grace to him than he did last night.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT