NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: BLACKHAWKS v DUCKS
May 16, 2015
Corey Perry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   What do you expect for tomorrow?   
COREY PERRY:   It's great to have a rest.   I think everybody's just ready to get going again.   
I know the crowd tomorrow afternoon is going to be excited.   We love playing here.   We love playing in front of our fans.   They do give us a boost.   
   
 Q.   What was it like playing against Ryan Kesler?   How much does he add to your team as a teammate?  
COREY PERRY:   There were a lot of battles.   Him and Burrows, Getzy and I on this side.   You know, there was battles each and every game we played.   
He's a player you want on your team.   To have him and to push forward with him, he's been great for us.   He's done everything we asked, everything we need him to do.   
   
 Q.   He's had a rivalry with Jonathan Toews.   Are you looking forward to that matchup?   How big do you think that matchup will be, given their history?  
COREY PERRY:   Yeah, they do have a lot of history.   But we're just looking forward to getting started.   There's going to be matchups.   We don't know who's playing against who, but it's going to be exciting to watch.   
There's a lot of firepower on both sides and it's going to be a lot of fun.   
   
 Q.   What about the Blackhawks as a whole?   Are they the benchmark the last four or five years, along with the Kings?  
COREY PERRY:   They're a great team.   They've had a lot of success.   
We're a great team as well.   We're not focused on what they're doing; we're focused on what we have to do to be prepared and to get the wins.   That's all that really matters.   
   
 Q.   For the organization, what does it mean to get back to the Western Conference Final?  
COREY PERRY:   It's huge.   It doesn't matter when it happens.   For us to get over that hump that we've been looking to get over, finally reach it, there's only four teams left and that's the exciting part.   
When you look back on it, it's going to be exciting.   
   
 Q.   Chicago and the Kings have sort of defined the Western Conference the last few years.   The Kings obviously didn't make it.   Did you figure to get to where you wanted to go, you were going to have to go through Chicago?  
COREY PERRY:   Yeah.   Like last year, we had to play L.A.   They ended up beating us.   You have to get through tough games.   The Stanley Cup is not an easy trophy to win.   You got to battle each and every night.   Doesn't matter who you're playing.   
The competition is getting stiffer and stronger each and every series.   That's the same here.   
   
 Q.   After these last couple days of practice, how are you feeling?   Are you back at 100%?   
COREY PERRY:   I feel great.   I feel fine on the ice.   Everything went well last couple days.   I got no injuries.   
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT