NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: SENATORS v DUCKS
June 2, 2007
Corey Perry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   COREY PERRY:  An advantage, and you could feel it, energy in the room before the game, crowds chanting go, Sens, go, and the first five minutes (indiscernible).   
  
  Q.  Is there a way you can correct that?   
 COREY PERRY:  I think once - the theme is, once we take a penalty, we're taking a couple, and if we learn to correct that right away in the next game and move on from that, I think we're going to be all right.   
  
  Q.  What do you guys have to do better Monday night to come out and play?   
 COREY PERRY:  We have to be on the forecheck.  We didn't hit.  We didn't forecheck that for 60 minutes.  We did it in spurts.  And when we did, we got some chances and scored a couple goals off it.  If we come out Monday and play our style of game, I think we'll be okay.   
  
  Q.  Did you let the emotions of the game get to you guys at all after that when it was 4-3?   
 COREY PERRY:  There were a couple times maybe, but it's a hockey game.  You gotta control your emotions.  You can't let the crowd be a factor.  You can't let the other team let it be a factor.  Go out and play your style of game.   
  
  Q.  Composure kind of fell apart a little bit?   
 COREY PERRY:  I don't know if - maybe it fell apart a little bit, but we've got to control that.  We have to do a better job.  We talked about it after the game; we have to do a better job.   
  
  Q.  Did you get a good view at all on the Alfredsson call?   
 COREY PERRY:  Not really, no.  I was on the bench.  Whatever way it went, they made the call, and they called it a goal.   
  
  Q.  Did you get the sense of kind of momentum shifted towards the Senators at that point?   
 COREY PERRY:  Yeah, more or less.  They took the play to us in the second half of the second period, and we can't let it happen.  And we have to get in forecheck like we did the first half.  And we scored a few goals, couple of quick goals and played hockey.  We have to be ready to do that.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT