INTERNATIONAL CROWN
July 27, 2014
Belen Mozo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   This scene right here, just tell me how high the emotions are for you guys, just so, so happy.   
BELEN MOZO:   Well, it's our team, it's so special.   You put another four girls and maybe not so much.   But we have always played together.   We have always won together.   I think that coming in, we knew we had that advantage over the other teams.   
Even though we were maybe the underdogs because of the seedings and the way we came into this tournament, not seeded very well, I knew deep inside that what you need in team championships is what we have, not the rest.   
I knew that top players, they don't have camaraderie.   They will end up killing each other in match play and that's not the way to play.   I'm just happy we pulled through.   I'm ready to celebrate with my teammates, my family, and everyone together.   So I'm just really happy.  
   
 Q.   Right from the get‑go, even at the gala, you guys were overly confident, I mean just beyond confident.   
BELEN MOZO:   I don't think we were confident.   We just like to trash talk.   It's how we are.   We accept trash talk back.   It's not like we get pissed off if they say comments like that, we like it, we embrace it, and that's how competitive we are and that's what we want.   
   
 Q.   I think everybody knew you guys would be contenders here this week.   With the fiery spirit and everything, you guys embraced what this event was so much.   How did this whole week play out for you guys just in terms of the event overall?  
BELEN MOZO:   I think that we don't have a lot of people, like compared to other teams, maybe, but what we have, it's enough.   We don't really need more.   It's not the quantity, it's the quality, so I think that we're just thrilled.   We're thrilled.  
   
 Q.   People say you were pretty much the breakthrough player.   You had a hand in five points for the team.   Talk about having such a big role in you guys winning, not even just being here, being on the team, but having a huge role.   
BELEN MOZO:   Myself?   Well, I don't believe in being a superstar once you play in a team championship.   I think we all are huge roles for each other and without Bea, without Azahara, without Carlota, maybe I wouldn't have clinched so many points for the team.   So I don't think it's fair to say that.   We all are superstars and we all did our roles and we are all No. 1.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT