INTERNATIONAL CROWN
July 24, 2014
Belen Mozo
Beatriz Recari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   It's fitting that it ended in a tie.   It was a great match.   
BELEN MOZO:   Yeah, I think that it was a very tight match.   I mean, the girls played really good.   Especially Mo, she was very steady, she made really good putts and very clutch putts when she needed to.   
And we were playing very good tee to green and we missed a lot of opportunities.   I was about to get desperate, but I had moral support a lot and she kept me going, because there's nothing that bums me out than to not take advantage of the opportunities.   
But we just hung in there and played very good golf coming up and we're happy with the halve.  
   
 Q.   Did you think that eagle was going in?  
BEATRIZ RECARI:   I totally thought so.   I had the perfect pace and I saw the drop, and I kind of was taking the break how I read it, but it just lipped out.   But from that distance, tap in for birdie, I would take it.   
BELEN MOZO:   You think that's probably the shot of the day?   
BEATRIZ RECARI:   No, no.   
BELEN MOZO:   Because it was a tough putt.   It was a really tough putt.  
   
 Q.   It looked good the whole way.   
BEATRIZ RECARI:   I'm just going to rephrase what Belen said, you know, I think we felt really comfortable out there, probably you could look back and say we could have, we deserved better on this hole and this other hole, because we played so good and we left some chances out there.   
So I just think that we take a lot of positives from today and a lot of confidence towards the next few days and the putts can only drop from now.   So we're really excited and, yeah, just feel really good about our games today.  
   
 Q.   How did you feel when that putt went in on 17?  
BELEN MOZO:   For some reason I was really comfortable.   Because I always think that there's moments in everything, and I felt like that was my moment.   I had a good spot and I just trusted my line and I felt comfortable all the way in.   I cannot explain why.   It just happens that you sometimes feel comfortable, sometimes you don't.   
I just knew that we were playing so good, we had to fight through.   I thought we were going to win, I thought we were going to win 17 and 18, I don't know why.   So, but I'm still happy with how we finished.   
   
 Q.   The first tee it looked like you got a little emotional during the National Anthem.   
BELEN MOZO:   I did.  
   
 Q.   What was that like for you?   
BELEN MOZO:   Well, like Belen said in the press conference‑‑ what did you say?   
BEATRIZ RECARI:   Our blood boils when we hear it.  
BELEN MOZO:   When we hear the National Anthem, I haven't heard in a long time, man, and that was, I was teary.   I was a little bit emotional.   You can see in the tee box, I didn't hit a good shot, my emotions were still like flooring, you know.   So but it's okay.   I will learn for tomorrow.   Hopefully no more anthems.  
   
 Q.   Are you going to change your strategy do you think going into tomorrow?   
BEATRIZ RECARI:   We played really well, I mean the four of us were playing really well, so we'll see.   We have to have a good lunch now and enjoy today because I think we played really well and we deserve a good lunch now and a good rest and we'll talk this afternoon.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT