KIA CLASSIC
March 22, 2012
Belen Mozo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Congratulations on a great round, 70 today.   Can you take me through the day and what was working well for you out there?   
BELEN MOZO:   Yeah, it was very early when we teed off.   It was hard to play so early because it was cold and the sun was just sitting up.   So you couldn't really see the ball.   The first hole was really tough.   I almost doubled it.   I made a really long putt for bogey.   
I was scrambling my first six holes.   I didn't get a fairway.   I didn't get a green.   But I was making it up and down from everywhere, and I think that's really important here.   As soon as you make a few up‑and‑downs on this course, you kind of get your confidence up.   
I started getting my 3‑wood on the fairway, and that was it.   I started making birdies.   I played really good just to finish with a bogey.   It's a really tough hole.   Tried to lay up from the rough, and my ball spun too much on my third shot.   It's overall a really good round, so I'm really happy.  
   
 Q.   I know you're originally from Spain, but you spent a lot of time here in California and going to USC.   Does it feel like home when you come back to this area?   
BELEN MOZO:   It feels like home, yeah.   I mean, this coast I have really good memories from USC, really good ones.   I don't know, it's just the area.   The people here are really happy all the time, good weather.   It's beautiful in San Diego.   I love it.   I love playing on the west coast.  
   
 Q.   This is your second year on the LPGA Tour.   You have a few events under your belt this season.   How are you feeling about your game and how things are going so far?   
BELEN MOZO:   I think I've improved a lot, not only mentally, but gamewise.   Finally I have a team with me consisting of a trainer and a coach.   And I have my brother caddying for me, which is a huge change.   
I like it, because I still have a lot to learn from all the big players out there.   But little by little, I see progress, and that's very important, and it motivates me to keep fighting.   So it's really good.  
   
 Q.   Just get some initial thoughts on getting to play La Costa this week.   Everybody that knows golf knows La Costa from all the events that have been played here and what the course has been like so far?  
BELEN MOZO:   I think the course is in great shape.   I feel like they lowered the rough a little bit from the previous days.   That's my guess.   If not, the course plays really tough with the rough, the greens are very small.   I mean, they're responding really well.   They're not that hard and firm, so that's good.   
I see it as if I get the green, I'm going to get an advantage for birdie because the greens are so small.   It's a very accurate course, so whoever has the best short game is going to win here.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT