MOUNTAIN WEST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 9, 2011
Raimee Beck
Megan Muniz
Andrea Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 THE MODERATOR: We're joined by Air Force. Coach, we'll start with your general comments on tonight's game. 
 COACH WILLIAMS: Disappointed in the outcome with us coming on the short end. But very proud of my Falcons, the way we fought back even when we were down more than we wanted to be. As it shows, we were ready to put our press back on, try to get some stops, some turnovers, hit the three ball, make it interesting trying to cut it to 10. 
 They never quit. They just kept playing. They kept believing. We're going to find a way to score. 
 Just coming up on the short end. That's a good quality team in Utah. But very proud of my Falcons. 
 THE MODERATOR: At this time we'll open it up to questions for the student-athletes. 

 Q. Raimee, talk about that scoring slump you had. You were tied at halftime, a long time without scoring after that. Did they do anything differently in the second half? 
 RAIMEE BECK: It was frustrating. We weren't getting any stops. When we're not getting stops and not scoring, that's what happens. 
 Just things were not going our way. They were buckling down on defense. It was rough there for a few minutes. That's what really hurt us throughout the game. 
 Everybody left it out on the court. I'm thankful for that, for my team for doing that. 

 Q. Another thing that was a theme in the second half was their size took over. How tough is that for you as a team? 
 RAIMEE BECK: We've always been undersized. We're used to that. We just got to push back harder. Boxing out, pushing back. You know, we were starting to get a little tired at the end of the game. Their size is overtaking us a little. 
 We never stopped fighting. That's what our mentality was all year, so... 

 Q. In general, what was your experience like, your last go-around? Sum up what the last couple days have meant for you. 
 RAIMEE BECK: It was a great experience. You know, the team and the coaches, just getting that first win was a great way to end my year, my career. So I'm thankful for that, for how much my team went out there and left it all on the court. 

 Q. Megan, in the second half, you come out tied, how disappointing was it to come out and not hit many shots? 
 MEGAN MUÑIZ: Yeah, it was rough to go through that drought. We didn't really notice it. Just those rebounds really killed us. We couldn't score. It was hard to come back after getting going after like 10 minutes, but we tried. 

 Q. You're going to miss Raimee a lot, but you have just about everybody coming back. How excited are you for the future?
 MEGAN MUÑIZ: We're excited. We have one senior, obviously, and one junior. We're pretty young. We have a lot of kids coming in. We're excited to get working. We're excited for the future. 

 Q. Did the younger players think you were peaking at the end of the year? How much did that help going into next year? 
 MEGAN MUÑIZ: Yeah, we got a lot of confidence throughout the year with all the time we got. We came together as a team. We kind of started peaking at the end, I'd say, yeah. 
 THE MODERATOR: At this time we'll dismiss our student-athletes and continue with questions for Coach Williams. 

 Q. Is there anything you can really do when they offensive rebound so well? 
 COACH WILLIAMS: You keep telling them to dig in, dig in and push back. Maybe you get a call here or there. 
 Again, we've been undersized all year. It just kind of broke the straw on the back when we weren't scoring, then the easy putbacks for them when you are 6'2", 6'3". 
 Again, trying to do some things, but we're not scoring, it's going to be a little bit more difficult. For being that big, my team never quit. That's a good sign to see. 
 But, again, we need to get a little more physical in back-to-back games. Might take its toll a little bit. We had everything we had, our hands full with Colorado State yesterday. 
 I think just got to dig in and work on boxing out a little bit more. 

 Q. I know how excited you are about the future. You do need size. Is that on the way? 
 COACH WILLIAMS: We got a recruiting coordinator, a lot of people interested in serving their country, so it makes for a great combination. We're out there looking all across the country. 
 But quality ball players. We know our style of play doesn't have to be just big in our league to do some things well. We're finding some good-quality athletes.

 Q. As a coach, did you notice any difference between the first and second half? 
 COACH WILLIAMS: Just missing shots. You're going to go to your go-to players, Alicia. After the first game, she might be a little bit tired. Dymond, they're going to do everything they can to frustrate her, take her out of her one on one. We need Kelsey to step up, Raimee to step up with some threes and relieve that pressure. 
 You have to ride that horse. You have to keep going back to Alicia. We sat her for a little bit to get her wind back, put her back out on the floor to do some things in driving. 
 But when we go in a drought, it can be ugly. We've been in droughts before. But then as you see, the spurtability we had at the end, bring up the press. We only have six, seven minutes, try to take them over, take them out of their game plan, cut it to ten, then just keep believing, anything can happen. 
 Again, the Falcons don't quit. I think that's what you want from your service academy is some Fighting Falcons for the future. 
 The scoring drought, we have to find some other people to step up. Again, we're young. We'll work on that. 

 Q. How much is the experience of getting a win here help you going into next year? 
 COACH WILLIAMS: We were going for double-digit wins. That's one of the Raimee's mini goals. I'd like to win double-digits, coach. The future is bright. We won't have the deer in the headlights. You have sophomores that can mentor the freshmen and know what it's like with their academic load and what they're doing. Yes, we do EIs, study hard on the road when we're trying to win in the Mountain West tournament. 
 Our junior will be a senior, and our sophomore class will step up and be juniors. We're excited about the addition of the new team coming in and we're excited about the team leaving. So the future looks great for us. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much, coach. 
 COACH WILLIAMS: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT