BIG TEN CONFERENCE BASKETBALL MEDIA DAYS
October 13, 2016
Patrick Chambers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PATRICK CHAMBERS: Really good group of guys that the staff and I have assembled.  Three starters -- Shep, Payton, Josh Reaves.  Then we're adding Mike Watkins, who sat out last year, and transfer from UConn, Terrence Samuel, which is really going to help us out with the athleticism, the speed, some skill, joining this very talented freshman group in Lamar and Tony and Nazeer, Penn State is in a different place today.  We're going to get up and down, which we haven't done in the last five years.  We're going to play an up-tempo style of play.  Last year we averaged 65 points.  Brandon Taylor did a great job.  Those seniors did a great job of building and getting that bye for us in the Big Ten tournament.  So this is going to be very different for Penn Staters and the Big Ten.  The non-conference that we put together is going to be challenging, extremely challenging.  But I want this team, I want this group tested to prepare us for the Big Ten and how difficult it is.  We also get to play Michigan State at the Palestra, which I think is going to be a fantastic game.  I'm looking forward to playing right here in D.C. for the Big Ten tournament.   
 Q.  Last year everybody was talking about the new rule changes, and reflecting on the full season and postseason, how you felt the game looked, felt, and just the effect of those rules?  
PATRICK CHAMBERS: I'm a little old school.  So I like a little bit of physicality and toughness, but I understand there is more freedom of movement.  Obviously, scoring was up, so I think it benefited a lot of the leagues throughout the country.  And it did for us too.  We went 5-3 in our last eight games and scored more points.  We hit a lot more threes.  The only thing I wish we had back was that one timeout.  I missed that timeout desperately when we have a young, youthful group that's learning how to win on the road.   
 Q.  What specifically can you expect out of Mike Watkins and what would really please you as a freshman?  He's just a kid, and you're talking about physicality and toughness, what do you want most out of him where you think could be successful if he gives it to you?  
PATRICK CHAMBERS: I would love to see him get 20 minutes a game, which is going to be difficult because he's still raw.  We're working on his habits of positioning, especially in the post.  I watch the NCAA video last week where they're trying to limit that physicality.  Limit some certain things in defending the post.  So we've really got to work with Mike there.  But what he can bring to us, if he stays out of foul trouble, is incredible athleticism, speed.  He's got great IQ for the game.  He's an exceptional passer.  He catches everything, he finishes everything.  He's going to protect the rim.  It's a big that the Big Ten hasn't really seen in a long time with the complement of talents that he has and how he's going to help this team.   
 Q.  I was wondering what you noticed in the freshmen off the court that you think will help them on the court this season, if there's any specific qualities that they have?  
PATRICK CHAMBERS: Yeah, the freshmen are very mature for their age.  They have a great approach to class and to study hall and tutors and what we need to do off the floor.  And they're bringing that same approach to the basketball court.  Again, they're freshmen, the jump from high school to the Big Ten, as far as practice is concerned, is a mighty jump.  It's a leap.  So consistency is probably number one on the list of bringing it every day, every drill for two hours.  They're doing a really good job, but they still need to continue to work on that.  But I've been super impressed with how they're handling their business.   
 Q.  I think you probably expect Shep Garner to be a good three-point shooter.  Do you have another one who can fill that role?  
PATRICK CHAMBERS: Yeah, let me talk about Shep.  Shep is shooting the ball really well.  And as you know, the last eight games he's making close to four threes a game.  So he's going to need help.  Payton Banks the last six games shot 50%.  Maybe not a ton of attempts, but he shot 50% the last four to six games of the season.  So I think with Shep and Payton shooting the ball so well, I'd like to see Deividas, I'd like to see Isaiah, and I think you're going to see a different Josh Reaves.  He's going to see the ball go through the basket.  He's seeing the ball go through the basket right now.   
So with five or six guys, three or four elite shooters and a couple guys that are capable, that's going to open up some driving lanes for guys like Tony Carr and Terrence to be able to make plays.  I'd like to see our assists up between 15 and 20 assists per game.   
 Q.  Curious, how important was the 2016 class, especially with a couple nationally ranked guys in Carr and Stevens, for you guys to lay a foundation to take steps up the Big Ten?  
PATRICK CHAMBERS: It was extremely important.  I think it starts show with Shep Garner, then it trickles to Josh Reaves and Mike Watkins.  I'm not sure if you don't land those guys that you don't get Tony Carr or Lamar Stevens or Nazeer Bostick.  But if you do that and develop guys early, you're able to score some Top 100 players that can really affect the program or make a major impact with this program and keep what Tim Frazier and D.J. and Brandon Taylor, keep the consistency going of what they built.   
I know we're not happy with 50 and 50 over the last three years, but that shows progress.  And those guys, Lamar and Tony, believing in the vision that we have for this program is really going to set us up for the next couple of years, because we don't have a senior on the team.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT