BIG TEN CONFERENCE MEN'S MEDIA DAY
October 31, 2013
Patrick Chambers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  THE MODERATOR:   Joining us is Coach Patrick Chambers. 
COACH CHAMBERS:   What I would say is new beginnings for us, looking forward to new beginnings.   Obviously the last two years we've been working hard.   Our record doesn't indicate how hard these kids have worked.   We look forward to a fresh start, and we look forward to this up coming season.   Hopefully it's a healthy one and we keep all of our guys on the floor and being able to compete. 
THE MODERATOR:   Questions.

Q.   With B.J.'s development from last year, with Tim coming back this year, how do you see them splitting it up in the back court and how do you see Tim getting back to where he was a couple of years ago?
COACH CHAMBERS:   Obviously it's exciting to have that dynamic duo to put a Penn State jersey on this year.   I think D.J. learned so much about the point guard position in general.   And now you have two guys that can make plays for teammates. 
You can't just focus on one or the other.   You've got to focus on both those guys.   There's gotta be a lot of space on the floor for other guys to step up and make plays.   D.J. has a great appreciation for the point guard position and what Tim does.   And D.J., by the end of the year, I felt like was a very capable point guard.   I think he did some great things.
With Tim coming back healthy, what we've done, we did a foreign tour.   We've had those guys play together since the first practice in August because they've got to learn how to play together.   And I think they don't mind if one's a leading scorer and‑‑ they just want to win basketball games.   They're at that stage.   They're mature.   They're a little bit older.   D.J.'s a redshirt junior, so technically he's a senior in his mentality and approach. 
So I think you're going to see an older veteran back court that kind of has been through a lot.   One's a transfer; one went through a major injury.   Tim looks very good.   100percent healthy.   Played really well in August.   He's playing well right now.   I'd say a little bit rusty and that's understandable. 
But moving forward, that should be a back court that a lot of teams should fear.

Q.   What are your expectations for your freshmen this year on the team?
COACH CHAMBERS:   Compete every day in practice.   We're going to need them.   I haven't had much depth over the last two years, and I feel like this year we have some depth. 
But they're freshmen.   They're not top five freshmen recruiting class.   They're freshmen.   They've got to come every day with the right approach, the right mentality, to get better, to earn minutes on the floor and to push our veterans. 
And they've done that.   They've pushed Tim, D.J., Ross, every single day, and that's what those guys want.   We have healthy competition in practice.   And it's exciting to see. 
So if they can give us anywhere from 10 to 15 minutes early on and gradually improve on that, as we start the Big Ten in January, that would make us definitely nine or ten deep. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, Coach. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT