BIG TEN CONFERENCE MEN'S MEDIA DAYS
October 25, 2012
Patrick Chambers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  THE MODERATOR:   Up next is Patrick Chambers.   He enters his second season with the Nittany Lions and includes nine winners, including, Tim Frazier.   Coach if you would like to begin with an opening statement.
PATRICK CHAMBERS:   I'm excited for the second season.   First season is always a great challenge when you come into a new situation, but I'm proud of the way those guys competed last year and I look forward to this season ahead with Tim being a senior and more experienced and getting some of the younger guys, some good experience and knowledge going through the Big 10 for the first time, so I'm looking forward to a great season. 

Q.   Tim Frazier did a lot for your team last year, what more can he do this season or what would you like to see him do better this season? 
PATRICK CHAMBERS:   The most important thing for Tim is to be a great leader.   I think we all know he needs to work on his jump shot and he's done that.   In practice so far he's shooting his three's at a high clip, which is great for us, almost makes him unguardable, but it's off the floor, in that locker room, being the hardest worker on the team. 
It's not getting caught up in the headlines or the blogs or Tweets or whatever you want to say.   To remain humble and hungry and grounded, and trying to win as many games as we can.   That's got to be his focus, can't be anything else. 

Q.   Coach, what did you learn as your first year in the Big 10 and what did you plan to take into the second year? 
PATRICK CHAMBERS:   This league is awesome, incredible league, great coaches, adjustments on every time‑out, halftime, great players, great talent. 
One thing that really stuck out was the home court advantage that most of the teams get in the Big 10.   Everywhere we went was sold out, didn't matter if we were 2‑12 or 4‑14, which is where we ended up. 
They were coming out and the enthusiasm for their teams is pretty amazing.   To win on the road in the Big 10 is huge.   We didn't do it last year.   We're going to have to do this year, it's that difficult.   We're going to have to do it this year.   Coming from the Big East, you could find empty games and find a way, but here, it's difficult. 

Q.   What advice would you give to Tim Miles as he goes into the Big 10 for his first season? 
PATRICK CHAMBERS:   Tim is a great guy, great coach, excellent tweeter, he loves to tweet.   I would tell him he's going to have to be patient because nobody turns the ball over in this league, that's one thing I probably should have said as well, so you have to defend, you have to rebound and you've got to recruit winners, and I know Tim is going to do that, I've seen the guys he's got coming in. 
But as far as his team, his players, he needs to be patient, go through it one time‑‑ he's a great coach but know it's difficult on the road here. 

Q.   Obviously the controversy that developed on campus within the last year was disconnected from your program, but how much impact has it had on your efforts to try to rebuild the Nittany Lions in basketball? 
PATRICK CHAMBERS:   Obviously it's been a great challenge for us offensively, because your hearts go out to the families and what's going on, you know, it's on TV all the time, in the newspapers all the time and dwindled a little bit because of Bill O'Brien and his football team doing amazing things on the field, which is great. 
But it's there, and there is no denying it, and I try to stay out in front of it, especially when it comes to recruiting, I talk to the parents about it and the kids about and, I don't want it to be the elephant in the room, I would rather get it out in front of us and let's discuss it and if there are issues, might not be the right place for you, and if they're okay with it.   Then you are going to get amazing kids that are serious about getting degrees, that are winners and that want to help build this program. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, Coach.   







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT