SENIOR TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
October 27, 2001
George Archer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
GEORGE ARCHER: Whoa, Happy Christmas.   As you know I was 4 back starting out.  Got off to a nice start.  I had seven birdies through 11 holes and was really starting to think, hey, I might shoots like Lietzke did; what the heck, let's see what happens.  I got back on my game.  Started making bogeys.  I did hang on.  I made some good pars there. Actually made some good bogeys because some of those par 3s downwind are playing very difficult.  (Inaudible).  Overall I have to be very happy.  Played very well the first 11 holes and then didn't hit any real bad shots.  Didn't hit any real good shots, but it played a lot harder, the back nine, no doubt about that.  I think a lot of players are making bogeys out there.  It's very nice to win.  I haven't won a Super Senior all year.  I was coming in here, I said maybe I could win the last one; that's better than winning a couple of them.  It would be like winning three or four.   Guys that are 60 are very grateful to have Super Seniors.  It's something else to keep us going and something to aim at and try to play well.  It's a lot of fun.  
 
GEORGE ARCHER:  No. 2 I hit a wedge about four feet, I made that for a birdie.  Then No. 3, I think I birdied that, hit a wedge in there about six feet, made that.  Then I parred -- I birdied -- 5 would be the par 4, and I hit a drive and a little 8-iron about the middle of the green.  By that time I thought the greens would start bouncing like yesterday, but it stopped; only moved about three feet.  I made a long putt there of about 30 feet.  Next hole I hit real big drive for me, I hit it past the trap (inaudible) the drive had to be 300 yards with the wind and everything.  Hit 3-iron just over the back edge (inaudible) birdie.  Then I parred 7.  (Inaudible).  On 8 I birdied.  Good drive and wedge there and made birdie. Parred 9.   Then on 10 it was into the wind.  I hit a bad drive in the rough but I got fortunate, I was where the people walked.  I could hit it with a wood and I knocked it up in the bunker in front of the green; then I holed that bunker shot.  Next hole I hit   -- 
 
Q.  How far was that?
 
GEORGE ARCHER: I'd say it was at least, oh, 25 yards.  I hit that long bunker shot and holed that one.  Birdied next hole.  Good drive and wedge made about a 18-foot putt there.  Then I got back playing my normal game, bogey, bogey, par, par, bogey.  A couple of the pars were pretty good.  Par 5 I hit driver 3-iron right in front of the green.  I hit a running chip, ran all the way across the green and I mean, I 2-putted from 90 feet way over the back of the green to save par there.  And it became very difficult out there, really was, I think you will see fellows playing (inaudible)  the finishing holes are very difficult.  But I am very happy to win.  It's nice to win the last one.  That's the big one.  
 
Q.  Where did you hole that bunker shot?
 
GEORGE ARCHER: No. 10.  
 
Q.  Have you won here before, some event?
 
GEORGE ARCHER: Yes, I won the Team Championship sheer in  Oklahoma City with Bobby Nichols in 1968.  
 
Q.  Talk about that a little bit what you remember of that?
 
GEORGE ARCHER: It was a lot of fun.  We played with Palmer and Nicklaus the first two rounds and then I think we played the last round with Dale Douglass and Taylor (inaudible) it was funny that year, I (inaudible) I was playing very well back in those years.  I said I need a guy that can make birdies.  That was the peak of my game, '67.  So I kept saying to Bobby, I said, we can win this thing let's play together.  He said, oh, I don't know, I may have to play with my friend Gay.  I said the hell with him.  You can't win it with Gay; you can win it with me.  I had to twist his arm and finally he said well, okay, we went and won the darn thing.  (Inaudible) Normally you don't work that hard but I knew Bobby was putting real good at that time and we were an awesome team. We really teamed well.  It was three rounds at Quail Creek and one round at another golf tournament. 
 
Q.  Twin Hills?
 
GEORGE ARCHER: I don't remember the name of the other golf course.  But I know I came back later in the '80s and did something for a fund-raiser to help kids or something.  I was playing this golf course and I remember  -- a member walked up he said:  Do you remember winning the tournament here. I looked at him I said:  I never played this course before in my life. He said you won the tournament here in '68.  I said:  No, we won over there at the other course.  He said come with me. We go in the clubhouse there was a plaque up there.  He says you played one round here and three at the other place.  I says, geez, I completely forgot that.  Of course we won in '68.  This was in the early  '80s (inaudible) you are allowed to forget a few things.  But good memories near Oklahoma, this would be something that quite a span between my victories here, between 1968 and 2001. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT