INGERSOLL-RAND SENIOR TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 4, 1999
George Archer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








GEORGE ARCHER: I've been driving real good. I got a new driver about three weeks ago,
and I've really been -- I don't know today if because it was cold or whatever, I started
out the first, didn't drive very well. Hit some bad drives. Almost the first six holes,
didn't hit any good drives at all. And finally like on 7, my caddie tried to hand me a
3-wood and said -- I'm not going to start backing off, and made a beautiful drive on 7 and
got a birdie. And then hit a real good drive on 8, knocked it right on the front of the
green in two and got a par. And birdied 9. And just kind of turned things around a little
bit, from not hitting it good to start driving good. And I hit some real good drives on
the back nine. And then the last one I guess I tried to hit too hard. That 18th was
playing so long the last few days in the Pro-Ams and things. I pushed it out to the right
and hit a 4-wood in the bunker and made a bogey. 11, I knocked it about a foot and I
birdied 16 and 17. So I had two bogeys and six birdies and it was a good day. Hit some
nice irons. I had the ball around the hole all through that middle stretch there very
nicely. You know, I had good birdie putts every hole almost. 

Q. Does driving determine how well --?

GEORGE ARCHER: For me it does. If I can drive well that, means I'm swinging well. When
I'm -- very seldom I'll drive bad and then hit a lot of good irons and things like that
because I'm not swinging right. I think the cold weather -- I've been playing where,
Sacramento was warm, Hawaii was warm, L.A. was warm. So I've been in warm weather for
three weeks, and I think today this little cold air -- of course, yesterday I was taking a
4-wood from 170 yards and just chipped it -- it was so cold yesterday. But I did play well
in the middle of the round. And just hit one bad drive on the last hole, but hit a lot of
good drives in the middle of the round and things; so I was pleased. I hope tomorrow I can
get off to a good start and start hitting good drives early. It's really fun. Golf has
really become fun for me. I have picked up about 20 yards on my driver. I'm using a much
longer shaft, and I've got a big old club now. I feel like the first time in my life, I've
got a club that fits me. I keep saying: Don't try to hit the ball, just swing the club.
And I got the old habits of trying to hit the ball. But with this big old club, I'm just
swinging. And boy, it launches them. It's a lot of fun.

Q. What brand is it?

GEORGE ARCHER: It's called a Cubic Balance. Calvin Pete's been with the company for a
long time. They told me the company is 21 years old. They have made a club that ten years
ago was unheard of. It's 48 inches long; it's 10 and a half ounces total weight; and the
swing weight is D-2. So those numbers, ten years ago, was -- if you went back to a guy and
said, "I want a club like those," they would look at you and say we can't do it.
But with the new shafts and the light heads they can make now, this head is so big, I'm
not scared that I can't hit the ball. When I tried Rocky's deal a long time ago, I could
hit that club far, but I was afraid I was going to roll the ball on the ground because the
head was so small. With a 49-inch shaft; it makes the head look really small. But this
head is so big now, I don't ever think I'm going to miss the ball. It looks like a
watermelon down there. That's why I'm able to use that 48-inch shaft. And with a longer
shaft, you will hit the ball further. 

Q. But you can also hit it farther into the weeds, the rough?

GEORGE ARCHER: That's true, but so what? If you're hitting them in the weeds, you're
going to shoot bad. Instead of shooting an 80 you shoot an 85. But if you're playing good
-- and I've really driven the ball well. Floyd was -- I played with him in Sacramento. I
was in the driving range when he was trying one. When He showed up in L.A., I've got to
get one of those things Archer has. He said, look at Archer, he's gained 20 yards. And I
can fly this thing 250. It's nice. That way I hit a nice drive on No. 2, it was in the
sand trap, but I saw the measurement; it carried 250 yards. On the last measuring hole, I
hit it 311 yards. So I'm getting a kick out of this. It's fun. 

Q. How much have you lost here as far as coming to the cooler weather?

GEORGE ARCHER: You do lose quite a bit. Like this morning, like on No. 2 I hit a nice
drive it was straight it didn't go very far and I had 170 yards to the hole and I hit a
5-iron it only went about a 170 yards because it was still pretty cold. The next hole I
knicked it and I hit a 4-iron into that hole. But early in the morning, the ball doesn't
go. As soon as the temperature starts to warm up, then the ball starts going better. The
temperature means a lot of distance in a golf ball. I live up in Lake Tahoe. If I go out
and play in the mornings 8:00 when the temperature is let's say 60, I don't hit the ball
very far. But by 2:00 in the afternoon with the high air and the temperature gets up to
80, I can hit a 5-iron 200 yards up there. So it does make a difference. Temperature and
altitude are the two things that really affect the flight of the ball. 

GEORGE ARCHER: 4th hole, what's the 4th hole? Okay, yeah. I hit a bad drive in the
right rough, and I hit a 4-iron down short of the water and I hit a wedge about four feet
and I made a birdie there. Then I bogeyed 6. I hit it into the tree and had to chip out
sideways, missed the green, chipped up and made about a 5-footer for a bogey and came
right back on the 9th and parred 8 --.

GEORGE ARCHER: About 15 feet maybe. 13 to 15 feet and then on No. 9, I hit a 4-iron and
it bounced off the hill there about 12 feet from the hole and I made that for a birdie.
And then I parred 10 and 11. I knocked it about a foot from the hole with an 8-iron and
got a birdie. Then I went right along parring until 16. I hit a real good 7-iron in there
about five feet, four feet and made that for a birdie. And then 18 (sic) I took too much
club and went over the green and chipped it in. Then on 18, I bogeyed I hit it in the sand
trap and knocked it out about six feet and missed the putt. But (-under) is not bad score
now because the guys were all dropping it in front of the lake so they will be happy with
five, won't they. 

Q. Did they play that hole shorter today?

GEORGE ARCHER: No they moved the tee up a little bit one thing but the fairway is so
wet. We got to lift, clean and place on two holes today, 10 and 13, but we really should
have got to do it on 18. It has some serious footprint, and that fairway is really mushy
where the guys are hitting the ball, too. A guy can get lucky there and hit a bad lie --
try to knock it over the water, but that would be really -- not right, but we'll see. 

Q. How long did it take you to feel comfortable with the hip replacement and all?

GEORGE ARCHER: A long time. I still don't play sand shots anywhere near as good as I
used. One time I was a really good bunker player, and with this leg being a quarter inch
longer I still just don't hit sand shots the way I once could. Maybe I need to get a
longer sand wedge. 

Q. Mentally, though?

GEORGE ARCHER: Funny thing. I lost my heel on a pair of shoes. I had brown shoes on and
going to the 16th tee. I went to step over the rope and it caught my heel and tore the
heel right off my shoe. That hole I played, the 15th hole, I played that par 5 with no
heal on my shoe. That's a funny sensation, especially since this one has an extra bit of a
longer heel to offset for my longer leg; so I was really hopping on that hole, but I got a
par. Had to bring my other pair of shoes. 

Q. Did you play standard length shafts in your clubs?

GEORGE ARCHER: No. I used the four -- standard was 38 inches in a 2-iron; I used a 40.
So my irons are longer but I think this winter I'm going to experiment with graphite
shafts and try to make them longer because the way I'm hitting this driver I've already
tried to make up a 3-wood that's longer. I want to make all my clubs longer because these
new shafts, really you can do that. I think I really need to do that. I know Terry Dill,
Rocky Thompson, these guys have all gone to really longer clubs, and they say it's so much
easier to hit the ball. A lot of people are telling me, when I stand up over this 48-inch
driver, I look like a normal person now. I don't like I'm bent way over to hit the ball
the way I used to. And I'm getting very comfortable with this club. And, you know if I
just quit trying to hit the ball and just trust swinging I can get some beautiful shots
with it. 

Q. One of the things I've heard people say is that if we have had modern equipment when
you were in your peak on the PGA TOUR, that you would have been even a better player than
you were. Do you think that's possible?

GEORGE ARCHER: I really feel that I've never played with the proper equipment. I go to
the Masters dinner and you've got from Gene Sarazen, how many guys -- 30 guys, 27 guys,
and it's unbelievable how many of these guys are 5-foot 10. And now you say to yourself,
why in golf does a 5-foot 10 guy have such an advantage? It's the shafts. The shafts are
designed for a 5-foot 10. And what do you do? Say well we can make them longer, but they
don't really. They have never gone in and did the research and development to, or because
there's very few six-foot five guys playing golf. So the shaft companies don't want to
spend that money to develop a shaft for such a small market. So they just doctor them.
They take the shaft that's designed for a 5-foot 10 guy and they extend it, and say, here,
try this see if you like it. Because if you ever lose a graphite shaft that you like, you
can't ever replace it. You can't find the same shot. Each graphite shaft is hand made and
it's got it's own little personality, and you get to like it. But, when they first came
out, I know one of the companies was saying we now we can match anything. I said, fine I
had those (inaudible) heads. I want a backup driver just like it. And they couldn't come
close. It was just a difference of night and day. I just had to stick with what I liked,
and if I ever lost it, I'd get another one. But now, with the fibers in the shafts and
everything, strengthen them, they know so much more now about shafts than they did ten
years ago that I do think that the big guys are going to get a better deal from now on.
But like I say, you know Chi Chi has gone to 56-inches shaft after his heart attack, and
he can't hit the ball -- he's really lost a lot of strength since that heart attack, but
now with this great big long shaft he looks like a different man; takes this thing and the
ball flies. So there is ways you can get around. I can't believe I've turned 60, I tell
people him hitting the ball 250 in the air. The best I ever did was 240 and that's when I
was 30 years old my best used to carry 240 yards because that's with a shaft that weighed
13.5 ounces and swing weight about D-6. Now I've got a driver that ways 10.5 ounces swing
weight is D-2. When I was younger, I think I could have done a lot better. 

Q. Do you have any experience that maybe shows that if you put the longer shafts in
your wedges that it's a negative for you?

GEORGE ARCHER: My wedges are about three inches over standard. Then I have to take so
much weight off the heads that I -- it's hard to get them to feel good. You know, I have
very light wedges. So there's that problem again. That's why I need to get some extra
light shafts and do some little experimenting and try to add another inch to my irons go
with the 41-inch -- instead of 40-inch. 

Q. Have you tried --?

GEORGE ARCHER: All the different companies. But AJ Tech is making the one that's best
for me. I wasn't even looking for a driver. Guy walks up, says: Hit this thing. Tried it
in Sacramento; man I don't need another driver. That's the best club in my bag now. For
two years, I've been driving good. He says just try this club. I stayed out there and hit
about two to three hundred balls that afternoon because I wasn't laying that day it was
Wednesday and I just kept hitting that thing all afternoon. I says, by golly, I've got to
try this, too. It's in the bag. It's so long I have to carry it on the airplane; it won't
have to fit -- I've had to order another bag. You know what I'm saying? I can only put a
46-inch driver -- 

Q. One of those extra large gloves?

GEORGE ARCHER: I've been flying around with a driver in my hand. 

Q. Does that give you a little added excitement for next year?

GEORGE ARCHER: I'm really, like -- I've been really kind of halfway thinking and going
fishing and hunting more and playing with the grandkids more because I was losing a little
bit. I've lost probably a half a club in my irons and I used hit the ball 240 with a
driver and now I was down to about 235. Now all of the sudden, boom-jumped backup I'm 250,
maybe 255 with this driver. It's like, hey, I'm getting a second youth deal again here. So
I'm really excited about it. 

Q. What does a round like today do in your decision-making process --?

GEORGE ARCHER: Not so much. One or two tournaments doesn't. They were asking me on the
television room there, what's kept me in golf so long. I've had seven operations I've had
a ton of excuses to quit. Different times when I think about quitting, last year I thought
about it real seriously I was over in Germany with my wife for two weeks on a vacation,
and I started saying, hey, you know what, this is really nice. I don't say to myself: I
have to go practice or I have to watch what I eat or I have to exercise. I'm just
vacationing. You know, I says, why not just vacation all the time. So I told my wife when
we came back from Germany, I would think about it for a month about retiring; and within
that month I won that tournament. She says, "Well, that ends that, you're not going
to retire." Well, now forget about it. Now I've got this new club -- golf is fun for
me again. I'm hitting the ball, you know, like today, it wasn't like I was -- I watched
Fleisher sink all those long putts I want doing that. I was knocking the ball close today
and making my birdies and I -- when I get going, I can knock putts in. Not as good as
Bruce; he's ten years younger than I am, but when I get hot so, so I would -- I'm going to
maybe play a little more golf than I would have next year just because of this club. It
will be fun to win again at 60. Not many guy versus done that out here on the TOUR. You've
had Player, Charles, Powell, is that it? You've had very few people who can win out here,
and Nicklaus is coming back next year and he wants to win again with that hip, see; so
he'll be -- he'll be out here playing. I they might play 15, 16 tournaments out here. I
wouldn't be surprised. That's what he's been talking about. So I'd like to win once -- one
more time since I'm 60. That would be something that would be fun to do again. 

Q. What is the CH your cap?

GEORGE ARCHER: In Hawaii, I had a little fun over there. If anybody can tell me what
this stands for I'll give you a thousand bucks. Nobody can figure what it stands for; so
then I started showing people it says inside the hat what it stands for, but I ain't going
to tell you. I walked into the pro shop over in Hawaii. It was raining; it was cold, and I
had to play with a friend of mine. In all honesty, I don't want of one of these little new
hats. I want the old big buckets. So he went in the back, and: "I found this. You can
have it; take it; I can't sell this hat over here." What it stands for, I don't know,
CH. Colby said it stands for Colbert Hills. But everybody asks me that what does that
stand for. So then I'm having a lot of fun with it. I ain't telling anybody what it stands
for. See if anybody comes up -- if anybody gets it I'll show them. 

Q. After this, you may be wearing one that says CB for Cubic Balance or something like
that?

GEORGE ARCHER: You never know. They have got a helluva club, I'll tell you that. For
big guys they have got one fantastic club. No doubt about it.

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT