NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: RANGERS v FLYERS
May 23, 1997
Brian Leetch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Talk about your wrist.

BRIAN LEETCH:  Certainly I am able to use my wrist more.  The days off certainly helped it.  I just did treatment and, you know, didn't skate or use it at all.  So, you know, I was able to do a lot more today, you know, therefore, it is going to get more sore.  It was more sore by the end of the game.  But, that is just from use.  But, it is one of those injuries like most guys this time of year, it takes time, which we don't have.  So, just keep going.

Q.  Brian, going to game 5, knowing that you have already won down there, does that help, the fact that you know you can skate with them and stay with them?

BRIAN LEETCH:  Yeah, I do not think that we feel overmatched or, you know, that we are getting dominated out there.  They have been able to get all the big goals and make all the big plays and we have got to find a way to do that, whether it is a powerplay goal or a big penalty kill.  They are the ones that stepped up to the plate.  So, we have got to find some way to do it.

Q.  Is this the time that Playoff experience comes into play; try and keep composed and --

BRIAN LEETCH:  I think so.  I think most of the guys realize that we have to find, like I said, something -- some way to get that big play.  Obviously there is no use thinking about, you know, having to win three straight games.  We have got to try and win in Philly and see what happens in there. Getting the lead, obviously, would be important down there. They are going to have the last change, so they are going to have some favorable matchups.  So, we are -- we are going to have to be very aware with our changes and what we want to do.

Q.  Are there things you would have liked to do at the net?

BRIAN LEETCH:  He played well tonight and certainly got a lot of shots on him.  We had opportunities on the powerplay where we had people in front and we missed some and he made some good saves.

Q.  Talk about that last goal.

BRIAN LEETCH:  6 seconds left in the game and there is a goal.  We came in the locker room.  There is no use crying about it or feeling sorry for yourself.  We have got to come -- we have got a tough challenge going into Philly and having to win a game where they can, you know, clinch the series, so we played well.  We have made some mistakes that you can't make against this team.  They capitalized, but we have got to continue to play for the whole game and find a way to win. 

Q.  Have you played as well, do you think in this series as your team --

BRIAN LEETCH:  It is totally different teams.  We played two of the beast defensive teams in the League and now we are playing a team that is one of the highest scoring and also doesn't give up a lot of shots too.  I think we are happy with the shots that we have generated, the scoring chances, but our mistakes, unlike the previous two series turning into goals or, you know, hit posts or great scoring opportunities - where the other teams didn't have the finishers, the players to knock it in the net.

Q.  Brian, is it more pain with your wrist or --

BRIAN LEETCH:  It is like if you had a strained ankle or strained knee, you know, the more you use it, the more sore it is.  It is a strength thing and --

Q.  Are there things though that you can't do or wouldn't do?

BRIAN LEETCH:  I think everybody can tell.  It is -- you know, I can't play with one hand on the stick.  I have got two hands on the stick all the time, you know, skating and moving the puck up, you know, with short passes, there is no problem with that.  And, if I have time and can put myself in the right position, I can shoot the puck too.  It is just -- you know, there is so much that goes on throughout the game where you are you are put in different situations and you can tell when you have an injury that -- you notice it more of what you do out there on the ice when there is a part of you that is not 100%.

Q.  Did you feel better tonight?

BRIAN LEETCH:  My wrist?

Q.  Yeah.

BRIAN LEETCH:  I was able to do more, yeah.  Certainly the rest helped and I was able to, you know, do a lot more,. Had more mobility and more strength throughout the whole game than I did and I hope, you know, it improves more into Sunday.

Q.  (INAUDIBLE)

BRIAN LEETCH:  Well, I think any time you get a lead there, you are able to get some momentum against the team. When we won in Philadelphia, we were able to bounce right back and get those three goals and get a 2 goal lead.  So, that proved to be a big benefit for us that they were able to come back, but not all the way.  So we will try and either get the lead or be able to get the advantage in the first period.

Q.  Talk about Mike's play.

BRIAN LEETCH:  Mike has been the same as he was the first two series.  Like I said it, is a different team and the mistakes we make in front of them.  There is a lot more dangerous players on that lineup than the previous ones and they are not going to give you many second chances.  They have put it in the net or create an opportunity where Mike has had  to get to one side to make the save and if we don't clear it, you know, it is an open net.

Q. Talk about Philly.

BRIAN LEETCH:  I think because of the style that they play, a lot of forcing in the zone and because of their strength, there is not so much hitting that knocks the player off the puck.  You run into someone and the guy stays on the puck.  Both players are trying to find a way to get an advantage and sticks will come up.  In you come at a guy with a stick and try and cross-check him or slash him mid-body or midsection, they are strong enough and a lot of times they are right up and they will -- that is where the sticks to the face or any of the cuts have been coming in.  Obviously, Wayne is a very, very important player on our team.  And, has had fantastic Playoffs.  But, we think he will be fine.  We have gone through injuries before and I think he said it the best, "You can't use them as excuses."  Other teams are hurt and injured and you have to find a way through it.  So we will hope he is okay and get ready for Sunday.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT