NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CELTICS VS. HEAT
September 17, 2020
Brad Stevens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  Q. You've talked about what Jayson and Jaylen have accomplished at the ages of 22 and 23, respectively.  How much do you think that has been being a part of winning teams and being in the culture that you've created as compared to them being handed over to a franchise that was not performing as well?
 BRAD STEVENS:   Well, I think obviously, their own personal growth and their teammates have everything to do with it.
 Culture is not anything that you achieve traditionally or in your history.  The culture is the people in the room, and everybody doing their job every day as well as they can.  So those guys have been leaders in that room since the moment they walked in, and for the most part, it's been a pretty amazing path for both of them.
 Q. The inevitable Gordon Hayward question.  Upgraded to doubtful, and you have him listed as out tonight.  How is he doing?
 BRAD STEVENS:   He's out.  Seems to be doing all right.  And we'll have another update, I'm sure, tomorrow.
 Q. In Game 1, Miami got in early foul trouble with Duncan Robinson and they had to come in with Tyler Herro and you had been defending well until that point.  Do you think that early foul trouble actually in a weird way may have helped them and threw your guys off a little bit?
 BRAD STEVENS:   They have got good players up and down their roster, so when one gets in foul trouble, they can bring in other guys.  It can be very impactful.  Obviously, Herro is playing at an elite level right now.  But Robinson is a guy we couldn't respect more with his ability to get shots off, tough shots, and make shots.
 I don't know that there's any advantage gained per se.  I think that ultimately both those guys are really good players.
 Q. Jayson Tatum was named All-NBA yesterday.  Curious your thoughts and how happy for him you guys are?
 BRAD STEVENS:   Yeah, he's had quite a season.  I've been lucky enough to be around now, I think three All-NBA guys in my time here.  The seasons that those guys put together are remarkable.  I thought Jayson's ascension as the season went on, his improvement, made him well-deserving.  I think that he's just going to keep getting better and better.
 Q. I know obviously you're focused on Game 2, but we haven't seen a schedule for the rest of the series after Game 3.  Does that have any impact on your preparation and the plan for Gordon Hayward?
 BRAD STEVENS:   Well, since I didn't even know that until you just said it, I would say that it hasn't impacted my preparation at all.  I just figure we're playing every other day, but that will be determined after the fact.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT