NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CELTICS VS. HEAT
September 26, 2020
Brad Stevens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  Q. Kemba was talking about how each individual was kind of trying to win it for themselves in the first half of Game 5.  Once they bought into the fundamentals and trust factor, that's where they had success.
 BRAD STEVENS:   I thought we were pressing quite a bit in the first half, especially offensively.  I thought we just played with more force on both ends in the second half.  I thought that our defense led to our offensive mentality.
 Q. You're a pretty private person.  A lot of people are, for obvious reasons.  When we're talking about things like voting and a need for that, how comfortable are you in that space, just to talk about urging people to take action when it's an intensely personal thing?  Are you comfortable in that place?
 BRAD STEVENS:   Yeah, I'm totally comfortable with that.  I think that my wife was a political science studies person in college, and from that point on I've taken a great interest in politics.  Obviously, this election is really important, and it means a great deal to us.  But also I think that it's really important to the guys.  I think that encouraging everybody to use their voice to vote is really important, and so I'm glad that the NBA has taken that stand.  I'm glad that the Coaches Association has pushed that, and I'm happy to be a part of lending my voice to that.  If that can turn out so many more people or one more person, then that's really important.
 Q. What are the challenges for you on a night-to-night basis of figuring out the Enes, Rob, Grant rotations and opportunities?  What have you thought about how they've been able to really step into various spots at various times in various series and be effective?
 BRAD STEVENS:   I think it's a lot about who we're playing.  I think that's number one -- what their rotations are, who's in for them, what our guys can do within their strengths versus the team we're playing. They all bring something different to the table.  We've done that all year.  I don't know that it's all that difficult.  I do think when we're at our best, our fives, whoever that may be on that given night, play well. That happened last night.
 Q. On those nights when you guys are pressing, shots aren't falling, do they have a tendency sometimes to forget what they can do on the defensive end?
 BRAD STEVENS:   Every basketball team ever probably, so yeah, I would say that that's probably true. I don't think that's something that's unique to us.  I think all the teams go through that to an extent. I think that if you can compartmentalize the task at hand, you can defend regardless of circumstance more often than not.  Then you've got a special team.  We've seen this team rise up to that location several times this year, including Game 7 of the Toronto series.  Last night our defense helped push our offense, which was good.
 Q. How important is it for you to keep the momentum about the second half of Game 5 for Game 6?  And how important is the mental preparation going to be for Game 6?
 BRAD STEVENS:   Every game is hard.  Every time you play a playoff game, it's its own entity.  It's not as much about momentum as it is making sure you do what you do best as much as you can and create a momentum in that game and create a play that is suited for your team in that game.  Every game is unique.  Every game is different.  Every game is hard to prepare for.  It's hard to win an NBA game.  We're going to put our best foot forward, do everything we can to be prepared to play well.
 Q. Going back to last night, what are you most proud of that is going to help you in Game 6?
 BRAD STEVENS:   I just think just generally this team has good resolve. When we got down 12 in the first and then nine in the second, I thought we showed that last night.  We're going to just have to continue to show the ability to handle good and bad throughout a game and just kind of navigate it together.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT