NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CELTICS VS. HEAT
September 24, 2020
Brad Stevens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Coach, does this first elimination game create a new mentality or is there something you draw from Game 3's success?  And last night you were awesome in your description of the impact of Tyler Herro.  Does that type of performance turn you toward a focus into a singular space with him trying to take that away, or has that become a dangerous game to play?
BRAD STEVENS:   They've got so many good players.  I think the stat of them having a different leading scorer, or not having the same leading scorer for consecutive games with the exception of once in the last 10 or 11 games, is appropriate for their team.  They can all really go.  Yesterday, Herro got going, obviously, at a ridiculous level.  But he's very capable of that.
I think that the more you watch them and the more you see them up close, Herro, Dragic, Robinson, Crowder, those guys can all go around Butler and Adebayo.  Butler and Adebayo do a great job of providing actions and getting guys going.  I think that that's a strength of their team.  They do a great job with that.
As far as assessing kind of the games and being down 3-1, we had an elimination game two weeks ago or whatever it was against Toronto, too.  Been there before.  It's not ideal by any means.  But the bottom line is that you have to play one game to win that game, and then if you're able to do that, you get another opportunity.  So our focus has only got to be on tomorrow night.  It only has to be on playing better than we played last night, and going from there.
Q. You had mentioned last night that Herro didn't really feel you guys; you didn't get into him.  Jaylen later said you guys came out flat.  The game before you had played exactly, I presume, the way you wanted to play.  How do you account for the inconsistency, and what do you have to do to correct that?
BRAD STEVENS:   We have to play better.  We've gone back, we've talked about what we need to do different as far as anything structurally.  But we have to play better.  I think we have to play with more assertiveness, aggressiveness on both ends of the floor.  I thought that the way that we were playing offensively bled into the defense yesterday in the first half.  I thought when we needed stops as the game went on, we started to really roll offensively, but we hadn't really created a night where they had felt us by then.  So they were comfortable.  So we need to play better.  I don't think there's any two ways around it.  We still had our chances, but they made the huge plays.  And the turnovers were obviously very costly.
Q. You talked about the guys needing to create their own energy in this bubble situation; obviously no home court, no fans.  What is your responsibility and the coaches' responsibility in helping with that?
BRAD STEVENS:   I think I've said that ever since the Chris Paul game [the Celtics' first scrimmage of the restart].  I've said that it's players and coaches need to make sure they're all doing their jobs in that regard.  Everybody's voice has to be a little bit louder because of the bubble environment.  I don't see that as really being an issue.  I think that that's the one thing, our bench has been really active.  It's been really loud.  Everybody has been very engaged.  So I haven't seen that as much since that first exhibition game.  I think that certainly was an eye opener for us, but that was two and a half months ago now.
We've all got to be engaged completely in the game.  The four teams that are left are all outstanding at that, and that's why they're the four teams that are left.
Q. Obviously you guys are playing in an elimination game.  What have you seen from your guys last night after the game that makes you think you guys have a chance to win the next game?
BRAD STEVENS:   I believe that if we put forth our best effort, if we are locked in on what we need to accomplish and we play with great authority and confidence, then we can win any given game.  That's what you have to go into any game with.  You don't play the score of the series as much as you play the importance of each possession.  I think that that's the bottom line.  We have to play each possession with the utmost importance tomorrow night.
Q. How has your group had to manufacture energy or joy at times when needed in here?  We're used to it being abnormal in here now, but how do you go about some sort of normalcy when it comes to energy and finding the fun of the game?
BRAD STEVENS:   The off-the-court stuff is easy, I think.  I think obviously guys are always scheduling dinners, always spending time away from basketball, whether it's at the pool together, playing video games, whatever the case may be.  I think that that's easy.  The games, you have to just keep the task at hand as the central focus.  I think any time that you put the team above self, it just becomes such an enjoyable experience.  I think these guys have done a great job of that.
I think that, again, all four of these teams have done an excellent job; otherwise, we wouldn't be here.  At the same time, that is something that you just resist the noise.  You don't pay attention to stuff that doesn't matter.  You just try to do your very best with the job you have, all while playing a kids' game.  That's been our approach.  I think it's been a good one all the way through.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT