NCAA WOMEN'S COLLEGE WORLD SERIES
May 31, 2018
DeNae Chatman
Trisha Ford
Morgan Howe
Giselle Juarez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Oregon 11, Arizona State 6   
THE MODERATOR: Arizona State, head coach Trisha Ford, to her right and DeNae Chatman, Morgan Howe and G. Juarez.  We can characterize this as a non-conventional performance, certainly from a defensive standpoint.  How do you think that contributed to the outcome?   
TRISHA FORD: I think all facets of your game need to be on point if you're going to beat a team like Oregon. I think tonight, or today, I thought G. threw well, and I just some things didn't go our way.  I thought we did a heck of a job in the box but defensively it cost us.   
It's what cost us the game.  They know it.  I mean, they are out here for the first time.  I think the speed of the game got to us a little bit today.  You know, we'll be ready to go for our next game, but very proud of their effort and very proud of their fight.   
 Q.  Talk about your performance, obviously wasn't one of your best of the season but how do you think you were out there?  
GISELLE JUAREZ: I try to go out there confidently each time.  They faced me three times.  You would expect they would make adjustments like I make adjustments to them.  I don't think I threw a bad game.  I just got out of some tough innings and that's really all I can say.   
 Q.  DeNae or Morgan, there was a lot of big home runs today.  Was it a hitters's ballpark today with the wind and how would you describe your approach?  
MORGAN HOWE: We were really prepared.  We watched film.  We know what the game plan is.  We've seen them in conference but the way the lineup is set up, too, if I'm not successful, DeNae is right there to back me up and vice versa.   
I don't know, I -- I don't know if it's a hitters's ballpark, but I mean, we are pretty used to a smaller ballpark.  I think this is smaller than ours by like a foot.   
I think in the World Series, you're going to have big-hitting games, regardless of what the size of the park is.   
THE MODERATOR: DeNae, do you want to answer that as well?   
DeNAE CHATMAN: We were well prepared.  We went out with a plan and we stuck to it.   
 Q.  You've been on a tear recently with your offense and I know earlier in the season you hit a home run against Elish.  What did you see in the first inning that made you comfortable when you stepped into the box?  
DeNAE CHATMAN: I think it's a confidence everywhere.  I know my role and I stuck to my pitch.  I was aggressive at first and I needed to take a step back and breathe and re-zone my pitch.   
 Q.  After you get it back to 6-5, obviously they came out the next inning, kind of put it away.  What were you telling your team at that time?  
TRISHA FORD: You know, I think they weren't comfortable at any point in time.  What I mean is, I thought we put pressure on them, on Oregon, every single inning.  For us it was more about just, you know, we have kind of a saying of pass the bat.   
So just continuing one bat, one pitch and I thought, like again, we were right there.  I mean, another big swing of the bat and we are right there again.  That's kind of been our philosophy.  We want to do some damage in the box and I was really proud of, you know, we got some kids on with either base hits or hit by pitches or walks.  I thought we did a heck of a job of working those counts, and then, you know, we had some kids come up with big hits in big situations.   
I think for us, it just continuing to learn, continue to get better.  You know, my money is always on us.   
 Q.  It wasn't just the fifth but in the first they responded back after you had a big inning.  Was it just the momentum this time of year?  How does that play into the game?  
TRISHA FORD: Yeah, you know, if you're not excited to play right now, you don't really have a pulse.  I think, you know, we -- we got on top.  They matched, and that's what -- that's what our conference has been like all year long, and I think, we knew that they were going to come out -- and that was a fist fight right there.  I think that we handled it well.  I think that we will-- I think that a couple things go our way, and you know, it's a different result.   
But that's what conference has been like.  We knew that it was going to be a game that we score.  We've seen each other now, this is our fourth game against each other, so it's going to be a matter of who minimizes the mistakes and takes advantage of opportunities, and Oregon was able to come out on top on that.   
 Q.  In the seventh, you appeared to be unpleased with the call when McCarty was called out on third.  How did that change the momentum of the game?  
TRISHA FORD: It is what it is.  You have to keep going, and if I react that way, they are going to react that way.  So I think it's important for us just to keep fighting.  I think it was a bang-bang play.  Everybody has their own opinions.  I don't know if she was on the bag or not.  Those were some of my questions.  At the end of the day, that wasn't something that cost us the game.  I think, you know, we controlled that destiny, and today we just didn't make those plays when we needed to.   
 Q.  My question is for actually all three of you.  What was the feeling like on the field before the game, what was that feeling like for you guys?  
MORGAN HOWE: For me, I didn't really get goosebumps yet.  I think maybe like the first inning, like right before when we were getting announced, I felt it, but it's a different type of atmosphere here.  I mean, it kind of feels like home for us -- well, for me at least because we are used to so many fans, but I mean, you could just tell like the intensity was different.   
GISELLE JUAREZ: I didn't have goosebumps, either.  It was surreal.  Definitely exciting and something that a lot of people don't get to experience or ever get the opportunity to, it's a great one, but you can't really go into it psyching yourself out.  You have to kind of like slow down and it's just like another game and that's what we were all telling each other.  Like G. said, our fans at home they are always packing the stands, so it's really to different, and the focus is in between the lines, anyway, so you don't really notice it, but it was -- it was surreal.  It was awesome.   
DeNAE CHATMAN: I personally had goosebumps.  I could tell we were doing line drills and looking out to everybody, and seeing that all these people are here to watch us, and for us to fight and try to win.  But yeah, it was a dream.  We're living it.   
TRISHA FORD: I love listening to them.  I think for me, it's about them.  They are doing their experience.  I love that DeNae was like, I had goosebumps, you know, and she should.  She's a freshman.  She probably has goosebumps before every game.  I think it's great.  I think, you know, G., that's why -- you know, her and I are together.  We are a package deal and that's why she came to ASU and same with Mo.  That's why she came to ASU.  For me I'm proud of them.  You know, I'm very, very proud of them, just wish we played a little better defense.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT