NBA FINALS: SPURS v HEAT
June 15, 2013
Mike Miller
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Did you actually get surprised when you were inserted into the starting lineup?
MIKE MILLER:   No, we stay ready, obviously.   Playoffs are about adjustments.   And you roll with the punches. 

Q.   When you say "playoffs are about adjustments," do you have to adjust anything from what happened Thursday night? 
MIKE MILLER:   We made some slight adjustments.   It's all about mentally decision‑making on the court was better.   But we expect it to be an early grind‑it‑out dogfight on Sunday and it's going to be a lot of fun. 

Q.   What are some of the adjustments that you have to make when you learned that you would be with that first group? 
MIKE MILLER:   Just being ready a little earlier.   I have had to make a lot of adjustments just coming into The Finals.   It's been an adjustment time for me.   But that's what The Finals are about, go out there and try to perform. 

Q.   Spo said you had the most productive 0‑for‑1 game.   Did it feel that way, that you played your role? 
MIKE MILLER:   Yeah, I mean right now our role is to open up the floor.   If we get shots, be aggressive, shoot it with a purpose, and that's what I'm going to try to do.   If I get shots next game, I'm going to shoot. 

Q.   Speaking of adjustments, Spoelstra has mentioned it could go big again.   How much are you ready with this kind of adjustment? 
MIKE MILLER:   Listen, this isn't Pop's first rodeo.   He's going to make the adjustments he feels he needs to make.   If he goes big or small, right now it's a slight chess match, but at the same time, when the ball tips it's all about the effort on the court, executing and making plays. 

Q.   One of the tweaks they had or adjustments, if you want to call it that, was they played Boris Diaw a little bit more.   And early on you seemed to be having some success.   How did his presence on the floor change things as far as what you guys look to do defensively? 
MIKE MILLER:   If it makes any sense to you, it's a big but small lineup for them.   He's accustomed to playing at that four spot, but creates matchup problems at the four spot.   So it gives them the ability to be big and small at the same time.   Like I said, if that makes any sense. 
He made shots, and when he's doing that, he's a playmaker as well.   It definitely adds a different wrinkle. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT