NCAA MEN'S FINAL FOUR
March 31, 2000
Mike Miller
Kenyan Weaks
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. This is an interrelated question. Kenyan, first of all, concerning the youth on your
team this year, have you felt like an unpaid babysitter? And for Mike, what exactly has
allowed this team to mature the way it has to get to this point?
 
 KENYAN WEAKS: I don't feel like a babysitter. I think our young guys have grown up a
lot this year. That has pretty much been our success this year, them being able to catch
on early for them, and they've done that. We've won basketball games. 
 MIKE MILLER: The one thing that's helped us mature as a basketball team is -- winning
definitely does that; but losing, we've lost some tough games. Any time you lose tough
games down the stretch against teams that you had the lead on the whole game and it ends
up slipping up, you know, you mature early. That's one thing that's helped. You always
look at it, you never want to lose. People say you learn from losing, I don't believe in
that. But this year it's been the case. I think it's important that we lost a couple of
close games. It's really helped our team mature. 
 
Q. This is for Mike. What did you guys learn as a team from the Butler game in the
first round when you needed that buzzer-beating shot to win in the first round, then you
make it to the Final Four? What did you guys learn from that and how did that help you
along the way?
 
 MIKE MILLER: I think we learned that it's going to take all ten of us to win. That's
definitely what it did. It also taught us that anyone can win, it doesn't matter what it
says on the front of your jersey. Butler was a great basketball team. They didn't get a
lot of pub going in just because they're Butler. You learn that anyone can win going into
any situation. We had a chance to win. I think we learned if we stick together and play as
hard as we can, the game's never finished and you can do anything you want. I think it's
really helped us up to this point. 
 
Q. Just the events in the last two days, is it going to be a distraction or has
everybody been able to just get through that?
 
 MIKE MILLER: I don't think that will be a distraction at all. I think our basketball
team's focused completely on North Carolina and how good and what they're bringing to the
table. I think our team as a whole understands the situation that we're in and that's
going to be difficult. I don't think there's no distractions.  
 
Q. For Mike or Kenyan, I wonder if you guys see the stark contrast here between teams
that some of the rest of you guys do. It starts with you guys press and run, play a lot of
people. Carolina doesn't play a lot of people. They have a 60-year old coach, you have a
34-year old coach. Do you see this as a clash of styles, clash of different approaches?
 
 KENYAN WEAKS: It's definitely two different styles of play, two different systems. I
think whoever executes that system better is going to win the game. Hopefully that will be
us. 
 MIKE MILLER: Our style of play is definitely a difficult style to prepare for. Coach
Guthridge has that team playing great basketball at the right time. He'll have something
prepared for them. The age of coaching is really no different except Coach is going to be
a little more enthusiastic. But at this point both coaches will be so... I think the
different styles are going to be interesting to see who prepares the best for each
person's style. 
 
Q. This is for Mike. From your perspective, when you -- you're a high school
all-American, you come into a system that demands you accept a role, whether it's yourself
or Brett Nelson, how do you deal with accepting a lesser role than you're used to?
 
 MIKE MILLER: It all, you know, stems back to if you want to win or not. You could
easily go somewhere as a McDonald's All-American, a basketball player who wants to go out
and succeed for himself. But if you're willing to win and buy into a system like Coach
Donovan's, then winning to me and I think the rest of our teammates is the most important
thing. I think for us to sacrifice that is important. And, you know, our style of play is
definitely what helps us win. That's why we sacrifice what we do to win. 
 
Q. Have you had to, you know, like with Brett Nelson coming as a freshman. Have you had
to kind of help him realize that the team maybe comes first? Has that been a problem for
him at all?
 
 MIKE MILLER: I don't think so. I think the thing with Brett Nelson is he still, at the
beginning of the year, didn't realize what to expect and what he can get away with that he
did get away with at the high school level. Now he's playing great basketball and he
realizes exactly what he needs to do. If we can get guard play like we have so far this
tournament, it's really the difference-maker in our basketball team. 
 
Q. This is for Mike. I guess some people would suggest that coming out of Mitchell
would be a disadvantage to a major player. In what way was it an advantage, did it help
you and what will Mitchell be like tomorrow afternoon?
 
 MIKE MILLER: I think one thing that was an advantage was coming out of Mitchell would
just be my playing for my high school coach. You know, he never let me get up a lot of
shots -- I got my fair share of shots but he never let me, you know, just go wild like I
think some high school players do. That's definitely an advantage, just because of the
fact that now I get in this system, I know how to play with the great players around me.
And Mitchell, tomorrow, is definitely going to be, you know, pandemonium. They're going to
be excited. It's definitely going to help the South Dakota area as far as basketball and
knowing that, you know, there is a lot of basketball in South Dakota, there is good
basketball players out there. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT