NBA FINALS: SPURS v HEAT
June 12, 2013
Mike Miller
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   It was a tough game last night.   What adjustment‑‑  
MIKE MILLER:   We have to be ready for Game 4.   That's it.   That game obviously, give them a lot of credit, they played well, shot well, outrebounded us.   But we have to be ready for Game 4.   There's no reason to cry over spilled milk.   
   
 Q.   What do you think guys have to change‑‑  
MIKE MILLER:   Got to play harder.   They came in here and did what they are supposed to do here at home, played with great energy and made shots.   We just have to come out here refocused and be ready for Game 4.   
   
 Q.   It seems like they've gotten you with their screening and their movement into some defensive breakdowns, where one guy switches and one doesn't, some missed communications.     Is that on you guys?   On them?   What's going on there?   
MIKE MILLER:   It's a combination.   Obviously they're great at what they've done and what they do.   For us it's sometimes doing things that we haven't necessarily done in the past.   It's going to cause some breakdowns.   
But we have to be better collectively as a group in all the aspects of the game in Game 4.   
   
 Q.   What kind of stuff are you doing that you haven't done in the past?   What do you mean by that?   
MIKE MILLER:   We're not accustomed to switching as much.   We've (Indiscernible) in a little bit.   Haven't done a great job of it.   But it is what it is, and we're ready to go for Game 4.   
   
 Q.   You've been continuing to shoot it really well.   What do you see in their defense?   What's your mindset?   
MIKE MILLER:   There's not a whole lot of them, out there to be honest with you.   You have to make the most of them when you get them.   Transition there's been a few.   But just get the opportunity, step up and stick 'em.   
   
 Q.   What did Coach say to you last night after the game?   
MIKE MILLER:   Nothing that we didn't already need to know.   We just got to be better.   It's the NBA Finals, and we didn't give a Finals effort.   So we have to be better in Game 4.   
   
 Q.   What did you say to each other after the game?   
MIKE MILLER:   The same thing.   We've been here before.   We know what needs to be done.   We just got to be better.   
   
 Q.   Are you going to take it back to Miami?   
MIKE MILLER:   We just got to be better in Game 4, man.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT