NBA FINALS: HEAT v THUNDER
June 21, 2012
Mike Miller
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Oklahoma City Thunder - 106
  Miami Heat - 121

Q.   Mike, in your wildest dreams after everything the last couple years, everything you go through on a daily basis now, if someone said seven threes in a title clincher, would you have believed it was remotely possible?
MIKE MILLER:   No, it was about staying the course.   We said from the beginning it's what we've done.   We keep grinding.   And bring energy, let it fly, have fun and enjoy the moment. 

Q.   The journey, the injuries, the championship, what has this been like for you? 
MIKE MILLER:   A roller coaster.   You know, it's been up and down, but it's worth every minute of it.   This is one thing about our team, through everything we kept grinding, we stayed the course and believed in each other.   It's been a roller‑coaster ride for everybody.   Everyone is dealing with something.   Through the injuries, I'm just glad they didn't take me back to the barn and put me down.   I'm just happy to be here. 

Q.   You limped into the game, literally, when you checked in in the first quarter.   How did you do that? 
MIKE MILLER:   How did I limp? 

Q.   No, how did you rise to the occasion? 
MIKE MILLER:   Just, like I said, it's opportunity.   Tonight was that opportunity.   A lot of us dreamed of these situations.   For me, coming from South Dakota and having an opportunity to play in two NBA Finals now is a dream come true.   I wasn't going to miss that for anything in the world. 
Tonight I got some extended minutes, and was able to take advantage of it.   Like I said, everything we've been through as a team, it was a team thing, and everything we've been through as a team has been well worth it.   One thing you can't take away is this thing right here, and that's what's most important. 

Q.   Not trying to push you out the door, but what a way to go, if you did.   Is this a decision you're going to have to make? 
MIKE MILLER:   Yeah, I think so.   I've got to make the best decision, not only for the organization, for the players that work every night, for the Arisons who believed in me, for Coach Riley for bringing me here, and then my family.   Just got to make sure it's the best one. 
If it is, I couldn't picture a better point to go out on top like this as a champion.   But we'll see.   We'll visit the doctors and see what parts work and don't, and go from there. 

Q.   Did you have any idea in warm‑ups or any time that this was going to be a special night?   And when did you know this was your night?
MIKE MILLER:   No, to be honest with you.   The whole Playoffs my jumpers felt great.   The first couple games of the NBA Finals my first jumper ‑‑ usually I can tell when I shoot that first one.   Last game when I shot the one I got, it was long, and I like being long on the first one.   I obviously like to make the first one but it was long. 
It felt good.   You get extended minutes with these guys‑‑ that's why it's fun playing with these guys; they get a double and it gives you an opportunity.   Tonight I had some opportunities and fortunately I knocked them down. 

Q.   I know at some point in the season you said no more doctors.   Have you not seen a doctor since then, even though you've been hurting? 
MIKE MILLER:   I try not to see doctors anymore.   But now I'm going to have to.   It's just the reality of the situation.   It's not anything to write about or read about.   It's just the reality of the situation.   I've got to make the best decision for everybody involved, not only myself but the team, and make sure I'm not a liability.   We'll see how it goes.   I'm just going to enjoy this right now, and we'll readdress that when the time comes. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT