NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CELTICS v HEAT
May 29, 2012
Mike Miller
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MIKE MILLER:   The bottom line is it's a numbers game.   You only get so many shots in the game.   You only score so many points in the game.   (Indiscernible) you have a feeling and you pick your spots.   
   
 Q.   Mike, do you ever wonder what the basketball gods have against you?   Ever since you put on the Heat uniform, it's been one physical thing after another.   
MIKE MILLER:   It has been difficult that way.   The things you can't control.   The bottom line is you have to look at the good things the basketball gods have given me.   I have had a chance to play in these Conference Finals a couple of times and now the NBA Finals.   So you have to go out there and make the most of the opportunities you get.   
   
 Q.   Where would you put yourself right now physically?   
MIKE MILLER:   I'm standing.   
   
 Q.   Dwyane said about last night, there's less hero ball out there and less one‑on‑one play.   Does it seem like the offense is kind of flowing a little bit more, the points are coming within the offensive system?   
MIKE MILLER:   Yeah, that's ‑‑ for the most part that's the case.   The ball popping around, as you can see.   Some of the role guys get seven, eight, nine, ten shots open.   That's good.   We're even better when we have that than we are.   Those guys are going to get their points.   They're too good not to.   So it's on the rest of us when we have opportunities to knock them down.  
   
 Q.   How much easier does it make it on LeBron and Dwyane when Shane can come in and contribute, yourself and James Jones?   
MIKE MILLER:   It's a big difference for them.   Definitely, if people have to account for us, (Indiscernible) we're making enough shots that people can't just sit in the lane.   It makes it a lot easier for them.   
They're going to get their points regardless.   They're going to get 28, 32 points, what they've done their whole career.   It's on us to find ways to get our 4, 6, 8, 10 points.   If we can get those, it makes us a lot better.   
   
 Q.   Even though you've been hurt, are you still surprised when defenses leave you open for a 3‑pointer?   It's the respect factor.   
MIKE MILLER:   Yeah, it is.   But at the same time you have to pick your poison a little bit too.   D‑Wade and LeBron turn the corner, helping out on them, so you can't get the dunk or the finish around the rim, it makes sense as well.   When you have an open shot, you just have to shoot and hope it goes in.   
   
 Q.   Realistically, how many minutes do you think you can play, just in terms of your physical state and being productive?   
MIKE MILLER:   15 to 20, probably.   If they're there, if there's more there, I'm going to get through it.   Being real productive and doing the things that I need to do, probably those numbers.   
   
 Q.   Was there any part of the game that probably wears on you more physically?   Defense, rebounding or three‑point shooting?   
MIKE MILLER:   No, just the banging and stuff like that starts wearing on you a little bit.   But it's part of it.   Like I said, best case scenario we have a month of basketball left.   Anyone can get through anything in a month.   It's not an issue.   Health won't be an issue or excuse that I have throughout the whole thing.   
   
 Q.   When you see Ray running around out there, do you start to feel a little more spry by comparison?   
MIKE MILLER:   Who?   
   
 Q.   Ray Allen.   
MIKE MILLER:   No, Ray is moving good.   Obviously he's dealing with some things.   But that's part of it.   Like I said, you play long enough in this league, get as many minutes as you get, you're going to go through injuries.   It's stuff you can't control.   He's still moving well.   He just had a lot of shots that went in and out last night.   He'll make those.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT