NBA FINALS: MAVERICKS v HEAT
June 8, 2011
Mike Miller
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. How is the team doing out there? Tough loss last night.   
 MIKE MILLER: Makes for a good battle tomorrow. Should be a fun Game 5 tomorrow.   
  
  Q. There's been a lot of talk about LeBron being a little more passive than he has in the past. What are your thoughts on the subject and where is he standing now?   
 MIKE MILLER: Listen, he's the best player in the world. He sees stuff better than anybody. If that's what he sees, obviously that's what he sees.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible).   
 MIKE MILLER: Obviously it makes things difficult. We have to get the ball up the floor faster. Get them side to side before we get low on the clock. When we get low on the clock it makes for contested shots and 9-1-1 shots.   
  
  Q. How would you describe the atmosphere playing here?   
 MIKE MILLER: Exciting. That's what we all want. It would be much better if we would have won. The atmosphere in the building was awesome last night. It's going to be awesome tomorrow. That's why we're here.   
  
  Q. Every single game coming down to a handful of possessions and every possession is so crucial. Do you guys feel confident because you guys are right there, if a few things had gone your way, or is it frustrating because --  
 MIKE MILLER: It works both ways. I think they feel like a few possessions here and there they could have command of the series. We feel the same way our way. That's why it's a possession game. We said it from the beginning. Every possession counts. That's why offensive rebounds are so big. That's why defensive rebounds are so big. That's why turnovers are so big. It's a possession game. If you can get more shots at the basket, especially as good as both defenses are playing, obviously you have a better chance.   
  
  Q. Both teams obviously are not shooting the lights out. Shot a little better last night. Does confidence ever come into play in The Finals, or is it just let it rip?   
 MIKE MILLER: No. You wouldn't be here if you didn't have confidence in your abilities. It's just the defenses are pretty good. When you're shooting shots, contesting shots over and over again, historically by the numbers, you're not going to shoot good percentages. You have to give credit to both defenses. Keep letting them rip. That's why possessions are so big.   
   
    
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT