RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
July 28, 2016
Liz Young
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Team Young is expanding in a matter of two months.  How was that round today at seven months pregnant?  
LIZ YOUNG: It was a bit of a challenge.  It was the first time I played 18 holes this week.  So it was nice to get it done.  But yeah, I played some steady golf out there.   
 Q.  1-over 73, so that gives you a good chance of being with us on the weekend.  
JOHN YOUNG: I thought she did extremely well.  She's getting very tired after 12 holes.  Just have to keep going, and the back six, playing really hard into the wind.  She hit some great shots and just needs a bit of luck tomorrow with the putts really.   
 Q.  As the months have gone on, is the fatigue starting to kick on earlier and earlier in your rounds?  
LIZ YOUNG: Yeah, in my second trimester, I was all right after 18 holes.  Then last week, The Scottish Open and this week, the fatigue sort of starts at 13, and it's all right, someone has to push me up the hills.   
 Q.  Have you lost a great deal in terms of distance?  
LIZ YOUNG: Yeah, I have, especially with the longer clubs.  It's gradually literally each week is getting less and less.  But luckily the PING Tour van was here, so I have a few more hybrids in the bag and taking my longer irons out to help me.   
 Q.  So cheerleading has gotten more and more intensive over the months?  
JOHN YOUNG: We are taking it shot by shot at the moment and just really enjoying being here this week.   
 Q.  This is going to be your last event before you concentrate on mother hood.  What's the plans there after?  Are you going to be able to come out?  
JOHN YOUNG: We'll just have to wait and see.  You can plan these things but just have to wait and see what happens.   
 Q.  Suffice it to say, you hope to be back on the Tour at some point?  
LIZ YOUNG: I hope to come back, if everything is good, in May time, play some events next year and get back into it.  I love the game, so I've got to come back to it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT