OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 9, 2015
Liz Young
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Excellent start?
LIZ YOUNG: Yeah, definitely.  I'm really pleased with 6 under today.
Q. What was going right?
LIZ YOUNG: The putting, 25 putts.  So considering my tour average this year was 31, that was pretty good, 25 putts and 15 greens hit.  That's going to equal a good score hopefully.
Q. How did you think you were playing coming into the event?
LIZ YOUNG: I've been striking it well all year.  Haven't been able to putt the numbers together.  I had a good finish in India a few weeks ago but I've been a bit disappointed with my season considering how good my swing's got compared to last year.  But it's all about putting a score on the day and today it finally happened.
Q. Many friends and family out here?
LIZ YOUNG: Yeah, got my husband out here, my mom and dad out here on their way to Australia.  My caddie, he's a local at the golf club and he's caddied for me the third year.
Q. How much does it help having a local caddie on this particular course?
LIZ YOUNG: Omar, he's a member here and he plays off scratch I think.  He's a good golfer and knows these greens.  Just if I'm a bit unsure of which way the green is going or if it's downhill, uphill, I'll be like, which way is it, and he'll be definitely it's quick, quick.
Q. How much have you been working on your putting?
LIZ YOUNG: Yeah, I've got a putting green in the front room.  Luckily my husband plays golf, so he allows the 15 foot putting matt in the lounge constantly and because it's been so windy at home and cold in England, I've been spending a lot of time holding putts, so hopefully it's paid good.
Q. You finished off with three birdies in India, so you've continued with another four birdies to start today.  What were you thinking before the start of this round today?
LIZ YOUNG: I haven't been hitting it great.  I was hitting it well at home and when I got here, the ball striking, it has not been great.  It has not been destructive but not where I wanted it to be.  I putted well yesterday in the Pro Am and this morning I was like, if you can just keep it in play, keep it on the short stuff and see if you can hole the putts, and today the putts went in.
Q. This is your third year to Dubai?
LIZ YOUNG: I think it's my sixth.  This is my seventh year on Tour.
Q. But Omar has been on the bag?
LIZ YOUNG: This is his third year.
Q. What is your best round?
LIZ YOUNG: 65 on Tour, 7 under.  Here, I've only done a 4 under.
Q. So this would be your best round?
LIZ YOUNG: I came fifth last year and I don't think I had a 5 under.
Q. How much of a help is that having a putting matt at home?  Obviously there are no contours?
LIZ YOUNG: It's the feeling of holing putt after putt, 12 feet    I've been practising 12 foot putts and it's just the feeling of the ball going in the hole, working on your stroke.  To me, I work on every putt as a straight putt.  You find the break and it's a straight putt to the green and let the green contours take it, whichever way it's going to go.  Hopefully it will continue for the rest of the week.
Q. And the greens out there, are they almost as good as the carpet that you have?
LIZ YOUNG: I was very lucky being the second group out, so there was only three people on them before us.  They are perfect.  Emirates Golf Club have done a fantastic job with these greens.
Q. What kind of aspirations do you have for this tournament, given the fact that you said that you have really not been very happy with the way your season has gone so far?
LIZ YOUNG: The start of every tournament, my goal is to win it.  I know I've got to play good golf, and especially this tournament, there's a lot of good competitors playing here and a lot higher ranked than me, but I feel like that's I can win the tournament; that's why I enter them.  I play them to win.
Q. The last few tournaments you've played over here, has it given you    the last few years when you have played over here, have you felt that this is the kind of place that
LIZ YOUNG: This course, it's slightly longer than what we normally play I would say, so it helps my game.  With the greens being so good, I can really trust the putt on the line I pick.
Q. Is this one of your favourite tournaments?
LIZ YOUNG: Definitely.  This is my favourite one.
Q. Why?
LIZ YOUNG: I love the golf course.  The weather is always perfect here, especially coming from England, you go from the cold in December and you come here and it's fantastic.  They treat us so well, the courtesy car, everything.  I can't fault this tournament.  Thought I would treat the family this year.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT