RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
August 1, 2013
Liz Young
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Great start Ricoh Women's British Open; are you thrilled?   
LIZ YOUNG:   Yeah, it's a dream come true.   It was a bit early this morning getting up at 4.30, but it was nice‑‑ I thought it was going to be chucking it down all day but it wasn't.   The weather was pretty good I thought for here.   I didn't hit the ball fantastic but kept it out of the bunker which is was key.   
I've got a local caddie this week and just let him read the putts and hit it where he told me to and I hit a lot of good putts that dropped today.  
   
 Q.   What was his name?  
LIZ YOUNG:   Jimmy Reid.   
   
 Q.   Is this the first time you've played the Old Course?  
LIZ YOUNG:   Played it as an amateur in the Curtis Cup, and had a lot of practise rounds then, and then the tournament the Curtis Cup and I played a couple of times the St Rule Trophy as an amateur, but that was off slightly different tees and it was playing longer.  
   
 Q.   How were conditions?   
LIZ YOUNG:   It wasn't perfect.   We had a bit of drizzly rain on and off, but a light breeze.   But for links golf, yeah, you'd pretty much call it perfect for links.   It's good.   
   
 Q.   What does this mean for you, what a great start, what do you hope to do from here?  
LIZ YOUNG:   I just hope to continue playing like I did today, holing the putts.   I had a double out there, which was a stupid double, too.   I should have walked off with a bogey, but hit three bad shots so you're going to walk off with a double, but tomorrow, just keep doing the same thing.   
   
 Q.   Can you just describe a little bit more what happened, the double and the birdies?   
LIZ YOUNG:   Well, I had a great start with holing a putt on the first.   
   
 Q.   How long?   
LIZ YOUNG:   It was probably 15 feet.   My caddie said just outside right edge and went in.   I continued to hole some good putts.   I made a good up‑and‑down on the fifth, the first par 5.     Went for it but a bit short.   It was a little 9‑iron chip‑and‑run and chipped it to ten feet and holed that putt.   I was thrilled with my birdie on 11, the par3.   I had to keep it below the hole, which I did, and then I had a 12‑foot uphill putt, which I holed.  
Then the double came, which I leaked my drive, 3‑wood right, into the rough, but it was an okay lie.   Had a 5‑iron into the green and didn't catch the bottom of the ball, so I thinned it and left myself 80 yards to the pin, and then thinned my sand wedge right to the back of the green.   Had like a 50‑yard putt, hit a really good putt to three feet and then pulled the putt.   
But came back with a birdie.   I was a little angry after that.   So next hole was a par 5, which was handy.   Hit good two shots just short of the green and hit a lob to about two feet and holed the putt for birdie.   
It was a stupid 3‑putt on 16.   Hit a great 5‑iron off the tee and then another great 5‑iron, chasing and running up on to the green, right level, 30 feet.   Hit it too long and missed the putt coming back, but then on 17, it's exactly the same, great drive off the tee and nice 6‑iron running up the green to about ten feet and holed the putt, so that was good.   
   
 Q.   So are you enjoying the experience of being here?  
LIZ YOUNG:   I love St. Andrews.   As a golfer, it's the Home of Golf, you just love it every time you stand on the first tee or walking down the 18th, it's the best feeling in the world.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT