NHL ENTRY DRAFT
June 23, 2001
Lukas Krajicek
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Talk a little bit about what you feel you need to improve in your game and talk a little bit about what kind of player you feel you can be at the NHL level.
 
LUKAS KRAJICEK: Well, I want to be an offensive type of player and play powerplays and just be offensive-type defense.  It fits my game. 
 

Q.  Can you talk about the decision to come over, you've been over here for a couple of years now.  Just talk about the decision to come over, how did you make it?
 
LUKAS KRAJICEK: Well, it was really a tough decision to come here, and play in the USA because you gotta leave your family and it's really tough for a young guy, when you are 16, to come here and play because you don't know any language, so it was a big step for me, I think. 
 

Q.  Do you think that playing here in North America, do you think it has helped you in the future, that there's going to be a transition with you now having to come over from the Czech Republic?  Do you think you've learned a lot basically by playing in North America the last two years?
 
LUKAS KRAJICEK: Yeah, that's for sure, because I learned to play on small rinks and the different lifestyle and just totally different from Czech Republic.  
 

Q.  Talk about the lifestyle change and how you learned English, a lot of players watch TV.  Just talk about how you've adjusted, made that adjustment.
 
LUKAS KRAJICEK: How I learned?  
 

Q.  How did you make the adjustment to the lifestyle change and the language?
 
LUKAS KRAJICEK: I think pretty well. 
 

Q.  What did you do to make the adjustment?
 
LUKAS KRAJICEK: Like I said, speak the language.  That was the first one, and I don't know.  I saw different people, like the people are different here than from the Czech Republic.  The food and everything.  Everything is different.  
 

Q.  Lukas, on the same note, are you glad you did that because if you didn't do that, you'd be coming as a Czech at this age, having to learn the language, having to get adjusted?  Now you've done that.  Talk about what that means for you in terms of starting your professional career here now.
 
LUKAS KRAJICEK: Yeah.  I'm happy because I came two years ago here and I don't know.  
 

Q.  The Panthers are a team that lack an offensive player of your caliber.  What kind of future do you think you have here?  Are you happy to be here and also do you plan in training camp trying to make a spot?
 
LUKAS KRAJICEK: Well, I know I'm going to have to work hard and try and make the team.   
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT