NCAA MEN'S 2ND & 3RD ROUNDS: MILWAUKEE
March 19, 2014
Tyler Haws
Dave Rose
Anson Winder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Tyler Haws and Anson Winder from Brigham Young University.   Questions, please.  
   
 Q.   Tyler, when you guys got the bid and were in the tournament, there were some national experts who basically said you didn't belong, that you shouldn't have got the bid.   What would your reaction be to that and is that going to be any kind of motivation for you guys?  
TYLER HAWS:   You know, we don't pay attention a lot to what people say about us, but we're pretty confident we should be in the tournament and we've got to go prove ourselves.  
   
 Q.   Tyler, how important is it for BYU's program to be recognized as an NCAA Tournament team?   This is seven out of Dave's nine years, and to be able to get in.   Is it important that everybody perceives BYU as an NCAA Tournament team?  
TYLER HAWS:   For sure.   That's our goal at the beginning of every year is to get in this tournament and to make some noise.   And so I think it's really important for our program, and we're definitely proud to be in the tournament and want to win some games.  
   
 Q.   Anson, as far as what you guys are seeing of Oregon on films since you last watched them, where are they a different team?  
ANSON WINDER:   Well, coming in we know their guards score a lot of their points along with there three man, Mike Moser.   We know we're going to have to guard them and guard the three-point line like we have through these last few weeks.   They score most of their points and that they're tough down, all their bigs are strong and aggressive.   We have to contain their guards overall.  
   
 Q.   Both you guys, how much did that loss stay from December and how much is it an incentive for you guys?   And as a follow-up, how different is it going to be not having Kyle with you and how did you make up with the loss of him?  
TYLER HAWS:   That loss definitely it stung a little bit definitely, because we were up, I think, 8 or 9 in the second half.   So we know we can play with these guys.   We're looking forward to the game.   You can't replace a guy like Kyle.   He does so much for our team, but I think our guys are ready to step up and excited for the challenge.  
   
 Q.   For both guys, a little bit along this same lines, how has the team regrouped in the last week or so without Kyle and collectively how do you replace the different things he does?  
ANSON WINDER:   I think in practice coaches have been stressing for us to be more aggressive and just to make plays when we have the opportunity.   We're losing so much without having Kyle that we'll have to make up for rebounds, assists, and points.   It just means that everyone has to be more aggressive and step up to the challenge.   I think we're all pretty excited about coming out and playing and hopefully going on a run.  
   
 Q.   Tyler, has it felt like four years since you yourself have been on this stage at the NCAA Tournament?   Long time?   Short time?  
TYLER HAWS:   You know, it doesn't feel like that long ago, actually.   I mean, it was 2010, but lots of our guys have NCAA experience and hopefully we can use that to our advantage.  
   
 Q.   For either one of you, what can you take from that earlier loss to Oregon and apply to this game, if anything?  
THE MODERATOR:   Maybe Tyler first and then Anson, please.  
TYLER HAWS:   I think just the fact that we know we can play with them.   We know their guys, we know their stuff they've, run and so it should give us confidence that we can go out and win a basketball game.  
ANSON WINDER:   Yeah, I think like what Tyler said, coming down the stretch we were up, so I think that's a good sign coming into the game.   It shows that we can hang with them and we had a chance to beat them.   It's an exciting feeling.  
   
 Q.   Anson, you guys struggled from three-point range in the West Coast Conference Tournament.   How important is it to get that shooting back from long range in this tournament?  
ANSON WINDER:   It will be important, especially because that's such a big part of our offense, especially now with Kyle out, we'll probably shoot a little bit more 3s.   We didn't shoot as well as we would like in the conference tournament.   We're trying to get our confidence up and hopefully shoot better in this tournament.  
   
 Q.   Anson, if you could answer the same question I asked Tyler about motivation, and then also will you be looking to be more productive offensively in the absence of Kyle?   Is that one role they've asked you to take on?  
ANSON WINDER:   Yeah.   I think our whole team has to be more aggressive, myself included.   Like I said before, we're losing so much without having Kyle that we'll have opportunities to step up and make plays and we'll have to be more aggressive in transition and in our sets.   That's a challenge we'll have to step up and have to deal with, and overall with the motivation of this tournament and having a loss, it's a competitive factor.   We want to come in and compete, and that's what we've done all year and we're excited for the challenge.  
THE MODERATOR:   Other questions?   All right.   Gentlemen, thank you very much.   Good luck.  
Please welcome BYU head coach, Dave Rose.   Maybe a general comment or two just about your team and your expectations for this weekend, and then we'll open up for questions, please.  
COACH DAVE ROSE:   Well, we're excited to be here in Milwaukee.   I think that it's more like March here in Milwaukee as far as the weather is concerned than it was in Utah.   When we left Utah, it was 60 degrees.   This feels more like basketball weather, so we're excited to be here.   I think our team is really looking forward to our first round -- second round match-up with Oregon.   It's a team we've played, and it was a little surprising when the brackets were released, but in a lot of ways, I think it's kind of beneficial to be able to play somebody that you've already prepared for and you have a scouting report for and familiarity.   And as we go back and watch films of the last eight, ten games, Oregon keeps playing really well and will be a lot of challenges for us, but we look forward to it.  
THE MODERATOR:   Question, please.  
   
 Q.   Coach, of your seven NCAA Tournament appearances, would this have been the season with maybe the most in-season adversity to overcome and how will the characteristic of resiliency serve you ideally against Oregon in this tournament?  
COACH DAVE ROSE:   I think that as far as challenges during the year, we've had quite a few this year.   And I think that's the thing that this group is probably, you know, most proud of is the fact we've overcome quite a few challenges to get here to the NCAA Tournament, and now hopefully we can overcome another hurdle, which is the loss of Kyle Collinsworth, our starting point guard, one of our leaders in points scored and assists and rebounds.   But what we've always said going through the season and the issues you have to deal with is that basically what that is is an opportunity for other players to step up.   And we have good players and we're fortunate that the position, you know, we'll start a guy in a position who started over 70 games for us in Matt Carlino.   We're bringing experience into that position, and hopefully we can have some guys on the bench that will really step up their play here in the tournament.  
   
 Q.   Dave, this is seven out of nine for you in the NCAA Tournament.   How important is it for BU's program to be recognized as an NCAA Tournament team and also how critical was the non-conference schedule to get you to this point?  
COACH DAVE ROSE:   Well, I said this before and what I really want for our players who come to BYU is to be able to have this experience.   I remember as a player, the two NCAA tournaments I was able to play in, it's like nothing else.   It's a life experience that you relate to forever.   And I think that that's what I want for our players, and the fact that we've been able to get back here seven of the nine years is, I think, a real tribute to the guys and to our assistant coaches.   And I'm happy for this group because this group went through some real challenges in November, December, and we flew from one end of the country to the other, playing really good basketball teams.   We had a lead against Wichita State in the second half and that gets away from us and we don't win that game.   Our guys were kind of crushed.   At the time we didn't know Wichita State was going to win 34 games in a row.   We played UMass back in Springfield and Stanford at Oregon.   So we had quite a few road games where our guys were really tested.   The Iowa State game at home always sticks with us because it was a two-point game an one we thought we could win, up 12 at one time in that game.   They've gone on to have a great year.   The challenges that our guys have been through, I think there's confidence in that, but hopefully that will help us in this game on Thursday.  
   
 Q.   Dave, can you talk a little BIT about Carlino's season, kind of ups and downs, ebbs and flows, kind of what you expect from him stepping back into the starting role?  
COACH DAVE ROSE:   Personally I think Matt has had his best season since he's been here.   When you come off the bench as a sixth man, it seems from a public opinion or from a media opinion that maybe his season has been tarnished, but in reality I think his play has been so consistent and so steady for our team that he's been a huge factor in our success.   And we need Matt to play well for our team to be successful, and that will probably step up a little more because he'll get probably get a few more minutes.  
But his ability to be able to not only score the ball, but he can really deliver passes on time in our half-court sets and in transition, and that's a huge -- a big key for the other players around him, and that will be Matt's biggest challenge is trying to get the ball to the guys at the right time.   
This Oregon team is so long and so athletic and they're just really quick to everything, and Matty is going to have do a really good job of finding our guys at the right time so they can deliver the ball and be able to score.  
   
 Q.   You mentioned some of the other kind of heartbreaks and losses that stuck with you.   How long did the Oregon loss stay with your guys and how do you think that that can serve them tomorrow?  
COACH DAVE ROSE:   Oregon is a bad loss, one of the worse of the season because it came right at the Christmas time, and so you leave the guys at the locker room and send them back to where they're going to go to spend Christmas and brought them back Christmas night.  
The fact that we had a lead late in that game and kind of got away from us.   But what they did to us the last few minutes in regulation and the last -- and in the overtime is what they kind of have done the last ten, 12 games in the Pac-12, is where they have really dominated the glass, shot the ball at a great percentage especially from the three-point line, and then Johnathan Loyd has been terrific at running that team and getting the ball anywhere he wants on the floor and being able to deliver to it scorers in prime positions.  
That will be a big key for us, trying to control his penetration, his ability to get the ball to their scorers.  
   
 Q.   How has the practice time helped you since Kyle's injury in terms of getting the guys past what happened and putting them back into what you want to do without Kyle?  
COACH DAVE ROSE:   Well, I think we've been fortunate in that way because the first day of practice when Kyle wasn't there, it was an emotional wreck with our guys.   Everybody would try to go through the motions and play hard.   The feel in the gym was basically everybody feeling sorry for Kyle or maybe feeling sorry for themselves or whatever the problem was.   But the fact that we've been able to have three, four practices and then the shot of adrenaline on Sunday being in the tournament and having a second round game instead of a first round team, everybody talked about us being one of the last teams in and the last couple practices have been really great.   
The guys have been enthusiastic.   I think we felt way more like ourselves.   Kyle had surgery yesterday.   And so coming out of practice a lot of the guys were really interested in how the surgery went and how he was going to be.   But for the most part, I think hopefully physically and emotionally in our practice we have moved on from the loss of Kyle and hopefully we'll play well.  
   
 Q.   Coach, what are some of the ways specifically as a team collectively you can compensate for what Kyle does that you're playing the first game without him?  
COACH DAVE ROSE:   I think the most important thing is the aggressiveness of our guys, and I think that the NCAA Tournament lights are really bright and you get kind of an interesting game from all your guys, all your players, and what you hope is we get a real consistent feel from not only the starters but the guys who are going to get a few extra minutes.   Skylar Halford who started for us, had a 28-point game at our place against San Diego this year.   So the guys are capable of doing of job.   Josh Sharp is another guy who can help with the rebounding issues.   He's a really athletic, explosive guy, and hopefully he can perform well in his minutes.   Frank Bartley who played really well for us early in the season and then during conference didn't get as many minutes will get a real opportunity.   And what you want is just the guys to play their best.   And if we do that and we kind of manage the personnel and these guys are playing their best basketball, then we'll be able to kind of maybe compensate for the loss of Kyle.  
If we get into a different situation and we just rely on five guys, those five starters, then it can be really tough for us.  
   
 Q.   I know Texas is not top of mind for you, but you guys beat them in non-conference before they really got things figured out.   Does anything stick out to you about that game?   And did you keep up with them as the season went on?  
COACH DAVE ROSE:   Yeah.   I think that the thing that sticks out the most is that we played almost 40 minutes of zone, which is not like us at all.   They're athleticism and their size and strength really caused us some match-up problems.  
We got in that zone and we kind of fought through that game the whole way, then at the end really played well and closed the game out.  
The Texas win was absolutely huge for us in our resume late in the season because of how they played.   And really what I remember most about the Texas game is the fact that we were on a roll, we played so well, and then we played Wichita State the next night and had them down 13 at one point in the game and let that get away.   And I don't know why I remember that when you asked me about Texas, but that's what I can remember (laughter).  
   
 Q.   For obvious reasons.  
Dave, if you could reply to some of these national guys who have said that BYU is either overseeded or doesn't belong, would you reply, and if so, what would that be?  
COACH DAVE ROSE:   Probably I'd just tell them that if you would spend five months with our team, you would have a whole different understanding or reasoning or interpretation or feeling about our team because these guys deserve to be here.  
THE MODERATOR:   Anything else?   Coach, thank you.   Good luck.  
COACH DAVE ROSE:   Thanks a lot guys.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT