CIMB CLASSIC
October 22, 2016
Miguel Tabuena
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Two eagles on the scorecard, one double-bogey, so how do you feel about your round today?  
MIGUEL TABUENA: Pretty good considering the bad start on hole No. 11.  But I hung in there.  I know that I'm playing really well, playing really solid, and I had a few good breaks today with the eagles.  Hopefully I can play the same way tomorrow and climb the leaderboard.   
 Q.  Did you do anything different today from the last two days?  
MIGUEL TABUENA: The first day, I have a tendency to pressure myself a bit too much in the bigger events.  But I told myself starting yesterday and today, just treat it like any other Tour event you play in, because you know that you're playing well, and it's just a matter of timing and good breaks.   
 Q.  And to finish with a good result here, although it's just the third round, must give you a lot of confidence.  This is your second PGA TOUR event?  
MIGUEL TABUENA: It is, yeah.  I have an outside goal to earn about 150, 160 FedExCup points to get me into the Web.com finals, four of the last tournaments, which -- and then if I play well there, I could get into the PGA TOUR.   
I've just got to keep playing the way I'm playing and I know it will happen soon.   
 Q.  Besides getting on the PGA TOUR, the Order of Merit should be in the back of your mind this week?  
MIGUEL TABUENA: For sure, yeah.   
 Q.  How much are you thinking about it?  
MIGUEL TABUENA: Like I said, I can't pressure myself too much.  I've just got to make my game do the talking, and the way I'm playing right now, it shouldn't be a problem.  But I saw Scott Hend on the fourth tee, and he was 9-under for the day.  And I was like, oh, what a round, props to him.   
But it's not over.  Still have one more day left and we'll see what happens.   
 Q.  You obviously have a lot of goals in your career, winning majors and playing the PGA TOUR.  How important is winning The Asian Tour Order of Merit?  
MIGUEL TABUENA: It's up there.  This is the most prestigious tour in Asia and a Filipino won it a few years ago, Juvic Pagunsan, and I hope I can put my name on that trophy, also, one day.   
 Q.  A good result here should --  
MIGUEL TABUENA: Should seal it, yeah.  But like I said, there's plenty of golf and I can't get ahead of myself.   
 Q.  You played with Ernie Els today?  
MIGUEL TABUENA: I did.   
 Q.  What was the experience like playing with him?  
MIGUEL TABUENA: It was one of the best experiences I've had on the golf course.  Such a nice guy.  He's super down-to-earth.  And you can just see why he's a multiple Major Champion and hopefully I can have half the success he's had in his career.   
 Q.  What sort of advice did he give you?  
MIGUEL TABUENA: Quite a lot actually.  About different stuff about my game, management, my schedule for next year.  I made a new friend today, Ernie Els.   
 Q.  Just want to get your eagle details.  
MIGUEL TABUENA: On 18, my ninth hole, I hit driver, 3-wood to about 40 yards and holed it.  It was good.   
On No. 3, I hit driver, and then I had about 250, 255, 260 yards to the pin.  I hit 5-wood, drive the green and then got on the green, caught the slope and I had a 5-footer for eagle and knocked it in.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT