NBA DRAFT
June 25, 2009
Jonny Flynn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. I wanted to ask you two questions: What have your reactions been and how do you feel about playing with those guys in the backcourt?  
 JONNY FLYNN: You know, it's been a crazy ride over the past two months. I shot up the draft boards when I first said I was coming out, late in the first round, just good workouts and a good showing at the NBA Draft Combine. So it was definitely a roller coaster ride from then, people telling you that you should stay in school and they tell you you're making the wrong decision and to now.  
 I think going to Minnesota, it's a great organization and a great fit for me. You've got Kevin Love and Jefferson; two, big men that can make my life easier. I can get them the ball in situations where they can score and they can make me a better player.  
  
  Q. Do you think you'll play 48 minutes a game?  
 JONNY FLYNN: If that's what they need me to do, I played 20 over times a few months ago, so I think I can do that.  
  
  Q. Did you see them play on television at all?  
 JONNY FLYNN: I haven't seen them play on TV, but you see highlights and things like that.  
  
  Q. Are you surprised they got Rubio?  
 JONNY FLYNN: You see the NBA going to a format with two point guards. That's what the game is shifting to. It's good to have two facilitators that can make plays on the course. I think we can boost each other's level of play and I can't wait to go play with him.  
  
  Q. So having Rubio alongside, does not concern you at all?  
 JONNY FLYNN: You're just a basketball player out there, whether you're playing with a superstar, Kobe Bryant or James, they are going to have the ball most of the time anyway. But with two of you, you know you don't have the pressure on to you do everything, so it's going to be great.  
  
  Q. What adjustments are you going to make from the college game?  
 JONNY FLYNN: I think just getting back and playing man-to-man defense. Two years at Syracuse, we didn't play a whole lot of man-to-man and I'm ready to go into the NBA and show that I can play man-to-man defense and my athleticism and quickness makes up for my little body.  
  
  Q. Did you have a feeling you were fated to play for Minnesota?  
 JONNY FLYNN: Yeah, I don't know, it might be a little cold for me.   
  
  Q. Are you going to insist on a no-Sunbelt team in your contract?  
 JONNY FLYNN: No, whatever happens, happens. It's just good to be in the organization like this, weather permitting, anything like that. I'm just happy to be in an organization that fits my style of play.  
  
  Q. And will you give Rubio some cold weather tips? He doesn't seem to be as happy as you are.   
 JONNY FLYNN: He's coming from Spain, I don't think it ever snows over there. I can give him what kind of clothes to buy and what snowshoes to buy and things like that and it will be fun.   
  
  Q. What had Minnesota said to you? Did this take you by surprise?   
 JONNY FLYNN: You know, they just said that I was really high on their draft board, but a lot of teams tell you that. A lot of teams don't really show their cards until the night of the Draft. So you've kind of sort of got to take what these teams are saying out one ear and through the other because they could be telling four, five, six different players the same thing.  
 The one time you can tell if a team is serious is when they pick you and I guess Minnesota was really high on me.  
  
  Q. Is this a good time for a guy with your size and skill set to be coming into the NBA, with the way the game is changing?   
 JONNY FLYNN: I think so. You look at guys like Chris Paul, you look at Aaron Brooks in the past playoffs, guys like that have really dominated the basketball game. When I see that, I kind of throw my hands up in the air and say, "yay for the little guy."   
 What definitely made it easier for me to come into the NBA without so many skeptical questions at the end of the day.  
  
  Q. Do you see yourself getting into a competition with Ricky or can you complement each other?   
 JONNY FLYNN: I don't think it can be competition. We are playing for the same goal and that's to win an NBA championship. I think we can go in there and we can compromise, where he may have the ball or where I may have the ball. I think it's going to be fun to have another player who can make plays just like you.  
  
  Q. Is there a particular coach or style of play you would like to see?   
 JONNY FLYNN: Me being a guy that likes to get up-and-down the floor, if you ask any point guard they want to be in a system that runs. I think the style of play that definitely fits me is up tempo, a game that's pushing the ball up the court and getting the shots up in quick time.   
  
  Q. Your teammate in Niagara Falls, Paul Harris, how much are you looking forward to hearing his name?  
 JONNY FLYNN: I'm looking forward to that, he's a guy that showed many improvements in a short amount of time since the season was over. I can't wait till he gets drafted. I'm going to give him a big call and tell him he made it.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT