NCAA WOMEN'S COLLEGE WOLRD SERIES
June 2, 2017
Sahvanna Jaquish
Beth Torina
Allie Walljasper
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Florida - 7, LSU - 0
BETH TORINA: Florida played a really good game.  They're tough.  You know, they're ranked for a reason.  Obviously they showed it today.  I like our team's fight.  I thought the first few innings we did a really good job.  I thought throughout the game we did a really good job against (Kelly) Barnhill, just couldn't seem to string it together.  I thought our plan was effective.  I was proud of our plan.  I thought our kids worked really hard to be prepared and I thought they were prepared.
You know, I think no matter which way they would have gone with their pitching staff, it would have been tough.  I think they have a great staff.  They have a very deep staff.  But honestly, I think we were excited about the opportunity to face Kelly Barnhill tonight.  We watch her on TV all the time.  You're excited for the opportunity.  That's why we came, right, to play the best.  I think our team fought hard, and just didn't seem to happen or all come together for us.
Q. Sahvanna, like Coach said, you guys did a good job of really making contact on (Kelly) Barnhill; what did you think as your first time facing her this year?
SAHVANNA JAQUISH: She's a great pitcher, and she's MVP of the league for a reason.  She really does have a good rise ball, good upspin.  But nothing took me by surprise.  I was prepared, and our coaches prepared me for it and prepared my team for it, so not really surprising.
Q. Coach, what would you say was the biggest difference between (Kelly) Barnhill last year and Barnhill tonight?
BETH TORINA: I don't even know if I remember five minutes ago.  I have a lot of kids and stuff.  (Laughter.)  I think one has got a birthday next week, too, and I don't even know if I'm prepared.
I think she's just very confident.  I think Jen Rocha is the best pitching coach in the country and did a great job with her in the offseason getting her prepared.  I think she uses more weapons than she used last year.  I think last year she was kind of dominated by one pitch, and tonight she had a ton of drop balls.  She has a lot more weapons it seems than she had last year and a lot more confidence.  She's put together one of the best seasons we've seen in college softball in, I don't know, 10, 15 years.  It's amazing what she's been able to do.  That's why I'm so proud of how my team fought against her tonight.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT