U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2017
Angelo Giantsopoulos
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Angelo, obviously today, you had the first real, seed-wise, big win of the day.  What do you think was working for you today that allowed you to be so good on the course?  
ANGELO GIANTSOPOULOS: I kept it on the course.  I didn't make too many mistakes off the tee.  My putting really just came through today.  In the stroke play competition my putting struggled a little bit, didn't make as many putts as I would have liked.   
But coming into today I made a rot of putts, starting with my first putt on 1.  Made a good birdie getting out of the gate running pretty much.  That's important in Match Play, you've got to find a way to really get to your opponent and find a way to get to the point where you want to be.  So making a birdie on the first hole and then coming through with just solid play after that was important.   
 Q.  How big of a momentum shifter is this for you?  Just getting off to such a good start in Match Play?  
ANGELO GIANTSOPOULOS: Well, being the 61st seed, John said it best, he said, never would I have thought I'd be down to the 61st seed on the first day of Match Play.  And I think that sums it up.   
The number is just a number that's all.  Anybody can post a good number at any time.  I think that's most important to think when it comes to Match Play, anybody can do anything.  I guess this is a good example of it.   
 Q.  What do you think are going to be the keys to keeping this momentum going throughout the rest of Match Play?  
ANGELO GIANTSOPOULOS: I have to keep my head steady.  Again, keeping the ball in play off the tee.  If you keep it in play off the fairway, the course is significantly easier than if you just put it in the rough.  That was a thing I did well today.  I didn't have too many shots out of the rough, and when I did, I just took my par and ran.   
So that's probably the biggest thing that I'll keep on focusing on for the rest of the event.   
 Q.  How excited are you just starting off Match Play this way?  
ANGELO GIANTSOPOULOS: This is my first time at the U.S. Junior Am being able to win 3 and 1 is definitely relieving.  You don't have to stress out anything on the last hole or grind out.  But it's just, I don't think it's sunk in yet to be honest with you.  It's a great experience.  I've had an awesome time, and I look forward to tomorrow and see what I can do then.   
 Q.  Anything else you want to add?  
ANGELO GIANTSOPOULOS: I just want to say thank you to everybody that's supported me and believed in me so far.  It's been a great time.   
 Q.  Where does this win rank in your career so far?  
ANGELO GIANTSOPOULOS: Close to the top.  I can't imagine it would be anywhere not comparable to getting here first, coming second in the qualifier.  And I played well this year.  I've come fourth in the future Masters, and probably this, just advancing and getting on to the next round is up there.  Probably one of the biggest accomplishments in golf to date.   
 Q.  Sometimes when the higher seed loses, they struggle.  But you made a lot of birdies today to beat him.  
ANGELO GIANTSOPOULOS: Yeah, my caddie says it the best.  He said if this wasn't the round of 64, you'd think it would be the televised final match.  John and I were at the time we were both all-square at 13 or something like that, I was 4-under and he was 3-under or we were both 4-under, and he made a bogey on the par-3, and I came out and just made a par.   
Then had a chance -- I had a couple of chances to really put away the match.  But on 16, I made a nice 25 or 20-footer for birdie down the hill to really seal the deal.   
 Q.  How did you win 14 with the par?  Because that was a key hole.  
ANGELO GIANTSOPOULOS: Yeah, 14 John pulled his ball a little left, and I just said I need to put it on the green and two-putt ask get out of there.  I made my two-putt and he just missed out on his par putt.  He made almost a great up and down from the left rough probably in the fescue, I'm not sure.   
 Q.  What club did you hit in there?  
ANGELO GIANTSOPOULOS: I hit a 7-iron.  Just a knockdown 7-iron to keep it below the wind.  It's just more accurate.  That was a more accurate shot.   
 Q.  What would you say is your biggest accomplishment in Ontario or Canadian golf prior to today?  
ANGELO GIANTSOPOULOS: Well, my biggest accomplishment for Ontario is probably what I did here.  I came second in Provincial Championships, and last year I came in third, and kind of my spring Junior Provincial.   
So I've had some good success back at home, including win national championships, but I don't rank that as high because that was a little while ago.  I just need to focus on what I'm doing now and not what I did then.  So that would probably come in second.   
You know, Ontario Provincials was a big thing for me, and it was great coming into this event for sure.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT