MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
December 3, 2013
Fou Fonoti
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






Q.   What would it mean to you to get back to California?   Have you already kind of talked to family about this in terms of just having that vision of it? 
FOU FONOTI:   It would definitely be a blessing.   You think about it, how many chances you get a second opportunity, and it's just‑‑ to understand that we're finally here, we've just got to finish this year off strong, and to know that we have the opportunity to get my brothers back home, that's the way I see it, so definitely excited about that.

Q.   Two‑part question for you:   First, bright red pants; are you allowed to wear red this week?   And secondly, more importantly, what does Ohio State's front seven do that presents a challenge for you and how do they compare to some of the other D‑lines you've faced?
FOU FONOTI:   Start with the first question.   I'm a festive guy.   I love Christmas.   And being a thing that comes final time, I like to dress myself in things that bring positive vibes.   This is my last week of class.   I was feeling good with these PJ pants. 
Second question, these guys are a great group, front.   If I'm correct they're leading the Big 10 in sacks.   But we definitely have our work cut out for us, but I definitely have all the confidence in our guys.   We take on the challenge, we take on this challenge headfirst, so definitely excited about that.   You've got guys, Noah Smith is a great young guy, as well as Bosa, very explosive, strong guys, and you have Bennett inside there who's quick, moves‑‑ uses his hands well.   Definitely excited about that, and should be definitely an exciting day. 

Q.   Coach was saying if we finish 12‑1, why not us in terms of if certain scenarios fall our way, that we could be in the BCS national title talk.   Do you guys feel that that's the case given that you had maybe a controversial close loss to Notre Dame, that you guys have done enough to put yourselves in the conversation?
FOU FONOTI:   You know, that's definitely something that I know many have thought about and Coach D always talked about we worked hard enough to be in the position we are today if things come out.   But our main goal is to come out here and make it a great game and get the W. 
Whatever things may happen, we just‑‑ all I know is we've got ourselves believing in the team and making our own work.   Definitely excited about that, so just wait until Saturday. 

Q.   Connor was pretty emphatic about saying we have an offense here at Michigan State, it's not just a defense.   Is there a certain chip on your shoulder as an offense that you guys have because there is so much talk about the defense and rightfully so, that you guys are pulling your weight, as well?
FOU FONOTI:   Definitely.   It's tough to always hear.   We're definitely buzzed for our defense; hats off to them for always getting it done.   But we definitely have to pull our own weight, and it's tough to always hear people get hesitant when they talk about our offense.   It's something that we take pride in and we're going to do our best to go out there and perform and get the job done.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT