MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 12, 2013
Fou Fonoti
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






Q.   I remember talking to you on signing day when you talked about wanting to go back to California and play in a Rose Bowl.   Here you sit in November with that generally being ahead of you.   How do you not look ahead to that and just focus it one game at a time?
FOU FONOTI:   Coach D always talks about‑‑ he made a great point.   He said we shouldn't worry about we need this team to beat that team, this team to beat that team.   If anything it's for us to take care of our own work, and I definitely feel that the truth is in that. 
We've just got to continue to go out here each week, become 1‑0, and that's pretty much our main goal and not look past our opponent.   We definitely have a great challenge this week in Lincoln, so definitely excited about that. 

Q.   Nebraska, I think they have more sacks than anybody in the Big 10.   I know you guys watch a lot of film and you guys have been pretty stingy about preventing sacks, so what are the keys to that match‑up as far as Nebraska's pass pressure against State's offensive line?
FOU FONOTI:   They definitely have a group of guys up there that's definitely getting the job done.   No.44 defensive end, No.9, I remember them, but they do a great job, just a lot of stunts, a lot of movement up there, a lot of very shifty guys, use their hands well.   We definitely take that as a challenge to go out there and just keep Connor safe. 

Q.   You've mentioned about No.44, Gregory.   What have you seen in him over the last few weeks in terms of film and what he does maybe to get to the quarterback in particular? 
FOU FONOTI:   You know, he's definitely an athlete at 6'6", I want to say 275 or 280, he moves very well, shifty guy.   He can make a quick move on the inside and speed rush on the out.   Just watching him, just‑‑ we know he's definitely one of their‑‑ probably one of their best, their best defensive linemen.   It's definitely going to be exciting for us. 

Q.   You were injured last year, right, in this game?
FOU FONOTI:   Yeah.

Q.   You watched that sickness from the sidelines, I guess?
FOU FONOTI:   Yeah.   Yup.   I was sitting on that sideline in crutches.

Q.   What do you remember not only about that, I know you didn't play, but about going there two years ago and what kind of environment that stadium is?
FOU FONOTI:   That environment kind of throws you off for a second.   You know, going into a hostile environment, you're not expecting people to welcome you the way they did.   You know, it was definitely‑‑ I don't know what it was.   You walk in and people say, hey, welcome to Lincoln, pleasure having you here, we wish you all the best.   We're down at halftime and we're walking in, and people are saying, hey, keep it up, keep it up.   As a player going there and knowing that, you don't know how to really cope with that.   But knowing that from two years ago, we know any environment is going to be a difficult place for us.   We'll definitely be willing to embrace that.

Q.   Are you saying you're almost more comfortable being yelled at than being treated nice?
FOU FONOTI:   I like the hostile environment.   I like knowing that the only people I can rely on is my brothers out there, and it's definitely something I'm used to.   But when you're going out there and you hear people trying to shake your hand, it's definitely something different.   I'll definitely say that.   But that environment is definitely incredible.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT