NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: THUNDER v WARRIORS
May 16, 2016
Joe Borgia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MATT WINER. Joe, welcome once again.  We've got three plays cued up for you to look at.  First, Andre Iguodala is fouled on a put-back attempt, but there were no free throws awarded.  How come?   
JOE BORGIA: Yeah, you had a very close play here.  Barnes misses the shot and as Iggy goes up, he is fouled.  Now the question is, does Iguodala have control of that ball?  And the official on the court felt he did not have control.  Like I said, it's very close, but I think when he first gets hit he doesn't have control, and then after the foul is when he gets it and puts it in.  So since the foul happened when he didn't have full control he was not awarded free throws and there was no penalty.  So it was a sideout.   
MATT WINER. Very tough one especially in real time.  Russell Westbrook in the final 30 seconds of the game.  Dribbles into the front court, looking to call timeout, appeared to drag his pivot foot but there was no travel called.  What happened on that play?   
JOE BORGIA: Yeah, you know, you have a tough play here.  You've got a pretty quick transition play.  The officials are thinking possibly that Thompson might want to take a foul, so they're focusing a lot on Thompson.  Then all of a sudden Westbrook just pulls up.  The officials, no one could get in a good position to see him drag that pivot foot.  It's an unfortunate miss, but so much going on in the play, the speed of it, and officiating is about getting angles and sometimes you just can't get them, and they did not get a great angle on that play.   
MATT WINER. Westbrook was called for a lane violation as he attempted to rebound his own miss on a free throw.  Explain to the folks at home the letter of the law there.   
JOE BORGIA: The free throw shooter is the only one that has to wait until the ball hits the rim before he can go for the rebound, and what happens on this play he shoots, I think he knows he missed it, and he steps forward over the line before the ball hits the rim, and that makes that a free throw violation on Westbrook.  A little time came off the clock, but the referee saw that, they reset it, and so the violation was correctly called on that play.   
MATT WINER. We've seen him rebound his own misses on free throws before.  He's such an explosive athlete, but you've got to be careful when you go about that.  Joe, appreciate it as always.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT