NBA DRAFT
June 26, 2014
Tyler Ennis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   If you could just start with an opening statement about being drafted by Phoenix, please. 
TYLER ENNIS:   I'm real excited.   I think at this point everybody just wants to hear their name called. 
I had a really good workout in Phoenix.   Their style of play fits mine, and I think with the young talent Phoenix has and me being a facilitator, I think it could really work well. 

Q.   Tyler, you're going to a team that's got a lot of guards.   How do you fit into that system?   And are you prepared to maybe have to play the backseat for a little bit? 
TYLER ENNIS:   I'm more than ready to work.   I think at this level you definitely have to earn your keep, earn your minutes on any team you go to.   I think this is no different situation. 
I'm ready to come in and learn the system, learn from the veterans, and just earn my keep. 

Q.   Tyler, do you think that Nash having a history in Phoenix, maybe they're looking to you to bring that run‑and‑gun style back to Phoenix? 
TYLER ENNIS:   I never thought about that, but definitely, if they see something in me that they seen in Steve and the career he had, I'm definitely more than happy to go in there and do the same thing that Steve did.

Q.   How do you think your impact of you being drafted will have an effect on Canada basketball as a whole? 
TYLER ENNIS:   I think this is a big year.   We had the No. 1 pick.   We had Nik go in the lottery, myself, and a bunch of other Canadians who are still waiting to hear their name called. 
At the end of the night, Canada has something to be proud of. 

Q.   Tyler, Phoenix had a great turnaround last year, almost making the playoffs, winning 47, 48 games.   Talk about how excited are you to be able to be part of a franchise on the upswing and with a coach like Jeff Hornacek who has the trust of his players already. 
TYLER ENNIS:   That's definitely something that's attractive with the young talent Phoenix has, a young core group of guys, and they had a really good season last year. 
I think heading into next year, it will be a hungry team, and I'm more than happy to go in there and contribute to that.

Q.   You talked about how the Suns style fits yours.   It's obviously a very up‑tempo style.   Could you talk a little more about why you like that style of play. 
TYLER ENNIS:   I think when you have talent on the wings as a point guard, to get up and down, we have some of the best athletes in the game.   But with myself, I see myself not turning the ball over too much, and I think when you're on the fast break running, you get vulnerable if you turn over the ball. 
I think I fit the system going up and down and finding guys in transition. 

Q.   Michael Carter‑Williams, another Syracuse point guard, was here.   Did you get a chance to catch up with him yet? 
TYLER ENNIS:   Yeah, I seen Michael last night at a dinner.   He just gave me a couple words of advice, just to relax and enjoy it and just to continue working hard.   I seen him today, and he congratulated me. 
It's good to have somebody in your corner that went through the same thing as you and is just there to help you. 

Q.   How strange will it be to spend winter in a place where there won't be any snow? 
TYLER ENNIS:   This is probably going to be my first year not seeing snow, but I think change is good. 

Q.   All the guys here from the Canadian side all came from CIA Bounce.   Can you talk about the program and the impact of all the CIA Bounce making an impact at the next level. 
TYLER ENNIS:   They definitely helped me get to where I am now.   The competition they put me from front of, the tournaments they put me in front of, everything they did for me, my whole AAU career growing up really helped prepare me for Syracuse first of all, but also the NBA.   CIA Bounce is one of the main factors that helped me get to this level. 

Q.   Who's next from CIA Bounce? 
TYLER ENNIS:   Jamal Murray. 

Q.   This is going to the future, speaking of Canada, talk about the 2016 team, the Olympic team.   You guys could give the U.S. a run for that gold medal? 
TYLER ENNIS:   I think we could put together a really good team.   2016 might be early.   The U.S. is going to have a tough team regardless of what year it is. 
I think, once we get in the gym together, getting chemistry and just get all the talent in one gym for the first time, I think that will be a big moment for Canada.   I think not only 2016, but the following Olympics I think we'll be able to make a run at it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT