NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: DODGERS VS BREWERS
October 17, 2018
Craig Counsell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Can you tell us about adding Zach Davies to the roster and sort of what the immediate thought is about using him?  I imagine you may need to use him today.  
CRAIG COUNSELL: Yeah, I mean we added -- Zach was under consideration kind of at the beginning of the series.  We've kept him, we feel like, prepared and going pretty good here.  And so today and for the rest of the series he's a length option, really.  Having been a starting pitcher, having started on the last week of the season, he's capable of throwing a lot of pitches.  There's certainly a chance he's in the game today.   
 Q.  At this point playoff emotions start to run a little higher, walk-off win, obviously the antics on the base path yesterday, some comments from your players.  How do you manage treating that as a positive for your team moving forward versus the opposite?  
CRAIG COUNSELL: Yeah, I mean, look, the game's played on the field.  And there's the after games, you know, talk, and stories and things like that.  But then when the game starts you go out and you compete, and that's what we'll do.  You don't need motivation for these games.  You don't.  Both teams are two games away from the World Series.  There's no motivation needed.  We're highly motivated.   
So you're ready to go.  We've got a big game today and looking forward to it.   
 Q.  Seems like kind of a long time ago, but what did you see from Freddy yesterday, especially taking into account he hadn't pitched for about three weeks and what that says about him going forward in these playoffs?  
CRAIG COUNSELL: Well, we got three great performances last night pitching-wise; Freddy, Corbin, and Junior Guerra were remarkable last night.  And I think as much as anything, Freddy's performance just gets us excited about the future.  When a 22-year-old can step into a situation like that and not just get through it but excel and handle himself so well, it gets you really excited for the future.  And then you follow that up with another homegrown product, young rookie pitcher that does the same thing, it gets you really excited.   
So those guys, again, another player for us stepping up and doing a tremendous job.  And I'm really proud of Freddy and happy for him.  It was his first shot.  He's been on the roster for a situation like that and he delivered.   
 Q.  Was Chase Anderson an option to replace Gio or was it a situation he hadn't thrown in too long?  
CRAIG COUNSELL: We talked about Chase.  He was definitely an option.  In the end I think it's been 30 days since he's been in a game and that was part of the factor, yes.   
 Q.  How did Josh come out of yesterday?  What would your thoughts be on a third day in a row, which he hasn't done, and just the general state of the rest of your guys as well?  
CRAIG COUNSELL: Yeah, I mean I haven't talked to everybody yet.  So we'll make that determination a little bit later in the day.  We had a rough game last night where you lose your starter in the first inning or the second inning and then you go 13 innings, that's going to put a lot on both bullpens.  But we'll get a little later in the day and we'll make those determinations.   
 Q.  Because there was a little bench-clearing thing last night and there were some inflammatory comments, are you expecting instructions from the umpires today about comportment?  You really can't afford a guy to be ejected early in the game.  Does that concern you in any way?  
CRAIG COUNSELL: I don't expect anything from the umpires is what I'd say, yeah.  I'm not concerned about that.  Umpires have, I think at least in our game, I think they've done a wonderful job of recognizing situations, that this is the playoffs and that emotions run a little higher in these games for players and managers and coaches.  I think they've done a wonderful job.   
 Q.  Would you have to say anything to Wade?  
CRAIG COUNSELL: No.   
 Q.  It seems like especially Cain and [inaudible] have been living in 0-2 counts.  Is part of the count in last night's case a lefty to try to be as aggressive and get a pitch?  You want them to work more with another lefty on the mound today?  
CRAIG COUNSELL: Well, if they're in 0-2 counts the pitcher is executing what he wants to do.  It's certainly not the hitter's plan to get an 0-2 count.  Their pitchers are doing a good job of getting ahead in counts.  That's what you're supposed to do.  That's what you want to do.   
I think in Lorenzo's case he needs to square up some baseballs.  And you can't do that by -- I understand from Lorenzo's perspective, you're not going to do that by just taking pitches.  You've got to square up some baseballs and have some good swings and that's what kind of triggers it.   
He hit a ball good last night, got robbed.  I think we're counting on players of that caliber that they're going to get out of it.  And that the hits are going to start coming and the hits are going to start falling.   
 Q.  For Wade and how much he relies on the cutter, have you seen any changes in hitters at all in terms of how they try to approach him or how that continues to be so effective for him, knowing that that's his go-to pitch?  
CRAIG COUNSELL: Yeah, I think, look, the hitters are reading the scouting report and they see the usage trends and percentages.  It's the first thing hitters look at.  But I think what Wade's done is you balance that with the other side of the plate, and soft stuff and hard stuff to the other side of the plate, it makes the hitter responsible for a lot.  The hitter is responsible for in and off and a pitch that goes in/off.  And he's responsible for the slow stuff away.  And that's hard for hitters to handle.   
And that's what good pitchers do.  They make you responsible for multiple places in the strike zone.  If they're not overpowering, you have to make the hitter responsible for multiple places in the strike zone, and that's what Wade has been really good at doing.   
 Q.  Considering how well Lorenzo and Christian set the table for you guys this year, are you surprised to the slower starts they're getting off to in the series?  
CRAIG COUNSELL: No, this is the game of baseball, man, we're four games into it.  And so that's what happens in four-game stretches.  You want every guy swinging the bat good.  We've gotten some unexpected performances and I think all around.  So that's just the way it rolls.   
I'm glad Lorenzo is leading off, and I'm glad Yeli is hitting second.  They'll do the same on Friday.  We're in a good spot with those two guys at the top.  You're just kind of waiting for something big to happen with them and I'm confident it will.   
 Q.  At this particular point in time can you say anything about your plan for Game 6, could it be Jhoulys short?  
CRAIG COUNSELL: We're just going to get through the game today and then we'll figure it out.  Nothing to announce.   
 Q.  In a game like last night which was so well played, really well managed by both sides, was there any decision that you made or didn't make that kept you up last night?  
CRAIG COUNSELL: Well, it was a 13-inning baseball game.  You're talking about hundreds of decisions.  So yeah, there's always stuff -- I think there was some stuff I thought maybe earlier to kind of force their hand with more pitching changes that I thought maybe could have given us more advantageous stuff later.   
Look, I debated how we chose to go after Bellinger instead of walking two guys and the bases loaded.  I still would do the same thing, but it's certainly something you debate in your head.  But I think anytime -- look, anytime we lose games my job is to reflect.  And so there's always going to be reflection after games.   
 Q.  Just some of the comments your players made on Machado.  Do you like that they care so much or do you worry that it will cloud their focus a little bit?  
CRAIG COUNSELL: No, no, man, that's what I'm saying is, look, it's Game 5 of the NLCS, man.  You say to yourself, Two games from the World Series.  That's all you've got to say.  The other stuff just washes away, man.  That's meaningless to me.   
We all want something to talk about and you guys do, too.  And that's great.  But, man, you know, there's easy terms to put this day in and these next four days in that would center on accomplishing your dreams, that make that other stuff really pretty meaningless, and able to worry about it at a different time.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT