NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: DODGERS VS BREWERS
October 16, 2018
Craig Counsell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Los Angeles - 2, Milwaukee - 1 (13)   
 Q.  Either way that was going to be a game where one team was really going to hurt to lose that game.  To come out on the wrong side, where does it leave your team, especially with using Josh and potentially not having him for tomorrow, and the Dodgers having Clayton Kershaw tomorrow?  
CRAIG COUNSELL: It's not about Josh.  We had to cover 13 innings of baseball.  So I think anytime you've got to cover 13 innings and there's a game the next day you're always worried about that.  And we'll have to kind of put our heads together and look at what we've got.  We've got some guys we've used quite a bit.  We were able to stay away from a couple of guys tonight.  But we're in a little bit of a tough spot, for sure.  And I think that's just the nature of a 13-inning game and losing your starter in the second inning.   
We got some incredible pitching performances tonight, Freddy and Junior, as well, were absolutely wonderful.  And really put us in a spot to give us some chances to try to put some runs on the board.   
 Q.  Is there a chance that you guys will do something with Gio and replace him with another player, especially after all the innings tonight?  
CRAIG COUNSELL: Yeah, there is, yeah.  He's got a high ankle sprain.  He's checking with the doctors now.  But it's likely we're going to have to replace him, yes.   
 Q.  In the 13th was walking Bellinger to face Grandal an option in your view?  
CRAIG COUNSELL: Yeah, well, it was from my view we were trying to expand on Cody Bellinger.  And with 3-2, we wouldn't have pitched to Grandal, either, we would have pitched -- the pitcher was after that.  It was expand and we expanded, we just left the pitch too much up to Bellinger.  If the at-bat would have got to -- I thought it was worth the risk of trying to expand to Bellinger, and if the at-bat goes to Grandal, we walk Grandal.   
 Q.  You didn't consider walking Bellinger?  
CRAIG COUNSELL: That would have been -- once we got to two strikes, if we had fell behind 1-0, then we went to 1-2, then it was expand, expand, expand, and we just got too much at the plate.  If we were going to walk Bellinger, we would walk Grandal right away and load the bases, yeah.   
 Q.  Two things:  How did you see the play with Machado at first base?  And given that, combined with the slides, do you think he's going to beyond the grounds of playing hard?  
CRAIG COUNSELL: I don't know.  I guess they got tangled up at first base.  I don't think he's playing all that hard.   
 Q.  Throughout this season there have been points where Cain and Yelich go through peaks and valleys.  It seems right now both of them are searching for it a little bit.  Is that something that needs to change going forward in the series just to try to get the offense going?  
CRAIG COUNSELL: Yeah, I mean for me offense just in general, I think we could -- there's a bunch of guys we need offense from.  We've got some good contributions from guys at the bottom.  But I think a bunch of guys are not really on it right now offensively.   
I don't think I'd single those two guys out, I think there's a bunch of guys we need to get going, and we will.  I think good players will get good offense going and we're going to need it and I expect it to happen.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT