NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: DODGERS VS BREWERS
October 15, 2018
Craig Counsell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Milwaukee - 4, Los Angeles - 0
Q. A whole lots been made of the bullpen, but your starting pitchers have played well.  Do you think a chip on the shoulder may not be the right term, but it showed we can play, as well?
CRAIG COUNSELL: Yeah, I think, Jhoulys was just outstanding tonight.  He made big pitches.  The strikeout to Grandal was a huge pitch.  The last, let's see, four times we've given him the ball it's just been a big-time performance each and every time.
So our guys that we're giving the ball to at the start of the game, they're doing a heck of a job, man.  And they're setting the tone really for games.  They're putting us in a good position.  They're putting us in a very advantageous position to use our guys in the bullpen.  And then that's going to lead to wins.
Q. Who's your Game 4 starter?
CRAIG COUNSELL: Gio Gonzalez.
Q. When you guys make decisions on your starting pitching, does it come in a group form?  Is it you and your pitching coach?  How do you guys in your organization do this?
CRAIG COUNSELL: Yeah, it's conversation with Derek Johnson, our pitching coach, with David, our general manager, and we kind of -- we laid out some scenarios, kind of going into today's game, what the possibilities were for tomorrow.  And if we got a good start and we're in good shape, Gio was always going to be the guy.
Q. When you go up by four in the 7th, was there any thought trying to stay away from Jeffress or Hader tonight?
CRAIG COUNSELL: Yeah, there certainly was a thought.  I think, really, it's at some point the other team is pretty good and you respect their hitters on their team.  And I thought getting Pederson and Muncy out of the game for pinch-hitters with Josh was a good way to get outs.  Josh did limited work tonight.  J.J. finished it off.
So we feel like we're in really good shape.  Corey got five outs in 19 pitches, which is important for us.  So we feel like -- we're trying to win the series.  We're not just trying to win games here, we're trying to win the series.  We've put ourselves in games 4 and 5 with tonight's effort.
Q. Just with Hader going such a limited time, what's his availability for tomorrow?
CRAIG COUNSELL: You know, we'll always check on it and see how he feels and everything, but obviously the part of taking him out of the game was to have him available for games 4 and 5 if we need him.
Q. When you came out to talk to the umpires after Machado's first slide into second, what was that?
CRAIG COUNSELL: I wanted to see what Jim saw on the slide there.  Sometimes I think especially -- particularly on that play you can get some -- the umpire can kind of let you know what he sees in the play.  And that can kind of guide you as to whether -- what the guys in New York will think, as well.
So a big thing was that he said Orlando didn't try to make a throw on that play and that is a factor in whether they will consider an illegal slide if the guy doesn't attempt to finish the double play.
Q. Did that conversation inform your decision the next time?
CRAIG COUNSELL: Well, the next time he did try to complete it.  And we made a throw to first.  And Machado was past the bag on the slide, and so we checked it immediately.  And our guys in the replay room did a nice job being aggressive with the call.
Q. Did you consider Hader for the 9th, as well, even though it was a four-run lead?
CRAIG COUNSELL: Yeah, for sure.  That's the debate, you know.  That's the debate for sure.  And we got Jeremy Jeffress who has been an All-Star this year and pitched huge, huge moments for us during the season.  We got a four-run lead.  I trust him to get those outs.  The ninth inning was entertaining (laughter). But they didn't score.
Q. Orlando Arcia, not too much power during the regular season, you saw what he's done the last couple of weeks.  Can you talk a little bit about that?
CRAIG COUNSELL: Yeah, I think for Orlando it started in Game 163 against the Cubs.  He gets four hits that day.  And Orlando has always been a guy that you want to put a moment on him, put pressure on him.  Put a big moment on him.  Put the spotlight on him.  He loves it.  And I'm not surprised that he's thriving in playoff atmosphere.  He has this love and he's wired the right way for this kind of baseball.
The home runs are probably surprising.  The fact that he's playing at a really high level throughout the playoffs, not surprising.
Q. Orlando was optioned twice this year.  What did you guys want him to learn from that experience and just if you can talk about his journey from then to now?
CRAIG COUNSELL: Yeah, I think for Orlando the consistency is what he's after.  But like I said, the big game performances, we knew they were in there.  His defense has meant so much to our pitching staff.  And that's been consistent no matter how the offense has gone, the defense has been elite and really special.  But we're searching for consistency always and just being a tough out every single day.  And really, since his recall and basically August 1st, he's been a tough out and been that consistent guy.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT