NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: DODGERS VS BREWERS
October 12, 2018
Craig Counsell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Milwaukee - 6, Los Angeles - 5
Q. Craig, it was a little bit of a quiet start there for a couple of innings, and then it looked like Woody's home run just kind of got things electrified.  How stunning was that?  We've seen him hit a home run before, but Clayton Kershaw, that's a little bit top of the scale.
CRAIG COUNSELL: Yeah, Woody is a good hitter, and that's part of his game and I was hoping he was the guy -- I was hoping he was the guy that was going to get the at-bat today.  Just kind of depended how it worked out, and it ended up being him.  But still, I mean, two strikes and you're really not expecting much, and he laid off the curveball and got a pitch to hit.  So it definitely changed the vibe for sure.
Q. As far as the availability of some of your pitchers is concerned, when might we see Gio again?  When might we see Hader again, and do you plan to make Chacin available out of the pen tomorrow?
CRAIG COUNSELL: Well, you won't see Josh tomorrow, for sure.  I mean, he's got two days off and then he'll be good to go.  You know, everybody else we're good with.  We're in good shape tomorrow.  Corbin Burnes did not pitch today and was not up.  So we're in good shape.  We got possibilities, a lot of possibilities for tomorrow, so good stuff.
Q. Jhoulys?
CRAIG COUNSELL: Yeah.  Jhoulys is -- everybody's a possibility that's available.  That's what I'd say.
Q. What, Craig, did you consider best-case scenario for that at-bat by Brandon?  And also watching him go around, I imagine there's excitement when you hit a home run, and I don't know what the next level up is, but how would you describe it?
CRAIG COUNSELL: Yeah.  That was the next level up.  I've never seen Brandon like that.  To make it the first run your team scores in the NLCS and a homer off Clayton Kershaw, that's how you should run around the bases.  That's exactly how you should run around the bases.  The thing is is it just fired everybody up.  The crowd went crazy.  And our dugout, it certainly changed the energy in our dugout from what you think is going to be kind of a grinded-out game against Clayton.  And then when that happens, it gives everybody life.
Q. Craig, it's a completely different game from most of your games.  You had a lot of production from the bottom of your order.  Four of your six runs came from the last three spots.  Can you talk a little about your offense tonight?
CRAIG COUNSELL: Yeah, this is similar to Game 2 of the Division Series where we got a lot of production at the bottom of the order and some good at-bats.  Manny Pina had really nice at-bats tonight.  I thought some of his at-bats were really important the way he did it.  Arcia obviously had a big hit and then Domingo's pinch-hit was huge.  Arcia comes up with a hit, double, and then we got a really good spot for Domingo right there, exactly the kind of spot that we're looking for.  So he jumped on a first pitch, and that was a big key to the game for sure.
So, look, that's how good offenses roll.  You gotta get production.  On some nights, you have to have production from different people.  Tonight Manny and O and the pinch hitters, if you count Woody as a pinch hitter, did a heck of a job.
Q. Craig, with this potentially being a seven-game series, was there any thought to use fewer pitchers tonight with a five-run lead or to push Josh a little less or just how did that play out for you?
CRAIG COUNSELL: Yeah.  I thought there was a scenario kind of after Josh got three innings where we could avoid Corey tonight and have him available for something longer tomorrow, but it just didn't work out.  They battled back and made it tough on us, as we expected.  So they had a really good 8th inning with some big hits.  So we couldn't get through it and we had to use our guys.
But I threw Josh out there because he was throwing the ball really well, and I thought once he had two innings he was down for tomorrow anyway, and so he's got two days off now and he'll be ready to go again.
Q. Craig, we talk a lot about how when you're playing good you get breaks, that catcher's interference, Freese just robbed Aggy of a hit?
CRAIG COUNSELL: Well, it might have been over the fence.  The ball was hit really hard.  It could have been hit a lot harder.
Q. Was almost one time through the order the plan for Gio or did you see something in there?
CRAIG COUNSELL: No.  That was the plan we had talked about, and Gio knew what was going to happen.  So that was the plan.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT