NL DIVISION SERIES: CARDINALS v DIAMONDBACKS
October 12, 2001
Craig Counsell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Craig, talk about the at-bat when you had the home run?
 
CRAIG COUNSELL: He started me out with a couple of sliders for balls,  I wanted to see a fastball.  He threw the next 2-0 fastball for the strike.  It was 3-1, and I knew he was going to come after me.  Gonzo is on deck, he doesn't want to walk me.  So I just tried to be aggressive thinking I was going to get a real good pitch with Gonzalez up next. 
 
Q.  You've had some big moments in postseason with Florida.  Can you compare this and what you were thinking about circling the bases tonight?
 
CRAIG COUNSELL: Well, it was a great feeling, I don't know if  -- it's not the World Series, but you know it was a big hit for us.  It was a huge hit for us, so it's right there.  It was one of my top two thrills, I'll give you that. 
 
Q.  Did you know it was gone immediately?  You didn't raise your arms until you went around first base.
 
CRAIG COUNSELL: I don't think I hit any no-doubters.  I just wanted to make sure.  I thought I got it pretty good, but I guess just seeing it going in the seats, that let out some emotion. 
 
Q.  How nervous were you playing in the field in the 8th and 9th with all that was going on ?
 
CRAIG COUNSELL: Well, I mean, I don't know if I was nervous.  I think it was fun.  I mean, it was  -- you know it was great baseball.  The bottom of the 9th inning, I went up to Kerry Robinson who was on 2nd, I said, You've got two men on and big Mac is up in the 9th inning.  It was a great baseball game.  I think it was  -- I don't know if I was nervous  -- I think fun is the word.  It's fun. 
 
Q.  Craig, you have come through in clutch situations all year.  Any explanations why you seem to perform well in those situations?
 
CRAIG COUNSELL: I don't know  -- I don't think so, to be honest with you.  The big thing is, the first postseason I was in I had some success.  I've had success in these situations before, and I think it just makes it easier when you get to the situation again because you've had success and you've been there and you've seen what it's like.  I think that if anything has been the reason  -- you know it gives you confidence, any time you have success in a situation, you're going to have confidence the next time you do it. 
 
Q.  When you were released by the Dodgers in '99 where did you think your career was at that point and how did you rebuild it?
 
CRAIG COUNSELL: Well, it wasn't good.  I got released in spring training in 2000, and there was no big league jobs out there for me.  I knew I had to go back to the minor leagues, but Joe Garagiola gave me a good opportunity.  Up until then I was a 2nd baseman and he gave me an opportunity to play 2nd, short, and 3rd.  And I think more than anything, that's the thing that got me back to the big leagues and has made it able for Bob to use me in different positions and get me on the field more.  And I think that more than anything, becoming a utility man and being able to play more positions helped me.  
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT