NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: DODGERS VS BREWERS
October 20, 2018
Craig Counsell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Los Angeles - 5, Milwaukee - 1
Q. What was your view of Taylor's catch when he caught it?  It had a huge impact after that.
CRAIG COUNSELL: Yeah, that was a great catch, I think your first glance kind of at it I didn't think he was going to catch it.  He covered a ton of ground.  That was what was just so impressive is the ground he covered.  I felt like the ball was really hit hard.  There was a gap where the ball is going and where he is, and he made a wonderful catch.  And it was a huge play, obviously, the game is tied.
I think the energy comes back in the park.  And we had a hard time getting anything going today, more than one runner on a base in an inning, just couldn't get it going.  Buehler did a nice job.
Q. Because of that it was the opposite of last night, you're behind, the energy is so hard to come from both the stands and the team.  You flipped the script a little bit.
CRAIG COUNSELL: Yeah, they pitched well.  That was the bottom line is they pitched well and they didn't let us get anything going.  I talked before the game about multiple baserunners.  We did get some lead-off guys on.  But I don't know if there was an inning where we had multiple baserunners on.  I guess the second we had two guys on.
We weren't able to put together rallies, multiple hits, and get things going.  And credit to them for how they pitched tonight.
Q. You obviously would have liked to have had Chacin go deeper.  Did he not have stuff you wanted him to have?  Was it just situational?
CRAIG COUNSELL: I guess I would say because you're looking at the game as a nine-inning season, and we were losing the game at that point, and so we had to go to our best guy.  And we had to try to keep the game there as long as we could.  We did.  We weren't able to score, unfortunately.  We had pitching for the game.  We didn't need length from Jhoulys today, that's not necessarily what we needed.  Obviously it always helps.  But as you can see how the game kind of manifested, we didn't need the length, necessarily.
So it just to me it was with the two lefties at the top of the order there it was time for Josh.
Q. I know it's difficult just minutes after a loss, but can you talk about the progress this team made and the steps you guys made this season.
CRAIG COUNSELL: Well, yeah, I mean we won 96 games -- 95 games in the regular season.  We won our division.  We finished one game from the World Series.  In a lot of ways there's another series after this we'd like to be playing in.  But you do this again and you put yourselves in these situations again, that's all you can ask.
This team, what I just told them is that they took us on an amazing journey.  They really did.  They took us on an incredible journey that we should all be grateful for being able to see because it was a magical run, especially in the month of September and into October.  In Pittsburgh on was absolutely incredible how the team played and answered every tough situation they were in.
Q. After a brilliant All-Star season, J.J. kind of, offseason, he had some good performances, but some tough ones, too.  That Puig home was kind of like the dagger tonight.  It was hard to come back 5-1 with their pitching.  Do you think he got tired?
CRAIG COUNSELL: I don't have the perfect answer for you.  Tonight I thought both hits were on some breaking balls that just didn't have the good bite to them that they needed to have.  This guy got outs better than anybody in the National League out of the bullpen this year.  He was wonderful.  And the playoffs did not go well for him.
He had some big moments for us, though, I'll say that.  With the two-inning save against Colorado was a huge moment.  Today was just a couple of breaking balls that he left up in the zone.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT