SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 29, 2016
John DalCorobbo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Take me through first of all the preparation of getting ready for today's round, what it meant to you and just how did you manage your emotions?
JOHN DAL COROBBO: Well, I woke up and went fishing.
(Laughter.)
Honest.
Q. What time?
JOHN DAL COROBBO: We were down at the lake about 9:15.  So, we just went fishing.  That took the dogs down and the kids went down and we all and then just came back to where we're staying.  It was just, and all I could think about was I need to stay where I am right now.  This is a big deal, I need to just I need to just stay with the process.  I need to, every shot be treated like it is just another shot.
Then, when I got on the range, the first thing Brian said to me, my caddie, Brian said, let's just go play John Dal Corobbo golf, let's just try to play, shoot the lowest score we can on this golf course today.  That was kind of our mantra all week.
So, here I am right now and I'm so grateful and thankful.  Unbelievable.
Q. A little struggle in the middle of round but you got things steady by the time you got to 12 or 13.
JOHN DAL COROBBO: Yeah, 7 and, 7 doesn't sit well with me for some reason.  It's like I can't commit to a line on that tee shot.  But I had a kind of a goofy 3-putt and then I made a bogey.
But birdieing 9 was good.
Then it was just the whole day was just about, hey, let's hit it on the green and get a look, hit it on the green and get a look for birdie.  And Brian did a really good job.
I had kind of a weird bunker shot on 12.  There was a divot behind the ball and but I'm so thankful, everyone here in bent hash, whirlpool, Jeff Fettig, everyone at Whirlpool and KitchenAid are just wonderful, it's a wonderful event and I'm just really excited.  So, so super happy to have my family and friends here and to finish where I did.  It's great.
Q. When you think about what the responsibilities back home and you had someone obviously handling the responsibilities back home on the biggest week of the year at the Brickyard Classic.
JOHN DAL COROBBO: Yeah, well we're a well oiled machine at Brickyard Crossing.  So if we're one man down we got enough staff to kind of handle it.
But the most exciting thing is probably going home, after the 500, and now the Speedway crew and everyone at the Brickyard Crossing, we got another celebration coming up.  We have been, they have been celebrating without me for a week and now I get to go home and we're going to have another celebration.  So it will be super fun.
Q. The hottest question is, what will this change for your career?
JOHN DAL COROBBO: Wow, right now, it's just I'm going to enjoy where I am and then we'll kind of look at it.  I think that maybe I have the skill set to play with the best players on the Champions Tour, so we'll go home and we're going to celebrate the next few days and then we'll evaluate it and then kind of go from there.
Q. We obviously heard you inside when we talked about that number, Wargo got to 11-under on his way to a finish ever 13.  But no one had ever been to 11 other than you and Wargo.  So that's a good accomplishment.
JOHN DAL COROBBO: Yeah, I am so, like I want, did not want to finish any lower than that today.  And that was, you know, internally, you don't let people know what's going on, but, man, when I got a couple bogeys early and then to get it to 11 and finish at 11 and make a really hard putt on the last, that was good.
So, I'm super happy and probably one of the highlights of the week was meeting Mr. Wargo and everyone at the Champion's Dinner.  So that was great.
Q. Where were you in 1993?
JOHN DAL COROBBO: 1993, I was still an assistant in Chicago, Illinois.  I won the Assistants Championship and that gave me the stage two exemption and I got through in a playoff and then went and played web.com or Nike TOUR in 1994.
Q. Did you actually watch Tom when he won that title?
JOHN DAL COROBBO: You know, I probably did, because I was a golf nut.  But, yeah, I mean and he was in Florida, about the same time I was, all those years, so it's pretty special to get to a number that such a great player has been at.
Q. You got a great prize and KitchenAid took care of you today as well.
JOHN DAL COROBBO: Yeah, unbelievable.  Mr. Fettig, you know, Whirlpool, KitchenAid, unbelievable.  I'm so excited.  It's one of the greatest experiences of my life and to share it with friends and family and do it in front of all these great people is just wonderful.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT