SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 28, 2016
John DalCorobbo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Both you and Jeff have set the bar high this week and you're looking at it like it's nothing that you can't accomplish.  Is that the way that you've been safely say that you've been able to get as high as you have and shoot as high as you can?
JOHN DAL COROBBO: Well, I think that, internally, we all believe that if we control ourselves and do the things that we do, we should be able to play at that level.
If I control my mental routine, I control the targets that I pick and pick and choose when we go and try and attack and then kind of shy away, yeah, I think things could work out.  So, again, I mean, if I, if I do what I do, it should be okay.  We got one more day and hopefully everything works out.
Q. What you've been doing, obviously with the obligations back home at Speedway, Indiana and so forth and everything going on with the race, you've been able to shut some of that off and be able to concentrate on golf?
JOHN DAL COROBBO: I don't know, maybe I have a good knack of compartmentalizing events in my life.  I get to be done with this and I get to go be a dad.  I get to go share the emotions of the day with my family, which is pretty special.  Get to go through, do some fishing in Lake Michigan and so that should be fun.
Q. Take me through the last putt and then one last question after that.
JOHN DAL COROBBO: Yeah, we had 42 feet up the hill, breaking right-to-left.  It's always tough to judge the up and overs, it was up a pretty good percent slope and then once it got to the top of the crown it was breaking left and so I hit a pretty good read on it in the beginning and Brian helped me, my caddie, and we increased the break a couple inches and hit it well and it went in.  So pretty good.
Q. Did the preparation with the victory in California last fall set a little different tempo in your game, do you think that you are accomplishing more things because of that?
JOHN DAL COROBBO: I think what it does is it gives me the internal awareness that I can handle stuff like that.  So, again, it's still another day, still got to do the same things, I've got to control me.  That's really all I can control.  My thoughts, my emotions, the target.  So my mental routine, I'll try and do that tomorrow.
Q. What's it like all week end to be in the hunt here?
JOHN DAL COROBBO: Well, I got to wear a pretty cool shirt tomorrow.  I get to wear the 100th running of the Indianapolis 500.
So, when my boss gave me that shirt he says, you know, hey, DC, this is what you get to wear on Sunday up at Benton Harbor.  And I go, yeah, this is a good one.  So I had that shirt ready, so it's coming out tomorrow, it will be fun.
Q. How amazing has this experience been?
JOHN DAL COROBBO: It's just great.  To have a lot of friends and family here, my wife and my kids and all my friends from back home, it's really special.  It's good.
Q. Are you ready for another hot lap?
JOHN DAL COROBBO: Yeah, another hot lap.  Let's do it.  One more.  I got one more.
Q. How much did the wind kind of effect your strategy today?
JOHN DAL COROBBO: It's just part of dealing with it.  It's kind of the front nine was hard.  It was difficult.  I'll tell you, 7 and 8 wasn't fun.  And the scores reflect it.  I made a really good putt for bogey on 8.  I made a really good one.
Q. How long?
JOHN DAL COROBBO: I think 18 feet down the hill.  We hit that putt a bunch in the practice rounds and I wanted to play more break, but he reminded me it was straight.  That went in and got to 9 and said, let's just move on.  So, control it and move on.  So it was good.
I was in a bad spot on 7 and 8 and made a good shot on 9.
And then, it's kind of weird, 10, 11, 12, my right eye contact got all blurry.  So 10, 11, 12, the shot I hit on 12 really close was like my right eye was still kind of blurry.  So I put on Brian's sunglasses for the rest of the day.
Q. It worked.
JOHN DAL COROBBO: Yeah, it kind of got better.  I made it through I missed a short one for on the par-3 and then played, hit some really solid shots coming down the stretch, so excited.  It's good.
Q. What about that putt on 18?
JOHN DAL COROBBO: Yeah, 42 feet.  How about that.  Up and over.
Q. Easy birdie, right?
JOHN DAL COROBBO: Get those at the Brickyard all the time.
Q. You like that hole.
JOHN DAL COROBBO: Yeah, it's been good to me.  Thank you.  Yeah.  And the fairway bunker, I just couldn't feel like I could aim it far enough left, so off the tee, but I'll take it.  It's good.  I got one more day, I'm going to go home, do some fishing, I'm going to go enjoy the rest of the day with my family and it will be great.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT