SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 27, 2016
John DalCorobbo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How do you put the words what these last two days have meant and your ability to hold yourself together with these rounds?  
JOHN DAL COROBBO: Yeah, it's pretty special.  I just kept trying to stay with each shot, treating it like it was.  It seems so cliche, but all I tried to do was just treat everything and just have really good acceptance for what happened and I can't say enough for what Brian Brodell has done the last couple days.  It's been really fun.  The pairing with Scott McCarron and Miguel Angel Martin was pretty fun, too.  So they're great guys.   
 Q.  Tell me about Brian Brodell.  
JOHN DAL COROBBO: He's been a good friend for awhile.  If anyone, he's caddied more for me, ever.  He probably knows me better than I know myself.  But he really did a nice job.  A lot of it was his help, for sure.   
 Q.  That's B R O D E L L?  
JOHN DAL COROBBO: Yes.   
 Q.  And he is from?  
JOHN DAL COROBBO: He is a PGA member at Mistwood Golf Club.  Romeoville, Illinois.   
 Q.  Take me through just what you call the highlights of the round today.  Obviously, you had birdie at the end that was terrific, so.  
JOHN DAL COROBBO: Yeah, I birdied 10.   
Made a long putt on 11.   
And then really didn't hit it all that well.  And I kind of got it done, scraped it around and really made some really good par saves.  Six, seven footers today.   
I got some good up-and-downs.  Holed it out on 1 for, pitched it in from 18 yards, just off the front of the green, after driving it in the rough.   
And then kind of hit it okay on 2 and 3.   
Then 4, made another really good up-and-down.   
5, right in my back swing, one of the vehicles closed a door and I didn't hit it good.  And then hit it on the green and 3-putted.  That was really the worst putt I hit.   
 Q.  That's the par-5?  
JOHN DAL COROBBO: Yeah.   
But then it got really tough.  6, 7, 8, the -- and the tee shot on 9 -- the wind was unbelievably blowing.   
I mean, I hit it okay on 8 and it went nowhere.  And I had 190 to that flag.  And 190 uphill into the wind.  So I got it on front part of the green and made a really good 2-putt.   
 Q.  Take me through the 9th hole, which is your 18th hole.  
JOHN DAL COROBBO: 9, normally the line is kind of over the bunker right and Brian was making the prudent play, the ball was kind of going short, and I hit and finally hit one halfway decent and got in the fairway bunker.  And now, now the -- so I laid it out with a 9-iron and then hit an 8-iron in there three feet and it managed to go in.  So it was a great finish.   
 Q.  Especially with that wind change and everything, these changes out here can happen at any time, they tell me.  
JOHN DAL COROBBO: Yeah, I hit a really pretty good tee shot on 7 for me and then it went -- and then ripped a full 195 yard shot in there.  So it was good.   
 Q.  Did you accomplish a couple goals already, not only just the weekend but certainly positioning yourself.  
JOHN DAL COROBBO: Yeah, obviously, today was like in the back of your mind you don't know, is the inevitable going to happen, am I going to do something totally irrelevant and, like my wife says, be stupid.   
But I hung in there, hit it good enough in spots and recovered well and made some really good par saves.   
So, hopefully, tomorrow I can improve on things and just enjoy playing golf on the weekend.  Another couple rounds.   
And I can't wait to call work and find out how Carb Day was though, I can tell you that.  How the Journey concert was.  And tomorrow is another big day at the IMS, so my heart's there and it's here and it's in a bunch of different places.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT