SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 26, 2016
John DalCorobbo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Chance to settle down a little bit and think about where you started and how do you put it in perspective for you today?
JOHN DAL COROBBO: For not playing in a competitive event for quite some time, I think that the focus really the plan was to not so much to score, but can I handle my mental routine and stay within that.
So for the most part I think I did a good job.  I hit a tremendous shot on 18 and a lot of that is luck, but I hit some good shots during the day and really happy about that.
Q. On 18, walk me through that one.
JOHN DAL COROBBO: Drove it in the fairway, had 147 and thinking that was probably more like 150.  So, with the wind direction and the lie, I thought that 9-iron was the play.  And I tried to hit it in the air and I was just happy it was going to get on that level where the pin was, so I can kind of maybe find a way to 2-putt it and just not lose any shots.  And then it goes in.  So, nice end to a good start for the first day of the tournament.
Q. When is the last time in a big event that you've had a good round?  Can you help me out with that.  Would it be in California?
JOHN DAL COROBBO: Yeah, I think the final round in California, maybe I started really shaky, but I would say from the last 10 holes in California was as good as I could hit it.
Q. That was on the Senior PGA Professional Championship.
JOHN DAL COROBBO: Yeah, and round one was pretty good, but this is, to do it at this venue, in this situation, obviously it's very, very happy and very pleased.
Q. You're comfortable off the tee I think you mentioned the other day.
JOHN DAL COROBBO: Yeah, the sight lines and the distances that you need to drive the ball, I can play the golf course.  It's not like where you have to be -- length is an advantage here, but not so much at times.  So that my tee shot goes, it puts me in positions where I can have adequate chances to get the ball on the green and control the shot.
Q. We consider where your home facility is and we put the analogy as the hot lap.  So it's a good way to start.  But you know it's a long race, right?
JOHN DAL COROBBO: Hot lap.  It is.  It is.  I'm just going to do a little work this afternoon and get back to where we're staying, which is kind of by Lake Michigan and kind of just relax the rest of the day and just save some energy.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT