UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS AT SAN ANTONIO FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 29, 2018
Cordale Grundy
Josiah Tauaefa
Greg Campbell Jr.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








UTSA - 30, UTEP - 21
Q. Cordale, you threw the football 35 times today.  Did you guys go into the game saying we're going to throw the football 35 times?  It had to be fun for you, though, I would think.
CORDALE GRUNDY: Yeah, it was definitely fun.  We went into this game trying to open it up, open up our offense and execute and start fast.
Q. Josiah, first time in quite a while that you guys have won two in a row.  How does that feel?
JOSIAH TAUAEFA: It's awesome.  It's huge for our team, especially to open up conference 1-0 because these are the games that -- not that the first three or four didn't matter, but this is where it matters the most, in conference, and right now we're 1-0, so that's exactly where we wanted to be coming into this week, and moving forward we're looking to keep strong.
Q. Greg, you had another big game with a bunch of catches.  Can you just talk about how your role has expanded with this offense?
GREG CAMPBELL JR.: I just think my number is being called and I'm answering the bell.  Cordale did a good job of finding me today, and I just want to make plays when my name is called.
Q. Cordale, Coach was just in here and he was talking about the running game, and he said he wasn't too pleased as far as the push you didn't get up front.  You guys usually run the ball pretty well, but you only had 91 tonight and they out-rushed you.  How concerned are you about that?
CORDALE GRUNDY: Not really too much concerned.  We didn't run the ball as effectively as I wanted to, but I definitely know our guys will bounce back, so I'm not too concerned about it, but I know we'll get better.
Q. Josiah, I wanted to ask you one other thing about a couple of your teammates.  Andy Martel made another -- probably a long line of plays on special teams today, recovered that fumble down there, got you in position to score.  Clayton got his second interception in two games.  I wanted to ask you about those two guys, what they bring to the team and what those two turnovers did for y'all tonight.
JOSIAH TAUAEFA: Anytime we can turn the ball over it's a huge momentum shift at any point in the game, but especially when we think we're about to have to go back on defense, and he muffs the punt and we fall on top of it, we come away with it, that just sparks something within the team, and the offense was able to get points on the board.
Those two guys specifically have been huge these past couple weeks in terms of special teams play.  Clayton getting to -- you said it's the second interception, right?  So those transfers are crucial.  Special teams play is always important in terms of field position, setting up our offense to have success and setting up our defense to get off the field quicker.
Q. Cordale, I wanted to ask you about your touchdown pass to Tykee; the second week in a row you kind of just found him in the end zone.  Can you just talk about the connection that you and him have and specifically what you saw on that pass play?
CORDALE GRUNDY: Tykee ran a great route and he was wide open, he set the defender up and I was able outside of him.  He made a great catch.  I just told him to go.  So we had a good connection in the red zone.  I think he played well tonight.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT