NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: GRIZZLIES v SPURS
May 20, 2013
Lionel Hollins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Do you feel it's more about adjustments or execution?  
LIONEL HOLLINS:   It's both.   We have to make some adjustments defensively and offensively, but we also have to execute better.   We found out it wasn't as bad as it looked.   There was a lot of just out of position playing with hyper speed and doing things that we don't normally do because of the moment and not just playing the game the way we're supposed to play.   I think they saw it and see that, yeah, that's not me, that was supposed to be somebody else.   They have five guys running to the basket and leaving guys open at the three‑point line.   
   
 Q.   If you could put your finger on one reason why your team has bounced back so well this year, what do you think it would be?  
LIONEL HOLLINS:   I've been asked that question about 10 or 15 times this year, and the same answer:   That's what you do when you play sports.   That's what you do in life.   Every time you have a bad moment you've got to bounce back and get up and go again.   You have a bad day, you've got to get up the next morning and go make it a good day.   Every team has lost games that hurt really bad.   They've lost one‑point buzzer beaters, all of those type of things, and if you're going to be in life and live, you've got to get up and go do it again and try to be better.   
   
 Q.   If you do your best and a team is better, you live with it and sleep well at night; that wasn't what happened, though, yesterday‑‑  
LIONEL HOLLINS:   I still slept well, but I'm not happy.   
   
 Q.   When you say running around, do you think it was a product of people trying to do too much?  
LIONEL HOLLINS:   Oh, no question, no question.   We weren't really ourselves.   We were hyped‑‑ when you get to this point and you look at the crowd, all the people that are snapping your picture and talking to you and asking you questions and going through interviews and national TV, national radio and everything, that's what happens.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT