NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: GRIZZLIES v SPURS
May 19, 2013
Lionel Hollins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.   Two‑part question:   Can you pinpoint the specifics that you attribute this loss to and can you comment on the ineffectiveness of Randolph tonight? 
LIONEL HOLLINS:   Well, first of all, they played better than us in every area, and that included fronting the post and keeping us from going inside as much as we wanted to.   So that answers both questions. 

Q.   You talked before the game about trying to limit your turnovers to 10 for the entire game, and right out of the gate you had four quick ones in the first quarter.   What do you think happened out of the gate? 
LIONEL HOLLINS:   We just didn't play well.   I mean, it's not anything specific.   It's just that we were running too fast, missing lay‑ups.   We were taking bad shots.   And our defense was really awful.   The Spurs played well. 

Q.   How challenging is it, though, when your lead scorer, he's averaging 19.7 points during the Playoffs, can't get any points on the boards?
LIONEL HOLLINS:   Well, obviously it hurt us because we only scored 83, so we do need him to score a little bit.   But we need other people to score and play well.   Mike didn't play as well as he's been playing, Marc also didn't play as well. 

Q.   In the second and third quarter you found a way to get offensive rebounds but you couldn't convert those second‑chance opportunities.   Was it just lack of execution? 
LIONEL HOLLINS:   When you're right at the basket and you miss lay‑ups, San Antonio had nothing to do with that. 

Q.   In the third quarter you got three quick threes from Quincy.   How important is his scoring going to be?
LIONEL HOLLINS:   Well, it's going to be important for a number of people to step up and make shots if they're going to pack it up and try to front the post as much as they did, we have to try to make shots with our perimeter people that are capable of making them.   I thought Quincy and Mike and Jerryd Bayless didn't shoot the ball as well as they normally shoot the ball.   Like I said, the first thing I said, San Antonio played extremely well and we did not, and that included making shots, that included second and third effort, diving on the floor, getting loose balls, rebounding, every area we didn't play as well.   And we have to play better if we expect to be in this series.   If we don't, we won't be.

Q.   What do you think led to the defensive breakdowns that allowed them to get so many wide‑open looks from the outside?
LIONEL HOLLINS:   Well, Tony Parker came out really aggressive in the pick‑and‑rolls.   We weren't up where we were supposed to be, and he just beat us sometimes.   When Bonner came in the game, he was set a screen and dragged somebody away and we never got back, and the main thing, we just over‑helped.   We were just so hyper just running all over the place on defense.   We'd have four guys in the paint and nobody would be out on the perimeter guarding anybody, and that's not how we play defense. 

Q.   Is part of the conversation in the locker room, you've lost the first game of the first two series already, we've been here before so we can come back from this?
LIONEL HOLLINS:   I didn't even mention that.   I had other things to talk about that were more important and more relevant than what we did in the first two series. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT