NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: GRIZZLIES v SPURS
May 25, 2013
Lionel Hollins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What's the big adjustment we're looking for in game 3?  
LIONEL HOLLINS:   Just try to play better.   I thought the second half and especially toward the end of the third quarter and into the fourth quarter we played much better.   We just have to go back to being us.  
   
 Q.   When you've looked at the starts of the first two games, what do you see that went wrong for you?  
LIONEL HOLLINS:   Walking the ball up court and not really pressuring them offensively like we need to.   
   
 Q.   Why does that happen?   
LIONEL HOLLINS:   We've done it all year long.  
   
 Q.   You've got to get‑‑  
LIONEL HOLLINS:   We've got to get out of the gate.   We've been in a lot of games where we've been down 10, 12 points early.   By the end of the quarter we're down four or five or tied or something like that.   Sometimes it takes us into the second quarter to‑‑ but San Antonio is too good of a team to get off to those slow starts.   It's such a huge hole to get out of every game.   
   
 Q.   After Game 1 I think you talked about the team being over‑hyped coming out of the gate.   Being at home down 0‑2 is there any thought in your mind that maybe they'll come out too hyped up again?  
LIONEL HOLLINS:   I think we're into the series now.   It's just getting into a new series.   I think we're back to normal in terms of our excitement and everything.   
   
 Q.   Anything change from this morning until now?   
LIONEL HOLLINS:   Not that I know of unless I go in there and somebody tells me something's wrong with somebody, but no, everything is good.   I will tell you we're going to activate Donte Greene and deactivate Austin Daye, just so you know that.  
   
 Q.   What's the main‑‑  
LIONEL HOLLINS:   Maybe I'll put him in the game.   I wasn't putting the other guy in the game, maybe I'll put this guy in the game.  
   
 Q.   Have you been able to figure him out much?  
LIONEL HOLLINS:   No, we really haven't.   We were at the end of the season and we're going into the playoffs and we're at a point where we weren't really practicing, but lately we've practiced more, especially in this series with the long layoffs, and just see what happens.   A little more aggressive, bigger physically.   I can't guarantee I'll put him in the game, but at least he's there ready.   
   
 Q.   Has it been harder to tune out all of the hype and everything around this series and the excitement in the city for the team, and how do you manage that with your team?  
LIONEL HOLLINS:   I mean, I just talk about it every day, tell them to keep being us, keep being us and not listen to what everybody is saying, and especially what we should be because I think when the national media gets involved in a series and there hasn't been a lot of attention, they expect something different than what we are, and we haven't gotten a lot of notoriety, but our notoriety has been through grit and grind.   We've been scrambling and doing all kinds of stuff that's not pretty, so everybody comes in and they expect to see a pretty team because we won, but we're still the same ugly team, and we've got to go out and just play that way.   
   
 Q.   What do these three days do for you guys?   
LIONEL HOLLINS:   Made us wait.   (Laughter.)   That's about it.   We got a day off and then we practiced two days, but still, it's just waiting.   Even during the year you don't wait like this too often.   You're playing every other day back to back and players get used to that.   I hope the rest of the series is that way.   
   
 Q.   What's your reaction to Tony's fine?  
LIONEL HOLLINS:   Flopping is not allowed, and he flopped and he got fined.   I don't think it had anything to do with the call, but that's the rule.   Embellishing a call.   
   
 Q.   Do you think it's unusual that you get the $5,000 fine and while that had nothing to do with the flagrant itself, in another instance if you win or tie you game you take the $5,000 fine?  
LIONEL HOLLINS:           Depends on the player getting the fine, getting suspended when they go too far.   You know, it's a simple way to keep the referees from having to decide flopping.   They just make the call or don't make the call and then later review, and it's good to do it that way.   Obviously somebody may flop and the league may come back, but that's just like flagrants and anything else.   The league comes back and changes flagrants from one to two or two to one, and that's their prerogative after the fact.   If it was a two in the game somebody may have been disqualified and gone to the locker room and helped one team win or lose.   It's the same situation.   We can't make everything 100 percent fair.   If we could, you guys wouldn't be standing here asking me questions.  
   
 Q.   How many different positions can Greene play for you?  
LIONEL HOLLINS:   Just one.   I mean, that's all he's been learning is small forward.   I don't see him playing 4.   You get into dire straits, you never know.   But I'm looking at him as playing small forward.   
   
 Q.   Have you ever talked with the team about how what they're doing is impacting the city and how it's uniting the community and all that stuff?  
LIONEL HOLLINS:   I'm sure the fans are telling them that every day they walk on the street, so I'm sure they hear it and know it, but I don't talk about that.   We're just trying to be as good as we can be every day we go out there and try to get as far as we can go.   All that other stuff is just crazy.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT