NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: GRIZZLIES v SPURS
May 23, 2013
Lionel Hollins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Day off, much needed, did it help at all?   
LIONEL HOLLINS:   We got some rest, both physically and mentally, but we want to get back to playing.  
   
 Q.   A lot of people are talking about the prospect of changing the starting lineup.   Is that something you've thought about?  
LIONEL HOLLINS:   It's something I've thought about.   It's not something I'm ready to do.   We went on the road in every series and we lost, we had to come back.   We're at home, and we want to come out and play much more aggressive, much more confident, which teams usually do at home, and as I told our team, being home is not going to win anything for us, we have to go out and play much better.   There's no need at this point to change the starting lineup.   We lost an overtime game and we got blown out in a game.   So we've got to come here and hold serve and we've got to play better, obviously.   We've got to play better earlier, and we've got to play better later.  
   
 Q.   Did Marc look for his shots sufficiently in 1 and 2?  
LIONEL HOLLINS:   No, he didn't, and we talked about that.   We talked about picking up the pace and just things that help us get better, and I feel like we got better in Game 2 from Game 1.   We need to get better from 3 to 1 and 3 to 2, but we also need to win.   
   
 Q.   Does it help that you got back to playing Grizzlies defense in the fourth quarter?  
LIONEL HOLLINS:   Oh, no question.   Offense and defense I thought we played much more like us, it looked like us, and that's why I said, when we play like that and we lose, you can live with it, versus the way we played in the first game.   We want to get better at doing that.   We want to get better at attacking them and making them have to guard all over the court and not just standing and holding the basketball.  
   
 Q.   Having Jared and Quincy out there together, what challenges does that pose for the Spurs?  
LIONEL HOLLINS:   Well, they have to go out and guard them.   They're more apt to make shots, and so they have to guard them.   
   
 Q.   Is Marc looking for his shot the key to getting better?  
LIONEL HOLLINS:   No, I don't think him looking for his shot.   It's us playing better as a team will help.   When you're missing lay‑ups and missing wide‑open shots, it doesn't matter who's shooting.   We have to be better at that and we have to be better‑‑ I thought in the first quarter second game we held them to 15 points.   I think we defended them and our energy and our effort was great, but we didn't do anything on the offensive end, so we were down 15‑13.  
   
 Q.   If you don't make a starting lineup change, will you be quicker to get a shooter out there?  
LIONEL HOLLINS:   We'll see.   You've seen all the series and I'm not hesitant to change the lineup early.   I mean, whatever we need is what we're going to try to do to win.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT