NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: GRIZZLIES v SPURS
May 21, 2013
Lionel Hollins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Teams don't lose confidence at this stage of the Playoffs, do they?  
LIONEL HOLLINS:   I don't think so.   I think over the course of a series you can, but not for one game, for certain.   
   
 Q.   Did you consider lineup changes at all the last few days?  
LIONEL HOLLINS:   No, I considered changing coaches but not lineups.   (Laughter).   
No, the reality is that sometimes you just get whooped during the season.   We've been beat by 20, and we go‑‑ you just come back and look at the tape and see what you can make changes on.   The difference is during the season we have a day off, they don't want to come to practice.   I mean, it's going to be rough.   But we can't do that in the Playoffs, although we did work a little bit longer than we normally have been working in the Playoffs.   
But normally the only way you overcome anything like that is to come out and work harder.   That's my philosophy.   We just come in, we get at it, we get back to basics a little bit, because as you go along you sometimes lose perspective of what you do and who we are.   We can never lose sight of our identity, and I said this morning, we've been playing under the radar, nobody knew who we were, we get to the Conference Finals and every media outlet wants us on Sirius radio, national radio shows and everybody, SI is talking to us, and I said it's like the little fat grumpy, grubby person that all of a sudden the prettiest girl in the room notices you, now all of a sudden you start running on the treadmill, you shave, you want to be who you're not.   She didn't really like you for who you were when you change, she liked you for what she saw in the first place, which is true.   I mean, we're who we are and we have to stay who we are, and we have to understand that no matter who's coming and talking to us, we have to be true to our identity, and we can't go changing and shaving and taking a bath when we haven't taken one all along.   (Laughter).  
You know, we all have been there.   All you need is a little cute girl to say hello to you when you're in junior high school and all of a sudden you're trying to get your grandfather's shaver and trying to shave and you've never shaved before in your life.   I can't go to school like that.   I bought me a new shirt.   Cutoff jeans don't work anymore.   
   
 Q.   What's the most important thing for you to do better tonight?  
LIONEL HOLLINS:   Well, we have to have better discipline and better effort.   Those are two things that when you look at the tape, they jump out at us.   We weren't disciplined on penetration like we normally are, and then we didn't recover and make second and third effort and play, make the other team play, and we keep making them make another pass, you keep helping and recovering, helping and recovering until either the shot clock runs out or they take a quick shot and turn the ball over.  
I thought we made one effort and we stopped, we made one effort and we stopped.   I thought we were very, very tired in the first quarter and we were spent because we spent so much energy from an emotional perspective and adrenaline flowing in that moment versus just playing the game.   
   
 Q.   Do you see anything in Randolph's game, anything on tape?  
LIONEL HOLLINS:   I noticed it all in the game.   
   
 Q.   Was he just not making shots, was that‑‑  
LIONEL HOLLINS:   How many shots did he get?   He got eight?   I think he had two or three of them blocked and he missed a couple of easy chippies at the bucket and he missed two tip‑ins.   Sometimes that happens.   Zach had poor games during the season, Marc has had poor games during the season, and we just keep playing.   It's like a running back that doesn't get 100 yards.   You're still going to give him the ball the next game and he's going to play better, but also everybody around him has to play better to make him be better.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT