NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: GRIZZLIES v SPURS
May 21, 2013
Lionel Hollins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.   You had a 19‑4 offensive rebound advantage but only 8‑2 on second chance points.   Is that how this game kind of got away?
LIONEL HOLLINS:   No, that's not how it got away. 

Q.   What did you do to keep in it?   It seemed like there was a lot of discouragement on your faces. 
LIONEL HOLLINS:   I just told them there's no quitting.   It's never going to be easy, and we just have to keep fighting and see what happens.   We have to make our own breaks, we have to keep competing, and they were frustrated because there was a lot of easy things, shots that they didn't make, especially Zach around the basket in the first half, and in general, and we just kept battling and we finally found a combination, we finally found something that we could use to attack.   We played a little faster and we held them to nine points in the fourth quarter and we scored 20 ourselves, and we just didn't play smart at different stretches.   We were down 85‑78 and I think we had six or seven possessions and we got nothing.   But they didn't score.   Then we finally made a couple of plays and then Mike made a play to tie it up in overtime with 14.6 to go.   I said if we don't have a clean three, just attack the basket, and we took sort of a challenged three.   It wasn't a bad, bad three, but we could have attacked the basket and scored again, we would have been back to one, and then they would have had to make free throws again. 
Then at the end, we came up and‑‑ I wish Mike had had the ball, but JB had it and he didn't make the extra pass.   He threw it back to Marc and came off himself.   He was trying to score and tie the game up and I have no fault with that.   We just battled.   This probably is what we looked like all year long if you haven't seen us play.   We scratch and claw and we find a way to get something working and we get back in the games, and we usually find a way to win. 
You've got to give the Spurs credit.   They hung in there.   They were running tired at the end, as we were, and they kept‑‑ in overtime they got a couple of big buckets that were right at the basket which put them up by four, and we had to foul and do other things. 
But I'm proud of my group and how we competed and how we kept fighting, and we're in the same boat we were when we left LA; we're down 0‑2, we've got to go home and take care of business at home.   It's not going to be easy, but that's where we are. 

Q.   What did you do defensively that was different in the fourth quarter that allowed you to make that comeback?
LIONEL HOLLINS:   We were just scratching and clawing.   It wasn't nothing that we were doing differently.   We did better in the pick‑and‑rolls, we did better at getting them out to shooters and they missed some shots on the perimeter.

Q.   From your viewpoint what Tony did the first three quarters, what did you see in his‑‑
LIONEL HOLLINS:   He's a Hall of Fame guard.   He's been around.   He's done great things in his career, and he just controlled the pace and got in the paint, found open guys.   I mean, the pass he made to Duncan, the bounce pass as he went baseline, looked like he was going to shoot and he bounce passed, that's Hall of Fame plays.   We battled him and we wound up being in the game.   We've played against a lot of great players all year long, and you just have to go out and compete against them the best you can and try to limit some things and find a way to win. 

Q.   Zach has had his struggles.   What did you see from him in the fourth quarter that's encouraging?
LIONEL HOLLINS:   We were playing so much faster and not just trying to go to Zach, and he found himself with the ball and in good position a few times, and he made some‑‑ he missed one bucket and Tony‑‑ I think it was Tony or Q had the rebound and it rimmed in and rimmed out.   That was a tie game again. 

Q.   How are you feeling after this one about your team going back home? 
LIONEL HOLLINS:   Well, I can be comfortable with the team.   We lost, we're down 0‑2, but we played like us again.   We just have to find a way to score earlier so they don't get out on us as far as they did and we have to battle back.   But we battled back, we go into the fourth quarter and we're down 12, and next thing you know, we're playing.   We got it inside 10, and next thing you know we're tied up. 

Q.   Obviously you guys got some wins against them in the regular season, but was there a little confidence booster at the end of the game?
LIONEL HOLLINS:   This is how we play.   We don't‑‑ I know what you're saying, but Game 1 was just an aberration.   We've been blown out during the season, as well.   It's just one loss, and we come back, and we got back to being us.   We just have to keep getting better, and that's the goal.   Every game get better.   We were better tonight than we were first game.   We've got to be better next game and better the next game, and we've got to get a win while we're getting better and get stronger as the series goes on. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT