SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 25, 2001
Bob Gilder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BOB GILDER:  Well, I got off to a little bit better sstart on the front side today  Really, was just reading the putts a little bit better today and made some putts.  It got kind of slow out there at one point and I kind of lost my focus a little bit, but it was tough there in the back side in places and a little more up-and-down on the back side.  But all in all I thought that I hit the ball pretty good; I hit it close enough times.  And I actually just putted very well today with the exception of one hole. 
 
 
Q.  It appears the conditions were a little tougher in the afternoon than morning based upon scores and based upon just talking to people out there.  True?  False? Didn't matter to you?
 
BOB GILDER:  It got windier this afternoon. There were some holes that it got pretty windy there at the end.  You know, I wasn't outside that much in the morning.  It seemed kind of cool, but, you know, the temperature was about the same all day I think. Other than that, it probably played a little bit tougher this afternoon.  Some of the scores were a little bit higher. 
 
Q.  A lot of your compatriots seemed to rise and fall in the midpoint into coming back in.  You said you lost a little focus, but you seemed to regain it better than they did.  Was there any one part of your game -- what one part of your game did you rely on?
 
BOB GILDER:  Well, like I said, you know, I was able to putt.  I hit a, you know, I needed a good shot after 3-putting.  I don't know what hole that is, that one up the hill, what is that, 14 or something?  Pardon? 
 
Q.  14.
 
BOB GILDER:  Yeah.  We just waited for so long, and I was kind of very much in between clubs on that hole, and it was kind of a sucker pin over there, the back left.  And I went with the longer club and tried to hit it up in the air and hit it heavy and left it on the front of the green.  I just got through watching one of my competitors hit the same putt up there and left it way short and I did the same thing.  I just lost my focus there.  Then the next hole I hit a horrible, horrible tee shot on the par 3, and it was like I wasn't even there.  But I almost made the putt, and the next hole, I  almost made birdie there.  I kind of left it just short in the heart.  And then on the par 5, 17, I hit a good drive and a good second shot and was really -- the wind was kind of howling in our face there.  I had 107 to the front and four more to the pin, so I had 111 to the pin.  I didn't think I could get a pitching wedge there, and I hit it probably about pin-high and it sucked back to the front of the green and I hit a real good putt there and made it.  And we stood around again on 18 in the middle of the fairway, and I think I was stretching a 5-iron there from 185, the way the wind was going.  And I didn't -- I just wanted to make sure I got it on the green and left it front-right a little bit short on the fringe and had a long putt.  And then I was able to get that down in two.  So I saved some really good pars and made some birdie putts out there today that I would say was a little abnormal.  (Laughing.)  At least from the way I was putting yesterday. 
 
Q.  How bad are your knees?
 
BOB GILDER:  They're not that bad.  They don't hurt my swing at all.  It just hurts to walk.  I've just got to be careful walking. 
 
Q.  Do you usually take a cart when you're allowed to?
 
BOB GILDER:  Well, I did, just the last couple of weeks when they started hurting pretty bad.  I wanted to just -- I wanted to save them so I could walk this week, to see if I could walk this week.  And it's doing fine. They've been working on them, and they seem to be getting  -- seem to be getting a little stronger.  But it doesn't hurt my swing in the least, and it's not a problem hitting a golf ball. 
 
Q.  Is it ligament damage?  What is it exactly?
 
BOB GILDER:  I have a torn medial meniscus in both knees.  The right one feels okay, and the left one is twitching and all sorts of things in there when I make a funky little move with my foot.  But fortunately, it doesn't bother my swing at all.  It feels better -- it felt very good to walk today. I was just trying to be careful; that's all.  Not a problem. 
 
Q.  Just some thoughts on going into tomorrow, being in the final group.  How much are you thinking about actually winning this tournament?  Is that just getting a little ahead of things?
 
BOB GILDER:  Well, we have a long way to go yet. This is only half way through this tournament.  I would say the plan would be to stretch it out to give yourself a pretty good cushion, get as far away. And if it's a two-man race or a three-man race, you know, who knows?  But you can only take it one shot at a time.  For me, the golf course doesn't really set up  that well because I'm not drawing the ball, but I'm able to get around with a little bit of a fade.  So I'm hitting the ball very solid, and I'm keeping the ball in play and I'm hitting some real good iron shots.  So I feel pretty good going into the last two rounds. But I'm sure Jim Thorpe feels very good, too. And there's a host of guys right behind us that feel pretty good about it I'm sure.  I like the golf course. I'm sure a lot of these other guys, too.  And when you like a place that you're playing, you're generally going to have some good days, and hopefully we can have a couple more here.  If the weather doesn't get too bad, I personally don't mind whether the weather gets bad or not.  I'm hitting it fine, and the worse the weather gets, I think the better off a guy who's hitting it well is going to be on a course like this.  If I continue puttingg well, I'm going to be tough.  But you never know.  There's a bunch of other guys that want to win this too.  We're gonna see what happens. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT