UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 8, 2012
Manti Te'o
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Manti, can you just talk a little bit about the defense, your resolve after you have all these guys getting injured.   Lot of new faces.   Talk about holding it together. 
MANTI TE'O:   I mean, we understand that people go down.   We work hard.   We train hard to prepare ourselves for any situation that may appear in the game. 
Losing Kap and Slaughter early in the game was a big loss for our team.   But the guys who backed them up really came in and did a great job for us and helped us come out with a victory today. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
MANTI TE'O:   I mean, Tommy always has great confidence in himself.   Something about our team is that we have confidence in each other.   When he went in, I think he knew the rest of his brothers had confidence in what he could do. 
It was no surprise to us that he could drive down the field, put us in a situation to win the game.   Just goes to show, you know, the work that he put in, just his poise, just preparing himself in any way he could help us to continue. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
MANTI TE'O:   It just goes to show his confidence is getting there, his confidence grew.   It shows a lot of maturity on his part to miss the field goal, then come back in and kick possibly the most important field goal of his career so far. 
It shows his maturity.   It shows his confidence.   He's going to continue to get better, especially with his performance today in kicking that game‑winning field goal.   He's going to get that much better and build upon his performance today.

Q.   Manti, did you hear the crowd boo when Tommy came into the game?   Were you surprised by that?
MANTI TE'O:   Yeah, I was a bit surprised.   Yeah, I was a bit surprised.   But I think Tommy knew it didn't really matter because he knew what was most important is that the guys out there on the field and the guys on the sideline trusted him and had confidence in his ability to make plays. 
I think he got a lot of respect today in the way that he was the general out there.   He stayed focused at the task at hand.   He did a really good job. 
Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT