NCAA WOMEN'S 1ST AND 2ND ROUNDS: COLLEGE STATION
March 20, 2016
Sue Semrau
Leticia Romero
Adut Bulgak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Leti, have you kind of put it on yourself to assert yourself and be the leader on the court for this team?  
LETICIA ROMERO: I think we have like both leaders, but I'm definitely trying to organize the team and be the point guard who takes control and makes my teammates better.   
 Q.  Leti, can you talk about the challenge of guarding No. 24 and 33, A & M's guards out front, had pretty big games yesterday.  Do they remind you of anybody?  Talk about you guys defending them.  
LETICIA ROMERO: They are really good players.  We're talking about No. 33.  She likes to run a lot and get points in transition.  We'll definitely be ready for that, and I think it's going to be -- it's going to come down to our defense.  If we play our defense and our game, I don't think we have to worry about the other team as much as being as consistent.   
 Q.  Adut, moving down low for them, they have a lot of size on this team, maybe some of the most size you've seen all year.  Talk about going up against them.  
ADUT BULGAK: Well, we have great size, too.  We have Kai, someone who's taller than all of our post players who we have to defend and guard every day, and I think she's -- I'll take her on my team over any of them, so I think we have great preparation to play their bigger players, too.   
 Q.  Adut, this is one of the quickest turnarounds you guys have had.  How are you feeling going into the game?  
ADUT BULGAK: I think everyone is feeling good.  We took some ice baths yesterday.  They were forced (laughter), but I mean, I'm feeling good again.  It really helped.  So I think everybody is still ready.  We're about to go practice right now.  That'll show how our bodies are looking, but I think everybody is okay.  One day is all right; we've done it before.   
 Q.  Leti, what do you think will be -- how important will it be to get off to a quick start, especially when you're playing the home team here tomorrow?  
LETICIA ROMERO: It's going to be important, just because they are a great team, and you can't rest with them.  You can't rest with anybody in this tournament.  We're just going to be hard every possession, just from the very beginning, and that's going to be key for us, just not let up and play hard every possession.   
 Q.  Leti, when you look at A & M, do they remind you of any team that you guys have played?  Obviously a lot of great teams in the ACC.  Do they remind you of anybody you've played thus far?  
LETICIA ROMERO: Not really.  I think their transition is very good, just kind of like Miami.  They like to run a lot.  But they are different, and we are ready for them.  But I don't know, I don't see any similarities with any other team.   
 Q.  Coach, yesterday was the third game A & M played without Williams.  I don't know if you saw the tape from the other two, but did they change anything different do you feel in what they do without her?  
SUE SEMRAU: I think they're different defensively without her.  She's really savvy.  She's so long and smart, and obviously I think that Chelsea Jennings has done a great job stepping up as well as their other guards.   
I think 27 rebounds was different than anything they've ever done, and certainly have to credit -- yeah, that's tremendous that Howard could do that.   
 Q.  Just wanted to get your observations of yesterday.  When you went back and looked at things, what did you think about your team?  
SUE SEMRAU: I thought we looked like we hadn't played in two weeks.  I thought A & M looked like they hadn't played in two weeks.  I thought all the other games I saw looked like people hadn't played in a long time.  Our timing was bad, our decision-making was off.  We turned the ball over far too many times.  I think a lot of coaches are saying that right now.   
I was pleased that we were able to cut our errors in half the second half, and I thought that was a big part of us being able to make a run.   
 Q.  You kind of touched on Howard's performance a minute ago, but when someone has a game like that, are there different things you have to do to try to limit it next time?  What are you thinking going into this?  
SUE SEMRAU: I think that obviously you look at her, and it's not just in this game.  She's so aggressive.  She goes to the right places to rebound.  Just for a freshman, she's just so savvy in those ways, and then obviously she's pretty powerful.   
I think we understand that, and Gary likened the match-up with Shakayla and her athleticism, they're both tremendous athletes, and so we're used to seeing that at practice, and it's tough to stop no matter what you do.   
 Q.  Outside Howard, what really sticks out to you about Texas A&M?  
SUE SEMRAU: Well, yeah, Walker is as good a player as we've seen all year.  I mean, she is -- she can score the basketball.  There's a lot of really nice players out there, but she's uncanny in the way that she can score.   
But it's not just Walker.  I mean, they've got so many different things that really you have to consider.  You have to consider their size in the middle.  You've got to consider that Danni Williams came in and hit a couple threes yesterday.  She had been on a drought, but shooters, once they open it up, things can happen.   
And then I think Jordan is such an unsung hero.  She makes them go.  They're a very good basketball team, and we're not taking any piece lightly.   
 Q.  Does A & M remind you of any team?  
SUE SEMRAU: I was wondering what Leti was going to say, and the answer is no.  I mean, there's -- no.   
 Q.  I'm sure there's a lot you're talking to your team about today, but if there was one thing you think is the most important on what you'll have to do to win tomorrow, what would you tell them?  
SUE SEMRAU: I'm not sure I could narrow it to one.  There's a lot of things that we need to be able to do.  It's never easy to come into somebody's home and win a basketball game, and in particular a team like A & M.  I think both of us have had -- have taken our time in developing the chemistry of our teams, and it'll be interesting to see tomorrow's game even based on that alone.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT