NCAA WOMEN'S 1ST AND 2ND ROUNDS: COLLEGE STATION
March 19, 2016
Sue Semrau
Leticia Romero
Brittany Brown
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Florida State - 72, Middle Tennessee State - 55
SUE SEMRAU: What a great basketball game, and I know that we were expecting that.  Middle Tennessee is a tremendous program, and they just fought.  I thought that they played to their strengths.  They did a great job of trying to take our strengths away in the first half, and were successful a lot of times.  I thought we, in the second half, were able to open it up a little bit and get out in transition, and I think the rebounding really changed us.
Q. Leticia, usually you're a person that doesn't show much emotion.  Today you're fist bumping, smiling a lot.  What can you attribute that to?
LETICIA ROMERO: I feel like it was the excitement of just the NCAA Tournament, and seeing my teammates' hype and their smiles.  And how we came back in the second half and we just had a run, and you didn't see anybody just getting down on themselves or anything.  It was really exciting.
Q. Brittany, you guys always preach defense.  This year the defense is really what got you guys back into the game there late in the game.  What was it where you guys stepped up?  What did you do differently towards the end to really set the pace on the defensive end?
BRITTANY BROWN: I just think when we came together, we got into one of our huddles and we talked about it, and we know that we pride ourselves on just defending and rebounding.  And I think we all understood -- like, whoever messed up or whatever, they take accountability for that mistake or not boxing out that one possession, and I think we held each other accountable on the defensive end and that changed us.
Q. Coach, we were talking about the defense really changed things there at the end.  What was said?  What was done to really kick that?
SUE SEMRAU: Well, we talked a lot at halftime about the turnovers and the 16 points that they had off of our turnovers.  We felt like if we could take good care of the ball, we could get good shots up, then that was going to be a big part of it.  I felt like a lot of that was just having not played in two weeks.  I was sharing with Stan earlier that it's hard to not play in a week, much less two.  So we've got that out of our system, and let's take care of it on this one end, because defensively we're doing what we need to do.  I feel like the offense -- sometimes when you're turning it over, you don't get as intense defensively.  So when we were able to do a better job in the second half, I think that changed us.
Q. You knew that Leticia Romero could lead this team in this game.  What can you say about the way she played here today?  She really gave you a lift.
SUE SEMRAU: Well, you know, it's so balanced, and I thought that started with her.  She was able to find people, but then she was able to step up and take her own shots, and, that, we need her to do.  She's a great scorer, but she's so selfless that she a lot of times won't step up and take those shots.  And I think that opened things up for Adut.  I thought that opened things up for Kayla, and to have four players in double figures, I think that really speaks to NCAA play.
Q. Can you talk about your preparation from here.  You've got another game that is just fixing to start and will be over with a little later on today.  How do you go about preparing for a game on Monday at some point?  Do you wait for this game to go final and then dive into --
SUE SEMRAU: Yeah, and we get in the cold tubs right now.  We take a look at both teams.  I get out there before the game ends so I can scout, and then we just take care of it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT