BOSTON COLLEGE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 30, 2017
Lukas Denis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Boston College - 28, Central Michigan - 8   
 Q.  How do you continue to be Johnny-on-the-spot, man?  The ball keeps finding you or you keep finding it.  
LUKAS DENIS: You know, I just try to keep doing my job, and my job is to stay on top of the receivers and kind mirror the quarterback, and every time I do that, the ball just happens to land right in my hands.   
 Q.  The first one were you surprised, did you look like, that's a football?  
LUKAS DENIS: Yeah, I mean, the ball was a little bit overthrown, and I didn't expect the ball to be that high overthrown, so I just kept running, and it landed right in my hands.   
 Q.  Last week the defense played well, and you guys created some opportunities for the offense that they weren't able to capitalize on.  This week was it sort of a confidence builder?  
LUKAS DENIS: I mean, yeah, every week we try to come out -- even on special teams, try to get the offense a better chance to score.  We live on that board over there that kind of dictates your chances to score based off your field position.  Every time we try to give them a short field, do the best we can so that as a team we can win the game.   
 Q.  Educate me about you're from Everett, Mass, local kid, your recruiting process.  What did you think about BC growing up, and what made you come to Boston College?  
LUKAS DENIS: Yeah, growing up, BC was the biggest school in Mass, and I took pride in the fact that I came from Massachusetts, and a few other guys, we always joke around, being from Massachusetts.  My first chance came at a camp, I came to the camp every year for four years, even after I committed, and I learned a lot coming in and staying with the coaches.  After I committed, I would come up and hang out with the guys and just try to get a good feel for the people I'm going to be around for the next four years, and I really appreciated the type of people they were, the atmosphere they brought, and I made the right choice.   
 Q.  Did Manny Asprilla talk to you or did he push the place for you?  
LUKAS DENIS: Yeah, I knew Manny went there, and all throughout high school, people would always be like, you're going to be like Manny, you're going to do this, and he kind of just tole me what college was like and the type of ball that we play here at BC, and I came for visits, and I kind of loved it.  I kind of liked playing ball.  I liked the coaches here, and although some of them have changed, we brought in some very good coaches, and I really appreciate them.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT