BOSTON COLLEGE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 16, 2017
Lukas Denis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Notre Dame - 49, Boston College - 20.   
 Q.  Talk about those chunk plays being momentum builders for them; how much does that pull the plug on what you guys are trying to do?  
LUKAS DENIS: Yeah, I wouldn't say it pulls the plug, but it definitely gives us something to refocus our focus on.  We've got to get back on the drawing board, figure out what happened, what went wrong, how we can avoid that from happening again.  So I mean, we just went right back to the sidelines, told Coach what we saw, what happened, we saw it from above, and then we tried to stop that from happening again.   
 Q.  Talk about what kind of problems did Wimbush present?  I know you were preparing for a running quarterback.  How was he able to break free on some of those plays?  
LUKAS DENIS: You know, he's a dual threat guy, so you've got to stay honest and stay true to your ability.  When you're in coverage for a while, guys like that, they can get out of the pocket and just run around, and that's something that he's really good at.  He's talented.  He excels at that.  We've just got to be more disciplined and stop that from happening in the future.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible.)  How did you guys in the secondary prevent him from being a non-factor really?  
LUKAS DENIS: I would say every day we come in here, we watch film, we try to pick up tendencies, cadences and things that they do in their game and incorporate them in ours so we can stop things like that from happening.  He's a really good receiver and he's been having breakout games, but I think we were able to do a good job containing him.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible.)  
LUKAS DENIS: You know, just miscommunication.  Just not doing our jobs when we had to.  But I mean, we're going to get back on the film, see what went wrong, come back in here tomorrow and get it right so it doesn't happen again.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible.)  
LUKAS DENIS: Throughout the night, I felt we did a good job, and they were just -- there was a key few plays that they had breakout runs or we'd stop them and stop them and then one would spurt out.  We've just got to keep our heads on right and know that we can be the defense we want to be.  We can be the best defense in the country.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT