NHL ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 2, 2002
Eric Daze
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 

Q.  Tell me you didn't get that eye in tonight's game (referring to cut above right eye)?
 
ERIC DAZE:  I did actually.  That's unbelievable.  First shift, my first game, and I got caught right away.  But after that, it was a nice day.  
 

Q.  What happened? 
 
ERIC DAZE:  I don't know.  I was in front of the net, kind of battling for a puck.  I got an elbow right in the eye, so... 
 

Q.  How many stitches?
 
ERIC DAZE:  I don't know.  Six, seven.  
 

Q.  Can you comment on this being your first game, scoring two goals, and getting the MVP? 
 
ERIC DAZE:  Yeah, that's unbelievable weekend, just to be around those guys.  For myself, being around Mario Lemieux, Patrick Roy, it's been an unbelievable weekend.  
 

Q.  You're well on your way to a career best season, like seven points away from your career high.  Can you talk about the chemistry that works for you in Chicago?
 
ERIC DAZE:  It's been a great year.  The coach has a lot to do with the team's success, my success.  I played really well last year at the end of the season with Steve and Michael.  They make my job so much easier because they're two great play-maker, and I'm a shooter.  You can't ask for anything more than guys that are willing to give you the puck.  
 

Q.  How do you feel about getting the MVP, considering a goalie actually had a shut-out in this game?
 
ERIC DAZE:  Yeah, I was surprised.  Because we lost the game, and he play pretty good.  He made some good save in the third.  Well, you know, I'll take it (laughter).  
 

Q.  What happened in that third period?  You must be disappointed?
 
ERIC DAZE:  Yeah, because we're leading.  Their goalies made great saves.  Our goalies made great saves, too.  It was just a matter of they got a couple of goals late in the game.  They scored two empty net after that.  
 

Q.  What did you think on the first goal?  Did you think it was in?
 
ERIC DAZE:  I didn't see actually.  I just  -- I never saw the puck.  Hasek was on the ice.  I never saw the puck. 
 

Q.  Can this help you?  Can you carry this into the second half of the season, no bearing on your play or confidence going as the season resumes?
 
ERIC DAZE:  I don't think on the ice it's really a factor.  But just to be around the great players that have been around for so long.  I think I learned a lot more off the ice today.  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT