NORTHWESTERN STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 2, 2016
De'Mard Llorens
Jay Thomas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Baylor - 55, Northwestern State - 7
Q. Coach, obviously this isn't the outcome that you wanted, but it's really no surprise, you knew what you were facing when you came into tonight's ball game.  What positives just from what you saw on the field were you able to take away?
JAY THOMAS: Well I thought that coming out in the second half, offensively, defensively, we were able to do some things and Baylor, they're really good, man.  They're 22nd in the country, they proved that tonight.  The tempo and then having an experienced quarterback back in that offense gave our defense some problems.  I thought their defense played lights out in the first half and it just gave our offense fits, we just couldn't get any first downs, kept our defense on the field and we can't give a team like that short fields.  They will take advantage of that.
Q. In a game like this, will you even show, the coaches will breakdown the film, but will you even show this film to the players?
JAY THOMAS: Oh, absolutely.  We'll get back mid-morning, we'll break it down tomorrow, it's a short day for us, we'll get that done, bring the players in, we'll grade it, we'll look at it and then we'll move on to Incarnate Word, because we play Thursday night.  So we got to watch it and our guys have got to learn from it.
Q. How much of what you do over the next couple days will be psychological and keeping the spirits of your players up after a game like this, when they will play alike opponent in six days?
JAY THOMAS: A lot of smiles in the locker room right now.  Very proud of them.  Baylor was good.  This is a huge challenge.  We had to come in and play a team like this and 85 scholarships to 63 scholarships, you know, to get out there and battle and go toe to toe with a team like this, I'm very proud of them.  The outcome wasn't there, and we didn't have much success in the first half, but I'd like to say this:  Coach Grobe is first class.  The score was obviously out of hand, he came out and he just took the air out of the ball, milked the clock down.  We took the same approach, too.  And he got to play a lot of guys and so did we.  Which is good.
Q. (No microphone.)
JAY THOMAS: I think so.  We were able to do some things.  Their 2s are still pretty good.  They had the 3s and 4s in.  That obviously gave us the opportunity to do some things and to get the ball moving and play a little flex defense, but they got quality players and they got quality depth, so it makes it difficult when you actually have to line up and play this, but we did.  They gave us some success in the second half and it was comparable when you get to the 3s or 2s and 3s mixed, against our 1s, so it gets comparable to the conference we play in.
Q. (No microphone.)
JAY THOMAS: I was very proud of them.  It was very easy to lay down in the second half when you're down with that kind of score.  To come out and fight and play the entire game, I thought we played four quarters, and the guys continued to play and I saw guys out there wanting the game to continue on and continue to play.  So, that makes me very proud as a coach and we got what we needed.  We needed to get out and the field and play a game, so didn't really want to play Baylor as a scrimmage game, a preseason game to go into conference, but we got some value out of it.
Q. (No microphone.)
JAY THOMAS: Well, I think that right now it's Poullard is out, we'll get him re-evaluated come tomorrow.  He could be doubtful for this week.  But other than that I think we stayed pretty healthy.
Q. (No microphone.)
JAY THOMAS: Just wanted to make sure that check doesn't bounce.  That's right.
Q. (No microphone.)
JAY THOMAS: Oh, yeah, looking forward to it.
Q. From the sidelines it looked like it was awfully tough sledding out there trying to run the football.  What was it like?
DE'MARD LLORENS: It was tough, we learned something valuable though.
Q. What do you take positive from this ball game?
DE'MARD LLORENS: We got a lot of stuff to clean up on the O line, wide receivers, running backs, we just all got a lot of stuff to clean up to make us a better team.
Q. How much are you aware of the fact that next week and in just six days you'll be in conference play and obviously the quality of opponent will not be the quality of opponent that you played tonight, in other words, I know you're disappointed you lost 55-7, but that is certainly not indicative of what kind of team you can be.
DE'MARD LLORENS: Yeah, coming out here and playing Baylor, kind of give us a good feel as a team.  I guess you can kind of say scrimmage, to get our feel.  We won't play as big and fast guys come next week.  So we learned from it and we're going to go into next week and try to be better.
Q. Tell me about the conference opener in just six days.  Incarnate Word, a team that a lot of folks thought you should have beat at their place last year, they came back in the second half and won.  As a senior, might you remind the players of what happened last year?
DE'MARD LLORENS: Yes, sir.  We lost a game down there that I feel look we shouldn't have lost, but ever since that day we have been, we know we had that day marked on our calendar to play them.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT