NL DIVISION SERIES: CARDINALS v DIAMONDBACKS
October 9, 2001
Woody Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Would you talk about your second half of the season with the Cardinals and what turned it around for you?
 
WOODY WILLIAMS: I don't know if it was so much a turnaround or a change of scenery, but the Cardinals played good defense, the infielders are especially well in what they do as far as their range and the balls they get to, the guy's usually out.  And San Diego got a lot of guys, we had six shortstops this year, it made it difficult for everyone to get used to playing together. 
 
Q.  Would you talk about the leadership role you've taken in the clubhouse?
 
WOODY WILLIAMS: I think mainly it's just my personality, and it's something that I accept.  And I enjoy more pressure on me and less on other guys.  By no means am I a superstar or been accomplished or done a lot of things in baseball.  But as far as being a leader, I guess that's what I'm here to do. 
 
Q.  What's the most difficult thing the Diamondbacks present to you?
 
WOODY WILLIAMS: I think the main thing for us, or me personally, is just the fact they are all veteran players and a lot of them have been around and have been through post-season and been in a lot of winning ball clubs, and they know how to play the game.  I think each and every hitter is going to be important, that we bear down and execute our pitches, one through nine, they are pretty solid and if you make a mistake, it can be a three or four run inning real quick. 
 
Q.  Would you talk about you opposed Randy and what that presents?
 
WOODY WILLIAMS: Obviously, it presents a challenge for me and an opportunity for me to go out there and pitch against one of the finer pitchers in all of baseball.  By no means do I see me facing Randy Johnson, I wish it was that easy but it's not, it's not just me going out there.  I think in order for us to beat Randy Johnson, obviously, I'm going to have to be at my very best and execute my pitches. 
 
Q.  You talked about a couple of weeks ago about loving the pressure situations.  Is this a pressure situation?  Are you just enjoying being in post-season?
 
WOODY WILLIAMS: So far I'm enjoying it.  I don't expect any extra pressure or expectations on my team.  All I can do is go out there and do the best I can after I go off the field, throwing my last pitch, giving everything I gave and everything I had.  Right now I'm looking forward to it. 
 
Q.    7 and 1 with the Cardinals, what was the biggest factor in the way you pitched after you started with the Cardinals?
 
WOODY WILLIAMS: I think the biggest factor is realizing I didn't have to do everything myself.  Trust the defense, and Dave Duncan really has gone the extra mile to make sure that I was prepared for the games.  And it was just a matter of me going out there and locating my pitches.  He even stressed it wasn't that important that I work ahead in the count, as long as I knew where I could go in certain situations. 
 
Q.  Compare what you were doing at the beginning of the season to what you are doing right now and what the difference is.
 
WOODY WILLIAMS: You really can't compare the two.  In San Diego, everyone knew the situation we were in with the new ballpark being put on hold and it put a damper on the things they were trying to do here and there and it was a retooling stage there.  And as it got closer to the deadline, I felt there was a pretty good chance of being moved so I just tried to approach it with an open mind.  My faith in God, I trusted God would put me where he wanted me, and so far it's obviously the right place for me.  It's an easy transition.  And the fans, the media, and my teammates have been very good for me. 
 
Q.  When you were with San Diego, you and the Diamondbacks had a rivalry going.  Does that add any pressure to the situation?
 
WOODY WILLIAMS: Me personally, no.  It was weird always facing the Diamondbacks, and it seems like in San Diego we played good enough to lose, the Diamondbacks came in on top.  In the heat of battle out there trying to win, anything can happen, a lot of it goes by the wayside.  I don't see any added incentive or anything other than to go out there and do what I can. 
 
Q.  Woody, I know you were real happy in San Diego, but the situation changed, you obviously weren't going to be in the playoffs.  How has that changed?
 
WOODY WILLIAMS: It's a dream of mine come true.  I was looking to be on the World Series team in Toronto in '93.  I wasn't on the roster.  All I care about was pitching post-season, and tomorrow I get my opportunity.  It was hard leaving San Diego, I've never had any problems and everyone has pretty much accepted me with open hands, Bruce Bochy, a good friend, a very fine manager.  And it was difficult to leave, but in the same sense at this time in my career, it was a great move for me and my family. 
 
Q.  A lot of people in St. Louis have compared your acquisition to them getting Will Clark last year.  Do you see any similarities and how do you react to that?
 
WOODY WILLIAMS: All I can react is take it as a compliment, because I know what kind of intense ballplayer he is and what he brings to a team.  I don't compare myself to anyone, but if they want to say that, then so be it.  I want to win.  I want to do everything I can to be on the team.  I mean, as far as being compared to anyone, like I said, I haven't heard it a lot, but at the same time, it would be a compliment. 
 
Q.  When July 31st passed, did you think there would be a chance you would still be moved?
 
WOODY WILLIAMS: One thing about San Diego, Kevin Towers was very personable.  When he felt he would be forced to move me, he let me know everything that was going on.  I kind of still knew that I was going to be traded before the deadline, the deal was in the works with the Cardinals.  It kind of made it an easy transition, because I knew I was going somewhere.  I just didn't know where. 
 
Q.  Is there a general feeling among the Cardinals if you get a split here you're in pretty good shape going home?
 
WOODY WILLIAMS: There has been a lot of talk about it.  I would feel we would be in pretty good shape, at least have a chance to go home and win a couple of ball games.  And I guess in this situation, that's all you can ask for. 
 
Q.  Instead of comparing yourself from now to July 31st, would you talk about the Cardinals clubhouse from July 31st to now?  And did you do anything when you first went in to change their attitude?
 
WOODY WILLIAMS: I don't know if it was so much that I did so much to change it.  When I walked into the Cardinals clubhouse after being in San Diego and not having a chance to win or move on to post-season.  It's the same kind of clubhouse in St. Louis as there was in San Diego.  When I got traded, it was just an unbelievable feeling I had, that was going to a ball club that had a chance to win.  And when I look around the clubhouse and see what kind of players are in there with me, it's for a fact you have a chance to win each and every game you're playing.  Me personally, I trust a positive and help any way I can, like I say, and that's where I'm there for my teammates.  And if it rubs off on them, then hopefully it will help. 
 
Q.  Everybody talks about St. Louis being a great baseball town.  What's been your impression of that now that you've gotten a taste of it?
 
WOODY WILLIAMS: The first start I had after I got traded, Tony came out and pulled me and I left to a standing ovation and I thought that would be the highlight of my year.  But the last game against Houston while I was there, I don't know how many people there were, but I thought they were everywhere, they were chanting my name, it was an incredible feeling.  You can only dream of that happening.  We didn't win so my emotions didn't run too high, but they've been good and they know baseball.  They appreciate the home team and visiting team, good plays, and they just know the game and they love it.  It's a definitely a great place to be. 
 
Q.  What's the one key to facing the Arizona lineup?
 
WOODY WILLIAMS: I think keeping Tony Womack off the bases early and just pretty much making pitches and executing the game plan that I'll have when I go out there tomorrow. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT