DIAMOND RESORTS TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 23, 2021
Larry Fitzgerald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Same question, Larry.  What was it like watching somebody shoot 60?
 LARRY FITZGERALD:   It was a pure courtesy and joy to be able to watch somebody have it going like that.  I've seen a lot people playing well, but to see her demeanor, how she was completely engaged and staying in the moment was so much fun.
 I'm so happy Bret and I were able to see it in person.
 Q. What was your favorite shot of hers today?
 LARRY FITZGERALD:   The shot she hit on 17.  She had about 200 yards in, you know, a long carry, two-tiered green.  She stood up there and hit that shot and it did not move one iota, and then rolled that putt in.
 The shot she hit on 18 was unbelievable.  She played the contour of the greens, she hit it exactly where she wanted, and left herself below the hole.  It was mastery at its finest.  She had complete command of her ball today.
 Q. Real quickly for people who never tune in to LPGA golf, what would you say to them about what they're missing?
 LARRY FITZGERALD:   I watch more LPGA golf than I probably do PGA Tour golf.  The way they're able to hit consistent fairways and greens in regulation, it's an unbelievable sport, and to see it done at the highest level today only reaffirms just how talented and how skilled these young ladies are?
 Q. When people throw a no-hitter in baseball you try and stay away from that player.
 LARRY FITZGERALD:   Yes.
 Q. Were you and Bret talking about it and trying to do the numbers?
 LARRY FITZGERALD:   Yeah, I picked up on 16 and 18 I picked up on 18 just so I didn't mess up the flow.  I just wanted her to be comfortable and stay in her routine, and I just didn't want to do -- I think once we probably got about to 13 or 14 and saw her picking up steam, you just don't talk to her unless she talks to you.
 You just want to make sure you're doing everything you could to just cheer her on and root her in strong.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT