MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 16, 2015
Sarah Kemp
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   A little frustrated coming off 9 there, but have to be pretty happy overall at least. 
SARAH KEMP:   Yeah, I am.   It was, yeah, disappointing finish with a bogey, but if someone said, Will you take 4‑under at the beginning of the day I would've said yes.
I played really well my front nine, which was the back nine.   Yeah, I was not as good the front nine which was my last nine, but, no, I'm happy.   I'll take it.

Q.   You can't win the tournament on day one, but you have to feel good with the position you put yourself in, right? 
SARAH KEMP:   Exactly, yes.   Yeah, if someone said, Will you take 4‑under I would've taken it.   I putted really well on the front.   I didn't hole as many on my back, but I hit it solid. 
It was just nice and steady.   There was nothing really crazy, other than the last.   But, yeah. 

Q.   When you were trying to save par there, how relieved were you when you found the pin?
SARAH KEMP:   Very.   Yeah, it was a funny lie.   I had a bad lie for the first chip.   I shouldn't have been there in the first place. 
But it was two kind of funky lies.   Yeah, to walk off with 5, I'll take it.

Q.   Disappointed the hole‑in‑one didn't happen on 14?
SARAH KEMP:   How close it did it get? 

Q.   It was pretty close. 
SARAH KEMP:   Yeah, I heard it was really close.   Yeah, that would've been nice. 
I actually had a hole‑in‑one in the Pro‑Am here last year.   It would've been nice to get another one, but it's being.   I made birdie.

Q.   You're struggled this year.   How does it feel to put together a real good round?
SARAH KEMP:   Really good.   My caddie and I were actually talking before we tee'd off, you know, like, Let's try and get‑‑ I had talked about how I hadn't had a 4‑ 5‑under in a while.   We actually said that to each other and that was the plan today, so it was nice to pull it off. 
Yeah, it's confidence.   Like you said, I have had an inconsistent year, some good and some bad.   Hopefully, yeah, the rest of the three days I can keep it up.

Q.   What built your confidence today?
SARAH KEMP:   I don't know.   Just kind of happened.   I had a really chill morning.   I watched the golf and just kind of relaxed.
I think that's probably when I play my best.   I think I can get a little quick and a little fast, so I had a really chill morning.   It kind of continued out here, so that was nice. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT