LPGA STATE FARM CLASSIC
June 9, 2011
Sarah Kemp
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome our current leader, Sarah Kemp, into the interview room. Congratulations on your 66 today.
 SARAH KEMP: Thanks.
 MODERATOR: Just take me through your round a little bit and what was working well for you out there today.
 SARAH KEMP: Most things, really. I drove the ball well. Only I bad drive I hit was on 18 today, but I made a good up-and-down. I putted well.
 I hit a couple shots off into the green, but I managed to get up-and-down. So, I mean, I'd probably put it to the putting skill. I didn't hit it spectacularly close, but I holed the putts.
 MODERATOR: It's been hot out there. How was the heat affecting you? Did it affect you at all today? It sure doesn't look like it.
 SARAH KEMP: Yeah, it wasn't too bad. Probably the first nine holes it looked like we were going to get some weather coming through. The clouds covered the sun a little bit.
 But the back nine it got -- embarrassed to lift up my arm. (Laughter.) Got a bit of sweat there. But, yeah, it's pretty hot out there. I'm glad I tee'd off this morning. I'm going to have the hot tomorrow afternoon.

 Q. You said you didn't hit any of your birdies today, maybe you didn't hit any of them I think you said spectacularly close. Were you making mid-range putts?
 SARAH KEMP: 10-footers, 12-footers. I made, you know, a 30-footers. So I didn't hit any kind of 2-footers, but I putted well to hole enough 10- to 12-footers for birdie.

 Q. You said one 30-footer. Where was that? Do you remember?
 SARAH KEMP: That par-5. Is it like 14? 15? 16? 13, yeah.

 Q. Could you describe it? Was it uphill or do you remember?
 SARAH KEMP: It was a downhill left to righter, and I bet my caddie actually. She's got a really nice watch that I want. I said as we were walking up, If I hole this putt you got to give me the watch.
 She said, Yeah yeah, sure. So I holed it and she gave me her watch. So I was pretty excited. I really wanted to hole that one a little bit more than any other.

 Q. Your caddie, what's her name?
 SARAH KEMP: Danielle Downey. She used to play out here. She lost her status last year, so just an odd week caddied for me in Mobile. We did well and made the Match Play, and I asked her to stay on and she said yes. It's been good.

 Q. You said she did play on the tour previously.
 SARAH KEMP: Yeah.

 Q. I know Brittany Lincicome was here yesterday, and A.J. Eathorne is caddying for her now. Having a caddie who has been out there and been a player, how important is that so far working with Danielle?
 SARAH KEMP: For me, I actually traveled with her last year when she played and got to know her game really well. She has a really similar game to mine, so a lot of the time, I'm like, Okay, what would you do? And I'll just do the same thing because I know that we've got a really similar game.
 So in that aspect it really helps. And, yeah, you know, being inside the ropes, you know, she knows what she wanted as a caddie, so she gives that exactly to me. So it's really good.

 Q. What's her last name again?
 SARAH KEMP: Downey.

 Q. On 18, I saw where you were after your second shot. Where was your drive?
 SARAH KEMP: In the first part at right. I had about 180 to the flag. I couldn't get there, so I just hit a 6 out, a 6-iron, to probably about, what, 45 short.
 My chip was a little bit short. Probably had a 12-footer coming back up the hill and I holed that one, so it was nice.

 Q. You were talking about how well the putting was going. How much of a difference does that make in a round when you feel like you're...
 SARAH KEMP: Everything.

 Q. ...making long putts?
 SARAH KEMP: Yeah, you can hit it to four and five feet all day and only make a couple of those, so putting is everything out there.

 Q. I think if I read it right, I think it was maybe your low round this year. Does that sound right, 66?
 SARAH KEMP: Low round in the States it is, yes.

 Q. In the States. But have you had quite an Australian...
 SARAH KEMP: Yeah, I've been playing a little bit on the LET, and I've had -- in Australia this year I had a 7-under, and few weeks back I had 6-under in Portugal. So that's okay.

 Q. The players earlier in the week, the ones who have been here a number of times - it's been a wet spring - they thought the rough was maybe a little thicker than usual, although I think they mowed it a little bit. Compared to a few days ago, was it maybe a little shorter? Were you rough-wise in any trouble?
 SARAH KEMP: To be honest, I didn't even practice out of the rough during my Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday. Today I only hit it in it probably twice. I happened to have decent lies.
 But it actually does look like it's nasty, so I would probably say it is a little bit worse than other years.
 MODERATOR: Thank you very much, Sarah.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT