CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 26, 2010
Sarah Kemp
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. So nice start to the tournament here, 4-under with a birdie on 18. How did it go for you today?
 SARAH KEMP: Good. My putter, I think, was the 4-under today. I holed some really good putts, and I just kept it in play. The rough's pretty long, and I hit a lot of fairways. And yeah, it just happened.

 Q. How have you been playing this year? How is your game?
 SARAH KEMP: Pretty inconsistent. I've played well on occasions and then really bad, so I'm kind of looking for that consistency. I don't know how you practice that, though. I was speaking to my coach about that the other day. 
 But no, this is the first day, and I played well, so I'm just going to try and do the same thing again tomorrow.

 Q. Is there something about this course that you like?
 SARAH KEMP: Not really. I like Canada. It reminds me of home, being from Australia. So maybe that.

 Q. How does it remind you of home?
 SARAH KEMP: I think the people. Just, I mean everybody is really friendly. But here just the people, the hospitality has been extra, extra friendly. So yeah, it's just got that homely feeling about it.

 Q. Do you think going up 4-under today will help you if the wind keeps up? Was it getting tougher as the day went on?
 SARAH KEMP: It was pretty consistent all day I thought. We had some wind this morning even. I don't know what it's going to be like this afternoon. So it's a good score. I'm happy.

 Q. How long have you been on Tour? 
 SARAH KEMP: This is my third year.

 Q. What keeps you going?
 SARAH KEMP: I love golf. I miss home a lot. It's a long way for me to come. I love this, competing, and being on the LPGA. It's awesome.

 Q. Does it get tough?
 SARAH KEMP: Yeah, it does.

 Q. When you have the inconsistency and when you're in hotel rooms and you're not making cuts?
 SARAH KEMP: It does.

 Q. What's it like for somebody around your area of the Money List?
 SARAH KEMP: Just my parents always taught me to never give up, and you kind of look at the people that do, and I don't want to be like that, so even though I haven't had the best of years, it's going to happen. You just gotta stay patient, and I think that's what I've learned over the years. Good things are going to happen if you just keep putting yourself in situations. 
 And you know, I miss home immensely. I have a really big family. I just bought a place in Sydney, and I go back so much, and I just love golf. I want to keep doing it.

 Q. Does your mind ever wander after one round or have you been at this game too long?
 SARAH KEMP: What do you mean wander? 

 Q. How a good weekend could be?
 SARAH KEMP: No. I played well today. It's the first day. There's three more to go. You can't win a tournament on the first day. So no. I'm happy. I'm just going to go hit balls, have some lunch, call Sydney, Australia and have a good night's sleep.

 Q. That's home?
 SARAH KEMP: Yes.

 Q. One of your best rounds of the year?
 SARAH KEMP: Yeah. A couple of -- Toledo, Jamie Farr tournament I had a 6-under in the final round. That was I think my best of the year. So yeah this will be close to the next best.

 Q. What are some of the challenges when you come to the LPGA Tour and turn pro getting adjusted to that pro game?
 SARAH KEMP: Yeah, definitely. I went from being the No. 1 amateur in Australia and I went and played my first two years in the Europe, so you're like this big fish and then you go to this whole new world and you're this little fish again. So it's a pretty big adjustment, especially I think coming from Australia. I never went to college. 
 We had a system in Australia called the Australian Student Sport which kind of prepared you for professional golf. I don't think there's anything that can really prepare you for the LPGA. So yeah. 

 Q. What's the biggest thing you learned about yourself in those three years?
 SARAH KEMP: Patience. I think as an amateur, I wanted things so bad. You know, I was No. 1 in my country, and I just -- I'd get angry at myself if it didn't happen, and I think I've learned it's such a grind out here, you just gotta keep going and stay patient.

 Q. What's the toughest hole out there today?
 SARAH KEMP: That one, what is it? I think it's 12, dogleg-left. 

 Q. Oh, yeah. 
 SARAH KEMP: Is that it? Yeah. I think that's the hardest hole on the course. I hit a really good drive. You've gotta kind of hit a draw off the tee, and I hit a really long drive and I still had 180 to the pin, so it's almost like a par-5. But I made par. So that was good.

 Q. There you go. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT