LPGA CORNING CLASSIC
May 21, 2009
Sarah Kemp
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MIKE SCANLAN: So we'll start with your score card, see if you can remember it all. Eagle on five. 
 SARAH KEMP: I hit that drive, and I got lucky, hit the tree and came out, but I still had probably 220 to the green. I hit a heavy 3-wood to about 15 yards out and holed that.
 MIKE SCANLAN: Pulled in a wedge? 
 SARAH KEMP: 60 yards. A wedge, yeah.
 MIKE SCANLAN: Lob wedge. Birdie on 6.
 SARAH KEMP: 4-iron off the tee, 9-iron to about 12 foot past the hole, holed that.
 MIKE SCANLAN: Birdie on 7, the par-3.
 SARAH KEMP: Four-iron about a yard over the back 10 and holed about a 15, 20-footer, 16-footer.
 MIKE SCANLAN: Putt? 
 SARAH KEMP: Yes.
 MIKE SCANLAN: Okay. Birdie 10. 
 SARAH KEMP: Good drive and wedge to two foot.
 MIKE SCANLAN: And birdie on 14. 
 SARAH KEMP: Good drive, 7-iron, short of the water, 54 degree to about 12 foot, holed that.
 MIKE SCANLAN: All right, Sarah, nice round. 6-under par. You're the leader in the clubhouse. Just talk about your day, what you think of the course, the conditions and how you played. 
 SARAH KEMP: It was beautiful out there this morning. The greens were rolling really nice and really smooth. So I think that was definitely an advantage. The weather was perfect.
 I mean I got off to a good start. You know, the eagle, birdie, birdie made it nice, and then I just tried to play steady. I forgot about my score on the front nine and then just tried to have more birdies on the back. So I'm really happy.

 Q. You're in the lead. Have you ever been in this position on the LPGA TOUR?
 SARAH KEMP: I don't think so.

 Q. Just your thoughts on, at least for the moment, being in the lead and just your thoughts on being here. 
 SARAH KEMP: It's great. I'm happy to say. I try not to look at the leaderboard too much. I think that's been a problem the last year or so, so I just tried not to look at it today and just played golf, you know. I just went out there and tried to make birdies, not look at what other people are shooting and what's happening with my playing partner. So I think that really helped. So probably try and do that again the next three days, just play golf. 

 Q. Did you play this last year?
 SARAH KEMP: No. First year.

 Q. So this is your first year here. Does the course kind of suit your game?
 SARAH KEMP: It does. You don't have to hit it a long way, and I don't hit it very far. There's a lot of four irons, five woods off the tee, so that brings sort of everyone back to one position. 
 And yeah, it reminds me a little bit of where I grew up in Sydney, a course that I used to play, Beverly Park Golf Course. Just has that sort of feeling, sort of the tree line, and greens are pretty similar, and I feel really comfortable here.

 Q. Are you happy about how your season is going so far? You've made the cut in every event you've played in, right?
 SARAH KEMP: Yeah, I have. I've played decent in Mexico and Kingsmill, I played good for three days and then terrible for one. So same sort of thing last week. I had two good days, terrible Saturday and decent Sunday. 
 So I just want to try and stay consistent. There seems to be one bad round in there. But yeah, I'm hoping this is a starting round. But other than, pretty happy.

 Q. I know you said you weren't really watching, but right now there's a lot of players 5, 6-under. Do you expect it to be a lot of scoring coming pretty low?
 SARAH KEMP: Yeah. Definitely. You hit a lot of wedges out there, the second shot. So I expect it's probably going to be 20-under is going to win, even more I'm guessing. That's just a guess, but yeah. 

 Q. I'm looking over your season, and you didn't play in a lot of the earlier rounds. Have you been playing primarily overseas?
 SARAH KEMP: No. I had a conditional card, and I got into the first in Mexico. I didn't get into Phoenix, and what was after Phoenix? 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Kraft.
 SARAH KEMP: Yeah. I didn't make the money list for Kraft last year. And then Phoenix. And then I did the re-ranks, which moved me up, making the two cuts in Mexico put me up four or five places, which means now I made everything. 
 So yeah, it was just missed Phoenix and that was because of my status, but that's hopefully I think changed.

 Q. What in your game worked today that maybe hasn't been working? Again, you've made cuts but haven't really finished very high in the standings. Was the putting a little better today or the iron game?
 SARAH KEMP: The putter. I'm hitting the ball fairly well. I changed putters in Kingsmill and putted really solid. The greens were sort of same like here. 
 Last week I didn't putt well, didn't feel comfortable on the greens. I felt really bumpy, and yeah, today, I tried not -- being in the morning there was no bumps out there, and took advantage of that, so definitely the putting. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Sarah, thanks so much for coming in.
 SARAH KEMP: Thanks, guys. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT