LONGS DRUGS CHALLENGE
October 9, 2008
Sarah Kemp
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   SARAH KEMP: 14, I hit a 6-iron to a couple feet again, tap-in. 
 JASON TAYLOR: Birdie on 17.
 SARAH KEMP: 17, yeah, I hit my driver in the left rough. I wasn't sure how it was going to come out, but it checked up really nice and that was about a foot away. Another tap-in.
 JASON TAYLOR: Another birdie on 18.
 SARAH KEMP: Yeah, I hit a good drive, but I just caught the left rough, but I had a really good lie and I hit 9-iron to about six foot and put that one in.
 On 3, yeah, I hit a bad drive and pulled it left and it went out of bounds. I just parred the hole from there and made double. 
 I hit another bad tee shot off No.4, but I got up-and-down. So it was a bit shaky. 
 But then I made a good par on 5 and then birdied 6 and 7, so...
 6, I hit driver but it went in one of the bunkers about 50 yards short of the green. I just got up and up-and-down, and I hit lob wedge to about four or five foot and holed that one.
 7, yeah, I hit 6-iron to about six foot and holed that one. 
 JASON TAYLOR: Questions. 

 Q. 4-under today. You are one back from the lead right now in the clubhouse. You got to be happy with your performance today. 
 SARAH KEMP: Yeah, no, really happy. It's been a while since I've had a really good score like this. I hit a lot of good shots and I putted really well, so I'm looking forward to tomorrow.

 Q. Finishing kind of early today since you were in the morning tee off. What do you do the rest of the day?
 SARAH KEMP: I am gonna have some lunch and probably do some practice, hit some balls, and do some putting. 
 I have to do some rookie hours. I'm way behind in that, so I'll probably do some of that stuff. 

JASON TAYLOR: Well, you have all day, so... 
 SARAH KEMP: Exactly.

 Q. Kind of chilly this morning, and then it quickly heated up a little bit. How is the course, just the weather factor into your game? 
 SARAH KEMP: It was fine. It was playing nice. The greens are really good. They had no tear on them because we were sort of first out. 
 Yes, it was cold the first five holes, and then the sun came out and it was fine. The wind started to pick up on the last few holes, and hopefully it blows even harder this afternoon. No, you know, I'm sure I'm probably gonna have some wind tomorrow afternoon. But the course is great. 
 JASON TAYLOR: All right. Great. Thanks so much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT