U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 27, 2003
Bruce Lietzke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Bruce, tell us about your round today, please?
BRUCE LIETZKE:  Even par.  Nothing happened.  I could have stayed in my hotel room, mailed in my scores.  I had a 71 and boy it was all over the place, bogeys, birdies, double bogeys.  But that's kind of what a golf course like this and a set up like this is going to bring you and so it's no surprise it's -- I don't think anybody went out there and made a whole lot of pars for the last two days.  I don't think anybody will go out and make a whole lot of pars.  You are going to make some mistakes out there.  Unfortunately mine came late in the day.  I played really good early on and made a few mistakes coming in to break my score back down to even and 2-under for the tournament.  So not bad after 36 holes. 

Q.  Were you doing a lot of scoreboard watching?
BRUCE LIETZKE:  Not a lot; I'm doing a little.  It's only Friday.  They don't pass out trophies and money on Friday so watching the scoreboard doesn't mean a whole lot.  I glanced at it a few times just to see how Tom -- and what the field was doing today -- fully expecting that nobody was going shoot a low round and nobody did.  You check the scoreboard every once in a while just to see if there is a real low round going out there.  At one time I had a pretty nice round going.

Q.  Bruce, is it a little disappointing  that you mentioned a little bit of a late stumble, are you philosophical about it that you know it's going to come?
BRUCE LIETZKE:  No.  Like I said, I got few under par yesterday.  Those are like markers in your pocket; you know you are going to cash those markers in sometime during a Senior Open like this.  I grabbed some more today.  You have to make your share of birdies because everybody is going to make bogeys out there and the bogeys aren't surprises.  You are not surprised when you make a bogey and it's not real surprising when a double bogey jumps up there on you.  So I'm pretty happy just to grab those birdies when I can because I know it's going to offset some of the mistakes I made.

Q.  What's the condition of the golf course today?
BRUCE LIETZKE:  A little wetter.  You couldn't bounce the ball into the green on some of the par-3s. It took me a while to figure that out.  My tee shots were not rolling or releasing like they were yesterday. Probably not much more than that.  There was more wind than there was yesterday morning so the wind was little more of a factor.
The golf course got some wet, so water, it played a little damn per, no standing water or anything but it was playable. 

Q.  Can you rate these greens, are they the hardest you played this year, the hardest that have been on the Senior Tour?
BRUCE LIETZKE:  As far as putting?

Q.  Yes?
BRUCE LIETZKE:  It's the hardest I played this year.  They are not as hard as Augusta, they are not as hard as Muirfield Village.  Probably a few other greens out there that are tougher than they also. They will probably be the toughest we see all year.

Q.  The greens, are they at the proper speed given the amount  --
BRUCE LIETZKE:  I would say they are at the proper speed right now.  I think if they get any faster it will start bordering on ludicrous. 

Q.  Arthur Hill, is the guy that designed the course picked you to win the tournament; do you have any of thoughts on that?
BRUCE LIETZKE:  No, don't know him.  I thought this golf course was built long before he was around.

Q.  He redesigned it?
BRUCE LIETZKE:  No.

Q.  Maybe Donald Ross picked you then?
BRUCE LIETZKE:  Yes, in 1925 if Donald Ross had picked me I might be impressed by that.




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT