WNBA PRE-DRAFT MEDIA CONFERENCE CALL
April 2, 2019
Cheryl Reeve
Derek Fisher
Katie Smith
Bill Laimbeer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Welcome, everybody, and we're going to get right to it with the question and answers.
Q. I'd like to hear from Bill and from Derek about what their thoughts are on Alanna Smith from Stanford, and also Ezi Magbegor, who's been playing in the WNBL all year in Australia.
BILL LAIMBEER: Smith, shooter.  I pick No. 1, so she's not on our radar.  I don't anticipate her going that far down to be in the mix of looking at her.
As for the Australian kid, same thing.  I don't have any [other] picks.  All I have is the No. 1 overall pick, so I really haven't paid that much attention to her.
DEREK FISHER: Yes, Alanna Smith is a really talented player.  She's really versatile, which I think will be great for her transition into the WNBA, regardless of where she's drafted.  She has a skill set that I think will fit in on any roster basically.  And Ezi Magbegor, who's a little bit younger and still developing as a player, but at 6-3, 6-4, she plays big.  She has long arms and plays the game with a high activity level that I think also will work well for her as she transitions.
Q. What do you think of South Carolina's Alexis Jennings?  Does she have a chance to get drafted, and if so, how high?
CHERYL REEVE: Sure, Alexis is a player we've watched for a couple years now.  She has the size, has some skill in the post.  I would say that her draft stock probably has remained the same from last year, when she could have entered, to this year.  She's a player that I think will be drafted.  The difficulty will be can she make a team, and that's going to be true for at least half of the players in the draft.
BILL LAIMBEER: I'll say the same thing I did before: not on our radar.  But as Cheryl said, it's so hard to make a team in this league right now that you may even see some first-rounders not making it.
Q. Katie and Cheryl, how much does the postseason make or break a player in your opinion, or what does the overall scouting over the season do for their stock prospects?
KATIE SMITH: Honestly, I think it's the overall history of watching that player, whether it's mostly this year or over the last few years as they have gone through their career.  I think if there are players that are close and that you're trying to differentiate between, I think the postseason can maybe help that.  But I think overall, I don't think we really have knee-jerk reactions to like a game or two in a postseason when you've watched them that long.
CHERYL REEVE: I think that this year in particular, I think that there's a body of work, but I don't think that there's anybody in the draft that maybe would have gotten an NCAA Tournament bump.  I think that all of these players that have gotten this far have all been kind of evaluated thoroughly.  I think in years past we've seen that, but I don't think it's happening in this year's draft.
Q. I would be appreciative of anyone with a thought about Utah's Megan Huff.
CHERYL REEVE: Megan Huff is a skilled post player that I've really enjoyed watching.  I think Utah's evolution as a team, she's been a big part of that.  It's a team that was hot early on and sort of cooled off, but I think Megan's skill set is really interesting, a big that can shoot the three.  She has some agility.  Just an overall good basketball player.  I would say that she's in a category, there's probably a handful of players that you go, they've got a skill set but can they athletically be able to translate to the WNBA and still do those things.  She's somebody that is on our radar, for sure, but where she goes in the draft, if she gets drafted, the challenge will be, again, can this player carve out a spot on a WNBA team.
Q. What are your thoughts on University of Texas's Danni Williams and her chances of possibly being a late-round pick?
KATIE SMITH: She's a shooter, a smooth basketball player.  Similar to what Cheryl said about Megan.  Drafted maybe toward the second and third rounds, and being able to make a team is just going to be the toughest thing.  But she can flat-out shoot it, just a smooth, decent basketball player.
Q. Cheryl and Katie, Megan Gustafson is obviously one of the most dominant players this year.  What are the biggest things that you've seen with her game, and where kind of her stock is at right now?
CHERYL REEVE: Being regionally near us, we've watched her for a long, long time.  I've really enjoyed her college career and have watched her grow up.  I think the thing that I like about Megan the most is how coachable and how competitive she is.  I think that gives her a chance to possibly do well at the next level.  I think that only being 6-3 and doing what she does I think is probably where we kind of go, okay, where does she fit in, is she a center or is she a power forward.  I think she's very aware she's going to have to step away from the basket.  I think we've seen her to do that a little bit, be able to play from the foul line.  But I think if you look at a player that's passionate for the game and has a work ethic, there's a chance she could improve in those areas that really make her a viable pick.
KATIE SMITH: Yeah, I agree with what Cheryl said.  I've called games and seen her since she was a freshman, and just the consistency she has and the way she finishes around the rim if she gets any daylight, she's really automatic.  As Cheryl said, just loves the game, a great teammate, somebody who's going to show up for you every day, whether it's game or practice, and I know she'll be hungry to try to make a spot.  Where she fits, that's the question.  But she's got a shot because she's worked her tail off.
Q. Bill and Cheryl, my question to you as the two veterans of this drafting, is this one of the most wide-open drafts you can remember, especially now that there are potentially other players that could enter the draft later on and trades that could still happen?  Do you think it's one of the most wide-open drafts as far as what could happen?
BILL LAIMBEER: Yes.  There's no A'ja Wilson in this draft.  We're sitting here with the No. 1 pick looking at, okay, what is what.  There's no question we are out in the marketplace right now, looking to maybe move it, move down.  There are multiple choices at the top that can be had, depending on who's picking.  [Asia] Durr is a logical person at the top of the draft.  Some teams may want to move up and take her, or the big kid from Mississippi State [Teaira McCowan].  There's a lot of stuff or a lot of talk that's going to happen this week about who, what, where, how.
CHERYL REEVE: Yeah, I agree with Bill.  Essentially, and I said this earlier in the season, that I felt like anyone that's going to go in the top five probably at one point would have been in consideration for the top pick.  So as Bill said, there's not that sort of generational player, an A'ja Wilson that's clear-cut, but I feel there's a fair amount of really good players who will have great careers in our league.  There is always going to be somebody that really surprises you that probably reaches near that elite level, but I'd say from that point from what we can tell of their college careers, there's a handful that will be All-Stars.  Will they be the elite?  Probably not, but this is a heck of a draft in terms of getting a very good player.
Q. This is a question for Coach Fisher and maybe Coach Laimbeer if you want to weigh in.  There is a lot of chatter that Liz Cambage wants to go to Los Angeles but also that Las Vegas wanted to trade for her.  Obviously we don't know how that all stands right now, but from both of your standpoints, has the uncertainty about where she might play or if she's going to play this season impacted what you guys do with your draft?
DEREK FISHER: I'll go first since I'm the younger and way less experienced guy here, and then Bill can follow up.  For me, it's easy because of [this being] my first year and being the head coach only and not really having the responsibilities in terms of roster, draft, trade conversations, et cetera.  Bill will be talking more to Penny [Toler], and Penny will be talking more to [the] Dallas [Wings], et cetera.
So for me, I'm more focused on the players we do have and preparing our season in that regard.  In terms of planning for Liz playing or not, yes, because if she's in Dallas, you have to plan accordingly to play against her.  In terms of her possibly being on our roster at some point, I can't really comment on -- it's more of, like I said, Bill may have more insight because of his role there in Las Vegas and being involved in those conversations.
BILL LAIMBEER: This is interesting.  Lots of rumors.  We got thrown in the rumor mix about Liz.  The media likes to pump up big stories.  There are a million rumors that are out there, from tampering to all kinds of stuff.  It's a weird scenario going on right now that I don't think anybody really has a handle on what the final outcome is going to be.
Q. Katie, what kind of new direction do you think this program will give for your rookies, and how confident are you coming into your new season?
KATIE SMITH: I think we have a renewed sense of excitement, kind of getting past the limbo of being up for sale.  New ownership has given us a little bit of a jolt, new direction, on the upswing.  But we're anxious to build.  Last year was a tough year overall, but I think we have some really solid pieces coming.  I know we're going to get a solid piece in the draft.  Constantly looking and seeing what can happen in this last week and all the way up until the season starts.
Feel really excited about some of the pieces -- Kia Nurse, Bria Hartley, Tina [Charles], what [Amanda] Zahui B did last year.  Ready to get back to work.  I'm really focusing on doing the work every single day and then hopefully seeing the outcome when we get out there for games.
Q. Derek, I'm curious what intrigues you about some of the players available from China in this year's draft.  I know one of the players, Han Xu, has been training in L.A..  I'm curious if you've seen her in person.  And also, do you think that since so many WNBA players in recent years have gone over there in the winter if you think they're kind of elevating or kind of helping out in terms of homegrown talent getting better competition there to come over here?
DEREK FISHER: I have not gotten a chance to see Han in person, but in terms of following her, Nneka Ogwumike, who played in China and her team won a championship over there, watched a lot more of their games and activity.  Some of the other coaches mentioned here on the call, it's an interesting year for players that don't have -- even if you actually are a clear-cut draft pick, wherever you go in terms of your number, due to the way our rosters are constructed, mine in particular, it's just going to be really hard to stick.  There's just not a lot of space roster-wise for multiple players in the draft to actually still be on the team.
She has the ability, the potential -- obviously the size is very rare in our game.  I'm not sure where she will possibly get drafted or maybe even undrafted and still be on a training camp roster and try to give it a go.  But I think it's clear that there's going to be, I think, more players feeling comfortable that are from overseas, China, et cetera, looking to find their way to possibly have an imprint or an impact in the WNBA at some point.
BILL LAIMBEER: I'm not involved.
CHERYL REEVE: I would say I have a unique perspective with my USA Basketball experience and seeing China so much over the last, I don't know, four or so years.  I think for sure, I think that the talent is increasing.  I think that China is on the verge of having a couple of players in the league that will be a part of teams.  Again, this is a really difficult league.  I think that the couple players in this draft, whether it's Han or whether it's Li Yueru, these are some good post players, and I think teams have a need in that area.  These players work very, very hard.  They're very young with some serious upside, and again, just having seen them on the national team, this is a league that I think they could be comfortable in if they get the opportunity.
Q. This question is for any of you other than maybe Bill, but how do you sue Anriel Howard and Caliya Robinson fitting into the WNBA and being able to make their mark on a team?
KATIE SMITH: Anriel Howard is unique, and she definitely has a skill set that she can bring to the league, and that's her rebounding and activity level, but she's also shown that she can stretch the defense by shooting the 3 ball.  What position -- does somebody have an opening at the 3 or the 4, can she guard some of these bigs.  I think she can hang with some of the guards, but I think she's going to -- she will come in and be a problem to play against because she just does not stop.
Caliya Robinson is long.  Probably not the same motor as Howard, but is skilled.  Also can shoot it a little bit but can rebound.  Just a little different motor compared to Anriel, but obviously the size and the length, a little bit more than what Howard has.  But I think they both have a shot to get drafted, and I think Howard has a chance to be a problem if she can stick on a team.
Q. My question is for Bill and Katie because you guys have picks toward the top of the draft.  Obviously, Bill, you have the first pick.  How much have you guys been looking at Mississippi State's Teaira McCowan and what do you think she can bring to the WNBA?
BILL LAIMBEER: Well, you know, I need a center obviously and a guard, so we've been looking at a couple options.  We've also been talking to many teams about moving the top pick.  There is interest from some teams that they want -- they think McCowan is going to cement their inside game.  There are other teams that like Durr, who can really go get her own shot.  But sticking with McCowan, it's a weird draft.  If she doesn't get taken by a certain team at the right time, she could fall further down the draft.  It's just one of those things where it's unpredictable at the moment and nobody can really get their fingers on things.
KATIE SMITH: Yeah, she's been in our talks, similar to Bill, as a productive center.  But I think she does what she does well.  Her presence is known when she plays.  Her rebounding, taking up space.  If you don't have a body on her, she's going to basically be up under the rim and getting rebounds or put-backs.  So I think she does what she does really, really well, blocking shots, really kind of clogging up the middle.
Obviously you think about what she'd do with guarding a [Breanna] Stewart, a post player, just how that translates.  But she definitely does what she does really, really well, and that's her size, put-backs and rebounding.
Q. Cheryl and Bill, Caliya Robinson's name came up earlier.  I was wondering how you guys think her game translates to the WNBA, and how much of an advantage does her ability to play on the defensive side of the ball help her chances?
CHERYL REEVE: She's a player that has a unique skill set in that she's got nice touch away from the basket.  As you mentioned, probably defensively that would be her biggest area of strength, the way that Georgia has played, I think that has positioned her well to be a shot blocker.
There are certainly some other areas of concern, again, that our league is difficult, and a motor I think is important to be able to compete with the post players we have in our league.
And then it's just around the basket, she's not somebody that gets fouled very often.  So I think she has a very unique skill set but she will have to do more to have a chance to be successful in our league.
BILL LAIMBEER: I'll piggy-back on what Cheryl said.
Q. This is a question for Katie Smith.  I know you mentioned all the talent at the top of the draft, and with the No. 2 pick, I'm wondering, what do you see as the value in drafting a post player versus a guard like Asia Durr?
KATIE SMITH: Value?  I don't really want to tip my hand.  But no, we have --
BILL LAIMBEER: We all know who you're picking.
KATIE SMITH: [Laughing] Okay, good, now that we've got that out of the way.  But the guards in this draft are solid.  Similar, you know, talent levels, different skill sets, like they're different.  Like Durr and Arike [Ogunbowale], those guys, one is a little bit more of a put your head down and go.  Durr is a little bit more finesse and methodical, but I think they're really, really good guards and they'll be really good pros.  It's a little bit of a toss up.  McCowan is in that mix, but I like the guards and what they do and kind of their ability to score at all levels.  Obviously looking for them to play a little more defense at the next level.  I know they have to be on the floor in the college game, but I think they're really talented.
Q. Coach Fisher, in regard to Maria Vadeeva, she was a rookie last year, came in in the middle of the season, and she didn't get her feet wet because she had visa issues before she came.  But now that she's had half a year last year in LA, she's playing really well in Russia so far during the WNBA off-season, what kind of impact do you think she can make on the court this season for the Sparks?
DEREK FISHER: Thank you for your question.  I really like Maria a lot.  Just being a lefty alone, we have to stick together.  So I'm always going to try to stick up for my lefties.  But Maria, when I really dove in to watching a lot of film, she always jumped out to me in particular on the defensive end because she was always in the right spots and really does a good job of rotating, of using the rule of verticality to contest shots at the rim.  Her pick-and-roll defense, she's just always in the right spots on that end of the floor, and then offensively she's shown flashes of improving and getting better in terms of being able to shoot the ball a little bit outside of the paint but also understanding how to use her size and her frame to get efficient shots around the basket.
And then she's really taken a big jump this off-season or the WNBA off-season at least, playing in Russia, and her team is playing well, and she's playing great basketball, as well.  I'm excited for what she's going to bring in terms of our depth in the frontcourt.  I mean, we obviously have a great frontcourt to start with, but I think Maria is going to add value for us in a major way in terms of her skills, what she can do around the basket, and really in particular on the defensive end.
Q. Cheryl and Katie, I was wondering how you see Bridget Carleton's game translating to the WNBA.
CHERYL REEVE: Bridget is somebody that I commented on early in the season.  I think that her stock has certainly gone up.  I think that's a player that's really played her way into not only being drafted but positioned herself probably at least in the second round.  I think there might be a few that she's on the board in their later first-round picks.  She certainly can shoot the darned thing, but I think what she's really shown is she's creative in the way that she can score.  She can score around the basket.  I think the question mark would certainly be a level of athleticism.  This is a great league.  These are some of the best athletes in the world in this sport.  That will be her challenge, but again, that's another player I had a chance to see for the Canadian national team.  So to see her be successful, I will say that she's been successful at the 4 spot as opposed to the position that I think she'll probably play in our league, which is a small forward, and sometimes that's a difficult transition for players to make, but I think this is a player that's pretty skilled.
Q. Cheryl, you played Ezi Magbegor at the World Cup as part of USA Basketball.  What did you make of her World Cup performances, and how did it affect her draft stock?
CHERYL REEVE: She's a player that's definitely younger.  She didn't earn minutes in terms of the quality part of the game, if you will.  It was more when her team was up by a lot.  So that's hard to tell in terms of what is she capable of doing.  I think Alanna Smith was really, really good, and that was a player that was playing in front of her.  It's a young player that certainly has some upside.  If she was not injured over in the Australian league, it probably would have helped her a little bit more in terms of raising her stock.
But I think that people have a handle for her, and I think she'd be a value pick outside of the first round, and I think that's probably where you'll see her go.
Q. This question is for Coach Derek Fisher.  I was wondering if you got a chance to check out a couple of USC prospects, Aliyah Mazyck and Mariya Moore, and what you think about their games and if they can make an impact on a WNBA roster.
DEREK FISHER: Yes, thanks for asking.  I've gotten a chance to see a lot of USC basketball obviously living in Los Angeles and gotten a chance to watch them play as other Pac-12 teams come through LA.  Got a chance to see both of them a lot.  It's a challenging year, I would say, for players that are not clearly at the top of the list in terms of sure first-round picks.  Just, again, due to the numbers and the way rosters are constructed.  But I think both players have the potential to have an impact on a WNBA roster at some point, it's just a matter of where and when.  Whether it's with us or in the other team, I don't think it's a question of any of the players we talk about today or these two in particular not having the ability to translate in terms of shooting the ball, handling the basketball, et cetera.  But it's a tough league, and I'm learning that very quickly.  There's just not a lot of spots for good players.  We'll just have to wait and see for each of these two.
Q. Derek or Katie, Cierra Dillard, a guard from the University of Buffalo, how do you project her future at the WNBA level, and what does she have to do to prepare herself for the NBA after being such a prolific scorer in the MAC?
KATIE SMITH: The last two years has put herself on the map, making that run last year in the tournament and also this year.  She is just an uncanny way of being able to get her shot off without necessarily elevating on her shots, her range, different finishes, but she's also a really exceptional passer, so she just has great vision and basketball IQ.
Obviously defensively, again, a lot of these kids have to be on the floor for their teams to be successful.  It's being able to keep people in front, and that will be something to really see if she can do that.  But I think offensively she knows how to play the game and knows how to get shots off, over taller people, quicker folks, but she really has made a name for herself.  But again, it's going to be tough to make a team, depending on where she goes, who they have in the spots.  But I'm sure she'll compete and give it everything she needs and just show what she can do.
Q. I was wondering with respect to Asia Durr if you think she's a player who could come in and immediately work her way into the starting five or if there's any areas of her game she still needs to develop in order to be able to do that.
BILL LAIMBEER: The starting five, to what level or what degree is up to her and how she transitions into the WNBA.  But she's a very fine player.  She's one of the few players that can go get her own shot on a consistent and quality basis.  Whether she's a starter, that's a tough one.  You've got to go out and actually throw the ball up in training camp and see who wins.  But she's on our radar, there's no question about that.  A guard who can get her own shot is something we don't really have, so she's right there for us.
Q. Cheryl, I'd love to get your thoughts on Napheesa Collier, and Bill, I was curious if you'd seen Mizzou's Sophie Cunningham play.  She has a knack for playing very, very intense and I wonder if you'd appreciated her style of play.
BILL LAIMBEER: I'll take that one first.  Yeah, she's a quality basketball player.  She's not afraid.  She goes out there, she's smart, she involves her teammates.  She makes big shots.  Her physical capabilities are going to be wildly tested in this league.  There's so many players that are big, fast and strong and can shoot, so it's a competition at her position will be enormous.
She's a competitor, and yeah, I've seen her play, and I like how she plays, but she's got to still come make a roster and still got to make playing time.
CHERYL REEVE: Before I answer on Napheesa, I would encourage you guys to listen more closely and assign the quotes correctly to myself and Katie.  I think we're getting crossed up.  I'm seeing things on Twitter being assigned to me that are not my quotes.  I want Katie to get the credit for the things she's saying.
Napheesa Collier is a tremendous basketball player.  My experience with USA Basketball gave me the opportunity to see the things that she can do and how versatile she is, and she's not limited in terms of the position that she can play.  She's anywhere from -- I think at Connecticut, at times she played the 5, but a 4.  She's a little undersized there, but I think she's shown the ability from a length standpoint and her ability to rebound the ball and deflect.  This is a quality basketball player that will have her work cut out for her as a small forward in this league, but I saw her do that for the national team.
This is a player that's going to do well for a long, long time and have a great career in the WNBA.
Q. My question is for Katie Smith.  The New York Liberty signed French guard Marine Johannes last month.  What are you expecting her to bring to the team this season?
KATIE SMITH: You know, obviously she'll be overseas for a year of training with the French team, so we won't have her until July at some point.  But she's a scorer, can obviously shoot it, has the athleticism to get to the rim and I think finishes really well.  Solid size.  Again, interested to see how she'll do playing and practicing every day in the WNBA with the physicality and the size, quickness, and curious about the defensive side of the ball.  But at the end of the day, she can flat-out score, can shoot it, can stretch the defense, and looking forward to actually having her compete with the players on the team and see how she does against them.
Q. This question is for Bill and Katie.  You guys have had a lot of experience with players from the University of Connecticut, mostly with the New York Liberty.  I know Katie had Kia Nurse last year and you both worked with Tina Charles.  You worked with Bria Hartley, you worked with Kiah Stokes.  So how can you compare the Connecticut ladies that you've worked with to say the Connecticut ladies coming into this draft now in Napheesa and Katie Lou Samuelson?
BILL LAIMBEER: Well, both coming in as quality trained basketball players.  They play in a high-intensity environment.  They play basketball the right way, involving all your teammates.  They play on both sides of the ball.  They understand how to play basketball, and that's a huge factor in any basketball player.  If you understand the game of basketball and how to play basketball, that's a solid plus.  There's athletes playing basketball and there's basketball players, and the people that come out of Connecticut are basketball players.
KATIE SMITH: Yeah, I agree with Bill.  I think that's something that we all can say for them.  But also they can handle the rigor of the WNBA, the highs and lows, the toughness of practice.  They know how to kind of push through both mentally and physically to compete and stay locked in and be able to do their jobs.
Q. Bill, is Arike on your radar at No. 1, and can you break down her game a little bit?  And then can someone talk about the two bigs at Notre Dame, Breanna Turner and Jessica Shepard?
BILL LAIMBEER: Arike is a solid scorer, big-shot player, obviously.  At No. 1?  It's probably a stretch.  Again, I'm waiting and talking to people.  I need a guard, and if I get some deals, we'll move down.  How far down is open for debate.  But yeah, she's a quality player, and I'd like to have her on my basketball team.  I'm just not sure what's going to happen in the first round of the draft.
CHERYL REEVE: Brianna Turner and Jessica Shepard, I think without those two, there's no way that Notre Dame was as successful as it has been last year, this year, with Turner being out, now you add that.  This is a really good basketball team that has a chance to win the whole thing, largely because of what Jess Shepard and Turner have done from a rebounding standpoint.  Arike is not always very efficient in her field goal percentage, and I think that they just are huge Band-Aids for Notre Dame's offense.  You saw in the first half last night, when they don't get opportunities in the paint, this is a team that's very vulnerable to losing.
I think they just have a relentlessness about them that's really fun to watch.  I'm sure for Muffet [McGraw], it's fun to have on her team.
Q. Derek, with this being your first year with the team trying to implement your schemes and your philosophies, you obviously have a lot of set players with a lot of talent but also some question marks there on the roster with some unsigned players.  With the seventh pick in a pretty deep draft, how much do you balance trying to find a player that fits what you're trying to do and what you need on your roster versus just taking the best player that's available at that slot?
DEREK FISHER: Yes, that's a great question.  Thank you for asking it.  You know, that's the tough balance that we're going to try to strike.  Like you said, we have some unsigned players that we're still hoping to sign, and our roster is going to be rounded out pretty good.  So even for our pick at No. 7, she's going to have a hard time just breaking through in terms of opportunity and minutes with the type of veterans we have at every position.
But I think it's important to draft a player that you think will be the right fit for who you are as a team, my leadership style, our roster, the personalities we have and the skill sets that we have.  We'll have a lot of discussion, and we'll hopefully try and make the right decision at No. 7, but as these coaches know, there's no guarantee.  I mean, there will be players that are picked at 1 or players that are picked at 22 that because of who they are individually, it's why they ultimately end up having a great career.
So you know, we're going to try and do the right thing in terms of strike that balance, but I personally lean towards fit as opposed to stockpiling just talent and players that play the same position and having to figure it out later.  That's personally the way I'll be looking at what we try and do at No. 7.
Q. My question goes out to Bill and Derek.  What have you guys seen from Oregon's Maite Cazorla?  And if I could ask what you've seen from Ionescu, as well.
THE MODERATOR: I'm going to jump in on that one just to say that we're not going to have our coaches able to talk about the underclassmen, but Bill or Derek, if you would jump in on Maite Cazorla, please.
BILL LAIMBEER: Not on our radar.  You'd have to ask Dan Padover, our general manager.  He does a lot more of watching a lot of the players.  But no, not on my radar.
DEREK FISHER: I'll jump in real quick.  I'm afraid to say it on this call because I don't want to draw more attention to her, but I like Maite a lot.  I think obviously Sabrina [Ionescu] gets a lot of the attention, but I think Maite is one of those players that literally on any basketball team she would have an impact because of her ability to make decisions with the basketball, her ability to shoot, in terms of catch-and-shoot without the ball.  But just high IQ and adds a lot of value to a really successful team.  I think she has a bright future.  I don't know where she'll fall in terms of the draft, but for us, we have 7, 19 and 31.  She's definitely on our radar, and we'll see what happens on draft day.
Q. This question is for Cheryl.  Just in those years after you won a WNBA title and as you approached the draft, as you're selecting at the back of the draft, were you at those times looking to probably not shake up a veteran lineup but were you looking for a mix player, were you looking for something for the future, or was just the draft a simple luxury just to add to a better team?
CHERYL REEVE: I would say I think your question is about when we were drafting at the bottom of the draft.  What we did, we just hoped and prayed that we would have early entries.  We hoped and prayed that maybe somebody would fall, and it almost never happened.  And I'd say that we always went best player available even if we didn't have a need, for example, Alexis Jones we got at No. 12.  We thought she would go higher than that.  So we didn't necessarily need a point guard or a 2, but as a combo guard we took her.  So I'd say that it varied by year.  We certainly wanted to make sure that they were a fit, they were about what they were doing in terms of were they a great teammate, did they understand how to play basketball, was there a spot for them maybe at some point.  We felt like at the bottom of the first round if we got a couple years out of the player, then we did okay at that pick.
It's one of those things that in October you're happy, but in April you're not so happy being at the bottom of the draft.  Designing rings is fun in the off-season, but when it came to April, that was a much more difficult situation.  I would say now picking in the middle of the draft, we were not happy in October, but we're much happier in April that we're going to get a good player.
Q. Bill, about your willingness to drop from the 1 for the right deal, and there's been some talk of deals, but it seems in the WNBA it rarely happens on draft days that there is significant movement in terms of deals --
BILL LAIMBEER: I don't agree.  I'm involved in a lot of deals on draft day.  What's the question?
Q. Well, it just seems like many of the teams in the league are not willing to make deals on draft day and I was wondering why you felt that was.
BILL LAIMBEER: You know, that's actually a pretty good question.  I think the way the league is structured that we can't protect following-year picks in case you have a bad year hurts player movement.  If we could be like the guys, then we could have lottery-protected picks.  That would open up a tremendous amount of opportunity for more trades.  But I think draft-day deals are about where people fall.  A lot of them are set up in advance, and especially this year is going to be really interesting because no one is going to know if we have underclassmen coming out or not until after the trading deadline has passed before the draft.  So that makes up a whole hornet's nest of draft-day deals depending on who's moving where and all kinds of talks.
Q. I wanted to ask Katie and then Cheryl for your thoughts on Missouri's Sophie Cunningham, if you guys think that she has a chance to go late first round and make a roster or if she might be on your radar if she's still around early second round.
KATIE SMITH: Obviously with the No. 2 pick, not, but 14, she may still be around at that point.  I like her game.  Good size, scores in a variety of ways, competes, doesn't get bothered by a whole lot, guards, knows what she needs to do and when she needs to do it and seems like an amazing teammate.  I think she'll compete.  Where she'll end up, I don't know if somebody will snag her at the end of the first round, in that area, or she'll make it into the second.  But she definitely has the skill set and some decent size to play in the league.
CHERYL REEVE: Yeah, I think that both Bill and Katie talked about the strengths of Sophie.  I've watched her a ton.  Highly competitive.  I think it's a player whose athleticism is probably below what we see in our league, but I think she can make up for it in the other things that she does.  The ability to shoot it, she scores in different ways, she gets fouled.  Highly competitive, and I think that can get you a long, long ways.  We aren't planning for her to be available to us when we pick again at 16.  I do think that she's probably going to do in the latter part of the first round.
Q. Who are your top three players?  Can each coach say really quickly your top three players in this draft in terms of pure talent?
BILL LAIMBEER: I've got No. 1, so I say, in no particular order, Durr and McCowan and then, yeah, go pick somebody.  There's about three or four of them that are all in that boat to add on.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT