NBA FINALS: CELTIC v LAKERS
June 16, 2010
Derek Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. (Inaudible).  
 DEREK FISHER: It is what it is. It's something that each time a series starts, you don't necessarily know how it's going to play out and what's going to happen and how the momentum is going to swing back and forth. But here we are, and to have this opportunity on our home floor to win a championship, you know, I don't know if you can ask for anything else, regardless of the Game 3, 4, 5, 6 or 7. Whatever it would take to win, and we have an opportunity.  
  
  Q. Your team seems cool and calm this morning?  
 DEREK FISHER: Well, I just think that we've -- after losing Game 5, you know, we have been in a position since then that was not very complicated. It was pretty simple. You have to win the next game or your season is over, and not over in a way you'd like it to be. You know, as opposed to kind of, I guess, starting to become selfish and kind of bunker mentality.  
 You know, we need to just come together even more, which is what you need to do, I think, when adversity hits you. Like I said, we won a lot of games to have this game, and the way things worked out with us, we had a better record in the regular season. This is why the 82 games in the regular season matter. Now it's just about going out and play the game.  
  
  Q. Because of the way you played in Game 6 is there a certain amount of anxiousness to get back out there for Game 7?  
 DEREK FISHER: I mean, I think it's not so much about the way we played the game. I think regardless of the score, us winning the game put us in a position where, of course, we'd love to go back out there and play. But today is a good opportunity to get some rest and physically and mentally get into a position where we can bring our best effort tomorrow. That's what it'll take in order to win the game, you know, a lot of guys contributing to the cause. Last night was a really big example of how good we can be when we have everybody doing a little bit of everything.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT