NBA FINALS: CELTIC v LAKERS
June 12, 2010
Derek Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. How important is it to get Andrew back to some degree for this next game tomorrow? 
     DEREK FISHER: I mean, first and foremost, as much as we want Andrew and need him, we at the same time don't want him doing anything that's going to jeopardize the rest of his career. He's a young and extremely talented player and has a very bright future ahead of him. So everybody wants to take one for the team and do everything that they can, but we don't want to do anything that's going to hurt him later. 
     Based on the information that he's getting and doctors and everything, if he's comfortable, then of course we'd love to have him out there, even in a limited fashion, whatever it is. He's been limited the whole postseason. But he still found ways to be effective for us. And if he's out there, just his size and length around the basket can help us out a great deal, particularly on the boards.

 Q. Have you ever had a knee drained?
     DEREK FISHER: No.

 Q. Do you have any sense of what he's going through to have it essentially drained now twice in two weeks, all in an effort to play? Obviously the guy should be having surgery and he said he's going to have to after the season. But just what he's gone through in the last couple weeks?
     DEREK FISHER: He's made the ultimate sacrifice and tried to pay the ultimate price. As a professional basketball player, your commodity is your body. So for him to take the steps that he's taking to try and help us win, I think that says a lot about who he is and what his purpose is with our team. We're very appreciative of the effort he's given us so far. 
     So if he can or cannot play, he's done enough to put us in position to figure out a way to win two out of three games. That's what being on a team is about, and like I said, we're very appreciative of the effort he's given us so far.

 Q. What do you think about the way the big men played when he came out of the game? Was there a noticeable difference in what they were able to do? 
     DEREK FISHER: I'm not sure, you know, if it was a marked difference, when you just look at him being in the game or out of the game. But I think there were differences in style of play in terms of Glen Davis and Rasheed and the things that they tried to do. They do some things differently offensively with those guys on the floor compared to Garnett and Perkins. So I think some of it is related to that. But I'm sure that when you're playing a post position for the opposing team and you don't see somebody Andrew's size back there, it makes things a little bit better, not easier but a little bit better. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT