NBA FINALS: CELTIC v LAKERS
June 5, 2010
Derek Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. As far as the second game is concerned, if you play like you practice, you guys are ready to go.
 DEREK FISHER: Well, we have to do a few things better than we did at practice today and even in Game 1. We'll have to be better. But we're definitely trying to make sure that we're keeping our eyes on the prize and we're staying really locked in on the things we need to accomplish out there on the floor. Today we got some good work in. Seems like the air was up a little bit higher so we all got a good sweat and got after it a little bit. It was fine.

 Q. It will be a little more physical, too.
 DEREK FISHER: I'm sure it will be. The referees will control the game in terms of making sure guys are playing basketball. It's going to be physical, aggressive. Both teams are going to be really laying everything out there on the line. It's a very important game. We're not really resting on what we accomplished in Game 1. All of our focus is on this one game here tomorrow.

 Q. How much does the officiating make you adjust as the game goes on?
 DEREK FISHER: I mean, completely. The referees aren't in control of necessarily how I play in terms of your focus, your attention, the things you're trying to do out there. But if they decide to call a tighter game and make sure things don't get out of hand, it's something you have to adjust to and still try to figure out how to be effective out there on the floor, either. You have to trust if you get into a bad situation or you pick up a couple fouls extra that you have guys next to you that can pick up the slack and get the job done.

 Q. (Inaudible).
 DEREK FISHER: You know, I think just some of the things that aren't related to shooting and who is getting the ball and what number a guy is, really I guess what we call the 50/50 balls, where the ball is free and the first team to it, who's taking charge, who's boxing out and getting rebounds, who's setting good screens, all the little things that don't really show up in the stats sheet but things that add up to success in basketball.
 I think those are the things you can continue to point to because the talent that lies on both teams, I think you're going to see good basketball being played, but it's going to be those little things that make the difference.




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT