NBA FINALS: CELTIC v LAKERS
June 4, 2010
Derek Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DEREK FISHER: I can't really speak for what their mentality will be or what they're thinking. I guess the comments Pau was making was maybe playing more aggressive or more physical or some of those things. But those are constants for them. I'm not really in that group of people that feels like they just didn't compete last night. I think we just played a better game yesterday. But that doesn't mean that all of a sudden on Sunday like it's going to be two totally different teams out there. I think it's still going to come down to which team is going to be able to figure out which way the game is being called, who's in foul trouble, all the little things in the game. You have to constantly make the necessary adjustments. We did some a little better last night, and that's why we won.   
 Yeah, like I said, I don't think that it's, "They played harder than us we they lost."   
  
  Q. (Inaudible).   
 DEREK FISHER: I think they're a veteran basketball team, so you don't really see the sense of desperation maybe in a younger team you might expect in this case. But really there hasn't been much that has happened. We won a game at home, which you're supposed to do when you have home court and you're considered to be one of the best teams.   
 You know, it's really more about us winning on Sunday than it is even about them per se because they're going back home for three games, where even though in the regular season they weren't necessarily the greatest home team, in the playoffs they've actually been good. It's actually about us playing and keeping our focus locked in for Game 2 and not playing with desperation but definitely playing with a sense of urgency.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible).   
 DEREK FISHER: I think he's just continued to gain an understanding of what it is we do here as a team, and he's deeply a part of us now, whereas as opposed to in '08 he had really only been with us a few months, so the exploitations and what this all meant was probably still forming. Now having been together two-plus, almost three years, I just think the connective tissues and the core of our team is just stronger together. That's what I think it's related to. I'm definitely not thinking that all of a sudden he's just chosen to be more physical or play harder or play stronger. I think he just understands more what it takes on this team for us to win.   
 He's coming from a situation in Memphis where he was a franchise guy and he was still adjusting to having to play with a guy like Kobe. Two years later he understands those balances, and that's why he's able to play at an efficient level.   
  
  Q. Do you expect more of a street fight in Game 2?   
 DEREK FISHER: Yeah. Like I just said, I don't think that it'll necessarily be measurable, the difference, but sometimes when you have a setback or you're knocked down, it just brings certain things to focus. Because they're a veteran team and they're coached well, I definitely think you can expect some adjustments of some things to happen out there that will be much better for them.   
 At the same time those don't necessarily factor into how we play. You know, I think that they will and have to do some things better, and they'll make adjustments and be better. But a lot of that doesn't have anything to do with how we prepare for the game and how ready we are and what we do out there. I think you'll see both teams come back and probably play a better -- even if it's more physical and more aggressive, a cleaner game, not as many free throws, just a better basketball game. It should be a lot of fun.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT