NBA FINALS: CELTIC v LAKERS
June 2, 2010
Derek Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. What is it about Phil Jackson that he's always able to keep your guys' attention and motivate you guys?   
 DEREK FISHER: I mean, I guess because he doesn't talk too much. I think he just has an uncanny way of allowing guys to be themselves and be who they are. Sometimes if that isn't what's best at that time for the team or whatever may happen, he just kind of will let guys make mistakes and be who they are, and just at the right time tighten the screws up. I think that's why he's been able to be successful with so many different types of teams.  
  
  Q. Your teammates were talking about being here at the Staples Center today. It really sinks in about what you are trying to accomplish right now.   
 DEREK FISHER: Yeah, I think you don't know how this feels until you get here. Even though we've been here -- this is our third year, the season is so long, and you go through so much just to get to this point. So it's not until you walk in at times and you see everything going right and The Finals signs that you really start to get that feeling that it's finally here, what you've been working so hard for. It hasn't seen started yet, but you start feeling that emotion.  
  
  Q. A little nervous anticipation?  
 DEREK FISHER: More excitement than anything. I think I guess there will just naturally be some anxiety and anxiousness come tomorrow as the game approaches. But right now just excited to be here and feeling very, very fortunate to have this opportunity again.   
  
  Q. For the seventh time in 11 years, the Lakers are in The Finals.   
 DEREK FISHER: Yeah, it's quite a run, and there are a lot of people that obviously deserve a lot of credit. You know, we just have to understand that this is not -- you don't get the trophy for getting here. You don't get a ring for just getting here. We have four very tough games to figure out how to win.   
  
  Q. How important is this particular Finals in your career?   
 DEREK FISHER: I don't know if this particular Finals measures up more than any other ones in terms of my career individually. You know, obviously for Kobe and myself, the opportunity to win a fifth championship would mean a great deal. But we're as motivated for Ron to get his first one as we are to get our fifth one, so we're just going at this thing for everybody.  
  
  Q. How big of a challenge are the Celtics facing and are you guys faced with to take on the Celtics?   
 DEREK FISHER: That's a hard one for me to put into words, I guess. Anybody that makes it to The Finals, you have your hands full. We feel like we understand what their strengths and weaknesses are, the things that they like to do. I feel like they understand who we are and what we like to do.   
 There won't really be any secrets. It'll just be about two teams going out there and laying it on the line and giving everything we have to try to win four games.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT