NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SUNS v LAKERS
May 21, 2010
Derek Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q. The lines have been coming up and down, has his mentality stayed even-keeled; has he gotten frustrated at all?  
 DEREK FISHER: I think his mentality is pretty even-keeled. I'm sure he's frustrated, because he wants to do as much as he can. And he's not been able to do that right now. So I'm sure that's frustrating as it is for any player dealing with an injury.   
 But his commitment to the team is there. So we're supporting him. We're not putting any pressure doing more than what he's doing. Given what he has.  
  
  Q. How do you differentiate this time of year between good play and it's something like sort of a matchup-based kind of thing, you guys really executing in a way that would work against anyone?  
 DEREK FISHER: I don't know. That's tough to probably quantify. I don't know. Because, I mean, there are things that other teams you know do better, worse than others, and it told changes the way the game is played. So I guess the best way to look at that would be, in some ways I guess people like to look at defense and saying that teams play a certain type of defense no matter who they're playing, they're just getting locked down.   
 But even that, you just can't put a blanket over it and say they can play that kind of defense against any team in the NBA; it doesn't work that way.  
  
  Q. I guess that's where it's not allowing yourselves, you talk about it, getting too far ahead of yourselves, what works now may not work?  
 DEREK FISHER: Yeah, I don't think that that is going around in our locker room. I guess some people may say that outside of the locker room. But I don't think we're under the impression that we can score 128 points at any time against anybody.   
 And we might not even score 128 points on Sunday. It's just -- it's kind of just game by game. And I think we've done a better job of finally accepting the fact that you just win. There's the Oklahoma City and Utah series. There's no script to how it's supposed to look. You just have to win.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT