NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SUNS v LAKERS
May 18, 2010
Derek Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DEREK FISHER: I don't know really surprised you at this point, good or bad. It's really just about going out and incurring opportunities and trying to take advantage of them. And we had a good week of practice for the most part, even though we had some guys out.   
But we feel like overall we were fairly sharp. But we could be sharper.  
  
  Q. You beat them at their own game?  
 DEREK FISHER: At points. Sometimes we played a little bit too fast. Our ability to get the ball inside was somewhat limited.   
 But when we did, we scored at a high rate. That's something we want to come back to in Game 2, is really making sure that Pau, Andrew, Lamar, Ron and Kobe are getting opportunities within the inside of their defense to really collapse and make them make decisions.  
  
  Q. And you know they're going to try like crazy because they should be embarrassed about what happened last night.   
 DEREK FISHER: You can ask them how they feel about it. We're going to come out and try to do a lot of the same things we did last night, improve in some other areas.  
 They got to the free-throw line 30 times. They didn't shoot the 3-point shots as well as they normally do. There will be some things they come back and do a lot better. And our performance won't necessarily be gauged on what they do. We have to stay focussed on the things we're capable of doing and hopefully we can do it tomorrow night.  
  
  Q. Derek, when you look back to the Oklahoma City series, 2-2 series, not how sure people would say Lakers would rattle off seven consecutive playoff victories and have the confidence you guys are having now. From that point to where we're standing now, what happened to get the seven straight?  
 DEREK FISHER: Just playing them as they come. You know, and not getting caught up in what each game meant and whether or not this was supposed to be do or die or whether we're supposed to be tied 2-2.   
 Like it really doesn't matter. The goal is to advance. And in the playoffs, when you advance, then people tend to forget about what happened the last time.   
 And so we've just been concentrating taking them one game at a time, which is obviously a very old and cliche line to say, but we focused in a lot more on each game and that's worked well for us.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT