NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: NUGGETS v LAKERS
May 24, 2009
Derek Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DEREK FISHER: Different games and opportunities and plays and moments that, after you've done it, that you can look back on and say that was instrumental, that was huge. And I just kind of sensed that last night was one of those moments where as a team we took that step.   
And I just didn't know exactly how the game was going to unfold. But I didn't want to just not say it. And where the guys actually respond and get all motivated by stuff like that, I don't go as far as to say because I said that that's why the game went the way it did. But I just felt it was a good time to say it.  
  
  Q. Did it really feel like crunch time?  
 DEREK FISHER: I think you get to this point, every game, every -- it's crunch time. And you're one of four teams fighting to get to the NBA Finals. So it's crunch time tip-off Game 1. So I don't know.   
  
  Q. Not that you guys couldn't come back and win Game 4 but my own feeling was the season was teetering, it was one of those points where it was really a defined moment, crossroads, all that kind of stuff. It was like 12 months. You guys were ready to go.   
 DEREK FISHER: Yeah, I didn't see it in terms of our whole season. I just saw it as an opportunity for us to kind of control our own destiny.   
 If we lose Game 3, lose some of that control, obviously it takes much more effort, more things to happen in your favor to get it back. But at the moment when I was saying it, now looking back on it, I didn't see it as if we don't come back and win this game tonight we can't or won't win the series. But obviously being up 2-1, it's better than being down 1-2 with the fourth game on another team's home court. So that's definitely a reality of it.  
  
  Q. You guys have always rose to the challenge when your backs are to the wall, but in the playoffs you let down when you have the lead. Are you worried about that happening again?  
 DEREK FISHER: No. We talked about it last night. And we're holding ourselves accountable to not allow what happened in the last series to happen in terms of not good solid performances one game and then the next game just not being ready to go at the start of it.   
 So today we're going to talk about some things that we can do to make sure that we do it in terms of our execution. But we've challenged each other in terms of mentally where we go the next 36 hours or so in terms of continuing to obsess and meditate and focus on what it is that you have to do to be ready to go tomorrow.   
 Don't take that sigh or that deep breath or that relaxed breath in terms of not thinking about the game tomorrow.   
 So we told ourselves last night immediately after the game start thinking about the next game right now. And I think everybody will respond that way.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT