NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: NUGGETS v LAKERS
May 20, 2009
Derek Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DEREK FISHER: Not a great place to play from against a really good team. There were a few moments there where I had a couple of shots going down for them they could have stretched it from 6 to 9, from 8 to 11 and really made it difficult for us.   
 So we feel good about the win. Obviously fortunate to be up 1-0. But we don't feel like we've done anything special.  
 And we're going to be able to go back to work tomorrow night.  
  
  Q. It was the little things that got...  
 DEREK FISHER: It's always what it is. Other nights it's like the bigger things look better and it's a lot of fun to talk about. But it's always the little things that really make the difference. And last night seemed like every guy that played for us gave us something at a different point in the game.   
 It was a really great total team win. Everybody contributed and filled the leaves in and everybody had a chance to give us some help.  
  
  Q. When you look back at last year's Western Conference Final compared to what you guys appear to be headed towards this year, it seems like night-and-day difference in terms of matchups, in terms of intensity. Is that accurate?  
 DEREK FISHER: I'm not sure. When we started off against the Spurs I don't think anybody, including ourselves, anticipated us winning four games to one. So it just happened that way. We took it one game at a time.   
 It feels good when you can get that one, but then all the focus and attention goes to Game 2 and trying to shift that home court advantage type of thing. So tomorrow's going to be extremely important.  
 But I don't see it at this point as night and day from last year. I think we get through the conference final and we play the best team left in your conference. And there's no expectation that it will be an easy extra point.  
  
  Q. When you -- in the first series or second series your shot got away. Last night it was right on the money when it had to be making the run. I think you scored seven of your 10 points in it to take the lead. What's going on through your mind right there? I have to hit the shot or, like you said, it can get away?   
 DEREK FISHER: You just stay in the moment. And you stay involved in the game. And I think I had a total of 13 shot attempts which is probably the most in months, if I can remember. And it's a lot easier even if you have a stretch where you miss three or four. If you're getting 10, 12, 13, you can get that back.   
 And, I mean, the best shooters in the game, not that I consider myself to be one of those, but where there's Ray Allen or whoever, you go through a stretch where you're not shooting 50 percent or 45 percent or whatever, but you're consistently getting good looks at the basket, it's eventually going to come around. And that's what I try to stay focused on.  
  
  Q. On those shots, those are big moments and Kobe, being unselfish, the ball's going to come to me?  
 DEREK FISHER: Yeah, I think every guy on probably every team you step into a shot in a different way where you see a play unfold and a teammate is being double-teamed and getting ready to be put in a bad position and that pass comes out of there just at the right time, right in the rhythm, right where some of us call the breadbasket, right in that shooting pocket where all you have to do is deliver the ball to the basket. When we do that as a team, we're difficult to beat.   
 I think that was why we were so successful last year was that that ball would move quickly, fast, to the open guy and we have to continue to work on our spacing so we can get back to making sure that guys we know that can make shots are getting quality shot opportunities.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT