NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 13, 2009
Derek Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Is the Lakers-Celtics rivalry back?  
 DEREK FISHER: We're starting to revisit. I don't want to compare to the Lakers of the '80s. That was a totally different thing until the Lakers and Celtics meet again in the Finals another one or two, three times, you could maybe compare to what they did in the '80s.   
 But it goes much deeper than Kobe or Shaq or Magic. It doesn't matter who plays. Jerry West, Wilt Chamberlain, Tommy Heinsohn, those are -- you can't put a cap on the players. I think that's what separates it from any other matchup in NBA sports history for sure.  
 I still have too much of an appreciation for Magic and Larry and James Worthy and Michael Cooper and what they were able to do year in and year out in the '80s to compare what we're doing now to them.   
 But I do think that out on the court in terms of the teams matching up, starting to take on the game, I think it is birth of a newer tradition.   
 I don't think we are carrying the anger and frustration from Kevin McHale or Kurt Rambis. But the attention and the kind of fight that we're showing back and forth to each other at this point is going out of what has happened in the last 12 to 18 months in terms of two teams that are basically vying for one thing. Somebody can't get it.   
 Right now we are the two teams that seem to be able to separate ourselves in terms of having the opportunity again. Orlando, Spurs and a few teams obviously have something to say.  
  
  Q. How impressed are you with Shaq at his age to be able to play in an All-Star? When he was in Miami and hurt, a lot of people said he was through. For him to be a dominant player at his age and his weight?  
 DEREK FISHER: Bigger guys normally as age increases really start to break down with injuries. Seven feet tall, 340, -50, -60 pounds, I can't imagine carrying that type of size.   
 It says a lot about just the commitment and the dedication that he still carries and the responsibility that he still feels to the game, to the team, to his teammates, to the organization.   
 Obviously he is not playing because he needs the money. So I think he's been able to do things this year that a lot of people three years ago said he couldn't do. So I'm happy for him and for his family in particular that he got voted in by coaches and not just a fan favorite kind of thing. I think he should be very, very proud.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT