NBA FINALS: LAKERS v CELTICS
June 6, 2008
Derek Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		   DEREK FISHER: I was having to play catch-up, and on the road that's a tough thing to do, to play 30-plus minutes of a game from behind, and that's what we put ourselves in a position to have to do and couldn't get it done. So hopefully on Sunday we won't do the same thing. 

 Q. What do you think about Paul Pierce coming back? 
 DEREK FISHER: I don't really know to be honest. He was hurt and he came back. The adrenaline is going, it's the NBA Finals, guys are going to suck it up and do what they have to do to try to help their team. He's to be commended and their team is to be commended. They actually played pretty good when he was out for a few minutes. We'll expect him to be ready to go Sunday for sure. 

 Q. (Question regarding second-chance points.)
 DEREK FISHER: Rebounding we knew would be a big key in this series, and we got beat up on the boards pretty good in terms of total number of rebounds. I think in the fourth quarter we made quite a few donations by missing 15 out of 20 shots, so that helped add to the rebound totals. But we definitely have to want the ball more. When that ball goes up in the air, our guys are going to have to be the first ones there and getting those extra possessions. On the road, that's key. 

 Q. A question about Paul Pierce: He said he was touched by an angel when he went back there who possibly helped him. Do you believe in divine intervention?
 DEREK FISHER: Yeah, I believe in divine intervention, and maybe that's what happened. He can speak from his experience. I don't know how much we can comment on what he experienced. I do believe that obviously there is a divine being that I believe in and I have faith in, and maybe Paul does, too. 

 Q. Do you think that's the case, and do you think he's pulling for the Celtics?
 DEREK FISHER: No, I think he has bigger problems to worry about as opposed to who wins the NBA Finals.

 Q. I would hope so. 
 DEREK FISHER: I think so. But you never know. At times I think he's proven that he can be a big-time sports fan (laughter), so you kind of have to go with it. 

 Q. Especially this match-up. 
 DEREK FISHER: Yeah, we've been waiting 21 years. 21 years is like 21 seconds in terms of eternal life (laughter). 

 Q. Talk about Pierce's return. 
 DEREK FISHER: When he went out and came back, in terms of our team, we're not really putting much emphasis on when he went out and came back. The six points that he scored to start the third quarter, to me that's where the game shifted. We weren't able to re-gain kind of the control and the momentum of the game. The crowd got into the game right away in the third quarter, as opposed to we could have come out in that third quarter and gotten some separation and forced them to play from behind the rest of the way and we could have had a much better chance. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT