NBA FINALS: LAKERS v CELTICS
June 4, 2008
Derek Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Talk about the matchup against Rondo.   
 DEREK FISHER: He's only been in the league for now his second season, and he's had the opportunity this year to play every single game, and I think that's done a lot for his confidence, having that experience and understanding how not to only do things that help his own game, but really making the team better, and that's what a point guard does is make his team better, similar to Jordan Farmar on our team who's in his second year. These guys add great minutes for both teams. Rajon is going to be a key, I think, to any success the Celtics are going to have.  
  
  Q. You've got to be a little tired of talking and the anxiety level has to be getting a little high, as well?  
 DEREK FISHER: Well, if you're here on this day at this moment, you feel good. It's a great opportunity. But there's been three or four or five days now, talking about the match-up and the anticipation, and I think as a player you definitely get to a point where you just want to get out and play the game and work off some of that energy that you've been building up for the last four or five days.  
  
  Q. You don't anticipate any leprechauns on the floor, do you?  
 DEREK FISHER: I anticipate probably anything on the floor that it takes to help the team win, and hopefully when we get back to LA we'll have whatever we need to put on our floor to make sure that we have some success on our court.   
  
  Q. What do you think about all the media coverage of The Finals?   
 DEREK FISHER: You know, at this time I haven't engulfed myself as much in terms of at home or in the hotel room as far as watching and turning on the radio shows and listening as much as I really kind of tried to keep my mind at a pretty normal pace, just in anticipation of getting started tomorrow night. But I can only imagine not just at the start of the series but as the series goes on how big this is going to be. I think this is a great thing not just for the NBA but just for sports in general. I think it's a great thing when the best gets a chance to compete against the best, and whoever comes out on top, they earned it, and I think both teams should be proud to be here.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT