NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SPURS v LAKERS
May 26, 2008
Derek Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DEREK FISHER: It's been fun. It's been challenging. I'm going to continue to relish the opportunity I had and we have. 

 Q. Fish, what are you going to do a better job of tomorrow that you didn't do yesterday?
 DEREK FISHER: You know, we turned the basketball over early, which I think caused a lot of problems. We didn't play the type of first half that I think is necessary to come in and win a game on the road. You force yourself to try and come from behind in the second half against the defending champions on their home court. That's a tough thing to do. 
 So we turned the basketball over early and never were really sharp offensively. We only had three assists at halftime, which I think is probably a season low. That didn't make for a very good half.

 Q. Are you worried at all that you have been down 20 twice to these guys? You are ahead in the series 2-1. It is not like you to go behind by 20 twice in three games. 
 DEREK FISHER: No, I'm not so much worried about that. There are tons of variables that go into winning and losing games. It is never just one thing. I feel like for the most part, we're in control of what we are doing or not doing out on the floor. 
 It is not so much that, you know, what they have done to us. I think we still have a good shot of winning tomorrow night's game and that's the focus we need to have. The fact we are up 2 games to 1 and we still have an opportunity to take control of the series by winning the game tomorrow.

 Q. Fish, you had very few looks beyond the arc. Why is that? 
 DEREK FISHER: Well, they have never been a team that's had to double team guys on the post. So that's where most of our three-point shot opportunities are going to come from, are off the penetration with the pass into Pau or penetration after the dribble with Kobe. 
 Even our dribble penetration, whoever is guarding me, they are not leaving so I haven't had many opportunities at all, but definitely not behind -- not behind the three-point line. 
 So things tend to come around. Each game things will happen differently and things will adjust and we'll find ways to get more guys involved, which is more important to us. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT