NBA FINALS: HEAT v THUNDER
June 16, 2012
Derek Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Russell is getting hammered by Magic and Stephen A. and others.   What kind of numbers does this kid have to put up?  
DEREK FISHER:   Well, I don't think it's just about numbers.   I think Russell just has to continue to be himself and play his game.   There'll always be critics and people that have comments to make about your game.   I played with Kobe for a long time, and I think he's the best example of no matter what you do, people will always have something to say or question whether you should or should not be doing something.   Russell will just remain confident in who he is and what's gotten him here and continue to just grow and develop before our guys the way he has, and he'll be fine.  
   
 Q.   Do you agree he has to get the ball to Kevin more than his own shot?   Do you agree with that?  
DEREK FISHER:   He just has to play the game.   We all have to, I think, play a smarter game than what we played in particular in Game 2.   But Russell is a phenomenal talent, and he just has to trust his instincts, play his game.   But that same focus goes for all of us, Russell, Kevin, James.   If there's two people covering you, somebody else is open, make the pass, and that guy will make the play.   That's a lesson we're continuing to make sure we're all understanding.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
DEREK FISHER:   Well, I mean, there is another team out there, so sometimes the other team has something to do with it.   They come out and they're playing well.   But for us just really making sure we're not being mentally‑‑ that we're physically prepared to start the game.   I don't think there are any secret formulas or anything special that you have to do.   That's a responsibility that as a player on a team you have is to be ready to go right at the start.   And our guys will figure that out.   Our starters will figure that job out, and I think they'll be sure that they're ready to go when the game starts tomorrow night, and the rest of us will follow their lead.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT