NBA FINALS: HEAT v THUNDER
June 13, 2012
Derek Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  DEREK FISHER:   I'm not sure.   They can answer that better than I can.   You know, obviously as a team and as a coach you're going to want to have LeBron James and Dwyane Wade on the floor as much as you possibly can.   Chris Bosh getting healthier and returning, you're going to want to have him on the floor as much as you possibly can.   I think teams usually shorten their rotations in the Playoffs and in the postseason, so it's not surprising that only six or seven, sometimes maybe eight guys are going to play.   But your best players are going to dominate the minutes at this time.   That's typically what most teams do. 

Q.   There was an odd stat after last night's game.   You guys actually have a better record when Russ takes more shots than Kevin.   How do you explain that? 
DEREK FISHER:   I don't know.   I mean, I think there's a way to make the numbers look and sound the way the story is being reported.   You know, I think that we are better when Russell is aggressive and he's attacking and making plays.   A lot of times he's capable of making plays for himself, but I think last night in the situation where he was on the biggest stage that he's been on as a Thunder player, he facilitated some great opportunities for other guys to get into double digits in assists.   I think he's continuing to show his ability to dominate the game in any way you need him to, even on the defensive end.

Q.   Does Dwyane Wade still look like the superstar Dwyane Wade that you've known to go against? 
DEREK FISHER:   Yeah.   As far as I know, he looks like Dwyane Wade.   His haircut is still the same, the goatee and everything is still the same. 

Q.   But as a player? 
DEREK FISHER:   Yeah, I mean, I'm not sure what it is that people expect these guys to do.   I mean, one guy is averaging 30 points for the Playoffs, another guy is averaging 20 points for the Playoffs.   You know, everybody's defense is geared to not allow them to be super heros, so to speak.   I think he is just as capable and always will be of putting up big numbers.   But it's our job not to allow him to be the Dwyane Wade, I guess, that everybody wants him to be. 
I think he's doing his job.   They're in The Finals, and I think they're playing the way they need to play to find success as a team.   We were able to win last night, and now we'll try to figure out a way to win tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT