NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: THUNDER v SPURS
June 1, 2012
Derek Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   So how does this game feel now after last night?   
DEREK FISHER:   Well, obviously getting the win in the postseason, every win, you earn it.   So you feel good about that.   But we're still in the same mentality of continuing to focus on taking home court, And we have another opportunity tonight.   
So that's what our focus was today when we talked.   And over the next day and a half, that's what our focus will be.  
   
 Q.   How quickly is last night's game put behind you guys?   
DEREK FISHER:   Well, from an emotional standpoint, right away.   We obviously want to come in and work, and get a chance to talk about some of the things that happened last night, get a chance to watch some film.   So you're still using last night as an opportunity, but emotionally for us it was something we felt like we're supposed to do is win on our home court.   Now we have the task of doing it again.  
   
 Q.   How important is it to replicate some of those good things that you were able to do last night?   
DEREK FISHER:   I think in order to get another quality effort similar to last night's, we have to forget about last night and throw that out the window.   We have to approach tomorrow's game as its own game.   Everything is going to happen differently.   
We're going to make shots, and we just need to play in the game as it comes to us.   We just lay it out there on the line.  
   
 Q.   When you try to manage them on offense point for point, how do you beat them on defense?   
DEREK FISHER:   Yeah, well, I think that's always the plan is to defend.   Obviously, against a team like the Spurs we have to be able to score the ball against just about every team.   That ranks up at the top.   It's more difficult offensively.   But we need to make some adjustments to where we were last night, and the job for us will be to find a way to be better than we were last night.  
   
 Q.   (No microphone) what do you see as far as adjustments?   
DEREK FISHER:   It was the team.   (No microphone).   It was our team wanting to win last night's game.   (No microphone).  
   
 Q.   Did the switches clog things up?   Did it take away their ability to move the basketball?   How much of that was strategic and how much of that was playing 24 seconds of defense in 48 minutes?  
DEREK FISHER:   I think some of it was strategic, but some of it was we looked at the situation and reacted to what was happening on the floor.   I think that was the most important part of it.   Every game we go into, we have some strategies and some things that you want to plan for.   
But at the end of the day you have to react to the basketball game and we did a good job of it last night.   We'll have to do a lot more of it tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Were you guys desperate yesterday?   Is that a good word to use for your situation?   Are you desperate again tomorrow to stay one game away from elimination?   
DEREK FISHER:   No, respectfully, no.   Desperate is not a good word.   We weren't desperate to win on our home court because we're capable of doing it.   You don't have to be desperate to do something that you're more than capable of doing.   
For us it was just a matter of being better than we were in the first two games than it was about being desperate to be better.   It was just be better.   We found a way to do that last night.   We throw last night out the window, and now create another opportunity and window.  
   
 Q.   How do you defensively turn the Spurs over?   
DEREK FISHER:   Well, you have to try to find ways to create turnovers.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT