CAPITAL ONE ORANGE BOWL: FLORIDA STATE VS MICHIGAN
December 27, 2016
Amara Darboh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








AMARA DARBOH: Coach Harbaugh knows what he's doing.  He knows what works and what doesn't I feel like, and as a result of the last bowl, I think the players trust what he has planned for us.
Q. What's a typical day been like?  What was yesterday like?
AMARA DARBOH: Yeah, we had breakfast in the morning, then we had meetings, and then we had lunch, a little downtime, and then we had practice.  After practice Dave & Buster's, then came back and spent a little more time in some meetings, and then we had curfew.
Q. Do you guys have a schedule, like on paper?
AMARA DARBOH: Yeah, it's really organized, yeah.
Q. What have you seen from the Florida State defense?
AMARA DARBOH: They're a very athletic defense.  They're athletic and fast, and they have a very, very good football team.  There are some characteristics about them that stood out to me.
Q. I guess the defensive backs especially, what challenges does that present?
AMARA DARBOH: Yeah, as a receiver you want to go against good DBs, and hopefully it brings the best out of you.  I think for me going against a DB like that helps you focus more on the game.  It helps you to be more precise on your routes because the DBs, they're like the indicators for wide receivers, and then as a wide receiver you want to (inaudible).
Q. Do you think their defense is comparable to any defense you've faced this year?
AMARA DARBOH: I'd say maybe the Ohio State defense, but you don't really know until you play them.  I think Florida State is kind of similar to theirs.
Q. You guys have been working hard from what guys were saying?
AMARA DARBOH: Yeah, I think the first day of practice is usually the toughest, especially in a different climate.  I think the first practice went well.
Q. Sounds like they turned the heat up on you a little bit, too?
AMARA DARBOH: Yeah, they turned the heat up and we could definitely tell the first day that they did that.  I think it does help coming down here.
Q. Was it like a morning conditioning session they had it up?
AMARA DARBOH: Yeah, and then I think at practice, too.
Q. I want to ask you about Khalid.  Some of the guys were talking about his hands and how maybe most people see him as a bowling ball dude.  Is he a better athlete than we might notice?
AMARA DARBOH: Yeah, he's a great athlete.  I think not only his hands but his feet and route running.  He's a guy that's very quick on his feet, and then yeah, his hands are -- I think he has one of the best hands on the team.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT