ISPS HANDA WALES OPEN
June 2, 2012
Carlos Del Moral
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  CARLOS DEL MORAL:   It was very nice.   I played yesterday beautifully and today I just kept it going and made a few more putts than yesterday.   It was really nice. 

Q.   Probably better to go out this morning, I think the conditions are getting slightly more windy. 
CARLOS DEL MORAL:   Yeah, but we kind of had some light rain in the morning.   This golf course is going to play like a beast at times for everybody.   I just took care of my game. 
I got it going very early.   I didn't start swinging the ball good until the par 3, 7th, and from then on, I kind of started making a few bogeys but I felt like I was playing very good and I just tried to get focussed until the very end. 

Q.   On a day like today when you have to come out and shoot a low number, after the two windy days, how important is it to get moving up that board?
CARLOS DEL MORAL:   Well, you never know what can happen tomorrow, so the better you do, the easier everything becomes.   I just feel like I'm playing good, and I just want to keep it going tomorrow. 

Q.   The eagle on 15, tell me about that. 
CARLOS DEL MORAL:   I was a little bit in‑between clubs, driver and 3‑wood, and just easy, high‑fade driver and it ended up bouncing very, very generous.   I made not such a long putt.   It was‑‑ I got a little lucky but it was definitely a good shot off the tee.

Q.   Nice way to finish on 18?
CARLOS DEL MORAL:   Yes, I got a little lucky with the lie.   I could go for it in two and then the spin becomes a lot easier if you're just down on the line.   I guess that pin with a wedge would be a lot trickier.   But yeah, once is good.   Sometimes it's good, sometimes it's bad, and I had my moments, good and bad.   I just take the positive and go tomorrow. 

Q.   You've played yourself into a decent position here.   You've been there a few times now; are you feeling more comfortable being towards the top of the leaderboard?
CARLOS DEL MORAL:   I really enjoy the way I'm working really with the right people.   I'm so happy and I can start enjoying more.   I just hope I can have a good day tomorrow, and we'll see.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT