AL DIVISION SERIES: ATHLETICS v TWINS
October 2, 2006
Johan Santana
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  The extra days of rest, how much will that affect you or how much could it hurt you?   
 JOHANN SANTANA: No, I think it's going to help a lot.  At this time of the season, every day off that you can get is going to help you.  It's going to help you recover and, hopefully, put everything in place.  You always worry about the fingernail and the hip and the back, which one was the more important one to get rest.  The whole body, that's for sure.  I mean, you want to rest the whole body and make sure that everything is fine.  I was doing some exercise for my back and my neck and my blisters are fine, nothing wrong with it.  So I feel pretty good.   
  
  Q.  You know, you talk about being able to start you in Game 1 so they can have the option to start you in Game 4 or 5.  It's almost like they are expecting you to win that day.  What do you think about that expectation?   
 JOHANN SANTANA: Well, it's good.  I will be ready for it.  As long as we're able to do what we have to do, we are going to be fine.  But I think, for myself, I am going to be ready.  Game 1, 2, 3, you know, if I'm able to pitch every single game, I will do it.  Reality is that we can't, but if that's the case, I will be ready for whatever the situation will be and whatever game I have to pitch.   
  
  Q.  What do you think of the Oakland lineup?   
 JOHANN SANTANA: It's a great lineup.  They are in the playoffs for a reason.  They know how to play the game.  They play pretty good, they're good at-bats.  They tag good, good at-bats.   
 But at the same time, we feel the same way, we feel that we can challenge them, we can compete against those guys and it's going to come down to who is going to be consistent and play the little ball and do the things that make you winners, but we will be fine.   
  
  Q.  One last question.  What do you think about how Boof Bonser has gotten better since he has been up here?   
 JOHANN SANTANA: It's been good.  Even though he didn't start the season with us, he seems like he has been here the whole season.  He knows how to take care of business and he is very aggressive and he cares about this team and what he wants to do out there, so it's good to have him like that, and I am pretty sure we are going to be fine, you know.  It's going to be a new experience for him, but at the same time, you know, he knows what to do.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT