WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC: ROUND TWO
March 11, 2006
Johan Santana
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOHAN SANTANA:  What I'd like to say is I don't really know too much officially about the Cuban baseball team.  However, I do know that they are a good team, and they have a lot of tradition with regard to the baseball team, and we hope that we will be able to perform well to our utmost performance level. 
 Q.  What is your opinion with regard to the pitching and the 80-limit pitches.  Do you think that you will be able to get to the sixth or seventh level? 
 JOHAN SANTANA:  This is the idea that we have.  I have to try to -- I don't know how I'm going to be doing within my spring training.  What I'm going to try to do is do it one inning at a time and see how my arm will be doing and see how everything pans out. 
 Q.  How much excitement do you think that will be here now that you have Cuba, Dominica, Puerto Rico and Venezuela, four teams people are looking forward to? 
 JOHAN SANTANA:  Well, what I think is the following, that I think this is also very important, the sheer utter fact that we have the four main countries which were the ones that were expected, who are represented, who are the major representatives of baseball in Latin America and in the Caribbean, the sheer fact that they are going to be going head to head, I think that this is something very important that we have to take into account.  They are the main representatives, I believe, of baseball, both internationally and the entire world, in the Caribbean. 
 Q.  What do you think about this event?  What do you think about participating in this event, and in your opinion do you think that this Baseball Classic is here to stay? 
 JOHAN SANTANA:  Well, I would like to say that it's simply spectacular to be able to participate in a world cup such as this.  It's an extreme honor to be able to represent your country and it's simply awesome to be able to see all of the international -- these players at an international competition, and it's wonderful to see all of these major baseball players, stars from all over the world representing their countries.  I believe that this is a fulfilling experience, and I hope that this is only the beginning and that this is only the first time that this is held, that it will be held for future years to come. 
 Q.  Where did you get the idea to wear that specific type of color, like the burgundy color that you're wearing on your shoes, and would you continue wearing this if Venezuela were to continue on and win the classic? 
 JOHAN SANTANA:  Well, I'd like to tell you that this is simply an idea that Adidas last year for me, and when I'm wearing them I actually feel quite comfortable and I'm trying to take in both Venezuela and Minnesota in mind.  However, I would also like to tell you that we must bear in mind the seasons and see how the season is going to pan out.  There are also rules that we have on the team that I also have to follow and we'll play it by ear. 
 Q.  Do you think that Venezuela -- that this championship is going to be for Venezuela? 
 JOHAN SANTANA:  Well, this is something that we all hope and this is something that we're all working for.  With any type of competition it's always very difficult, and it is even all the more difficult because we are playing at this type of level.  I believe that if we remain healthy that we will have a very good chance of winning this championship. 
 Q.  If you could tell us, do you have any inkling, any type of idea at all with regard to the Cuban team?  You said before that you didn't know anything about the Cuban team, but is there anything at all that you could tell us about them? 
 JOHAN SANTANA:  Well, what I can tell you is that I know that the Cuban team is a team that has a lot of desire and a lot of hope and that they are quite anxious to be able to represent their country at such an international competition. 
 On my behalf, I would like to say that I hope that they think along these lines, that they continue to play accordingly.  I hope for them that -- I would like to bear in mind that we are very professional people, they are a very professional team and we also want to represent our country.  However, I do not know too much about them, I do not know too much about the Cuban players at all.  What I can tell you is that I have seen this team, that it's a team that is a very experienced one. 
 Q.  We have heard that Santana is going to be changed in November.  I do think that it would be convenient for like 2009; do you think it's in their best interest to be changing him right now? 
 JOHAN SANTANA:  What I think, I think that it is actually better to do it because at the end of October there are fewer people or teams that are at the playoffs as compared to November, and I think that at that juncture, the baseball player will have about a month to get more acclimated to the country, will be able to practice more, would be able to actually rest, and it is a very difficult decision to tell you because there may be the best optimal conditions to do so, whereas in November the conditions may be a little bit different.  The player may not be as tired as compared to the other months that it would have been done. 
 Q.  Now, if Venezuela continues on to the next round, you will possibly have a rival or be competing against Japan, Mexico, the United States.  I would like to find out what would you prefer?  What would your take be on them, these teams, and how would you be pitching with regard to (Roger) Clemens because that would be one of the main opponents you would have in the following round? 
 JOHAN SANTANA:  Well, for me, I think that I don't really have personally any preference or any team.  What I have to do is basically just put my best foot forward and work, and I'm going to continue working the way I do.  I'm going to continue playing with my own style without a doubt.  We have to bear in mind the United States team is probably one of the strongest teams here at this World Baseball Classic.  The American team has a lot of stars. 
 We also cannot forget about Mexico.  Mexico played incredibly well during the first round, and Japan, as well, played very well during the first round.  It isn't going to be an easy team to beat.  However, it is very difficult to say, I do not know what is going to happen.  I can tell you we're going to be working and it's going to be very important to find out what's going to happen. 
 Q.  Do you have videotape of the Cuban lineup and do you plan to study it?  What have you heard about (Yulieski) Gourriel? 
 JOHAN SANTANA:  No, I do not have any video or anything of the sort as such.  However, I think that we're just going to take it day-to-day and see the current situation.  However, we do not have any specific information regarding any of the players. 
 However, after the practice today, we're going to be having a short meeting and we're going to be discussing the players for the Cuban team, but I don't have any further information. 
 Q.  And Gourriel? 
 JOHAN SANTANA:  I'm going to be honest with you.  I do not know who Gourriel is.  Honestly, I do not. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT