AL DIVISION SERIES: TWINS v YANKEES
October 4, 2004
Johan Santana
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Johann, how do you feel, first of all, and how do you feel starting Game 1 of the divisional series at Yankee Stadium? 

JOHANN SANTANA:   Well, I feel pretty good.  I mean, this is something that we were looking for.  We battled through the year to get to this point, and I think everything has paid off.  We're ready and we'll see what happens. 

Q.  Why do you think you've been so dominant since the All-Star Break? 

JOHANN SANTANA:   I think, you know, being consistent, being able to locate my pitches better and to be a little bit more aggressive when I'm on the mound and all of my pitches, so I was able, of course, to get my mechanics back and my arm strength back and my changeup and everything there.  From there, it was just, well, we'll just let it go and make sure that you be consistent and get better and better and better every start.

Q.  How would you describe the way you've pitched against the Yankees this year and throughout your career? 

JOHANN SANTANA:   Well, you know, I say, I wasn't trying to do much.  When you put yourself in a situation where you want to do much, then things go wrong.  I was just doing my job, having fun with what I was doing, and I know those guys are good.  I know they are one of the best teams in baseball, but we also know that we can play against any team because we've got the right guys to do it.  We've got pitching, we've got defense which is one of our strengths on our team, and then we've got offense.  If we can be able to do those three things together and make sure that we do it right, then we have a pretty good chance.  That's the way we are.  And we have a lot of confidence in ourselves and everything that's going to happen, it's going to happen on the field so, we'll see.

Q.  But you personally against this lineup, your thoughts about how you match up? 

JOHANN SANTANA:   Well, you know, all I know is that they will have to go out with the best because I'm going to give it my best, that's all I know, and that's the way I am.  I'm pretty confident about the things that I can do, and then I know they are good.  But like I said, we are good, too. 

Q.  A number of your teammates said that they thought for you that it really clicked in once you realized your arm was okay and you could just throw without fear.  Was there any one point or any game where it just clicked in for you that the arm was back and you could just let loose? 

JOHANN SANTANA:   Well, there was a game that I remember that I pitched against the New York Mets where in the seventh inning, I got bases loaded and then we went out and I came back and struck out Gerald Williams and  -- I can't remember who was the other guy, and then from there, everything just went.  I mean, I feel comfortable, confident, and they didn't take me out of the game, so I was like, you've got to do it. And then from there, everything was much better.  I feel relaxed and everything was like, perfect. 

Q.  A lot of the Yankees when they have faced you, and other hitters have said, they can't tell the difference when a fastball or a changeup is coming.  What have you done to be that deceptive out there?

JOHANN SANTANA:   Well, you know, this game is all about learning.  You know, this is a learning process.  This is my fifth year with the Twins, and you know, I learned a lot of things.  One of those things, was, you know, first you've got to throw your changeup, you've got to throw your slider, you've got to throw your pitches.  But now, you have to make sure that everything looks the same.  So my arm speed, that's what makes the difference on my pitches.  I want to make sure that when I throw my slider or my changeup, they look the same as a fastball.  I think that's the difference, being able to throw all of the pitches the same. 

Q.  I'm sure you've probably been asked this a couple of times, but earlier this year, Pedro Martinez was quoted as saying that you're better than he was at this stage of your career.  I was wondering what your thoughts were on that statement from him. 

JOHANN SANTANA:   Well, it's always good, it's an honor to be considered one of the best from the best.  I think he's one of the great pitchers in the game, and it's always an honor.   You know, I just feel good.  This is what we are here for, and every time you go out there, he wants you want to make sure that you get better and better and better, and especially when you face those type of players, you know, that they are one of the best.  You want to make sure you beat them.  You get a little fired up and that's what you want to do. For me, it's an honor and I respect him and I respect everybody in baseball.  I'm just doing my job.

Q.  I read a story where you talked about concerns or fears about things in Venezuela, did that play in your mind much or is that still something that worries or upsets you?

JOHANN SANTANA:   Not at all.  I know that things in my country are not that good, but there is nothing we can do about it.  All we've got to do is make sure is that we do our job and that everybody is fine at home, and hopefully they will be safe and they will enjoy what we are doing right now.  That's the most important thing.

Q.  Do you feel you are invincible right now when you are on the mound?

JOHANN SANTANA:   No, I'm just  -- you know, a lot of things have to go right for you to win a game.  Fortunately, everything has been right when I pitch.  It's not just me, it's the whole team.  We are able to play as a team, and that's the difference.  To me, it's all about going out there and trying to do my best and have fun, and whatever happens will happen on the field.  Off the field, that's a different thing.  As long as you do your best and you feel comfortable with yourself for what you did on the field, then you're fine.

Q.  What do you take from the last time that you faced the Yankees lineup? 

JOHANN SANTANA:   That day, I mean, I saw them, they were very aggressive on the first pitch fastball.  That's the way they are.  They are tough.  You wants to make sure that you stay in your game.  You don't want to get into their game or into the fans' game or whatever.  You just want to make sure that you stay focused or then you lose your job.  That's about it. 

Q.  You switched from when you were a little kid from right-handed to left-handed, are there some things that you still do right-handed and what are the different things? 

JOHANN SANTANA:   Not at all.  I just throw a little bit with the right-handed, but it's not even close to what it is as a left-handed.  I started to see  -- I didn't know I was a left-hander.  I just wanted to be like my dad.  I wanted to be a shortstop.  That's what he used to play.  He never got to play in the pros, but that was something, he was my idol, and that's how everything started.  I didn't know I was a left-hander until I started playing baseball. 

Q.  How much do you think the Yankees would like to have a young ace at the peak of his power such as yourself at the moment?

JOHANN SANTANA:   Well, that, I don't know.  You'd have to ask them.  All I know is that I am with the Twins; that this team has given me the opportunity to be a Major Leaguer, and then I appreciate all of the things that they have done for me.  And then we'll see in the future, I don't know.  I cannot answer that question.  All I know is I've got a Twins uniform on and I'm proud to wear it. 

Q.  What do you remember and what do you take out of pitching here last year in the post-season, was there any lesson you learned or anything about the atmosphere?

JOHANN SANTANA:   I know that I'm healthy, that's all I know.  I know that we have a little bit more experience, and then I also know that we didn't lose 7 or 13 games in a row this year.  We've shown them that we can play earlier in the season or in the middle of the season.  We play against them and we win against them.  So, I think we are a better team now.  So we have to make sure that we just do the things right. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT