U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 17, 2012
Mark Bradley
Keegan Bradley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Your first U.S. Open you played in, what was that like?  
MARK BRADLEY:   It was the highlight of my life.   It was really a wonderful experience, to be talking the fairway with my son.   It was certainly one of the highlights of my career, as a golfer.   I'm a golf professional myself.   I love my son, and he loves me.   To talk down the 18th at a U.S. Open is a dream come true.  
   
 Q.   How did the U.S. Open fit to your expectations of it?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   It was great.   I really enjoyed it.   I wish I could have played a little better.   But the course was great.   Like I've been saying, I learned a lot that I'll use in the future Opens to come.  
   
 Q.   What was it like for you to have your dad on the bag?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   It was great.   It was pretty cool.   It was a very cool experience that I'm sure we'll never forget.  
   
 Q.   How does the pressure of a U.S. Open, now you've played three, compare to a typical PGA TOUR tournament?   How different is it?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   You try to keep it the same.   But it's definitely got a bigger feel.   A lot bigger galleries, just everything seems to be a little bit bigger.   A lot more media.   A lot more attention to the tournament.   It just is a lot of fun, to be honest with you.   I wish every tournament was like this.   It's an enjoyable week, from the first day you get here until Sunday.  
   
 Q.   I talked to you in December at Tiger's tournament.   You're looking at the Ryder Cup as goal.   With two Majors done for the year, what are you thinking as you approach the Ryder Cup and different events coming up?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I'm going to have to play my way on to that team.   There are a lot of players trying to make that team.   I have to get back to playing better golf and to contending more consistently.   
   
 Q.   Excited about PGA coming up in a couple of months?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, I am.   Very excited.   Just the more experience I get in these tournaments the better I think I'm going to do.   
   
 Q.   What is your earliest memory of a U.S. Open with your son, either playing, watching or whatever?  
MARK BRADLEY:   I'm just trying to think where‑‑ if Keegan was born when I went to the U.S. Open at Brookline, when Nick Faldo and Curtis Strange played in a playoff.   And Curtis won.   Were you there with me?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I don't know.   
MARK BRADLEY:   Yeah, the earliest memories of U.S. Opens with my son Keegan is him driving back going to a regional or sectional qualifier and just missing the cut.   I'd wait for the call and he'd call me and say dad, I missed, and sometimes by a lot and sometimes by just a few.   
And then he shot 77.   He had a sectional qualifier in New York and missed by a shot playing at Bethpage, which was his home course in college.   So that was really disappointing.   So it's been a long haul, but he finally made it.   And it was the right time and the right place and he learned a lot.   
So I just think‑‑ he's three for three.   He's played three Majors; he's made three cuts.   And he's played beautifully in them.   You make a couple of marginal swings out here and you're going to make a big number.   But I'm just so proud of him.   He's such an awesome player.   I wouldn't trade his game for any game out there.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT