TOSTITOS FIESTA BOWL: CENTRAL FLORIDA v BAYLOR
December 29, 2013
William Stanback
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   I was talking to a couple of your teammates earlier today.   They were saying back in camp there was a season play you got a hand‑off and ran about four guys over.   That's when they knew you could play.   Do you remember that?
WILLIAM STANBACK:   I remember it just like it was yesterday. 
Coach was telling me to get out there and work hard.   We're all here for a reason.   We all have a role on this team.   We're trying to execute to the best of our abilities, trying to make the best out of it. 

Q.   You made a couple highlight plays this year that changed games.   What does it mean to you to be playing such a big role on this team?
WILLIAM STANBACK:   It means a lot.   I'm very grateful for what's going on in my life right now.   I really just want to take it all in and be positive for the rest of my life. 
Even when I graduate, I'm going to come back every game, try to visit, everything like that, as many times as I can. 

Q.   When you first got here, did you expect you'd be playing this season?
WILLIAM STANBACK:   Oh, no, no, no.   I thought I was going to get redshirted, honestly. 
When camp came rolling around, I tried to give it my all, give 100% every day. 

Q.   How big has it been to have a guy like Storm Johnson ahead of you?
WILLIAM STANBACK:   He's great.   Like I say all the time, Storm is my brother.   I hang out with him all the time.   A lot of similarities.   Both Cancers.   It doesn't mean a lot, but it means a lot.   I just met him this year and stuff like that, but I heard about him when I was in high school, ninth and tenth grade. 
I seen him on the All‑American game, but I had no chance.   In New York, they don't look at us like that.   Now that I'm here, I'm grateful for everything that comes to me. 

Q.   What do you remember most about this season?
WILLIAM STANBACK:   I'm going to go back to the Memphis game because there was a play when I did a freshman move, I punched a kid in the leg.   Coach pulled me out and said, You're not getting back in, blah, blah, blah.   I couldn't believe it.   Right after that is when I made the hit.   That's the game I mostly remember. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT