US OPEN
August 29, 1997
Irina Sprilea
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Your statements in newspapers concerning Kournikova and other players who seem to
get better court treatment, have you had players coming up to you and commenting that they
were glad you said that or they were unhappy you had said it? 
 
 IRINA SPIRLEA: No. Actually everybody said, "Finally somebody who speaks up."
But, I mean, it's not that I did it. That's how I feel. It's not that I did it because,
you know, I don't think was fair. I mean, yeah, there are a lot of people who are thinking
like this, you know. Hopefully, they speak up. Otherwise, I don't know, I'm going to be
the only one. I don't want to be the only one. 
 
Q. Seemed like this round was a lot tougher than your second round match. 
 
 IRINA SPIRLEA: I think it's tough to concentrate when you don't know the opponent. I
had no idea how she looks like, I have no idea how she plays, if she's right-handed or
lefty or whatever. So I don't know why. The light today was like different, you know. I
had problems to see the ball. So I was like surprised on the court. I have to concentrate
more than, you know, to get into the game. So, yeah, it was. 
 
Q. What did she show you? Perhaps you said you didn't know what to expect? What
impressed you about her?
 
 IRINA SPIRLEA: I think she has the game like she hits the ball pretty hard, you know,
and her serve, it's sometimes hard, sometime she mix it up. I mean, she played pretty
well. She came in sometimes. I was surprised. You know, like sometimes I was just changing
the rhythm and she was all the time there, so.  
 
Q. Irina, do you know Corina Morariu?
 
 IRINA SPIRLEA: Yeah. 
 
Q. Pretty well?
 
 IRINA SPIRLEA: Pretty well. I know her since last year when she came on The Tour. 
 
Q. Did you know about her medical problems?
 
 IRINA SPIRLEA: I saw her this morning in the locker room. It's like, "What
happened on the court?" She told me she had some problems. I don't know how you call
it.  
 
Q. Kidney. 
 
 IRINA SPIRLEA: Yeah. And she was yesterday in the hospital. I was like, "Oh,
hopefully you can make it for the double. She was trying to play the double. 
 
Q. What do you think of her game? 
 
 IRINA SPIRLEA: I have no idea how she plays. I mean, I know her, you know, we know each
other out of the court. I know that she's one hand backhand which is strange for somebody
who is playing in States, you know. That's what I know, I was surprised when I saw her
playing one-hand backhand. But I have no idea how she plays.  
 
Q. What do you think your chances are this week with the way you're playing? Have you
looked ahead in the draw?
 
 IRINA SPIRLEA: Well, I mean, I don't know who I'm playing next actually. I have no idea
on which side I'm on the draw. So I have to look on the draw. 
 
Q. You play Coetzer or Perfetti. 
 
 IRINA SPIRLEA: I mean, I played both of them. With Amanda, I had tough matches all the
time. With Perfetti, I mean, I think I won two times. We'll see next match.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT