CHASE CHAMPIONSHIPS OF THE COREL WTA TOUR
November 16, 1998
Irina Sprilea
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  How have you done against Van Roost?

IRINA SPIRLEA:  When?   The last time I played her I won.


Q.  Over a period of a year?

IRINA SPIRLEA:  I played her just once I think this year in Zurich a few weeks ago.


Q.  How did you do?

IRINA SPIRLEA:  I won, but it is not saying too much. You never know.


Q.  You have won the last like five of the last six matches from Arantxa.  Is there something about her game that you like?

IRINA SPIRLEA:  No, I think she beat me the last time --


Q.  Yeah, five of the last six.

IRINA SPIRLEA:  Okay, but I think she needs a lot today. I think that she is not doing too much, so I took the advantage of her mistakes and I just tried to keep the ball in and make more pressure when I had the chance.  It was working a little bit better for me today.


Q.  What was the key for you?   I mean, it looked very easy perhaps in the second set.

IRINA SPIRLEA:  I think she lost her concentration at the beginning of the second, she just missed three games -- I didn't do too much those three games, so then you know, I mean, once you lost -- you are three games ahead you play different than if it is 2-All, so or two-1 and you serve for to keep your serve, so....


Q.  For you is it a little bit of a comeback in a not so beautiful season?

IRINA SPIRLEA:  Well, I had my ups-and-downs.  I was not so constant this year, but maybe the end of the year, I don't know, I just took the chance to play here.  I am playing match-by-match, so, we will see.


Q.  You were up 6-3 in the tiebreak and serving for the first set.  All of a sudden you lost two points.  What happened then?

IRINA SPIRLEA:  I was a little bit too tense.  I was like  - I don't know I have to miss and always when you think you don't have to do that you think you are always good, it is unconscious. It is just coming.  I was a little bit mad with myself because I could have risk at that moment instead of at 6-All.


Q.  A lot of slice backhands tonight.  Was that part of your strategy?

IRINA SPIRLEA:  I always play like this.  It is a strategy when I play the backhand topspin.


Q.  What do you have to do to get back into the Top-10 and maybe even to get into the top two or three?

IRINA SPIRLEA:  My brain has to work.  I mean, it is not easy to stay at that level, so you just need to be constant and,  you know, take the chance when you have the chance.  So once you start to go bad then you are more tight, you -- it is even to play different, so, I hope I am coming back.


Q.  Were you disappointed this year based on what you did in 1997?

IRINA SPIRLEA:  No, last year I had my best year, but I don't think this year it is so bad.  I am still in the Top-20 and I try to move up again, so I am not so disappointed.  I would love to be in the Top-10, but it is okay.


Q.  Do people put too much emphasis on that?   It is okay being in the top two and may be having a good time away from tennis for you?

IRINA SPIRLEA:  You mean if I like to be Top-20 and have a good time?   I don't know.  I didn't hear it.


Q.  Is it just okay to be Top-20 as opposed to Top-10 if you are not that disappointed maybe you have a good time doing stuff away from tennis?   Do you have to be Top-10?

IRINA SPIRLEA:  I have been there.


Q.  I know.

IRINA SPIRLEA:  I think I can be there.  But it is not easy to stay there.  If I get the chance, you know, I try to work it again and hopefully I get back.  Otherwise I always have a good time playing.


Q.  Who is the toughest player you have played?

IRINA SPIRLEA:  This year?


Q.  Yes.

IRINA SPIRLEA:  Lindsay.  I think so.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT