US OPEN
September 4, 1998
Irina Sprilea
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. That screech at the end of the match, was that in English or Rumanian? 
 
 IRINA SPIRLEA: I don't know. I think it was Italian -- something. Italian/ Spanish, mix
it up. 
 
Q. Can you repeat it for us?
 
 IRINA SPIRLEA: No, I get another penalty. Another fine. I don't know what I said. 
 
Q. Was this more than a tennis match for you or just a regular match?
 
 IRINA SPIRLEA: No, it was a regular match. It was -- it was tough because I lost two
times against her, so -- 
 
Q. Nothing personal?
 
 IRINA SPIRLEA: No. It is already gone. Everybody is talking, but -- 
 
Q. For just a regular tennis match though you were very happy after you won?
 
 IRINA SPIRLEA: Well, I think you are happy after every match you won, so I was happy
after I beat Likhovtseva first round, so, you cannot be sad if you win a match. 
 
Q. One of the biggest points of the match might have been on the breakpoint at 40-15 --
15-40 you had that stretch wide off the court to get a return. The final serve that Serena
had?
 
 IRINA SPIRLEA: The net, she miss. 
 
Q. Can you recreate that point for us?
 
 IRINA SPIRLEA: She served, I returned with the net and then she missed the ball. So how
can I -- 
 
Q. You really had to stretch off the court to get it.
 
 IRINA SPIRLEA: Well, yeah, but, you know, I put it over there, so, you know, she missed
the point, so it is not now that I can make a story. 
 
Q. What were you saying at the end, you seemed pretty excited?
 
 IRINA SPIRLEA: I was, you know, quite, keeping everything inside, so at the end you
just let it go and you just, you know, you just relax, I think. 
 
Q. Why were you able to beat her tonight where you have had trouble with her? What was
different about this match for you?
 
 IRINA SPIRLEA: I think my serve was working pretty good, so maybe I had a little bit
more patience, except the second set. And I was quite into it, so I didn't let myself
going down and -- I wanted to win so I said I am going to give everything. 
 
Q. You don't feel particular satisfaction come back after the --
 
 IRINA SPIRLEA: After what? 
 
Q. You don't feel particular satisfaction with today's win?
 
 IRINA SPIRLEA: Well, as -- I am happy and everybody is expecting that I -- I know, you
know, Spirlea will win it, is like oh, good match, everybody is like that, but I think
what it was last year it is already, you know, so we have no problems anymore. 
 
Q. After the second set, what did you tell yourself beginning third set, what did you
do better?
 
 IRINA SPIRLEA: It was hard to get back into the match because I was completely out of
the court so I was trying to get that second game in the third set with my serve so I was
trying to get it back, put the ball into the court and try to play the point because I was
-- I don't know, trying to kill every ball, so it is not working with Serena so, I need
more patience and I was trying to get back into the match. 
 
Q. How hard was it keeping your composure during the match? Seemed like a number of
times you would hit balls and it looked like there was no way she would get it in.
Something would happen, you would lose the point --
 
 IRINA SPIRLEA: Well, let's start because I know that she is going to get every point,
but inside of you, you think it is automatically -- you think it is finished, the point.
So it is something, you know, in between you say, okay, I won the point, then you see the
ball coming, it is like, oh, it is coming back. So you know it is hard to finish that
point after. But I think it helped me because you know that -- they are everywhere, so,
you are a little bit more focused on the ball then when you play them first time. 
 
Q. How do they compare as players, the two of them Venus and Serena?
 
 IRINA SPIRLEA: I mean, they serve well and they hit the ball pretty hard. Sometimes it
is like you can just play with their power, but I think Serena has a better forehand. The
one crosscourt, when she is running like she is getting unbelievable angle and they can --
they are not similar. It is, okay, they hit the same, but they are not quite similar as
the game. 
 
Q. After last year's Open when you walked out of here and it could not have been a
positive moment for you losing a semifinal and then with all the attention on that
incident, how much satisfaction -- you know that you left here with that. It was sort of
this cloud overhead. When you came back this year, was it tough to get back into the draw
and is there some kind of satisfaction as a result tonight?
 
 IRINA SPIRLEA: I think what is tough to play the next tournament after U.S. Open than
this US Open. So, no, I had a tough first round actually playing Likhovtseva, so was I
like, ooh, ooh, it is not too easy to get into the match, but maybe it helped that I was
more concentrate than when you know that you play with somebody that it is so and so, so
-- I didn't think about what happened last year so much. So far everybody leave me alone
so nobody was -- 
 
Q. When you came back here you were thinking I mean, you had the positive of getting to
the semifinals next year and negative of leaving that way which one outweighed the other?
 
 IRINA SPIRLEA: What do you mean? 
 
Q. Which one stayed in your mind more, positive of reaching the semifinals last year or
the negative of what happened during that match?
 
 IRINA SPIRLEA: No, I tried to take all the time what is positive and what you do, you
do and then you try to make it back if you can and then, you know, I mean, but I think it
was the best tournament I played last year, so, I have to enjoy it. 
 
Q. You have to play Novotna next. She always gives you a lot of trouble.
 
 IRINA SPIRLEA: Yeah. 
 
Q. Talk about Novotna?
 
 IRINA SPIRLEA: Another story: Okay. (laughter). Actually I never beat her, but you
never know what is going to happen about -- I can play well and she can be in a bad day
and she can play so and so, so, you know, it is not the kind of player I like to play, but
I give a try. Once I am there, you know, everything can happen. 
 
Q. Good story.
 
 IRINA SPIRLEA: End. 
 
Q. After the US Open, let us say over the last year you haven't really played up to the
level of tennis that you showed here last year in beating Seles, why was that?
 
 IRINA SPIRLEA: This year, you mean?  
 
Q. From --
 
 IRINA SPIRLEA: From the beginning of the year. 
 
Q. From September from when you left here last year until now.
 
 IRINA SPIRLEA: At the end of the year last year I played I think well. I had two, three
semis and semis at the Chase, so, I think I played well. I had a lot of points to defend
this year, so, I don't think I played, you know, bad. 
 
Q. Are you at the level where you want to be?
 
 IRINA SPIRLEA: Now? 
 
Q. Now.
 
 IRINA SPIRLEA: Well, I don't feel like I play like last year, but I am happy about the
way I play. You have to take it -- take something positive about what you do anyway, so,
you know, I am happy now and I try to make it better if I can. 
 
Q. You said that last year's incident with Venus Williams is in the past; it has been
forgotten. Have things been pleasant with you, polite; it is just a regular relationship
among players?
 
 IRINA SPIRLEA: Yeah, yeah, yeah. It is like again -- (laughter). Okay, next time we
have both interview here and okay, I don't know what to do anymore. We shake hands
already. We talked, so everybody is like, are you talking with her? Yeah, I am talking
with her, yeah, she is talking with me. She is answering? So, it is like -- yeah, I mean
it is normal. And I think everybody else, it is normal with them and they are normal with
everybody else, you know, everybody is happy. 
 
Q. It is normal, but could you guys be friends, meaning go out to dinner, go to a
party?
 
 IRINA SPIRLEA: Don't go so far. (laughter). That is like, you know, I don't have time
to have dinner tonight. I have room service, so I am going to call her in my room and have
room service. This is like -- (laughter)...... 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT