CHASE CHAMPIONSHIPS OF THE COREL WTA TOUR
November 21, 1997
Irina Sprilea
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  What do you expect from the match tomorrow?

IRINA SPIRLEA:  I played her on clay, I think, at the French Open and she was attacking me even there a lot when she came at the net a lot.  So I expect her to come to the net and try and make pressure on my backhand, which everybody thinks is the weakest shot I had.  I'll see tomorrow how I can mix it up, see how I can make her in defense a little bit.


Q.  Do you have any special tactic?

IRINA SPIRLEA:  At this time, no.


Q.  What is your fascination with drop shots? You seem to always go back to that as a strategy?  You have like some kind of love for them, like a passion?

IRINA SPIRLEA:  I think I like to make drop shots because it makes me kind of happy when I can have the touch for the ball.  So everybody is expecting you to hit hard, especially with my forehand, so sometimes  it seems like I don't care, but I just make it.  I feel well when I make it.


Q.  Is that a little bit of Ilea Nastase?

IRINA SPIRLEA:  It's not that he's my father.


Q.  He isn't?

IRINA SPIRLEA:  I don't know how he was playing, actually I'm seeing him just once.


Q.  He used to do a lot of drop shots?  He was a touch player, too?

IRINA SPIRLEA:  I like to make drop shots.


Q.  You were making a lot of them tonight?

IRINA SPIRLEA:  Not so many as I would like to.


Q.  More than against venous?  What was going on in your mind at the match points?

IRINA SPIRLEA:  I just wanted to return the first ball, not to miss the return.  I would have been pretty upset if I was missing the return on the match point.  And then I think she was a little bit on the back of the court, she wasn't so aggressive on the ball.  So I just took the chance and played the point.  I wasn't too scared -- I don't know why, I was pretty cool at the match point.


Q.  What shot was working best for you, do you  think?

IRINA SPIRLEA:  I think my forehand, maybe my serve, even if sometimes I was having ups and down, for some reason I was missing eight balls in a row and then I was coming back.  I think we both have ups and downs in the match.


Q.  I noticed when she had the match point you were hitting a forehand down the line.  You seem to be very confident with that?

IRINA SPIRLEA:  Well, as I said, I was not shaking, so sometimes you have more tension on you, sometimes you feel okay, you just play the point.  So I was in that mood that -- that's okay, I hit the shot.


Q.  You have very beautiful technique and beautiful ground strokes, what is the area of your game that needs to be shored up?

IRINA SPIRLEA:  To improve?


Q.  Yes, that you really try to consciously work on in your game?

IRINA SPIRLEA:  Maybe to move better on the court and cut a little bit more the court, so if I move well I can do it.


Q.  What about coming to the net a little more, when you do come to the net you have a good volley?

IRINA SPIRLEA:  I start playing on clay, so  it's kind of tough to change it.  I try to work on it, but it's not coming as I would like to.  But I'll see, I'll try to work on it.


Q.  The potential is definitely there?

IRINA SPIRLEA:  I try to.


Q.  How do you see the semifinal?

IRINA SPIRLEA:  I said before I expect her to attack me on the backhand and make pressure, come at the net.  Now it's just that I finished my match so I'll have time to think about it, and try and do different things, which maybe would make her a little bit difficult.


Q.  What's your best advantage over her?

IRINA SPIRLEA:  What's my best?


Q.  Advantage over her?

IRINA SPIRLEA:  I think I have to serve well and return well.  So then if the point is going on I can handle it, but the first point I have to serve and return well.


Q.  How big a win is this for you?  You've come to the U.S., there was an enormous amount of crowd support for Mary, how big is this for you?

IRINA SPIRLEA:  Actually I'm doing pretty well in New York, I don't know why.  But winning, you know, with three match points down it gives you a lot  of confidence, so I'm pretty confident with myself and I'm happy about the year I have and I just play my best tennis.  I don't see a reason why I cannot play well.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT