DAVIS CUP - SPAIN vs AUSTRALIA
December 8, 2000
John Newcombe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MODERATOR: We'll let you know that Pat is not coming to press. He's cramping quite
severely. We have John here now. We'll get some quotes from Pat and pass them out to you. 

Q. Is it just cramping? "Just"? 

CAPTAIN NEWCOMBE: Yes. He just started to feel it after the second set in his calf
muscles and in his hand, in his right hand, which is unusual because he has had cramps
before, but not in those two areas. We're a bit puzzled about what was happening. 

Q. When he was treated, it was after a point where he looked like he jarred himself? It
wasn't that, it was the cramping? 

CAPTAIN NEWCOMBE: The cramp moved into his thigh. 

Q. Will he be okay for Sunday? 

CAPTAIN NEWCOMBE: That's what we're going to see. He'll be okay to play, I guess. It's
a question of what happens during the match. He's worked hard. We're a bit puzzled. I
don't know. These things are strange. Perhaps it was the tension of Lleyton's match. You
know, the body was tensing too much while he was watching that mainly on television in the
dressing room. It's a strange one. 

Q. On Lleyton's performance, where would that rate among the heroic Davis Cup single's
performances you've witnessed? 

CAPTAIN NEWCOMBE: I think that's right up there with the best of them. You know, as we
all know, he hasn't been that great for the last four months. He went through his own
personal pain barrier out there and came out the other side. That's pretty exceptional
when you can do it under those conditions. 

Q. We were told he also had the crowd to contend with rather a lot today? 

CAPTAIN NEWCOMBE: Who, Lleyton? 

Q. Yes.

CAPTAIN NEWCOMBE: I mean, he didn't do anything out there to incite the crowd. I
thought it was a little unsportsmanlike. I guess that's what they wanted to do to try to
upset him. He certainly didn't do anything to warrant the treatment he was getting. I
would add to that, though, I mean, Lleyton only has a short history, but that history is
showing it's the wrong thing to do, to provoke him. 

Q. You're out there talking to Pat at the changeovers. How many games had the thought
of quitting been there? Did you talk to him through a couple of changeovers? 

CAPTAIN NEWCOMBE: No. Only really the last changeover we talked about it. What we were
getting worried about was the cramp in his arm here (indicating forearm) especially with
all the problems he's had. If he's trying to serve like that, the arm is cramping up, he
could re-hurt his shoulder. It was going to be sort of a miracle to come back from that
position. He was only going to do himself damage - possibly do himself damage. It was
better to leave it and try to get ready for the fifth match on Sunday, if it's needed. 

Q. In your years as a player and then in Australia, have you ever experienced a
situation where your opposing coach was more cheerleader than actual coach? 

CAPTAIN NEWCOMBE: I don't -- I think I'll leave that one. It speaks for itself. 

Q. Was there a case that the partisan crowd rule needed to be invoked today? 

CAPTAIN NEWCOMBE: No. They were making a lot of noise. It didn't worry our guys. That's
what you expect. That's fun. I thought it was good. The only thing with the partisan crowd
rule is for deliberately trying to put somebody off. The constant noise isn't a problem at
all. 

Q. How much did Lleyton have left there? He said he was deep down into his reserves. 

CAPTAIN NEWCOMBE: Yeah. Once you go through that, you know, he went through a pain
barrier halfway through the third set. Once you come out the other side of that, you're in
sort of the dark side. Sometimes you can go on for a long, long time. It's very cold and
windy, not very nice, but you can go for a long time. 

Q. Do you consider this result as good for Australia after the first day?

CAPTAIN NEWCOMBE: Yes. We're happy with one win. The doubles is going to be, you know,
a very pivotal situation, obviously. I think that will be a great match. I think it will
be, you know, a lot of fun out there. A bit torturous to watch, but it will be a lot of
fun for everyone. 

Q. Do you expect Spain to substitute Corretja on Sunday, and for which match? What is
your thought? 

CAPTAIN NEWCOMBE: Probably the fifth match. 

Q. In a sense, have you kind of run the whole gamut of emotions today in two matches? 

CAPTAIN NEWCOMBE: Yeah, a little bit, yeah. I mean, the first one was a match that you
wondered how Lleyton was going to be able to win it. Under those conditions and with
everything that -- taking everything that was going on, it was very, very important to
just stay really calm and keep the situation down as low as you possibly could. That was,
you know, the most important thing I think in those situations. It was really maybe not
the normal type of match you might be involved in with Lleyton where there would be a lot
more fist pumping. You tried to sort of cut that out as much as possible and keep it as
low-key as you could. 

Q. The fact that you delayed packing up this job for a year to accommodate Pat, how
disappointing was it the way it ended this evening?

CAPTAIN NEWCOMBE: We're only in day one. This is a three-day affair. The unfinished
business is still unfinished. Don't worry about Pat, he'll be there Sunday afternoon. 

Q. What is your opinion of the court? Do you think it's very quick, the clay court, or
is it fair? 

CAPTAIN NEWCOMBE: It's a medium clay court. It's not fast; it's not slow. We're happy
with it. 

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT