PAC-12 CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
March 5, 2021
Aari McDonald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  UCLA - 58, Arizona - 49
 Q. Aari, tough night tonight for the team, but what are your initial thoughts from today's game?
 AARI MCDONALD:   It was a tough game.  It was a physical game.  We're getting the stops.  We're going in scoring droughts didn't help.  Crucial rebounds, not stopping the ball.  Gotta go back to the drawing board.  We have three weeks until the postseason.  So we've got to get better.
 Q. It seemed like every time you guys pulled within one or two points that UCLA was able to go on a run.  What went into that?
 AARI MCDONALD:   Not stopping balls.  Lack of focus.  Just not being together.  Not communicating.  Yeah.  We just gotta stay focused, locked in for 40 minutes.
 Q. You guys never gave up today.  And it showed in that last three minutes or so when you really started making that comeback and you came within a couple points.  How does it -- it's hard to say this, but how does it feel for the second year in a row that you guys were denied your shot at that title?
 AARI MCDONALD:   It sucks.  Being a competitor, you don't want to lose.  You want to play hard for 40 minutes but it sucks especially this is my last go around.  But I'm proud of my team for fighting all the way, just wasn't there yet.  Lack of focus for some plays, but we've got to get better.
 Q. It's been such a grind this season, abnormal season.  Now, like you said, you have a little bit of a break.  How important is that or how much will you guys take advantage of that?
 AARI MCDONALD:   I wouldn't really call it a break.  We wasn't hitting shots tonight.  So, I mean, I think we have to hold ourselves accountable.  We've got to get better.  It's okay to take a day or two off but gotta get into the gym and shoot and get better.
 Q. I was talking about the break from now, like the three week break you guys will have from the tournament.  How will you make that to your advantage?
 AARI MCDONALD:   Just getting in the gym shoot.  Work on what you need to work on.  Just gotta be aggressive and gotta make shots.
 Q. Helena has been really struggling.  Is there anything you can do to help her get out of this slump that she's in?
 AARI MCDONALD:   Just keep encouraging her.  I tell her all the time to shoot.  Nobody is going to be mad at her for shooting if she misses.  We'll take it.  She's our best shooter.  We need her to be an offensive threat at all times and keep encouraging her, talking to her, keeping her spirits high.
 Q. Have you noticed anything that she's been kind of just struggling or have you noticed anything about her from these last few games?
 AARI MCDONALD:   Just we run sets for her.  She wants to put the ball on the floor first.  It's like, hey, shoot it.  Just shoot the ball.  Just gotta get that through her head.  Again, she's young.  But, hey, she's our best shooter and we need her.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT