JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 11, 2018
Broc Everett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Like to welcome Broc Everett to the interview room here at the John Deere Classic.  Broc, making your PGA Tour debut this week, and quite the young successful career so far having earned medalist honors through Augusta University.   
How excited are you to be making your tour debut here at the John Deere Classic?   
BROC EVERETT: Yeah, this is awesome.  Obviously it's a huge honor to be playing against some of best guys in the world.  Being from Iowa, obviously this is the event that every Iowan kind of holds in the highest regard.  It's cool to be making my PGA TOUR debut at John Deere Classic.   
I'm really excited for the week.  It's already been so awesome meeting a bunch of the guys out there on the practice range, hanging out with many Wesley Bryan, my good buddy.  So it's already been an awesome week, and I'm looking in order to four days of good golf.   
THE MODERATOR: How much time have you spent on this golf course over the years?   
BROC EVERETT: You know, I never actually had played this course until this week.  I've played Davenport Country Club for state my freshman year of high school, but never really made it over to Deere Run.  This is my first time playing it.  Yeah, course is awesome.  It's in great shape.  It'll be fun.   
THE MODERATOR: My last question:  Are you the kind of person that comes out with goals in mind?  Are you just kind of glad to be here, let's see where it takes me?   
BROC EVERETT: Yeah, my goal is always take it one shot at a time, make sure I'm executing my game plan as best I can and making sure that I have a good plan for every shot and try and execute that plan as best I can.   
That's the way went into NCAA Nationals.  Didn't let the results affect me at all.  Just trying to do my best on each shot.  We're going to take that same attitude here to the John Deere Classic.  Just try and play each shot the best I can and see where it ends up taking me at the end of the week.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
 Q.  This being your first start, pressure?  Expectations?  Mindset?  Ready to tee it up tomorrow?  
BROC EVERETT: Yeah.  I mean, there is always pressure at any big event you're going to play in.  I mean, once you get to a certain point, you would rather be nervous than not nervous.  If you're not nervous then you don't care.   
I know I'm going to be nervous on the first tee and I just kind of accept that and only take the shot at hand as what I'm trying to do.  Don't let the whole gravity of the situation take over.   
Just going to be focusing on each individual shot, every single one this week, so...   
 Q.  Over the last I guess six weeks now since you won and making that transition from college to pro, I imagine it's been a whirlwind.  What's been kind of the biggest things that have stood out and the biggest things you've tried to hone in on in this adjustment period?  
BROC EVERETT: Yeah, it's kind of funny.  That's a good question.  I mean, really just making sure that I'm still doing the things -- I prepared really well for all my collegiate events.  I had a really good routine, really good way of preparing for every single event.   
I found once I started -- I played a few events up in Canada -- I was changing it a little bit and letting some of the other things that you have to take care of when you're a professional kind of leak into my game.   
I realized pretty quickly that you still are playing golf.  You need to take each tournament as important as the next one, as important as the last one.   
So I think that's been the biggest learning point, is that it's still golf.  You still have to play golf.  Nothing has changed.  It's the same game.  That's been the biggest takeaway going from collegiate golf on to professional golf.   
 Q.  How much has your life changed?  
BROC EVERETT: It's just fun.  So many people are coming up and saying congratulations.  I go back to my home club Des Moines Golf, and everybody there is coming up and saying hi.  It's been an awesome feeling.   
But in terms of golf, just more people are -- just a few more opportunities than I would've had, like playing in this event wouldn't have been possible without NCAAs.   
I think it's just fun.  It's been an exciting time, just all the opportunities that have been coming my way.   
Everybody is still the same.  Everybody has just been just very nice, so it's cool for sure.   
 Q.  There is an old saying, takes a lifetime to become an overnight success.  Some people might've looked at you as an overnight success, but your journey, to get on the team even, when you put all that together, it's taken a while.  It paid off right there that one time.  
BROC EVERETT: Yeah, exactly.  Yeah, when you look at it from where I started my collegiate career, you wouldn't have thought that five years later I would making my debut at the John Deere Classic.  I'll say that.   
But I had so many good people sown in Augusta that I worked with, my coaches, all the players that have come through and kind of pushed me along and showed me the way.  That's where it's really led me to this point.   
So when you look about three years back, I was improving so much I knew I could start compete with these guys, start competing with the guys at the collegiate level.   
I been playing golf with Wesley Bryan now for four years, and he's always been pushing me.  I knew him before he started the trick shot stuff, let alone winning on the Web.Com Tour and winning on the PGA TOUR.   
So to see one of your good buddies who you've been practicing with and comparing yourself with do so well at the PGA TOUR level winning RBC Heritage level two years ago -- or was it?  Yeah, two years ago.  I mean, you can kind of just see that it's possible.   
We figured out that there are tons of people that have come through the Augusta program that have been able to be successful at the next level.  Those kind of things have really propelled me to know that I can compete at level, too.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible.)  
BROC EVERETT: Yeah, he sent me a really nice text after Nationals.  He said congratulations, something along those lines.  Yeah, he was super nice about that.  He hasn't come back to the facility, but he sent me a nice text, so that was pretty cool.   
 Q.  What have been some of the nice moments you've had meeting other players on the course so far this week?  
BROC EVERETT: Yeah, even just today, my coach -- so my coach played on the PGA TOUR back -- '98?  I don't remember exactly the year, but...   
So he knows a few people out here still and they all know him.  Met Chad Campbell earlier.  He was the nicest guy.  Just meeting people with Wesley.  Ran into Zach Johnson the other day and just said hi kind of in passing.   
It's cool.  Everybody has been very, very nice.  All said congratulations so it's cool.   
 Q.  Any advice or tips they gave you?  I guess you're all competitors.  
BROC EVERETT: Yeah, not really.  I mean, I've talked with Wesley a bunch.  Everybody has been super nice, but nothing like -- no big time advice or anything.   
 Q.  What is your connection to Wesley?  
BROC EVERETT: He practices at our facility in Augusta.  His wife went to our medical school at Augusta University, so he moved into town with her and asked our coach if he could practice at our facility, so I just ended up practicing with him every day because was always out there bugging everybody.   
So I figured I would throw him a bone and play with him a little bit.   
 Q.  Good at trick shots?  
BROC EVERETT: Am I?  I taught him everything he knows.  He just never gives me any credit.  (Laughter.)   
 Q.  Go back to I guess when you got the news this was going to be on table.  What was that moment like?  
BROC EVERETT: You mean playing in the John Deere Classic?  Yeah, well, I finished Nationals and I didn't go to bed until like 4:30 that night.  I was just wired.  I couldn't go to bed.   
The next morning I'm in the airport because I am flying up to Vancouver for the first Mackenzie Tour event right after that.  And I didn't even think about it.  I hadn't processed anything.   
I get a call from Clair Peterson, tournament director, giving me an invite to play in the event.  I didn't even realize it would be on the table that quickly, but he reached out really quickly and I'm really thankful he got me into the event so fast.  I think I was the last sponsor's exemption.   
So it's very really cool.  I'm very excited that he was able to give me that.   
 Q.  Did it take a while for things to slow down?  I know between answering text messages and going to Canada.  Did it slow down after a while, and did that affect your game in the short term?  
BROC EVERETT: I think it did.  I wish I had taken the first Mackenzie Tour event off.  It was just so much so fast.  I was prepared to go up to Canada, but I wasn't prepared to go up to Canada with all the opportunities that had been thrown out to me right away after winning Nationals.   
So in terms of that though, wasn't too bad.  It's since settled down.  It settled down probably two weeks after that and I was able to kind of catch my breath and get my bearings.   
Yeah, a little bit of a learning curve for sure.   
 Q.  (Regarding NCAA champions.)  
BROC EVERETT: It's cool.  It's awesome.  It was my first collegiate win.  I had been up there near the lead and knew I could compete with all those guys out there.  They're all really, really good players, but I knew my game was just as good.   
It was nice to finally get that winning -- get the win in front of all those guys.  It was cool.   
 Q.  What's the biggest key for you tomorrow to play your best?  
BROC EVERETT: Yeah, I'm just going to go out there and play it one shot at a time, like I said.  Coach and I have a good game plan.  Coach is caddying for me this week, so we've got a good game plan.   
We're just going to go out and do all the same stuff we were doing at regionals and nationals at the end of the season there.   
 Q.  Coming from a short-season state, the tournament level there, the tournaments are pretty good, the competition is pretty good.  How much do you think that helps you prepare for...  
BROC EVERETT: You mean like high school and...   
 Q.  Like the state amateurs and stuff like that.  
BROC EVERETT: Yeah, exactly.  You got great players here in Iowa.  You've got like Gene Elliott, Mike McCoy, and all those guys.  Bunch of the before college players that go to Iowa State, Ruben Sondjaja.  He's playing on the Mackenzie Tour and doing pretty well.   
When I come back home during the summer I had several good events to play in, and there is always good competition up here, even though it's a short season, like you say.   
I still think the competition is -- the top end of the competition is just as good as anywhere else in the country for sure.   
THE MODERATOR: Broc, we appreciate your time and wish you all the best this week.   
BROC EVERETT: Thank you very much, guys.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT