MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 23, 2017
I.K. Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: It's my pleasure to welcome in In-Kyung Kim, the winner of the 2017 Marathon Classic.  Tell us about your round today and how it feels to hoist that trophy.
I.K. KIM: It feels like 20 years ago already, the first hole.  Yeah, I had a great day.  I have been hitting it very solid over the few days, and today I was feeling really good about my putting before going out, and I wasn't expecting to go very low, but I did my best, and sometimes without expectation, just, I guess, it works out.
Q. Your sixth LPGA victory, second already this year.  How does this compare?
I.K. KIM: I think each one has -- I can't compare it to other tournaments, but yeah, this one is very special because after the U.S. Open, I feel like I prepared very well during the last two majors, and I wasn't as successful as I expected, which maybe that's why I didn't play as well.  But this week I wanted to play my best game, and just coming over here, it feels really good.  I know the transportation people, the volunteers, and people are very welcoming, so it's been great fun.
Q. You have four top-20 finishes at the Marathon Classic.  You were the runner-up.  What is it about this tournament that makes you play so well?
I.K. KIM: I think overall, I'm very consistent with my shots, and I think this week you have to hit the fairways.  Some holes are very shaping holes, and I was very comfortable playing those holes, and I feel like I took advantage of that, birdied three of the par-5s.
Q. How much momentum does this win give you going into the rest of the season with two more major championships on the horizon?
I.K. KIM: Definitely I'll be more confident going into the tournament.  But at the same time, each tournament has a very unique style, and just getting used to the golf course and having the knowledge before a tournament starts, I think that's the key to play well.  So I look forward to more opportunities.
Q. When you made the turn did you think 59 was possible?
I.K. KIM: I wish I had that thought going on, that somebody told me, but no, I just played one hole at a time.  Even 9, I never played the front tee before, so it was kind of like, okay, I saw some of the other players just hitting the driver and laying up, and then just played the hole and was able to birdie it even there, and even 8 I made a one-putt.  I think when things are going well, it just adds up.
Q. You started out well with the approach shot on 1.  How much did that give you confidence for the rest of the day?
I.K. KIM: I think today the pin positions were a little bit comfortable for me.  I've been hitting little draws this week, and when the pin is tucked on the left side, I was having a hard time, but I think just knowing when I'm doing kind of helped me to plan out the round.
Q. Have you ever opened a round with a 28 before in tournament play?
I.K. KIM: Here, I had 27, like 10 years ago.
Q. When you have a 27 or 28 like today, what does that feel like when you're playing that well?  What does it feel like out there?
I.K. KIM: It's something that you hope for, that you're looking forward to, and sometimes I get disappointed if I don't play well.  You know, but like those rounds, like a low score comes in when I'm not expecting so much, and it's hard to do, not expecting and not thinking ahead of time.  But I think that's what I was able to do today.
Q. You've set a tournament record here, 23-under.  Did you know about that at all going down the stretch, that you were close to setting a tournament record?
I.K. KIM: Now I know.  But I wasn't really thinking -- starting when I was 13-under, I was thinking, maybe a few more putts on the first three rounds, which I could have, then I'll have a better chance, but I think everybody kind of had the same story.  Today was just looking, and it's nice to have a low score one of those four rounds.
Q. (Question about the birdie from 32 feet.)
I.K. KIM: You know, today the left-to-right putt I was very comfortable because the last two days I wasn't very low, and I didn't know why, and just a little tweak on my posture, and it was starting the line, and that was the key today.
Q. When you made the 32-foot putt, does that speak to being locked in, knowing that you had to do that?
I.K. KIM: I mean, for me, yes, because I'm very consistent.  I will hit the fairways and the greens and make putts, I think it's very -- how do you say?  Not much drama I would say.  I'm very consistent.  So that's my strength, and if I make those 30-foot putts, that's very special.  I mean, I really cherish those moments.  You know, it doesn't happen all the time, and when it goes in at the right time, it's just more fun.
Q. What did you do during the weather delay?
I.K. KIM: I said before I watched a little bit of a movie that I couldn't finish yesterday.  It was perfect.  For like 40 minutes I watched it, and also, I was getting texts like congratulations.  I'm like, I'm not even done yet, what's going on.  But you know, this mind game can be quite funny in sports, but you know, who I am doesn't change really, and that's what I've learned over the years.  Just I have very few friends that I talk to and know who I am.  My best friend, we went to high school together, she's working for Golf Channel, so we watched a movie together last night, and then I actually finished it.  We were going to finish it, but I just watched it.  So even though I'm here playing golf, I really do have a very good foundation of family and friends, and I think that's all that matters at the end.
Q. What movie did you watch?
I.K. KIM: "The Pianist."
Q. Beatles pin on your hat; good luck charm?  Can you explain it?
I.K. KIM: So far it's working, I think.  My really good friend, actually a fan from here, he comes to other tournaments, and he knows that I love Beatles and Paul McCartney, and he gave me this, and I put it on, and just like, dang, just good vibe, I think.
Q. How many congratulatory texts did you get in the clubhouse?  That's pretty funny.
I.K. KIM: I had a few, but I wasn't really checking, because I'm like, I'm watching a movie, stop texting me.
Q. What did one of the texts say, one of the congratulations texts?
I.K. KIM: We're cheering for you, pulling for you, like Mother Nature helped, stuff like that.  But I'll text them later, I'm charging my phone.
Q. (Indiscernible.)
I.K. KIM: You know, I kind of let go of it.  I kind of moved on with joy and love instead of fear because if fear comes in there's nothing I can do.  So yeah, I just relaxed and -- yeah.
Q. Were you watching a movie on your phone?
I.K. KIM: Yes.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT