MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 13, 2018
I.K. Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How disappointed are you to not birdie 17 or 18?  
I.K. KIM: I hit a good drive and gave myself an opportunity, but it was a tricky lie.  The greens have been super firm on the back nine.  Not only 17 and 18, it was very difficult to get it close to the hole.   
 Q.  You're 6-under, you're right in it, obviously.  Just your thoughts heading into the weekend?  
I.K. KIM: It depends on the weather.  If it gets -- stays like this, hot and firm and dries out, it's going to be very tricky.  But I think I had a good practice today, and I'll make some better adjustments tomorrow.   
 Q.  Your goal or strategy tomorrow, to try to shoot at pins and get birdies?  
I.K. KIM: I just said it; I can't really go for the pin when it's downwind and the greens are really firm.  So I really didn't have many chances today on the back nine.  But like you said, 17 and 18, I gave myself a good opportunity, but at the same time, on the par-5 I wasn't very -- I don't think I was that lucky.   
 Q.  To close the way you did, probably not exactly what you wanted to do coming home?  
I.K. KIM: You know, I knew there was some chances, but like you saw, the wind was blowing differently.  I had a lot of downwind, downhill lie on the back nine, and 17 and 18 I had almost exact same yardage, but the ground was firm on 17, and 18 I had a little bit of upslope.  I don't think I adjusted very well there, but overall I gave myself today even in the circumstances, not my favorite circumstances, firm and dry.  But I think I'm going to do a better adjustment tomorrow.   
 Q.  You're still in a good spot going into Saturday and Sunday.  
I.K. KIM: I think for everyone it was tricky today, and you can see there are not many low, low scores out there, I think because the wind was blowing totally opposite direction today.  Obviously in the afternoon groups, the greens were way faster than yesterday morning.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT