THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 15, 2017
I.K. Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What did you think of yesterday and the conditions?  Were they the toughest you've seen?  
IK KIM: Yeah, at one point with the rain and the wind.  I mean, we play in the wind a lot, but with the rain, it felt like quite dangerous to be honest.  So they stopped us on -- we were on No. 14, so we played five holes.  I guess it just was impossible to -- while we were playing when it was windy, the tree was all down.   
 Q.  Limbs were going down?  
IK KIM: Yeah, like cleaning up probably was tough for them.   
 Q.  But you turned around and had a great round today.  Tell us about how you feel after this round.  
IK KIM: Today I hit a lot of good shots.  What else?  Hit a lot of good putts, and yeah, there were a few holes that were really long, but they moved the tee on No. 18, and on the front, No. 4, I think, so that was kind of -- it was playable.  But the par-3 was very long on 5.  I think I managed those holes pretty well.   
 Q.  Were you surprised they wiped out the scores?  
IK KIM: I mean, they always do a pretty good job of it, you know.  You mean the grass and stuff, the trees?   
 Q.  No, whatever you did yesterday was erased.  
IK KIM: I mean, I think it would have been very unfair to be honest if it were an advantage for the major because today is so nice, and if we just played and then come back in the morning, it would have been just at least four shots different, I think.   
 Q.  Is life different after you won the British?  
IK KIM: My life is the same, but all the reaction is quite different.   
 Q.  It doesn't feel different, though, to you?  Do you feel different?  
IK KIM: No.  I think I got to the point where my life was just fine.   
 Q.  Either way?  
IK KIM: Yeah, either way.  But it is nice to win a major because you always want it, but I don't want to say I stopped wanting it.  I always want to perform well.  But it's not in my control.  That's what I learned from the past.  I don't know why now, but it's nice.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT