RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
August 3, 2017
I.K. Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You've had two wins in the last two months on the LPGA Tour.  You finished in a tie for ninth at the Ladies' Scottish Open last week, and you're 5-under through your first eight holes at the Ricoh Women's British Open.  How good is your game right now?  
I.K. KIM: Just hitting it on line.  Just, I don't know, I'm just so amazed by the golf course.  It's so pretty out there, and I was kind of expecting the rain, but it was blue sky.  Yeah, hitting the fairways and greens, and I was able to make some putts.   
 Q.  You're making your tenth appearance at the Women's British Open.  How would you describe this style of golf, and how much do you enjoy playing it?  
I.K. KIM: I think playing the Scottish Open really helped me to prepare for this week because we had so much wind over there, and I never got used to the ground and how to play in one week, so I think, yeah, I'm just -- just one day at a time.   
 Q.  You took advantage out there today.  How pleasing to be in that post-round talking to the media and reflecting on that terrific score.  
I.K. KIM: Well, I think I made four birdies in five holes or six holes, so that was quite fun to play, and in good conditions.   
 Q.  When it's like this and seeing some of the numbers posted this morning heading out there, what was the feeling about wanting to go out there and trying to go low?  
I.K. KIM: Yeah, the wind was picking up on the back nine, and just the scenery is so pretty.  It's hard to focus on the game actually.  But I was able to hit good shots and adjusted to the speed of the greens early on.   
 Q.  Talk about the putt on 15.  
I.K. KIM: Yeah, I was just excited to hit it past the hole.  I'd been short a few times.   
 Q.  And then another chance to take advantage at 16.  
I.K. KIM: Yeah, the speed was right just on, yeah.  Left to right, I've been working on a lot of left to right putts, and it just worked out.   
 Q.  What was it like coming into this week after the season you've had so far?  
I.K. KIM: I'm just very grateful having this opportunity to play this golf course, and I'm staying at the hotel, and there are a lot of foreigners that come here to play and pay so much money.   
 Q.  And coming to watch you guys.  
I.K. KIM: I'm just like, no complaints.  I really hope that we're not going to get so much rain, but so far, so good.   
 Q.  All in all, you're playing well, you love the scenery, the sun is shining.  That's a pretty good combination.  You're happy right now?  
I.K. KIM: Yeah.  I will be happier when I eat lunch after this.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT