LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 21, 2019
Joe Burrow
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








LSU-66, Vanderbilt-38
Q. What did you see from Ja'Marr today? Four touchdowns, kind of alternated receivers with every game who gets kind of the most but what did you see from him today?
JOE BURROW: He was all right today, wasn't he. Yeah, that's one of the better performances I've seen the. Nobody could cover him at all today. He was getting open on just about every play. So I was happy for him to have that kind of game.
Q. Is that what y'all wanted to do coming in focus on Ja'Marr?
JOE BURROW: That's just how it kind of happened. They were bringing a lot of pressure early so I had to get the ball out of my hands fast and he was the one winning right way.
Q. Were you conscious of the touchdown record that you set today?
JOE BURROW: They told me when it happened, I was more focused on going to get another one. We didn't get any after that. So there were a lot of good things, a lot of bad things today, but I was happy with it.
Q. How would you rate your day today? I know you're a perfectionist, but.
JOE BURROW: I rate myself on how the offense performs. I would say we were a B today. We were really good in the first half, two turnovers that we can't have could you see points. So we got some things to fix but there's still a lot to be happy about.
Q. You guys have looked very developed each game are you seeing more development more chemistry as far as comfort being in the system?
JOE BURROW: Yeah I think we're starting to see that we can do this every game against every team. This is who we are as an offense we're going to go try to score every time. We're going to throw the ball around and we're going to throw it to open up the run. So I'm happy with where we are right now.
Q. Those first four drives, five place each or less to score a touchdown what was working to score so quickly?
JOE BURROW: The receivers were making a lot of plays after the catch. I was doing my best to put the ball in position for them to run after the catch and they did a great job making plays afterwards.
Q. Feel like anything you threw out there was going to go at a certain point?
JOE BURROW: Yeah I felt, the first half felt as good as any first half that I've had. And then second half we kind of took a step back, I think we kind of let our foot off the gas, we're not going to be able to do that late in the season.
Q. You had some words for that defender when he hit you on the sideline. What did you say to him?
JOE BURROW: I told him he was a great player, he played really hard, and I was honored to go against him on the field.
Q. Andrew Luck style?
JOE BURROW: Yeah.
Q. They said there were 32,000 people here today, how many were LSU fans do you think?
JOE BURROW: Probably 25. That was a crazy thing to see. Usually I don't know in usual conference away games they usually don't give us that many tickets, so I don't know how they got them, but I was happy to see them show up. That was crazy.
Q. Marshall might be ought for a few weeks I guess, when he's on and off the field what is the difference for your offense?
JOE BURROW: Yeah, that's a tough one for us. He's having a really, really good start to the season. But I know he's going to shake back, he's going to come back as fast as he can, he's a super tough guy, he's going to come back when we need him and I know he's going to come back and keep performing the way he was. But I have faith in guys behind him, so we're going to have get them more reps, get them more comfortable.
Q. Late in the first half seemed seems like you might have gone kind of conservative and it ended up in a bad fumble there. What happened there?
JOE BURROW: I don't know. Just a play that can't happen. I'll take the blame for it. That's just a missed communication between me and Clyde. That's just something that can't happen ever.
Q. What did you see from the young running backs today?
JOE BURROW: I thought they played very well. John had a big blitz pick up, so I was really happy to see that, it resulted in a big play. That's kind of where they need to take their next step especially is identifying blitzes and identifying where they need to be so I was really happy that that was able to be put on film.
Q. What did you think of Baskerville and his plays in the second half there?
JOE BURROW: I told him he should have this two touchdowns he only had one. He got tackled like on the three yard line. A lot of our guys like getting tackled at the three, it seems like it happens two or three times a game.
Q. You cut him any slack, he's a linebacker.
JOE BURROW: He said he was a running back in high school. He talks about it all the time. You got to score on that one. I'll take the touchdown though.
Q. The run game was a lot better, Clyde's yard for carry. What did you see in the running game?
JOE BURROW: I think we executed fairly well, we still have to get better in that department as well as all aspects of our offense, but we're still averaging I don't know how many rushing yards a game, 120, 130, so we're still being effective in that area, but you always like to get better.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT