NBA FINALS: SPURS v HEAT
June 19, 2013
Shane Battier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  SHANE BATTIER:   We were in trouble.   We were in serious, serious trouble.   If you do the math of with the time on the clock, it took a miracle for us to win that game.   And the miracle occurred.   So we have a new lease.   It's one game.   It's one game.   That's all we wanted.   One game on our home floor, and we know we have to play our best game to win Game 7.   

Q.   Can you talk about all the missing garments I guess in Game 6.   Mike Miller's shoe, obviously the missing headband for LeBron.   Seemed like guys did better without.   
SHANE BATTIER:   I have been getting a lot of calls to take off my shirt from the ladies.   But I'm going to spare everybody the thrill and the excitement.   Maybe I'll make some more threes.   But that's not going to happen.   It's a family event.   I think the missing articles of clothing were very appropriate for yesterday's game, because it was that sort of weird game.   Unexplainable.   Missing clothes are all part of it.   

Q.   Two words that I guess Spo said are the most exciting in sports, "Game 7."   
SHANE BATTIER:   Yeah, you throw out the records.   You throw out what's happened the first six games of the series.   We're even with this team.   We're even.   The series, despite some of the scores, are very close in the third quarter, one‑or‑two‑possession games.   And the teams need a burst to separate themselves, except for last night.   
So this is as even a series as you'll find.   It's going to come down to execution and aggression.   

Q.   San Antonio won Game 1 and they thought they had Game 6.   How hard do you think getting Game 7 is going to be?   
SHANE BATTIER:   I don't know.   I don't know what their mindset is.   Frankly, it's not my concern.   All I'm concerned about is our mindset.   

Q.   Did you recognize LeBron without the headband?   
SHANE BATTIER:   I read a theory about that:   Maybe that's why he has success.   The Spurs had trouble finding him and recognizing him.   And they thought he was somebody else.   Maybe his cousin Larry.   Larry James.   So he was able to use a little stealth down the stretch.   





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT