NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PACERS v HEAT
May 27, 2013
Shane Battier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 when you've dominated a team in Game 4 like that?   
SHANE BATTIER:   I think in the end it all balances out.   We don't feel like we've put together a very good half outside the first half of Game 3 in this series.   So we're due to play a good half.   We feel we have some more good halves and more good games in us.   
   
 Q.   Shane, you said the other day that shooters have to keep shooting the ball.   It's the law of averages balances out.   Was last night the law of averages, that the shooters just go ahead and hit some shots?   
SHANE BATTIER:   The most important thing about our team is not really the end result.   It's the quality of shots that we get.   If we have good spacing and we move the ball, our shooters are going to make shots.   
So we look at what kind of shots we got.   Last night we got great shots.   As a result, we shot better.   
   
 Q.   Last night was 5‑0 on the road in the playoffs.   But each of those wins by double digits.   How do you explain that you play so well on the road?   
SHANE BATTIER:   The situations have been a little different.   Milwaukee we were trying to get‑‑ just trying to get them out of the picture.   Chicago, they bring out the best in us.   Especially off a loss, we were really motivated.   After Game 2 in Miami we were highly motivated.   
   
 Q.   How would you explain LeBron's evolution as a post player from what he was a couple of years ago?   
SHANE BATTIER:   I think he has more confidence.   He doesn't settle as much.   Before, I think in his younger years, he would settle for a lower‑percentage turn‑around jumper.   Now he has an array of moves down there.   
   
 Q.   When he dribbles it five or six times, how vulnerable is the defense?   
SHANE BATTIER:   Any time he gets deep in the paint he puts a lot of pressure on another team, and they have to make some decisions.   
   
 Q.   Udonis' effort last night.   He wasn't shooting well the first couple of games, not taking that many shots.   He goes out and hits eight of nine.   What did that do to spark the team early on?   
SHANE BATTIER:   He was great for us.   He really set the tone for us.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT