NHL DRAFT
June 26, 2009
Scott Glennie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   SCOTT GLENNIE: For sure, it's a great feeling, I couldn't be happier for him to go to the L.A. Kings and at the same time he's feeling the same way for me. He's a friend of mine and has been a pleasure to play with for the past two years. 

 Q. Did you have an inkling that Dallas was looking at you based on any meetings?
 SCOTT GLENNIE: You know what, I didn't even meet with Dallas hardly at all. But I couldn't be happier that they picked me. Right now it just a tremendous feeling and it's an honor to be drafted by the Dallas Stars.

 Q. Talk about your season because when you came in, it seemed like you were the guy benefitting off Brayden Schenn but you obviously proved differently. 
 SCOTT GLENNIE: That's what people are saying about me a little bit but this year I definitely proved a lot of people wrong and that's why I was drafted eighth overall.

 Q. Who did you pattern yourself off of? 
 SCOTT GLENNIE: More of a Jeff Carter type of player. He's got a good shot coming off the wing and has a good snap and uses his body to his advantage to lean into guys, and definitely a pretty intelligent player in the National Hockey League.

 Q. Matt Calvert will be pretty thrilled for you guys tonight. 
 SCOTT GLENNIE: He's a great friend of mine and doesn't get enough credit. He's a great player and he's definitely going to be calling me right now to wish me luck. 

 Q. What does it mean to you to be coming to a hot location?
 SCOTT GLENNIE: That definitely makes me a little happy going from minus 40 to plus 40 weather, every year back and forth, it's a great feeling to get some of the similar weather all year.

 Q. Is there anybody who you looked up to playing and now what does it mean to you be playing with a guy such as Mike Modano? 
 SCOTT GLENNIE: It's almost a surreal feeling to be playing with guys like that. You grew up watching them and they are tremendous hockey players, and I think that a lot of hard work and determination is going to get me hopefully playing with those guys pretty quickly. 

 Q. Guys from Manitoba will be going to be in Dallas next year, do you follow the team and what is it like looking at them as your teammates? 
 SCOTT GLENNIE: It's weird. It's going to take a while to get used to it but at the same time it's a tremendous feeling to go down there and be putting in the same uniform as those guys and playing in Dallas, it's going to be great. 

 Q. Inaudible. 
 SCOTT GLENNIE: The wheat Kings have only been good to me since I've been there. It's a great organization and it's going to be great for the city and fans to be hosting the Memorial Cup. And as a team I think we have to be looking at winning that and next year is going to be a great year for me and the rest of my teammates and fans.

 Q. What would you say about your style of play that would make the Stars pick you at No. 8?
 SCOTT GLENNIE: Probably they think I'm a pure goal scorer and maybe they think that's what they need right now and I'm going to fit pretty well in that role up in Dallas. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT