FIELDS OPEN IN HAWAII
February 21, 2008
Liz Janangelo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DANA GROSS-RHODE:  We have 2008 LPGA Tour Rookie, with us, Liz Janangelo.  Liz, this is your first year as an LPGA Tour member.  You've played in events before.  What's the difference now, your second event as a member versus your events last year when you were playing on a sponsor's exemption? 
 LIZ JANANGELO:  Well, I guess I feel -- I've never -- well, I (indiscernible) for the first three tournaments, and lucky to have someone with that much experience helping me out.  I never felt as much -- I really feel like I belong now, and to have gone through Future's Tour and finished 6th and have gotten through Q-School, I feel really ready. 
 It was a tough tough, long loop, but to be here and feel like I belong, that makes you want to go out and shoot good numbers. 
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  We'll get started.  Let's go over your scorecard, starting on No. 12. 
 LIZ JANANGELO:  I have no idea.  I hit -- I think it's -- I think I hit a 19-degree rescue. 
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Okay.  15. 
 LIZ JANANGELO:  15 I had 99 yards in and then I hit a -- it was into the wind, so I hit a little tiny pitching wedge to 12 feet. 
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Okay.  Bogey on 16. 
 LIZ JANANGELO:  16, I hit a shot with my 16-degree rescue right of the -- like actually so far to the right it was a terrible swing.  But hit a good shot up and missed the putt.  Gave myself an opportunity to make par with like a 6-footer. 
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Okay.  No. 1. 
 LIZ JANANGELO:  First hole, I had -- I don't know, sorry. 
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  We'll come back to that. 
 LIZ JANANGELO:  6, I had a little 9-iron.  It was in between, and then I had like a 4-footer. 
 And then 7 -- sorry, to do this.  6 I had like a 10-footer and 7 I had a 4-footer. 
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Okay.  Questions for Liz. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 LIZ JANANGELO:  Yes.  Unfortunately, I didn't birdie No. 5.  I had 44 yards in, which is normally -- that's my favorite shot, so it's disappointing to not get that up and down. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 LIZ JANANGELO:  No.  There was really no disappointing shots.  I felt like I hit it really well on the course, and I wasn't really striking too well.  So to go out and shoot a good number, it was good, enjoyable, and a fun time.  Nothing too spectacular.  No up and downs that were out of the ordinary.  Hit most the greens. 
 I guess it was kind of a boring 68, unfortunately.  But I'll take two more boring 68s. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 LIZ JANANGELO:  I know.  I can't believe how quickly they were moving.  I would assume they all played very well to move that quickly.  We were running between shots and just wanted to keep up because we didn't want to get on the clock. 
 It's early on the season and we don't want to be on the clock seven or eight times. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 LIZ JANANGELO:  In the off-season I spent all my time at West Bay Club in Naples, Florida and just got ready there.  I took about a month off prior to that and just went down and got ready. 
 I had my coach come down for a couple days.  The off-season wasn't too eventful.  Went on a couple trips.  Went to New York city and Boston, but then I started to grind. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 LIZ JANANGELO:  My goal for the year is just to put myself in contention.  Chances are you're going to mess up a few times before you actually win.  To just give myself an opportunity to do so, that's my goal. 
 There are a lot of great rookies out here, and I would be crazy to say I didn't want to be rookie of the year.  There's just so much talent all around the world. 
 It's nice to represent my country and try to be rookie of the year. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 LIZ JANANGELO:  Yeah, absolutely.  Actually, it wasn't the most nerve-wracking thing ever in my entire life was having to make a birdie on the last hole of Q-School.  So nothing can top that.  This is a piece of cake in comparison to that. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 LIZ JANANGELO:  No.  Week two, well, I just played well.  I've worked hard my whole life, and I played in a lot LPGA events, like you mentioned, to be a rookie but to already have a lot under my belt.  And with Worth helping me, I mean, it's all the tools necessary to be successful. 
 We'll see.  It's still only round one; anything can happen. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 LIZ JANANGELO:  I would love to.  We were teammates in the Curtis Cup and roommates and shared bedtime stories for Curtis Cup.  We're great friends, and over the years I think we have both been very supportive and helpful to one another. 
 We actually stayed together in the same housing in Newport with close family friends of mine.  Yeah, I'd love it.  I love the crowds. 
 This is what golf is all about:  Go out and entertain and have a good time.  There's no better opportunity than to do that and to be paired with Michelle Wie. 
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Good luck tomorrow, Liz. 
 LIZ JANANGELO:  Thank you. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT