THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 19, 1995
Paul Kilderry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 GREG SHARKO:  Paul's first career top 10 win.  Questions for
Paul.

 Q.  Yesterday you were saying that you were hoping it was
going to be a bit windy out there and that could possibly affect
his serves.  What are your comments?

 PAUL KILDERRY:  It was quite windy.  I don't think it wasn't
nearly windy as yesterday when we were playing, but it was a little
bit of wind around.  I think that was his first outdoor match,
maybe for the year -- besides --  since the Australian Open, maybe,
been doing very well indoors, and I had four matches under my
belt coming into the match.  So that was definitely an advantage,
but it wasn't as windy as I had thought it may be.  But I am not
complaining.

 Q.  Paul, Todd Woodbridge yesterday, Philippoussis today.
 Should the Americans take a longer look at Australia tennis?

 PAUL KILDERRY:  All the Aussie boys are working as hard as everyone
else, but maybe it is starting to turnaround a little.  There
is -- past few years has been a lot of questions asked why aren't
Australian tennis players producing results like we used to, and
there is really no answer.  Everyone is working hard and we got
good coaches.  We got all the -- technology and stuff everyone
else has, but, you know, it is just hard work will eventually
win over and maybe it is starting to do that.

 Q.  How did you start with tennis; a little bit of your background?

 PAUL KILDERRY:  My father was a player.  He played in western
Australia.  He was the No. 1 player there for quite a few years
and he has been coaching, I think, for 35 years.  And he introduced
me to the game when I was about -- as soon as I could walk; put
a racket in my hand and I actually started playing tennis when
I was 17 months old and on my third birthday I hit my first over
serve in the court from the back of the court and I played my
first tournament at 4.

 Q.  Did you win?

 PAUL KILDERRY:  I lost 9-Love and I walked off the court and
asked my mom if I won or not.

 Q.  Is that the under five championship?

 PAUL KILDERRY:  That was the under 12, actually.

 Q.  When she told you lost, what was your reaction?

 PAUL KILDERRY:  I think I was stunned.  To be honest, I don't
even remember playing my first tournament and I actually have
a photo at home shaking hands and I wasn't as tall as the net.


 Q.  And the net is still high?

 PAUL KILDERRY:  Shut-up.

 Q.  This is like five matches now and in less than a week.
 Do you start to feel a little bit fatigued?

 PAUL KILDERRY:  Not really.  It is a big tournament.  There is
a lot of momentum.  There is a lot at stake, so and there are
good crowds here, once you get out on the court.  Maybe before
the match or the night before, you feel a little bit fatigued,
but every match for me here is a great opportunity, so if I can't
get inside to play here well, I am in as good an atmosphere, so
it is no problem getting excited.

 Q.  You train in Florida quite a bit, don't you must feel
almost at home?

 PAUL KILDERRY:  Yeah, I actually lived in Florida for six years
and I trained at Nick Bollettieri Tennis Academy.  I don't live
here anymore, but the conditions -- Florida conditions are very
familiar for me and I enjoy coming to Florida.  I have got a lot
of friends here, so it is great.

 Q.  Where do you live now?

 PAUL KILDERRY:  I live in Perth, Western Australia.

 Q.  Do you and your fellow Australians sort of hang out together
at tournaments, I mean--

 PAUL KILDERRY:  Yeah, the Australian group, I guess you can call
it, very close knit group.  We pretty much eat together every
night and practice together and hang out together and get on each
other's case all the time, so we are very -- all Australia players
are very close.

 Q.  How many?

 PAUL KILDERRY:  It varies, tournament to tournament.

 Q.  At this one?

 PAUL KILDERRY:  I couldn't give you exact number, but at least
say 10.  And there is coaches around and fitness trainer.  I have
got my fitness trainer here with me.  Everyone is very friendly,
supporting each other.

 Q.  Why do you think that is sustained itself over the years,
everybody used to be close depending what country you were from
and as the money got bigger people went their own way, but the
Aussies seem to stay together; why do you think?

 PAUL KILDERRY:  I don't really know the answer though that. 
Maybe it's got something to do because we are a very isolated
country and we are a long way from home and the support for each
other, obviously, does a lot for our games and other than that,
I am not really sure.  Maybe it is sort of our laid back attitudes;
a lot of the time and we are -- I don't feel threatened or I don't
feel like I am competing really against the other Australia players
and I guess they have the same attitude.

 Q.  Anything else for Paul?

 PAUL KILDERRY:  Thank you.

 End of FastScripts....            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT