AL DIVISION SERIES: TWINS VS YANKEES
October 6, 2019
Edwin Encarnacion
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Edwin, when you got traded here, is this what you had in mind, being in the middle of a lineup in the postseason and being as productive as you're being through the first two games of the series?
EDWIN ENCARNACION: I was really happy when I was traded to the Yankees, a team that's always competing, so much history. Just to be part of the lineup, I wasn't thinking about where I was going to land in the lineup, but just being happy that I was being traded to a team that's highly competitive like the Yankees.
Q. Being traded to the Yankees and understanding that it's a team full of young players, with your experience, were you able to communicate any of that understanding with the teammates and the possibilities of the team?
EDWIN ENCARNACION: I think everybody has been key to the team, to the success of the team. Everybody has come up and contributed somehow, and I think it has been key to propel the team to actually where it is today and the success throughout the regular season.
Q. Edwin, how important and how good is it for the Yankees to get Severino back and pitching like he's capable of?
EDWIN ENCARNACION: Very happy. He's another -- he's one of those key pieces of the team, and we feel confident that he's going to go out there and do his job for us tomorrow.
Q. Edwin, they want you to chase that bad breaking ball, but you won't do it. Have you gotten better and better in that area of making them throw you a strike?
EDWIN ENCARNACION: Staying aggressive. I'm looking for a fastball that's a pitch I can hit, and I can manage. You know, I swung at a couple breaking balls, as well, but I've been able to recognize those pitches and lay off most of them.
Q. You faced Severino a bunch over the years. What makes him so difficult?
EDWIN ENCARNACION: Overall, his stuff, he's able to command pitches outside, inside, and I think his breaking pitch is probably one of the best in the game.
Q. Edwin, you didn't get to see this lineup whole all year long. Now that it's done what it's done for two games now, what do you think?
EDWIN ENCARNACION: Yeah, definitely one of the better lineups I've ever seen. 1 through 9, it's impressive. And it has to be fun for the fans to see the full lineup. We finally have the full lineup. Like I said, 1 through 9, any way they can do damage. So impressive and fun for the fans.
Q. You had a weekend here where you hit five in three games, supposedly when the ball wasn't carrying here. You've liked this place from the start, I'd say, huh?
EDWIN ENCARNACION: Yeah, that's true. I believe it was when the stadium -- when we opened the stadium here around that time, and I don't know, I just see the ball well here, and I just enjoy hitting here.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT