AL WILDCARD GAME: ORIOLES VS BLUE JAYS
October 4, 2016
Ezequiel Carrera
Edwin Encarnacion
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Toronto  5 - Baltimore 2   
 Q.  Edwin, I'm asking him about the situation of the last at-bat against Ubaldo and how he's feeling about the whole thing today.  
EDWIN ENCARNACION: I was looking for a pitch.  I was looking for a fastball, and I was trying to put the barrel on it, get a little bit in front because the infield was playing in, and I actually got it.   
 Q.  Edwin, you saw Jose have a great moment like that against Texas in Game 5.  What was it like for you?  The instant you hit the ball, obviously it was gone, your arms were in the air.  What was that moment like for you as a career highlight?  
EDWIN ENCARNACION: I thank God to give me that opportunity to have.  It was a very special moment and a very special opportunity for me to get it.  Thank God I did the job, and it worked out for us pretty well.   
 Q.  It was obviously a close game, low-scoring game.  Just the emotions of the whole evening.  
EZEQUIEL CARRERA: Like Edwin said, there was no tomorrow.  So we knew we needed to win this game.  It was something pretty special.  We knew we needed to give it everything we've got, and thank God everything worked out for us.   
 Q.  What was it like watching his ball leave the ballpark, knowing you were moving on?  
EDWIN ENCARNACION: I was really happy mostly because it was an extra-inning game.  It was just a very special moment for us, and it was just nice to see the ball leave the ballpark.   
 Q.  This is for both Edwin and Ezekiel:  You're going to play the Texas Rangers.  As Jose Bautista said, there's a lot of history between these two teams.  What are you expecting in that series?  Are you expecting a little bit more than what we saw in Texas?  
EZEQUIEL CARRERA: It's going to be a very interesting series.  They're going to give their 100 percent.  We're going to give our 100 percent.  But we trust ourself.  We trust our team.  It's going to be a very interesting series, and we're looking forward to it.   
EDWIN ENCARNACION: We're just going out there and trying to win.  What happened happens.  We're not going to worry about what happened before during the season.  We're just going out there and trying to win games, and we're just going to concentrate on what we can do and not whatever those guys can do.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT