NBA DRAFT 2019
June 20, 2019
Sekou Doumbouya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Can you just describe or summarize how your experience has gone tonight so far.
SEKOU DOUMBOUYA: Great experience.  I'm just happy.
Q. We just saw in the Finals a team like the Raptors, very international team.  Did the pipeline of international players inspire you at all growing up, have a big impact on you?
SEKOU DOUMBOUYA: Yeah, everybody.  Siakam, Ibaka.  Everybody.  It's a big inspiration for the African people, African players.  Yeah, I'm proud of that.
Q. You kind of fit the mold of that modern two-way forward.  You've been compared to Pascal Siakam.  If there's a skill, particularly offensively, that you see yourself really trying to work on into your rookie year and as you get into your career that you want to kind of master, what would that be?
SEKOU DOUMBOUYA: Yeah, I'm agreeing with that.  I feel like I play like Siakam.  I just got to work right now.  Prove to myself, to the team, what I can do.  Do my best on the floor.
Q. What do you think will be one of the biggest challenges as you start adjusting to the NBA lifestyle?
SEKOU DOUMBOUYA: I think it's going to be the schedule.  In the NBA, they travel a lot.  They take airplanes like every day.  I think that's going to be the biggest adjustment for me.
Q. In one word, how would you describe this whole New York experience this week?
SEKOU DOUMBOUYA: Fantastic (smiling).
Q. Being drafted tonight, what do you think it means for the other kids in your country right now looking up to you?
SEKOU DOUMBOUYA: I think they're proud of me.  My cousins, my family out there, my dad, too.  Everybody.  Parents.  The country is proud of me.
Q. Is there any NBA player that you're looking forward to playing with or against this year in your rookie season?
SEKOU DOUMBOUYA: Everybody (laughter).
Q. What advantages do you feel like you've had in playing overseas?  How do you think that will help you in your NBA career?
SEKOU DOUMBOUYA: I'm a pro right now.  I'm a pro since three years in France.  I learn a lot about other players, other grown men.  I know what life is of a basketball pro player.  I know everything right now.  I just got to work.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT