SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 1, 2017
Jimmy Dykes
Bailey Zimmerman
Jessica Jackson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Florida - 71, Arkansas - 61
THE MODERATOR: We are joined by Arkansas.
Coach, if you would start us out with an opening statement, please.
COACH DYKES: Well, very proud of, again, it's the same song, verse 28 in our year, just how hard we fight, but not quite enough to win a ballgame.
I thought we did a lot of good things.  We got off 15 more shots than they did.  We shot 72 times, they shot 57 times.  We just didn't make enough of ours.
Free-throw line was the difference.  Four points from the free-throw line, they got 19.
They are one of the better, if not the best, offensive rebounding team in our league.  They kind of punished us on the boards today, too, as well.
Very proud of our fight.  Jess, being a senior, continued to fight.  I think all of our young ladies fought hard.  We've never not fought hard.  We've always hung in there.
Had a chance in the fourth quarter.  We cut it.  You go back and look at that game, two or three shots that could have gone down for us, they didn't.  A couple, three went down for them.  Ends up a 10-point game.
Disappointed in our record, not disappointed at all in our fight and toughness and our togetherness.
We talked about it in the locker room afterwards:  As a family, when you get beat like we have the last five or six weeks, your character gets tested.
This isn't the only time in life you're going to get knocked down.  We talked about that.  We will all be better people, better coaches, everything, better student-athletes, better young ladies going forward because of it.
I do feel that in all my heart.
THE MODERATOR: Questions for the student-athletes.
Q. Bailey, talk about your comeback in the first half, how you tied it up at halftime.  What was the difference between the first and second half?
BAILEY ZIMMERMAN: Everybody on my team was positive.  They were just like, Keep playing through, even though I got hit in the eye and scratched.
I just want to play hard for Jess and Cooley, since I knew it was their last year.  Our season hasn't been going really great, but I wanted to play hard for them.
Q. Jessica, you've had a stellar career.  You're the only senior starter.  Talk about what you hope them to learn from you, and what have you learned from them?
JESSICA JACKSON: I learned a lot from them.  First off, they always fight.  They never stop fighting every game.  Especially Bailey, she's one of our toughest players we have.  Like, she'll get knocked down and come right back in a game.  Each one of my teammates, we fight really hard.
I guess what they could learn from me is, I guess, being vocal.  Yeah, being vocal.  And being a team player and stuff.
Q. And the leadership?
JESSICA JACKSON: Yeah, Bailey is going to be an upperclassman.  You have the other one.  I think I made a good example of leadership.  I'm pretty sure they're going to handle the role pretty good.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT