U.S. OPEN
September 6, 1994
Javier Frana
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  You've played a couple five-set matches this tournament, does that take a toll on you, wear you out for the match at all? 
 
JAVIER FRANA:  Obviously, when you have long matches or tough matches, then, you need more time to recover, but I think today that was not the point.  I think he was playing the match better, he was playing so fast for me and I think that was the point.  In the beginning, I think he start playing so well, so solid, so fast and I didn't. I think that was the main point.  
 

Q.  Do you prepare differently for coming into a Grand Slam when the matches are three out of five? 
 
JAVIER FRANA:  Well, normally you start, like, training more, more time on the court.  I tried to stay -- practice like a little more maybe, maybe once or twice, but longer time, just to get used to.  Because normally, three-set match would be more than two hours, two hours 20 minutes and here at least maybe you have two and a half hours at least.  So, it could be maybe four, so you need more training, you get used to being on the court long time, so you concentrate.  You can concentrate also all the period of the match.  
 

Q.  Are you -- is it more of a mental thing to get yourself -- 
 
JAVIER FRANA:  I think it's both, because you have to first-- maybe you have to run and play maybe double time, I mean, it's-- sometimes, for example, played almost four hours, which is a lot, and those matches, also you have to stay in the match, your mind has to be there.  So you need more preparation for that.  You need to get used to it.  Sometimes, that's why it's tough when you're younger and you start playing Grand Slams, because you have to stay -- mentally, you have to stay three, four hours and when you start getting tired, that's when you start losing concentration.  
 

Q.  Can you compare playing a third set in a two out of three set match when it goes into the third set, comparing that to a three out of five set match when it goes into the fifth set; is there a difference, does it feel different? 
 
JAVIER FRANA:  The situation, it's the same because if you are a breakpoint down or up, it's -- you don't have more chances to maybe come back on the match.  So if you're losing your game or you are missing few chances, so, it's dangerous because it is not the same that happened in the second or the first.  But, it's the same situation when you play five or three.  But the point is that maybe in three-set match, they both are in perfect condition to keep playing.  So that's not one of the points, to beat the other guy, so you have to play better or your tactics are better than your opponent.  And sometimes in the fifth set, you start see that your opponent is getting tired or he's not strong as he used to be in the beginning.  So, there's more things that are counting.  
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT