U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 22, 2016
Noah Goodwin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Noah, how exciting is it to be in the semifinal?
NOAH GOODWIN: I'm so excited.  I'm pumped.  I've been playing good all week and I just want to continue to just play my game, which I feel like I can.
Q. Still making a lot of birdies today.  What is it about this course that you can make so many birdies?
NOAH GOODWIN: I just feel like I give myself great opportunities with my wedges on a lot of holes.  I have about seven where I know if I hit this club off the tee box and I hit it well, I'm going to have a really, really good yardage for me.
I just feel like it makes me really comfortable out here.
Q. You jumped on him early and took the lead.  Why were you able to do that?
NOAH GOODWIN: Partly because of my wedges.  I was hitting the ball really close.  Hit a good shot in on 1 and just lipped out, just missed my putt for birdie.
I was able to birdie 2.
Holed 4.  He kind of gave me that one with a 3-putt.
On hole 5 I hit really, really good 6-iron that came back off the slope to about five or six feet.
Then I was able to make a putt on 6 for birdie.
Q. How far was the putt on 6?
NOAH GOODWIN: 6 was about eight feet or so.  I haven't really made any long putts for birdie this week.  They've all been inside ten feet.  I think my longest one this entire week was a 20-footer for birdie.
Q. You also made birdie on the par-5, 11, to win that hole.
NOAH GOODWIN: Yes, I hit -- stripped a drive right down the middle and I hit an awful 3-wood.  Kind of just a low blade into the rough left.  I had a really good yardage out of there, about 100 yards, which is a full 58-degree, and I was able to stick it about six feet and put some pressure on him and I was able to make that putt.
Q. Let's talk about your swing coach, Cameron McCormick.  What have you learned from a to him and how is that process going?
NOAH GOODWIN: He's helped me a lot with my mental game.  I used to be very negative on myself and very hard on myself, just kind of beating myself up whenever I failed.  He's really helped me with that side of it.
Also, just all of the things he's taught me with my swing.  I understand my swing better now than ever before.  To know if I mishit a shot, basically what I did and why I do it, I think that's so valuable, especially on 36 holes a day.  It's whenever you're getting tired and everything and old habits start it creep in.
Q. When you see that he works with the U.S.  Open champion Jordan Spieth, does that give you more confidence in what he's telling you?
NOAH GOODWIN: He's the best.  That's all I can say.  I trust everything with my golf game to him because he's the best.  I know he's never going to steer me wrong.
Q. How long have you been working with him?
NOAH GOODWIN: I start with Cameron in August of 2014.
Q. Appreciate your time.  Good luck.
NOAH GOODWIN: Thank you, sir.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT