U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 22, 2016
Noah Goodwin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You've gotten to round of 16 in this before; you've played in the U.S. Amateur and got to match play, but what is this moment like to get in the final?  
NOAH GOODWIN: Absolutely incredible.  I've been thinking about it ever since the Amateur last year.   
Everything I've been grinding towards every single day, it's been to the get to the finals here this week.   
Just to accomplish that goal itself is huge for me.   
 Q.  Despite John's troubles on the 20th hole, talk about the second shot with the 4-iron.  
NOAH GOODWIN: Well, I figured since he had got out of absolutely death on the very first playoff hole that I had to make something happen.  I haven't really played this hole too well all week.  I've made a couple of birdies, but I've always been hitting very poor shoots into the green to leave myself just short.   
Hit a great shot in in the second round and I flew it way long, but to finally get the number, especially in a moment with as much pressure as there was, means a lot.   
 Q.  Tight match all the way.  Then on 15 was a key moment.  He had that 5-iron from 196 in there tight.  Almost holed it.  Then you make the 20-footer.  How did you read that putt, because that wasn't an easy putt?  
NOAH GOODWIN: No.  It was mostly just play it out left; just get it to a certain point.  We knew it would take a fall line.  As soon as it left the putter face I knew it was going to be really, really good.   
The thing is if I didn't hit the hole I don't think I really could have stopped that putt too well.  Just kind of played it out there and just kind of hit and hope.   
 Q.  Did you think that was a big moment when you made that?  
NOAH GOODWIN: I thought it was a big momentum swing for me in my direction.  He had been kind of controlling the last few holes and kind of missed some birdie putts out there, so I felt like that was a big swing for me.   
 Q.  What was your reaction mentally when he dropped the 30-footer on the next hole?  
NOAH GOODWIN: I knew he had been missing a lot of putts barely and I knew he was due for one.  I also knew in match play anything can happen, and that's when stuff like that tends to happen.   
So I tried -- I wasn't very shocked by it actually happening.  I just had to accept it and move on to the next hole.   
 Q.  Then on the first extra hole had a chance to end it, and probably one or two revolutions short, that putt.  Did you think you made it when you hit it?  
NOAH GOODWIN: I thought I left it a little bit low, but I thought no way I left it short.  I hit putts from there in the practice round.  You couldn't stop it at all.   
So I guess a little bit with the greens being slower throughout the day and everything just caused it to come up short.   
 Q.  Have you played in 36-hole finals before?  
NOAH GOODWIN: I have not.  This will be my first one.   
 Q.  Obviously played 36 in one day, but how much different do you think it will be playing just one match as opposed to two?  
NOAH GOODWIN: Well, it will be completely different.  You have to stay committed to the match the entire time and stay patient with it.  Philip proved last year you can come down from big leads or you can lose big leads.  You just have to take one shot at a time, one hole at a time.   
 Q.  Was that something you watched on TV last year, the comeback?  
NOAH GOODWIN: 100%.  It was awesome.   
 Q.  What did you learn from watching Philip come back?  
NOAH GOODWIN: Take one shot at time and it's not over until the final putt drops.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT