U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 15, 2018
Noah Goodwin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Your first match play win ever at the U.S. Amateur, and this is your fourth U.S. Amateur, so that has to feel pretty good.  
NOAH GOODWIN: Yes, sir, it was a great feeling finally getting one under the belt.  Just gives me a little bit more confidence going throughout the week.   
 Q.  You've had some history where you've had some leads and you weren't quite able to finish off your opponent in the first round before.  Was any of that entering your mind as you were up on the back side today?  
NOAH GOODWIN: I tried not to let it.  At the end of the day, each match is just a new day, and you kind of have to approach it like that.  Certainly having all the history of match play under my belt at the U.S. Am and the U.S. Juniors helped me out a little bit, so I just tried to draw on the confidence of I find match play a little bit more comfortable.   
 Q.  You talked about how the wind came up today, and obviously you play in the wind in Texas; how did that bear on you today?  
NOAH GOODWIN: It just made it feel like home a little bit.  Whenever it gets windy, I know that I'm able to flight it the distances I need to and that I still have the distance control I need to, so even though it starts playing a little bit harder, I still have the ability to just continue to play the same golf, which just helps you continue to be steady out there, which in match play is all you really need to do.   
 Q.  You got up on him on the fifth hole, the par-5, with a birdie.  How did you do that?  
NOAH GOODWIN: I hit a great shot in there.  That's when the wind really started blowing.  It was straight downwind to a front pin.  I landed it just on the very front edge of the green and got it to stop.  Had about five feet in there.  Ended up getting the putt conceded.  Just hit a great shot in there and was able to put some pressure on him.   
 Q.  What club did you hit in there?  
NOAH GOODWIN: 8-iron.   
 Q.  Every time he seemed to get back in the match, you had an answer, and then on the back side, you won three of the first four holes on the back.  Tell me how you did that.  
NOAH GOODWIN: Just got a little bit more comfortable.  On 9 he made a great birdie putt straight down the hill on a really tough hole, so after that, I kind of knew that I just needed to step up my game a little bit more.  Got kind of a good break on 10.  He didn't hit the best of drives, and I was able to get out of it with a par and win the hole.  After that, I just knew that I needed to put the foot down.   
 Q.  And then you birdied 12, the par-3?  
NOAH GOODWIN: Yeah, I made -- probably wouldn't have made a birdie very many times.  I made a really long putt.  It was probably about 40 feet or so.  But that one -- that's whenever I really started to get comfortable, that's whenever I kind of knew everything was in the right place, and I just needed to, like I said, just keep the foot down and not really let up.   
 Q.  And then you closed out the match on the par-5, the 14th?  
NOAH GOODWIN: I hit -- that hole was playing tough with the back pin, playing straight into the wind.  I knew that I'd been swinging the ball a lot today with the wind, and I knew if I landed something at the hole that wasn't flighted, it was just going to rip off the green.  So I hit a 50 degree from like 90 yards, just trying to flight it in there.  It took once bounce and stopped like three feet from the hole.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT