U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2018
Noah Goodwin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Probably not the finish you wanted with the two bogeys, but still, a good subpar score today.  A good place on the leaderboard for tomorrow's match play.  Give me your assessment.  
NOAH GOODWIN: Game feels like it's in a really good place right now.  At the end of the day, the goal is just to make it to match play, so I was able to accomplish that.   
Figuring putting everything together with my game so it starts peaking at the right time for match play, so really happy with where I'm at.  Everything feels good, which is all I can ask for going into this week.   
 Q.  What do you think of Pebble Beach as a match play golf course?  
NOAH GOODWIN: I think it's a phenomenal match play golf course.  The stretch of holes around 3 through 9, just the amount of different tee boxes and how they can change the holes just to make it so much different and make it exciting, I think it's incredible.   
It's a golf course where because of how small the greens are you can really put a lot of pressure on your opponent just by hitting good shots in there and hitting a lot of greens.   
I think it will be a really fun week and a lot of exciting matches.   
 Q.  Is your preparation going the way you would like?  You said your game is in a good place.  Are you getting to a point where you're like, Hey, this is feeling good for me?  
NOAH GOODWIN: Yeah, I do.  I mean, big thing for me in match play is just making sure putting feels good.  I'm really comfortable on these greens, which is a huge thing going into match play since making a lot of the putts is just a huge momentum swing.   
I love the layout of this golf course, so I'm really comfortable out there.  Just helps my full swing kind of get dialed in a little bit more being comfortable.   
But, yeah, everything in my game is trending in the direction I want.   
 Q.  Speaking of comfort, you've won the Junior; you've played in the U.S. Open.  How does that bring more comfort that you've got the experience, like the USGA chops to be able to withstand what you're going to have to go through at the Amateur?  
NOAH GOODWIN: Yeah, the U.S. Junior, going to the finals for two years is definitely a huge help; understanding the physical and mental and emotional toll that you go through throughout the week to get to the finals.  Having that under my belt will definitely be something that can help me a lot.   
And also, just being able -- having played in this tournament, kind of having a better understanding of what the USGA likes to do with golf courses, especially when it gets into match play.  I think that will give my a little bit of an advantage and some help, just being able to kind of think ahead and use my past experience to see what they might want to do with the golf course this week.   
 Q.  Does your success in match play make you like match play more?  
NOAH GOODWIN: I've always liked match play more.   
 Q.  Oh, okay.  
NOAH GOODWIN: I enjoy the head-to-head aspect and how you play your opponent and how it's a lot more mental.  It's a very adaptable way to play golf.  I love all those aspects of it.   
So, yeah, I mean, I was already comfortable in match play, but definitely having played so much of it through the U.S. Junior and going through those finals, it just makes me so much more comfortable.   
 Q.  So now the other piece of it is you've got a morning start today; a little bit more extra rest so you can go into tomorrow's first match probably feeling pretty good about where you stand being able to face the player you're playing, play your game, and still be physically ready probably.  
NOAH GOODWIN: Yeah, it will be really nice this afternoon.  I'll be able to kind of go through my game plan with my caddie of what I want to do in match play, how I kind of want to play the holes out there and what I want to do.   
So I'll have plenty of time to do that and any last-minute practice I want to do.  It will be good to be well-rested tomorrow and just ready to go.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT