U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 21, 2017
Noah Goodwin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You got an early lead on him.  You were 3-up after eight holes.  
NOAH GOODWIN: Mm-hmm.   
 Q.  What kind of pressure did that put on him?  
NOAH GOODWIN: I couldn't really tell.  He handled it well the entire time.  I played really good for the first couple of holes.  I hit it to a foot on 1, I hit it to a foot on 2, then I got a couple of bad breaks in there.  I had a spike mark right in my line on 3, hit it, bounced out.  If it wasn't there, it would have been right in.  I got another one on 9.  He ended up winning that hole.  And then I just had a couple of silly mistakes in there.  Like on 10 I knew I should have just hit a hard 50-degree, and I tried to take off a pitching wedge, and I took too much off and it flew short into the water.  I was still able to save bogey after I made a 20-footer for it to put the pressure back on him, but he made par anyway.  So I just kind of have to clean up those little mistakes so I don't really give him that leeway whenever I got off to a hot start.   
 Q.  Even when he got back into it, you had an answer.  You birdied 11 when he cut it to one.  
NOAH GOODWIN: Yeah, I hit a really good drive down there and kind of got a bad break on the 2-iron.  It was starting to draw with the wind, and then the wind kind of swirled and shifted, and it cut right into the bunker.  I was able to hit it up to six feet and make it.  And then one of the real kind of solid points of the round was the next hole actually I left a 7-iron just short in the rough, and I hit what I thought was the right chip shot out of the rough, but it kind of caught in a weird way and rolled up and it rolled back down off the green, and I was able to chip that one in for par on 12, and he missed his birdie putt, so I didn't lose any ground there, and I gained a lot of momentum.  And I actually birdied the next hole to get it back to 3-up, and that kind of kept things going.   
 Q.  But he didn't still go away; he birdied 15.  
NOAH GOODWIN: He made a great putt on 15.  I had a feeling he was going to make it.  He had been just missing all day.  We both had.  On 16 I hit a horrible 3-wood off the tee, kind of salvaged a bogey.  And then on 17, I had made a four-footer for par to halve the hole after he had lipped out, and then on 18, 18 was really like the solid point for me, gives me a lot of confidence going into the next round.  I took a really aggressive line with my driver, and I pulled it off.  I had less than 200 yards into the green.  I was able to hit a 5-iron up there to 18 feet, and I just lagged it up there near the hole.   
 Q.  We talked yesterday about how it seems like you're getting better as the week goes along.  Do you still feel that way?  
NOAH GOODWIN: Today I felt like my game was there a lot.  It was kind of hard to tell.  I made a little more silly mistakes than I would have liked, but again, I just have to clean that up, and I'm getting better with each day.  Yeah, so whenever I needed to hit the shots, especially like 18, 11, holes like that, I was hitting those shots.  So that gives me a lot of confidence.  My swing is right where it needs to be, where I want it to be.  I only really mis-hit two shots probably today, and one of them was that 3-wood.  So I'm hitting the shots, and I just have to keep rolling on.  Davis I figured was probably going to be one of my hardest matches this week because our games are really similar.  We both -- if we hit it off line we're both going to scramble and find a way, and we both can make a lot of birdies out there.  Just got to keep going.   
 Q.  What's it going to mean to you to get back to a final again?  
NOAH GOODWIN: It would mean the world to me.  Not only -- more just that I know I can do it again, but to actually follow it up and do it again and just to give myself an opportunity, just a second chance, that would just mean a lot.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT