U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2017
Noah Goodwin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
NOAH GOODWIN: Definitely played a lot more of my game today in Match Play and this afternoon.  Just still making some silly mistakes out there that I'm not really used to making.  I'm just playing below my skill level.  Not committing to shots and not backing off of putts whenever I feel uncomfortable.  Just little stupid things that are easy fixes.   
But besides that, my swing feels great.  I hit a lot of great shots in this afternoon match.  Just everything's kind of more on a string now, and it's getting better and better with every hole.  So looking forward to the rest of the week.   
 Q.  Why do you think you're getting better as the week progresses?  
NOAH GOODWIN: I just think part of it is peeking at the right time.  A little bit of stroke play.  It's just about kind of figuring things out, just making it to Match Play.  Then I have made a lot of poor mistakes in my first match and a couple in my 32 match.   
So a lot of that is being corrected, so I'm starting to play better because of that.  Also my swing's just getting tighter with more and more reps as the week goes on.   
 Q.  Do you think you have a mental advantage over maybe the others that are making the quarter finals since you've been through all of this before?  
NOAH GOODWIN: I would say a little bit, yes, I know what to expect.  I know how hard it is.  I know it's just going to get harder mentally.  I know the things that you have to do to prepare for that and get ready for it.  I would say a little bit, yes, just because it's familiar to me.   
Also just because I love Match Play so much, and I feel like I have an advantage in that aspect as well because it suits me pretty well.   
 Q.  Others have said this:  Do you see the golf course changing, especially with the quickness of the greens?  
NOAH GOODWIN: A little bit on the quickness of the greens.  They've slowed down a touch towards the end because the grass starts growing, and as it gets later in the day.  But they're definitely starting to firm out and bake out.  So it will be interesting to see how much they cut them tonight and what they're like tomorrow in terms of firmness and speed.   
 Q.  Then in today's match, you had a little run there where you won 8, 9, and 11.  8, you won with a par.  How did that happen?  
NOAH GOODWIN: He just chipped it right, ran his chip by about 15 feet.  I barely missed my birdie putt, and he lipped out that putt.  On 9, he flared one off to the right and had to punch on to the fairway.  And then hit to the right side of the green.  I stuffed it to like eight feet or so.   
 Q.  What did you hit there and what was your yardage?  
NOAH GOODWIN: I had 180.  I hit a 9-iron, I think.  Yeah, 180.  Yeah, I hit 9-iron to like eight feet.  He conceded that putt, and then on 11, in the morning I hit 3-wood, and I don't really like that play whenever the tees are moved up, and I flared it right, made a par.   
So I've been hitting my driver well all day.  So I took driver down the slot past the bunkers, and I had like 216 in, and I just hit 5-iron to the middle and two-putted and it was conceded.   
 Q.  So you're off and running?  
NOAH GOODWIN: Yes, sir.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT