TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 14, 2015
Micah Awe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Texas Tech - 59, Kansas State - 44
THE MODERATOR: We have Micah Awe with us.  We'll take questions.
Q. Micah, you talked Monday about how you guys need to do a better job of listening to Coach Gibbs.  You guys made some a lot of big plays today in some key times, is that a function of better listening this week to Coach Gibbs?
MICAH AWE: Absolutely, absolutely.  It's a direct trend.  A lot of times in the games, they were checking, Coach was checking and whatever he checked to was the perfect call.  He's a great chess player, you know.  And like I said, we listened to him, somehow we stopped the run.  I don't think it's ironic, it's just a direct relationship of listening to Coach Gibbs.
Q. You see players like Jah'Shawn and others make the plays they made, what do you think that says about the future of this program?
MICAH AWE: It's exactly what you think it is.  I mean, they're make plays now, and they're going to continue to make plays because they are going to continue listening to Coach Gibbs.  There is a time and place for everything.  D'Vonta made like two really big stops there throughout the game that, you know, tackled for losses and a sack, and I told him, you do your job, and no one can stop you except for yourself.  Same thing with Jah'Shawn and everyone else on the field.  This defense is slated for you to make plays when they come your way, and that's what you're supposed to do, just be consistent.
Q. You guys held them to 3.6 per rush and only 123 yards rushing overall.  What's that kinda feel like having gone against the rush all year long?
MICAH AWE: I mean, I have been telling y'all, we've been getting better.  The scores and sometimes the stats may not show it, but that's just part of the testament of us listening to Coach Gibbs.  I mean, this whole week -- everyone knows in this room knows they were going to run the ball.  So we just listened to Coach Gibbs, and they got 123 yards, and Kansas State, I mean, I gotta give it to them, they fought literally to the end.  I never seen a team fight so much to the very end of the game, and I'm just proud of them and proud of us for sticking it through and actually getting out with a "W".
Q. At the same time, did you think they threw a lot more than y'all were expecting?
MICAH AWE: I mean, you had to.  You can't play catch-up with our offense.  That's the thing, that's our advantage, that's the edge as a team.  Our offense gets going it's almost impossible to stop this team, so we knew stop the run, and they would have to pass it to catch up and, you know, we do well when we go against the pass and the run, and we just got to get better at it, though.
Q. Micah, what were you thinking when they got a touchdown with three minutes left in the game?
MICAH AWE: I wasn't -- no one was panicking.  I mean, when you play football, the worst thing you can do, especially in a position like mine, is to panic.  Coach Gibbs gives a call, and I call it the opposite way.  Now the whole defense is messed up, and now it's going to result in a touchdown.  Number one thing I was thinking is keep doing what we've been doing this whole game, and let's see what happens.  Let's listen to Coach Gibbs, he's going to put us in a best situation and trust that.
Q. The position that you were in at the kickoff return there at the end, were you on the hands team?
MICAH AWE: Yes, it was the hands team.
Q. What's your duty or what are you coached to do there?
MICAH AWE: Basically get the ball, get the ball or hit someone.  Kansas State -- you know Kansas State; they're very well coached.  They isolated me and had a great play and, you know, he could have hit me before the ten yards, and at the end of the day I just got to get the ball.  We gotta get the ball to win.
Q. Were you supposed to approach the ball or were you waiting until it --
MICAH AWE: Depends on the situation.  The situation I was in the ball was kind of slow, and I made a decision and he hit me before the 10 yards, like I said, and got a penalty.
Q. Micah, how satisfying is it to get six wins and know that you're going to have a bowl game, and know that there is going to be a reward for your hard work?
MICAH AWE: It's one of the greatest feelings.  This whole week in the locker room I was just telling guys, let's just worry about this one game.  We -- although the season hasn't gone the way we want it to go perfectly, I said we still played well enough to have it in our own hands, and he that was the greatest feeling.  I really want to give a shout out to the scout team, the scout team offense, because people are forgetting about the scout teams and the offense, Corey Dauphine, that guy, he's the reason why I tackle well, because he makes sure he goes full speed in practice, and even the "O" line.  Since I've been here I've never seen a scout team "O" line work as hard and as fluently as they could, and I just want to give them a huge shout out, because the scout team really helped out our defense a lot.
Q. What does this game say about you, the seniors on Senior Day and the future of this program?
MICAH AWE: I mean, it's a foundation, said it last week.  Believe it or not, Coach Gibbs and, you know, on this defense particularly, we're setting a foundation for the future.  I mean, it's going to be a long road, but there's going to be progress, and there is progress every week.  The thing about this defense is it's going to continue to get better.  I don't think -- it doesn't really fall back because you just got to do your job and everything will work out.
Q. Who was the scout team quarterback that give you the option QB look this week?
MICAH AWE: Nick, Nick Shimonek, yeah, and Shimonek is a very -- he's probably the perfect scout team quarterback to imitate the Kansas State quarterback, because Nick -- he's basically a linebacker, in my eyes, because he goes hard every play and tries to run me over if he can.
Q. About the similar size, right?
MICAH AWE: Oh, yeah.
THE MODERATOR: Anything else?  Thanks, Micah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT