TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 26, 2015
Micah Awe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Have you ever been through a game like this before in your career?
MICAH AWE: Closest one was probably my freshman year when we went four overtimes with TCU.  Tonight, it's not a funeral.  It's life.  Honestly, this is life.  You've got to bounce back from it.  The old clichés, we all hear it, but the truth is we've just got to bounce back.  The sun is come to come up tomorrow.  We've got to go play Baylor.
Q. Can you talk about your defense?
MICAH AWE: Yeah, there's always progression.  The guys I'm out there with every day, we go to practice ready to win, ready to work, and Coach Gibbs does a great job of just keeping us focused.  I'll tell you right now, in the locker room, there's a lot of hungry guys out there.  There's a lot of hungry guys who are ready to prove people wrong because it's a loss.  A loss is a loss.  But it's not how you -- this is how you get back up from getting punched down in the ground, so let's see what we do.
Q. What did you see on the last touchdown play?
MICAH AWE: Doesn't matter.  It's what the referee saw.  They saw a touchdown, it's a touchdown.  I mean, the one thing I'm thinking of is how TCU lost to Baylor last year.  Close game.  People forget about that.  But TCU did a great job of bouncing back.  Let's learn from them and keep it going.  That's all we've got to do.
Q. Can you share a little bit about what the's message might be to your team tonight or tomorrow when you guys reconvene?
MICAH AWE: I mean, the number one thing is you've got to mourn it 24 hours.  Win or loss, you've got 24 hours.  After that we've got to move on.  Guys in there are much more mature, and they understand that.  We're all going to go with our families tonight or do what we need to do tonight, and then tomorrow it's on to Baylor and we've got to be as focused as we can be because the world is not a funeral, like I said, this is a game.  This is a game at the end of the day.  We did a good job.  I'm proud of the guys around me, offense, defense, special teams.  We all fought, and it didn't go our way.  But maybe that's for a reason.  We don't know what the reason is, we've just got to keep pushing and see what happens.
Q. TCU's next-to-last trap where they (inaudible), did they catch y'all off guard at all?
MICAH AWE: I mean, they just did a good job of doing what they do.  TCU is No. 3 for a reason.  Their offense is top in the nation for a reason.  They got a couple run plays on us, but at the end of the day, we're a defense.  We've got to stop them from making more points than the other team.
Q. Was there any consideration the last drive of letting them score, preserving your time-outs to give the offense more time at the end?
MICAH AWE: You can scheme it up however you want.  Point blank, we didn't stop them when we needed to.  We were all out there and I trusted all the guys out there.  That last play, I turned around and saw it, they said it was a catch.  It is what it is.  But I'm proud of the defensive backs today.  They got balls caught on them, but hey, Doctson, all those receivers, that's why they got recruited to college.  That's why they're D-1 athletes.  He's probably going to the NFL.  That's great.
They did a great job, and I'm very, very proud of them.  I know they're going to step up because they're young guys and they're not going to bow down.  They're going to keep going.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT