UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 22, 2011
Tommy Rees
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 USC    31
  NOTRE DAME   17 
  
 TOMMY REES: We got off to a slow start. We can't afford to have slow starts. Just got to be --  
  
  Q. Inaudible.   
 TOMMY REES: Yeah, there were some things that happened. You know, it's part of the game and we just have to put it behind us.   
  
  Q. Inaudible.   
 TOMMY REES: To be honest, I didn't see, much -- just trying to keep the ball down. I just think they did a good job.  
  
  Q. Inaudible.  
 TOMMY REES: He seemed to make most of the opportunities. Just had to go down and score.  
  
  Q. Inaudible.  
 TOMMY REES: At times we did really good -- and I think everyone is getting better and improving on just trying to get better.  
  
  Q. Does playing at night make any difference to your routine?   
 TOMMY REES: We played at night on the road before and it made no difference.   
  
  Q. Inaudible.   
 TOMMY REES: Obviously he's not happy, none of us are, he's our head coaches and he's going to push us to be better and be the best team we can be. We are going to have a good week of practice and get ready to play.   
  
  Q. You've talked so much about the playoffs -- do you see the bigger picture goal slipping away?  
 TOMMY REES: The guys will still be motivated. Everyone wants to win and will be motivated. Just I don't find the motivation part to be much of a motivation at all.   
  
  Q. Inaudible.   
 TOMMY REES: The guys understand we need to play better and Coach is straightforward and told us where we need to be better and where we need to improve. I mean, I think the guys already knew and we just want to get back out there and Saturday can't come fast enough for us.   
  
  Q. Inaudible?  
 TOMMY REES: First of all I don't think Coach by any stretch is blaming the players. He understands it's an entire team game. The coaches take a lot of the responsibility, but the players do as well. They put it on their shoulders. They take the burden. They want the accountability when things go poorly, as well as when things go well. I think everyone understands we need to be better across the board and we need to to have a good week in practice.  
  
  Q. How is the knee?  
 TOMMY REES: Just a little tweak to the knee. I'm good to go. Like I said before -- going to do everything I can to get in that game.  
  
  Q. Inaudible.   
 TOMMY REES: Yeah, just tell him to keep his head up. He was supporting me and likewise, so just keep moving forward and tell him not to hang his head.   
  
  Q. The right game has been so effective, was it a day of execution, things don't go right? What's your read?  
 TOMMY REES: Yes, he did a couple things up front. The ability to run the ball, and we kind of had an idea that we were going to be doing that with how we were running ball. So yeah, had a good scheme coming forward, but that's just something we have to take advantage of.  
  
  Q. Coach talked about being out of sync, do you think the bye took the edge off a little bit because things were going so well offensively?  
 TOMMY REES: Not really. I think just -- looking back on it, the first half, we had some missed opportunities.   
  
  Q. Inaudible?  
 TOMMY REES: Any time you can get a touchdown from defense and special teams, it's a huge momentum shift, and kind of jump-started the whole team. Special teams has done a great job for us all year.   
  
  Q. Coach talked about the injury being somewhat chronic --  
 TOMMY REES: You know, I don't really anticipate it being much of an issue. Just get with the training staff and make sure I do everything they ask and just do -- like I said, I don't really think it will be much of an issue, but whatever they want me to do, I'll do.   
  
  Q. Were they doing something different --  
 TOMMY REES: You know, they did some stuff up front that makes it difficult to run the ball. But when that happens, we have to take advantage. There are other places on the field and just have to make sure you know --  
  
  Q. Was the ball behind --  
 TOMMY REES: No, I think it was more of them trying to take away from us than anything else. So hats off to USC. They played well, and they are a good team.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT