UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 30, 2010
Tommy Rees
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






Tulsa University  – 28
  Notre Dame  – 27

 TOMMY REES: It was a tough week for everyone. We're proud of how everyone came out and played. Very proud of how everyone played. 

 Q. How hard was it to focus? 
 TOMMY REES: You know, the coaches and players, we really rallied together. Obviously, a terrible, terrible tragedy, what happened. As far as the team did, everyone stuck together, had to pull through. 
 Obviously the game didn't end how we wanted. But everyone did a real good job of dedicating the game to Declan, his family, being supportive with all that, and also knowing that the school needed a football team out there. So we pulled together and played. 

 Q. Can you talk about what you saw in the last play?
 TOMMY REES: We had one-on-one coverage with Mike. When we have that, we want to take a chance. I under-threw the ball a little bit. The corner made a nice play. 

 Q. Two-point game, when you get around the 20 yard line, you know you're in field goal range... 
 TOMMY REES: The biggest thing about that is Coach Kelly's confidence in us. Helps me accomplish things out there and make a play, put points up on the board. That helps. 
 Obviously it didn't end up how we wanted to, but we'll keep pushing.

 Q. Can you talk about how far you've come since the Michigan game. 
 TOMMY REES: That all comes with how the coaches prepared me, Dayne's input. This time I was really ready to step up.

 Q. How much confidence were you able to get from having success on the field?
 TOMMY REES: A lot. Helps when you kind of get in the groove. Not worry about things anymore. 

 Q. (Question regarding the Declan Sullivan situation.)
 TOMMY REES: Extremely difficult. I'll leave it at that. It's obviously a terrible thing that happened. I'll leave it at that. 

 Q. Tough to think about football? 
 TOMMY REES: Hats off to the coaching staff and the whole Notre Dame community for how they responded. They really helped push us forward.

 Q. Did you know Declan personally?
 TOMMY REES: No, I did not.

 Q. What's going through your mind right now, Dayne out with the injury? 
 TOMMY REES: I just want to be there for my teammates. Obviously, like I said, didn't end up how we wanted to. I gained some confidence. I think the team has some confidence in me now. 
 Just try to keep pushing forward. Just got to keep pushing and get prepared for Utah. 

 Q. How would you discuss your day overall? 
 TOMMY REES: You know, I'm not happy with the last play or a couple plays there in the middle of the game and such. But, you know, I'm pretty pleased with how I performed going out there. Obviously with a loss... 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 TOMMY REES: He just kept telling me, keep pushing, keep working, how proud of me he was. He really helped me tremendously, more than anyone else. Having him behind you like that, he helped me a lot. 

 Q. Can you talk about how having a bye week should help. 
 TOMMY REES: Yeah, no, I feel good. I'm ready to push forward, get prepared for two weeks. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 TOMMY REES: I don't know. I mean, everyone out there you trust, try to spread the ball around as much as possible. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 TOMMY REES: You know, that's not in our hands to make that call. 

 Q. Was there a question Wednesday night? 
 TOMMY REES: We just listened to our coaches, listened to the staff. What everybody said, we followed.

 Q. Now that you have the starting job, how important was coming in early?
 TOMMY REES: Obviously, looking back on that, it made a huge difference for me getting that opportunity to come down. Looking back on it, it was great. 

 Q. Was that ever in doubt? Or was that after Dayne's injury? 
 TOMMY REES: It's such a long time ago, to be honest. Just kind of something we discussed before Dayne's injury, set up the possibility. 

 Q. What did you see on the final pass?
 TOMMY REES: We had one-on-one coverage of Mike. Whenever you have that, you want to take a chance. He's a fantastic player. I under-threw the ball a little bit.

 Q. Did you realize you under-threw it as soon as you released it?
 TOMMY REES: Yes. But with Mike, he can even make bad plays good. That one is completely on me. I take accountability for the throw. Looking back, I would try to take it back. Nothing I can do now.

 Q. How much of a learning experience was it? On-the-job training, not what you expected. 
 TOMMY REES: Yeah, I mean, it helped a lot. I learned a lot out there. Just getting some game experience under my belt goes a long way. 

 Q. The other interception that was returned, what happened on that one?
 TOMMY REES: Again, that one is on me. Any interception is on the quarterback. 

 Q. Coach Kelly was upbeat about how you did. What did he tell you after you came off the field?
 TOMMY REES: Not to put that play on me, take accountability for it, which helped. In the back of my mind, I'm kicking myself for it. He told me he was proud of me, proud of how I played. That helps a lot.

 Q. Did he grab you right away at the sideline?
 TOMMY REES: Yes.

 Q. What does that mean to you?
 TOMMY REES: A lot of the it shows how much he cares and how supportive he is. 

 Q. You're standing out there, the interception, players around you celebrating. What was it like? 
 TOMMY REES: Really upset, obviously. You go from highs to low. Kind of shocked. 

 Q. (Question regarding rhythm.) 
 TOMMY REES: Play calls, the calls were right. My job.

 Q. They said they were trying to change the defense up on you a lot. 
 TOMMY REES: Yeah, Tulsa did a lot. Like I said before, hats off to them. Their coach did a good job. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT