APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 9, 2012
Samantha Stosur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







F. SCHIAVONE/S. Stosur
  6‑2, 6‑4


Q.   Not the result you were after obviously, but what did you make of the whole thing with Melbourne coming up. 
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Yeah, I mean, I guess that's what makes it so difficult.   Melbourne is coming up and I want to start playing well.
I think going on what I thought I did pretty poorly last week to this week, I did better; I just didn't play well enough. 
I think the whole emotional side of things really took over today.   Never felt like I was able to be loose and free with the way I wanted to play.
There was kind of a few points here and there where I felt like, Yep, it's there, and then goes away pretty quick. 
So I guess that's the hardest thing to kind of walk away from today, is that it was kind of very in and out of being the way that I wanted it to be.

Q.   When Francesca was in here said she thought you might feel a little bit under the pump at home, like a lot of players do.   Is that part of it?
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Yeah, I mean, I think today I certainly didn't handle that side of things at all well.   I mean, yeah, I think being in Australia and playing in Australia, I want to play the best I can play and do it all here this month right here right now. 
Then when it doesn't happen, it's obviously disappointing.   It probably makes it more disappointing here than anywhere else.
Yeah, I mean, I guess that's all part of it, isn't it?   Would I chose to be playing big tournaments in Australia rather than not?   Of course I would.   But I want to make it all good, too.

Q.   Francesca said she played really aggressively and didn't let you play your game; is that true?
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Yeah, I think she played aggressive.   I was trying to do that as well.   I think the biggest thing that I didn't do well is exactly what I just said. 
I don't think it was that she did that‑‑ I mean, she played well and played aggressive, but I think if I'm up to it, I should be able to handle that and come back with that same sort of aggression and game style. 
That's the way I've beaten her in the past, so I know I'm capable of doing that.

Q.   When you talk about the emotions, is that the Australia stuff? 
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Yeah, I think it's just the whole expectation I put on myself, too.   You do all the work leading up and you feel okay, and then today all of a sudden it's just like a bombshell hits you. 
So I guess it's harder to handle when you don't really expect it to come out like that when you're playing out on the court.

Q.   How does the pressure of what you had to deal within New York compare with the pressure here in Australia? 
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Yeah, I think it's‑‑ I guess it's the same kind of level, but just two completely different circumstances.   I think for sure that can absolutely help me, like I've said in the past.
I think going through all those experiences in New York and throughout the year and over the years that I've played tennis is absolute key for me handling it.   I think today I went into it with the right frame of mind, and got out there and it kind of hit me. 
So I don't think it was anything from lack of trying to work it out or, you know, not knowing that it's going to be there. 
But I think it did kind of surprise me how much it kind of hamstrung me today. 

Q.   You walked away from here as a first‑round loser before and have done well in Melbourne.   Does this give you a little bit of a confidence boost? 
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Yeah, I think that's definitely something I can remember.   That's something that Dave just tried to drum that into my head as well, is that, yeah, okay, I had two pretty disappointing tournaments, but I've also had that in previous years and got to Melbourne and played better and handled it better.
The last few years have lost third and fourth rounds, but to very good players.   I guess that's definitely one thing I can take away from it.   I do have a week to go, and hopefully that's going to be the same thing this year. 

Q.   What about having the more cushion draw down there.   Is that a confident boost as well?
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Yeah, I guess it's nice to know.   Of course you got to treat everyone on their merits.   I'm not expecting the first round to be easy, that's for sure, no matter who I play. 
It is comforting knowing that have maybe the higher number next to your name and you're going to be out there and hopefully, yeah, my tennis can really come through next week.

Q.   You had the shock of the emotion hitting you unexpectedly now.   Better than in Melbourne, right? 
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Yeah, hopefully.   Hopefully it's come and it will be gone.   I guess that's one thing I can look at.   I've got another week to really keep preparing and doing what I'm doing. 
Yeah, like to think it's all going to come together for me.

Q.   The crowd thing, players try to tap into it and use it their advantage; some block it out.   Which way do you go? 
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   No, I try and‑‑ I enjoy it.   I like hearing the crowd out there.   I would much rather play in front of a really nice, big crowd than ten people on the side.   So I think they really add to the atmosphere.
Yeah, that's nothing that I've really ever tried to shy away from whether I'm here in Australia or even, you know, for example playing Francesca in Rome on center court.   I know nobody wanted me to win there, but I still found the whole experience enjoyable, and like to kind of thrive on that.

Q.   Is it something that gets harder and harder the more losses you have here?   Is it a Catch 22 almost?
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   I think it's harder, because now I'veobviously got this ranking.   In the past, you get a wildcard in and lose to someone ranked higher.   Well, you tried and you can try and play well, but at the end of the day maybe you're not expected to win. 
When you're the fifth seed, of course you want to do better no matter where you are or who you're playing against. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT