TEB BNP PARIBAS WTA CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 26, 2011
Samantha Stosur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







V. AZARENKA/S. Stosur
  6-2, 6-2

 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Sam, please. 

 Q. I guess that was a bit of a leveler after the excitement of Maria last night?
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: Yeah, definitely felt like it was -- you know, I didn't play aggressive enough but I didn't really -- I don't feel like I did anything. I just kinda got pushed around the court, and, you know, eventually was made to make an error or she'd hit a winner. 

 Q. Were you feeling a sluggish after a late finish last night? Did that have anything to do with it?
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: Oh, I can't blame that. Yeah, it was a quick turnaround, but I felt like I was ready to go. But, yeah, I don't think I had the right -- I don't know. It just wasn't fast or, you know, crisp enough to, okay, there's my shot and I've got to go for it and get around it and actually move your feet faster. It was on my terms and I didn't take it.

 Q. How do you characterize the speed of this court?
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: It's pretty slow. It's actually got a little bit faster from when I first hit on it. The first few days it was nearly impossible to hit a winner, and the balls almost tripled in size, and it was quite different to what it is now. So I think as each day has gone on, the court has got better and better. 

 Q. Do you know if you have a day off tomorrow or what the plan is?
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: Not 100% sure yet.

 Q. How do you sort of get yourself back together to play Li Na in the next match?
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: Yeah, I think it's one of those tournaments where you can't dwell too much on any disappointment, because there is going to be this next round to play, and hopefully I can, whether I play tomorrow or the next day, really come out and have another good match and play well and hopefully get through it with a win. 
 So it's one of those, yeah, scenarios where you can't count yourself out yet all because you lost one match.

 Q. You were obviously were involved in a well-documented incident in the US Open final with Serena. How much more difficult is it when a player shouts out, Come on, sort of as you're trying to lunge for the ball than when you're playing someone who is making a noise after each shot, as is always the case with this opponent today?
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: I don't know. I don't know whether you could really compare the two, to be honest with you. I don't notice -- I think when you hear it every single time, it kinda -- you become unaware of it almost. But I don't know. I guess it's one of those things. Some players feel the need to do it and some don't.

 Q. Is there a difference with players like Victoria, if you were to watch her back on TV, do you hear it more then?
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: Yeah. (Smiling.)

 Q. What does it sound like to you?
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: Horrible. But I don't know. I don't like hearing it when I'm watching it on TV, but when I'm out there I don't really notice it.

 Q. In general, though, Wozniacki said the other day it's a form in cheating in some ways, she thinks, if players are doing it deliberately, which she thinks some of them are. Would you agree with that? 
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: Yeah. I think if it is deliberate, it's probably not right whether -- yeah, I don't know. I guess you'd have to ask those players whether they are or not, but I'm pretty sure no one is going to say they're deliberately doing it.

 Q. Do you think they are?
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: I don't know. I -- I don't know. I'd hope not.

 Q. Can I just ask a little bit about Li. You've got obviously a good record against her relative to the other two you've played in the group. How does your game match up well against hers?
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: Well, I think she probably doesn't, in the past, anyway, especially through those matches in Toronto and Cincy, didn't like the ball getting out on my kick serve, and I was able to use heavy balls and really get her jagged off the court. 
 You know, I had two matches, they were actually quite different. One was really close in three sets and one was a lot easier. 
 So I think it's one of those matches where I've got to definitely go out there, play aggressive, and know that maybe these are her tendencies, these are mine, and how are they going to match up. 
 So I don't think there is going to be any real secrets to how we're probably going to go out there and play against each other. Of course, you have to be ready for anything different, but I think we both know each other's game styles pretty well, so it's a matter of seeing who's going to match it up the best on the day.

 Q. Just with the noisemaking, do you feel like it's gotten to a point where it's gone too far, or do you think it's acceptable with where it is right now?
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: I don't know. I think it's been like this for a little while. It's not -- it's not really something I feel strongly about. I don't really think about it other than, you know, when I get asked about it in situations like this. 
 So I don't know. If someone wants to make a rule about it that you can't do it, fine; if they don't, then that's fine as well.

 Q. You don't feel like the tour leadership needs to step in and do something about it at this point? It's just the way it is?
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: I think so. I make noise when I hit the ball, as well. It's just not so screechy. So nobody really says anything about it. 
 Like I said, if somebody did something about it, that would be okay; if they didn't, it doesn't bother me.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT