CHINA OPEN
October 4, 2011
Samantha Stosur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. KIRILENKO/S. Stosur
  7-5, 1-6, 7-5

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. All seemed to be going well in the second set. What happened in the third then, do you think? 
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: I think no doubt I didn't get off to as good a start as you want going into a third set. 3-Love down and then 5-2 down, you know, that's not a deficit you want to be in when it's the last set of the match.
 Having said that, I got it back to 5-All and thought I started playing quite well again and really felt like I was on top of it again. Unfortunately probably didn't play a great game at 5-All, and then there was a couple points in that last service game of mine where I think I had chances to do a little more with the ball and I didn't. 
 She came up with a winner on match point, and that was one of those examples. 

 Q. Seems all the Grand Slam winners here are suffering early exits: Petra, Li Na, and now you. Actually you all didn't do a good job after winning Grand Slam titles. So for you what is the reason? Are you tired? Too much pressure? 
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: I don't know. I'm not going to answer for those two girls, but I've only played two tournaments since winning the US Open, so I don't think it's the end of the world that I've had the two results that I've had. Obviously I want it to be a lot better than what it has been, but I guess it's one of those things. 
 It's not easy to keep backing up, and we are at the end of the year. I guess I've played the same opponent two weeks in a row, and she's managed to play I think very well and I've maybe been a little bit under my best. That makes for a really tough match. She's got the better of those tight third sets the last two times. 

 Q. I think it's the eighth match you have had with Maria, right? Four wins for you and four wins for her. So now what change would adopt to defeat her next time? 
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: I don't think there's anything, you know, really bad with the tactics going out there to play Maria. I think US Open I won in three sets; last week I lost 6-4 in the third; this week 7-5 in the third. So there is really not a lot in it.
 I think it's just a matter of at those crucial times doing my game plan and really sticking to it when it really matters. You know, I think today was just a couple of points here and there, that if maybe I got on top of or started the third set better or once I had that lead in the first set -- I mean, I had two set points. It could have been a straight sets win.
 So I'm not going to start thinking that I've got to change everything with the way that I play against her. I think it's just a matter of doing it better the next time I go out there. 

 Q. Are you a rugby fan at all? Do you fancy Australia chances in the World Cup?
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: I have no idea what's going on in the World Cup. I flicked it on and saw Russia playing last night I think. It's interesting watching football with no commentary. It's one of those things that's hard to follow when you're in this part of world. 
 But I do hope they do win. 

 Q. After winning US Open, people are expecting you step up and carry the flag for the women's tennis in Australia. Will you shift your focus more on singles in big tournaments than previously, like especially in Grand Slams?
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: No, I don't think all because I won US Open now I focus on these big tournaments. It's been a focus for a very, very long time.
 Last year I didn't do very well in the Premier events and the Premier 5 events, and this year I've done a lot better. There are still weeks I guess like this that I would definitely like to improve that. 
 I would like to have a good end of the season, so I think it's just one of those things I need to get better at. It's not through having to change the -- wanting to do it more. It's just a matter of doing it. 

 Q. Can you talk about your future plans for the next few weeks? Obviously you have a very good chance to qualify for the WTA Championships. 
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: Yeah, I guess we wait and see how everyone else goes this week and where the rankings are at and all that and see if anyone else qualifies and what the situation is.
 I know next week I'm playing Osaka, so hopefully my chances are still good. I know I've still got to do well next week to really make it for sure that I'm going to be there. 

 Q. Wait and see?
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: Yeah, at the moment I'm planning on being there if I definitely need to be, so it's one of those things I guess we wait and see. I'm entered, and I'll go if need be. 

 Q. Just forget this match and forget US Open. I just want to ask, Australian Open is in January, so what's the plan now to get ready for this?
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: Well, I think first and foremost I got to finish this year first. I'm not thinking about the Australian Open and what I'm going to do to try and do well there.
 I mean, I know it's the next Grand Slam, but I've still got a few tournaments left this year, and then take a break, do all my pre-season. I'll treat all that as normal. 
 So I know that I need put in the hard work and keep doing what I'm doing and keep trying to improve, and then we'll see what happens at the Aussie Open when it happens. Definitely be a goal of mine to try and do well there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT