CHINA OPEN
September 30, 2011
Samantha Stosur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

 Q. How many time have you spent after reaching the US Open champion, and how much do you think your life have been change after that? 
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: No doubt there's been changes. I guess just so far it's been just very busy. Spent some days at home to celebrate and do media and all that kind of thing, and since then, played in Tokyo and now here. 
 So there is no doubt things have changed. To be honest, there hasn't been too much time to, I guess, really settle down and maybe get used to it yet. 

 Q. Do you feel any pressure coming to this tournament after winning the US Open? Do you feel any pressure to perform a certain way?
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: There is no doubt I would like to perform well and hopefully win a lot of matches. But, you know, I think last week I was a little bit disappointed not to -- well to lose my first round. You know, I want to do better at each tournament. 
 My last two times here to the China Open haven't been very successful, so I definitely would like to be able to turn that around. No doubt after winning the US Open it would be a nice feeling to try and continue that form. 

 Q. What are your hopes for tennis in Australia?
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: Well, I think it would be great if tennis keeps getting more and more popular. I know there are lots of programs in place to try and make that happen. I think with my success and with having as many players in the top 50, top 100 always doing well out on tour, in the press, it's going to make hopefully a lot of younger kids start playing. 
 We've always had a love for sport in Australia, and I'm sure tennis is right up there. So I think the better we can do out here, the more that's going to filter through and get those young kids playing. 

 Q. (Through translation.) Congratulations on your first Grand Slam title. Do you feel differently after you have won the US Open? And especially in the future Australian Open, do you have any particular expectation? 
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: Well, yeah, like I said before, I think there is no doubt things have changed, and now I've achieved that goal that I've always wanted to: to win a Grand Slam. 
 So now I think there's things I have to maybe reassess, make new goals, and really maybe feel comfortable with what I've achieved so far, I guess. I think those are all things that will take time to get used to. 
 But as far as the Australian Open goes, I haven't really thought about the Australian Open yet. I know it's the next Grand Slam, but it's still four months away. So I'll try and finish this year off and really focus on this tournament and whatever I have left to play before I get too caught up in the Australian Open.

 Q. How many sponsors you had and how many sponsors right now you have? Do you feel commercial events affect your game or your training?
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: Um, well, I don't think my life has changed as much as Li Na's life being from China. But, no, I mean, I haven't signed anything new yet. I know that there are things being spoken about, but my manager takes care of all that. We'll talk when it's done.
 Hopefully there will be good things to come from winning a Grand Slam. Obviously that's the biggest tournament that we can win, and this is what every tennis player wants to achieve. So I'm sure there will be good things to come of it. Just nothing in the last two weeks. 

 Q. Do you think commercial events affect your performance?
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: I guess it's just a matter of managing your time well. If things come about, obviously you have to give time to that and, you know, be prepared that that's what you have to do in order to have that. 
 But I think that's all part of being a better tennis player, is managing your time on the court, making sure that you always do your practice, play the matches, do what have to do there, and then that is on the other side. You have to manage your time a lot better I think when things become more involved with the commercial side. 

 Q. (Through translation.) What is your expectation at this year's China Open? 
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: Well, I would like to just play well. I would like to find that same form that I had in New York. At the end of the day, I just want to be playing well. If I can get through as many matches as I can by doing that, then that's great. 
 But at the end of the day, it's the first round that matters at the moment. If I have to play tomorrow, then I'll be prepared to play tomorrow. Hopefully I can get through and then give myself another chance to play another good match. 

 Q. Who do you feel is your toughest opponent going into this tournament?
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: I think there are numerous tough opponents. I think there is no one you can take lightly out here. This is a huge tournament for us. Everyone comes here to play. Everyone is ready and prepared to do whatever they need to do to do well. 
 So I think it's one of those things where you can't take anyone lightly. Obviously there are opponents I match up well against and not so well against. At the end of the day, it matters on that day. You have to go into each match expecting it to be tough. 

 Q. Last time I saw you in training, I found your muscle is very good. How much time do you spend in gym, and is that the key factor for you to defeat Serena, do you think? 
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: Well, I think it helps if you're strong. With the way that women's tennis is played now, I think it's very powerful and you have to be fast and strong to compete with some of the best players. 
 So it's a part of my training that I do take seriously. But having said that, I'm not in the gym every day. I think it's one of those things that depending on how many matches I'm playing, how I'm feeling, I might do more or less.
 Before the US Open I did one gym session the week before and nothing during US Open and only two since, so it really depends how much you're playing to how much off-court training I'm doing. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT