AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 18, 2011
Samantha Stosur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. BARTOLI/S. Stosur
  6-3, 6-1 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Pretty ordinary conditions out there? Not much fun?  
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: No. (Smiling.)  
 Yeah, I mean, I thought the other day when I played Vera it was the worst I had ever played in, but I think today was even worse than that. It definitely wasn't easy at all.   
 Yeah, it's one of those days where you've just gotta try hard and do whatever you can to try and get through, because it's very hard to hit, you know, the shots that you want.  
  
  Q. Frustrating when you're trying to be attacking in those sort of conditions because you have such a small margin of error?  
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: Yeah, absolutely. It's the same for both of us. Marion hits the ball pretty hard and flat and kind of goes forward and whatever else.  
 But, yeah, it was almost like she could get that first short in more times than I could and I was kind of on the back foot. Yeah, it's just not easy.  
  
  Q. Is your mind already on Wimbledon today? The draw is out. Any part of that today?  
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: No, I don't think so. I think, you know, we work up today all four of us knowing that hopefully we're going to have two matches to play today. Yeah, I haven't thought about Wimbledon since I've seen the draw, so it's just one of those things.  
  
  Q. In view of the conditions, how good of preparation is this for Wimbledon?  
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: Oh, it's been great. It's been a really good week for me here. You know, in spite of this match today, you know, I'm going to into Wimbledon feeling good. I think I played some really good tennis here and got through some really good matches.  
 So it's pretty much been exactly what I would want going into Wimbledon, and hopefully I can play well there as well.  
  
  Q. Do you think this is perhaps the most open Wimbledon for some years for women?  
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: Well, possibly. I mean, it seems like every time a Grand Slam rolls by, everyone thinks it's the most open Grand Slam that's ever happened.  
 You know, again, all the same players are in it once again. There is a big group, I guess, that could do well and possibly win it.   
 So I guess it's hard to say who the favorite would be right now, but as the tournament goes on, I'm sure it will become clear.  
  
  Q. A question regarding Serena Williams, how did you find her here, her games?  
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: Well, I didn't watch too much of her play, but yeah, a first tournament back in a year is always difficult.  
 I'm sure she was ready to play here. I guess the biggest test will be next week now that she has had a couple of matches and kind of got her feet back and whatever else. So I guess she's ready to go.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT