AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 18, 2011
Samantha Stosur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. STOSUR/L. Davis
  6-1, 6-1 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. How close to the perfect performance was that for you today?  
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: Yeah, I thought I played very well. There's not too much I did wrong, I don't think. Was able to set up points, rally well. When I got a chance to hit the winner, I did.   
 So, yeah, a very good way to start the tournament.  
  
  Q. What was the idea you wanted to do today, the one or two things you wanted to get right today?  
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: I think at the end of the day, I didn't know how she was going to play or how she hit the ball or anything like that. First things first was to see what she was going to be able to do.   
 During the warmup, I started feeling pretty comfortable with the ball I was getting. Kind of had the feeling if I set up the point, hit a good shot to begin with at the start of the rally, I was going to be able to dictate, do whatever I wanted to do.   
 I was pleased I was able to do that pretty much from the first point to the last point.  
  
  Q. How do you think she handled it? She said she felt overwhelmed. Did that come across?  
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: Yeah, I kind of expected for her to maybe feel like that. I know if I was in that position, I would have when I was that age. Yeah, it's not easy walking out not only your first Grand Slam but on center court.   
 So, yeah, it wasn't an easy task for her. I tried to, again, right from the start play well so that she would feel that, because I wanted to get off to a good start and really set the tone for the match.   
  
  Q. Were you able to get any sort of confidence out rallying with Rafa the other day? You probably don't get the chance to hit with him too often.   
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: Not too often. Yeah, that was a great experience. It was lots of fun being on the back end corner hitting forehands against Rafa. That certainly doesn't happen every day.   
 Yeah, it was kind of funny how happy those two guys got every time they won a point against us. I guess we were hitting the ball pretty well.  
  
  Q. Have you ever towered over an opponent like that?  
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: No, not too many times you play that someone kind of small, I guess. She obviously does something well.   
 I don't think any of us really know her too well. She's just kind of starting out. I think she'll definitely be able to play quite well. She's, I guess, got to play the right way for her stature and what she's got.   
  
  Q. You said to yourself, you've got to go in for the kill, not hold back?  
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: Yeah, I know what that feels like. I've lost 0-0 on center courts before. That's not a good feeling. I guess it wasn't for her.   
 No, it's definitely tough going out there. For me I've got to go out there and focus on myself and what I want to do. You can't have anything like that pop into your head, because tennis is too easy to swing things around very quickly. So you got to stay on it every point.  
  
  Q. When you win that convincingly, is it almost hard to gauge how well you played? Is there any sort of sense of because maybe the opposition wasn't great, it's hard to judge?  
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: I think at the end of the day you've got to just take it for what it was. I can walk off the court saying I hit the ball well, felt good, and moved well. That's the day it was. So I guess you go out and practice tomorrow for the next round and take each match as it comes.   
 But I think, yeah, I guess you got to expect the next round to be tougher than that. But, again, you got to play each match on its merits and do what you have to do.   
  
  Q. Your next opponent, are you excited?   
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: I don't actually know who I play.   
  
  Q. You go around the world, but you always look forward to playing this one.   
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: Yeah, absolutely. It's a fantastic event. I think a lot of players would say they love coming here. To be an Australian playing in your home Grand Slam, there is no better feeling.  
  
  Q. Does it help you?  
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: Yeah, it does. I love playing out there and have the crowd behind me and the support. Like I say, it doesn't happen too often that you can play at home, so you've got to make the most of it when you can and really savor that experience.   
  
  Q. Did you have a giggle when you heard the guys in the crowd repeatedly singing songs based on you?  
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: Yeah, I guess Australians are known for their chants, trying to get behind their players. So, again, that doesn't happen everywhere around the world that you get to play. I guess it helps maybe relax you a little bit.   
 You know, you can take a few more seconds between points when they're rattling on with whatever they're doing. It's a good feeling out there.   
  
  Q. Are you doing anything differently in terms of more or less people in your entourage this time, same hotel, different restaurant? Have you changed anything superstitious or otherwise?  
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: No. Staying in a different hotel. Same people around me. There are things that are the same and different. Hopefully they're going to gel together to be a good combination.   
 Yeah, I try not to get too hung up in all that superstitious things because it can do your head in a little bit if you try to do everything exactly the same.   
 Yeah, I got the people around me that I need around me and the ones that are there all year round. So don't need to change anything this week.   
  
  Q. Do you have a preference for day or night game next match?  
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: Not really. I think if I can keep winning matches, I've got to expect to play day and night. Whatever it ends up being, it's always going to be good to be out there.   
  
  Q. I think you play Dushevina or Camerin. How does your game stack up against those guys?  
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: I played Dushevina last year in Charleston; won that one. Probably seen her and played her in doubles a lot more than what I played Camerin, but she's been around a long time, as well.   
 As I say, going to have a bit of a battle out there this afternoon, maybe watch a little bit, maybe work out, talk a little bit about it later with Dave.   
 At the end of the day, I think I've got to really focus on what I want to do, how I have to play, and execute that. Whoever it ends up being, I've got to be on my own game to do well, and hopefully that will be good.  
  
  Q. Did Dave have much to say to you after the match today?  
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: He said, Well played. You did well. He said, You worked out how she was going to be able to play, hit the ball pretty early on. I was able to kind of dictate whatever I wanted to do.   
 Yeah, he was pretty pleased with the way I served and the way I hit the ball.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT