WTA CHAMPIONSHIPS - DOHA 2010
October 28, 2010
Samantha Stosur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 E. DEMENTIEVA/S. Stosur
  4-6, 6-4, 7-6 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. You didn't quite have the same intensity tonight. Where did you feel it went awry?  
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: Yeah, it was a different feeling out there at the start of the match. I kept trying to get going, and for the most part, you know, felt obviously into it and tried my hardest. In the end it was a good match.  
 I think we both were kind of a bit off throughout certain periods throughout the match.  
  
  Q. Were you aware that you just needed to win one set to get through to the semis?   
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: Yeah, I mean, I did know that, so I was obviously happy once I won that first set, but wanted to really win the match. That probably shows by going 6 in the third.   
 In the end, it's still a positive and I'm through. Yeah, you always want to win the matches when you're on the court.   
  
  Q. Was it hard to pick yourself up for the second set? Must've been quite excited.   
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: No, to be honest, I didn't think about it then. I knew after I won that first one that I was in, but that didn't really cross my mind throughout the rest of the match.   
 I just kept playing point by point and trying to win the match, but wasn't quite to be.  
  
  Q. Must be a great thrill to get through to the semifinals. First Australian in plenty of years.   
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: Yeah, for sure. That was the goal coming here, to try and get through the round robin. I've achieved that now, so I'm very pleased to at least play a fourth match.   
 We'll see what happens from there.  
  
  Q. Quite a few legends on the honor role. Have you actually had a look at the honor role?  
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: Well, I know pretty much who's on it, so, yeah, it would be -- I don't know what it would be like to have my name up there as well. That's what I'm trying to do. If it does, then I'll be very proud of that.  
  
  Q. You have ice on your knees. Is that standard after match, or a new injury you've picked up?  
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: No, it's just when I slipped towards the end of that match, I landed on my knee. It actually wasn't sore, but it's just a bit puffy now. Take the precaution and ice it a bit.  
  
  Q. Got any preference for who you would like to face in the semifinals?  
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: No, not really, to be honest. I guess obviously there are a couple of players that that could be, so I won't jinx myself and say who I would rather play.   
 It's one of those things it is who it is. It's going to be tough either way. I'll give it my best shot on Saturday.  
  
  Q. Physically how are you holding up after the three matches, and is it a good time to have a day to prepare?  
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: Yeah, of all the days you could pick to have off, my choice would be tomorrow. I'm happy to have the day off tomorrow.   
 Physically feeling, you know, pretty good. Today, even though it was a longer match, probably physically easier than the last couple because of the lack of humidity tonight and all that.   
 It was a good test tonight to know that you can get through a two and a half hour match and all that. Like you said, I have the day off tomorrow to recover and be as ready as I can for the next one.  
  
  Q. Does losing stall your momentum or jolt your confidence going into the semifinals?  
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: Um, no, I don't think so. Yeah, I would have preferred to have won, there's not doubt. But to lose 6 in the third, it's not fun, but at least you know it's a matter of a few points here and there.   
 You know, I know at 5-4, Love-30 I was two points from winning the match and definitely had some chances to go ahead and do better.  
 You know that's tennis. I'm not going to dwell on it. I tried my hardest and didn't quite come off. That's what happens when you play quality opponents.  
  
  Q. Do you want to thank your friends and family for your latest award.   
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: My friends and family didn't have anything to do with it. (Smiling.) No, it's a nice award to get. Yeah, there is a lot that goes with being a tennis player, not just the time on court, so you try and do your bit for the sport and for everyone else.   
 Yeah, it's nice to get rewarded for that.  
  
  Q. You are quite a sort of private person and a little bit reserved on the outside. There's that sort of perception of you. Do you get any more comfortable with this kind of thing now? I think that award involves media stuff as well and sponsor appearances. Are you growing into that side of being a top 10er?   
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: Yeah, I think so. I've always been a bit shy, and, yeah, don't really let myself go too much. I'm getting more used to it for sure. The last couple years there's definitely been more commitments you have to fulfill and things to do and all that kind of thing.   
 I quite enjoy that side of things. Yeah, I guess it brings out another side of me, so it's fun. Yeah, it's what you have to do.   
  
  Q. You already told us that you do not really have any preference of your opponent. Isn't there any of the three players who are still doing well in the other group you do not like?   
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: Yeah, I mean, there are two players in that round robin group that I've never beaten. That's obviously not a great step to have. But there's always a time for that to change, I guess.   
 Whoever I end up playing, it's going to be tough no matter what. I guess that's the way it should be for the semis of the Championships.  
  
  Q. You had a pretty unlucky matchup with Kim Clijsters at the US Open.   
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: Uh-huh.   
  
  Q. You missed an opportunity, I guess. Do you think it's like that? Do you see that match like an opportunity you missed?   
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: The one at the US Open?   
  
  Q. Yeah.   
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: Yeah, I think for sure I had lots of opportunities to get through that match and wasn't able to take them. You know, I suppose if I get another chance to play Kim, then I can remember that and know that I was in a position to really go ahead and possibly win the match and I didn't quite do that.  
 So if I get that opportunity to play her again, I would definitely try and rectify what went wrong at the US Open.  
  
  Q. Was it even more sore to see her winning the US Open afterwards?  
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: Well, I guess I tend to lose to the winner quite often these days. It's happened a few times. So I guess that's a good thing in some ways.   
 Yeah, I guess it shows how close you can be. You know, that's the way it goes. She won the event, and she deserved to win it in the end. So I guess just more motivation for me to try to do better.  
  
  Q. Coming in here with not great form, would you have taken a semifinal if someone offered it to you at the start? Would that have been enough for you to be satisfied with the results of the week?  
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: Not necessarily. So, yeah, like I said right from the start, I knew that I wasn't far from turning it around. I've been able to do that now.   
 Semis is great, but I think there is still a little bit left. I would love to try and get through that one. If you're in the final, you never know what can happen. I'm still hungry and still want to press for a little bit more.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT