U.S. OPEN
September 7, 2010
Samantha Stosur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







K. CLIJSTERS/S. Stosur
  6-4, 5-7, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Very windy conditions out there tonight. Can you just talk about playing in that wind? Obviously the serve was a big factor for both people. 
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: Yeah, it was definitely tough conditions, windiest conditions I've played in all week, and probably the worst I've served all week, as well. Put those two things together, and you don't hold serve for the third set and you lose. 

 Q. Would you say that match is a bit of a missed opportunity, or do you leave here pretty satisfied with your whole campaign?
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: Look, I'm happy to make it to the quarters, by far my best result here. I'm gonna be disappointed about this one, I think. You can't break serve and have chance after chance after chance and blow it in a quarterfinal. 
 It's just too big of an opportunity to kind of let go, and unfortunately that's what I did today.

 Q. Nonetheless, it's been a pretty big year for you in the slams. 
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: Oh, yeah without a doubt my best year by far.
 I mean, coming off the two weeks off that I had to have and then to come here and have my best result and play some really -- you know, I think I played three definitely very good matches here; I'm very pleased. It's just unfortunate that I had to end like this.

 Q. One of your toughest losses?
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: I think so. Any time you lose deep in a Grand Slam it's tough, no matter what the circumstance. I guess if you play a little bit better it's easier to take. I think I don't think either of us played our best tennis tonight by any means.

 Q. What was going on in the third set when you were struggling with your serve? Was it the wind or were you tense or what was happening?
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: Um, oh, I think from the end against the wind it was very hard. I think we both definitely struggled from that end more than the other. So don't really know what excuse I can use to not hold serve with the wind unfortunately. 
 You know, it was definitely tough conditions, but it's the same for both of us. I guess when it came down to the crunch, she kind of hit the ball in a bit more and, I don't know, kind of got the opportunity that -- the feeling that squandering those three break chances you weren't gonna get another one.

 Q. How tough was it today waiting all these hours because the first match going four hours? Was it a problem for you like, you know, keeping up for the match?
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: No, I don't think so. You gotta be ready for that. I mean, I was expecting get on at 7:00 and we went on at 8:30, so it's not a major delay. We had to follow matches like that before, and, yeah, you just have to deal with it.

 Q. How do you feel physically tonight?
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: Actually I felt not too bad. I felt much better than what I did yesterday, and had a good night's sleep last night. Yeah, I felt as ready as I possibly could be.

 Q. Is it too early to determine what the positives are out of what you achieved these two weeks?
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: Well, I think the positives are that I made it to the quarterfinals in another Grand Slam. You know, I know I can walk away happy with that, but I think there was definitely a chance to make it a little bit better. 
 I know Kim's a great player and a very tough opponent here. I mean, it wasn't the easiest match to win. But when you have chances like that, that's what's disappointing, not to kind of lose 'em on your own racquet. 
 I don't think she really stepped up and hit, you know, 12 winners to break my serve three times in a row.

 Q. You were on the other end of a late night a few nights ago; Nadal just went on. Can you weigh in on that? Is it a good thing, bad thing? 
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: About what? That we go first or second or... 

 Q. No, just going on at this hour. 
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: Yeah.

 Q. For fans, for players. 
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: Yeah, I think it's definitely not easy no matter who you are. You don't ever go out and practice at 11:00 at night, and, you know, prepare for big matches like this at that time.
 But also, I think it's unusual that I think three day matches go longer than eight hours, as well. So, yeah, it is tough. 
 And I mean, I wouldn't want to play at 11:00 every single night if I had the chance, either. It's just one of those things. You know, you play at night. TV, fans, and unfortunately the players are the ones that gotta get up the next day and go out and practice and play again. That's tennis.

 Q. No one managed to win two or three games in a row except for the end of the first set. What happened there? Was she stepping up or were you a little less in the zone or what happened there?
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: In the first set? 

 Q. Yeah, first set. 
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: Yeah, I think -- well, 4-2 up, I didn't do too much on that return game. Yeah, she played fine, I guess. I think she all of a sudden lifted to play outstanding. 
 But, you know, again, it wasn't easy out there to find your best tennis. I think it was a match of getting your chance and really taking it. When she got it, she took it more often than what I did.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT