BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 19, 2010
Samantha Stosur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. JANKOVIC/S. Stosur
  6-2, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Difficult day, but good week, right?  
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: Yeah, exactly. Try and look at the positives. It was a great week, but today definitely didn't play anywhere close to as well as what I can.   
 Really just, I guess, got frustrated and wasn't able to pull it back. When you're a set down against a quality player, it's always tough to come back.  
  
  Q. What was the difference today?  
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: Um, well, I started out really well. I think when I lost that service game from 40-Love up, then all the frustration and anger built up and I let that carry on too long.   
 Even though I lost that game, I was still well and truly in the match, but I just -- I don't think I gave myself the opportunity to try and get into it or get back into it as quickly as what I needed to.  
  
  Q. So what happened earlier on when you called for the trainer? Was it something to do with your shoulder or neck?  
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: My arm was just aching quite a lot. I've had it before. Usually some Tylenol fixes it.  
 That's really what I wanted, but they just really wanted to assess it.  
  
  Q. What was your strategy against Jankovic going into this match?  
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: Well, I mean, I think everyone knows that her backhand is better than her forehand. She hits through the lines quite a lot, but I just needed to try and keep getting to her weakness.   
 I don't think my footwork or anything was really good enough today to allow me to do that, given that she hits the ball. You know, not a lot of girls play like that. I needed to have much better footwork, and, you know, patience than what I did today.  
 I mean, I knew what I wanted to do out there. I just didn't implement it or give myself a chance.  
  
  Q. Were you a little bit tired?  
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: No, I actually felt really good. I don't know. I think as soon as you get a little bit frustrated or agitated about yourself, then that's probably the first thing that kind of drops off.   
 Then before you know it, you're a step behind the ball and totally getting dictated to.  
  
  Q. What do you take away from these few days, week and a half?  
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: Oh, it's been a great week. I've played four really good matches. Today was a bit disappointing, but, you know, it's still my best result in a tournament like this. I think there's a lot to build on.   
 You know, again, I've got to look at the positives and know that I was able to do all those good things for the whole start of the week. It let me down today, but you can try and improve it next week, which is a good thing about tennis.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT