INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA (WOMEN)
May 16, 2007
Samantha Stosur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  How much difference can make two years?  Same stadium, same opponent.  What happened?  How much did you change?   
 SAMANTHA STOSUR:  There's no doubt I'm a lot better player than what I was two years ago.  I mean, I played Amélie another few times since that same match, and I had another really bad loss.   
 And then kind of played a bit better against her in Zürich last year.  I think this time I actually believed I could win the match and just gave myself every chance to do that.  Obviously played very well, and I'm happy with the way I played.  But I think just because I believed that I could possibly beat her this time certainly helped.   
  
  Q.  Can I say finally?  Because I'm commentator for Italian television and I did that match.  And before the match I said, Mauresmo is a very good player.  She's No. 1.  But be careful, because your opponent, she's a fantastic player, she has potential as a very good player and I was little bit disappointed.   
 SAMANTHA STOSUR:  So was I.   
  
  Q.  So after two years I got my revenge myself.   
  
  Q.  Where is the question?   
  
  Q.  There is no question.  I want to know what really changed besides that, besides mentally?  There is something that changed, or just a mental thing?   
 SAMANTHA STOSUR:  I think that's definitely a big part of it.  Just my whole game:  Mentally and just believing that, you know what I've got and what I can do out there is going to work.   
 There's no doubt I've improved all my shots as well and feel confident with what I'm doing.  But I don't know, I think it's just little I bits and pieces that along the way you have to keep improving and change a little bit.   
 You know one day you hope they're going to come together.   
  
  Q.  It looks like in these days, for a good double player it's impossible to be a good single player.  How can you cope?   
 SAMANTHA STOSUR:  I think my doubles so far it's definitely helped my singles game, and right now I'm really focusing hard on my singles.   
 But playing with Lisa, it's definitely a good feeling being at tournaments and winning tournaments.  We won Berlin last week and then we come here and I had one day to prepare to play this tournament.  So you think, Maybe I would have liked to have more days to prepare, but then you just go out and play again and you get used to it.   
 If you're playing both events and getting to tournaments late it's a good thing if you're winning tournaments.  I don't think bad to play doubles at all.  I enjoy it.   
 You know, hopefully I can have a little bit more success in singles, but it's okay.   
  
  Q.  They say if you go much better, if you reach much better rankings, say you get the first win, what happens with the double?  You think you go on playing?   
 SAMANTHA STOSUR:  I think so.  We'll, there's a long way to go before I have to worry about not playing doubles.  I think it would be a good problem to have.   
  
  Q.  He's a friend mine.  I do the same sort of thing.  He was saying this young lady is from Polish decent.   
 SAMANTHA STOSUR:  Yes.   
  
  Q.  It's true?   
 SAMANTHA STOSUR:  Yes.   
  
  Q.  Where from, a sister --   
 SAMANTHA STOSUR:  My grandfather.   
  
  Q.  So the grandfather went to Australia?   
 SAMANTHA STOSUR:  No.  No, my grandpa was Polish, grandma was English, and then they met and move to America.  My dad was born in America, and then he ended up in Australia with my mom.   
  
  Q.  No tennis player, not even the English lady?   
 SAMANTHA STOSUR:  No, nothing.   
  
  Q.  No tennis player in the family, no?   
 SAMANTHA STOSUR:  No.   
  
  Q.  No game?   
 SAMANTHA STOSUR:  No game.   
  
  Q.  I saw her playing.  I know Amélie very well.  Oh, what about -- not to detract something from you.  I don't know the right word.  He speaks much better.  He has a house in Miami and I have a house in Lake Como.  Not to take away from Amélie, because Amélie -- well, she was saying to our French colleagues that she had appendicitis.  Did you ever have that?   
 SAMANTHA STOSUR:  No, I never have.  Yeah, fingers crossed, I don't have it.   
  
  Q.  But knowing her well, how do you feel?  Because she was a little bit, no, when you have surgery, she was a little bit -- what do I say?  Recovering.   
 SAMANTHA STOSUR:  I mean, there's no doubt when you get forced to have a break and get forced to have surgery it can take a little bit of time to come back.   
 But I guess everyone goes through this sort of thing at some point in their career, and so far, touch wood, I haven't had to do that, so I don't know what it's like.   
 I don't know, I'm just happy with the way I played.  I'm sure eventually she'll get back.   
  
  Q.  What about the clay?  I mean, because in my time I was a minor tennis player, but I used to play some Australia tennis tournament on grass.  In clay you feel at home, or not really, on this clay?   
 SAMANTHA STOSUR:  No, not really.   
  
  Q.  Not really?   
 SAMANTHA STOSUR:  It's probably not my favorite surface by any means, but I think the more years I've been able to play on it I've learned how to play and certainly feel a lot better playing on clay than in the past.   
  
  Q.  If they grew grass you would feel better here?   
 SAMANTHA STOSUR:  Maybe.  I think clay is a becoming my friend.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT