AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 18, 2007
Samantha Stosur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  First question, please.   
  
  Q.  Where do you think you lost it and where did she win it?   
 SAMANTHA STOSUR:  Uhm, I think I lost it at 3-All, I think it was 3-All, when I questioned that line call, and then the ball girl hurt her ankle.  I lost concentration.  Lost the first set.  Finally got it back at 2-Love down.   
 Everything started to go a bit better.  I started to play a bit better.  I don't think she served quite as well in the second set, and that allowed me to get into the points and everything.   
 I think it was 30-Love up in the first game of the third set.  You lose that game, the whole momentum changes again.  You win six games in a row, that first game of the third's really important.  I didn't do enough in that game to win it.  Straightaway, behind the eight ball again.   
  
  Q.  Was it a night of lost opportunity, do you think?   
 SAMANTHA STOSUR:  Yeah, I think so, for sure.  It's just disappointing to not play I guess at a good enough standard for long enough throughout the night.  But, I mean, I think she played pretty well, did a lot of things that kind of made things tricky for me.   
 But I think there's no doubt that I certainly didn't help myself out there with some of the decisions I made.   
  
  Q.  Does this count as a major blow, considering where your career may or may not be at the moment?   
 SAMANTHA STOSUR:  Uhm, I don't know.  I guess hopefully looking in the long-term, it's not.  But, I mean, at the moment it's pretty devastating to lose second round.  You got a good opportunity possibly.  I guess the hard part is not playing your best out there.  You try and do that.  You come up short sometimes.   
 I don't know, it's just kind of -- sucks pretty much.   
  
  Q.  Is it devastating in isolation or is it devastating in a broader sense?   
 SAMANTHA STOSUR:  Probably in isolation, I think just because it's here.  You want to do well here.  I had a good year last year.  Felt like I've been playing really well.  Feel really physically great.  Just, I don't know, one of those days that you kind of -- you don't want to have at this time of year.   
  
  Q.  Remember what you said to yourself when you dropped serve first game of the third set?   
 SAMANTHA STOSUR:  Probably, You idiot, or something.  I don't know, I just don't think I knuckled down enough when I had to.  Maybe it's concentration.  Certainly not intentionally.  I guess it happened.  That's something I really need to try to improve.   
  
  Q.  Your attention can sort of shift to the doubles.  You must rate your and Lisa's chances here?   
 SAMANTHA STOSUR:  Yes, for sure.  I guess tomorrow is a new day.  I have to kind of forget about tonight, go into that event with confidence.  We are the top seeds.  We'd certainly love to try and get to the final and hopefully win the event.  You know, it's a long road ahead.  I guess that is now the goal.   
  
  Q.  How easy is that to do, to forget what happened tonight?   
 SAMANTHA STOSUR:  I don't know.  Sometimes tricky.  I guess it's just what you got to do.  Tennis, you got to come back every day win or lose.  Hopefully tomorrow goes all right and we end up having a good match.   
  
  Q.  All Australia's hope in the women's singles resting with Alicia Molik.  Have you had a chance to see how she was going?   
 SAMANTHA STOSUR:  Seen her play?   
  
  Q.  Yes.   
 SAMANTHA STOSUR:  I watched a little bit in and out on TV when I was at home today.  Yeah, she didn't have a good first set, but I guess she really came back in the second and third, playing well.   
 There's no doubt she must be playing pretty well to be in the third round.  Hopefully she can carry Australia a little bit further in the tournament.   
  
  Q.  What is the situation with you and Nicole?   
 SAMANTHA STOSUR:  I mean, she's playing in her event here anyway.  Yeah, she'll keep helping me out while I'm in something.  I don't know, I guess we'll have to have some sort of conversation soon and see where things are at and what we can work out.   
  
  Q.  Would you like to continue?   
 SAMANTHA STOSUR:  Yeah.   
  
  Q.  You've gone without a coach before.   
 SAMANTHA STOSUR:  I mean, yeah, I've done okay.  But I think it's something that I have to -- it's not something that I just want to kind of flick away and think that's not important.  I think it's certainly got a place -- I certainly feel like having a coach certainly makes things easier to work on, just having that extra person there.   
 It's definitely something I'm going to look at.  Whether that's Nicole or someone else, I'm not really sure yet.  I've got to talk to Nicole, see what kind of her availability is, work out a bunch of things, I guess.   
  
  Q.  But a match like tonight will reinforce that?   
 SAMANTHA STOSUR:  No doubt, yeah, for sure.   
  
  Q.  Do you enjoy the big stage, the television night matches?  Are they something you look forward to?   
 SAMANTHA STOSUR:  Yeah, I was really looking forward to tonight.  I played a couple last year, enjoyed it.  I don't know.  I think it's a great opportunity to be able to play on an occasion like that.  Yeah, I like it.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT