MEDIBANK INTERNATIONAL
January 9, 2007
Samantha Stosur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
  Q.  So what did you think about that match?  
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: I thought it was a pretty tight match. At the start she was just playing too  well. She hardly missed a ball and was  just going for her shots, and that's the way it is. Before I knew it I was 30-Love down and that  set was kind of hard to get back into, but the second set I felt like I started  to get into the match and construct my points a little bit better and started  to get into it. Unfortunately I played  not too good a tiebreaker at the end. I  mean, on the whole, it kind of plays with how I played again and fought, so I  guess that's all you can do.  
  
  Q.  What's the hardest part of her game to counter?  
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: Well, I think she moves exceptionally  well. I mean, she gets to everything and  she somehow -- when she is on full stretch, she hits unbelievable shots sometimes,  especially off the backhand side. Like I  said, backhand down the line is one of her best strokes, and unfortunately  that's kind of hard to play against when you don't expect that ball to be  coming back down the line.   
 I don't know, I think at the moment  she's playing with so much confidence. She  had a great last six months of last year, and I think she won last week in Auckland, and she's just playing, and I  guess she just feels like she can't lose, which is kind of hard to play  against, as well.  
  
  Q.  Do you feel like she's playing above her ranking, that she's playing  like a top ten player at the moment?  
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: I don't know what her ranking is now.  
  
  Q.  12.   
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: I think she'll be top ten probably by the end  of the week.  
  
  Q.  But she's a danger for Australian Open?  
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: Yeah, for sure. I think when you've got that sort of  confidence, no matter where you are you're going to be dangerous, and she's got  the game to, I guess, back it up, as well. So I don't know.   
  
  Q.  So having these two matches, how does that stand you then for the Aus  Open do you think?  
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: Good, I think. I had two good matches here and would have  liked to have a couple more, but that's not the way it's gone this week. I mean, it'll give me a chance to get some  good practise in and maybe have a day off before the Open and get to Melbourne  and get used to those courts and those conditions down there, and hopefully by  Monday or Tuesday, whenever I've got to play, I'll be totally ready to go  again.   
  
  Q.  Is it useful playing the really good players here even if you don't  quite get up to them, just to know what stage you have to be at come Melbourne?  
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: Yeah, I guess you always want to challenge  yourself, and now with where my ranking is at, I've got to beat players at this  ranking and that are in this tournament.  I feel like the way my game is going, I'm getting certainly closer to  that every time I get on the court. But  it's going to take time, but I'm pretty pleased with the kind of consistency  I'm able to play it at the moment, so that's one good positive thing for me.  
  
  Q.  So what would you like to improve out of today then?  
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: Just going for the right shots at the right  time, not going for a backhand down the line at 5-2 down in a tiebreaker and  miss and go down four match points, just little things like that where you feel  like you know you can make that shot, but is it the right shot to go for at  this particular time.   
 I don't know, I feel confident in  the way that I've been playing, and I feel like I've been playing pretty  aggressively and moving into the net well, and I feel more comfortable with  that. So I think all in all, I'm doing  all right, it's just a few little things here and there.  
  
  Q.  Wearing sunglasses on court, is that something you've always done, and  do you feel comfortable with it?  
 SAMANTHA STOSUR: I've pretty much done it since I was 14 or  15. Yeah, I don't know why I first  started, I just did, and now I'm just used to it. I find it so hard to be outside on or off the  court without wearing them at the moment, so yeah.  
   
  End  of FastScripts…  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT