PILOT PEN TENNIS
August 24, 2006
Samantha Stosur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
  Q.  Did you expect to be here?   
 SAMANTHA STOSUR:  Not when I was losing my last round of quallies, that's for sure (smiling).  I mean, since then, I thought I played really well my first two quallie matches, then not quite so good the last one.  Since then I've really picked up my game.  Today I thought I really played well.   
  
  Q.  Can you describe what this week has been like for you?  You didn't think you were even going to be in the tournament, right?   
 SAMANTHA STOSUR:  Yeah, I mean, in qualifying, it's kind of -- it's a big ask sometimes to be in the last weekend.  I'm also playing doubles.  We only played one match so far in the doubles.  We've got to play again today.  It's just been pretty busy.  I've been here all day every day nearly playing a lot.   
 I certainly won't complain about that.   
  
  Q.  Have you ever gone this far in a tournament having gotten into the main draw this way as a lucky loser?   
 SAMANTHA STOSUR:  No, I don't think so, nope.   
  
  Q.  Does the mindset change?  You probably get a phone call at the last minute saying you're in.  Is it almost better that you don't have time to think; you just go out and start playing, not worry about who you're playing, what the consequences are?   
 SAMANTHA STOSUR:  Sometimes it is like that.  But when I lost, I knew I was the first player to get in if someone pulled out.  I actually knew the night before someone pulled out.  I look their place.  I was able to kind of be prepared that I knew I was playing third match the next day.   
 I guess I was fortunate rather than hanging around here, getting the last second call-up and not really being prepared.  I guess I was in just like everyone else once I found out.   
  
  Q.  What were your goals at the beginning of the week and what are they now?   
 SAMANTHA STOSUR:  I mean, pretty much, at the beginning of the week, I wanted to play a lot of matches, keep playing well.  I've been playing well the last few weeks, wanted to keep that going this week.  That's what I've managed to do, I've played a lot of matches, which is exactly what you want going into a Grand Slam.   
  
  Q.  I think you play either Mauresmo or Davenport.  Have you played either one of them?  How do you think it's going to have to go tomorrow?   
 SAMANTHA STOSUR:  I mean, no matter who I play, it's going to be a really tough match.  I played Mauresmo a few times.  Never really done too well against her.  Against Lindsay, I played her a few times.  I played her last week in LA.  That was first match back since Wimbledon, I believe.   
 But I guess going into tomorrow, if I play Lindsay, I'll be looking forward to that.  I know I beat her the last time we played a week ago.  That's fine for me.   
 As for Mauresmo, I mean, I don't know, I'm going to have to play well, that's for sure.  I'm going to have to play well against either of them.   
 I don't know.  Just go and see how it goes.  Definitely just try and keep up what I've been doing so far on the court.   
  
  Q.  How tired are you?  Does it help that your match is over so early?  They have to play tonight.   
 SAMANTHA STOSUR:  Oh, for sure.  I think it's great I was up first this morning, finished by quarter past 11, got a couple of hours before I played doubles.  Hopefully I'll be out of here not too late tonight and can rest up during tonight.   
 Yeah, as you said, they have to play tonight.  They'll have to bounce back a little quicker than I've had to, but they only have to play one match.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT