AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 21, 2006
Samantha Stosur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  I know the unforced errors count probably wasn't what you wanted.  Tell us about the good things. 
 
SAMANTHA STOSUR:  Yeah, I guess one of the good things was that I was able to really try and stay as patient as I could out there.  I mean, she really didn't give me anything.  I saw a couple times the unforced errors count on the scoreboard was always a little bit higher for me, but I guess I was going for a little bit more than her.  I really had to work hard for every single point.  She just didn't really give an inch, and I wasn't getting any free points off my serve like I usually do.  She just made everything really tough for me.  
 
Q.  Was it more a nervous feeling out there?  Singles match, did the atmosphere make you more nervous than you thought you would be?
 
SAMANTHA STOSUR:  Initially I wasn't feeling too nervous.  I just didn't feel totally settled out there.  You always want to start off well.  We were just going game for game, but always breaking serve.  It was kind of a different situation than what I've ever been in before.  I just wanted to try and stick with her and hopefully win one of my service games.  Then I got up the break and served at 5-3 I think and lost it.  You know, we were both I think struggling on our serves a little bit, but we were always really neck-and-neck, trying not to give each other too much away.  
 
Q.  How much would you have to improve to beat Martina on what you did tonight?
 
SAMANTHA STOSUR:  I don't know, I guess every match is different.  Every time you step on the court, it's a little bit different.  So obviously Martina's going to be a really tough opponent out there for me, and we've never played before.  She's probably going to step it up another gear with her unforced error count, keeping it low, always keeping the pressure on me.  I don't know.  I'll probably have to maybe lower it a little bit, but I think I've still got to go for my shots and really play the way that I want to play.  
 
Q.  Is it a sense of excitement for you now or a sense of pressure knowing that you're into the second week for the first time?
 
SAMANTHA STOSUR:  I don't think there's really any pressure on me now.  It's just exciting.  I mean, obviously I've never been to this stage in a Grand Slam before.  And to be doing it here, it's just a great feeling.  So every time I get another opportunity to go out on center court, I'm just going to enjoy it as much as I can and really just go for it and give it my best shot. 
 
Q.  What will your recovery be like from tonight's game?  Tougher one than previously. 
 
SAMANTHA STOSUR:  Yeah, it was a little bit longer than my other two matches.  Probably just try and get to bed as soon as I can.  I think I got doubles tomorrow.  I'll be back out here again tomorrow.  
 
Q.  You've got two doubles. 
 
SAMANTHA STOSUR:  Yep. 
 
Q.  It's going to be hot.  Is that an ideal preparation or is that a bit too taxing?
 
SAMANTHA STOSUR:  I've entered in it so I'm going to play.  It's going to be hard.  Who knows, the afternoon will probably be called off again for another five hours.  We'll see if we even get to play two matches.  
 
Q.  Have you watched any of Martina's matches?
 
SAMANTHA STOSUR:  No, not this week. 
 
Q.  Haven't seen her play?
 
SAMANTHA STOSUR:  No.  
 
Q.  How do you feel you are striking the ball?  How do you feel within yourself and your own game?
 
SAMANTHA STOSUR:  I feel great.  I think I'm playing pretty well out there.  I'm really moving forward and coming to the net much more than what I have in previous years in tournaments.  I just feel great out there.  I feel physically fine.  Just want to go all day.  And obviously having the crowd behind me lifts me up and keeps me going out there as well. 
 
Q.  Can you pinpoint any reason for this success, anything you've done differently?
 
SAMANTHA STOSUR:  Just hard work and just trying to believe in myself a little bit more.  
 
Q.  The local thing, no pressure at all for you?  Obviously fairly intense media coverage centered on you. 
 
SAMANTHA STOSUR:  I'm not really feeling any pressure now.  I mean, it's my best result and I've just got to enjoy it as much as I can.  As I said, every time I go on the court, just enjoy it and give it my best shot.  
 
Q.  Is it more difficult to play a game like tonight's where you're expected to win and you're on center court rather than a game like the couple you played, Ivanovic and Hingis, where you won't be expected to win and you can go for it a bit more?
 
SAMANTHA STOSUR:  Yeah, I mean, it is going to be different out there having -- as you just said, I probably was expected to win tonight.  Everyone was behind me.  It may have been quite disappointing if I went down.  Against Martina, I mean, everyone knows how much of a great player she is.  I've just got to go out there and give it a go.  I mean, I really don't feel any pressure to win out there.  I've just got to enjoy it.  
 
Q.  Do you think your game's more aggressive now than it has been in previous years?
 
SAMANTHA STOSUR:  Yeah, I think I'm probably still trying to be as aggressive as what I was in previous years.  I'm just doing it a bit better now, not doing it so like erratically and just making tons of errors at the wrong time and just going for wrong shots.  I think I've really tightened that up.  My shot selection is getting a lot better.  I'm certainly coming into the net a lot more than what I ever have done.  I guess maybe it is a little more aggressive, but it's probably just a little more controlled now. 
 
Q.  Is that an experience thing?
 
SAMANTHA STOSUR:  I think so.  I think it's just maturing as a player, as well.  
 
Q.  Would you have a preference for a night game given the schedule tomorrow, more recovery time?
 
SAMANTHA STOSUR:  Doesn't really matter.  I'll be ready to play no matter when I play.  Doesn't really bother me being out in the heat if that's what it comes down to. 
 
Q.  Do you think you might have an advantage over Martina with your new improved conditioning?
 
SAMANTHA STOSUR:  Possibly.  I mean, I enjoy playing in the heat.  If it's 35 degrees, I'll be out there plugging away and just giving it my best.  If it is in the heat, then maybe I will have a little bit of an advantage.  I'll be just out there.  I'm sure I'll be able to handle it.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT