APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 9, 2017
Samantha Stosur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. PAVLYUCHENKOVA/S. Stosur   
6-3, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Even athletes have days where it doesn't happen.  It must be frustrating?  
SAMANTHA STOSUR: Yeah, it absolutely is.  I don't feel like I played, by any means, as well as last week, obviously.  It was tough out there.  I mean, she was getting very good strikes on the ball, and I feel like I never really could get into the match.   
It was tough conditions out there.  I don't really know what to say.  I don't feel like I played bad.  I don't feel like I played obviously as well as I can.  It was just kind of done, and that was it.  It was like one ball, two balls, and it's kind of over.   
Yeah, it was definitely hard to really try and get into it.  I was trying, even the last game, I was down, and I was still bouncing around, I tried -- I knew when things are happening that quick during points, things can also turn around very quickly.  So I was still trying to give myself every chance, but, yeah, it was not easy.   
 Q.  You have always tried, no matter what is going on, to the very last point.  That was the case today?  
SAMANTHA STOSUR: Yeah, absolutely.  I mean, there is no point being out there if you're not going to try for every point, no matter what the scoreline.  Again, you never know.  People have come back from bad situations.  I guess you've always got to give yourself a chance.   
 Q.  What process do you take between now and the Open?  
SAMANTHA STOSUR: Just keep practicing.  Yeah, I guess I've got another week now.  I would have loved to, again, be building with some matches, but that's not the case.   
So, yeah, no other option but to get out on the practice court and keep practicing and try and play some more sets, do some drilling.  Yeah, prepare for it like any other time I would throughout the year.   
 Q.  Is it one of those situations where, you know, she can be very difficult when she's on and she cracks the ball and doesn't give you any rhythm at all?  Did you kind of feel that way behind the rallies from the get-go?  
SAMANTHA STOSUR: Yeah, look, she's a quality player.  She's beaten me the last few times we have played.   
You know, she's always played -- never want to necessarily see her first round.  Today she was kind of like that, as well.  Yeah, a few returns she'd shank it, go really deep, and then all of a sudden I'm behind the point and I felt like I actually started the point out well, and all of a sudden I'm behind again.   
That's the way it goes sometimes.  Yeah, she's a tough player.  She doesn't give you too much rhythm, hits the ball hard, I thought she served quite well today.  She creates pretty good angles sometimes from not a lot.   
Yeah, I've obviously got to be able to hit the ball a bit better, a bit deeper, a bit harder, and try and combat that.  Yeah, it was hard.   
 Q.  How much of a concern is it, the lack of matches heading into next week?  
SAMANTHA STOSUR: Can't be too concerned.  It is what it is.  You can either look at and freak out, or, okay, I've got a week to keep preparing and do what I need to do.   
I really don't feel like I'm too far away.  I feel like I'm still hitting the ball well enough, I'm moving well, I'm feeling confident with what I'm doing, with my structure with what I'm trying to do, with all that.   
So it's not ideal to not be playing matches, but I feel like I don't have to necessarily change too much.  It's a couple of points here and there.  You know, it can make a big difference, so that's kind of the outlook I'm taking.   
 Q.  Is the Australian Open one of the four slams where, you know, the maybe week, week and a half leading up, there is more practice matches being played like at Melbourne Park, like you're seeking each other out to get a few -- it's not the same as a regular match, but try and get into match rhythm?  
SAMANTHA STOSUR: Yeah, probably, you're right, probably more so than a lot of other Grand Slams, because lots of people are, yeah, scrambling to get court time and, yeah, trying to play points, because nobody's really been able to do it.   
I mean, I haven't looked through the draw, but I'm sure I'm not the only person who has lost two matches and now you're in that situation.  Yeah, there is obviously lots of XOs going on and that kind of stuff.  Everyone is trying to do the same thing for a reason.   
 Q.  2006 I think you hadn't won a match before the Oz Open and then went to round of 16.  Does that give you a bit of confidence?  
SAMANTHA STOSUR: Yeah, I mean, it's 10 years ago, but if that's the case -- like I said, I still feel like I'm on the right track.   
Even last week, it was a couple of points, and that's a difference.  If I'd won that, then, you know, probably myself and everybody else would be like, Oh, she just beat, Muguruza and, wow, things are going great.   
Yeah, look, I always said that tennis can change very quickly.  You get a chance every single week to improve and win matches.  And if you're right there and you're giving yourself a chance, then as bad as it seems one week, it can also be very good the next week.   
Yeah, that's what I'm trying to do.   
 Q.  You have experienced the other side, as well, pressure, maybe there won't be much expectation on you now, you may be able to fly under the radar?  You can focus a little bit more without having that outside...  
SAMANTHA STOSUR: Oh, I don't know.  I know what I feel like I'm capable of and what I want to achieve and the expectation for myself, you know, what I kind of expect, I guess.   
So whether or not -- again, if I am flying under the radar or anything, if win a couple of matches, then I'll be right there, anyway.   
So it's very fickle what goes on, so I don't necessarily look at anything too closely.  Like I say, I think the most expectation and everything else comes from yourself and what you necessarily believe you should be able to do.  So outside things don't really matter.   
 Q.  Pliskova was saying last week that her success at majors, she does think it's a bit draw-dependent, there are certain players she's great with, others not as comfortable.  Can you talk about luck of the draw a little bit, as a veteran, kind of knowing that, yeah, some players you're great against, and some players cause you problems, and how much that goes into slam success?  
SAMANTHA STOSUR: Yeah, I mean, I think draws can play a big part.  It's easy to say, Oh, you've got to beat everybody in the draw, which you absolutely do, and to win a Grand Slam, there is seven matches that you've got to back up every single day over two weeks.   
But, you know, sometimes certain matchups are certainly easier than others, depending on the player.  I mean, I have had a great record against Zvonareva who, for a long time in her career, was 2, 3, 4, 5 in the world.  If I necessarily saw her, I wouldn't worry about it.  But a lot of people would.  She's 2 in the world.   
Then other people I've struggled against, and you don't necessarily want to see them early rounds.   
Yeah, the draws can play a big part, and especially with people who are dangerous and may not be seeded, it's not easy.  But once you get into the draws and stuff, it's third, fourth, quarterfinals, then I think becomes a little bit more even.   
But certainly in those early rounds, it can play a big part.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT