WIMBLEDON
June 30, 2016
Samantha Stosur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. LISICKI/S. Stosur
  6‑4, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

Q. Hitting pretty big out there. Tough nut to crack, wasn't she?
SAMANTHA STOSUR: Yeah, overall I thought she played very well. You kind of know that Sabine is capable of playing like that, so you've gotta really take any opportunities you get. I think unfortunately going down that break early kind of maybe let her loosen the shoulders a little bit. Really relax into that. If you can keep it on serve, maybe then you do see some cracks form.
But apart from my second serve, I thought I actually played pretty decent, and she played very, very well.

Q. What's next for you after Wimbledon? You're not playing doubles are you?
SAMANTHA STOSUR: I'm not playing doubles. I'm playing mixed with John Peers. So hopefully I can stick around for a little while yet for that. After that, then I'll go to Florida for,well, could be a week, could be a bit more depending how I do. And then I will start in Washington in the States.

Q. She seemed to take a lot of the match out of your hands. Must be disappointing to lose, but when she plays in zones like that, her stats are amazing. Does it take some sting out of it?
SAMANTHA STOSUR: Yeah, I guess it kind of makes things really simple to know what happened. Look, when you are playing a player who's playing very well, you have to find a way to do anything you can. I felt like I did that. I tried my hardest. You know, I guessed on a few serves. I tried to stand back a bit further to try and just give her something different to look at. 
But when she's hitting the line on those serves, even if I went the right way, I wasn't going to reach them very good. Yeah, when you're serving out a match like she was and you can serve like that, it's fantastic, seems very easy.

Q. Quite a dense quarter of the draw there. Playing the way she's playing, could she come through it?
SAMANTHA STOSUR: Yeah. I mean, if she's serving big and feeling confident, like I said, the day after I won my first round, I'm sure she loves playing here. Her confidence really rises when she wins a couple matches here. So if she can be on it like she was today, then she's certainly got the weapons to beat most players in the draw. So it will be interesting to see who does come through. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT