AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 21, 2016
Samantha Stosur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








C. WOZNIACKI/S. Stosur
6-2, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You haven't had much time on grass really, so how confident were you feeling?
SAMANTHA STOSUR: Yeah, well, I guess the good thing is there is another week till Wimbledon starts.  (Smiling.)  But no, I mean, have had two hits two days on grass so far.  The first day I got here I lost my time because of rain.  Then I got a good couple of hours the next two days.  Yesterday it rained all day and I didn't do anything.
So, look, it's not ideal, but that's, yeah, the way it is.  Overall I felt like today I still hit the ball pretty well.  I had lots of game point opportunities and wasn't able to take them.  Yeah, 2 and 1 is not good, but like I said, it's only my third day.  So, yeah, it is what it is.
Q. And 2 and 1, did you feel like they were at least competitive?  Sometimes score lines aren't reflective of...
SAMANTHA STOSUR: Yeah, the first game of the match I had 15-40, then 40-Love.  I could have very easily been 4-1-up in that first set.  Then you get one or two of those first games instead of losing them from that position and things can really be different.
But you have to do it otherwise it means nothing.  I guess the good thing is I was putting myself in, you know, a somewhat of an opportunity to be doing well, but obviously there needs to be improvement there to follow through with that.
Q. Can you talk through a little bit the new coaching arrangement that you have going on here and into Wimbledon?
SAMANTHA STOSUR: I'm just here with Andrew Roberts.  He's our Fed Cup hitting partner.  He's based out of Perth, the opposite side of the country (smiling).
Yeah, he's coming here and Wimbledon and then we're going to assess what we want to do from there.  So other than that, that's the arrangement.
Q. Had you already been talking to Andrew before, like, you know, knowing that things were going to end with David?
SAMANTHA STOSUR: Yeah.
Q. Or was this something when you got back to Australia you kind of got sorted out?
SAMANTHA STOSUR: We had spoken a little bit, and I actually spoke to him on the phone the day before the French Open started.  Then once I finished there, then it was kind of like, all right, what is the plan?  It's very hard to think about things when you're obviously so involved in a tournament.
So, yeah, it was kind of last minute.  Then it was possible for him to be able to come over.  That was, yeah, really good for me that he was able to come over on short notice and come.
Yeah, like I said, we will just see how it goes from here.
Q. Obviously in Paris you had the match against Garbiñe.  Were you surprised by what happened 24 hours later that she was able to win the whole thing?
SAMANTHA STOSUR: To be honest, I thought she was gonna have a very good chance of beating Serena.  I mean, God, Serena, she made another Grand Slam final.  It's a fantastic achievement.  But from what I saw, I didn't feel like she was probably playing her best tennis to get to that point.  But like I said, she still made it to the final.  But I thought Garbiñe was playing very well.  Yeah, I was quite impressed with the way she played against me, so I wasn't necessarily surprised that she was able to, yeah, continue that form on the next day and then win the title.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT