WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2016
Samantha Stosur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. STOSUR/M. Linette
  7‑5, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
   
 Q. What was the most pleasing part about that apart from the win?  
SAMANTHA STOSUR: I think I played a really decent level the whole way through. There was just one little patch with those double faults. Apart from that, I felt like I was, yeah, relatively in control of what was going on. Able to keep that going. Overall pretty happy.  
   
 Q. How did the grass feel under your feet?  
SAMANTHA STOSUR: Good. Not much to be disappointed about with that match. Like I said, I felt like I was in control.   
There's always things you want to get a little bit better at. Yeah, for the most part I thought I played well and really solid. I served well. A couple little things on my forehand. Yeah, apart from that, I was happy.  
   
 Q. Linette was a player you didn't know much about, you said before the match. Did it take a while to adjust to what she was doing or figure her out?  
SAMANTHA STOSUR: No, not necessarily. I think Robbo did a very good job telling me a few little things about her to be aware of. I was at the start trying to see what she was going to do with the things that he told me about.   
I felt like we were pretty on the spot with what kind of she was going to do and then what I needed to do back. It was just a matter of trying to execute it well.  
   
 Q. Lisicki. Obviously you have got a little bit of history with her. How do you feel grass influences the matchup?  
SAMANTHA STOSUR: I mean, it's no doubt this is a tournament she feels very comfortable at no matter kind of what she's been doing in the leadup. I don't know what she did actually in the grass court tournaments before this one, but she probably hasn't had a fantastic year so far, but I'm sure when she walks through the gates here she probably feels like she's No. 1 in the world.   
You have to be aware of that and know she has a very big serve. She plays big and hits the ball hard. She absolutely plays aggressive. If she's on that day, you have got to be really willing to fight fire with fire and go after it, and, yeah, not kind of feel like you're going to get dictated to. Because against someone like her with a game like she's got, it's very easy to feel under the pump and under pressure all the time if she's playing well. You have to be aware of that and balance out the patience and consistency with your own aggression.  
   
 Q. You played her a couple of years ago and it was a three‑setter. It was a few years ago. Will you look back to that or was it irrelevant?  
SAMANTHA STOSUR: No, that's probably a decent one to have a look at, considering it's here and on the same surface. What are players good at they're always going to be good at. What they are deficient in, if they haven't really improved it noticeably, then they're always going to be the weaknesses. It's probably not a bad one, yeah, to try and find and have a little look at.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT