ROLAND GARROS
June 3, 2016
Samantha Stosur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
G. MUGURUZA/S. Stosur   
6-2, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How do you sum that up?  
SAMANTHA STOSUR: Look, she played really well.  You know, it was really hard for me to really get anything on my shots.  She was obviously really aggressive and, you know, stood on her inside the baseline nearly the whole time.   
You know, she really put me under pressure right from the start, and I felt second set I started kind of finding my range a little bit more.  But, yeah, look, she played very well.   
 Q.  When you look back on the tournament as a whole what are your feelings about that?  
SAMANTHA STOSUR: Oh, I'm really happy with the week I have had, or couple of weeks.  It's been, yeah, really great Roland Garros for me.  Semis is something I'm really proud of, and I guess, you know, it's also really satisfying knowing that I had a really good leadup to here and then I was able to continue that form right through.   
So, yeah, I'm really happy with the matches that I have had and how I have done.   
 Q.  Is this the level that you see yourself at for a little while now, having built yourself back up to semifinal tennis?  Is this what you feel you're going to be for the next couple years?  
SAMANTHA STOSUR: Well, I'll try.  Yeah, that would be a nice achievement.  (Smiling.)  Certainly I don't feel like the tennis I have played is, you know, out of myself or something that I'm not able to replicate.   
I mean, got to be able to do it, but I certainly feel like I'm able to continue on the form I have showed this week.   
 Q.  Just on today, it seemed like even as well as Garbiñe was playing, some things weren't quite working for you.  The serve was off more than it has been for the whole tournament.  Is there anything you kind of put that down to?  Was it a lot of tennis inside the space of a week?  No time off, et cetera?  
SAMANTHA STOSUR: No, I'm not going to blame anything other than I knew I needed to do it better.  But, again, she out that pressure on right from the start.  I had 15-40 in her first service game, and if I was able to break back there at 1-All instead of 2-Love, then who knows?  Things could have really started out a lot different.   
I didn't serve enough good serve percentage today, but I was trying to go after it.  It was really cold and you didn't feel like you were getting a lot pop, so I really had to try and do something, otherwise I knew if it sat she was going to swing away and dictate, which unfortunately she still was able to do for, yeah, I guess most of the match.   
 Q.  We have talked about this being the final fling for you and Dave.  Is that firstly still the case after the success you have had here?  If not, are you locked in for the next coach or that kind of thing?  
SAMANTHA STOSUR: No, I don't have anyone else lined up.  So, I mean, at the moment I'm going to the grass solo.  Yeah, that's where that is at the moment; we haven't spoken about continuing or anything like that.   
Yeah, it's been -- this was the decision made after the Australian Open, so, yeah, I don't know.  Unless he's got a surprise for me, that's still I think what's going on.   
 Q.  Garbiñe's chance for tomorrow?  
SAMANTHA STOSUR: Absolutely.  Is that other match finished?  Look, I do think she's got a very good chance to win tomorrow.  I think she's played well the whole tournament.  I watched a little bit of Serena.  I don't feel like she's in her best form at the moment.   
Having said that, she's still in a final and you certainly wouldn't ever count her out.  I think Garbiñe is playing well enough to certainly have a really good chance.   
 Q.  What grass court events are you playing?  
SAMANTHA STOSUR: Eastbourne and Wimbledon.   
 Q.  What was tougher out there, the way she was playing or the conditions for you to handle?  
SAMANTHA STOSUR: Yeah, I don't know.  Probably -- they both kind of go hand in hand.  I felt like I wanted to try and get the ball up and bouncing around, which really wasn't happening for me.   
And then if it kind of sat, then she was able to really dictate and force her, you know, hard, aggressive flat tennis on me and hit, you know, many, many balls within, you know, the last meter of the court.   
It's hard to be aggressive off those balls, and that was that.  I think it kind of -- both weren't easy today, that's for sure.   
 Q.  She's in her second slam final at age 22.  I was wondering, you have played a lot of players.  I was wondering what you think distinguishes her and what it's like to play her?  
SAMANTHA STOSUR: Well, look, she obviously is a very good player.  She's had a great couple of years since she's got to the, you know, top of the game.  She's stayed in the top 10 that whole time.   
So once you're there it's not easy to stay there, and I think matches like today and probably what she's played all week with her aggressive style is why she's there.  If she's on, she's very hard to beat.   
But if you can kind of find little cracks and put her in positions of the court where she, you know, can't just hit the way she wants to, then I guess that's where you see what deficiency she has.   
But you've got to be able to find that, and when she's on that's difficult.   
 Q.  Have you officially kind of put your hand up for the Olympics and that sort of thing?  
SAMANTHA STOSUR: (Nodding.)   
 Q.  You're definitely going to -- assuming you get picked you're definitely on board?  
SAMANTHA STOSUR: I am assuming I am going to get picked.  I'm the only one in at the moment.   
 Q.  Can you talk about your thoughts on the Olympics?  I know a lot of people have pulled out across various countries.  Obviously you're a pretty passionate Aussie so you want to be there.  Is that the case?  
SAMANTHA STOSUR: Yeah, I'd love to be there.  I definitely want to be there.  It will be my fourth Olympics.  I think any opportunity you've got to be in the Australian team in tennis or any sport you've really -- you really look forward to those moments.   
The Olympics I have been a part of so far have been some of the best weeks of my career.  Even though I haven't had the results-wise, it's been incredible.   
So I'm really looking forward to it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT