APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 11, 2016
Samantha Stosur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. STOSUR/R. Vinci   
4-6, 7-5, 7-5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Must be excited to get through that.  
SAMANTHA STOSUR: Yeah, obviously happy to get through that.  It was a bit of roller coaster and a very long one and really I guess some ups and downs.   
But I had more ups than downs and made it happen at the right time.  So, yeah, I'm really happy to get through obviously.   
 Q.  People were saying that it was really odd that you and Roberta have been on tour for so long and have only ever met twice before.  What was it like to play her?  Did you know much about her?  
SAMANTHA STOSUR: Yeah, no, we both knew each other's games pretty well.  I think we played each other as well in doubles a fair bit.   
Yeah, I knew that kind of what she was going to be trying to do.  I know she likes to hit her slice a lot.  I think generally she is in at the net a bit more than she was today.   
Yeah, I don't think any of us were surprised at what was I guess playing out.   
 Q.  Hantuchova is next.  If you win.  It'll be the first time you got past the second round in Sydney since you made the finals here back in...  
SAMANTHA STOSUR: 11 years.   
 Q.  How big a deal would that be?  
SAMANTHA STOSUR: Oh, it would be great.  Yeah, look, Dani and I have played a few times as well, but not for a while.  She quallied, right?   
 Q.  Yeah.  
SAMANTHA STOSUR: So she's won three matches.  Look, no matter what, I'm going to have to play well again.  Can't take anything for granted.   
If I could get through that and be in the quarters obviously would be really pleased and really happy.  Yeah, it's always nice to I guess progress one round further than you've been able to for a long time.   
Yeah, that would mean, yeah, I guess a really good confidence boost going into the Aussie Open.  If I am in the quarters here, then try to keep going here as long as possible.   
 Q.  Do you get the sense that the tournament has become very open now?  Kvitova and Radwanska have gone.  
SAMANTHA STOSUR: Yeah, I mean, there is always opportunity.  Even when they're in the draw you like to think you got a shot against them anyway.   
If they're not in, somebody else is in their spot instead.  Everyone is eager.  Whoever is in the draw is eager to play and wants to do as best they can going into a Grand Slam.   
Look, even though they're out, it's really disappointing for the tournament to have your top two out before it even starts, but there are still plenty of good players around that you're going to have to knock off if you want to hold the trophy at the end of the week.   
 Q.  You going up to watch the Fast Four?  
SAMANTHA STOSUR: No.  I have to look after myself.   
 Q.  How are you physically?  
SAMANTHA STOSUR: No, I feel good.  Yeah, it was a long match, but right now I feel good.  Obviously I got to do all my recovery and do all the right things.   
It was really hot today, and I'm expecting the same tomorrow.  Got to be smart about what you're doing and keep drinking and recover well so you can back it up.   
 Q.  The wrist is fine?  
SAMANTHA STOSUR: Yeah, felt good out there.  Still obviously do some physio and treatment and ice and all the things I need to do to keep going regardless, but touch wood it felt good and will tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT