BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY SUNCORP
January 5, 2016
Samantha Stosur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
C. SUAREZ NAVARRO/S. Stosur   
6-1, 6-7, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  So close.  
SAMANTHA STOSUR: Yeah, ended up being a really good match.  Obviously the start wasn't so good, but, yeah, I thought I started playing really well.   
And especially the third, towards the end of the second and the third set we were both playing very good tennis.  Yeah, there is I guess nothing to be ashamed of in that for sure.   
 Q.  You were down 4-1 and all of a sudden things started to open up.  Was there a point that started it for you?  
SAMANTHA STOSUR: Not necessarily one point, but I feel like up until that point I was just making too many neutral errors.  I would kind of hit a good first ball and then let her off the hook with an error straightaway.   
Wasn't trying to go for a massive winner when I shouldn't have been, it's just I need to be this much further inside the lines.   
That started happening, and then you're making more balls, putting her under a bit more pressure, and all of a sudden I'm taking the court, I'm inside the baseline, I'm able to step in and hit winners.   
And then for a good chunk of that match it was really automatic.  It was serve, bang, move forward, winner, and that's exactly what you want to feel like.  Obviously I need to rectify the start, but at least, again, I was able to turn it around and then play some, yeah, really good tennis that I am really happy with.   
 Q.  No ill affects of your wrist?  
SAMANTHA STOSUR: I had all sorts of taping under my wristband.  But, no, thankfully it was good when I was out there.  It was a little bit sore on certain shots, but overall it was pretty good.  It's a bit stiff now, but I guess I've got days now to take care of it of.   
Hopefully, considering I was able to go out there and play the way I did, it's not going to be too crazy.   
 Q.  What sort of treatment you have to do have to make it fully recovered?  
SAMANTHA STOSUR: I don't know.  (Laughter.)  Got to ask the physio.  I think it's one of those things that's probably more inflammation at the moment that's giving me the problem.   
So, you know I think probably just time and hopefully not putting it under too much stress.  After tomorrow morning I'll kind of reassess and I guess put together a bit of a plan as far as my training up until my first round in Sydney.   
We'll know more tomorrow morning.   
 Q.  What's the actual diagnosis today?  
SAMANTHA STOSUR: Haven't had a scan or anything yet, so at the moment we just think it's, like I said, inflammation, maybe the tendon.  But I didn't hit any particular shot yesterday where I went, Ow, so I think that's a good sign that I haven't done something acutely.   
Yeah, know more in the morning.   
 Q.  So you'll have a scan tomorrow?  
SAMANTHA STOSUR: Yeah.  I am going to.  Yeah.   
 Q.  Four and a half hours of tennis.  You feel as though you played three or four matches, not just two?  Is that a good quantity of time?  
SAMANTHA STOSUR: Yeah, it's a great amount of time.  It's good to I guess test yourself physically with a couple of long matches back to back.  I feel fine.  That's good thing.   
Yeah, it's exactly what you want.  Obviously more matches would be better, but at least it's been a good amount of time and really competitive matches that you can, yeah, feel like I've started the year well.   
 Q.  How were you feeling when it looked like it may be over real fast, this being the first tournament of the year, home event?  Was any part of that dread, I guess?  
SAMANTHA STOSUR: I mean, I guess you don't want to be thinking like that, so when you're out there -- even yesterday I wasn't in a good position at the start of the match and even in the third.  But I guess if you do have any of those kind of thoughts you've got to get rid of those really quickly if you're going to have a chance to turn it around.   
I think that's obviously what I did.  I know 3-Love down in the third set is not a good spot to be in.  Today a set and 4-1 is not good.  Okay, what am I going to do to try and change things?   
I think the more you can keep your mind on what's ahead of you the better chance you've got of changing things.   
Of course things like that always creep into your head, but you've got to be able to handle that.  Today I was able to do that quite well.   
 Q.  Couple big names pulled out.  Feel it might be a bit of a missed opportunity?  Might have been a chance to have a confidence-boosting tournament before the first Grand Slam.  
SAMANTHA STOSUR: That's one of those things.  To be honest with you, I don't know who or if either of them were in my part of the draw.  There are still many good players out there who are going to be playing well that you have to beat regardless.   
It's really unfortunate for the tournament to lose both of them, especially on the same day before they even hit a ball.  I feel for the tournament, for Cam.   
But, yeah, there is still a bunch of really excellent players who are going to I guess each day getting better and better with their form.  There are still going to be some good matches ahead.   
 Q.  What do you hope to take out of Sydney next week?  
SAMANTHA STOSUR: Well, hopefully play well again.  Kind of pick up from where I played today.  I feel like I played better today than yesterday, so that's a good thing.   
Again, remain competitive and be trying to make all these things that I've been working on automatic and not have it be like the start of the year.   
So there are things that I'm really happy with.  There are still like at start of the match, like the loose errors, I've got to tidy those up.  My serve wasn't working at the start of the match.  I've got to change things like that a lot earlier.   
I guess that's where playing the best players in the world you have to change things quickly.  I'll be looking at Sydney to try and play as many matches as possible and be in good form.   
 Q.  How does Ken Rosewall Arena play compared to Pat Rafter?  
SAMANTHA STOSUR: Here is different to anywhere else during the summer simply because of the roof.  And then even the humidity here in Brisbane, I mean, I've hitting in Sydney and Melbourne the last four or five weeks, and never once has it been as heavy as what it's been here the last two days.  I guess given the weather, too, that makes it even more so.   
Yeah, look, there are all really nice courts to play on.  Just here it is probably a little bit heavier.  If anything, it's more the balls that change than the surface.  The surface is the same obviously.  The balls really change depending on the weather.   
 Q.  Bit of an odd question:  You were the person before last year who had beaten Serena in New York most recently.  Did you see in Vinci's win over her?  
SAMANTHA STOSUR: I saw a few highlights.  I don't have pay TV at home so I didn't see it.  Then I woke up and saw the score and then YouTubed a few points.  It was obviously a big surprise.   
 Q.  What was your reaction when you saw the score?  
SAMANTHA STOSUR: What happened?  Like what did Roberta do to make that happen?  The bits that I saw in those highlights, you kind of --  she played the way she plays, which is never easy and tricky.   
I think Serena looked like she was pretty nervous and uptight.  When you have to make everything happen yourself with pace and all that and you're feeling pretty tight and nervous, it wasn't easy.   
I think Roberta, that's the way she likes to play anyway.  In that moment, it obviously worked as best as it can.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT