WIMBLEDON
July 3, 2015
Samantha Stosur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. VANDEWEGHE/S. Stosur
  6‑2, 6‑0 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You were pretty annoyed after that loss to Maria in Paris.   Are you crankier today?  
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Yeah, I'm not sure which one I'm more angry at, to be honest.   It was a bit of a shocker again, obviously.   
Yeah, it's a very similar scenario, actually.   I come in playing two really good matches and feeling good about things, and then thrown in a match like that where you'd rather forget it.  
   
 Q.   You spoke it us earlier this week and explained how you felt more relaxed and things felt a little bit different.   Was it more like a revisitation of the demons coming back, 2 and Love?  
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Yeah, I don't know.   It was fine.   She practically gave me her first service game, but I started well with my service game.   Yeah, got 2‑Love up and had a couple of game points.   
But all of a sudden got a bit shaky and lost serve.   Change of end, you still kind of think, okay, 2‑1, it's okay, you're back on serve, no big deal.  
But, yeah, things just kind of went from that to worse very quickly.   Yeah, it really got away fast.   So I don't know.   It's just a bad day.  
   
 Q.   Were you nervous?   Was it nerves?  
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   No.   I mean, initially the first two games, no, I felt great.   It wasn't anything to do with that.   And then I missed a couple of forehands, and, yeah, probably got a little bit tight on some of those.  
Then it probably was a bit of nerves and then trying to, you know, get things back and be ‑‑I knew exactly what I had to do and kept telling myself what to do but wasn't able to follow through with that and actually turn it into action.  
   
 Q.   How do you feel now?   
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Annoyed, basically.   I mean, there is only so much you can say about something like that.   It's kind of ‑‑ it's bad tennis.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel you threw away your game today?   Not that she won but that you...  
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   She played fine.   She hit the ball in more times than me.   I gave her lots of errors and lots of free points.  
Yeah.   Again, like I said, there is not much I think to that match to necessarily dissect and think at this point in time you did this wrong or that wrong.  
It's ‑‑yeah.   I don't know.   
   
 Q.   Was there a point where you realized that the game was gone?   Did you feel you could regroup after the first set?  
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Yeah, after the first set, for sure, I still felt like I could, you know, come out with a chance.   There's always‑‑ you know, especially with the way that she plays, there is a chance that she will throw in another bad service game if you put a little bit of pressure on her, just like she did in the start of the match.   And, I mean, with my kind of serve, you'd like to think you're going to hold serve, as well.   
Yeah, after the first set I still felt like there was, you know, still a chance that I was able to at least feel like you could really get into the match.   Who knows whether you're gonna win, but you certainly come out after the change of ends and think, all right, this is what I want to do and try and do it.  
   
 Q.   When your serve started to let you down, you had five double faults.   On the fifth one I think you chucked your racquet back to the kit bag.   Didn't seem like anything was going right?   
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   It was capitulation.   It was one thing and it snowballed into everything.  
Yeah, I mean, that's what's kind of frustrating and annoying, because it's not like there was just one thing going.   By the end, 2 and 0 loss, I think there's going to be a few things that aren't really going your way.  
   
 Q.   There was one particularly vocal fan in the crowd.   Did you hear her?  
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Yeah, yeah.  
   
 Q.   Was that helpful or distracting?   She was told to shut up by the umpire.   
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Yeah, look, she maybe had a bit too much to drink and I had a bit of a chuckle and laugh.   At that point in time, what else can you do?   Maybe if things were a bit closer, you can try and, you know, use that to relax yourself a little bit.  
Yeah, I think she just maybe had a bit too much.  
   
 Q.   At this stage, can you forecast who will go all the way to the finals?  
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Oh, I don't know.   It's still very early to say who's going to go through and win.  
   
 Q.   Who do you think is playing really well?  
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Probably Kvitova.   I think she's probably the one in form at the moment.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT