APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 12, 2015
Samantha Stosur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. STOSUR/L. Safarova
  7‑6, 5‑7, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How pleased are you given the conditions and how hard you had to fight?
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Obviously very pleased and very happy with that result.   It was really tough out there.   The stop/ start kind of spinning rain and the wind was really tricky out there.   It wasn't like a constant breeze.   It was going all different directions.
You know, mix that with a very quality opponent down the other end, and it was certainly a really tough match today.   Yeah, very happy to get through that one.

Q.   You didn't have the best three‑set record against her.   What turned it around?
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Yeah, I guess Simon brought a couple different ideas to the table.   We spoke about that.   I have lost ‑ probably counted up ‑ I think it was the last six or seven times. 
Even though a lot of those have been very close, obviously thought I should try something different to try and get the win and kind change what I was trying to do on return a little bit and maybe serve. 
But at the of the end day, it was more about going out there and trying to compete as hard as I can and play aggressive and do the things that I do well more so than any real major tactical change or anything like that.

Q.   Given that you lost last week in Brisbane in the first round, is a match that the kind you need going into next week?
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Look, I'll take any matches I can get.   That's a really tough one.   I think every match here, you can't think that any of them will be too easy. 
So to come out there and, yeah, play a tough match, you're down a couple of set points and then lose the second set, and have a couple really tricky moments in that third, especially given what happened least week, to come through that today and really turn the tables on that was, yeah, very pleasing. 

Q.   Is the victory a little bit more significant in a way given the opponent, the venue, the way you were up in the third set again?   Was it more cathartic, a confidence booster, to win in the manner you did today?
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   I think more so than any of that, just trying to turn the tables on someone who you haven't had a great record recently.
Like I said, even though it's been super close, there has only been a couple points in those matches, to then be able to turn that around.   So I try thought and think last week while I'm out there and all that kind of thing. 
But I think just more so the fact that I was able to get out there and get the break late in the third and serve it out in a really good game.   Regardless of anything that's happened, that's always a great feeling. 

Q.   Were there any thoughts going through your head as you stepped up to the line to serve the last ace? 
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   I had a couple things going through my mind.   Probably really can't repeat them.   I wanted to step up and be aggressive and use my weapon.   Yeah, that's my serve.   Probably first set served well; second set my percentage dropped a fair bit; and then in that third set I felt like it really got me out of trouble in some of those tricky moments. 
You know, Love‑40, that game at 2‑All I think it was, and then to, you know, be serving for the match.   I thought, Okay, I've got to use my strength here, and that's exactly what I was able to do.

Q.   (No microphone.)
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   It's one match.   Obviously very happy to win this match, but I'm only in the second round.   Whoever I end up playing in the next match, whether it's Woz or Barbora, again I'm going to expect another tough one.   I've had lots of good battles with Caroline; Barbora and I, I don't think, have played in a while, but she had one of her best seasons ever last year.
So I guess can enjoy this for a little bit but, yeah, be back at it tomorrow. 

Q.   (Question regarding social media.)
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   No real preference.   I haven't got as many followers yet.   Maybe if it takes over Facebook I'll like it more, but I'm still trying to get the hang of that and Instagram.   Slowly but surely I'll get into the groove. 

Q.   (Question regarding the name BamBam.)
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   The whole team was out at dinner one night.   It was one of the most funny dinners I've ever had.   We were all making up nicknames for each other, and mine somehow got to BamBam.
Then I set up a Twitter account and made it a little bit different.   So it came from a Fed Cup dinner in April.

Q.   Do you remember any of the other players' names?
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Coach ended up being Prince, and Alicia ended up Fabio.   There was some really random ‑‑ I can't actually remember them because there were so many different twists and turns as to how we got to every name.
But it was a very, very funny night. 

Q.   At this tournament every year we ask you about the attention and everything else.   Have you changed your approach to that in any way?   Are you more relaxed?
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   I guess I am probably a bit more relaxed about it this time around.   I think last year I handled it well.   To be honest, I haven't thought of or had anyone particular thing said to me that's helping.
I think it's just going through all these experiences and trying really to just embrace it.   I'm really trying to make it about what I'm trying to do on the court and play the way I want to play win or lose.
Yeah, I think it's just more about really trying to enjoy these moments and embrace everything about it.   I've loved playing in front of these crowds in Brisbane and Sydney today.   It was fantastic.

Q.   Did you do anything different with your off‑season training this year than in the past?
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   On the whole it was probably quite similar, but I wanted to try and start getting ‑‑ being able to run and do a few other things like that. 
So I guess I had a really slow progression this year.   Then in the end I was able to do a bit more movement things on my foot.
First and foremost it was about trying to be injury‑free.   That's what I was able to do.   We pretty much mixed in all the different kind of fitness and strength and all those things we usually do to make it more interesting and fun.
Yeah, I was able to do a couple other things not related to my training which also, I think, helps relax you and get your mind off things.   Then you always feel like you're ready to get things going again. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT