BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY SUNCORP
January 4, 2015
Samantha Stosur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







V. LEPCHENKO/S. Stosur
  4‑6, 6‑4, 7‑5

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How do you sum that match up? 
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Well, obviously I guess the obvious answer is disappointment.   You know, for 99% of that match I'm really happy with the way that I played and what I did.
There is lots of good things that I can take away from tonight that I feel like have been a major improvement on some of my other first rounds in Australia.
So, look, 5‑1, match point, you get yourself into that winning position there is not too much you're doing wrong.   I don't feel like I did too much wrong even from that point.   I think she played a fantastic last set from that position and absolutely went for it. 
She obviously had nothing to lose at that point in time, and tonight it all came off for her.   I don't feel like I went away.   I kept trying my guts out, and unfortunately I came out on the wrong end.

Q.   The challenge on that match point though, Sam, did that play on your mind?   You had to replay the point and you lost it. 
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   To be honest, at the exact moment it didn't.   I was pretty focused on, okay, well, it's all right.   It's still match point.   At least I got a little chance at it.   I mean, unfortunately that's the way it goes.   That's tennis. 
Obviously then maybe a couple of other moments as match goes on you kind of think back to it, but you get that out of your mind and you keep going.
Obviously it would've been nice if it wasn't called out and I had the whole open court to hit the winner in, but, again, that's tennis. 

Q.   What did Simon say to you after the second set? 
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   He just gave me three different points, one about my serve, one on my return position on the ad side, and one other thing, but really kind of simple things.   Just little reminders that I need to try and get back to that he felt like I kind of strayed a little bit. 
Tried to make those adjustments, and obviously came out in the third set playing really well again.

Q.   Did you feel like you beat yourself in that last set?
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   No.   Like I said, I feel like I did nearly everything correct.   I put myself in a position where it was obviously good enough to be in that position to win.
At 5‑1 being, okay, there were some balls coming in I didn't quite exactly get hold of it enough and maybe they should be been for winners, but ended up hitting it not close enough to the line. 
She hit the passing shot; I'm down 15‑40, break point, and then you lose serve again.   So I don't feel like I lost the match myself.   I think she played a really good match.
Again, there is obviously things you wish you could change and go back and do again, but on the whole, no, I don't.

Q.   (Question regarding regretting playing in Brisbane.)
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   No regrets there.   No, I'm happy to have played here.   Actually, again, like I said, that was the most comfortable and I feel like one of the best matches I've played to start my campaign.   I love the atmosphere out there.   The crowd was fantastic.   I would go out there and do it all over again.
Yeah, I'm disappointed to not have another chance to go out there.

Q.   Playing Sydney? 
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Yep.

Q.   People say you have mental fragility in the key points.   What do you say to that?
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   I don't necessary think that tonight was a big, you know, mental capitulation.   I mean, I don't think it was.   Obviously different people will have their opinions, and that's fine.
But I think if you were watching it and you were out there, again, like I said she played really well and really went for broke at that point in time.
Of course in hindsight you wish you could do more, but on the whole I'm happy with the way I haven't played.   I certainly don't feel as bad about what happened tonight as some of the other matches I lost from having match point or being in winning positions. 
So there are a lot of good things I can take from tonight's match.

Q.   Do you feel a lot of pressure, though?   Home crowd support.   Obviously Australian Open coming up as well. 
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Look, there is always pressure; there is always that thing going on.   I know the way I've handled it in the past, but I don't feel like that at all tonight. 
I think tonight the start of the match was really great.   The way I went out there, the way I felt, they way I tried to play my tennis and do the things that I wanted to, I'm happy with.
So, again, for 97, 98, 99% of it there is not too much that I can complain about.   If I had won that point, I win 6‑1 in the third and we would all be thinking different things and it would be happy days and be looking to the second match. 
There were such fine margins in this.   It's easy to kind of jump way down the deep end and say how bad it was.
I don't want to go down that road, because I don't think it was like that. 

Q.   Do you get straight into practice for Sydney or do you give yourself a day off? 
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   I don't know.   I didn't even want to decide where we're going to eat tonight.   Look, whether I take tomorrow off or practice, there is still obviously now quite a few days to prepare and get organized with things.
I guess we'll talk to the team and make the best plan we can to be prepared for my first round in Sydney, whatever that may be. 

Q.   On another topic, good first up win by a Ajla.   Thoughts there?
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Yeah, I mean, I watched a little bit of the match as I was having lunch.   Yeah, that first set was obviously really tight.   Once she got that, I feel like Jelena went way a bit.
But to step up and keep playing and do what she was doing, it was obviously a very good win.   Jelena had a real resurgence last year, so that's, yeah, a really good start to the year for Ajla. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT