U.S. OPEN
August 26, 2014
Samantha Stosur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  S. STOSUR/L. Davis  6-1, 6-4   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   Q.  Is that a relief or are you pleased to get through after last year's sort of disappointment?  SAMANTHA STOSUR: Oh, look, I'm pleased.  I didn't even think about last yore's match, to be honest with you.  Look, first rounds can be very tricky.  I was certainly prepared for a tough match today, but I was able to come out and play well and do exactly what I wanted to do. So that was a good feeling.   Q.  What were you most pleased with?  What do you think did you best?  SAMANTHA STOSUR: I think overall it was a pretty solid match.  I think I served well; really tactically probably used the right serve at the right time.  With the way the conditions were I was able to use my kick serve a lot and change it up and go hard. I think I was, yeah, able to make her feel uncomfortable on return, which is exactly what I want to do.   Q.  Lauren's 5'2"; Kanepi I significantly taller.  What sort of challenges does that pose in the next round?  SAMANTHA STOSUR: She's a very, look, tough opponent.  I have played some matches and I've won and lost.  She can be very dangerous.  She has a big game.  It's just whether or not she's putting it together. To be honest, I haven't seen her play much recently.  We played last year Moscow early in that tournament.  I played a good match.  I know playing Kaia you have to go out there and try and win the match because she's a dangerous player.  I have to focus really on my tennis and do what I think is going to work against her. Probably look back on those matches that we played in the past years.   Q.  5 and 5 so far for Australia; pretty good start.  SAMANTHA STOSUR: Yeah, it's fantastic.  What a good start.  Couple of the guys are on later today and tomorrow.  Yeah, look, can't get better than that so far.   Q.  What are your thoughts on the speed of the court in comparison with previous years you have been here?  SAMANTHA STOSUR: I don't think -- I mean, it is playing quite quick, I guess, at the moment, but I think a huge part of that is the weather. I practiced here for two days before today.  First day was pretty lively; yesterday really getting up there; today more so again.  I think a huge part is what the weather does. When the sun is out and it's shiny and hard, everything flies through the air and you get a lot of jump off the courts.   Q.  If you were put in charge of the sport and could change any rule about play, what one rule would you like to change or enact if you could adjust anything you want as leader of the sport?  SAMANTHA STOSUR: Oh.  Huh.  Gotta think about this.  Maybe this new 20 second rule needs to be implemented fairly for all players on all courts.   Q.  How would you go about doing that?  SAMANTHA STOSUR: Don't know.  I guess the umpires have really got to look at what's going on on every single situation.   Q.  Why do you say that?  Who is not sort of sticking to that sort of rule on court?  SAMANTHA STOSUR: Let's just say the last few slams I keep getting called for these soft warnings, and I've never been called for a time violation in my life, and I get told to hurry up while my opponent is in the back fence.  That I wasn't too pleased about in a few other matches.  There was nothing like that today, so I'm all happy.   Q.  Do you think it's feasible to display a clock so that the players, the fans, and a chair ump could see the time tick off?  SAMANTHA STOSUR: Yeah.  We actually had a meeting about that couple weeks ago.  Yeah, I don't think that would be a bad idea.  You know where you stand.  Yep, that's it.  That's what we've gotta do.   Q.  What was it like at the meeting?  What were some of the discussions?  SAMANTHA STOSUR: Yeah, I think everyone was kind of for it.  As long as it's fair.  Whatever the thing is, as long as it's the same for everyone, no matter where you are and who you're playing, I think all players would be fine with it.   Q.  So could you assess your momentum coming into the tournament?  What do you feel in terms of how you're playing coming in?  SAMANTHA STOSUR: I am feeling good.  I think the last couple of tournaments have been really encouraging for me in the way I have been playing and feeling out on court and what I have been doing.  I think the Cincy tournament, even though it was second-round loss, there was a lot I could take away from that. And then going to Connecticut last week and playing, playing well there and making semis, I think is a huge boost. Yeah, I couldn't really be pleased more with the way that I have had this leadup, and I feel like, yeah, okay, I've got enough matches under my belt and feel good about what I'm doing out there. Yeah, it's been a good leadup and I guess a good turnaround from the first couple of weeks.   Q.  Your victory here, is that something you still draw on giving you the confidence that you can go deep in the tournament?  SAMANTHA STOSUR: Yeah, sure.  I'm sure knowing that and having that -- I mean, you have the belief you can do it, but I guess you have that cemented right there.  You did do it. So it is something that you can kind of maybe draw on.  Obviously it's a new year and you've got to win each of those matches back to back each day, but I guess just knowing in the back of your head, yes, you have achieved that. You have been able to play really well and consistently for those couple weeks and get through the matches that you need to.  Yes, it is something can you draw on throughout the tournament maybe if you're in a tricky situation.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT