ROLAND GARROS
June 1, 2014
Samantha Stosur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. SHARAPOVA/S. Stosur
      3‑6, 6‑4, 6‑0

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please. 

Q.   Sam, what you do you take from a match like that today going forward?
    SAMANTHA STOSUR:   I was a set all, 40‑all, and missed a return in the top of the tape.   I mean, I was right there to win it.
    I knew that I was in a great position to, like I said, go through that match.   And, yeah, from that moment, then things kind of got a little bit hairy.
    Yeah, actually can't believe from that moment I didn't win another game.   How quickly things can turn. 
    Even the third set I didn't feel like I played a bad set.   It's a tough one.

Q.   What had you done in the leadup knowing you had that record against her to get yourself to that level where you were taking it to her?
    SAMANTHA STOSUR:   I thought about the match a few weeks ago in Madrid and definitely changed a few things up from there.   It definitely worked.   I can't say I went out there with a wrong idea of what I should be doing. 
    Like I said, I don't think I did much wrong.   It was just one of those things.   You miss a ball, she hits a good serve next one, play a sloppy game, and all of a sudden you're even and she runs away with it.
    Yeah, it's tennis sometimes.

Q.   Was it something you thought that changed on your end or she was upping her level drastically?
    SAMANTHA STOSUR:   From the start of the third set she‑‑ however she did it‑‑ managed to find another level.   I mean, I think she really started playing more aggressive.   And all those areas I was getting off, you know, my balls that I was putting her in those positions.
    They all of a sudden dried up and she was really dictating play.   Yeah, she just kind of‑‑ as soon as you open that door a little bit, then she, I mean, she's can easily run away with matches. 
    I think that's kind of what happened.   I don't necessarily feel like the start of that third set I, you know, played terrible.   I was trying to push and doing the things I was doing to keep putting myself in that position. 
    But like I said, I think she started to really tighten up those areas and then play a lot better.

Q.   Obviously a great player, especially on this surface.   When you say you're doing well, what's it feel like when at she starts doing four, five, up to eight games in a row for her and you can't stop it?
    SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Yeah, it's not a good feeling.   Yeah, it's rough, because you know that you've been‑‑ well, I thought that I was pretty dominant for a lot of the match, and then all of a sudden things turned.   Yeah, you're not close.   You're a set all, 3‑Love down, and you were so close before.
    Yeah, it's hard to be out there and, you know, keep strong.   I mean, I did everything I could.   So it's not great.

Q.   Given how much carnage there was in this draw, you have to be a little frustrated you were in a section where the top seed still held up with Maria. 
    SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Yeah, that's just the way it is.   You can't do anything about the draw.   It's what happens.   Yeah, that's just the way... 

Q.   In a few weeks' time you'll look on this more as an opportunity lost, given the draw ands everything, or will you take the positives, the fact that you were able to sort of regain some of your best form?
    SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Look, I know it was an opportunity lost.   Like I said, I thought I was there to win that match.   Definitely playing well enough to do so.   I know that's an opportunity I'm not going to get again. 
    But, look, on the flip side, I know I had a good tournament.   I played well here.   Probably some of the best tennis I have played for quite a few months. 
    So it's something that I'm definitely very happy about.   Something that I'm going to build on. 
    But, yeah, I know that this week was a week where maybe, you know, I could have done a bit better.

Q.   Anything concrete as to what clicked in your form?   Just a case of getting your confidence back or something like that?
    SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Yeah, I think it's a combination of that, and, you know, the things that I probably talked about in previous days.   I think it's a matter of using my game the way that I know I can play and using my big shots and, you know, going after it and playing aggressive and not being passive. 
    I've got to take my game to my opponents.   I think that's definitely something I have done for probably 95% of the time this week. 

Q.   Of all the times that you've played her, has she ever been as antsy as she was in the match today with the amount that she screamed, putting aside the grunting and getting vocally aggressive and all that?
    SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Yeah, I don't know.   Probably not.   I mean, again, I knew that I had her worried.   I knew she wasn't feeling comfortable out there.   I guess that's the way she shows it or handles it, whatever.   Whatever you want to say about it.
    But, yeah, I guess it proves that she was certainly in a position she didn't want to be in. 

Q.   Just looking ahead to the grass, how do you feel about approaching that?   Obviously some good stuff to build on from last year at Wimbledon. 
    SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Yeah, I think last year was probably my best Wimbledon so far, so that's got to be something that I can, I guess, keep in the front of my mind and think, Okay, yeah, I'm feeling a lot more comfortable on that surface.
    But, yeah, it's gonna be I'm sure a couple of tough weeks.   It's always rough at the beginning until you find your rhythm and your footing and everything else. 
    But I think it's a time where, yeah, I'm feeling good with the way that I'm playing.   So it's a matter of trying to build on that and do it again on another surface that I don't necessarily feel as comfortable on.

Q.   Plans?   Eastbourne again?
    SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Yep.

Q.   When she's, you know, screaming and pumping both fists after winning a point, when you're standing there, what goes through your mind?   Obviously you just lost the point, but in terms of the reaction, because it's unusual. 
    SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Yeah, probably that she knew that it was a big point or‑‑ I don't know.   It's what it is. 

Q.   Looking at Wimbledon, obviously you make changes for the grass.   Is there stuff that you can take that you have had off the court here that translates well going there, the stuff that you've been talking about, you know, everything clicking, being able to execute what you do well?   Is it as simple as just transporting that over to the UK?
    SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Yeah, I guess it is.   I mean, I know that, you know, high, heavy ball that I like to get under on my forehand isn't as easy to do or as effective on that surface, so there is ‑‑I mean, there is definitely little things that I've got to do. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT