ROLAND GARROS
May 28, 2014
Samantha Stosur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. STOSUR/Y. Meusburger
      6‑1, 6‑3

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please. 

Q.   That looked pretty clinical out there.   Everything go pretty much according to plan?
    SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Yeah, I was really happy again with today's match, especially the first four or five games.   I was totally in control and kind of feeling like I'm going to hit it here, I'm going do that, and, yeah, was able to really dictate play and do what I wanted to.
    Second set for sure picked up her game.   I think she started trying out some high balls at the beginning and then she started stepping in and taking some more balls down the line.   Certainly made it tougher for me in the second set.
    Overall really happy with the way I played.

Q.   Cibulkova next.   You've got weapons that work well against her and have a very good record.   Does that fill you with confidence, or is there a danger that she's now going to be out to get you sort of thing?
    SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Oh, I think it's a bit of both.   For sure I'm going to be confident going into that match, and I know what's worked in the past and what I will have to do. 
    Obviously I know what's worked in the past, but there is no doubt‑‑ I know when I've never beaten somebody you certainly go out there wanting to win.   If you have lost, what, four matches or whatever, maybe it's time to try something different. 
    So I will certainly have to be aware of what she's going to come out and try and do and really be smart at the start.
    Again, I'm going to go out there and think about my tennis and do what I know she feels uncomfortable with.

Q.   This is probably a little bit bigger picture, but with Serena going out your section of the draw that has blown a little bit further open.   How do you feel about that?
    SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Yeah, it was a big upset.   I played Muguruza a couple weeks ago in Spain and I think she's a very good player and I think she will continue to improve.   She obviously played very, very well today. 
    Yeah, a little bit of an open section there, but I think I still had at least two rounds before I was ever going to maybe reach Serena anyway.   You know, it is what it is.   It's obviously a huge win for her. 
    That section is open now.   I don't think it really affects me just yet.

Q.   You looked really sharp and focused in the first set there.   Tell us about your mindset at the moment and how you feel about the week in general. 
    SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Yeah, I'm feeling good out on the court.   Feel very comfortable.   Feel like I'm playing the way that I should play, can play. 
    Yeah, again, today I was able to really dictate and did exactly what I wanted to do.   I felt like I had enough time on the ball to kind of, okay, this is what I want to do.   I want to get out there and then I want to go there.   I was trying to move forward and take balls early.
    Yeah, just be in control.   So that's definitely a good feeling when you're out there.

Q.   You mentioned Cibulkova.   I think you last played her a few weeks ago on clay courts.   Does that give you some sort of little mental boost, a mental edge?
    SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Yeah, we played in Madrid the same week I played Muguruza.   It's fairly fresh I'm sure in both of our minds after ‑‑ I mean, I got off to a pretty bad start.   I was 4‑Love down and then I won 4‑0, so I was really able to turn things around, which was a huge confidence boost on that day.
    I'll certainly know that I was able to do that.   I know she's going to be able to come out and play very good tennis.   She's having a good year.   I know what she's capable of.
    I guess it's matter of me not allowing her to play the way she likes to. 

Q.   And how is the leg?   Healing well?   No problems?
    SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Yeah, fine.   No problems.   I don't feel it on the court.   Just got to keep being smart with it and keep it clean.   (Smiling.)

Q.   You were talking to the umpire midway through the second set.   You looked at him and, Is that my warning or what?   What was that about?
    SAMANTHA STOSUR:   I don't really actually know if he gave me a warning or didn't for time.   Needless to say, I wasn't too happy about it at 6‑1, 4‑1.   I don't feel like he needed to get so involved at that point.   I was just checking whether I had a warning or not.

Q.   And you still don't know?
    SAMANTHA STOSUR:   He didn't give me a proper warning.   That was like my pre‑warning to the warning, if that makes any sense. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT