AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 13, 2014
Samantha Stosur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. STOSUR/K. Zakopalova
  6‑3, 6‑4
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 
Q.   Was there any major adjustment made in the last 72 hours or a totally different ballgame?
  SAMANTHA STOSUR:   No, I mean nothing major.   You know, obviously I played that match in Hobart and went down in straight sets.   But the last three times we played I had good success. 
  I kind of knew what I wanted to do.   I don't think there was anything major that I had to change.   Obviously I tried to return a little better today, I thought I served better, all around didn't give her so many free points. 
  Little things, but not anything we had to go out and spend hours on court trying to think about. 
Q.   You looked far more patient in the points. 
  SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Yeah, absolutely.   That was a big part of going into today's match.   I knew she was going to hit some winners, she was going to play some really good points.   I also knew if I didn't have a shot and I kind of stayed in there, used my slice, I didn't think she liked too much in Hobart, then I was going to be able to get myself back in the point even if I was down. 
  Like I said, she was getting some winners, but I also had to think I was going to be able to hang in there as well until I got an opportunity to try and hit a winner or do something I really wanted to do. 
Q.   The conditions suited you a bit more today?
  SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Yeah, the ball was definitely flying around.   It was pretty hot out on court.   You get that response from the court and balls when it's hot and the sun is shining.   I was jumping and using my spin and all that whenever I was able to, so that was nice.
Q.   How big was the ninth game to maintain the momentum?
  SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Yeah, it was definitely a big game.   From 4‑1 down, obviously I got that momentum to get those next three games, then serving at 4, you have to think, Okay, you got that momentum, you want to hang onto it, play a really good game.   If she's going to break, she's going to have to hit some winners. 
  It was pretty long.   Thankfully I was able to serve well at the right times.   I knew it was important.   I wasn't going to try to do anything silly.   Play smart, and thankfully I got through that one.
Q.   Mentally what does that do for you, to get one done?
  SAMANTHA STOSUR:   It's a really good feeling, obviously.   The first hurdle is quite often the hardest.   To come out and play, play a pretty decent match, I'm very pleased obviously.   A bit of a relief there as well.   Very happy to get through and obviously rectify what happened a few days ago is also very pleasing. 
  First one's down.   Doesn't mean I'm looking further ahead.   I have to focus on this next match and take my second round just as seriously, just as importantly.   That's what I'll do. 
Q.   You don't often admonish yourself.   You yelled at yourself, Stop pushing the ball.   Do you remember that?
  SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Yeah.   Sometimes you've got to let some frustration out.   I did feel like at times throughout that period I was kind of just putting it back in there.   Even though I needed to be patient, you got to still be looking to have some intent with it.   I felt like I'd kind of got away from that for those few points a couple of games.   She was able to dictate and do what she wanted to do. 
  Yeah, sometimes you just got to tell myself what to do.   If it comes out a bit loud, so be it (smiling). 
Q.   Early days.   How is it going with Miles?   Tinkering going on?
  SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Not necessarily.   Nothing really technical or anything like that.   I guess there's always little things that you can focus on.   That's kind of what the focus has been.   I think I said the other day, I think as I play more matches, then it becomes a little bit easier probably to try and make some, you know, different changes or tactical changes or anything like that. 
  I think I'm still trying to play my tennis and go out there and play the way I want to play.   Obviously with these little things in the back of my mind, I know that we've been talking about and trying to work on.   So it's good. 
Q.   Those little things will remain secret?
  SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Yeah, I won't tell anyone just yet (smiling).
Q.   How much did the crowd come into it for you?
  SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Yeah, it was a great crowd.   I definitely felt all the support out there, which is a great feeling.   I know that, yeah, they were getting behind me.   When you are down in a set like I was, then you start creeping back, then you get back, that's obviously when they get really excited and they really start trying to help you over the line, get behind you even more. 
  It's even good.   Even in some tight moments, they yell out something funny.   Makes you have a bit of a laugh, relax a little bit.   So, yeah, it's fun playing out there.
Q.   Talk about your possible next opponents, especially Pironkova. 
  SAMANTHA STOSUR:   I didn't see any of the Sydney tournament.   But to go through quallies and win a tournament as tough as what Sydney was, she must be playing very well.   I kind of know her game a little bit.   We played each other in the Tournament of Champions, the last one of the year actually.   I played her there. 
  I mean, completely different circumstances.   Court was indoor, very slow, gritty court in Sofia.   If I end up playing her, it's going to be a different ballgame.   I know what to expect a little bit, but she must be in pretty decent form to have gone through and have won Sydney.
Q.   Pretty impressive heat over the next couple days.   Does that play to your advantage?
  SAMANTHA STOSUR:   I don't usually struggle in the heat.   So that's fine.   I practiced here through December.   There was some pretty hot days in Sydney.   Got through those all right. 
  Tournament play is always that little bit different.   If you do all the right things, try to stay hydrated, look after yourself, hopefully by the time you get out on court, you won't have any problem.   Touch wood, that will be the same for me. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT