SHISEIDO WTA FINALS SHENZHEN
October 26, 2019
Samantha Stosur
Zhang Shuai
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What does it mean for you to reach the WTA Finals as a team for the first time?  
SAMANTHA STOSUR: Exciting. Obviously we started the year off very well in Australia, won the title there. That just really set our year off in a really good way.   
Yeah, we decided at the end of last year to commit to playing together for this entire year. To now be rewarded with a chance in the Finals is, yeah, really something great for us. We're really enjoying the experience.   
Shuai's first time. Great to be here in Shenzhen.   
 Q.  Shuai, how much does it mean to make the WTA Finals and have it be here in your home country?  
ZHANG SHUAI: (Through interpretation.) I'm very happy about that because this is the first time for China to hold the WTA Finals. I'm able to get in to participate in this huge event. From the January event, when we win the Australian Open title, we've been looking forward about coming to Shenzhen.   
We put a lot of effort, for example, we play much more doubles matches. I'm just very happy to be able to come to Shenzhen.   
 Q.  Sam, how much does it mean to you to be at a Finals, a couple years since the last time?  
SAMANTHA STOSUR: More than a couple (laughter).   
Yeah, I mean, I made it in singles and doubles in the past. Always I had great experiences, really good results. To make it again this far down the track in my career, it's something I'm very proud of.   
Yeah, it's a nice experience. I'm really happy that I can make it back here.   
 Q.  Sam, how do you think your partnership with Shuai has evolved over the season?  
SAMANTHA STOSUR: I think the Australian Open, something just clicked for us there. We had a very good result in the US Open the year before.   
Like I said, then we decided we would definitely play this year together as a proper partnership, really kind of make it a goal to try and get here. Winning the Australian Open obviously helped us do that and get off to a really good start. I think as the year's gone on, we've actually done a lot of things to keep improving and keep practicing.   
Yeah, it's been a good year for us. We're trying to get even better. Hopefully all this practice we've been having, further results throughout the year, can set us up very well for tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT