SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA OPEN
August 2, 2013
Samantha Stosur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. STOSUR/A. Radwanska
  7‑5, 2‑6, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Congratulations.   
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Thank you.   
   
 Q.   Coming in as a wildcard, what does it feel to beat No.4 in the world?   
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Yeah, I mean, obviously very happy with today's win.   I guess to come to a tournament where you weren't expecting to play and decide kind of last minute and have the opportunity with being given the wildcard is fantastic to have really made the most of that opportunity and now be in the semis.   
   
 Q.   I have another question.   This was your fifth three‑set match this year.   
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Okay.   
   
 Q.   They were all tough, tough, tough.   You had a hard time against Lisicki, Jankovic, Zheng, and Azarenka today it clicked and worked.   How come?   What happened today?  
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Oh, look.   Certainly didn't even realize I played that many three‑setters and lost all of them so far this year.   I think it's just good to be able to fight back from losing that second set and get back to playing the way you were in the first set and then just dig deep and try and get through.  
I have played a lot of three‑set matches in my career.   Sometimes you win the really close ones; sometimes you lose them.   I think it's important to stay in the moment and not worry about some of the missed opportunities in previous matches and just play each point as it comes right there in the current match.   
   
 Q.   Which is for me doubly interesting because you play such a risky game.   
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   I guess in some ways I do play risky because I do play aggressive and I like to go for winners and hit the ball big and whatever else.  
But I think when I'm playing well and my best, it's actually not so risky because I play with a lot of spin.   I feel like I can have good margins, and then a lot of it is about the shot selection and what I should be doing rather than playing aggressive is too risky.  
So I can understand people thinking that, and I see that as well.   But I think when I am playing my best, that's how I play.  
   
 Q.   Well.   The audience loves it when you play risky and aggressive, no doubt about it.   
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Yeah, I think today we had two very contrasting styles.   I was going for it and Aggie makes you work really hard and gets every single ball back.   You know, she's had great success playing that way as well.  
I guess that's the beauty of tennis.   You can have lots of different game styles.  
   
 Q.   What's tomorrow like?  
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Tomorrow is going to be tough again.   I have had some really tough matches with Virginie.   She's a player who has had some unbelievable wins in her career and got her ranking right up and then seems to fall away again and disappears for a little while and then you see her back on tour.  
Obviously she had a wildcard into this tournament as well, so she's having a great week.   Certainly have to be aware of the way that she plays, because if she is on, she is definitely tough.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT