WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2013
Samantha Stosur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. STOSUR/O. Puchkova
  6‑2, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   I imagine you would be pretty pleased with that in nearly every way.  
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Yeah, very pleased with the way I especially started the match and got off to a good start.   Yeah, I thought I returned very well; when I had an opportunity, take a ball and move forward.   Even though I didn't hit too many volleys, the intention to move forward and play aggressive was there.   
Overall, very pleased.   
   
 Q.   You said the other day you rehearsed a few things playing against a qualifier.   Was that more like your classic game today?   
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Yeah, I guess so.   Maybe a little bit.   But, again, you just go out there and play how you believe you can and maybe what you should be doing, and hopefully that makes you progress through the rounds.  
Then you get a little bit under pressure at whatever point, and you still stick to your guns and do what you should be doing.   If you get through, then the further you go that should kind of help.  
   
 Q.   I know it's only two rounds in, but you look like you're feeling more comfortable on grass here than maybe ever before.   
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Yeah, I think that's a pretty accurate statement.   I'm feeling pretty good and really pleased with those couple matches.   And my whole preparation the whole time I've been on the grass, I feel it's been better.   So doing everything I can.   
This next match is gonna be very tough.   Certainly giving myself the best opportunity to try and do well.  
   
 Q.   Is there anything you think you've learned about the grass that you didn't know in past years?   
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   I don't think there is anything I didn't know.   Just had a better mindset and maybe kind of got to me.   
So probably, again, I think a big part of it was finishing the French, taking care of that, getting away from that, and not bringing anything, good or bad, indifferent, onto here.  
Kind of really started fresh, and that's probably been one the biggest differences.   
   
 Q.   Do you think having a little bit earlier exit in Paris gave you more time to get used to this, or is it more mental?   
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   I think it's more a mental thing.   Certainly never going to choose to do not so well in Paris to have a better mindset here.   
But I think in previous years especially a couple of my losses there were really hard for me to take.   I probably didn't quite maybe get over those as quickly as I needed to.   
Then I came here on the grass and found it more difficult and then everything just kind of snowballed.  
So I don't feel like I've allowed that to happen this time.  
   
 Q.   What are some of the little things you're doing better on grass this time?   What are the secrets?  
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   I think I've been mixing up my serve well and really trying to go for it.   Mixing it up, placement, spin, something like that, and trying to flatten out my forehand a bit more and really trying to stay on the baseline and be moving forward.  
I think it's easy for me to try and play like I'm on clay still or even on a hard court where you try and hit with lots of spin and it doesn't really so much on this surface.   
So this time ‑ not that I've ever not tried to do that ‑ but I've probably just been doing it a bit better.  
   
 Q.   Obviously Lisicki will be different than the first two matches.   What sort of adjustments do you make to play her?   
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Well, yeah, I think she's going to have a much bigger serve than the last two players that I've played.   She really plays aggressive and, you know, power, power, power really.   
So certainly have to try and combat that.   I think a big part of match is gonna be serving.   We both have got a big serve and are both going to be going for it.   So I think that's going to be a huge thing, of who does that better.   
And then whoever can maybe make as many returns in play as possible.   Even if they're not so great, you know, you try and make them play that other ball.  
I think a lot is going to come down to the serve.  
   
 Q.   People look at your game, the big serve and the big forehand, which are normally things that translate to grass.   Lisicki has done well on grass with those same basic weapons.   This is only your second time into the third round at Wimbledon in like 11 tries.   What's the difference between her success here and yours?   Is it about the spin?   
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Kind of probably what I was saying before.   I think that was a big part of it.   My initial mindset of playing on this surface and maybe all those years of not doing quite so well kind of got to me.  
For whatever reason, it's been better this year.   Just happy that I've been able to change something at least and put myself back into the third round, which is a position that's nice to be in.  
   
 Q.   So one good year here ‑ even though it's just third round ‑ sort of make you snap back into being okay with the surface for the rest of your career?  
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   I love it now, so it's all going well.   No, I mean, I've got no complaints and no anything.   I've really enjoyed playing on it.   Kind of makes me think, What was I doing for all that time?   
Whatever happens now, like I said, I feel like I've given myself a good opportunity to try and play well and get to this point.   
   
 Q.   About the courts, the was a bit of carnage yesterday, and some of the players thought the courts were different from other years.   Have you noticed anything different?   
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   I don't know.   When I first practiced I had a thought maybe the grass was a little bit longer.   But I feel like the ball is maybe getting up a little bit here.   Maybe the grass is longer.   I don't know.  
It's funny.   Obviously I've seen everyone slipping over, the people that have and whatnot, but I haven't slipped once ‑ touch wood.   I feel like I've been moving well and haven't had any problems out there.   
I don't know.   Maybe it's just a big coincidence that everything kind of happened yesterday.  
   
 Q.   If the ball is getting up here, does that mean it might help your game a little bit?  
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Maybe.   I feel like I've had enough time on the ball.   I haven't been too rushed.   I guess the couple girls I've played haven't been the hardest hitters out here as well.   That helps.  
Playing Sabine is going to be a lot different.   She hits the ball just as hard as anyone out there, some of the really top girls.   So I guess I'll find out if any of that is different in my next round.  
   
 Q.   Would it be accurate to say you're playing more aggressively this year?  
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   I feel like overall it's more aggressive and probably just have a better idea of what I'm trying to do and I'm not panicking to try and be out of my comfortable zone, trying to get to the net, and do all that.  
It's I feel like it's something that I need to do, but I'm not rushing the fact.   If it's there, if you can do it, great.   If not, you stay in the point and work it a bit more.   
But I feel like I'm taking those shorter balls and probably doing a bit more with them this time.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT