BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 9, 2013
Samantha Stosur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. STOSUR/M. Keys
  6‑3, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   What's your take on her game?  
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Look, I think she's got a big game.   Obviously her forehand is massive.   She's got a very big serve.  
You know, she's got pretty decent kick serve for a second serve.   You know, she handled a lot of my slice actually quite well sometimes.  
I think she's got a big game.   She's just got to, you know, put all the pieces together.   I think I said to somebody earlier, She's only 18.   I had lots of pieces like that when I was 18 and wasn't as together as probably what she is now.  
I think she's got a lot of potential.   There is obviously things you need to improve, but she has those big weapons that, you know, win these big matches.  
   
 Q.   You have played against a bunch of the young Americans; played against Sloane and now her.   Obviously you're in the U.S. Wondering which one is going to be...   Do you sense of the young American crop how they're coming along and which one is maybe ahead and I guess what's the sense of that group in the locker room?  
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Yeah, I think obviously Sloane has made that first kind of big push to be, what is she now, top 20 and had a very good result in Australia.   No, she's a little bit similar.   I think she's got a big serve and a big forehand, so I guess in some ways Sloane and Madison are similar in that respect.  
Then you've got Jamie who plays a little bit different to those two, but she has been on the verge of having some big wins.   And McHale who has kind of hovered around that 30, 40 mark I think for quite a while.  
So I think there is a lot to kind of pick from.   It's just who's going to keep making that step forward.   Hopefully with such a big group of them, they can always push each other along.   Nobody wants to get left behind.   I think that can only help them all.  
   
 Q.   Seems like you got pretty good crowd support today against an American in America.   How do you feel about that?  
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Yeah, I think it was a good crowd.   I still heard people yelling out, Go [] Maddie or, Come on Madison.  
Yeah, I have always had great support here in America.   Not just here, but America in general.   I think maybe part of that is from my doubles back in the day with Lisa.   They got to know me a little bit.   I think obviously since US Open, as well.  
It's one of those places that I feel comfortable playing.   I always have good support no matter who I'm playing.   
   
 Q.   How did you feel about the way you played today?   There was potentially going to be a very tough match for you.   
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Yeah, sure.   I'm happy with the way I played.   I thought I served very well.   I didn't ‑‑she had a couple of opportunities I think ‑‑well, first game she had Love‑30, and then I served well to get out of that.   
And then as soon as I put a little bit of pressure of her early on in her game, her service game, didn't get it but then broke one or two games later and really took her‑‑ you know, a bit of a stranglehold on the match, I guess.  
But overall, I thought the thing that probably stuck out was my serving today, and then how I was able to take my opportunity on her serve when I got it.  
   
 Q.   Do you like the conditions here and the court surface?  
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Yeah, I do.   The court is actually really slow, it's really gritty, but the ball can go through the air pretty quick because it's so light and dry.  
You kind of can really get a lot on it, but then it holds up when it bounces.   For whatever reason, I like the way that feels out here and playing here.   It's good.  
   
 Q.   Sounds like a good scenario you're in.   
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Yeah, hopefully.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT