U.S. OPEN
August 31, 2012
Samantha Stosur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. STOSUR/V. Lepchenko
  7‑6, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   First and second sets were almost like different matches.   What was the difference between the two of them?
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   I think as the match went on I probably became a little bit more comfortable, got used to her spin and maybe the wind a little bit more.   It was tricky out there during the first set, and when it's tight, you know, it's hard to really kick start something. 
I think once I got that first set then I maybe relaxed a little bit more.   Once I got that break and then started to maybe see what was going on a bit more it became a little bit more easier for me.

Q.   Must be really pleased with the serving, Sam. 
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Yeah, I think that was something that really picked up as the match went on.   Aside from that first service game, I felt like I served very well.   As that first set went on and then throughout that second set I held pretty comfortably throughout. 
I think as I was doing that, then I would put a bit more pressure on her service games.   That's kind of how the match unfolded.   That's how I was able to get that run of games on the second set.

Q.   You play Laura Robson next.   She seems in good form.   A lefty.   Is it good to get a lefty before another lefty?
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Yeah, I think that's probably a good thing.   You never know when you're going to run into them.   The more times you play against that kind of spin, maybe the easier it gets.
You know, I have never played Laura before.   She's obviously full of confidence and had two very, very good wins.   Definitely can't go into that match slightly.   Have to go out there and be on my game and ready to play some good tennis.

Q.   Have you had a chance to watch any of her matches before?
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   To be honest, no, not really.   You know, she hasn't necessarily played too many tournaments that I have been at where, you know, where I have watched.
You know, it's a new opponent, and I have to do some homework and talk to my coach a little bit about that. 
Again, I've got to focus on my game.   And maybe there are a few things you can pick up, but at the end of the day I've got to do what I do well.

Q.   How dangerous is it when you play a player like her since she's on a hot streak, 18 years old, must be brimming with confidence coming off the defeat of Li Na?
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   For sure it can be a very tricky match.   She's probably got nothing to lose.   She's had two of probably the best wins of her career, and she's starting to maybe live up to some of that potential that people have talked about from when she won junior Wimbledon when she was 14.
Like I said, you can't go into it lightly.   You've got to be aware that, you know, she's going to come out swinging maybe and have that confidence behind her, but you've got to stick to your own guns play the way that you need to play.   When it comes down to the crunch, back yourself. 
I guess we'll see how the match unfolds, but I have got to go in there focused on what I need to do.

Q.   When you get deeper into the tournament, playing on center stage, Ashe, how important is it to have had those experiences before such as you have had?
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   I think it helps.   It can help a lot.   I know the first times I played out on Arthur Ashe and Rod Laver Arena, courts like that, it is a little bit more nerve‑wracking.   You're not used to those surroundings.
Unfortunately I have been out there quite a few times and played in these big matches, which I think can only be good for you once you got you get the confidence under your belt.

Q.   Are you feeling very confident right now? 
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   I'm feeling good.   I feel like, you know, I've done everything I need to to get to this position.   I thought I played quite well.   I have served very well.   I'm happy with where I'm at. 
Of course you always want to improve things.   So far, so good.

Q.   That experience you had on Ashe in the past, was that key today at 5‑All in the breaker?
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Yeah, I think that can help.   I was doing the right things.   I thought throughout that set I was serving well and winning my games comfortably and had chances on her service games and wasn't able to capitalize on those. 
But I think as the match went on, you know, I kept pushing to do what I needed to do.   At 5‑All and then, you know, 6‑5 that last set of the tiebreak, you know, I think that's really where it kind of came out.

Q.   Heading into the Lepchenko match you were hoping to maybe hit with a left hander, and now you have another one.   How easy is it to find a left‑handed hitting partner?
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   I ended up hitting with Kvitova.   Just by chance she was there looking and they said that there was no other courts.   Managed to practice with her, which is maybe a good thing. 
Yeah, tomorrow I probably won't be too concerned about it having just played a lefty, but we'll see what happens.   Again, you focus on your own game and do whatever you need to do to combat what they're doing once they're out there.

Q.   Where do you matchup well with Laura, do you think?
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   To be honest, I haven't thought about that match.   She only won a few minutes ago.   Again, I have never really watched her play that much.   We have practiced on grass before last year at Wimbledon, but I think it's one of those people that I'm going to have to probably think about a little bit more before I give you a good answer.

Q.   Do you know Laura from the Australian tennis system, or was that really one of the first times you had ever...
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   No, I mean, she obviously came out and people started taking notice when she did win junior Wimbledon. 
Again, I can't say that I saw many of her matches there, and that was quite a while ago now.   You know, players evolve as years go by, so I think she's obviously improving and playing very well.   I need to take a look and... 

Q.   Last year you had rain delays, you were thrown from pillar to post.   This year everything is going smoothly.   You know when you're playing.   Does it feel different this year?
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   It is what it is.   Last year there was all sorts of obstacles to get over, and I did that.   Worked out okay. 
You know, this year everything's been pretty straightforward.   Two contrasting tournaments at the moment, but, you know, I'll be ready to do with anything if it comes up. 

Q.   Angelique Kerber, yesterday she won against Venus Williams.   What do you think, is she really a hard player here for you?
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Oh, I mean, yeah, absolutely.   We're not anywhere near each other in the draw, I don't think.   You know, I'm not too worried what's going on on that side of the draw at the moment, but she really has gone from strength to strength from this tournament last year and just skyrocketed through the rankings. 
She's a very good player.   Yeah, I'm not necessarily surprised she won last year.   I was watching up until 5‑All in the second set and then I had to go to sleep to be ready for today.   I heard it was a pretty good match in the end. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT