WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 17, 2012
Samantha Stosur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







V. WILLIAMS/S. Stosur
  6‑2, 6‑7, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Tough match today, obviously.   How much do you take out of this with respect to your preparation for the Open?
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Yeah, I mean, it's always disappointing to lose I think when you play a good match like that, you know, and you think you've done enough almost to win. 
So, you know, on that front it's disappointing.   Still, I think I have had three really good matches here.   Again, kind of proved to myself by getting through that first round from that deficit in the third really did to try and help and get confidence and gain a bit of momentum going into New York.
Coming back in that third set, I have now won another match and played another really good match today.   There are still some positives to take from it. 

Q.   As you said, disappointing, but it was such a high quality match.   Can you allow yourself to enjoy a match like that while that's happening?
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Yeah, I think so.   I think you always feel when you're playing well or when it is a good match, then, you know, you can tell that people are into it and it's exciting and all that.
For sure, those matches are a lot more enjoyable than certain other ones.   You do feel that when you're out there.

Q.   You have played Venus three times from the beginning of kind of her comeback to a little bit in the middle and now.   How have you seen her game kind of progress since she's come back?
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Yeah, I mean, she's doing pretty well.   I mean, obviously she's the only one who can tell you how she feels week in and week out.
Match in Charleston we played was kind of like today.   It was a really good match and a pretty long three‑setter.   The one in Rome I think both of us actually played pretty average.   That was probably not a good indication.   Today, here again, it's another good one.
I think, you know, overall it's always gonna be kind of on her racquet how she's gonna feel and how she's gonna come out and play.   You know, I think if certain things are working for her then it makes it easier for her to be out there and doing well in tournaments.

Q.   Could you assess your play today, especially from the first set to the second?
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Yeah, first set wasn't too bad but just kinda probably didn't do enough.   You know, we both had the same amount of break points, and she broke me three times and I got her once.   I think kind of showed that she was maybe a little more aggressive and maybe took those opportunities more than what I did.
Throughout that second set, just kind of loosened up and started hitting the ball well and moving well.   I think I served better throughout the rest of the match from the second and the third, as well.
Yeah, not too much in it.   I think sometimes I lost serve by not doing that much wrong.   If that happens, then you have to say, Okay, now I try and return and break you. 
It's a much better feeling when you lose a match or lose serve, you know, still doing the right things.

Q.   For most of the match Venus' first‑serve percentage was in the mid 40s.   Do you think that she was going for maybe a little bit more against you?   What was it like being on the receiving end of her serve?
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Yeah, she kind of I think went up and down with how much pace she was wanting to put on it.   You know, I don't know what the win percentage was, but I'm guessing it was pretty decent.
I guess if you're getting rewarded on that front then you kind of keep going for it.   Even when she served at 5‑2 she went for big bombs and I managed to make those and then break.   She did the same thing the next game and got rewarded for it.
Again, it kind of proves you stick with something you know you're good at.   You believe it's going to work for you.   That's what she did kind of as the third set went on.

Q.   Next up for you is New York. 
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Yeah.

Q.   What are you going to do for the next I guess little over a week that you have until the tournament starts?
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   I'm going to go back to Florida for a few days and then head up to New York on Wednesday.   You know, I will take a day off tomorrow, travel there, try and get some good practice in, and just do the same in New York once I arrive there.

Q.   Are you expecting it to be any different now that you don't have anything else besides being the defending champion in New York?
SAMANTHA STOSUR:   Well, you know, it is what it is.   I'm looking forward to going back there.   It's a good feeling to be going into the tournament now I think with a little bit more confidence, which is good. 
Yeah, I think it will be a little bit different, but again, it's something to look forward to.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT