TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 15, 2016
Jah'Shawn Johnson
Patrick Mahomes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








West Virginia - 48, Texas Tech - 17
Q. Pat, I asked Coach Kingsbury to assess how things went today.  What happened in your view in terms of why it happened and what happened?
PATRICK MAHOMES: Pretty much negative in every way possible.  Offensively we didn't run the ball well.  We didn't protect well.  I've played probably the worst I've ever played, and we just didn't play well enough to win the football game.
Q. Do you think your shoulder was a problem?
PATRICK MAHOMES: No, I mean, it's better than last week.  It's getting better every day.  I mean, it's pretty much fine, just didn't play well in general.
Q. He said that you guys were intimidated.  Did you get that impression, too, that it appeared that West Virginia was intimidating you and hitting harder and you guys weren't responding?
PATRICK MAHOMES: I would say I wasn't very intimidated.  I feel like we weren't scared, but they did bring it to us, and we didn't respond well the whole entire game.
Q. Last year (Inaudible) it's a couple years in a row.  Is it defensive scheme or personnel with their guys that's the issue?
PATRICK MAHOMES: I mean, they have a good defense.  They had a good defensive coordinator.  They have a good scheme.  But I need to play better.  I don't know what I can say.  I mean, they pretty much dropped everybody out there, and I just couldn't find the open guys.
Q. How much did the defensive line distract y'all?
PATRICK MAHOMES: I mean, they played well.  We didn't get to run the ball very well.  We didn't get a lot of movement up front.  But, I mean, it's something where I've got to make more plays.  I've got to take the easier plays and not scramble around as much like I've talked about all summer and all fall.  It's something that I just have to be better at next week.
Q. The penalties these last two weeks disrupted the offense?
PATRICK MAHOMES: It definitely hurts being a high-tempo offense.  Just the dumb mistakes after the play, late hits, holdings that kill big plays, it just kills drives.  I mean, it's something that we've got to get cleaned up.
Q. Did the pre-game altercation affect things or affect you guys in any way?
PATRICK MAHOMES: I mean, not the offense as much.  They pretty much just talked to a few of the defensive guys, and I feel like it got them hyped up.  We were ready to go into the locker room when we got to the field, but it just didn't show up.
Q. Do you feel like with your shoulder with each pass you don't feel confident throwing?
PATRICK MAHOMES: No, going through warm-ups and going through pregame I feel fine throwing, post and comebacks and stuff like that.  It's just we've got to run better routes and I've got to get the ball there.  I take a lot of the blame myself for not making the right reads today, and it showed up on the field.
Q. I would think the 65-yard pass you threw in the air for the touchdown would probably answer questions about your shoulder?
PATRICK MAHOMES: Yeah, exactly.  I mean, it's something where, I mean, we've just got to get open.  We've got to block longer, and I've got to be better in general just making the throws.
Q. Are you more hesitant to run?  I mean, I know you said you still get outside the pocket and everything.  But it seemed like in that first or second series there was a chance that you might run a couple weeks ago.
PATRICK MAHOMES: I mean, I wouldn't say I was more hesitant.  I try to be smarter about sliding more and not necessarily lowering my shoulder and getting those one or two yards.  But, I mean, it hurt us, I guess, at one point when I slid and got stopped short and we couldn't get the first down.  So, I mean, it's just something whereas we progress, I'll start running again and be able to dive for it and get those first downs.
Q. What do you think is the biggest issue in being able to respond once you guys are in a ditch?
PATRICK MAHOMES: I mean, just I don't know exactly what it is.  It's a huge thing.  It feels like offensively, especially if we're not rolling, we get in a ditch and can't pick it back up.  It's something we've got to work on and get rolling and get it going every single game, every single play.
Q. Are you more surprised or shocked at how things went today?
PATRICK MAHOMES: Embarrassed, I guess you would say.  They pretty much told us all week they were going to come in here and shut us out.  Told us they were going to hold us to ten points, and they basically did.  It's pretty embarrassing, really.
Q. How much pressure do you feel like it puts on the Oklahoma game for Saturday?
PATRICK MAHOMES: I mean, we're going to go in, look at everything.  Coaches will look at everything.  I mean, a lot of spots will be up for grabs, including myself.  I'm going to have to go out there and play.  Nick's out there playing hard.  It's really I've just got to bring it at practice and come ready, because Oklahoma's a great team.  They have a great defense.  I think I threw four interceptions last year, and they have a good scheme too, so we're going to have to be better.
Q. (Inaudible) smack talk but the team still came out flat.  Do you have an answer or reason why you think the team came out so flat?
PATRICK MAHOMES: I really don't know.  I mean, it's crazy to me.  We were all hyped up in the locker room.  Everybody was.  Probably one of the most energized locker rooms before the game, and then we got out there and it was flat the entire game.  I don't know.  It's surreal.  Honestly.  It feels like it was a dream or something that happened.
Q. What exactly happened (Inaudible)?
JAH'SHAWN JOHNSON: Tempers were just flaring.  I mean, both sides of the ball, both teams were both excited to get in the game and play, and that's just about it.
Q. Do you think that had any effect on the game at all?
JAH'SHAWN JOHNSON: No, sir.
Q. (Inaudible) how would you rate the mood in the locker room right now?
JAH'SHAWN JOHNSON: Everybody's disappointed.  I mean, definitely an embarrassing performance.  We've just got to get better this week, and we have another great team coming in this week and hopefully we'll get better.
Q. Why do you think you came out flat today?
JAH'SHAWN JOHNSON: I have no clue.  I mean, we had a great week of practice, game plan was great.  Coach Gibbs had some great calls.  We missed a few tackles here and there and just kind of went downhill from there.
Q. What do you feel like were the biggest issues today?
JAH'SHAWN JOHNSON: I couldn't tell you.  We didn't fit in our run gap very well.  Allowed too many big plays secondary-wise as well.  I mean, I don't know, honestly.
Q. Do you notice a trend on the sideline when you guys get on a ditch, it's just you get in a ditch, get in a hole against a team, that there's not somebody there to pick you guys up to be able to respond?
JAH'SHAWN JOHNSON: No, actually the sideline was well into the game.  Everyone's still alive.  No matter what the score was, we got out there and fought and just didn't make it happen.
Q. In the last few weeks you've had three different guys playing next to you.  (Inaudible) is that causing you any problems just with continuity or rhythm, communication, stuff like that?
JAH'SHAWN JOHNSON: No, sir.  Each one of them know what they're doing when they're out there.  I still do my job.  They know what to do.  They communicate well with the linebackers and the corners and things like that.  They do a great job for us.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT