TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 17, 2016
Jonathan Giles
Jah'Shawn Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Texas Tech - 59, Louisiana Tech - 45   
 Q.  Quite a night, Jonathan.  Were you just getting a lot of -- getting into space really easily?  Was the defense not that tough?  
JONATHAN GILES: Oh, no, they have a very good team.  We watched film Tuesday evening and we saw how good of a defense they played, especially against Arkansas, held them to 20 points, so we knew what kind of defense they had.  So we just wanted to come out there and compete.   
 Q.  You had the three touchdowns, and the big block that got Dylan one.  Which are you going to take away tonight?  
JONATHAN GILES: Probably blocking, just because I pride myself on being a team player and blocking for my teammates.  That's one of the things Coach Morris did a good job of, and all season, just teaching me how to be a better blocker.   
 Q.  The tight play --  
JONATHAN GILES: I just, when I caught the ball, I saw nothing but O-linemen, so I really was just trying to make room and get open space and get down the field.   
 Q.  In the third play and -- (off mic).  
JONATHAN GILES: Yes, sir.   
 Q.  The long touchdown that you got in the end zone early on, you were completely wide open.  Did it feel like forever for the ball to come because you were so open?  
JONATHAN GILES: Yes, just because we practice scramble drill in practice all the time.  So I knew once I saw Pat roll out to the pocket, I was going to go to the back of the end zone and he's going to find me.   
 Q.  Does having a more balanced offense do you think kind of build a better rhythm?  
JONATHAN GILES: Yes, I feel like it makes it easier for Pat just so he don't have to throw the ball a whole lot, can hand the ball to J-Stock or Will (ph), they going to get ten-plus yards, so it's very fun.  And us as a receiver group, just blocking, being physical, is very fun.   
 Q.  How do you feel the team rebounded after -- how much of a better feeling is it than coming off the loss?  
JONATHAN GILES: Oh, it's much better.  Coming off the loss, I was going to say, we was all disappointing because we knew what kind of team we have.  We just want to get through that week of practice and get ready for the game.  We couldn't wait for it.   
 Q.  You and Pat seemed to be in the zone.  You always seemed to find the space that you need to make those catches.  Were you going into the huddle and saying, hey, just, I'm here?  
JONATHAN GILES: Oh, no, sir, I don't do something like that.  I played quarterback in high school, so I know what Pat looks for and I know what he wants to go to, so we always find --  when he's always looking for somebody, I'm always going deep.  As a quarterback, I like for somebody to go deep just to launch it.  It's fun.   
 Q.  Do you feel like the defense responded tonight after last week?  
JAH'SHAWN JOHNSON: Yes, we played good.  We had a lot of things to work on.  Got to tackle better.  Missed a couple tackles that we should make, that's fundamental tackles, but we did play better from last week.   
 Q.  Any change for you?  
JAH'SHAWN JOHNSON: No, sir.  Still play the same, next man up, Payton Hendrix came in, done a good job.  Just kept rolling.   
 Q.  Why did they have more success in the second half, ten points, two minutes left in the half and they started rolling.  What was the difference from your perspective?  
JAH'SHAWN JOHNSON: I'm not sure.  I guess we didn't tackle in the second half, missed some key tackles that we made in practice and in other games.  I mean, you miss tackles, and they get big plays.  But we just got to tackle better.   
 Q.  Do you think it was a big lead syndrome?  
JAH'SHAWN JOHNSON: No, I wouldn't say that.  I guess -- I honestly don't know.  I mean, just getting comfortable I guess, but I'm not sure.  We just got to tackle better.   
 Q.  Do you feel like that Louisiana Tech touchdown changed the momentum drastically?  Did you feel anything shift at that point?  
JAH'SHAWN JOHNSON: No, sir.  Guys were still up.  We were excited.  We were winning the game.  We were ready to come back for the second half and play, so I don't think it done anything to us.   
 Q.  Do you think the demeanor on the bench was better tonight when you had the adversity, than last week in Tempe?  
JAH'SHAWN JOHNSON: Yes, it was much better.  Guys were picking each other up.  The sideline was a lot more life than it was last week.  We did a great job.  I mean, they kept us in the game.   
 Q.  Who was leading that charge, do you think, or was it any one person?  
JAH'SHAWN JOHNSON: It was just all the team.  There wasn't anyone that just stuck out.   
 Q.  Seemed like you brought pressure as a defense on third down more tonight.  Did you feel like that and did you like that kind of adjustment?  
JAH'SHAWN JOHNSON: Yes, sir, we did bring more pressure than we have been.  We did a great job with it.  We had a few different looks, got some DBs blitzing and things like that.  It turned out really well.   
 Q.  Two of the top tacklers today were freshmen.  Talk about the way Douglas Coleman and Jordyn Brooks they played.  
JAH'SHAWN JOHNSON: They came in from summer, done a great job.  Earned their chance to play in the games and they been studying, week-in, week-out, making sure they know what they are doing when they get a chance to get in there and they did a great job.   
 Q.  From your perspective, is there anything different when you have freshmen in there -- what have they shown in terms of their knowledge of the defense?  
JAH'SHAWN JOHNSON: They know everything just about as well as we do.  They study day-in and day-out, stay late.  I'm always in there with Coach Scott and Coach Gibbs learning everything else.  They do a great job when they get on the field.   
 Q.  On the added pressure; that something y'all worked on this week or is it just Coach's call at the end of the game?  
JAH'SHAWN JOHNSON: Kind of we worked on it but -- I mean, the playbook didn't change at all.  I mean, Coach Gibbs just brought it out tonight and we did a great job when he did.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT