TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 29, 2018
Jah'Shawn Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








West Virginia - 42, Texas Tech - 34
Q. What do you think was the difference between the first half and the second half?
JAH'SHAWN JOHNSON: I'm not sure, honestly.  We just kind of started out flat, and no one knows why, honestly.  But you can't do that with a good team like that.
Q. Coach Kingsbury said that was on him.  Is that just taking one for the team, or do you feel like you guys are the ones that are responsible for that?
JAH'SHAWN JOHNSON: Yeah, I mean, we've got to get ourselves going.  We've got to play for each other, play for our coaches, as well.  But yeah, we've just got to get ourselves going.  We wake up at that time every day, so I don't think sleep was a big factor.  I just don't know.  We just started out flat.
Q. Obviously West Virginia has a talented passing game, but describe y'all's leadership, particularly on the defensive side, when you're giving up 28 in the first quarter?
JAH'SHAWN JOHNSON: I mean, I think the leaders just kept trying to be positive on the sideline, kept trying to keep everyone up.  Like I said, we just kind of came out flat.  We just kind of had a talk in the second half, I mean, just go out there and just fly around.  I mean, we still came up short, but like I said, we can't give up 35 in the first half to a good team like that.
Q. Did you sense that in the pregame, that you guys were feeling a little flat?
JAH'SHAWN JOHNSON: I did not.  I thought we were ready.  I mean, we had a great week of preparation.  We knew they were a good offense.  They had a good defense, and I thought we were up for the challenge.
Q. What are the positives you guys can take away from today?
JAH'SHAWN JOHNSON: I don't know.  I mean, I don't think we have any positives.  Like I said, we were down 25 at half.  We've got to start faster and end the game with a win.
Q. You guys have managed to shut out two straight teams in the second half, two very talented offensive teams.  What were some of the adjustments that you made against West Virginia in the second half to make you a little bit more comfortable?
JAH'SHAWN JOHNSON: We had no adjustments, honestly.  We just kept going out there and playing.  I guess we finally woke up a little bit and decided to actually play football.  I don't know what we did in the first half.  It's not acceptable.
Q. Looking forward, what's going to be, I guess, something you guys will focus on for TCU?
JAH'SHAWN JOHNSON: We'll just keep going, doing what we're doing.  We've got 12 days to prepare for a good TCU team.  We know they'll give us their best shot, so we'll get back after it tomorrow, get in the film room, get it corrected and go from there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT