TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 18, 2017
Jah'Shawn Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TCU - 27, TTU - 3
Q. Jah'Shawn, what's the mood like in the locker room?
JAH'SHAWN JOHNSON: Kind of disappointed, wasn't our best performance.  We got the ball, I think seven times.  We only got one of them back.  We turned the ball over, what, twice I think on offense.  Just got to capitalize on our opportunities and we didn't do that and they did.
Q. When you forced that fumble, did you feel pretty good about your chances, especially with the way the game was going at that point?
JAH'SHAWN JOHNSON: Definitely, yeah.  Went into the offensive huddle and picked them up and told them, let's go.  They put the ball in the end zone here, we're going to loop back from there.  I mean TCU's defense done a great job of doing what they had to do to get off the field and force our kicker to make a field goal, and they put some pressure in his face and he missed it.  So credit their defense for bouncing back with a sudden change.
Q. What do you feel has made this defense so much better going through this season so far?
JAH'SHAWN JOHNSON: Just trusting each other, trusting our coaching, doing our job and not trying to do everyone else's, that's about it.  It's just, it could have been done in the past, it's just a couple selfish guys here and there that just kind of made it not work.
Q. After that sudden change after the miss, a short field goal as you were just talking about, it looked like that was the only kind of, sort of the only letdown for the defense all day.
JAH'SHAWN JOHNSON: They just started executing.  We were doing what we had to do.  The quarterback's a good player and they have a lot of great skill players, and their OC made some great calls that we couldn't stop.  But the defense was up for the whole game, never thought we would lose the game.  We were just doing what we had to do to get off the field.  They just scored, so credit to them.
Q. Going up against Robinson were you expecting him to run so much and what did y'all do to negate that or try to slow him down?
JAH'SHAWN JOHNSON: We knew either one of them could run so you don't prepare differently for either quarterback.  He found some great holes and he made plays.  You saw him play in high school last year, he won a state championship.  So he wasn't, he's not a shy guy, he knew what he had to do to win the game and he did it.
Q. That quarterback run, what happened there?
JAH'SHAWN JOHNSON: We work on just about everything, so I mean, we don't just put any plays into specifics, we just watch what they do to previous teams and see what we couldn't stop on our previous team and just work on that, basically.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT