TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 10, 2017
Jah'Shawn Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What were you doing last night when the shooting happened?  
JAH'SHAWN JOHNSON: I was actually at home doing some homework and got a message on our Teamworks from our athletic department to take shelter and stay inside and make sure we were doing the right thing.   
 Q.  What jumps out to you about the West Virginia offense?  
JAH'SHAWN JOHNSON: I'd say the explosive plays, the quarterback can get out the pocket and extend a play, and the receivers are well-trained.  I mean, they turn it up and go downfield just like our offense does when our quarterbacks get out the pocket.  They make a lot of plays, so we just have to limit the big play and make them drive the field.   
 Q.  Is it harder with them not having one receiver that they can go to at any given time, but they've got three that have all got 100-yard games this season?  
JAH'SHAWN JOHNSON: Yes.  I mean, just about every team has three or four receivers that can make plays, so I mean, we'll prepare the same.  I know they'll probably try to isolate us in the slots more this week because I know their top two guys kind of move around from the inside to the outside a lot.  That's what we're thinking is going to happen this week.   
 Q.  What makes David Sills difficult as a wide receiver?  
JAH'SHAWN JOHNSON: He's kind of a big body, but he also has some shiftiness to him.  I mean, you've just got to kind to -- it's hard to play him.  I mean, it's hard to play him at press coverage, it's hard to play off because he can run around you and he catches the ball very well, and the quarterback does a great job of getting it to him.   
 Q.  When is the last time you've seen a guy have a sequence like Justus did where he picked up a fumble recovery for a touchdown and then on the next possession had a pick?  
JAH'SHAWN JOHNSON: I don't know, I don't think I've ever seen it.  I was kind of jealous of him, actually.  I mean, I had a couple opportunities in the game, as well, and I dropped my interception, and the fumble got overturned.  I was kind of joking with him on the sideline, I was like, should have been my play and things.  But he's doing a great job since fall camp started -- actually started in the spring.  He had some big plays in the spring, and he's just been flying around, probably has the most turnovers in practice out of everyone on the defense.  It was great to see him make some plays out there in the game.   
 Q.  As aggressively as you play, is this week a challenge for you because they have the top running back, Crawford, and the quarterback plays a lot and a couple receivers who are big play guys, is it a challenge for you to stay disciplined because they can hurt you in so many different ways?  
JAH'SHAWN JOHNSON: Yeah, you have to stay disciplined in any game, though, and I kind of got away from that this past week, which almost cost us a couple plays.  The quarterback overthrew the ball early in the game, which I was trying to make a play instead of reading my keys and the tight end got behind us.  That was bad.  But yeah, once the quarterback gets out the pocket, we just have to lock on and stay on our man and make sure he crosses the line before we pull up and try to go tackle him this week.   
 Q.  That play Saturday, then, the pass down the field, you shouldn't have --  
JAH'SHAWN JOHNSON: Yes, I was actually in the post and he kind of looked off a little to the right, and I pulled too far that way and the guy got behind me.   
 Q.  When you're up in a game by 20, 30 points in the second half, how do you feel that focus and intensity for the entire game?  
JAH'SHAWN JOHNSON: I mean, it's not hard, honestly, because we expect to do good and to be up when we do our best.  Once it gets down to that time, it's just kind of one guy that don't get as many reps to be able to play, so you know you have to take care of your job so they can get in and get a chance to make some plays.  We just stay focused and continue to punch at the ball and strip at the ball and try to get it out and get our offense some easy scores.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT