MONTREAL CHAMPIONSHIP
September 6, 2013
Dick Mast
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Maybe just start talk a little bit about your day, how you played, 3‑under, which right now you are tied for the lead.   How did everything go today?   
DICK MAST:   Well, I have been playing injured all year, so I'm really iffy with my back.   
I started out, birdied the first three holes.   That's always a good start.   
I 3‑putted the 4th, and then the wind started getting heavier.   I think we got a little bit of a break playing second off.   It was windy, but not as windy as it is right now.   Got a chance to play four or five holes without real heavy wind and that's already an advantage.   You never know when you are going to get a break, but I think I did.   
I played pretty solid.   I'm usually a fairly good wind player.   Like I say, it's hard‑‑ you've got to control your ball in the wind.   You've got to have a good short game.   
I made some key putts here and there, keep the momentum going.   So all of a sudden, 3‑under is a decent round.  
   
 Q.   What were your birdies?   Do you remember No. 1 what the shot sequence was?   
DICK MAST:   I hit a driver and I had 97yards.   Hit a sand wedge.   I need a scorecard to remember this.   I'm going to need a scorecard to remember the‑‑ I'm limited to what I can do, so I laid up with a 6‑iron, and then had a 95‑yard shot and hit it about tenfeet and made it.  
   
 Q.   What did you hit for that third?  
DICK MAST:   Sand wedge.  
   
 Q.   Sand wedge, okay.   
DICK MAST:   Then the par‑3, I hit‑‑ normally I would hit a 4‑iron, I hit a 3‑iron and had about a 35‑foot putt and 3‑putted there.   
   
 Q.   And the long No. 12, the par‑5 on the back?  
DICK MAST:   Yeah, I hit a good tee shot, laid up with a 5‑iron and had 84yards, hit an L‑wedge about threefeet.  
   
 Q.   Then you bogeyed 13?  
DICK MAST:   Bogeyed 13.   Beautiful tee shot and had‑‑ we changed clubs and came up short and didn't get up‑and‑down.   
   
 Q.   Do you remember how long your putt was on No. 1, just backing up?  
DICK MAST:   No. 1 was about 25feet.   
I hit a 9‑iron into 2.   Made about a 30‑foot putt, was it, on 2?   Came up short there a little bit.   Couple of 25‑footers.  
   
 Q.   Then on 4 you said‑‑  
DICK MAST:   3‑putted from 35feet, left it short.  
   
 Q.   On No. 13, I mean, the one on the back, your only bogey?  
DICK MAST:   13, I hit a nice tee shot and then 9‑iron out.   The wind was kind of switching.   I went to a pitching wedge and left it short.   Didn't get up‑and‑down.  
   
 Q.   Then you birdied the next, came back with a birdie?  
DICK MAST:   Next hole I hit a nice tee shot and I drove the ball pretty decent today.   That's always key on this golf course.   Any course, but especially here.   
I hit a 5‑wood in the left bunker and almost holed it, about a 20 footer, 20‑foot bunker shot.   It was actually pretty dicey bunker shot, but it was easy after it was done.  
   
 Q.   How much was the wind a factor today?   
DICK MAST:   Well, it definitely‑‑ it's tricky.   I mean, I kept looking, where is it in the book?   You know, you didn't feel like you were in the wind, but up top it was doing that.   
I don't know the course well enough to know where it buffets and circles around.   Even though you're going downwind, it actually it had the greenage into the wind, something like that.   
That happened that one time on No. 12.   I had a 9‑iron out and my caddie thought that‑‑ he says, You know what, that's too much club.   Turned out that he was right.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT