THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 29, 2012
Dick Mast
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  DICK MAST:   Well, I'm very, very happy.   I played‑‑ actually this is probably the most solid I've played from tee‑to‑green, maybe, ever.   I was very happy about that.   I've been hitting the ball well for a while.   You know, I really had a cold putter. 
Today I putted better.   You have to putt, but not that I didn't make anything, but I had a lot of chances and I was very pleased about that.   I was just thankful that I was playing good. 

Q.   And that's saying something if you say this is just about the best ever. 
DICK MAST:   Yeah, you know, it's the truth.   I really hit it good, for me. 

Q.   Hugely satisfying, if that's the case? 
DICK MAST:   Yes, very satisfying. 

Q.   And are you conscious of the way you've built things over this final round and progressed up that board. 
DICK MAST:   Well, I was very pleased today to finish strong.   In 2006, I shot 3‑under the last day, and it was‑‑ might have been a little tougher that day.   It was really windy.   But this golf course, you just have to hit it in the right spot.   You get in those pot bunkers and you just kick yourself. 

Q.   What were your thoughts going into the final round?   I presume you knew that if you shot low, you would have a chance at a prominent finish. 
DICK MAST:   Yeah, I'm a Christian, so you know, that helps me to ask the Lord to help me to trust Him and put me where He wants me to be and I did the best I could.   And I did that 90 per cent of the time, which is pretty high.   (Laughing).   So it's hard, you know.   It's by God's Grace, you can trust Him in anything. 

Q.   Have you enjoyed playing on such a beautiful links course as this? 
DICK MAST:   I enjoy links style.   I wish in my career I would have come over here more.   I was always trying to win a tournament in the States while everybody was over here playing the satellite tournaments.   I love this kind of golf.   You have to be creative.   I've been accused of working the ball too much, but I enjoy hitting different shots, and you have to do that here.   It forces you to. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT