THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 26, 2012
Dick Mast
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Lovely day?   
DICK MAST:   It was a lovely day.   I got off to a good start and hit some good, crisp irons.   Had some close putts and got it going.   You know, as Turnberry is, you're always going to make some mistakes.   I made a few, but I really hit my irons good today.   So it was a good day.  
   
 Q.   When you finish in style like that, as well, it makes you feel even better.   
DICK MAST:   You know what, that was the same pin on the 18th in 2006.   I had that to get in a playoff, and I hit it over the left edge.   My son reminded me of that.   He says, "Knock it in this time."   That was for Turnberry in 2006.  
   
 Q.   Good memories of that time?  
DICK MAST:   Vary good memories.   Links style, open courses, always tough.   When the wind picks up, we'll be hanging on.  
   
 Q.   Presumably you'll be excited when you knew the Senior Open was coming back here?   
DICK MAST:   Yeah, good memories and I was looking forward to playing again.  
   
 Q.   But it wasn't guaranteed, was it?   Had to come through qualifying?  
DICK MAST:   Yeah, I had to change my stroke coming from the 18th hole.   I went from free style to breast; it was so wet.     
   
 Q.   But I take it the game is in shape for whatever the weather throws at you.   
DICK MAST:   I'm hitting the ball well and I've had some good tournaments of late and trying to keep that momentum going.  
   
 Q.   Elaborate on that.   You are in a good frame of form at the moment.   
DICK MAST:   I've been hitting the ball well and working with teacher, Wayne DeFrancesco at Woodmont in Baltimore for the last two years.   And I have not gotten to compete much in the last three years, so I think it just took a little while to get my short game to catch up with my ball‑striking.   
   
 Q.   Without being rude, does that mean you're a slow learner?   
DICK MAST:   You continually re‑learn in this game.   Yeah, maybe just learning how to play; you never do.   
   
 Q.   It is one of those where you've actually just got to tweak things and a slight change can make a huge difference sometimes.   
DICK MAST:   I've been to a lot of good teachers and I'm trying to simplify it.  
   
 Q.   Do you like your position on the board?   
DICK MAST:   Haven't even looked at it.   
   
 Q.   You should.   You're in second spot.   Just behind Bernhard Langer.   
DICK MAST:   I'll look at it now.   I just want to try to keep making birdies.   I'd like to play with Bernhard.   I played with him in the third round in our U.S. Open last week.   I'd like to play with him again.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT