U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 14, 2012
Dick Mast
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MODERATOR:   Ladies and gentlemen, Dick Mast shot 69 today and is 5 under par for the Championship.  
   
 Q.   I guess you played a kind of quintessential USGA round here at Indianwood for five birdies and four bogeys and still made up a shot.   So tell us about‑‑ a little bit about your round.   
DICK MAST:   Well, I let one get away right off the bat.   I hit in that bunker on the right on 1, and so I let one get away right there.   But I made a good 5 and followed up with a birdie, so felt good about it.   Then three‑putted the very next hole from 15 feet below the hole.   My pace is not real good on my putter.  
All my bogeys were‑‑ I missed one green.   So I missed one green and was fortunate to make bogey there, I had to make.   And then I three‑putted three other times, I believe. So one of them was a legitimate three‑putt.   I got on the wrong side of a pin coming out of the rough off the tee.   You got to be in the fairway to control where you are in the green.   
So all in all, I'm happy.   I'm playing golf, watched a great round today.   Bernhard, almost a fantastic round.   Just hiccupped twice.   Boy, he played nice.  
   
 Q.   With him having the lead that he does possibly going into tomorrow, is he catchable?   
DICK MAST:   No.   I shouldn't say that.   Anybody can do that.   He ran the tables today and that's the advantage.   He doesn't have to run it tomorrow.   And he's a great frontrunner, a great position player, the ultimate cross all his Ts, dot all his Is.   He knows where he's trying to go. He misses shots, but they're within reason.   
The double bogey he made was a freak‑‑ that can happen on a U.S. Open course.   He was only 20 feet from the hole, made double.   But I don't see it if he has a five‑shot lead or something‑‑ is that what he has?  
   
 Q.   It's happened before.   Allen Doyle was nine shots back in NCR and shot 63 on the last day.   
DICK MAST:   That's golf.   Somebody can light it up like he did too.   That's what's going to have to happen.   Somebody's going to have to light it up.   And it doesn't happen too often, except for Johnny Miller.   How far back was that?  
   
 Q.   Is that kind of round in Dick Mast?   
DICK MAST:   I've got one of those in my bag.   I wish it would come out tomorrow.   That would be fun.  
   
 Q.   Thank you so much.   Good luck finding that round in your bag.   
DICK MAST:   Thank you.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT