NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: BLACKHAWKS v SHARKS
May 22, 2010
Evgeni Nabokov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. How do you remain calm in this situation?   
 EVGENI NOBOKOV: I said previously, I don't think so it's that hard because we felt like we played hard, but we couldn't find a way to win. We doing a lot of good things. We just have to continue to do that, hoping to grab the win.   
 But it's not easy. You see the teams are so evenly matched up almost in every aspect of the game. It's just one bounce there, one mistake there, that costs the game. But that's playoffs. I think that's how we win the Detroit series.   
 It looks easy, but it wasn't. But we were on one side and now we facing the different side, so...   
  
  Q. When you go in tomorrow, do you forget this is Game 4 and you're down three?   
 EVGENI NOBOKOV: I think I just answered that. You just go and you just try to win the next game. There's no other way to look at that.   
 If you come out and you gonna be crying about this, crying about that, it's no way we compare these playoffs with any other playoffs. It's not even close. So we just have to stay the course and continue to do what we do.   
 That's unique of this sport because sometimes you play good, but you still gonna lose. For many reasons, the bounce doesn't go your way. Sometimes the goalie made really good saves in the third or second period, whatever it is. So just have to battle through.   
  
  Q. Do you feel you are battling against the enemy? They talk about the matchups.   
 EVGENI NOBOKOV: I think every series in the playoffs you compare the matchups, you guys talk about it. It's no different this year as it is playing against the Blackhawks, but everything is saying you're playing against Niemi or whoever else is there.   
 The bottom line is, you want to make just one more save than the other goalie. That's how I look at that. You know, I wish it can go other way. But it is what it is right now. We have to muddle through that.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT