MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAú
March 23, 2018
Naomi Osaka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








E. SVITOLINA/N. Osaka
6-4, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You've had such a sort of Cinderella run through Indian Wells, the Serena match and everything.  Talk about the match today, what you think happened out there, how you feel afterward.
NAOMI OSAKA: Well, I mean, she played really good.  I tried to play the best that I can.  Other than that, I can't really say much.  I didn't really feel that well today, so I'm just happy it was at least a little bit competitive.
Q. Were you tired at all?  A lot emotionally and physically you've been through the last two weeks.
NAOMI OSAKA: No, I wasn't tired.  I think I'm probably a little bit sick or something, so...
Q. What are the symptoms?  What are you feeling?
NAOMI OSAKA: Like I need to throw up a lot, so...
Q. What are the positives you take from your week?  Obviously the big win over Serena.  What are the good things from this?
NAOMI OSAKA: Well, definitely a lot.  Like, I think I've played more matches than I ever have back-to-back.  I didn't really feel that tired, so that's a good thing.  And I've played so many good players, and I've experienced a lot of new things, so I'm really happy about that.  I think that's the biggest thing.
Q. Looking ahead to the Fed Cup, what are your plans?  Will you play?
NAOMI OSAKA: I don't know.  Depends.  I think I didn't really decide yet.
Q. What does it depend on?
NAOMI OSAKA: If I'm healthy or not.  I think that's the main thing.
Q. You think you'll play if you're healthy?
NAOMI OSAKA: Probably, yes.
Q. Looking back on these past three weeks, if you can just pick one best match, best moment for you, what would it be?
NAOMI OSAKA: Definitely playing Serena.  But also just the matches leading up to the final, and the final itself.  So I can't really choose one.  Of course, winning the final was really cool.  I've always dreamed of playing Serena, so I think that's my number one.
Q. Were you feeling sick from the morning?  Last night?  Just when you were on the court?  When did it kick in?
NAOMI OSAKA: When I was warming up this morning.
Q. Was there any chance you wouldn't play or you were just going to play through it?
NAOMI OSAKA: No, I would feel -- I don't think it would be right to just not play, especially after if I play someone like Serena, then you just don't play the next match.  I think that's wrong, so...
I tried to play.
Q. If it was just a practice day, would you not have practiced?
NAOMI OSAKA: Like what do you mean, a practice set or something?
Q. Just in training, would you have skipped training today because of feeling sick?
NAOMI OSAKA: Yeah, probably.  Like, I wouldn't want to make it worse for the actual match.
Q. About today's match, Svitolina, you played her a couple times already, do you feel like she played differently today, better than previous matchups?  Anything that you could have done better in today's match?
NAOMI OSAKA: No, I think she played well.  Like, she always plays well.  I think every time I play her, her serve gets better.  She's ranked as high as she is for a reason.
I don't think I could have done better today to do anything special, so I'm pretty happy about how I did.  Yeah, I think she's really great.  She can probably go far.
Q. You always said consistency is important for you.  How was the consistency in today's match?
NAOMI OSAKA: Well, I mean, I tried the best that I could.  I'm not sure of the stats or anything.  I think it's pretty hard to be consistent against her, because she's one of the most consistent players.
I think in that way, I would either have to make a choice to step in and just attack more or try to, like, out-consistent her, which is kind of weird for my style of game.
I think if I made more unforced errors today, then that's something I have to deal with.
Q. Talk about the schedule after this week.  Are you going to go to Stanford?
NAOMI OSAKA: Yeah, I think so.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT