U.S. OPEN
September 1, 2018
Naomi Osaka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
N. OSAKA/A. Sasnovich   
6-0, 6-0   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  A nice win today.  Just three unforced errors you hit in two sets.  Do you remember playing a match that clean?  
NAOMI OSAKA: No, I guess not if you're saying it like that.   
 Q.  Can you talk about just how the match went, full control from the first point.  
NAOMI OSAKA: I mean, for me, I just remember, like, she hit three really good shots, I think, in the first game to get up 40-Love on my serve.  And then from that moment, I was just thinking that I'm going to try to make as many shots as possible.  I ended up winning that game.  For some reason, my momentum kept going.   
But other than that, I didn't really have, like, a particular mindset or anything.   
 Q.  You're in the final 16.  There have been a slew of upsets.  As the tournament goes into the second week, are you liking your chances of winning even more?  
NAOMI OSAKA: Sure.  I mean, I don't really look at the draw, so I don't even know who I'm playing or anything.  I think now I'm just trying to focus on one match at a time.  And, I mean, I enter the tournament to win, but it's not like -- it's not an immediate goal.  It's like the result of winning multiple matches.  So right now I'm just focusing on that.   
 Q.  When you're on a roll like that in a match, are you aware of the score?  Do you realize when you're late in the second set, you might actually beat someone 6-Love, 6-Love?  Are you able to think about that or what's your mindset?  
NAOMI OSAKA: Well, for me, I used to have this really bad -- I wouldn't say it's, like, not focusing, but I used to have a little bit of -- like if I would go up 3-0, then I would create this drama where I relax a lot, and then I let the person come back into the match.  So I think, for me, now that I'm able to beat people at easier scores like this, I think I have improved a lot.   
I wasn't necessarily thinking of the score when I was playing today.  I was just thinking, like, the stuff that I had to do to keep winning.   
 Q.  You said you play better when you're having fun.  Obviously you're having fun in this tournament.  What's making the US Open fun that helps you play so well here?  
NAOMI OSAKA: I mean, I really like New York, so that's a big bonus.  I like the crowd and everyone's really nice to me, so I'm really grateful for that.   
Yeah, I just like New York as a city.  I think that's one of the biggest things.   
 Q.  Do you remember the last time you double-bageled an opponent?  
NAOMI OSAKA: Yeah.   
 Q.  Can you talk about it.  
NAOMI OSAKA: It was you in my dreams (smiling).   
 Q.  You can talk about that offline, but...  
NAOMI OSAKA: Sorry.   
 Q.  But do you remember actually when the last time was that you double-bageled an opponent?  
NAOMI OSAKA: I think it's been a very long time.  I feel like I have done it before, but maybe when I was, like, 15 or something.  It's been a while.   
 Q.  Do you remember your opponent in that match?  
NAOMI OSAKA: You.  Just kidding (smiling).   
If I've bageled someone, it's always been just one set and not two.  I'm not really sure.   
 Q.  A lot of players are very superstitious.  Are you?  If so, what sorts of things do you do or try to avoid either on the court or before a match?  
NAOMI OSAKA: Well, I mean, for me, I guess I have, like, specific things I eat, like, I can't really be adventurous with what I eat because I get a little bit, like, nervous.   
So, like, before my match, I would always eat the same breakfast and stuff like that.   
 Q.  What's your breakfast, generally, if you eat the same thing?  
NAOMI OSAKA: Well, now I feel like I have eaten 500 bagels with smoked salmon on it (smiling).  That's what I have been eating here, yeah.   
 Q.  It's Petra or Sabalenka for you next.  What are your thoughts on either of those opponents and how will you prepare?  
NAOMI OSAKA: Well, I have never played either of them, but I feel like I have watched them play.  I feel like I would know Kvitova's game more, because I watched her growing up a little bit.   
Yeah, I don't know who's going to win, so I guess I'm just going to watch that match and not worry too much, I guess.   
 Q.  Do you think you're playing the best tennis of your career?  If so, why?  What's the biggest reason?  
NAOMI OSAKA: I don't want to sound negative, but no, because I feel like I can always do something better.  That's one really good thing about me, but also it's something negative, because I'm never satisfied.   
But, I mean, of course I feel like I'm progressing, so that's a really good sign, and I just want to keep it going.   
 Q.  What have you been doing since you love New York so much and you're so familiar with the city?  What have you been doing to enjoy your time on off days?  
NAOMI OSAKA: Well, I mean, in the mornings I don't play my matches, I walk around and hear the lovely honking and stuff (smiling).   
Yeah, like, any afternoon that I have time off, I would go and walk around again.  I just like walking in the city, I think.  It's just there is a lot of energy.  And then you come back to the hotel very angry because everyone just makes you very angry (smiling).   
I feel like it's a good exercise.   
 Q.  That's a pleasant feeling for you?  
NAOMI OSAKA: When I go out, it feels good.  Then it's just, like, you're walking and you're, like, Oh, why are these people walking so slow?  And stuff like that.   
In the beginning, like, when I start off, it's in a very happy mood.   
 Q.  When we spoke in Dubai, you told me about when you were here in New York and you were living in a big house with your family, like the Asian part of your family and your mother.  I'm wondering, what does New York and that part of your life mean to you and just your upbringing at that time?  
NAOMI OSAKA: Well, I mean, for me, New York is very nostalgic.  I used to play here when I was a little kid, so these courts aren't new to me.  I would say the Grandstand is because it's built new.   
When I come here, I always have memories of when I was a kid.  Sometimes I walk down the streets I walked down when I was a little kid.  Everything feels so much smaller.  It's a very interesting feeling.   
But every time I come here, I'm very happy.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT