ROLAND GARROS
June 1, 2018
Naomi Osaka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
M. KEYS/N. Osaka   
6-1, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You were a set and a break down and then found a place to get going.  How did you do that?  
NAOMI OSAKA: I'm not really sure.  I just thought to myself that, even if I lose, I don't want to have any regrets or anything, and I want to try to keep fighting until the last point.   
 Q.  And can you now say that?  
NAOMI OSAKA: Yeah.  I mean, of course I feel like there was a moment where maybe the me from before, the younger me, would have just accepted that I was losing.  But now I'm not sad, because normally I would be very sad at this point.   
But I'm just looking forward to the next tournaments and the next matches I can play, because I feel like this match taught me a lot.   
 Q.  So even especially the first of the two set points looked like the better one for you, even allowing for that, you feel positive?  
NAOMI OSAKA: What do you mean?  I'm sorry.   
 Q.  It's okay.  Thank you.  
NAOMI OSAKA: Okay.   
 Q.  Bad luck today.  Why did you start so slowly?  Did you think there was any reason why you were a bit slow getting going today?  
NAOMI OSAKA: I don't really think there's a real reason.  I just feel like I wasn't comfortable moving on the clay.  Like, I would make one push, and then, suddenly, I would be sort of tipping over or something.   
But I wouldn't say there's an exact reason.   
 Q.  It was different weather today.  It was cooler.  Did the clay play any differently?  Was it less slidey or more slippy, or I don't know.  
NAOMI OSAKA: No.  I think it was more slippery today.  But I wouldn't be exactly the clay court expert to tell you that so...   
 Q.  Talking about that, then, are you looking ahead forward now?  You're looking forward to the grass?  
NAOMI OSAKA: Of course.   
 Q.  What is it about grass tennis that you particularly enjoy?  
NAOMI OSAKA: Well, I haven't really played a lot of grass tennis, so I think that's one of the main reasons I'm looking forward to it.  Because I feel like the way that I play, it should be suited for grass.   
And I did okay in Wimbledon last year.  So I just kind of want to see how I'm going to do in the next weeks.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT