ROLAND GARROS
May 30, 2018
Naomi Osaka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
N. OSAKA/Z. Diyas   
6-4, 7-5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.   
 Q.  How has it been so far in Paris and how are you feeling on this court so far?  
NAOMI OSAKA: Well, I don't really consider the French Open like clay, sort of, to be honest.  Because I've gone to the third round here before, and I'm not really sure.   
But in my mind, it's not really clay-clay.  So if that answers your question.  Sorry.   
 Q.  That's all right.  Now I'm confused.  If it's not really clay, just explain a little bit more what do you mean by that?  Is it just because this tournament is so big so you're not thinking about the surface?  You're thinking about something else?  
NAOMI OSAKA: Yeah.  I mean, just in general because I tend to be better in Grand Slams.  And I think I just focus more on the tennis part rather than making up excuses of what the surface is and how my play style isn't suited for it or whatever.   
So I think, for here, my main priority is always to do really well and play great matches, and I think that that sort of gets rid of the fact that it's clay court.   
 Q.  I'm not quite sure about the third round opponent yet.  I think it's going to be Dolehide or Keys.  Could you just give us a quick look ahead to those two?  Especially against Madison, it would be two not really traditional-play players playing against each other on clay.  So it might be an interesting one.  
NAOMI OSAKA: What are you trying to say? (Laughing.)   
 Q.  I'm not saying anything.  
NAOMI OSAKA: Well, I've played both of them before and they're both really good players.   
I've played Madison -- the last time I played her was last year in Indian Wells.  And, of course, I know how great of a player she is.  And I have never beaten her, so there's that.   
And also I played Dolehide, I think, in Stanford, and she's also -- they're both really good serves.  I think that's the main thing I take away from that.   
And other than that, I'm not trying to overthink too much.   
 Q.  You were talking about the Slams and one of the parts of tennis is there are four different Grand Slams, very different.  Which one is your most favorite and which one is not your most favorite?  
NAOMI OSAKA: You're kind of mean, like, with that question.  (Laughing.)   
 Q.  No.  
NAOMI OSAKA: I think my most favorite would be the one that I win.  And I think the least favorite -- I don't think I've played them enough to know.  So I would have to play a couple more times and then you can ask me that again.   
 Q.  So which one do you think you'll win first?  
NAOMI OSAKA: Well, hopefully this one, because I'm here right now.   
 Q.  Because you like to have your, I guess, personal time and your time maybe away from the big crowds, how much time do you actually spend here on site, the tournament site, with the matches, and how much time do you spend on the practice venues a little bit shielded from the huge masses of people out there?  
NAOMI OSAKA: Well, I'm only here if I have to be, to be honest, like, if I have a match or something and just to eat lunch.   
And even if -- like, before, when I was younger, I used to love walking around and just experiencing the atmosphere.  But now, like, I just sort of think of this as my job, so it's like clocking in and clocking out.   
But hoping to spend as little time as possible.   
 Q.  Did you bring your PlayStation about you?  
NAOMI OSAKA: Yeah.  (Laughing.)   
 Q.  How important is that to sort of getting your mind right and just staying happy and everything while you're away?  
NAOMI OSAKA: Well, I can't really answer, to be fair, because I only started traveling with it in Miami.  So Indian Wells, I didn't have it.   
For me, it's just sometimes I'm really bored in my room, and I feel like I really want to play a game or something, so that's why I started bringing it.   
And now it's sort of consumed my time a little bit because any -- like, literally, if I have 30 minutes, then I'll just sit there, and I might be a little bit late.  Like, I'll spend 35 minutes, and then I'm like, Oh, my God.  It's 30 minutes past, and then I have to rush out the door.   
So if I'm ever late to anything, you know why.  (Smiling.)   
 Q.  So you play it here?  
NAOMI OSAKA: Of course.   
 Q.  What are you playing?  
NAOMI OSAKA: A game called Skyrim.   
 Q.  Called?  
NAOMI OSAKA: Skyrim.  It's okay if you don't know it.  (Laughter.)   
 Q.  I'll ask my kids when I get home.  Any good?  
NAOMI OSAKA: Of course.  I wouldn't be playing a bad game.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT