ROLAND GARROS
May 28, 2018
Naomi Osaka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
N. OSAKA/S. Kenin   
6-2, 7-5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  How were you able to change around that second set?  How do you feel about your match today?  
NAOMI OSAKA: Well, I just think I was really nervous throughout this whole match.  And then, like, after, when she was, like, taking a bathroom break, I was just -- I think I started overthinking a lot, and then that's why she got to 5-1 so quickly.   
But then, at that point, I was able to calm myself down and just play the way that I should have the entire match.   
 Q.  When you say "nerves" is it just the typical first-round nerves of the tournament, or is there any other reason you feel you were nervous today?  
NAOMI OSAKA: No, I think it's the first-round nerves, but also, I have never been seeded before, so I think that added a little bit of pressure.  But, I mean, it's not nothing new, this type of feeling.  I just have to find a way to overcome it.   
 Q.  Couple of big names went on the first day.  Do you feel like there is a real chance to go far in the tournament?  
NAOMI OSAKA: I don't look at the draw.  I just look at who I'm playing, so I don't know who, like...   
 Q.  You said this is the first time you have been seeded.  Do you then feel I have to play better or I have to play in a certain way and be more spectacular and make more winners?  
NAOMI OSAKA: No.  I don't think like that.  I feel like if I play within myself that's when I play the best.   
I think before maybe when I was younger I had to make all these amazing winners and sort of entertain the crowd, but as I got older, I just feel like even if I do the bare minimum, just knowing how to win while doing the least is more important, a little bit, for me.   
 Q.  You had your great result in Indian Wells.  How have things changed?  In any way have things changed for you since that big breakthrough for you?  
NAOMI OSAKA: Well, for me, I don't really -- like, I keep myself in a bubble so I don't really see too much.  But I think this is my first time in this room, I think that's changed (smiling).   
And also, I feel like a lot of support from the crowd, and I'm really grateful for that.   
 Q.  How does it feel to be called the "coolest thing in tennis"?  
NAOMI OSAKA: That's so embarrassing (smiling).  I think if they wanted to title it something, they should have titled it the "most awkward person in tennis."   
If that's how they feel, then I'll take it, but I don't think that I'm going to -- with that title, I don't think I'm that person.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT