U.S. OPEN
September 2, 2016
Naomi Osaka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








M. KEYS/N. Osaka
7-5, 4-6, 7-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Obviously wasn't the result you were looking for, but what did you make of the experience, being out there on Arthur Ashe Stadium?
NAOMI OSAKA: I thought it was kind of fun.  I know the crowd was against me.  That was, like, a bit frustrating.
But, yeah, I grew up watching the players I liked play on this court.  As an experience, it was very nice.
Q. Was it particularly loud?
NAOMI OSAKA: Not really.  I mean, I expect people to be that loud when, like, the top American woman is playing, so...
Q. What went through your mind when you were leading 5-1 and she was coming back?
NAOMI OSAKA: Well, at 5-1 I was just very nervous.  I kind of wanted to close it out.  I felt like I could, like, rely on my serve at that point, because I think she was serving at 5-1.  It didn't really bother me that she held serve at that time.
But it really started freaking me out when she was, like, going 5-2, 5-3, 5-4, those times.  But yeah...
Q. Serving at 5-2 and 5-4, what was going through your mind that made you nervous?
NAOMI OSAKA: Well, I felt like she had a good service return, so I felt that sometimes when I hit hard serves she would use my power.  It was bouncing in my mind between, like, going for a serve and just placing it.
So I felt like I couldn't fully focus on what to do after my serve.  I was just sort of reacting the whole time, so...
Q. Before that you played with so much poise in the second set.  What was going through your mind in the second set?
NAOMI OSAKA: I'm just generally better when the other person's leading.  I don't know.  I feel like the pressure's off me.  If she's leading I just have to focus on the things that I have to do and not worry too much about the outcome 'cause she's, like, higher ranked than me and sort of expected to win, so...
In the second set I was just a bit free.
Q. Any particular points you regret that would make everything turn around?
NAOMI OSAKA: I think I hit a very ridiculous volley at 30-All, 5-4.  Yikes.  I think if I made that I would have gotten a match point.  I don't really regret anything, if you're going to say that.  Just I'm a bit disappointed.
Q. Young players come into the game optimistic and then tough things happen.  Do you think this will set you back or bother you?
NAOMI OSAKA: Honestly, I actually feel this is a good, like, match for me because I haven't really been playing that well for this whole hard court season.  Like just to be able to get to the third round here is positive.
Like, as the match as a whole I feel like -- honestly, I just played doubles right now, so I feel like if I didn't play doubles maybe I would be more negative about the situation.
But I had so much fun out there, like, I just think tennis is a game, so I just have to enjoy everything and see how it goes, so...
Q. In Australia you said you actually like losing because you learn more from that.
NAOMI OSAKA: Yeah.
Q. Could you say what you think you will learn from today's experience.
NAOMI OSAKA: Well, I feel like if I had more set patterns or something to fall back on, because I feel like she was sort of commanding the whole match a little bit.  I was just pushing it back, seeing what she would do, if she would hit it out or not.
Yeah, so I feel like if I had a better plan, then at 5-1 I wouldn't have freaked out and been like, What do I do at this point?
Q. How much at this point in your career is about getting experience and getting those reps in?
NAOMI OSAKA: Well, this is, like, my first full year on the tour.  I was kind of injured throughout clay and grass.  I mean, going to those tournaments for the first time, it's like an experience, I guess.
I mean, I wouldn't really say, like, it's new, though, you know what I mean?  'Cause a court is a court no matter where you go.
But, I mean -- what am I even talking about?  Sorry.
I mean to say, like, getting experience is good, but I feel like if you're a really good player it wouldn't really matter if the place is new or if you're traveling or whatever.
I'm sorry.  Oh, my God.  Yeah, I'm sorry.  That doesn't make sense.
Okay, so, like, experience is good and whatever, right?  But like not having experience, if you're good enough, it shouldn't really matter.  Okay?
Q. You're both power hitters.  Moving on, are you going to increase your net game?
NAOMI OSAKA: Yeah, honestly, I'm very comfortable on the baseline.  Like moving in is a bit nerve-wracking for me.  So I feel like, yeah, if I practice stepping in a bit more and being better at the net, then I think I would be more aggressive, so...
Q. You're born in Japan, you're Japanese, and I'm sure you feel that is wonderful.  Your pop is Haitian.  Do you ever say to yourself, I have a lot of American qualities; it would be nice if the American crowd were more supportive of me?  Does that ever cross your mind?
NAOMI OSAKA: The last match I played before this match there was like quite a big crowd that were cheering for me.  I mean, that was nice.  But I don't expect them to cheer for me, especially since I was playing Madison.
I mean, it's nice if they cheer for me, but if they don't I understand, so...






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT