AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 20, 2018
Naomi Osaka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
N. OSAKA/A. Barty   
6-4, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What did you do well that helped you win that match?  
NAOMI OSAKA: That was fast.  That was a fast question (smiling).   
I think I was very positive and I just tried to stick to my game mainly, so...   
 Q.  How much of an effort was that positivity?  5-1, you missed a shot, but then you had this big smile.  Seemed like you were actively trying to be positive all the time.  
NAOMI OSAKA: Yeah, I mean, I was just thinking I don't really have that many opportunities to play in front of such a big crowd, like, such a really good atmosphere.   
Ashleigh, she's been playing really well.  I feel like I shouldn't get upset if I lose a point because she's one of the best players in the world.   
Yeah, I just tried to have fun but also remain focused.   
 Q.  How was the venue switch for you, from Laver to Margaret Court?  Did that disrupt you at all?  
NAOMI OSAKA: No, because I was playing on Court 10 and Court 7.  Like any court with a stadium, I think any stadium court for me, I'm always happy to play on it.   
 Q.  Her first two matches were against hard-hitters.  Did you sense at all she was a little worn out, you could run her, dictate play?  
NAOMI OSAKA: Well, I don't really think I hit that hard, to be honest (smiling).  I'm always a little bit surprised when people say that because it's not really my intention.  I don't go into the match saying, I'm going to hit as hard as I can.   
Who did she play in the first round?   
 Q.  Sabalenka, then Giorgi.  
NAOMI OSAKA: I'm sure both of them probably hit harder than me.  I mean, I know she played doubles yesterday, too.  That was a factor in my mind.  I didn't really want to focus too much on that, so...   
 Q.  You made the fourth round for the first time here.  Is it something special or important for you?  
NAOMI OSAKA: I feel like last year it would have been, but this year I'm really trying to focus on certain things.  I'm grateful, but I'm, like, I don't want to stop here, if you know what I mean.   
 Q.  If you're not stopping here, next up is Halep.  What are your thoughts on that match?  She had a long one today.  Kicked you off your court.  
NAOMI OSAKA: Yeah, I was sweating more watching that match than I was with my match (smiling).   
But, yeah, I've played her twice, and both times it was three sets.  I had fun both times.  I feel like I learned a lot.  I feel playing the No. 1 is really an honor.  No matter what happens, I'll try my best.  I'll just see what happens from there.   
 Q.  How did you pick Sascha as your coach?  
NAOMI OSAKA: Okay, so the first time we practiced, I just was, like, Oh 'I'm nervous.'  He's, like, with Serena for such a long time.  I really like Serena.  So I'm like, Oh.   
Then we practiced.  He twisted his ankle, so we couldn't really do much.  Then I had to fly to Japan.  So that wasn't really a good thing.   
But, yeah, I mean, he's really positive.  I feel like he's been on the tour for a super long time, so he knows what he's doing.  Our personalities match a lot.  So, yeah, that's how.   
 Q.  Did he twist his ankle while he was hitting with you?  
NAOMI OSAKA: Yeah.   
 Q.  Did you dropshot him or something?  
NAOMI OSAKA: No.  He was running like this, and then I hit here, then he was like, then he fell because he's really big.  Yeah, then I thought he was joking, because he had the ankle guards on.  He just turned really red (smiling).   
Yeah, it turned out he, like, tore his ligament or something.   
 Q.  You were responsible for tearing his ligament, and you aced Roger.  What is it with you playing really good players?  
NAOMI OSAKA: Well, Sascha is going to take that as a compliment if you're saying he's as good as Roger.   
I don't know.  I feel like the way that I am, I want to play tennis to play the better players, but I don't consider Sascha one of them (smiling).   
But, yeah, honestly the only reason -- the only thing I wanted to do during the mixed doubles was ace him.  That was my only goal.  I didn't care if we got bageled or anything.  So I'm really glad I was able to do that.   
 Q.  How do you think you have improved during the off-season?  What did you work on?  
NAOMI OSAKA: Well, I think I got fitter.  We did a lot of fitness during the off-season.  I was just mainly focusing on consistency and just mindset most importantly.   
 Q.  Mindset, how did you work on that?  
NAOMI OSAKA: Hmm.  It was really hard, to be honest, because when you play, especially against really good players...   
See, I think I was down on my serve Love-30, like, every few games.  Normally, well, you would think the game is basically over a little bit, and get really upset.  But I tried to think positive and stuff.  So I think that's how I helped myself in that area.   
 Q.  You said you and Sascha's personalities are a good match.  How so?  
NAOMI OSAKA: He's crazy.  Yeah, I mean, he's really sarcastic.  He's, I feel, like one of the few people that gets my jokes now.  In the beginning he was really, like, Whoa.  But now I think he gets it.  We have, like, a banter going on.   
 Q.  How would you define your humor?  
NAOMI OSAKA: Ha-ha-ha.  I want to say you have to use your brain to get it.  But I think it's also, like, sarcastic-y, like out of nowhere, like boom.   
 Q.  How is it sarcastic-y?  
NAOMI OSAKA: 'Cause it just is.  It's, like, out, Bam, in front of you.  You have to be like, Did she really just say that, sort of thing.   
 Q.  Is this the opposite of your tennis?  Your tennis is pretty clear.  
NAOMI OSAKA: Is it?   
 Q.  Yes.  
NAOMI OSAKA: Would you describe it to me?   
 Q.  Yes, I will.  
NAOMI OSAKA: Please do.   
 Q.  It's very forceful, assertive.  
NAOMI OSAKA: Is it?   
 Q.  Yes.  
NAOMI OSAKA: Thank you.  I hope that's a compliment.   
 Q.  It is.  
NAOMI OSAKA: Thanks.   
 Q.  Who on the circuit gets your humor the most or the best?  
NAOMI OSAKA: So Monica is getting it a little bit.  I think she is.  I hope she is because, honestly, if I say something that messes, like, that friendship up, I'm going to be a little bit sad.   
But, yeah, I think Monica gets it.  I don't really talk to people, so she's like one of the few friends that I have.  Because outspoken people I'm good with because I don't really have to say much.  If it's like we both have to talk, then I'm kind of scared.   
 Q.  Have you talked to Kyrgios about that mix-up that happened to you?  
NAOMI OSAKA: Huh?   
 Q.  Where someone thought you were Kyrgios.  
NAOMI OSAKA: In Perth.   
 Q.  Did you ever talk to him about that?  
NAOMI OSAKA: I saw him at the Yonex thingy.  I didn't speak to him because you know how I am.  I just said hi.  That's it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT