CHINA OPEN
September 29, 2019
Naomi Osaka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








N. OSAKA/J. Pegula
6-3, 7-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. There was some visible frustration during this match, in particular in the second set. Can you take me through your mindset during that.
NAOMI OSAKA: Yeah, I mean, for me, I don't know, like during tournaments, the first match is always the worst for me. But I was kind of expecting it to be better because I just kind of played really well in Tokyo. I don't know, I thought it would carry on.
I was a little bit frustrated that I felt my game wasn't really where I left it. Yeah, that was kind of what I was thinking.
Q. How did you try to cope with the frustration? Was there a moment where you tried to be calm?
NAOMI OSAKA: I mean, for me, I just felt like this match, I was kind of living in the moment every point. I wasn't really thinking too much in the future, too much in the past.
I just felt like today I was really riled up. Not really sure why. Yeah, something that I had to kind of deal with the entire match.
Q. Has the title in Tokyo changed the mindset for the end of this season? Has it given you a push? Maybe not more ambitions, but feeling more eager to win at the end of this season? Or it hasn't changed anything?
NAOMI OSAKA: Hasn't really changed anything. I've always played well in Tokyo. I've always been kind of vocal that I've wanted to win it. That's just one of accomplishment that I wanted to do. I'm kind of just taking it step by step from there.
Q. The coaching situation, are you going to end the season just with your father or are you in touch with other people? Have you some plans for next season?
NAOMI OSAKA: No, I mean, I'm ending it with my dad. Like, it's pretty good so far. Yeah, I feel like it would be too rushed to, like, bring someone on right now anyways. It's pretty much gearing towards the end, so...
Q. You've been world No. 1. Quite a few players have been No. 1, bounced between a few players in recent years. Is there a kind of relief in not having that number hanging over your head, you kind of become a target, everyone wants to take down the top player?
NAOMI OSAKA: Yeah, I mean, it's kind of weird. It's like one of those things that you don't really appreciate it until it's not there any more. Of course, for me it felt like a lot of responsibilities and pressures that came with that. At the same time that's the end goal. You don't really play tournaments to be ranked No. 4 or 5. You play to be No. 1 in the world. I think everyone wants that position.
I don't know, that's what I'm working towards right now.
Q. I think you said in a press conference you feel stressed when you're playing someone for the first time. How was that today? Did you feel pressure or stressed?
NAOMI OSAKA: No, I felt very stressed today. Again, I think it's because I just came off Toray. Everyone's telling me about, like, You can qualify in Shenzhen. That's on my mind, too. I also didn't want to lose in the first round.
I was very nervous today. She kind of played much better in the second set. That was something that I had to get used to. At the same time I knew that she was capable of playing really well because she won D.C. It was just sort of navigating those things.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT