THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 1, 2019
Naomi Osaka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Y. PUTINTSEVA/N. Osaka   
7-6, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  She's been a difficult opponent for you in the past.  What makes her so tough?  
NAOMI OSAKA: She mixes the ball up really well.   
 Q.  Obviously going out there and playing on Centre Court, how did you find your game playing on that court?  What did you find that worked well, what didn't work well?  Were you surprised?  
NAOMI OSAKA: I mean, I just don't think I played that well.  But I wasn't surprised because I've played her, like, twice already.   
 Q.  The WTA Tour, so many people winning titles, does this make a loss in the first round feel any competent in any way?  
NAOMI OSAKA: If my loss in the first round feels competent?   
 Q.  Because in women's tennis, so many people can win.  Does it feel any less?  
NAOMI OSAKA: No.  That makes me feel worse because now there's going to be more people that are saying, like, you know, exactly what you're saying.  So, no, it doesn't make me feel better.   
 Q.  When you play someone who you lost to so recently, how hard is it not to have that in your head?  
NAOMI OSAKA: How hard is it not to have that in my head?  Very hard.  I don't know how to answer that.   
 Q.  The split from your coach has correlated in a change of form.  Is there any link do you believe in that or is it just a coincidence?  
NAOMI OSAKA: I don't think it's related at all.   
 Q.  What do you maybe put it down to?  Is it that you're young, it can be difficult to be consistent at this age?  
NAOMI OSAKA: I wouldn't blame my age on anything.  I've done a lot of good things.  I've done a lot of bad things.  But I'm not the type of person that would say because I'm young I can get away with doing certain things, so...   
 Q.  How do you go about sort of restoring your confidence after this?  What do you do over the next few days to pick yourself up?  Who helps you do that?  
NAOMI OSAKA: I don't know.  There is answers to questions that you guys ask that I still haven't figured out yet.   
 Q.  With the way that you were practicing leading up to this tournament, hitting the ball, were you hitting as well as you liked going into this match in practices and stuff?  
NAOMI OSAKA: I mean, practice to a certain point, yeah.  Like, I feel like I should have been able to play well today because I wasn't practicing bad.   
You never know what's going to happen during matches.   
 Q.  What has been the key for you in the past in bouncing back from defeats?  How might that help you now?  
NAOMI OSAKA: I mean, the key for me was just, like, having fun, I guess, like learning how to have fun, kind of taking pressure off myself.  I hope I can somehow find a way to do that.   
 Q.  Has it been difficult to get used to the new level of fame that you have?  You've pretty much become a global superstar over the past few months.  
NAOMI OSAKA: Can I leave?  I feel like I'm about to cry.   
THE MODERATOR: Okay.   
I'm sorry, we have to leave it there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT