WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC: 1ST ROUND POOL B
March 10, 2017
Hiroki Kokubo
Yoshitomo Tsutsugoh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JAPAN 7, China 1
Q. You won three games in a row for the first round.  What's in your mind right now?
HIROKI KOKUBO: Yes, the first couple innings was a difficult moment, so that's why we changed the lineup a little bit.  And also, I used some of the bullpen pitchers who didn't pitch yet.  These guys worked very well.
Q. The first round, you played three games.  Let me ask you about the defense and the pitching.  How do you feel about your defense?
HIROKI KOKUBO: Yes, the pitchers, they are working very nice and I am a positive feeling for the pitchers.  I feel that the pitchers are good condition, and the most big thing is the catcher, Kobayashi.  He told me that he's not used to it, but to me, he is very confident.  The pitcher, catcher combination is good.  Also, I'm proud of Kikuchi's defense.  He's such a spectacular infielder.
Q. How do you feel about the offense?
HIROKI KOKUBO: Yes, the guy next to me, Tsutsugoh, he hit the huge home run.  To be honest with you, I didn't expect to hit so much home runs.  That was more than I expect.  But Nakata also hit one tonight.
And we know that we are going to have tough games for the second round.  So I'm expecting all my players to be as hot as they are right now.
Q. Tsutsugoh just won the MVP of the tournament.  How do you feel about him?
HIROKI KOKUBO: Yes, he is -- I don't send any signs for the clean-up guy.  His job is just get RBIs, and he just did what exactly I was expecting for him.
Q. Day after tomorrow, round two starts.  What's the most important thing for round two, second round?
HIROKI KOKUBO: Starting pitcher, without a doubt.  We have a pitching count up to 80, so the starter goes to the fifth inning, maybe.  And also the pitching switch is more important.
Q. Congratulations on the MVP.  How do you feel about the three games of the first round?
YOSHITOMO TSUTSUGOH: The result was good, and I know that we have tough games.  The first round is gone, so I just prepare for the second round.
Q. The first game, you got an RBI single and you hit home runs back-to-back.  How do you feel about your offense and how do you feel about your swing right now?
YOSHITOMO TSUTSUGOH: Yes, I am very smooth and I feel confident of what I'm swinging.
Q. So far, you are the clean-up hitter for Team Japan.  As of your view, what's the strong point for Team Japan for the second round?
YOSHITOMO TSUTSUGOH: All the hitters are very good and talented and they just get together.  Some have speed, some have extra base power, and I know it's tough to get the second run, but let's stick together and play hard.
Q. Day after tomorrow, round two starts.  How do you prepare for yourself?
HIROKI KOKUBO: Yes, the most important thing is Japan wins, so I just try to contribute for the team's win.
Q. The starting pitcher Takeda is a bit unstable in my view.  Do you think you might change your starting pitching rotation?
HIROKI KOKUBO: Yes, well, talking about Takeda, starting pitcher, I don't think about it yet for the whole tournament.  I just wanted to prepare for the next game, which is against Team Netherlands.
Q. You put all the players, most of the old players on the field today.  Do you have any plans to change the roster or anything for the second round?
HIROKI KOKUBO: Are you asking about changing the roster or the lineups?  Yes, I did exactly what I want to do, and it's good for me to confirm.  That's how I learned from today's contest.
Q. You just played three games, and you just mentioned that the catcher, Kobayashi, seems like he's become the ace catcher of Team Japan.
HIROKI KOKUBO: Yes, he's got a great arm, but that's what everybody recognizes.  Last November, he played for me, and the behavior as a catcher, these are the things I like.  So I didn't expect, though, for him to hit a home run.  That was a surprise, but I'm happy.
Q. So far, you played like the Premiere 12, you played the WBC for three games.  Is it any different than others?  And I have another question.  Whenever you go on to the field in defense, you always talk with Aoki.  What kind of advice have you got from Aoki?
YOSHITOMO TSUTSUGOH: Yes, personally, I don't evaluate which game is more important or which is less important.  The game is just a game.  But the all game is legal.
Q. Yesterday before you just hit a home run, it seems like you talked with Aoki for a long time.  What kind of conversation was it?
YOSHITOMO TSUTSUGOH: Yes, he was asking me, how do I feel about my hitting, and I was asking -- I told him I was behind the timing.  So this is the things I spoke with Aoki, talk with Aoki last night.
Q. Your second pitcher, Fujinami, how do you feel about Fujinami, is he going to be in the bullpen again or as a starter?  How do you use Fujinami?
HIROKI KOKUBO: Well, his location is not as bad -- well, he didn't get the right grip for a couple pitches.  But that's one of his strong points.  I will think about it in the future for Fujinami's play, role.
Q. For the second round, do you have any plans to substitute any players on the roster?
HIROKI KOKUBO: Like I said, I don't have any changes to the roster, and we don't have any players injured.  So no roster moves.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT