AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: YANKEES v RANGERS
October 20, 2010
Jorge Posada
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. We talk so much about how calm Andy is before starts like this; how was CC in the hours leading up to this one? 
 JORGE POSADA: CC is always the same. That's one of the best things about CC. He doesn't look like he's pitching that day, just sitting down on the couch and just watching a little bit of TV and really talking to everybody. 

 Q. You've been on both sides of teams coming from way back in the series, how quickly does the pressure start to mount on the team that's ahead, like, oh, man, we don't want to blow this thing? 
 JORGE POSADA: You know, as a losing team, you try and do things that you're not supposed to be doing. As a winning team, you look forward to everything. So you know, the reason why we are able to win today is the way CC pitched, and you look forward to that start, and I think CC did. 

 Q. You didn't get the opportunity to play last night, and now you're back and it's an elimination game. How much of a responsibility do you take as a core member of this team to really kind of go -- I don't know if extra mile is the right word, but today you were running the bases hard, you got them going with the big base hit early. How do you feel about that? 
 JORGE POSADA: You know, it's tough to sit down in the bench. You know, I think you have to be prepared and you have to be ready. And today I was back in there again.
 I take a lot of pride in what I do. I have fun playing the game, and I'm still having a lot of fun. You know, today is a perfect example of having fun and let things come to you a little bit. 

 Q. You've been on teams in this situation that lost; do you view today, is this a character statement about you guys or just a baseball win? 
 JORGE POSADA: It's a baseball win. You know, we've got to climb and we've got to get out of the hole we got ourselves into. 
 If we keep pitching the way we pitched today; we haven't pitched the way we need to, and today CC went out there and did what he was supposed to do, give us a chance to win. 

 Q. One of the comments that was made earlier was that you make adjustments, and now you're getting used to the Texas hitters. What kind of adjustments are you starting to make when you approach them? 
 JORGE POSADA: Behind the plate when I'm catching? Well, you know, once you play four or five games against a team, you see, obviously, the adjustments the hitters are trying to do. 
 The biggest thing is the location of our pitchers pitching. If they don't hit that spot, obviously it doesn't go your way. So location and changing speeds, all that stuff, it's part of the game. We haven't been able to do that. 

 Q. You've been in this position before, obviously, backs to the wall, how much did it help being in the situation before and to be relaxed and not let the pressure get to you?
 JORGE POSADA: I don't know if it helped, but we look forward to this -- one game at a time. So now we have a nice little day off and go at it again. But just one game at a time and don't get caught up in how the series is going right now. You know, we are still down 3-2, and we understand that, and we know that they have a very good team. It's going to be tough, but we are looking forward to it. 

 Q. Girardi said that he figured you would be a factor in this game, but not with your legs; that was not expected. He said the guys on the bench were kind of getting a kick out of it. Was that a by-product of just being aggressive on your part, being resourceful, taking advantage of their mistakes? 
 JORGE POSADA: I don't know if there was "guys". I know Derek was all over me. (Laughter.)
 You know what, Grandy hits the base hit and I pretty much thought that Francoeur is going to go home and try to take advantage and try to get to third base, even if they were coming towards me, get that run to score. And the ball gets away, and you know, I don't see anybody back there, because obviously he was backing up home plate and as soon as the ball hit, I was like, oh, God, and I got lucky and he threw it away. 
 But it's just -- I mean, not just seeing what I was seeing. Nobody is back there and trying to get to third, and then the ball gets away, and then all of a sudden you think you're going to get a chance to score. 

 Q. Girardi said he spoke to you guys after last night's game. Just wondering what sort of impact his words had on you. 
 JORGE POSADA: Just pretty much the same thing I'm telling you now. Take it one day at a time. Obviously you go back to the regular season, and you know, we have been able to win after losing three in a row. So that was what he was talking about. 

 Q. What do you think is one thing that Phil has to do better this time than he did last time? 
 JORGE POSADA: Same as CC. You know, location is important. And execute the pitches that we are going to call. Obviously we are going to go through a nice game plan and hopefully we can execute that. We haven't been able to until today. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT