AL DIVISION SERIES: ATHLETICS v YANKEES
October 13, 2001
Jorge Posada
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  The play at the bottom of the 7th, the bang, bang play, Jeter's toss, the whole thing, tell us what you saw.

JORGE POSADA:  I'm just hanging around, and he throws the ball over both cut-off men, and Jeter's job is to stay around and see if he's going to be the cut-off man to go to the guy on third or hang around to go to home plate.  He sees the ball in the air and flips it to me.  And I just go -- I go all or nothing to try to tag him, and I got him on the leg on the way down?

Q.  Can you talk about the home run, the pitch you got, how gratifying was it to get the lead you hadn't had all season?

JORGE POSADA:  I got a pitch, it was a fastball, middle in, and just put the ball in play.  I was trying to stay back on him, and he did a great job to keep us off balance all day.  And that was the only run.  And Mussina was amazing.

Q.  The way Mussina was pitching, did it feel like that one run was going to be enough?

JORGE POSADA:  No, I thought we were going to get more runs.  I thought -- you look back at the game, I didn't think 1-0 was going to be the end result.  But Mussina threw well.

Q.  How did your thoughts change as you saw that ball sail over Soriano and Martinez?

JORGE POSADA:  Well, I was hoping that the ball was thrown hard enough that it would get all the way towards me, especially if we turned the ball to Soriano, we would have had the guy by a long ways.  And Jeter comes in and flips it.  I really thought if Jeter didn't catch the ball, I really thought we had a pretty good chance to get the guy out at home.

Q.  Are you seeing some of the best pitching right now, or are the hitters just clamming up a little bit?

JORGE POSADA:  We're seeing good pitching.  There's no doubt about it.  They did a great job the first -- Zito did a great job today.  I think it's just playoff games it seems like one run or two runs are enough.  Just the way the intensity is and the guys make every pitch count, every ball, every strike counts.  You take things for granted and you go out there and try to have a plan, but I think the three guys and Zito had a very good plan today.

Q.  Can you talk about El Duque a little bit, how healthy is he?

JORGE POSADA:  Well, last time he threw against Tampa he threw three innings -- I think it was four innings.  And he's one of those guys, he's got to be aggressive.  He's got to be able to settle down the first couple of innings, and after that he gets in a groove and he starts pitching well.  He's got to be aggressive.  He's got to pitch both sides of the corner.  He's got to be on top of his game.  These guys have a very good line-up.  And hopefully we can get him some runs early, so he can relax out there. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT