AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: RED SOX v YANKEES
October 18, 1999
Orlando Hernandez
Ramiro Mendoza
Jorge Posada
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: Thank you.

Q. El Duque, can you talk about tonight's game and what it meant to you to win this
particular game?

ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: It was very important because it helped the team to win the American
League Championship.

Q. Could he talk about the first inning and how he got out of trouble?

ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: He said he try to, you know, when he came out here, everything was
up in the zone. He made a little bit of an adjustment, it was falling to the first-base
side. He said, you know, that was a very important inning for him, coming out of that
inning with, you know, coming out with no runs. It was very important and helped the team
win, he thought.

Q. Jorge, what did you hit? And Ramiro, if El Duque was up, were you down with your
sinker?

JORGE POSADA: I hit a fast ball inside. It felt good. I can't tell you a lot about it.
RAMIRO MENDOZA: He said he feel good in the bullpen. He was throwing real low. His
sinker was real low in the zone. He wanted to pitch, went out, wanted to help out the
team. He got the opportunity to go in the game and he felt good in the bullpen, so he was
just doing what he was doing in the bullpen.

Q. How did it feel to get the save that clinches the pennant?

RAMIRO MENDOZA: He say it felt real good. You know, he was leaving the ball low and
going in the zone, like he said, and doing like he did in New York and trying to get a
ground ball. He feel real good, get the chance to go to the World Series like he did in
New York and he's, you know, he's very proud of what he's done.

Q. Ramiro, you showed a little more emotion after the end of that inning, when you gave
a little pump fist. Were you caught up in the moment more than you usually are?

RAMIRO MENDOZA: He said he felt proud, you know. The situation kind of dictated what he
was doing, but he said he felt proud; he felt good. He was doing what he did in New York,
just felt real good about himself.

Q. Jorge, will you talk a little bit about El Duque, just about how you think he has
developed the most?

JORGE POSADA: Well, he really likes his pressure situations. He comes out here and he
did it last year in Cleveland and ever since that day, he has stepped up and, you know, he
comes out there and he gives us a chance to win the game. He gave us strong innings. His
fast ball was jumping out of his hand. I was trying to call it a lot more. His curveball
was falling for a strike. He made the adjustments in the first inning, and, you know, it's
a lot of fun to see a guy so intense, so aggressive, throwing a lot of strikes. Makes it
easy for me to call a game because, you know, he wants the ball. He wants to be the guy.
He wants to take charge and that's what he did today.

Q. Orlando, two years ago you were in Havana and you couldn't even play baseball. I was
curious about whether you even think about that anymore, and how do you think about what
you've accomplished since then?

ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: He said, you know, he's really proud of, you know, the opportunity
he's got. You know, United States has given him a chance to, you know, to be El Duque
again. He's very happy and he's very proud that, you know, he's pitching in these
situations. And, you know, he couldn't say it better than -- or just -- I mean, I can't
tell you. He's just very happy that he's in this situation and helping the team go back to
the World Series.

Q. Can we hear from each one of the players what the difference in the series was?

JORGE POSADA: For us to win?

PHYLLIS MERHIGE: Difference between you and the Red Sox, I guess, that gave you the
edge.

JORGE POSADA: Can you repeat that?

PHYLLIS MERHIGE: Would you tell us what each of you thinks the difference in the series
is between the two teams?

ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: There's got to be a winner. He says playing the Red Sox -- they were
playing real tough. They came out there and they were very tough on the Yankees. You know,
but he's happy that, you know, it has come the way it has, but he's very happy that the
Red Sox play them the way they did. It brought the best out of them and of us.
RAMIRO MENDOZA: He said they were tough. The Red Sox were a very tough team. He said
they should be, you know, very proud about themselves because they played us tough. You
know, they got a lot to come next year. They're gonna be a tough team. So, you know, they
should hang their head high and, you know, he's happy that the Yankees are going back to
the World Series.

PHYLLIS MERHIGE: And you?

JORGE POSADA: I think the difference was pitching, no doubt. I mean pitching and we
played defense, we did the little things to win the games. And those close hits helped a
lot. A couple of the hits, I can't tell you -- but the main thing was the way the guys
pitched and the way the guys played defense behind our pitchers.

PHYLLIS MERHIGE: Thank you very much, gentlemen. Go back and celebrate.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT