MLB WORLD SERIES: PADRES v YANKEES
October 18, 1998
Jorge Posada
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Talk about the relationship that you developed with Orlando by catching him so much?

JORGE POSADA: I don't really like him -- I am just kidding. But I mean I can relate to
him because what he went through is just my father went through that too. My dad is Cuban
and I know it is tough for him. At the beginning it was very tough. He didn't know who to
-- I guess trust or, you know, it was tough for him. I try to help him and he didn't know
who to trust. I tried to help him in any way possible and he was at the beginning, he kind
of shied away but then he saw the guys that wanted to help him and I mean, he has come
along way since he got here and he has got a lot of friends here, a lot of guys want him
to do good. He is a wonderful story. Hopefully he will keep his career going like the way
it started.

Q. Can you describe what kind of game did he throw? Did he have his "A game"
tonight?

JORGE POSADA: What do you think? He was -- I mean, strike one, strike two, fastballs,
curve ball, change, kept the hitters off balance. A lot of lefties had -- the lineup was
full of lefties and he was impressive, you know, I didn't know -- I mean, you have to ask
some of the hitters because I see the ball just coming, but he is sneaky. He has got a
fastball that is sneaky and the angles he has got a lot of arm angles and he comes right
at you. He throws a lot of strikes and the runs helped him a lot too. He relaxed and he is
a lot of fun to catch.

Q. Does he do anything different stylistically or tactically that would indicate that
he is not a product of North American baseball?

JORGE POSADA: I don't think so. First of all, he is not a rookie out there. I mean, he
knows how to pitch. He had been in these situations, he knows how to get the guy out -- I
mean, get a strike out when he needs it. He knows when he gets in difficult situations,
what to throw. I mean, he showed it today. He was coming into lefties, going away to
lefties, into righties, away to righties. He had a good plan today and he followed it the
whole way. 

Q. How familiar is he really with these hitters, especially the Padre hitters and how
much does he go by instinct?

JORGE POSADA: I think he goes more with instinction, I mean he doesn't know any of
them. Just, you know, he saw David Wells pitch before and David Wells is a lefty, but he
went more with instincts, he went more with his game plan. He was going in with his
strength. That is what I was saying.

Q. Does he fool hitters and give them pitches that they think are strikes and are not
and pitches that are strikes that they think are not?

JORGE POSADA: I couldn't answer that one. I mean, I am not the hitter up there. I am
calling the game for him. I am trying to help him. But I couldn't answer that. I can tell
you, he had a good fastball today. That is all I called today. It was all fastballs at the
end.

Q. How did it feel to be explosive on the offensive end tonight from the perspective of
18 runs over two days for the Yankees?

JORGE POSADA: We got some clutch hits. That is the main -- that is why we won the last
two games. Hopefully we can still score some runs the next couple of games. I don't know
how many are going to take, but it is good to get some scoring and the pitching can relax
and the World Series it is going to be decided by pitching and defense, to score some runs
like this is a plus.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT