DAVIS CUP FINALS
November 20, 2019
Sergi Bruguera
Marcel Granollers
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








SPAIN 3, Croatia 0
BAUTISTA-AGUT/Mektic 6-1, 6-3
NADAL/Gojo 6-4, 6-3
GRANOLLERS-NADAL/Dodig-Pavic 6-3, 6-4
(Questions in Spanish.)
THE MODERATOR: Two questions in English.
Q. A question to Rafa. I'd like your thoughts on playing Borna Gojo today. It was very tough in the first set, it was 4-All and then afterwards you were able to find the game and put a distance between yourself and Gojo. How tough is it to play a player for the first time, to get to know what are his strengths, weaknesses? Did you have time to discuss with Sergi and the others regarding the strengths of Gojo?
RAFAEL NADAL: No, it's not about playing against a player for the first time. It is about playing against a player for the first time and a player who played well, honestly, no? He played well because his serve was huge and it was difficult. I make two mistakes in the first game when I had the chances for a break. And that's it.
Then the things became very difficult. Happy to be through in straight sets. The second set I think I played a little bit better than the first. So have been a positive one.
Q. (Off microphone.)
RAFAEL NADAL: I don't know, how old is him?
Q. 21.
RAFAEL NADAL: That's it?
He has a good serve, very good flat shots from the baseline. So he will have a chance to be a good player.
Q. Talking about the calendar and the problem with the Davis Cup. Do you think as a member of the Player Council of the ATP, maybe you have a view, there is some talk or there is some possibility to merge the ATP Cup and the Davis Cup?
RAFAEL NADAL: I don't see another way, honestly. No, I don't see -- I don't see two World Cups in one month on our calendar. That's something that I personally don't see.
I cannot talk for the ATP. I cannot talk for the other players. But, personally, we have an opportunity to finally have a great competition.
It's important, in my opinion, to share efforts between ATP and ITF. And at the same time, have an important company that is able to work hard to bring this competition to the next level, like Kosmos.
So if you're asking my -- I cannot talk for the others -- but my personal opinion is, there is no other way than have only one big, big competition. ATP, ITF, Kosmos, Davis Cup, World Cup. Doesn't matter the name. I think Davis Cup is the right name because it's part of the history of our sport. And it will be great if we are able to put everything together.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT