ROLAND GARROS
May 30, 2015
Sloane Stephens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  S. STEPHENS/T. Pironkova  6-4, 6-1    THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   Q.  Really impressive effort from you today.  Talk about how you felt out there on court.  SLOANE STEPHENS: Yeah, I played pretty solid.  Obviously she's a tough player, so I knew I had to come out and play some good tennis. I was able to just make a lot of shots and stay in it, so I was happy with that.   Q.  This tournament overall, do you feel like you've worked your way into it?  We've seen you play pretty solid tennis throughout.  How are you feeling overall with three wins under your belt?  SLOANE STEPHENS: Yeah, I'm feeling good.  Obviously I had a good week last week.  Coming into here I was feeling good, and I'm playing solid and making a lot of good strides in the right direction. I'm happy with that.   Q.  Just about the last month you've been playing much better overall.  Why?  SLOANE STEPHENS: I wouldn't say I have been playing much better, but I've definitely been a little bit more consistent.  I've just been at ease with my game knowing what I have to do, and I've been executing a lot better.   Q.  You talked about it a lot, but coming to Roland Garros, I think it's your fourth year in a row you've gotten to the second week, which is never easy.  Why for you?  Why is it so good here?  SLOANE STEPHENS: I don't have the formula for it.  I just know that I love clay.  I love playing here.  I've always played well here, even in the juniors. For me, Roland Garros works.   Q.  So you'll play the winner of Serena or Vika.  Talk about that.  Obviously you know them well.  SLOANE STEPHENS: Either way it'll be a good match and I'm looking forward to it.   Q.  What will you have to do to win?  SLOANE STEPHENS: Play my game.   Q.  Playing great?  What?  Just a little more on that.  SLOANE STEPHENS: Just play my game.   Q.  You've been to the fourth round of majors before.  Is this something you look forward to, Okay, I really want to take this match against a high-profile player and bring my A game so I can do X?  Or is it just another match?  SLOANE STEPHENS: Every match you got to go in there and play it like you're playing a high-profile player, like you're playing the No. 1 person in the world.  Every time you step on the court. Looking forward to it.  It'll be the fourth round of the French Open, and I think it'll be a great match.   Q.  Do you look back, like Matt was saying, to what you've done here in years past and that gives you confidence when you go to Paris each year?  SLOANE STEPHENS: No.  Like I said, no formula.  Just I love clay.  I love the courts here.  Like I said, it works for me.   Q.  Will you and Nick sit down and talk through the Xs and Os for whoever you end up facing?  How do you prepare for what's next?  SLOANE STEPHENS: Like I do every single match.  No, I'm not changing anything.  Just staying the same.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT