ROLAND GARROS
May 28, 2015
Sloane Stephens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  S. STEPHENS/H. Watson6-2, 6-4THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.Q. Obviously been a tough opponent for you before.  What do you think?  You were able to turn it around pretty convincingly today.  What was the key?SLOANE STEPHENS: Yeah, I thought I came out and was aggressive and tried to play the best I could.  Obviously executed really well my shots and I stayed pretty consistent throughout, so that was good.Q. You do well here.  What do you think about the clay here?  Could you describe your feelings about clay and just the looks of it and that sort of thing?SLOANE STEPHENS: Yeah, it's a great tournament.  Great court.  I mean, this is probably the best red clay you'll ever play on in your whole life.  I think here it's easy to slide.  It's easy to get around.  I mean, it's everything you would dream of if you had to play on a clay court. To play here obviously is great.  It's something that I've always loved to do.  Hopefully I can play here for like 25 more years.Q. Having grown up on hard courts and now you're so skilled on clay, any reason why this is such?SLOANE STEPHENS: I wouldn't say I grew up on hard court though, because playing in Florida we play on green clay.  So obviously not red clay, but we play on clay a lot.  Since it rains every single day in Florida we played pretty much every afternoon on clay. It was just a good combination of playing a lot on both.Q. Just back to the clay again.  Do you feel like the court conditions here are appreciably better than any other red clay tournament in the world?SLOANE STEPHENS: Is this a trick question?Q. No.SLOANE STEPHENS: Okay.  Yeah, I would say so.  I mean, I think so.Q. Can you expound on that at all?SLOANE STEPHENS: Like the lines are perfect.  The courts are always perfect.  Never get too dry.  Never need water.  I mean, they just maintain them really well.Q. In Rome there were some issues with the court there.  I don't know if you saw that.SLOANE STEPHENS: Yeah, I mean, I don't know.  Bottom line is this is the best red clay court to play on in the world.Q. I don't know what I missed.  Can you just talk about sort of where your game is and how you feel?  This is a place you've had some good success.SLOANE STEPHENS: You missed absolutely nothing because everyone was scared to grab the mic before you got here.  That question was pretty much asked, and I said nothing.  Game is feeling good.  Happy to be here.  Happy to be in the third round.Q. How about a slice of life in Paris?SLOANE STEPHENS: What is that?Q. I don't know.  What's going on with you in Paris?  You talked about what you've been doing here in years past.  New places?  New things?  New experiences?SLOANE STEPHENS: I had Korean barbeque last night and it was delicious, and I have French toast for breakfast ever morning. My TV in my hotel room is a motion censor thing.  It's really cool.  Yeah, that's about it.Q. Paul would struggle with that.SLOANE STEPHENS: Yeah, Paul wouldn't be watching TV.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT