MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAU
April 1, 2015
Sloane Stephens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. HALEP/S. Stephens
  6‑1, 7‑5

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Looked like sort of two different matches.   Switch went on for you at some point in the match or something changed? 
SLOANE STEPHENS:   I got off to a slow start.   She was playing well.   Obviously playing the No. 3 player in the world is always going to be tough, so I was just happy that at the middle of the second set I was able to come back and compete and just fight really hard and just make her play a lot of balls at the end.

Q.   What do you think was the difference there?   You did fight back.   What gave her the edge?
SLOANE STEPHENS:   She just played really hard the whole way.   Unfortunately, I didn't come up with some shots that I wanted to, but it was what it was.

Q.   (Regarding on‑court coaching.)
SLOANE STEPHENS:   Same message, and it's worked pretty well.   We're going to keep with that and see how it goes. 

Q.   Did you feel like you need to show more energy?
SLOANE STEPHENS:   I mean, showing more energy and more fight you can never go wrong.   Maybe I looked on the outside a little flat, but I was doing my best and trying to show as much positive energy as I could.

Q.   Simona said you changed strategy at some point. 
SLOANE STEPHENS:   The strategy of hitting the ball in the court?   Yes, would've been the strategic change that I made.

Q.   What do you think was going wrong in the first set?   Obviously it's a big match.   What do you think was the difference in the first set?
SLOANE STEPHENS:   Too many errors on my part. 

Q.   (Regarding coming to the net.)
SLOANE STEPHENS:   Yeah, no, definitely I love coming to the net.   I love doubles.   It's definitely something you have to work on and focus on.   It is a big part of my game, because a lot of the times I am finishing points at the net.   That's when I'm playing my best.
Definitely something I've focused on.

Q.   What do you leave here taking from this tournament here. 
SLOANE STEPHENS:   Just a really ‑‑ the last three weeks, Indian Wells and here, just a lot of good competing and a lot of fight and just having fun on the court and enjoying myself.   Just loving being out there. 

Q.   Sometimes do you feel that because of your power you rely so much on your shot and you stay like a little bit waiting for the next shot rather than keep moving? 
SLOANE STEPHENS:   I mean, sometimes I don't take as many opportunities as I should and I am a little passive, but it's definitely something I'm working on. 

Q.   (Regarding backhand volley at the net.) 
SLOANE STEPHENS:   Yeah, I mean, that point, but there were so many other points in the match that could have gone differently. 
I mean, obviously I don't want to miss that backhand volley again, but I'm going to work as hard as I can to make sure the next time I'm on the court I'm not going to miss it.

Q.   Talk about Simona. 
SLOANE STEPHENS:   She's a great player.   She's extremely consistent.   Makes you play a lot of balls and she's a great competitor. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT