MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAU
March 30, 2015
Sloane Stephens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. STEPHENS/B. Bencic
  6‑4, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   First quarterfinal here.   First set was like a baseline war.   Talk about just the overall quality of that, the baseline battle you two had tonight. 
SLOANE STEPHENS:   Yeah, I thought both of us played really well off the ground, obviously.   She's a really great player, so it was going to be tough for me.   I thought overall we both played a really great match.

Q.   Talk about the second set.   Take me through it a little bit.   The tiebreaker, what happened in the tiebreaker?
SLOANE STEPHENS:   Yeah, a little bumpy back and forth, but I was able to find my way back a little.   A few errors, but I was pleased with getting to the tiebreaker and pushing her, you know, in the second set.
So the tiebreaker was intense, but I was happy to get through it.

Q.   Can you kind of describe your feelings about getting to the quarterfinal?
SLOANE STEPHENS:   Don't tell me who I play. 

Q.   We don't know yet. 
SLOANE STEPHENS:   Don't tell me.

Q.   I won't.   But can you just kind of grab your feelings of getting there and what it means to you to make the quarterfinals of a tournament near your home?
SLOANE STEPHENS:   Yeah, it's awesome.   Obviously I have a lot of friends and family here in South Florida, so it's really nice for me.   Growing up here, I mean, I'm used to playing here.   I played Orange Bowl here and played this tournament a lot.   You know, it's home, so it's really nice for me.

Q.   We talked to Venus earlier.   Could you imaging 35, almost 35 years old and still doing what she does?   You know, she started very young and here she is still at 35.   Can you sort of talk to what it must take to be where she is at her age?
SLOANE STEPHENS:   She is a super human.   She's unbelievable.   If I'm 35 playing tennis, I'm going to be, like‑‑ I don't know how I'm going to function.   But she actually is an unbelievable athlete.   Super human.   I don't know how she does it.

Q.   Talk about the comfort level.   Nick is here; you train at Plantation.   I imagine you're sleeping in your apartment in Fort Lauderdale.   Does it lead up to the perfect storm for you, possibly?
SLOANE STEPHENS:   Yeah.   Like I said, South Florida is home.   Nice to be back here.   A lot of friends and family.   I have played her a bunch, so it's a good environment for me, a good place.   I'm just going to do my best and keep playing.

Q.   Talk about your sense of accomplishment now.   I know it's just the quarterfinals, but you had some disappointing results last year.   Obviously the last three weeks have been wonderful.   Sense of accomplishment.   Nice little move this last month. 
SLOANE STEPHENS:   Yeah, definitely not focused on anything that happened in the past.   Going forward and just getting out there and competing, trying to do my best every match.

Q.   Can you win this?
SLOANE STEPHENS:   I mean, only God knows, but I'm going to do my best every match.

Q.   You're one of three new first timers in the quarterfinals here.   Just kind of what are your thoughts about the new, fresh faces advancing in this tournament now?
SLOANE STEPHENS:   I don't know.   Just ‑‑it's great to be in the quarterfinals.   I'm sure everyone else that's in the quarterfinals is happy to be there, as well. 

Q.   First of all, it's amazing how I'm sitting here and there are just ‑‑I was talking to my teacher and she's comparing you to Serena and Venus.   To just to be amongst those names, how do you deal with the pressure coming out and being on the big stage every day or weekend and just competing to your best ability?
SLOANE STEPHENS:   I mean, every match is different, but every match you've just got to go out there and do your best.   I mean, every week we're in a different city and different place.   Conditions are different.   Everything is different. 
But you just got to really focus on yourself and make sure when you're on the court you're ready and prepared and getting out there and compete and fight.

Q.   What kind of goal is that first title?   You must be starving for it.   22 now.   You must be starving for it.   How big would that be, getting that first one?
SLOANE STEPHENS:   It will be big.   At this rate maybe I will win a title when I'm 30 or when I'm 35.   I don't know.   Who knows? 

Q.   You're okay with that?
SLOANE STEPHENS:   I'm okay with that.   As long as I'm out there competing every day and enjoying myself, doesn't matter what comes next. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT