BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 17, 2015
Sloane Stephens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. WILLIAMS/S. Stephens
  6‑7, 6‑2, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   You get the first set; tough set.   Talk about your play and kind of how you felt the match went. 
SLOANE STEPHENS:   Yeah, I thought I played a really solid first set.   Obviously I was playing No. 1 player in the world so it was going to be a little tough.   She played well in the second and third set. 
You know, you win some, you lose some.   It was a good effort by me.

Q.   What do you think she did better in the second and third set that as different than what she was doing in the first set?
SLOANE STEPHENS:   She played her game; she stepped up her game. 

Q.   Serving?   Better off the ground?   What you were seeing?
SLOANE STEPHENS:   I mean, she just did everything a little bit better.   I mean, she executed I thought pretty well in the second and third.

Q.   Overall, how happy are you with this week?   Seems like a pretty good step in the right direction. 
SLOANE STEPHENS:   Yeah, definitely a good step in the right direction; looking forward to next week.
So, you know, just going to keep building on it.

Q.   Was there a turning point in the third set where you felt the match kind of changed?
SLOANE STEPHENS:   No.   I think all around she played solid.   It was a good second and third set by her.

Q.   Does she bring out your best?   Seems like you were playing better than you have in the rest of the tournament. 
SLOANE STEPHENS:   I think I played really well my last three matches, and then today I felt I played really well.   You know, I think it was just continuous flowing, and every day it's getting better. 
So I'm happy with that.

Q.   Did you feel you let down in the start of the second or third sets?
SLOANE STEPHENS:   I had some chances and opportunities that I didn't really capitalize on which I should have.   Like I said, I was playing No. 1 player in the world.   When you don't take your chances, it could be a little tough.

Q.   What did you say to one another at the end of the match? 
SLOANE STEPHENS:   Good match.   Good luck.   The normal handshake.   (Smiling.)   That was it.

Q.   She's just a colleague, but does it feel different when you play against Serena than other players?
SLOANE STEPHENS:   No, it's all the same.   Every match is a match.   You go out and compete. 

Q.   When did Under Armour start making straw hats?
SLOANE STEPHENS:   Well, first of all, this is my mother's hat that Under Armour makes for her.   They match all of my match outfits.   You should look for the Sybille collection of straw hats from Under Armour.

Q.   When you have to go from the desert to really humid conditions in Miami, how does it affect your game?   A lot of the guys were saying yesterday that they felt yesterday that the ball, everything was moving really quickly out here. 
SLOANE STEPHENS:   Yeah, definitely.   Everyone, the adjustment for everyone is the same.   Everyone has to adjust to the heat; everyone has to adjust to the balls. 
So, you know, I would say it's a slight adjustment, but everyone has to do it.

Q.   What are you most happy with in your game from this tournament?
SLOANE STEPHENS:   I'd say competing.   Competing and digging out and just fighting every point and just really enjoying being out on the court.

Q.   Had you stopped enjoying it?
SLOANE STEPHENS:   No.   I just really love playing tennis.   I enjoy being out on the court, and I want to be sure when I'm out there I'm competing and having the most fun possible.

Q.   How do you tap into that joy?   What do you do?
SLOANE STEPHENS:   I don't know.   I just run down every ball and make a lot of plays on the ball and make the other person play.
For me, just being out there and competing, I think that's the most fun.

Q.   How enjoyable was it to win that tiebreaker?   You had to really fight to win that. 
SLOANE STEPHENS:   It was good.   I mean, I had to dig and fight for a lot of balls, but I thought, you know, I did what I had to do to win the tiebreaker.

Q.   When do you think you're going to win your first Grand Slam?   We know you are, but when?
SLOANE STEPHENS:   I like that.   It's not if, it's when, right?   I don't know.   I mean, only the man upstairs knows, so we have to wait and see.   I hope you're at the press conference when I do win one.   (Smiling.)







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT