WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 12, 2014
Sloane Stephens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. STEPHENS/A. Petkovic
  6‑3, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   How did it feel out there?   Seemed like the first few games were kind of taking a long time.   
SLOANE STEPHENS:   Yeah, it was tough because it was really windy.   It was tough for both of us.  
I thought we played a pretty solid match.   I was happy that I was able to get the win.  
   
 Q.   How much confidence do you take from that win?  
SLOANE STEPHENS:   I mean, it was a great first‑round win to get, you know.   Playing obviously in the States it's a little tough playing somewhere that you love to play so much.   
I was definitely really happy to get that win.  
   
 Q.   Tough first round encounter.   
SLOANE STEPHENS:   Yeah, definitely.   So obviously playing someone tough where you have had really tough matches in the past, it's obviously always really good to get that win in the first round of a big tournament.  
   
 Q.   Are you finding conditions quicker or slower than the other hard courts you've played this summer?  
SLOANE STEPHENS:   No.   Actually, I like the speed that's here.   I have always played pretty well here.   I know nothing about courts, to be honest, but I know that it plays well for my game.   
   
 Q.   How are the first couple of weeks with Thomas?   
SLOANE STEPHENS:   Good.   It's been great.   He's obviously really tough, so that's good.   I like him, so it's good first steps.  
   
 Q.   When you switch coaches and everything, is there like a getting to know each other in terms of how you do things and process things and everything, that that period is that tough or something you just kind of...   
SLOANE STEPHENS:   I'd say it's probably an awkward phase, but you just try to smooth it over and just get to the tournaments as quick as possible and keep playing and just continue your regular routine, basically.  
   
 Q.   He has a great reputation or something?   What made you key in on him?  
SLOANE STEPHENS:   Just a great coach and I needed a change.   He's done well in the past and obviously knows women's tennis great.  
So, I mean, it's a no‑brainer on that one.  
   
 Q.   What about Barbora in the next round?  
SLOANE STEPHENS:   I played Barbora when I was like 15 I think is the last time we played, so it will definitely be interesting.   Looking forward to it.   
   
 Q.   Where is your confidence right now?  
SLOANE STEPHENS:   Are you asking on 1 to 10?   How does that work?   
   
 Q.   Yeah.   
SLOANE STEPHENS:   I don't know.   I could say 10 or 11.   Doesn't matter.  
   
 Q.   How are you approaching this year in the States compared to last year, the year before?   You sort of had these growing experiences year after year.   What are you taking in 2014 that you hadn't before?  
SLOANE STEPHENS:   Just learning new things every day.   Taking it day by day.   Just trying and enjoy myself, trying to have fun out there.   Really just mostly enjoy myself out there.  
   
 Q.   Some of the other players have been talking about background noise, whether it's consistent or not consistent.   How do you feel about that in terms of like here you can hear noise from the other stadiums.   Does it make a difference to you?  
SLOANE STEPHENS:   No, not really.   I have never really thought about it, to be honest.   Sorry.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT