ROLAND GARROS
May 31, 2014
Sloane Stephens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. STEPHENS/E. Makarova
      6‑3, 6‑4

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please. 

Q.   Six straight times second week of a slam.   Most of anybody on the women's tour, active streak.   Not bad.   You must be pretty happy to keep it going?
    SLOANE STEPHENS:   Yeah, it's pretty cool, I think.   I think it's really cool. 

Q.   Why do you think this keeps happening for you?   It's a good thing, obviously. 
    SLOANE STEPHENS:   Yeah, it's a great thing.   If I knew, I would capitalize on it.   I would do it every week.   I would, you know, make the most of it. 
    But I guess it's all just a learning experience.   Rather this than anything else, so it's okay for now.

Q.   Throw us a bone.   There is a little bit of disparity between your play in the slams and some of the regular tour.   So anything, something.   What's going on (laughter)? 
    SLOANE STEPHENS:   (Smiling.)   I don't know.   Like I said, if I had the answer, I would definitely let you guys in on something. 

Q.   Do you feel like a different person when you get to these big tournaments?
    SLOANE STEPHENS:   No.   Not really (smiling). 

Q.   Do you buy the notion there can be like they are clay court specialists and indoor specialists.   Could you be a slam specialist?
    SLOANE STEPHENS:   I just peak at four tournaments a year.   Every other tournament I guess, just get me ready for these (smiling).

Q.   How about this?   They say Stefan Edberg, he had a fire in his belly, he had real desire, passion.   So do you have that more at Grand Slams than the other tournaments?
    SLOANE STEPHENS:   Like I said, same question, I do not know, you guys.   I do not know (smiling). 

Q.   You have a lot of experience playing late in Grand Slams.   Simona, you are playing next, does not.   How do you think that experience is going to help you in the next match?
    SLOANE STEPHENS:   Getting deep into a Grand Slam obviously the competition is obviously going to get tougher.   Whoever you're playing against is going to be a tough match and you have to go out and compete.
    For her I think she's played really, really well like in the smaller tournaments like I haven't done, and she has a lot of experience with that.   I have a lot of experience here. 
    I think we're just going to go out there and compete and just see what happens.   I know she's going to give her best, and so am I.   That's all we can ask for.

Q.   Obviously for the men slams are different, best of five.   So women, not really.   But what feels different about a slam match?   I'm trying here. 
    SLOANE STEPHENS:   Nothing.   I don't know.   I don't know.   I'm not sure. 
    Honestly, if I had the answer and I knew, I would tell you guys.   I'd be like, Oh, yeah, but I can't even think of anything.   Like I don't know. 

Q.   What do you remember about your last meeting with her in Australia?   How do you think her game has changed since then?
    SLOANE STEPHENS:   That was so long ‑‑I mean, obviously I have grown a lot as a player, and so has she.   I'm not going to really look back that far.   I'm just going to go out and compete and play my game and obviously focus on myself.   She's probably going to do the same.

Q.   Do you feel like some of the things you have been working on with Paul are starting to click in at this tournament, or can you talk about, you know, what you have been working on?   Do you feel like those things are starting to be incorporated in your game more easily?
    SLOANE STEPHENS:   Yeah, I mean, definitely what I work on with Paul is, it's developing, it's a learning process, but it's been good.   I just ‑‑we're just one step at a time. 

Q.   You're one of the players, maybe the highest ranked player that hasn't won a title.   Would it be nice to start‑‑
    SLOANE STEPHENS:   Tell me about it. 

Q.   Would it be nice to start here?
    SLOANE STEPHENS:   It would be nice to start here.   Maybe I will win my first title in five years and you guys would be, Why did it take her so long?   Then I will have to think of something else to say.   I don't know.

Q.   Of course back to our favorite topic of the day, what if the fabulous, marvelous Grand Slam Sloane Stephens would play a match against the ordinary, not so great, regular circuit Sloane Stephens?   What would the score be?
    SLOANE STEPHENS:   (Wrinkling eyebrows.) 2 and 2, I mean, duh. 

Q.   To that point, do you think your first title will come at a slam?
    SLOANE STEPHENS:   I don't know.   But then you guys would be scratching your head, wouldn't you?   You'd be like, Hmmm, there must be something she's not telling us.   No, I don't know. 

Q.   Totally different silly question. 
    SLOANE STEPHENS:   Okay.

Q.   How many of those head bands do you have?   How many colors?     Is it like a mood ring?
    SLOANE STEPHENS:   Honestly?   The amount of head bands I have, I'd probably say I have about ‑‑I'd say I have about 250 head bands.   Yeah. 

Q.   Greatly color coordinated, but do you feel it in the morning?
    SLOANE STEPHENS:   Do I feel it in the morning? 

Q.   About what to wear and ‑‑
    SLOANE STEPHENS:   I have so many.   I can wear a blue outfit and have blue; I can wear purple and have pink and the logo might be like matching my outfit.   I don't know.   It just depends.   It just depends.   But I have like a lot a lot. 

Q.   Simona described you as much younger than she is.   Do you feel much younger?
    SLOANE STEPHENS:   I'm two years younger. 

Q.   One year. 
    SLOANE STEPHENS:   One year, okay. 

Q.   Do you look at her as being much older?
    SLOANE STEPHENS:   No.   We're like the same age (smiling).   We played juniors at the same time.   No.   Not really. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT