FEDCUP WORLD GROUP PLAY-OFFS: FRANCE v U.S.A.
April 19, 2014
Sloane Stephens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







C. GARCIA/S. Stephens
  6‑3, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Sloane Stephens.   Speak into the microphone as this is being transcribed.
First question. 

Q.   Sloane, seemed like you just couldn't get going.   You started the match okay; after that just seemed like you were struggling a little bit today.   Would you talk overall about your performance?
SLOANE STEPHENS:   I thought I played pretty decent.   Obviously Caroline played a really great match and is playing with a lot of confidence, playing well. 
Sometimes you just play players that just play really, really well.   I didn't play great today, so you can do that math of not playing great and playing against someone who is playing well and with some confidence is not always easy.
I did my best and unfortunately didn't get the win.   I did my best. 

Q.   I mean, they seemed to have a bigger cheering section in the overall crows than you did at times.   You can kind of ignore that. 
SLOANE STEPHENS:   Yeah, definitely that's tough.   But I'm a big cheerer, so I'm going to go out there and do the best I can even if I'm the only one on the bench or the only one in the crowd cheering.
It's definitely tough, but you get past it and work through it.

Q.   What do you think she did well today in her match?
SLOANE STEPHENS:   Caroline? 

Q.   Yeah. 
SLOANE STEPHENS:   I thought she played really solid.   Wasn't missing at all.   She served really well.   She was just that much better than me today.   She got a lot of balls back.   She made me play.   She played some really great points. 
I can't be too disappointed with myself when you play someone that's playing really well.   I mean, you kind of just got to accept that and move forward and fight hard for the next day.

Q.   What would you do different tomorrow?   Is there anything that you're going to prepare for tomorrow's?
SLOANE STEPHENS:   No.   Tomorrow is different day, different opponent.   The girl who I play, she plays different than Caroline Garcia, so it's going to be a totally different matchup. 
So you just got to go out there and do your best.   I always say I'm going to do the best I can.
It's obviously tough when you're playing against people who are playing with a lot of confidence ‑ both coming off titles last week. 
So all's you can do is fight and do the best you can.   It's always tough.   I mean, you're playing Fed Cup.   You're playing for your country.   Just got to do the best you can. 

Q.   There was a point in the second game, second set, where you had the court wide open in front of you and you hit it long and let out a little shriek; I think you put your hands over your face.   Can you talk about that moment?   She aced to go up 2‑0. 
SLOANE STEPHENS:   She had a sitter in the middle of the court and I just guessed right way and she hit it to me and I missed it.   Not much you can do about that.   I mean, I just guessed and happened to be where she hit the ball.   Shockingly I was even in the position to get ball back.
Then I missed it.   So it was kind of like lucky that I got there, and then unfortunate that I didn't get the ball back in the court because I was so lucky.
That's difficult.   But nothing‑‑ I mean, I got it back to 2‑All, so I didn't think that had too much affect on it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT