SONY OPEN TENNIS
March 23, 2014
Sloane Stephens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







C. WOZNIACKI/S. Stephens
  6‑1, 6‑0

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Obviously tonight was a tough night.   Anything other than just things weren't firing for you tennis‑wise?   Anything psychological?
SLOANE STEPHENS:   No, just really disappointing night.   Just got my butt kicked, and that's about it really.

Q.   Throughout that whole match were you thinking of, Hey, this next point is where I'm going to be able to find the rhythm?
SLOANE STEPHENS:   Yeah.   I tried a lot of things.   Wasn't my night.   It was disappointing.   Just didn't click for me.

Q.   Always nice to have the crowd on your side, but does it put a little extra pressure on you to play in front of a home crowd?
SLOANE STEPHENS:   No, not really.   It's always good to have support.   Everywhere you go there's always pretty decent support. 
I think if anything it, you know, makes you play better or anything like that.

Q.   Have you felt this coming?   Problems in practice or anything?   I know you said during warmups you kind of get settled down or something.   That just not happen today?
SLOANE STEPHENS:   Yeah, no, I have been playing good, practicing good.   Everything has been good.   Just kind of a disappointing night for me.   It's just something‑‑ it just happened.   I couldn't fight my way out of it. 
Not really anything I'm going to cry too much over.   I'm just going to get back to work and get ready for Charleston next week.

Q.   What do you try to adjust or change something?
SLOANE STEPHENS:   Just try and make some balls in the court.   That normally helps.   Just, like I said, it was really disappointing.   Just wasn't getting ball in the court.   She played solid. 
There's really nothing I could just ‑‑just really disappointed.

Q.   Are there days that are so bad that they are almost easier to get over than, you know, something kind of in the middle range?
SLOANE STEPHENS:   Yeah, definitely.   It wasn't like it was a choice or I had any chances.   It was just straight‑up bad.   Not really.   Can't really take too much away from it.

Q.   Do you feel Caroline was a bad matchup for you?
SLOANE STEPHENS:   No, I think it was just a bad night.

Q.   Did you feel that it was going to be a bad night from the very start?   Was there a point early in the match where you thought it wasn't happening?
SLOANE STEPHENS:   No.   Just disappointing day and all.   Nothing that triggered it or anything.   Just really disappointing match.

Q.   Do you go back out tomorrow and/or do you take a day?
SLOANE STEPHENS:   No, I will take a day, just do some, you know, fun stuff and, you know, get back ‑‑I'll get everything back in order and start practicing again soon.

Q.   Retail therapy?
SLOANE STEPHENS:   Um, yeah.   I never went shopping for my birthday, so maybe.

Q.   There were some harsh words on Tennis Channel saying they were not sure if you were trying to act cool or if you didn't care tonight during the match.   What would you say in response to that?
SLOANE STEPHENS:   No comment. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT