BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 11, 2014
Sloane Stephens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. STEPHENS/A. Kleybanova
  6‑3, 7‑5 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   First off, just thoughts on the match.   Another tough one?   Kleybanova played you tight and was able to play through.   
SLOANE STEPHENS:   She played a good match.   We both played pretty good.   It was my first time playing on Stadium 2.   That was an interesting thing for me.   It was pretty loud in there, but the court was good.   
I played solid; she played solid.   I was happy to get the win in the end.  
   
 Q.   You're the first American woman to make the quarterfinals since 2008.   
SLOANE STEPHENS:   I know.   I saw that.   Yeah, that's cool.   I'm glad to be doing well here.   Obviously I haven't made it past the second round here ever.   It's good to be in the quarterfinals.  
   
 Q.   What did you like or didn't like about Stadium 2?  
SLOANE STEPHENS:   It feels just like Stadium 1 just a little bit smaller and has a restaurant in it.  
   
 Q.   Can you hear?  
SLOANE STEPHENS:   You can't hear the people in the restaurant, but you can hear the people walking around in like I guess the‑‑ I don't know.   I have never seen how you get to the outside part.   I don't know if there are concessions or anything in there.  
   
 Q.   So there is ambient noise?  
SLOANE STEPHENS:   Yeah.   Other than that, it was normal.  
   
 Q.   Pennetta next round.   I think she leads the head to head 2‑1.  
SLOANE STEPHENS:   Yeah, should be good.   She just came back from an injury.   She's been playing well since she's been back.   I think it will be a good match.   Obviously it's a big tournament; always going to be tough.   
I'm just going to go out and do my best and hopefully get the win.  
   
 Q.   As you progress through a tournament and get deeper does the pressure increase?   Do you actually feel like, you know, it's a little bit more tense as each match goes on?   
SLOANE STEPHENS:   No.   I think at the beginning of the tournament is when you have like the most nerves.   Then once you get going, you're like, The person I'm playing has done well, you're both playing well, so it's good we are this deep in the tournament.   
But I think at the beginning of the tournament, first round, you're like, Oh, my God.   Please don't lose first round.   You're worried about a lot.   I think once you get deep in the tournament you feel a lot better.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT