ROLAND GARROS
May 31, 2019
Sloane Stephens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. STEPHENS/P. Hercog
6-3, 5-7, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Your popularity is doubling by the minute.  Thoughts on your win today, which was tough as it was in Madrid.  Tougher today maybe?
SLOANE STEPHENS: Yeah, definitely.  Tough day today.  It was different, because it was really hot out today.  The weather changed a bit.
But overall a little bumpy but happy to be through.  Obviously playing a good player, third round of a slam, she obviously was going for it.  Yeah, just happy to be through.
Q. Can you take us through those match points in the second set and what happened there?
SLOANE STEPHENS: Honestly, I don't even remember what happened.  It seems like so long ago.  But I know that I didn't win them.  That was the main point of that.  Yeah, after the second set I just tried to regroup.  I got off to a good start and just tried to hang with it.
Yeah, when you have match points like that, you have to put it out of your mind, otherwise it just stays with you, lingers, brings you down.  It's no fun.
Q. How complicated was it today with the heat and the shadows on the court?  Must have been a difficult match in those terms.
SLOANE STEPHENS: Yeah, I mean, my first match I was playing it was, like, raining a little bit.  It was weird and dark and shady.  All types of stuff.  Then my second match was in the sun, it was great, weather was great.  Then today was super hot.  Then the shadows.
I've just gotten a little bit of everything, so just preparing me for the next match.
Q. Next match is Muguruza.  Thoughts on that?  That's obviously, you're both Grand Slams champions.  What will that be like?
SLOANE STEPHENS: I think it will be a good match.  Obviously she's played well here; she won.  I think it will be a good match.  I think she's playing well, I'm playing well.  I think it's a good matchup.
Yeah, you're playing for a spot in the quarters of a slam.  Just gotta leave everything out there and see what happens.
Q. You're the highest seed left on the bottom half after today's results.  Is that exciting, irrelevant?
SLOANE STEPHENS: What?
Q. You are the highest-ranked player left on the bottom half now.  Is that exciting?  Is that irrelevant?
SLOANE STEPHENS: It's literally irrelevant.  Draws are meant to fall apart and I honestly don't even -- I don't even understand the seeding.  It doesn't matter.
Q. You don't understand the seedings?
SLOANE STEPHENS: No, I thought that when you played -- it's a long story, but anyways, yeah.
Q. We have time.
SLOANE STEPHENS: No, we don't.  I actually don't.  I have a dinner reservation.  (Laughter.)
The next time, we can talk about it.
Q. Some of the players were saying it was slippery on that court today.  Did you find that maybe with the drying out and...
SLOANE STEPHENS: I think it was a little bit drier because it was hotter and I think that's, like, the first day that it's been really, really hot.  Yeah, I think it was a little bit slipperier and drier.  Do they water it in between the second and third?  I don't know.  I don't know.
Yeah, it was a little bit slippery but I think that's just the weather, how hot it was outside today.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT