CHINA OPEN
September 28, 2013
Sloane Stephens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. STEPHENS/A. Wozniak
  6‑4, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Talk about what happened out there today?  
SLOANE STEPHENS:   I think she played really well today.   When you're playing and someone is down, it's really easy for them to play and go for all their shots.   
I think when she was down, she played some of her best tennis.   I thought it was a great match overall, but when I was up I needed to be a little bit more aggressive.   
   
 Q.   First time playing in China.   How do you feel about the stadium, the atmosphere, the culture?  
SLOANE STEPHENS:   I like it.   My first time in Asia in general.   China's been good to me the last three days I've been here.   A good start for me.   Everything has been really nice, the hotel, the site.   
I'm excited.   
   
 Q.   You always had great performances in Grand Slams.   On the WTA maybe not as good as Grand Slams.   Is there any difference the way you play in the different tournaments?  
SLOANE STEPHENS:   No.   I just think I had really great results in the slams.   I'd rather have great results in the slams than not.   
I think it's a good thing, but something I'm definitely working on, to do better in the lower‑level events.   
   
 Q.   It's going to be a crucial time for the players to qualify for the year‑end championships.   You still have a chance.   What do you think of your chances?   
SLOANE STEPHENS:   Obviously I want to do well in any tournament I play.   But definitely it's a little bit stressful to try to make the year‑end championships.   
Definitely at the beginning of this year I didn't think I'd be in the end of the year in a position to go even as an alternate or anything like that.   
For me, I'm just going to keep playing hard and trying my best.   It's difficult thinking about trying to make the year‑end tournaments or winning a tournament to play Sofia.   
I'll try to play my best, play hard, just see what happens.   
   
 Q.   Also a potential matchup against Serena.   Does it bother you when people always looking forward to see you play Serena?  
SLOANE STEPHENS:   I mean, it's just another match.   You got to go out and compete.   Obviously I think a lot of people look forward to that match, us playing.   
Definitely tough.   But it's always good to get out on the court and compete.   
   
 Q.   Talk a little bit more about today's match.   Did you feel like you were in control of the match most of the time?  
SLOANE STEPHENS:   Yeah, I thought I was playing pretty well.   Like I said, she played really well when she was down.   
I felt good.   I just needed to be a little bit more aggressive when I was ahead.   So overall I thought I felt pretty good.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT