NEW HAVEN OPEN AT YALE
August 22, 2013
Sloane Stephens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. WOZNIACKI/S. Stephens
  7‑6, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You played so well in the first set.   When you broke her to go up 5‑4, what happened from that point?  
SLOANE STEPHENS:   I thought I played pretty well.   We both were playing well.   Uhm, just unfortunate that I lost the tiebreaker.   But I thought we both played really well.   
Did I serve for the set at 5‑4?   
   
 Q.   She broke you back.   
SLOANE STEPHENS:   I served for the set, yeah?   
   
 Q.   Yes.   
SLOANE STEPHENS:   Just unfortunate that it went that way.   But I thought I played really well.   I thought she played well.   So it was a good match.   
   
 Q.   In the second, it looked like you were down on yourself a little bit.   Was that about the first set?  
SLOANE STEPHENS:   No, she definitely raised her level in the second set.   She played more aggressive.   All in all, like I said, I thought I played pretty well.   She played well.   It was a good match.   
   
 Q.   Was that maybe something that surprised you in the second set, that she got to be a little more aggressive instead of waiting for you to make the mistake?  
SLOANE STEPHENS:   No.   You always have to expect your opponent to play their best.   Playing Carol, she's always going to play you tough.   She's always a great competitor.   
Just a tough situation.   Unfortunate I didn't pull it together in the second.   Like I said, I thought I played a good match.   
   
 Q.   What did you get out of this tournament going into the US Open?  
SLOANE STEPHENS:   Just a lot of matches, a lot of confidence.   I've played a lot of matches over the last couple weeks.   I played pretty solid.   I'm excited going into the Open.   I'm looking forward to playing there.   Always great to be back in New York at a home slam.   
I am really excited and I'm glad I got a little bit of confidence going in with all these matches I played here.   
   
 Q.   Did you notice her perfect smile again in the handshake?  
SLOANE STEPHENS:   I didn't pay attention, but...   She probably did, I don't know.   I think she smiles like right at the time that people are taking the picture.   I don't know.   I know people have noticed that before.   On the WTA website, she always has a perfect smile when the picture is of her.   I don't know.   I don't know.   
   
 Q.   What is it that makes her so tough?  
SLOANE STEPHENS:   She gets a lot of balls back.   She's a really great competitor.   She plays her strengths really, really well, and she knows what he's doing.   She's a smart player.   She's been No.1 in the world.   She definitely knows what it takes to be up there.   
Obviously she's worked really hard on her game, knowing what she needs to do best.   That's what it takes to be good.   She's a consistent top‑10 player.   So I think she has a pretty solid game.  
   
 Q.   She's been a fan favorite here, only losing one match in six years.   The fans seemed kind of divided out there tonight.   Did you get that impression and were you trying to win them over?   
SLOANE STEPHENS:   No, not really focusing on winning the fans over while I'm playing the match.   I don't know.   
But, I mean, it's awesome to have people cheer for you obviously.   An American playing in the States, it's always going to be 50/50.   Knowing that Carol has won here so many years in a row, obviously they love her.   
Like I said, I thought it was pretty even out there, so it was good.   
   
 Q.   Earlier in the week you didn't have David here with you physically.   Is that a nice challenge for you, to have your hitting partner and be on your own in a sense?   
SLOANE STEPHENS:   Yeah, it's an interesting situation.   But I think we worked through it pretty well.   It's great to have him here.   It's great when he's not here, too.   
I think either way it works out pretty good.   But it's good that he's here.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT