SONY OPEN TENNIS
March 25, 2013
Sloane Stephens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. RADWANSKA/S. Stephens
  4‑6, 6‑2, 6‑0 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You started well and then she kind of got back into it.   Can you talk about the match?  
SLOANE STEPHENS:   Yeah, I played good at the beginning.   Came out playing well.   She raised her level and she played some pretty good tennis.   
In the end she just played a little bit better.  
   
 Q.   Are you able to take a positive from a match like this where you really were hanging tough against her and then maybe the match slipped away from you a little bit?   Are you able to take the positives from that?  
SLOANE STEPHENS:   Yeah, definitely.   You can always take something from it and get better.   That's always a good thing.  
   
 Q.   You had the ace to go up 40‑15 with a chance to even that second set at 3‑All.   Did you feel that was a big momentum shifter when she was able to come back and break you?  
SLOANE STEPHENS:   Yeah.   I mean, I definitely felt I should have held serve at 3‑2.   It didn't happen, and it is what it is.   
   
 Q.   Has it been harder for you in professional tennis since beating Serena at the Australian Open?   You're 19.   You have just done the greatest thing you can possibly do.   Has the next step been harder than you thought it was going to be?  
SLOANE STEPHENS:   No.   I mean...  
   
 Q.   What's happening differently since Australia in these matches?   You've lost five of seven.   What's going on differently than what was happening at the Australian that was working so well?  
SLOANE STEPHENS:   I mean, just a rough time.   I don't know.   There's not ‑‑there's no specific thing that I'd say has happened or is not happening, but I don't think it really matters.   
I'm 16 in the world.   I can lose in the first round the next two months and I probably would still be top 30.   I'm not really too concerned about winning or losing or any of that, I don't think.   
My life has changed, yeah, but I wouldn't say I'm in a panic or anything.   
   
 Q.   But you want to win, obviously.   
SLOANE STEPHENS:   Obviously.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT