U.S. OPEN
August 30, 2012
Sloane Stephens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. STEPHENS/T. Malex
  5‑7, 6‑4, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Obviously an extremely long day for you but great result.   Take us through your day a little bit. 
SLOANE STEPHENS:   Woke up, I went and had breakfast.   My brother came in this morning.   He was basically just telling me all morning how tired he was.   It was kind of like a drag. 
Then got here, practiced a little bit.   Waited.   Tsonga, I don't know what was going on in his match.   He was like up and down.   Finally I went on court, played.   I started off a little slow.   I couldn't really find my rhythm. 
The girl that I played, she didn't play like most of the girls.   She like sliced a lot.   She came in, played a different style.   I couldn't really find my rhythm.   I was just trying to make a lot of balls, stay solid. 
Once I kind of got my rhythm end of the second into the third I started playing better.

Q.   How much did you worry?   Did you think it was a solvable problem from the start?
SLOANE STEPHENS:   No, that's never the thought process.   I was just thinking like, okay, I have to make a lot of balls, get a lot of balls back.   It was a little tough.   It was windy.   She doesn't play a straight‑up game.   It just was a difficult little process. 
I think once I kind of just caught my rhythm, made a few good shots, I think that helped a lot. 

Q.   Was it a chicken‑and‑the‑egg thing, you had to make the shots first before you got comfortable?
SLOANE STEPHENS:   I don't know.   I just didn't have a rhythm really.   She played so differently that I just couldn't find my own rhythm.   Once I started making a lot of balls, getting a lot of balls back, it became easier. 
I got a little bit aggressive towards the end.   I think that helped a lot.   I don't know about the chicken or the egg. 

Q.   Do you think you'll be ready for the next round?
SLOANE STEPHENS:   Yeah, of course.   I don't play tomorrow.   It will be good. 

Q.   Serena has talked a lot about how great of a player you are.   What have you gotten from her relationship?
SLOANE STEPHENS:   She's just a good friend.   I love her to death.   We were in the training room together.   She's a really good person.   I enjoy her positivity, so it's good. 

Q.   Curious about your doubles game.   How much does that help you with singles?   Does that give you some techniques, some help playing singles?
SLOANE STEPHENS:   Yeah, definitely.   I mean, I enjoy doubles a lot.   I enjoy playing with Timmy again.   It does help definitely coming to the net more, being more aggressive and stuff. 
But it's just, I mean, something that just helps you.   I think everyone should play doubles.   It's fun.   It's great. 

Q.   Has Serena given you any advice about handling the Open or New York, to deal with the craziness of this slam?
SLOANE STEPHENS:   No, not really.   Just enjoy, have fun.   We don't really discuss tennis things.   It's more about life.   We just, you know, general things, but nothing about New York.   We both love New York, though, so...

Q.   If she's not discussing actual technical things with you regarding tennis, does she discuss the way to handle the tour? 
SLOANE STEPHENS:   No.   I mean, our relationship is pretty much between us two and I don't think, like, telling what we talk about is appropriate, I'd say. 
But, no, we just talk about general stuff.   We just keep it friendly. 

Q.   Mixed doubles yesterday.   Singles and doubles today.   Mixed doubles tomorrow. 
SLOANE STEPHENS:   I have mixed doubles tomorrow? 

Q.   You're on the schedule, I think.   How are you able to keep up with that type of schedule?
SLOANE STEPHENS:   It's tough.   But it comes with all that's the US Open.   I'm excited to play every time I walk on the court.   It's fun.   The crowd is great.   Tonight it's late, there were a lot of people out there. 
Today was a really long day.   Tomorrow will be probably a really long day without matches or with a match maybe.   You know, it's just fun and I enjoy it.   As long as I'm winning, I guess it's okay. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT