WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 16, 2012
Sloane Stephens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. RADWANSKA/S. Stephens
  6‑1, 4‑6, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Tough match out there.   Can you assess your play today?
SLOANE STEPHENS:   I thought I played really well.   I did play the No. 2 ‑‑is she No. 2 or 3 in the world? 
THE MODERATOR:   She's 3.
SLOANE STEPHENS:   Yeah, just played the No. 3 person in the world.   I didn't do that bad.   So, you know, always room to improve and get better.
I think it was a good experience and I had fun out there, so always something to learn from.

Q.   I believe when you won the second set, that was the first time you had ever won a set against a top‑10 player.   For you, how big was that?   Is that a confidence booster as you move on?
SLOANE STEPHENS:   Didn't think about it, never even considered it, never even crossed my mind at all.

Q.   Now that you know that, is that something you can take and build from?
SLOANE STEPHENS:   Yeah, sure.   But I never ‑‑it's not something that I ‑‑yeah, it's just not something I ever thought about.

Q.   How are the conditions out there?   Did the wind have any effect on your play and how you approach shots?
SLOANE STEPHENS:   Yeah, it was really windy.   I was surprised.   The other day I played on Court 9 and it's been fine.   It was definitely like a change and there were a lot more people there.
You know, it was just ‑‑ I mean, conditions, are always going to be different everywhere you go; even in the same city it can be different one day to the next.   It was a little different but not that big of a difference for how we were playing.
Q.   Can you just talk about this tournament in general, just how well you played throughout?
SLOANE STEPHENS:   I played pretty well.   This will be my third day in a row playing two matches every day.   I have been winning except for my singles today, so it's been good.
I always love being in Cincinnati.   It's a great tournament.   It's really well run.   I just like being here.   I think that kinda helps.

Q.   Going into this match against a top, very top player, was your game plan any different?   You can play your game against a lot of people, but since she's at the very top, do you do things differently tactically with respect to your opponent?
SLOANE STEPHENS:   No.   I thought I played my game pretty well and executed very well.   It was only a couple points here and there that separated the match.
I thought I did some things really well, like I just stuck to what I was doing, and I think that worked really well.
It was just kind of a couple of points here and there.   First set was terrible, but I got it back going.   When I started got kinda loose and started playing, I just was executing my shows better; that's what helped me get through.
Q.   What's your schedule going to be like after the US Open? 
SLOANE STEPHENS:   Tokyo, Beijing, Osaka, and then Luxembourg.   Then my season is done.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT