INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA
May 12, 2019
Sloane Stephens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How are you feeling several weeks into the clay now about your clay life?  
SLOANE STEPHENS: Yeah, it's good.  Obviously two tournaments in, gone well so far.  Keeping the good momentum going.   
 Q.  How about with Sven, do you feel you are getting a better understanding of each other?  
SLOANE STEPHENS: Yeah, I think things are going well so far.  Obviously with a new coaching relationship, it takes a little bit of process, a little bit of learning.  So, yeah, so far so good.  Obviously we're doing what we can.  Nothing to complain about so far.   
 Q.  You have often shared your admiration of Roger Federer.  You said that Federer is your dream mixed doubles partner.  You said you would like to hit with Roger on grass.  Can we say you are the biggest Roger Federer fan?  
SLOANE STEPHENS: I think there's a lot of people in line above me that probably know a lot more detailed things about Roger's life.   
I would say that I do, I admire him a lot.  He's a great player.  He's a great person.  Obviously he's done a lot for our sport.   
I wouldn't say I'm the biggest fan, but I am definitely a fan.   
 Q.  It's been a dramatic time on the men's side of the tour in terms of political stuff, players council, Justin Gimelstob.  Have you been following any of that?  What do you make of that from the other side of the aisle?  
SLOANE STEPHENS: Yeah, I think it's an ATP issue that they will have to figure out themselves.  I mean, has nothing to do with us over here.   
 Q.  How much of an inspiration was Serena Williams to you?  Did she give you advice along the way?  
SLOANE STEPHENS: Yeah, obviously she's a great player.  A lot of us are lucky to be playing at the same time as her.   
Yeah, she is a great champion.  I think any time anyone steps on the court with her, it's an honor and privilege to play with her.   
 Q.  Lately a lot of women have practiced with men.  Elina obviously with Gael.  Is there any ATP pro that you more often than not play with or practice with?  
SLOANE STEPHENS: Not really, no.   
 Q.  Why not?  
SLOANE STEPHENS: None of the boys ask me to hit.   
 Q.  Paris last year you said you had this favorite place to get ice cream.  Is there such a place in Rome, as well?  
SLOANE STEPHENS: Well, in Rome, not really.  I like to go (indiscernible).  I say it wrong all the time.  I went there last night and have the best crème brûlée on the planet.  That's what I like to get here.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT