SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL
January 8, 2019
Sloane Stephens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. STEPHENS/E. Alexandrova
0-6, 7-6, 7-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. That was a tough start to the tournament.  How are you feeling?
SLOANE STEPHENS: A little bit tired.  It was really hot.  It was okay at the beginning, and then it got really hot.
I guess it was a little bit of a change of scenery from, like, the last two days when it was raining, cold.  Like I was wearing a sweatsuit every day.  It was a bit tough.
But I feel fine for now and just going to go back and try to do it again tomorrow.
Q. How were you feeling after that first set when you really were off?
SLOANE STEPHENS: Yeah, I was, like, it's not going to get any worse than this.  So it was like I might as well just play.
Obviously she was playing well.  Sometimes when you play a player that's just playing like that, there is not much you can do.
I know at some point that I'd be able to win a game, I would hope, so just try and do that and took it one point at a time.  That was it.
Q. Was there a turning point where you started feeling a bit of momentum, or was it just all slog all the way to the line?
SLOANE STEPHENS: Yeah, I think it was, yeah, just tough all the way through.
Q. Do you wish you were playing yesterday when the weather was a bit more forgiving?
SLOANE STEPHENS: No.  I think this kind of gets you ready for Melbourne, kind of gets you in the right frame of mind.  It's probably going to be really hot every single day in Melbourne, so I guess it's good you get adjusted and know what it's going to be like.
Like obviously when I went out there it wasn't too hot, and then it got really hot.  That can happen also, too, like in Melbourne if you play first match, like throughout the day, so I think it was just a good changeup.
Q. You are up against Putintseva next.  Have you played before?  How are you feeling about that?
SLOANE STEPHENS: Yeah, I played her last year the week before the French.  I lost.  Wasn't a great match.
But, yeah, we will see.  Now it's on hard court.  Different surface.  Same thing, before a slam.  Just going to go out there and give it my best.
Q. Last year I think you bowed out of Round 1 of this tournament.  Is there something about Sydney that's not quite right, or just start of the season is variable?
SLOANE STEPHENS: Yeah, I think just start of the season is tough.  I played the girl who made the semis.  She was playing well.  Sometimes you just get a tough draw and kind of just have to accept it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT