US OPEN
September 1, 2020
Sloane Stephens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  S. STEPHENS/M. Buzarnescu
 6-3, 6-3
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. What is the easiest and the most difficult thing about playing without the big crowd atmosphere?
 SLOANE STEPHENS:   I think it's mostly, like, the energy.  I think everyone is used to playing with just noise.  What is it when you have not an atmosphere but there's -- I don't know, whatever.
 I think everyone is very used to having people and noise, things going on in the crowd, all these things.  I just say it's very back to girl's 12s where it's like you're you and your parents, the other girl you're playing and their parents.  That's the whole match.  It's very girl's 12.  But it's just at the US Open.
 Q. You were talking to Vasek last year about a possible combination of ATP and WTA players.  Vasek led the guys into this professional tennis players association, which is men only in its current form.  What do you think of that?  Would you like to join that, have your own separate women's thing?
 SLOANE STEPHENS:   Yeah, I think they felt like they needed to do what was best for them.  The women were not included in that.  Very so much we are separate from that situation.  I know there will be discussions after the tournament to see where the women fit in with that.
 I think now once the tournament started everyone focused here on the US Open.  That's very much in the past.  I think it will be interesting to see what happens with them and what they do, how they approach it, what it is that they do.
 But I think for now, the women, we are still doing what we're doing.  We're going to evaluate what they're doing after the US Open.
 Q. What do you think about not being included in that group?
 SLOANE STEPHENS:   I mean, they said they needed to do what they needed to do.  I mean, I'm not offended.  It is what it is.  If it's right for us, it will be right for us.  If not, then not.
 I'm not going to stress out about it too much.  It might not be the right situation for us.  It might be.  We just have to wait and see.
 Q. Assess your play tonight and how you feel first round victory?  How do you feel your game is at this particular time with this particular Grand Slam?
 SLOANE STEPHENS:   Yeah, I thought I played well tonight.  Obviously haven't been playing that great.  Still kind of finding my confidence and my rhythm.  Just trying to, like, feel myself on the court a little bit better.
 I think last week was a step in the right direction.  Although I didn't win, I was feeling a little better.  Tonight I felt a little bit better on the court.  I felt I had a better rhythm.  I just kind of felt more like my old self.  That's really all I'm really working towards.
 Obviously it would be amazing to play my best tennis ever, but I know that takes a bit.  I'm going to have to just keep working, trying to get back to where I was.
 Q. We've seen so many players sitting in their suites watching other matches go on.  Have you taken advantage of that?  Do you like having that space?
 SLOANE STEPHENS:   Yeah, it's been really fun.  Andy Murray was dragging me today.  I was like, Seriously, dude?  Get off the courts.  You're taking too long.
 Other than that the matches were good.  It's nice to just be able to watch a match and not be disturbed, not disturbing anyone else.  It's actually a very cool vibe to be a tennis player and also be, like, a fan and watch.  It's very cool.
 Q. They're yours for the tournament, there for you and your team?
 SLOANE STEPHENS:   Yeah, I think.  Well, I think when you lose, they let someone else have your suite.
 Q. Do you get to add any creature comforts?  Are they stocked with everything you want?
 SLOANE STEPHENS:   They have, like, normal water, protective gear, all of the hand sanitizer, alcohol wipes, sanitizing stuff, masks, everything you could possibly think of.  Then obviously we can order food from there.  We just have our little QR code.  You press what you want, it comes in like five minutes.  You can order whatever you want.
 We can't decorate the suite.  That would have been cool.  Other than that, everything in there that you need.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT