ROGERS CUP
August 11, 2018
Sloane Stephens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. STEPHENS/E. Svitolina
6-3, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. We spoke to Elina.  She said you were better in big moments.  The three breakpoints against you, talk about the importance of those games.
SLOANE STEPHENS: Yeah, I just kept fighting.  Obviously when games get close like that, it's anyone's game.  That one game at 3-1, we had so many deuce points.  Those are games that kind of can shift a match.
Just really important to stay on top of the breakpoints, the important games with the long deuce/ad points.
Q. You've won your last four semifinals, US Open, Miami, French Open and here.  What do you bring to the big matches that helps you be successful?
SLOANE STEPHENS: I'm not sure.  I think once I get on a good run at a tournament, I'm pretty consistent, pretty solid.  I just try to keep playing, keep competing, fight hard.
Once he you get to a point, the quarters, semis, finals of a tournament, everyone is good.  Obviously everyone has been playing good to get to that point.  You just have to compete hard and try to stay calm and play your game as best you can.
Q. After you win a slam, so many more demands on your time, how you sort of keep that from interfering with the tennis.
SLOANE STEPHENS: Yeah, I think there is a lot of things that come with winning a Grand Slam.  Obviously her, she was No. 1 in the world for a long time, then obviously her one thing was to win a slam.  Of course, there's going to be a lot of obligations from Romania, her country, that's crazy.  Obviously as an American winning the US Open, that's crazy.
So everyone's circumstances are obviously different.  I think it is kind of an adjustment period after to find the right balance, make sure that you're putting your tennis first.
Q. As you head into the Open now, are you going to have to monitor that?
SLOANE STEPHENS: Yeah, I mean, when you kind of get into tournament mode, you're playing big tournaments week after week, there's not any time to do anything.
As long as you stay in the tournament, keep winning, you don't have to do anything, so yay (smiling).
Q. How are you seeing tomorrow game?  Simona won the last five matches before.
SLOANE STEPHENS: I mean, well, I just played her at French Open in the final, and we played a good match.  I played very well for a set and a half.  Hopefully tomorrow I'll play very well for two sets.  Just try to play as well as I can.
Obviously I'm playing good tennis.  She's playing good tennis.  Obviously to make a final of another tournament is incredible.  It's three finals on the year for me.  I'm really pleased with that.
I mean, obviously you worked very hard to get here to this point, so just going to compete really hard tomorrow and give it my all.  Whatever happens happens.
Q. When you play her, describe her game, how she plays, her strengths overall.
SLOANE STEPHENS: She's a good player.  She's No. 1 in the world.  I think everyone who watches her play knows how she plays.
Q. When you are getting on one of these good runs, what do you feel is working best for you?  Is it physical, mental?  Particular shots that you feel are coming off your racquet well?
SLOANE STEPHENS: Babe, if I knew the answer to that, I would do it every week (smiling).  I haven't quite figured that out.
But, no, I think overall I'm playing good.  Good weather, good conditions, good court.  We're in North America.  Food is good.  Just pretty consistent overall.
I can't put my finger on one thing to say that's the reason why I'm playing well.  Just kind of good weeks come and good weeks go.  So I don't know.  I wish I knew the answer.
Q. Something you want to improve for tomorrow?
SLOANE STEPHENS: Improve?  Like?  No, just play hard, try to get two good sets out of it, not a set and a half.
Q. You haven't lost a set this week so far.  How would you describe your level of confidence right now?
SLOANE STEPHENS: Yeah, I've been playing well, consistent.  That's great.  I played some really tough players.  Really pleased with that.  Obviously happy with my performance today.
Just going into tomorrow, I got to compete hard, do the best I can.  Obviously playing the No. 1 player in the world, I'm not supposed to win.  Just going to go out and give it my all.
Q. When you say you're not supposed to win because of the seeding and whatever, rankings, I'm sure that's not how you feel going in, right?
SLOANE STEPHENS: No, absolutely you have to respect the player.  She is the No. 1 player in the world.  On paper, I'm the No. 3 player in the world, so I'm not supposed to beat her.
Obviously I'm playing good tennis.  She's playing good tennis.  We play sports, so anything can happen.  Obviously I would love to win.  That's a part of being competitive.
To respect your opponent, obviously she's No. 1 in the world, that's just how it is.
Q. You spent a lot of time out there signing autographs, selfies.  Do you see it as an obligation or something that's fun or both?
SLOANE STEPHENS: Without fans, the WTA wouldn't be what it is.  It's not either.  It's just something that's a part of being a professional tennis player.
To make someone's day by taking a photo or signing an autograph, that's the least you can do for all the fans that come to support you, are here every day, spend their money to come watch you play.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT