US OPEN
August 27, 2019
Sloane Stephens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. KALINSKAYA/S. Stephens   
6-3, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Seemed like Anna was playing so well, particularly in the last few games. What did you make of what happened today?  
SLOANE STEPHENS: Yeah, I think she just played a good match, difficult conditions. I didn't play my best. Sometimes it happens.   
 Q.  What was she doing particularly well?  
SLOANE STEPHENS: I think when I'm not playing as consistent as I'd like to, I think it's more on my side. I was playing one good point, one bad point, one good point. The inconsistency doesn't help me at all.   
She did a good job just staying there, keep fighting. She never really let me in. Kudos to her. She executed her game style really well, yeah.   
 Q.  How did you feel coming into the match?  
SLOANE STEPHENS: Yeah, I felt good. Obviously it's going to take more than five days or whatever to get it back. I'm just going to try my best to keep going. Obviously not the result I wanted here.   
Yeah, it's disappointing, but just going to keep going. There's a couple more tournaments left. I'm just going to try to do my best there, finish out the year decently.   
 Q.  Seemed you were comfortable looking over to your box, communicating. Maybe I am wrong.  
SLOANE STEPHENS: Yeah, definitely at this point to kind of combat what I've been feeling on the court, I need a lot of energy, I need good vibes. I was joking earlier today I need to practice my fist pump because I've been so out of it, the competitiveness hasn't been there.   
Today it was back a little bit. You saw a little bit of it. Yeah, I'm just going to have to keep working to get back to where I want to be, feel how I want to feel on the court.   
 Q.  Monica was not happy with the way the transfer came from her to you. How do you think it went?  
SLOANE STEPHENS: I think there's two sides to every story. I don't think that you should tell anything but the truth. I've seen some of the things that were said. I think that grownups do grownup things. We should leave it in the past and we should move on.   
 Q.  What is your side?  
SLOANE STEPHENS: It doesn't have anything to do with me, so... Her side is her side. Whatever she said.   
But I don't think we should make it a big situation. I'm sure she's fully aware of what happened. If she has a problem, then she should approach me. It's not like I don't see her all the time.   
Yeah, to go to you guys and say everything that has been said I think is a little inappropriate. But it is what it is. We move on.   
 Q.  You're on the player council. What do you want to do with this new role?  
SLOANE STEPHENS: I think there's a lot of us. We're very top-heavy at this point. I feel like the girls that are below us that struggle a bit more, they deserve a little bit more because they are part of our tour.   
I think helping the younger girls coming up, I know it was difficult when I was playing. For me the most important about playing, having a good experience when I was, like, 17, 18, whatever, that really kind of molded my mindset of how I am now on the tour.   
I think now where the tides are changing a little bit, it's getting a little younger. I just think they need a little bit of support.   
I think for me, my biggest thing will be just making sure they get that support. Coming up, the prize money is increased, all that stuff, that's really important when you're younger.   
 Q.  Vasek Pospisil had nice things to say about you earlier. Do you think it would be a good idea to share, be stronger together?  
SLOANE STEPHENS: I think so. I love Vasek. He's a great guy, has a lot of good ideas. We all want change. We all want to make our tours better. The more unified we are going in that direction the better.   
I love that he's so passionate about changing the atmosphere and just like making our tours better. I think that's what we need right now.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT