US OPEN
August 23, 2019
Sloane Stephens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What specifically, if there's anything, have you missed in your game, being with another coach, that you think will come back to the game, now that you're back?  
SLOANE STEPHENS: Like I said before, happy to be back with Kamau. Looking forward to the future. Looking forward to competing here and starting play.   
 Q.  This is obviously a special place for you, great memories. What is it about this place, New York, that works for you?  
SLOANE STEPHENS: I think just in general being an American playing at the US Open is super special. Having won my biggest title here is probably one of the best things to happen in my career. I always look forward to coming back here and playing. The atmosphere, the fans, the support is always incredible.   
Obviously coming back here is super special and exciting to play. I think, just like I said before, being an American at the US Open is probably the coolest thing you can do.   
 Q.  Do you think diet contributes to your success at all?  
SLOANE STEPHENS: Yeah, I don't really have a go-to meal. Kind of whatever I'm feeling. Whatever I eat I probably will eat the entire tournament consistently like before a match. It kind of just depends on the day, like what I'm feeling.   
Maddie always makes fun of me because I eat sushi in the middle of matches or before matches. She literally was just talking about that.   
It's whatever I'm feeling. I don't have a certain -- it doesn't have to be specific to whatever.   
 Q.  Monday morning there's going to be an unveiling of an Althea Gibson sculpture. Talk about that.  
SLOANE STEPHENS: I think it's awesome. Obviously recognizing the greats that came before us, people that have done amazing things for our sport is cool. I saw the statue. I think it's amazing. I'm looking forward to the unveiling.   
She's a really important part of our tennis history. I think that people should be recognized. I think it's really cool they're doing it here.   
 Q.  The USTA here has a Net Generation Kid Zone where kids can play all different sports. What sports did you play? How important is it to play a lot of different sports?  
SLOANE STEPHENS: I went yesterday to the Kids Zone. It was really cool. I think it's important for kids to play multiple sports, just to find what they love, to see what it is they like instead of just being put into one sport.   
I definitely played a lot of different sports, just at school, in general, which is cool. I mean, obviously I loved tennis. It's what I stuck with. I think if you find something you love... But obviously given the option to pick from multiple different things is kind of cool.   
 Q.  Could you talk about Serena's chances at this Open. Do you consider her as the favorite?  
SLOANE STEPHENS: I think she'll do great, as she always does. We wish her the best of luck.   
 Q.  Your foundation is part of the NJTL program, celebrating its 50th year. What does that mean in terms of Arthur Ashe's legacy?  
SLOANE STEPHENS: I think it's awesome. The NJTL in general has done a lot for youth sports, especially youth tennis. It grows the game, gives kids the opportunity to play.   
Wait, I'm the new ambassador for the Excellence Team, yeah. I'm really excited about that. I think like the USTA foundation, we share the same passion for growing the game and sport, giving the kids the opportunities.   
For me, to be able to give back and have other kids look up to me, I think that's really cool. I do love to share my experience with tennis. I've always had a great experience. My first experience in tennis and my love for the game is so strong.   
My first coach was amazing. I think your first opportunity and your first time you get to play, I feel like if you have a great connection to the sport, you'll play forever. So, yeah, I think it's a really good partnership. I'm super excited about it.   
 Q.  Noah Rubin said the tour can be a lonely place. Some players talk about mental health. Do you have any advice for a young player on the tour, how can they protect themselves of this life, maintain a healthy balance?  
SLOANE STEPHENS: I think it's difficult. Obviously if you are playing a lot, you're on the road a lot, you're away from home, away from family, it's definitely lonely. It definitely can be depressing, unhappy.   
I think mental health is something we should take more seriously because you are often forced to play when you don't want to play. You're often forced to travel to places you don't want to travel. That's just the way.   
I think no one really talks about it. It is like it's your job, you have to go, whatever. I do think people should take it more seriously because it is lonely.   
I know I go to tournaments, sometimes I, like, just order room service for the entire week, I don't even see anything in the city that I am in because I'm tired, it's lonely. I kind of want to play and be through with it.   
I feel like that happens to a lot of players throughout the year. It is up and down, an emotional sport, big wins, big losses. That's just how it is. I think, yeah, we should definitely take care of our players more and be a little bit more supportive of each other.   
 Q.  With all the demands you face on the lower part of your bodies playing tennis, what is the role for the equipment companies to make sure the racquets are the safest possible for particularly young players, elbows, not causing more injuries?  
SLOANE STEPHENS: I think racquet companies, they make a lot of different racquets for different players, different types of players, obviously from beginner to high performance.   
I think it's not necessarily the racquet company, I think it's who is helping you pick out a racquet, who is telling you to buy what. I think, yeah, some kids play with racquets that are too heavy, too small, the head size is too small. I think a lot of that comes into play.   
I don't really know. Like, obviously the racquet companies are trying to make the best technology that are softer for your arm, softer to play with, longer lasting, keep your shoulders intact.   
I mean, on both sides they probably could do better with technologies they're coming out with, just the consumer buying the right product as well. I think it's kind of a double-edged sword.   
 Q.  Two years ago you won this. This year you're ranked 11th. How different of a change is it? Do you feel any less pressure not coming in having to defend?  
SLOANE STEPHENS: Yeah, I'm excited. Obviously the US Open is my favorite tournament. I love playing here. I love the crowd support. My family. There's a lot of things that come with playing in the US Open. I think it's always a place to look forward to playing.   
Yeah, it's something that I kind of look forward to all year. Just excited to get back out there and compete again.   
 Q.  Did you say you ate sushi mid match?  
SLOANE STEPHENS: Yeah, last year. Maddie brought it to me. Who was I playing? I don't remember. It was the third set. We went off the court. I don't know who gave it to Maddie. She brought it to me. I was eating it, like, in the locker room on the floor.   
She's like, You're so gross.   
It was literally in the middle of the match.   
I was like, Shut up.   
It was the only thing I could eat. Sometimes you're feeling whatever. If it's the only thing I can get down... It was unfortunate it was sushi.   
I know I burped once, it came up. I was like, Eeew.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT