HENGQIN LIFE WTA ELITE TROPHY ZHUHAI
November 1, 2017
Sloane Stephens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. SEVASTOVA/S. Stephens
7-5, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. A tough match out there today.  What do you think was the difference?  It seemed like the slices and all the variety was a bit frustrating.
SLOANE STEPHENS: Yeah.  I mean, obviously if that was in the first round of a regular tournament, that's a super hard match to play.
So right off the bat, having to play her is really tough.  I mean, her game is super tricky.  I mean, you have to kind of be ready for everything.
But I don't think I played terribly.  It's just, you know, not someone you want to play in the first round of any tournament.
Q. Just taking the result away from it, just looking at your performance tonight, you know, what were you pleased with that you were able to execute out there and what do you hope kind of gets on line before the next match?
SLOANE STEPHENS: Well, I don't know.  Well, I was happy to be playing better than my last matches, so that's a good thing.  I don't know.  I have never played one of these things before, so it's a little bit difficult.
But just doing my best, and then hopefully, for the next match, hopefully I can play well again, just a little bit better, like, a little more consistent, less unforced errors, things like that.  Just clean it up a little bit.
Q. Just a question that's not related to this tournament, but looking ahead to 2018 just a little bit, have you thought at all about scheduling and what it's going to look like for next year in terms of how heavy or how light you'll play, all that sort of stuff?
SLOANE STEPHENS: No, not really, but considering I would like to play the whole season, I'm probably going to -- well, I would like to play a little bit of a lighter schedule so I don't pack it on too much.  Obviously having foot surgery this year, I don't want to overdo it too much.
I think even now, like, in the summer I just kind of, after US Open, I pushed it a little bit too much just because I wanted to keep playing.  I think I have to manage that a little bit better, because in the end, if I push too hard, yeah, I could end up back where I was and not playing for 11 months.  Next year I definitely want to play it a little bit smarter.
Q. Obviously you were out for a lot of the time this year, but then you played a lot over the last few months.  How do you approach the offseason?  Is it something you're looking forward to having some time off and process everything that's gone on this summer?
SLOANE STEPHENS: Not really.  I mean, we have Fed Cup next week, so it's a whole other week added on to the schedule, playing here, I mean, that's, what, a month and a half you get for offseason?  I don't know.
You should take some time off, right?  So you want to take a week off, 10 days, I don't know how long you could take off and then, what, you start first of December, like, training, like, four weeks in the offseason.  It's kind of -- I don't know.  For me, having foot surgery, it's just a little tough, but, I mean, I guess you gotta do what you gotta do, right?






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT