ROLAND GARROS
May 27, 2016
Sloane Stephens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
T. PIRONKOVA/S. Stephens   
6-2, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  We're doing a feature about hitting partners, and I just wondered if you could tell me a bit about what you think the qualities of a good hitting partner are, and also about your time working with Andrew Fitzpatrick?  
SLOANE STEPHENS: Can we talk about the match first?  I'll think about that one.   
 Q.  You started well; you were leading 2-0.  What happened after?  You lost 18 points in a row and seven games in a row.  
SLOANE STEPHENS: Yeah, it was really unfortunate.  She played some good tennis, and I couldn't find a way to kind of dig it out.  I mean, looking back on it, it's really poor on my part.  Nothing you can do at this point.   
 Q.  Did you feel good when you got out there or feel like you were off in any way?  
SLOANE STEPHENS: No, I felt fine.  I started fine.  I mean, sometimes when the other person is just playing well, nothing you can do.  I wouldn't say that I played that badly, but she did play a good match.   
So, I mean...   
 Q.  Anything different from her than you expected?  Anything catch you off guard?  
SLOANE STEPHENS: No.  I played her a couple times, but, I mean, she just gave me the mop today.  (Smiling.)  That's all I can really say.  It sucks and I'm sad, but she played a good match.   
 Q.  Are you thinking that as the match is going on, like, I'm getting the mop here, or are you trying to figure out how to get yourself into it?  
SLOANE STEPHENS: No, I was thinking, Okay, I just lost seven games; should probably win one now.  Be a good time.   
But I was like, I can find a way to do something, and if you watch the end of the match you can see that nothing was really happening.   
Like I said, just one of those days.   
 Q.  You have been so consistent here.  How devastating is it, I guess, to at least not get back there again?  
SLOANE STEPHENS: It's a tournament.  Obviously I want to do well here, but, I mean, my life isn't over because I didn't make the fourth round for the fourth year in a row or something.   
It'll be okay.   
 Q.  On a happier note, you have pretty much locked up an Olympic spot at this point.  
SLOANE STEPHENS: Lucked up one?   
 Q.  Locked up.  No, no, locked.  On merit.  You deserve it?  
SLOANE STEPHENS: Oh, thank you.  I was like, Oh, okay, it just happened to make it.  Okay.   
 Q.  I know it's been a goal.  
SLOANE STEPHENS: Yeah, definitely.  I'm happy about that.  I mean, last Olympics I missed by one, so that was kind of disappointing.   
Making it this time around is special, so I'm excited about that.   
 Q.  Don't know it it's a silver lining or dark cloud, but there was a time when there was a lot of talk about how you do well at the majors and not so well at the smaller events.  This year you've been able to win some tournaments.  Just wondering if that's all part of the progression as a pro?  
SLOANE STEPHENS: I guess.  I don't know.  I feel like everyone's career has been like pretty like steady and mine has been like, What am I doing?  I guess that's just part of being an athlete, part of sports, part of growing up.   
If I hadn't won three tournaments this year I would probably be kind of disappointed.  There are definitely things to be happy about with that.  Hopefully during some of the majors I can get back to where I was before making the second week pretty consistently.  Something I'm just going to have to work on.   
 Q.  Doing a feature about hitting partners.  What makes a good hitting partner, and can you tell us about your time working with Andrew Fitzpatrick?  
SLOANE STEPHENS: A god hitting partner:  someone who is consistent; someone who you like to be around; someone you enjoy traveling with, because they are with you a lot of the year - most of the time.   
I don't know.  I think just someone that you enjoy having around.  Andrew, I love him.  He's a good guy.  We had a lot of fun together.  Yeah, I don't know.  Yeah, I like Andrew.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT