BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 12, 2016
Sloane Stephens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








E. BOUCHARD/S. Stephens
7-5, 7-5
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. So much talent.  So much talent.  How do you feel about your match you just played?  The thoughts.  You had a couple of breaks there.
SLOANE STEPHENS: Yeah, definitely I played to protect.  I didn't play to win today.  Genie played a good match.  It was unfortunate I couldn't step up in the moments that I would have liked to, but that's how it is in sports sometimes, so...
Q. Is there anything in particular that you would work on?  I know your next big tournament is the Miami, so what are your thoughts?  I just see so much talent in you, Sloane.  It's just fabulous.
SLOANE STEPHENS: Thank you.
Q. Just hoping that, you know, I know it's going to show up real soon.  What are your thoughts about what you're going to work on and where you're going?
SLOANE STEPHENS: There are always things to work on, obviously.  I played pretty good this year so far.  Today was just unfortunate.
Like I said, I played to protect.  When you get out there you have to play to win.  It was unfortunate, but this whole tennis thing it's definitely a learning process.  So I know that I have things to work on, and hopefully going into next week I can get myself together and have a good week next week.
Q. You're a fabulous player.
SLOANE STEPHENS: Thank you.
Q. So you just said sounds like you were too passive at certain points in the match.
SLOANE STEPHENS: Yeah, I didn't take advantage of my opportunities, and you can't do that.  Just never works out well.
Q. There were points in the match where you both were playing well and taking advantage and moving in, punching balls out.
SLOANE STEPHENS: Yeah.  Definitely.  I mean, I didn't think I played like atrocious.  I thought I played a solid match.  I just didn't take advantage of my opportunities and I would have done some things differently.
Like I said, that's -- you know, sometimes just doesn't work out that way.
Q. What is it that causes you not to take advantage?  Just that's the way it is from time to time?
SLOANE STEPHENS: Yeah.  I mean, it's not -- I mean, there was a break point at 30-40 in one of those games and I played an amazing point and she just played it better.  Like sometimes just the way it works out or a missed return you go for it and miss it.
Things happen, and, you know, you don't -- like I said, there is obviously things I can work on, but I'm not going to be too down about it.  I mean, I have been playing well this season.  Just something to learn from.
Q. The conditions here, ball flying and sort of like gripping the court and slowing down; is it hard out there?
SLOANE STEPHENS: Yeah, definitely.  The wind is swirling.  I think it was windy all match.  It's just kind of -- it's a good court.  I like the court.  I like the way it bounces.  Bounces a little higher.
For me I like it, but it's definitely different than any other place we play.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT