U.S. OPEN
August 31, 2015
Sloane Stephens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
C. VANDEWEGHE/S. Stephens   
6-4, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Curious about the business side of things.  Last year enjoyed seeing your photo walking the boardwalk with American Express.  Are you still with American Express for endorsements?  
SLOANE STEPHENS: No.  They decided to go in a different direction.   
 Q.  What did you learn from this match?  
SLOANE STEPHENS: I mean, it was disappointing.  I thought I played a pretty good match.  She played a good match.  I mean, obviously there's things I could have done better, situations that I thought I could have done some different things.   
But, I mean, it's too soon.  I got to go back and think about it obviously.   
 Q.  It's an old cliché:  you have to learn from a loss.  There's nothing that stands out in your mind?  
SLOANE STEPHENS: No, not at the moment.   
 Q.  In the sixth game of the second set when you hit that ace to make it deuce, did you feel like that could turn things?  
SLOANE STEPHENS: Yeah.  But, I mean, there was obviously still a lot of work to be done.  It wasn't there today.  You know, no matter what I was doing, I was trying my butt off and it just wasn't there.   
I mean, I hit some good shots; she hit some better ones.  That was kind of how it was.   
 Q.  In other sports you watch videotapes of opponents.  Is that something that tennis players do?  
SLOANE STEPHENS: I mean, yeah, you do.  But in the sport you play the same girls week in and week out.  You know pretty much everyone's game throughout the year.   
You do go back and look at some stuff.  Most of the time, whether you're practicing with them at a tournament before or playing them, it's all the same really.   
 Q.  Six seeded players already lost in the ladies draw.  Do you think that's a coincidence?  Why is it so hard for you seeded players?  
SLOANE STEPHENS: I don't know.  Maybe just a bad day.   
 Q.  How did you feel coming into this tournament?  
SLOANE STEPHENS: I felt good.  I felt really confident.  I felt well.  I was excited to get here.   
Today just wasn't meant to be.  It wasn't my day.  Obviously I am disappointed, but it won't be the last tournament I ever play, and it certainly won't be my last US Open.   
I can't be too down about it.   
 Q.  Where do we see you, the fabulous, wonderful Sloane, three years from now?  Five years from now?  Will you be No. 1?  
SLOANE STEPHENS: Honestly, right now I have no answer for that question.   
 Q.  As you think about your goals and objectives, is it to be perhaps No. 1?  
SLOANE STEPHENS: My goal is to be the best tennis player I can be.  If I only ever end up being -- my career high is 11 in the world, that is what it was meant to be and that's it.  But I'm going to work my butt off to get further than that.   
We'll see.   
 Q.  Is there anything special you'll work on as a result of that match?  
SLOANE STEPHENS: No.  Just get back to work.  Get back in the gym.  Just keep working hard.  Like I said, it's not the end of the world.  It's one match.   
There's plenty more tennis left in the season.  Just got to get back to work.   
 Q.  It wasn't a matter of conditioning or poor shot selection?  
SLOANE STEPHENS: She played a good match today.  I can't do anything about that.  I can't control my opponent.  I can only control what I'm doing.   
Like I said, I tried my butt off and it didn't happen today.  That's all.   
 Q.  You're with Under Armour.  Talk about the success the brand itself, in particular Stephen Curry and Misty Copeland, are experiencing?  
SLOANE STEPHENS: Misty, obviously she has an amazing career.  Steph, he's unbelievable.  Jordan Spieth, he's unbelievable.  Lindsay Vaughn.   
So many incredible athletes.  I'm happy I'm with an amazing company.  I've been with them for a really long time.  The support they give me is great, so I couldn't ask to be with a better company.   
 Q.  In terms of Under Armour, the designing, how much of an input do you have in your design?  
SLOANE STEPHENS: A lot.  I have like eight fittings a year.  It's a very intense situation.  We go through colors, we go through cuts, everything that you could imagine.  I mean, I'm really involved.  I like it.  All of my outfits, I've loved them this year so far.  It's been good.   
 Q.  You would say it's a collaborative effort, everything you're wearing you had input, it's your style?  
SLOANE STEPHENS: Yes, sir.   
 Q.  You have heritage from Trinidad Tobago.  Are you doing anything to encourage people in that country to develop more players?  
SLOANE STEPHENS: No.  I have not directly had any impact on anyone from Trinidad and Tobago.  In the States I do a lot with kids, getting kids into tennis, schools, all of that.  I'm really into that, but not directly in Trinidad.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT