WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC: ROUND ONE
March 8, 2006
Luis Sojo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q.  Today your pitching worked fine and I believe that a winning lineup you don't change, right?   
 COACH LUIS SOJO:  Indeed, I mean, pitching work very nicely today and as expected.  Freddy pitched very strong innings, Carlos you saw how intense he was.  He pitched 28 pitches in one inning and we didn't let him go beyond 55 pitches.   
 As far as the lineup is concerned, we gave Carlos Guillen an off-day today because we intend to make him play tomorrow.  On second base maybe then Edgardo we'll move him to designated hitter and we also keep Endy Chavez in case, if necessary.   
  Q.  Today's win, to some extent does that relieve or take pressure off.  Yesterday you said that there was some pressure mounting, so to what extent does it give you some peace of mind?   
 COACH LUIS SOJO:  There is no pressure, we won.   
  Q.  Besides pitching, that obviously was the highlight today, what other strong points do you want to mention about today's game?   
 COACH LUIS SOJO:  Well, I think the other thing that worked right for us is that we finally started hitting, and hitting at the right time which is important.  Of course, I mean the pitching sets the tone.  Set the tone for us today, but all the other players also came around.   
 As far as motivation is concerned, since yesterday the boys have been talking in the dugout and they're really very intense and very motivated to move on to the next round and grow together, I guess.   
  Q.  Talk a little bit about Miguel Cabrera and I guess maybe his where he fits in right now.  I know he's young but where he fits into the baseball landscape in Venezuela.   
 COACH LUIS SOJO:  Well, Miguel is our main guy.  That's why he's the clean-up hitter for me.  To be honest with you, Miguel, I don't know where he's going to land.  This guy has got quite a bright future.  He's unbelievable.  He's unbelievable.  Every time he hits the ball he hits it hard somewhere.  And I know pitching him from now on they're going to be careful with him because he can hit anybody.   
 So I hope he continues to do that and hopefully he will put us in the second round.   
  Q.  Could you talk about the reaction of the crowd when they heard your name and about every time that Robert Perez was at home plate.   
 COACH LUIS SOJO:  We won.  No comment.   
  
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT