WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC: ROUND ONE
March 7, 2006
Miguel Cabrera
Johan Santana
Luis Sojo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Curious, you guys, talk about the crowd.  How did it affect you and were you surprised of how strong they were for you guys today. 
 JOHAN SANTANA:  I wasn't surprised at all, because that's the way we do it.  Today I think we showed what Latin baseball is all about.  That's what we do.  From either side, Dominican Republic and Venezuela, we show today how the passion is about the game and how the fans are appreciate everything that we do on the field. 
 So it was, I don't think it was anything different for me and all the players over there today. 
 Q.  And how about for the American fans that were watching.  How we can maybe learn something from you guys when it comes to being excited at games. 
 JOHAN SANTANA:  I definitely think so.  So in our countries, you know, fans go beyond the game.  It's not just about being a fan; it's about passion.  It's about loving the game.  I think when it comes down to that in the Latin countries, I think we do a pretty good job. 
 And it's nothing against anybody.  I think American fans are great too.  It's just that it's a different feeling when you play, especially when you play and represent your country. 
 Q.  Everybody knows that it was the first game, so after the outcome of this first game, how does this change the attitude of the Venezuelan team for the following games? 
 LUIS SOJO:  Well, obviously it puts more pressure on us and those who thought it was going to be an easy game were obviously mistaken.  Now we have to go back to the hotel and put ourselves together and start thinking about tomorrow's game against Italy. 
 I think that we hit well, maybe we didn't hit in a timely manner, and we were coming from behind until Miguel hit the top of the fence.  We thought it was a home run, but the umpires, you know, thought different. 
 We were getting close, but until David Ortiz hit his second home run, and then Beltre hits his home run and the game was over. 
 Q.  Just two questions about your managing strategy.  First of all, during that eighth inning I understand that from the beginning you wanted to bring in your relievers and that was your decision to bring Victor Zambrano in. And then the other decision in the top of the ninth when you had first base open and you decided to pitch to David Ortiz, and then again the game was over. 
 LUIS SOJO:  This is an answer to the Venezuelan journalist, I told you from the beginning we managers we manage by instinct.  I checked with Roberto (Espinoza) and he told me that Victor was pitching well, and so we decided to let him pitch in the ninth.  When the other turn came up, we brought in the lefty, Carlos Hernandez, and then we decided to pitch because the choice we had was, if we walked him, then we had to face another great hitter like Moises Alou. 
 Carlos pitched him will well.  He threw a couple of sinkers very well, but then of course the last pitch was a little high, was smack in the center of the plate and that's where big hitters come through, and Dave Ortiz is a big hitter, and he came through big time. 
 And now we're 0-1 so we have to get ready for the next game. 
 Q.  Two quick questions.  First of all, in light of the outcome of this game, how does this affect the pitching rotation, whether you still want to keep the same pitching rotation you have in mind for the next game, Australia and Italy.  And then the second question is that there were always questions about the lineup and Edgardo Alfonzo wasn't thought of but initially he came also through big time today.  So what do you think about the next games? 
 LUIS SOJO:  No, this hasn't changed our thoughts about the pitching rotation.  We still have as originally thought we have Freddy Garcia coming up and then for the following game, Carlos Silva. 
 As to this game, obviously it opened our eyes.  We had a great team facing us and only one team to win and it was them today. 
 As far as Edgardo Alfonzo, no, I don't have any doubts about including him in the lineup.  The only doubt I had was about his position.  And he told me that, since it was in the plans of California Angels to try him at second base, that's why h played second base and I had Miguel playing third base.  All of those players, they are very enthusiastic and they're very eager to play and they showed it today. 
 Q.  Just two quick questions.  One for Luis, whether you have in mind doing any changes into the lineup for the next game?  Another question is for Miguel Cabrera, what are your impressions after this first game? 
 LUIS SOJO:  No, I don't have in mind any changes in the lineup tomorrow.  Maybe we'll be facing a left-handed pitcher, so maybe that will impose some changes on our behalf, but, no, I haven't thought about any changes to the lineup. 
 MIGUEL CABRERA:  Our impressions again, you know, I think it was a good game and unfortunately we lost.  I think we have to learn some lessons, maybe being more aggressive and not make mistakes, any more mistakes. 
 Try to start winning from the first inning and not having to come from behind like this time. 
 Q.  You said there were no changes, you didn't plan or didn't intend to make any changes into the lineup, however, there are some questions about the catchers.  There was some talk about Victor Martinez being the catcher, but today we saw Ramon Hernandez, what can you tell us about that? 
 LUIS SOJO:  We have to wait until tomorrow.  I asked Ramon before today's game and I'm going to do the same thing tomorrow.  Both are very good players and have enormous versatility on this team and it will also depend on who is going to pitch tomorrow. 
 So in answer to your question, we have to wait until tomorrow. 
 Q.  Johan, you're known for being a control pitcher and this time you walked like three batters.  But after all this, it's baseball but what can you tell us about it? 
 JOHAN SANTANA:  In answer to your question, we always try to do well, we always try to pitch well.  And we were all excited and we were all motivated.  It's true, I was somehow inconsistent, but also there was some inconsistency behind home plate.  And sometimes there are things that you cannot avoid and you have to struggle with. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT