AL DIVISION SERIES: YANKEES v ATHLETICS
October 7, 2000
Luis Sojo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 

Q.  What are you laughing about all the time?
 
LUIS SOJO: Just having fun.  
 

Q.  If we had told you beforehand that the guy we wanted to talk to going into this game would be you, would you have ever thought it would be you sitting up at the podium?
 
LUIS SOJO: No.  To be honest, no.  Now I know how my teammates feel.  (Laughing.)  But I mean, this is a great moment for me.  I'm having a good time.  Like I said all the time, the most important thing for me is to win games.  
 

Q.  Similar question.  When you came over from Pittsburgh, you were very honest about the fact that you thought about coming back here a lot.  Was this anywhere in that thought, that you'd have this role that you have right now?
 
LUIS SOJO: No chance.  I mean, I know they wanted me back.  But as soon as they got me back, I never think that I'm going to be in every day.  I've been doing this job for three or four years here, and I mean, I got the chance to play before I retire.  It's like a dream come true.  
 

Q.  Will your approach change, your hitting approach, batting second as opposed to batting at the bottom of the line-up?
 
LUIS SOJO: No.  No.  Every time I go in there, I just try to make contact.  I think if you make contact, you are going to get a chance to get a base hit.  
 

Q.  What is your approach right now? It seems like you're seeing the ball great, hitting it hard everywhere.  Are you just on a good streak? Is there something you're doing ?
 
LUIS SOJO: It's different when you play every day and you're on the bench.  I play every day.  I come early to the ballpark.  I prepare myself for that.  Like I said, just hit the ball well all the time.  I try to stay right on the ball all the time.  
 

Q.  Joe Torre said that it's a technique to be a bench player, play once a week or something like that, and come out and play well.  What is it about that technique that makes you successful?
 
LUIS SOJO: Preparation.  That's important.  That's what I've been doing all this year.  And when the game starts, I just don't sit over there and relax.  I always am thinking about,  "They are going to give me a chance to play," and whenever they need me, I go there 100 percent.  
 

Q.  Do you feel it's any different batting closer to the front of the line-up than in the back?
 
LUIS SOJO: No.  
 

Q.  Different pressure?
 
LUIS SOJO: I love to hit second.  I mean, because that's the type of hitter I am.  I play to hit the ball.  I just have to lighten up.   I don't think it's different.  
 

Q.  What did you miss most about being away from the Yankees?
 
LUIS SOJO: My teammates.  I mean, I been all over the place in my career, but I never had these kind of teammates.  People think because we win.  But I mean, we are a unit.  That's important.  When you have guys like Joe Torre on your side, that's good, too.  
 

Q.  When you came here, it was mostly to be a bench player.  Now that you've been starting, is that easier on you? Is it easier knowing you're definitely going to be in the line-up rather than coming to the line-up, not really sure when you're going to play?
 
LUIS SOJO: It's easy for me.   Today I come, I see the bottom of the line-up, I don't see my name, I say,  "Oh, what happened." I was batting second.  But it's more easy for me.  Like I said, preparation has been important for me.  Then that's what I've been doing all these years.  
 

Q.  Joe just came in here now and said one of the reasons he's put you up to No. 2 is "Sojo has been our offensive player."  Do you laugh at that? All the guys in the line-up, you're the offensive player. 
 
LUIS SOJO: It gives me more confidence.  Like Joe, he knows what I can do.  I'll play every time I go there, I'll make things happen.  I think the only reason I bat second is because he's lefty.  If Jeter's going to get on, then I put him at second.  If he's at second, I'll put him at third. 
 

Q.  Did you say the word "retire" before?
 
LUIS SOJO: Well, I think about that so many times.  But I got a difficult job.  I mean, I'm 35 years old, believe it or not.  I know people told me about that.  But I mean, it's hard, what I do.  I see too many guys that try to  -- guys 28, 29, who can do the same thing that I do.  It's going to get hard for me to get a job.  I don't want to retire, to be honest with you.  I want to play until I'm 50.  But I understand what my role is.  If I can't get a job next year, I'll just shut it down.  I'm thinking about this year.  When they put me on waivers, I told my wife, "If I don't get picked up by the Yankees, I'll just shut it down."  
 

Q.  Did you have any notions when you left here after last year, or did anybody say anything to you that there was a possibility that you would be back here?
 
LUIS SOJO: The first time I heard that, I was in spring training.  They talked about trading me back, when D'Angelo got hurt.  But I always keep on my mind that I'm going to come back.  Like I say before, I kept talking to Derek, Jorge and Tino for the year.  They kept saying,  "Luis, we are gonna get you back, don't worry.  We are gonna get you back."  If you didn't see, I lose my hair in Pittsburgh, but I'm here now.  I have a great time and that's the most important thing for me.  
 

Q.  Has Chuck Knoblauch talked to you at all throughout the series?
 
LUIS SOJO: We just talk about the game, what's going on, about how to play here.  I been there every day.  That's basically all we talk about.  
 

Q.  The double play, the last one you made, the great one there, two-part question.  What's the toughest part making that play - the catch or getting up and being able to set yourself to make the good throw? And, two, did Hernandez tell you the ball was going to be hit to you before the pitch? That was the talk last night. 
 
LUIS SOJO: The tough part was to catch the ball because I didn't see it come off the bat.  He hit it so hard.  It's like the last second I saw the ball.  But I feel like I got it.  I just tried to get the guy on second base because it was a tight game over there.  I never thought about not throwing to first.  It's a good play right there.   El Duque, he's telling me, "He's going to hit it to you, he's going to hit it to you."  Throw a changeup.  I told him,  "Just throw the ball and I do my job, don't worry about me." 
 

Q.  Do you still live in Venezuela?
 
LUIS SOJO: Uh-huh.  
 

Q.  What is it like for you down there? You're famous and popular, right?
 
LUIS SOJO: You can say that.  (Laughter.) When I get there, I'm there for three days, I see all over the papers, "Luis Sojo's career was over."  You see a lot, a lot of phone calls from my family and my friends.  I say,  "Well, I still got a chance to go back to the Yankees, so you got to wait."  But, yeah, I got to see Galarraga.  
 

Q.  Were you in Venezuela when the Yankees brought you back?
 
LUIS SOJO: No, I was in Pittsburgh.  
 

Q.  Still in Pittsburgh?
 
LUIS SOJO: I went home for three days and came back.  
 

Q.  Outside of yourself, hits have been hard to come by.  Why do you think that is?
 
LUIS SOJO: It's luck. Like you say, we lost the last seven games of the series, the first game of the playoffs.  Still, we can't hit with men on base.  Finally, the second game, Glenallen and myself, we come through with those two hits.  I think that broke the ice for us.  
 

Q.  Did you come here with a packed suit case?
 
LUIS SOJO: Tonight, you mean? 
 

Q.  Yes. 
 
LUIS SOJO: No chance.  I told my wife,  "We'll see what happen. Something happen, I'll call you after the game."  My thing, you got to finish tonight.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT