WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC SEMIFINALS AND FINAL
March 20, 2009
Luis Sojo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Welcome everyone, we have team Venezuela, we have Manager Luis Sojo, and third baseman Melvin Mora joining us. 

 Q. Good afternoon, Luis. I wanted you to talk to us about Hernandez and Melvin, do you have ready your lineup for tomorrow? 
 LUIS SOJO: Good afternoon, everybody. Melvin is fine. Actually, I was just talking to him as we were walking over here, and he said that he's ready for tomorrow. Ramon is also ready. Like we say, we are "on the ball," based on what's coming. And tomorrow, we're going to go with Endy Chavez for center field, Melvin Mora for third base, Cabrera at first base, Magglio Ordonez in left field, Hernandez will be catching, as well. 

 Q. Luis, in Miami you were talking about the Korean team, and you said at a certain point that you thought perhaps it would be one of the strongest teams, or maybe one of the favorites for the final. Now you are facing them at the finals. Please tell us about the Korean team and the challenge it is for you to face one of those teams. 
 LUIS SOJO: The Yankee team is going through a really good time, as we are. I think that they played good baseball. They play small ball, and when you do small ball, you are going to win the game. 
 We have received a Mendez report, and we have the videos aside from the place, and the baseball games that I saw through 3 in the morning. We have a clear vision as to what we are going to do. We want to go out and do things well so that we can actually win. 

 Q. Luis, at the press conference in Miami, you were saying that, absolutely, tomorrow, Carlos Silva. Is there any chance that Felix could come as he started with Italy, or maybe for the final? 
 LUIS SOJO: That would be the manager's decision, and perhaps tomorrow -- things are not going to change. We are looking at the versatility that Carlos can go up to 100 pitches, and I think that we have a lot of versatility at the bullpen. 
 So in the beginning, when we played against Italy, this was not a problem. There were comments and controversy, but that's past. 
 We now are focussing on what's coming tomorrow. And Carlos Silva is a man who has the responsibility to give us that win. 

 Q. For both of you. Tomorrow is a most important game in your career? 
 LUIS SOJO: Take that off, man! 
 MELVIN MORA: I was listening to Japanese and Korean, so that's everything I hear. 
 LUIS SOJO: I'm going to answer so that you can follow. Personally, yes, not only tomorrow's game, but Monday's as well. We have been in very important tournaments in Venezuela, World Cups. But to bring that to Venezuela, personally, I think that would be the most important win in my career. 
 MELVIN MORA: The win for us is the most important thing. But playing ball against the Asian teams, this is something that really will take a lot of preparation for us. I played in that area in 1998, '97, '98, and Korean people, Taiwan, Taipei, Japan, do not give up. Doesn't matter how you present yourself, you need to work really hard. 
 Like I said at a previous press conference, these people do not give up and we need to play ball. Those of us who play ball, we need to do it. 

 Q. I want to ask you, among Korean players, who do you fear the most? Which hitters and which pitchers do you fear the most? Please tell us. 
 LUIS SOJO: I can answer in Spanish, right? 
 THE MODERATOR: Yes, that's fine. 
 LUIS SOJO: Okay. I saw the Korean games, and, offensively, we really need to be aware of the fourth batter, he is very strong. I said that two days ago. I think he is going through a very good offensive moment. And when a strong man is going through a good spell, we need to be very aware. 
 But obviously, the first batter, the second batter, those are the ones that have the count at 3-2, and when they are on bases, they do the small things. We really need to be very aware of each and every one of them, because there is no tomorrow for any of the two teams. Whoever is doing the best, will take the victory. 
 MELVIN MORA: I think the key is going to be Strike 1, Strike 2. If you come and stay on top of the lead-off guy, you are going to be fine. If you let the lead-off guy get on base, we are going to be in trouble. Because I know the 2, 3, 4, 5 guys, they hack, and we are going to be in trouble. 
 So the key to this short series is going to be the lead-off guy, Strike 1, Strike 2, and get rid of the lead-off guy. 

 Q. You could think that Venezuela playing against Korea hypothetically should be an easy team for Venezuela. When did it stop being an easy game? When did you actually see that Korean or Japanese teams, Wow, these are teams that have changed? When did that mind-set change for you in terms of those two teams? 
 LUIS SOJO: I've said that in a tournament as important as this one, there is no small enemy. And the Asian teams through the years continue to improve that competitive level that they have to come to this type of level. This is our world tournament, everybody is talking about Korea being a team that can be in the finals. So we need to respect that, and we are aware of that. 
 For us, what is most important, perhaps, is that we are also going through a really good stretch, so we need to go and play small ball to achieve victory. We're pitching well, and we are batting in timely situations, so we have also the experience in Toronto and Miami. 
 In Miami, they did not bat as much, but they were using their opportunities. With that game we had in Toronto, with up to 15 hits, that really gives us peace of mind. But we should not sit on our laurels and think that we're done. 

 Q. You said you saw the Korean baseball on video. Based on your analysis of Korean baseball video, compared to Venezuelan, which is the distinct characteristics between the two? 
 LUIS SOJO: Actually, honestly, they're very similar. I think that Korean baseball is an aggressive baseball in that they like to run, they like to do the small things. I think that those are the characteristics of Venezuelan baseball. 
 Perhaps you are seeing in Venezuela an offensive lineup that is very productive. In Melvin's case, he is the third batter with the Orioles, Ordonez is also in the major leagues. Those are offensive teams who produce runs and hit home runs. We have Manny Chavez, Gregor Blanco, Izturis, and these are the guys getting to the bases and putting pressure on catchers. 
 Basically, what I saw on the videos of Korea, I was impressed. Melvin said these guys do not know how to give up, they play ball, and we respect that. 

 Q. Luis, the reason why Marco Scutaro is starting and not Izturis, is that because of the moment you're living in the classic or the rival? 
 LUIS SOJO: I think that I maintained that routine with them in case of -- I went with the experience even though they are similar. I think that the experience in a very important tournament such as this one is very important. Doesn't mean that Gregor cannot overcome the pressure. It's basically what I based it on. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 LUIS SOJO: I think Marco defensively has the same level as Cesar does, and perhaps looking at the offensive aspect, that is very important for any team. 

 Q. Luis, in regards to Carlos Silva, taking into account the type of pitcher that he is, what advantages or what kind of edge does he have facing the Korean hitters as you've seen the hitters? 
 LUIS SOJO: I can't tell you that because the Korean media is here, and they can -- anyway, the characteristics are great. I think that Korea has a lot of southpaws, and that answers your question right there. I know that they're aware of this but I would rather not help anyone. Sorry, guys! (Laughter.)

 Q. Luis, talk to me about the difference of playing in Miami, that is basically like playing in Venezuela, and now you are here with the great Korean community in Los Angeles and perhaps the fans will be rooting for Korea. 
 LUIS SOJO: Well, I don't know if the fans were rooting for us or not, but they enjoyed it equally. Having one over there is the gift that we can give our national team to the fans. They support us and we bring the satisfaction to them. 
 Here, there is a great number of Korean fans and without a doubt, most of them will not be rooting for us. But our guys are really -- they really do have the mind-set to win the crown. And tomorrow we are going to be there and do our best and let's get loud, actually! 

 Q. Melvin, from the point of view of a batter, of a hitter, please talk to us about the difficulty or how complicated it could be to face pitchers that, first of all, you've never seen before, or if you've seen them, you've only seen them a few times, that have some very special angles and movements of pitching that are not so common? Can you talk to us about that? 
 MELVIN MORA: What I've talked about or said to my teammates is that their practice is really hard. The pitchers pitch at the bullpen all the time; batters in excess of 1500 swings on a daily basis; that's their practice. When I talk about this to my friends and my team, they said, Stop it, because I'm getting tired already! 
 In reality, both Koreans and Japanese, and all of the Asian teams, those are franchises that come into the field and really play hard. Our disadvantage is that we have not seen them. Their disadvantage is that they have not seen us, in the major leagues, but we have had the opportunity to see them a little bit. That is actually our advantage. We don't know each other all that well. 

 Q. Melvin, the feeling, what you are living through today, a day before the game, is it similar at all to anything that you've lived before within your career, or is this definitely different? 
 MELVIN MORA: I think so. It's similar. For instance, when we are in Venezuela, it's similar with the pitching and everything else. But it was just said, including Endy Chavez in this rotation, because we are going for the experience. We should not get weak at all, and we have been competing under pressure before. 
 Everybody knows in Venezuela that Caracas Magallanes is not easy, and I've been in the Big Apple as well, New York. Here, the experience will work in our favor, jointly with the speed and the defense that we can bring to the game. 

 Q. Luis, how much are you expecting from Carlos Silva tomorrow? What will you be satisfied with coming from him taking into account the difficulty of the game? 
 LUIS SOJO: Well, as a manager, you really want your pitcher to go through the nine innings, but we know this is difficult because it is very strong competition, a very difficult tournament. However, Carlos, in Miami, he pitched seven innings and did not go up to 85 pitches. He knows his game very well. And if we can't go to the bullpen, well, okay, he can give us eight innings, and someone can do the rest. It will not be an easy job, and we are hoping things will go well. 

 Q. Luis, the ballplayers coming to the forum are saying one of the things they have loved about this team is the chemistry, the camaraderie. What's more difficult as a manager, to handle and manage the strategies, or having relationships in harmony? 
 LUIS SOJO: I think the harmony. But this has not been the case of Venezuela. The first meeting we had in Leland, because I think that was the only one because I would be in charge of the rest, they have made things very easy for me. Like I said, from day one, these gentlemen came here to attain a goal. We all want to be the champions, but they have made things very easy for me. They have maintained themselves together, cohesive. 
 And I go back to 2006, if I want to find out any answers about that. But when you go back to 2006, when all the ball players had offensive problems, everybody was going, like, crazy, chemistry was lost. But here, everybody arrived fine, in good shape with the timing that you look for when you are a hitter. They are fine. 
 What they talk about is hitting and pitching and they communicate. And these are the things that make things very easy for a manager. Besides, you know, this is great. They know what they want and why they came for this classic. 
 MELVIN MORA: The strategy in terms of chemistry is up to me. He leaves it up to me. 

 Q. Luis, I would like for you to talk to us and describe the type of the work behind the technical team. I think they've been your right hand, not only at this Classic, but also in terms of the previous roles that they played, coming to play with the players, having this dual role. Talk to us about the technical team that has come with you through now. Give them credit and tell me about the roles that they each played. 
 LUIS SOJO: This really has been an excellent technical staff. You've said it. When we went to Arizona and we gave (indiscernible), Roberto Espinoza and myself, we really did not know what the destiny for Venezuela would be. I think when we first arrived at the Mariners training field, we were relieved because we knew about the situation with the pitchers. And Felix and Carlos said, Where are we going to sign, we are the ones? 
 So that really gives you peace of mind. Afterwards, we continued moving forward and looking for what we needed to look for. And the technical stuff, Melvin can tell you, in terms of Galarraga, I mean, I'm looking -- I go out there looking for them, and they're already working with the guys, you know, how well they've worked with the pitchers and the rest of the coaches. When I met with them in Orlando, I said, This year we are here to work, and don't consider this to be a vacation. We are all here with a purpose to prepare the guys to be ready for the competition. 
 And we've achieved it. I have absolutely nothing negative to say about them, just positive things. If we need to do it again, I would most certainly call on them. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you, team Venezuela.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT