ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
February 25, 2015
Gary Wilson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Gary, your good record against UAE continues.  You obviously love batting against them.  Couldn't quite see them home, but    GARY WILSON: Thanks, mate.  Yeah, I thought we got to the line, just couldn't quite get over it.  Never in doubt at the end.   Q.  You felt good obviously from the start, did you?  GARY WILSON: Yeah, I was confident going out there.  Yeah, obviously searching for a few runs coming into this game, but I generally was confident going out there.  I thought today was going to be the day it turned.   Q.  Gary, after the start you moved along and just got the scoreboard moving again after those early wickets?  GARY WILSON: Yeah, it's definitely a rebuilding period.  Obviously we knew with the hitters we had coming in, John and Kevvy, that we had a little bit of time to rebuild.  We were talking the whole way throughout like we were   I think me and Andrew had it under control to an extent.   Q.  And they stood at the other end watching Kevin?  GARY WILSON: Yeah, a few people have mentioned that to me now.  Obviously I've batted a lot with Kev over the last 10 years, maybe even longer, probably the last 15 years.  Obviously last year at Surrey and then with Ireland.  So yeah, I think we dealt with it really nicely.  Obviously I just poked it for one and he hits it out of the grounds.  It was great.   Q.  Any regrets about your final shot?  It was a pretty good shot, wasn't it?  GARY WILSON: Yeah, I just obviously didn't quite get it far enough, but I thought it obviously would have been great to be there and see the boys   it's always easier when you're out there and there's some serious pace whenever I got up.   Q.  When they got four by George Dockrell, where did that come from?  GARY WILSON: He's good, inside out overall, off sides, he's learning.   Q.  Not surprised?  GARY WILSON: No, I wanted Dockrell to on the side, I thought he was going to hit for four here.  When he was on strike it was harder.   Q.  Gary, one thing about this game was obviously there was a fair bit of expectation that you were going to win and win it well, then they get some runs, you lose some early wickets in the chase.  Does it become a confidence builder that you can win despite having a bit of a struggle through the game?  GARY WILSON: Look, it was obviously closer than we wanted it to be, definitely.  But I said earlier that we've been in this position before at a World Cup, big tournament, big stage, and chased down totals before, and I think that really stood us in good stead.  We knew that if a couple of us were there until close to the end that we had a pretty good shot at winning.   Q.  And what about the   I suppose the closest of the contests.  I think this is the first game of the World Cup so far to actually get to the final over.  GARY WILSON: Yeah, just remind me, was it two teams outside the top eight that played this game that made it a good game, was it?   Q.  That's correct.  GARY WILSON: Yeah, look, it was obviously   UAE have come on pretty strong the last couple years.  They've obviously got great facilities over there, as well, and I think they've probably moved as quick as anyone outside the top ten teams in the world.   Q.  Just one about Shaiman Anwar.  Clearly his confidence is on the up and up.  What was it like dealing with him out there?  GARY WILSON: Obviously not great because he got a hundred.  He played really well.  We've played against him a lot in the past, as well, and he's a good player, obviously, and today he obviously played pretty well.   Q.  There was just one incident toward the end of the innings with him and Kevin and the wides and outside off stumps.  How did you see it from your angle?  GARY WILSON: I don't know.  I think my understanding of the rule is that the bowler is entitled to pull out if the batsman moves.  I think the batter is deemed to be wasting time.  I don't know whether the batter knew that or not, but Kevvy certainly wasn't backing down anyway.   Q.  That's two wins this campaign now.  How high is the confidence among the team that you guys can push South Africa all the way next game and possibly after that, go into the next round?  GARY WILSON: Yeah, well, we're two from two, so that's all we can ask at this stage of the competition.  Obviously today was a little bit closer than we would have liked, but like I say, we've got four points, and that's all we can ask for right now.   Q.  It was very contrasting victories.  Do you think that the long gap in between the matches hurt you guys a little bit?  GARY WILSON: No, I don't think so.  Actually I think we had really good preparation coming into this game.  I think it was good for us that we had a little break after the West Indies game because we built this up for four years now considering the lack of cricket we have had in those four years, nine games against topeight nations.  We knew the West Indies game was going to be a really important one, and it was nice to have that little break just after that and then get things moving again for this UAE game.   Q.  Did you feel like you lost a little bit of momentum maybe?  GARY WILSON: No, no, I didn't.  As I said, I think we prepared really well.  Obviously with the cyclone that was around, the rain sort of hurt our preparations a little bit, but with the facilities at the National Cricket Center we were able to get a lot of skillbased work done up there.  Yeah, look, in my opinion I don't think the nineday stint hurt us.   Q.  And just about the toss, obviously, sending them in, what was your thinking there, and then also obviously in the second innings found the ball moved around a little bit more?  GARY WILSON: Well, it was a tossup, wasn't it, at the start.  We weren't 100 percent sure whether to bat or bowl.  I think we went with what we've been doing over the last number of years, and we know that if we restrict the team that we've got a hell of a chance of chasing the total down.  I don't think the toss made a huge difference to be perfectly honest.  I think the team that played the better cricket won in the end, albeit a little closer than we would have liked.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT