FAMILY CIRCLE CUP
March 29, 1995
Ruxandra Dragomir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  In the first set Arantxa seemed sort of listless, she seemed to be sort of be not focused, not concentrating, did you sense she woke up in the second set?  Did it become more difficult or did your level drop a little bit?

RUXANDRA DRAGOMIR: Well, first of all I think my level dropped a little bit, and then she get this opportunity to come to the net and it was a little difficult for me when she was at the net because my passing wasn't that good today so...


Q.  Do you think that was the key in the match that she was able to get to the net?

RUXANDRA DRAGOMIR: Well, probably I didn't have enough guts today just to go for the shots.  I was waiting too much to see what is she going to do, whether she is missing or stay in the match and she stayed.


Q.  Have you played her before?

RUXANDRA DRAGOMIR: Yes, I did.  I played her two times.  First time I played in her in French Open in '93.  It was my first Grand Slam.  I played her fourth round, and I was a little scared and I was a little scared.  I thought she was going to kill her me with her strokes but well, she didn't.  I missed a lot so I lost with 6-1, 6-Love but I knew that I can do better. And second time I play her in Amelia last year and I also lost 6-1, 6-2 but that game was still very different then.  I had a lot of advantage to win that game but I just didn't take all that advantage so I lost 6-2, 6-1.


Q.  In the follow-up when you beat her in this set, did you get a bit too confident or did you realize you --

RUXANDRA DRAGOMIR: Well, I had a feeling in the second set when I was 1-Love up at 40-15 on my serve, I had a feeling that it's almost over -- not almost but I felt that it's -- she's mine, you know, I can do whatever.  But then I missed a few shots and then maybe it was a bad call.  I mean, all the time when you play you think everything -- all the bad calls they are against you, but maybe it wasn't a bad call but, you know, in my mind it's still that it was a bad call.  And I lost that game and she just -- I think she played a little harder.  She started playing a little harder and deeper and, you know, maybe it was a moment that I didn't know where to play her anymore.  She was starting coming to the net.


Q.  In that third game when you questioned the call --

RUXANDRA DRAGOMIR: Yeah.


Q.  -- did you think the umpire --

RUXANDRA DRAGOMIR: What, the second set?


Q.  Yeah.  Did you think the umpire was pointing to a different spot on the court?

RUXANDRA DRAGOMIR: I can't remember.  Which one, on the serve?


Q.  Yeah.

RUXANDRA DRAGOMIR: Well, she went to the  right mark but now I can't say that the ball was that far out but it doesn't matter anymore.  I don't know -- I don't want to say anything against the umpire, but what I think it's they just go for the top players. And I had the feeling today that they just go for the top players because I had three very, very bad calls. So maybe I could have won the match if, you know, she wasn't that, you know -- but maybe I'm wrong, and I hope I'm wrong but. . .


Q.  Do you feel like you lost a little concentration after that?

RUXANDRA DRAGOMIR: Yes, I did, I lost a lot of concentration because I lost the set 6-1 so instead of 2-1 for me it was 2-1 down and, you know...


Q.  Earlier in the match you stopped playing at a point where you felt the ball was out, and the official didn't come out and look at the ball?

RUXANDRA DRAGOMIR: Yeah. I was amazed.  I was surprised.  I mean, I stopped playing.  I just hit the ball and then I quit and when you do this, I mean normally I think she has to come at least to check the mark.


Q.  What did she say?

RUXANDRA DRAGOMIR: She said the ball was good and you kept on playing and I said I didn't.  I mean, I just hit the ball and then I quit and the ball was coming in the same place where I was.  I could have hit the other one, but.  I just went for the mark and she just --


Q.  Do you think if it was Arantxa that it would have been different, that they would have come and looked at the ball?

RUXANDRA DRAGOMIR: I think so.  As I said, I think they -- you know, they don't help -- but maybe they help a little bit the top players because maybe they want them to be in the tournament and not to lose first round or second round.  As I said, I hope I'm wrong, I hope.


Q.  Even at that, you seemed to have the edge again early in the third set when you broke and went ahead?

RUXANDRA DRAGOMIR: Yeah, well, I was 3-1 up. I don't even know what happened.  Maybe I have to think it over so -- yeah, well --


Q.  She broke you right back.  Instead of being 4-1 it was 3-2.

RUXANDRA DRAGOMIR: Yeah, but it was a long game, wasn't it.


Q.  Yes.  Yeah.

RUXANDRA DRAGOMIR: It was a long game.  Yeah, if I would have win that game 4-1 you never know, maybe I could have win.


Q.  Late in the match you seemed to be hitting the ball higher and she was able to sneak in before you recognized that she was coming in and pick off a few shots --

RUXANDRA DRAGOMIR: What I had to do today was just to try to beat her with her own game, you know, because she doesn't hit hard, only if you hit hard because I know that.  I play her two times, so every time I played her I tried to hit very hard and the ball was coming even harder.  And now I just try to put the ball in, you know, high ball with a lot of spin.  And I knew her forehand didn't work.  You know, her forehand is not very good when you play high ball, so that's what I was trying to do. 


Q.  Was the wind a factor?

RUXANDRA DRAGOMIR: The wind?


Q.  Yes.

RUXANDRA DRAGOMIR: Probably, yeah, because when I was against the wind she was coming a lot to the net, and then all the time I had to hit my backhand very high.  But if I was hitting it slice -- my slice was too short and she could come easy.


Q.  She's No. 1.  Would you say this is one of the better matches you've played this season?

RUXANDRA DRAGOMIR: Yes.  Yes, against a No. 1 player I can say it was a good match, but now I am still just a player, I'm not a great player.  So I just played a good match and that's it.


Q.  What is the best win you've had?  Who's the best player you've beaten in your career?

RUXANDRA DRAGOMIR: I beat in the French Open I beat Date, second round, she was top 20, she wasn't top 10.  And last year also at French Open I beat Maleeva, Maggie Maleeva and that's it.  I didn't play with top players so much.  I only played Arantxa two times and I never played Steffi or Gabi or -- no.


Q.  Will we be seeing you more though in the near future?

RUXANDRA DRAGOMIR: Yeah, I hope so.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT