MLB WORLD SERIES: NATIONALS VS ASTROS
October 25, 2019
Patrick Corbin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I don't know if you feel the strain of the extra workload with the relief appearances or you're in such a zone in the playoffs that you'll worry about that later?
PATRICK CORBIN: This time worked out pretty well for us being able to throw Game 1 and then having three full days off. Being available for 2 but kind of worked out great not being able to get in there. I didn't throw at all. So I was able to do my same routine, everything that I would have done. A little ways from my last start, too.
Everything feels great, ready to go.
Q. Understanding that you're still in the moment here, do you anticipate adjusting your offseason throwing program just to account for all this extra work?
PATRICK CORBIN: Yeah, I guess I haven't really thought about it too much. But I'm sure I'll probably push it back a little bit.
Q. How has Dave helped players relax and try to keep the pressure off throughout all this? Have you noticed any change in his demeanor at all since he came back from the heart procedure?
PATRICK CORBIN: I feel like he's been the same guy for us all year. A leader for us. Somebody who really has trust in his players. And we truly believe that.
Beginning of the season when things weren't going right, he didn't panic, he didn't do anything differently. We just continued to try to get better every day. And pretty much the same thing now. I feel like everyone is relaxed and even at this highest level of...
Q. (No microphone.)
PATRICK CORBIN: I don't know, he's just kind of himself, really. Every day is the same. And that's how I think we all treat it here, we try to, at least. He doesn't panic. He doesn't make us do more or less. He just tries to put us in the best position to do our job well.
Q. Over the weekend the National Symphony Orchestra at the Kennedy Center played the Baby Shark song. You see it in the stands, you guys do it on the bases. What has that done for the team to have that type of gimmick, for lack of a better word?
PATRICK CORBIN: It's blown up pretty big. Everyone seems to be doing it. People are wearing shark outfits. It's like Halloween out there. It's great.
I've gotten to play with Parra before, and having him back here I knew he'd be an energy boost and somebody that would have fun. You could see what he's doing with other guys on the team who maybe aren't so -- with Stras, giving him those hugs and everything else he does for him. Just brings the energy to this team. He's great to have.
Q. How difficult was it for you not to get something done with the Yankees and could you ever have thought that it would turn out like this coming here?
PATRICK CORBIN: I honestly haven't thought too much about it. No regrets. I obviously loved every second here. I always tell everybody I feel like I've been here longer, just such a great clubhouse, great people to be around every day. Really enjoy it here.
The big reason was to come here and make it to the World Series and win a World Series. I knew the guys in here were capable of doing it. It's a great team and we've just put things together really well.
Q. I know you try and treat all your starts the same, every day the same, but you're going to start the World Series game tomorrow. Is it possible to still be that way or is it any different the way you're thinking about it, waking up tomorrow?
PATRICK CORBIN: These are games I want to pitch in. I'm really looking forward to the opportunity to go out there and help us win a ball game. This is what you prepare for all offseason, to pitch in these games and just to have the opportunity to go out there, give it my best.
I'm looking forward to it. I'm going to try to keep everything the same. I'm sure I'll be excited. But I'm really looking forward to it.
Q. When you and Zack were together in Arizona, is there one thing that he taught you or you take away to this day that has helped you become the pitcher you are?
PATRICK CORBIN: Yeah, Zack's preparation is probably the best in the game. There's a couple of guys here, too, as well, with Max and Stras and Aníbal, those guys as well.
That's the big thing with some of these older pitchers, Zack doesn't throw as hard as he did when he first came up, but he knows how it to pitch. I think that's huge being able to learn myself how to do things better out there.
Q. Have you been able to talk to him since the World Series started?
PATRICK CORBIN: Yeah, I talked to him a little bit in Houston. A lot of guys who I've played with, we've gone through a couple of levels here and being able to play against somebody else, it's great.
Q. This starting rotation, how much do you guys push one another? How healthy is that? And what does it say about the success you've had coming down the stretch and especially in this postseason?
PATRICK CORBIN: Yeah, it's great. We all root for each other. I feel like that's something that's not always easy. Guys might seem like it but we really do. We try to help each other, when we're pitching or when we're not pitching. And I think it's pretty special to be on a team that does stuff like that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT