NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: NATIONALS VS CARDINALS
October 14, 2019
Patrick Corbin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Patrick, how have you enjoyed relieving more than you've started so far in postseason play?  
PATRICK CORBIN: Just kind of happened to work out like that. Just been available. I mean, Game 5 in L.A. was do or die, so just had an opportunity to be in the bullpen, and the other day, same thing. Had a scheduled bullpen that day and just kind of worked out where I was able to face one guy.   
 Q.  Kind of going off that, how do you spend your time when you're in the bullpen? Like not redoing your routine to kind of get ready to come in, but what's it like watching the game out there? Are you talking to the other relievers? Like what are you doing out there?  
PATRICK CORBIN: Yeah, I've been just trying to stay loose in the clubhouse until later in the game. So when I do head down there, it's just kind of warmed up. If they need me, I'm there. If not, which is fine. Just at this point, those innings are -- like I said, I just want to be available if they want me.   
 Q.  You've been in three different pens now -- L.A., St. Louis, and here. Which one do you like best, and what do you like about warming up in the pen?  
PATRICK CORBIN: I'm not sure. The other day, just throwing two pitches, I mean, that was kind of fun. Not used to that workload. The next day, you wake up, you feel great. So I'd say that was a plus. The Dodgers, obviously, have more lefties than these guys do. So I knew in that series it might be an opportunity for me to face some of those guys. Yeah, I'm looking forward to tomorrow, getting back to starting.   
 Q.  Patrick, what is the difference between -- as far as intensity, as far as throwing in the bullpen, and then actually throwing your bullpen session in a competitive game?  
PATRICK CORBIN: Yeah, you try to have your bullpens be as close to game-like if you can. When you're on that game mound, obviously, the intensity goes up, and the effort level goes up. I think just facing that one batter wasn't too much off of what I would have done that day and what I did to warm up. So then had the two days off and will be fresh tomorrow.   
 Q.  Because you only threw two pitches in that game, did you have to go throw some more after? Because that was your throw day. Did you almost need to do more to get ready for this start?  
PATRICK CORBIN: No, because I pretty much threw my normal bullpen before, and I knew I had one-hitter. Kind of just did my same routine that I normally would have done. If I didn't get in that game, would have just done pretty much that same routine, except facing the one batter after the game.   
 Q.  Patrick, you've made 30-plus starts this year. You've appeared a lot in the postseason. What kind of things are you doing, if at all, differently, to keep your arm fresh? Does it change in October? How do you get to the finish line here?  
PATRICK CORBIN: I feel great at this time. Been lucky to stay healthy this whole season and just -- you just kind of continue to do what you've done, be smart about things. I think at this point in the season you're not lifting as heavy as you would and maybe backing down on some running and things like that.   
But pretty much the same routine. Body feels great. If you can't get up for these games, then yeah.   
 Q.  Patrick, going back to signing here, obviously, the sixth year is a big deal, but you're also analyzing fitting into a rotation and looking at your team. Can you go back to that time and what you thought about joining Max and Stephen and fitting into a team that had aspirations like this?  
PATRICK CORBIN: I remember sitting in this room with those guys right up here in front, and that was definitely a big reason to be part of a rotation like that. And Aníbal has been amazing all year for us, as well. When you have starting pitchers that can go out there and pitch deep in a ball game, keep us close with the offense that we do have with some veterans and some young guys, it seemed like a good fit, a team that wanted to win and had the guys here to win.   
Obviously, beginning of the season wasn't the way we wanted it to go, but we had a feeling in here that things would turn around at some point. There's too many good players in this clubhouse to not play well.   
 Q.  Patrick, you've said all year that you wanted to come to a place that had a chance to play in October. I was just wondering, over the course of the season, how much did you pick up specifically from Max and Stras just about process or just about intangibles or anything like that? And what do you think you've helped them with during the season?  
PATRICK CORBIN: It's always great to have other guys in the rotation who have done it, who have been at this level for a long time. I was able to have Zack Greinke, learned a lot from him in Arizona, and come here and have Max and Stras, guys who have done it. I think what's good is we all try to help each other. When someone's out there pitching, we're all on the bench talking, going over the other team's lineup, maybe what they see, what they don't see. That's what's been so great, being able to discuss what we think, what we don't think.   
Obviously, Max, everyone knows how intense he is, and a lot of things do work for him, and some people they might not work for. So you just kind of take what you think will help and go from there.   
 Q.  Patrick, you mentioned there's so much talent in this room. You knew it was going to turn. When did you sense the tide was turning? Were there moments during the season that you sensed, okay, we're coming around here?  
PATRICK CORBIN: Yeah, you know you hate to say injuries, but we did have some injuries to begin the season. With Trea down, Rendon, and Soto, we had three big time hitters there. When guys did get back into the lineup, guys were playing their normal positions. I don't think anyone here changed anything. We just kind of got our guys back. You give credit to Davey never panicking, really never changing anything. We didn't do more. We didn't do less. We just continued to do what we did in Spring Training and just built off it.   
You look at the guys in here, they've done it. They've won a lot of games. We knew it was just going to be a matter of time.   
 Q.  You had a very strong game against the Cardinals about a month ago in St. Louis. What can you take from that into tomorrow? Also, you've seen Hudson a couple times from the dugout anyway. What are your thoughts on him this year?  
PATRICK CORBIN: Yeah, we just played them a month or so ago. I'll just try to go over film and go over what I did do well and what I didn't do well. At this point, everyone kind of knows what I've done. I just need to go out there and execute those pitches. This is a team, they're a veteran lineup. They're going to make you work, throw pitches, throw strikes. You just can't make a mistake to these guys.   
Their pitching over there, the guy going tonight and tomorrow, some young arms that have gotten them to this point. There's a reason they're there. I know we're up 2-0, but we've got to treat this game like any other game and try to win tonight.   
 Q.  Max and Aníbal had two amazing games from the mound. How do you prepare yourself mentally to perhaps duplicate or get close to that level?  
PATRICK CORBIN: Yeah, for both of them, them giving up one hit was pretty impressive on the road. Those were two huge games for us to go out there, have our starters go deep in both those games, save the bullpen a little bit. It's going to be huge going forward. I mean, that lineup over there is a good lineup, and for them to do that is pretty impressive.   
You don't expect them to get shut out all the time or held to one run. We just have to make sure that myself and Stras tonight are on our game and go out there and compete and see what happens.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT