NL DIVISION SERIES: NATIONALS VS DODGERS
October 2, 2019
Patrick Corbin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Is this the biggest game you've ever pitched in your life and if so, what is the previous biggest one?
PATRICK CORBIN: I don't know. I've never pitched in the playoffs. But that was a big reason why I wanted to come here, to have an opportunity to pitch in games like this, big games. I'm excited for the opportunity to go out there. And Dodgers have had a great season and so have we, so this should be a fun series.
Q. Facing the Dodgers so much from your time in the division, is that going to give you some kind of an edge, them some kind of an edge tomorrow, or does that not really matter?
PATRICK CORBIN: Yeah, I pitched here quite a bit in my time in Arizona. They know me, I know them. So it's just going out there, executing my pitches, coming up with a good game plan. And I'm not trying to fool them. They know what I have. And just going to go out there, treat it like any other start and just be myself.
Q. I think you were slated to start Game 4 of that 2017 LDS with the D-Backs. What do you remember about that conversation, the day before that possible start, and what you remember about seeing them celebrate, when you didn't get a chance to pitch?
PATRICK CORBIN: Yeah, that was, it kind of stunk not being able to pitch. Same thing, I was in the bullpen for the Wild Card game. We won that. And then I had to come here and got swept by them. So I'm excited this time. I'm going to get the ball and get to go out there and pitch. But I'm going to just treat it like any other start, go out there, compete, be myself and let the defense play behind me, things like that.
Q. Last night was obviously pretty emotional for all of you guys. Was it something that -- how long do you let yourself celebrate that and carry over before you turn your mindset to, we now have a five-game series we need to win?
PATRICK CORBIN: I think guys were relieved. In one game anything can happen. We have been saying that for awhile. Last night didn't look like it was going our way. Guys kept battling, kept us in the game. It was just a huge victory for us to get to this, to have a five-game series is something that we have wanted. So, yeah, last night was exciting. It's behind us now and we're looking forward to playing the Dodgers and having an opportunity to play multiple games.
Q. Was there a part of you that was getting ready mentally to possibly pitch in last night's game?
PATRICK CORBIN: Yeah, we were all down there. I tried staying loose all game. Stras was doing the same thing, as well as the other guys in the bullpen. And, I mean, it was pretty easy to stay loose with the crowd that we did have there, the excitement in the ballpark, just, that's a fun game if you come out on top. Just a lot of excitement there and fans enjoyed it, we did. And long trip here, but guys will get some rest tonight and be ready to go tomorrow.
Q. The manager was just in here saying he thinks that Anthony Rendon should win a Gold Glove. You've played with a lot of third basemen. What's your impression of him in the field and how does he make your job easier?
PATRICK CORBIN: Yeah, he's a special player. He has my MVP vote if I had one. All season long just how consistent he is, no ups and downs. You can never tell if he's struggling. He's as well prepared as anybody in the game. Obviously, offensively, he's been amazing for us, but defensively he makes all the plays. He lays out for balls, turns double plays, gets rid of the ball quick. And I mean that's been a big thing with our whole staff defensively, not only him, Robles in center field, Soto as well, a bunch of guys just playing great defense behind us and it makes it easier on us.
Q. Both you guys and the Dodgers rely on starting pitching to carry the heavy workload for their outs. Curious what your thoughts, having two teams that matchup that still rely on starters as much as they do and kind of it's not the way that the game kind of seems to be going with most teams.
PATRICK CORBIN: I think we match up well with them. Obviously, their rotation has had a great season and ours as well. Like you said, a lot of these games, the bullpens, the openers, things like that have happened. But if you have good starting pitching that can go out there, just keep your team in the ball game, anything can happen. Last night Max did a great job keeping us in the game. Only giving up three, and then Stras came in and the offense came back. But that's really what you're trying to do. If we're in these games, our offense is good enough to put up a lot of runs. So does the Dodgers lineup, they're as tough as anybody in the game, so it could come down to starting pitching, but there's going to be runs scored in this series, you just try to minimize damage.
Q. Do you personally enjoy matching up against another starter or do you kind of not even think about that you're focused on just the lineup?
PATRICK CORBIN: Maybe I'll look at how he hits, really, that's kind of it. Some of these pitchers can swing the bat pretty well. Other than that you just try to go out there, put up as many zeros, make quality pitches. With the Dodgers these guys have different lineups, lefties, righties, so be curious to see what they throw out tomorrow. We'll go from there.
Q. The last 12 months for you have been an interesting year for you. You had some high highs, marriage, contracts and some lows as well. What's it been like for you?
PATRICK CORBIN: It's been exciting. Getting married, finding a new home for awhile, joining a new team, a lot of new faces, it's been exciting. But I couldn't think of a better way for this year to go. Being on a great team, we really enjoy spending time with each other and just looking forward to keeping this going as long as we can.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT