ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 30, 2016
Brian Stuard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You've been bogey-free through two rounds.  How have you been about able it put together such a solid start?  
BRIAN STUARD: I think I've just been playing pretty solid off the tee, hitting it in play, and then my misses are in good spots and my chipping and pitching has been well.   
 Q.  Describe for fans at home what it's like to ride a hot putter where seemingly everything that you had to make you've been able to make so far.  
BRIAN STUARD: It's definitely nice to be able to think you can make them.  For whatever reason, I feel like I'm seeing the lines well and just putting a good stroke on it and my speed seems to be there.   
 Q.  Was this something that you noticed earlier in the week or at what point did you start feeling the flow with your putter?  
BRIAN STUARD: I think it was more last week I started feeling really good about it.  Luckily, it's carried over to this week.   
 Q.  You held a 36-hole lead once before in your career, obviously there's still the second round to be fully completed, but what can you draw on from that experience at the Sony for the next couple days?  
BRIAN STUARD: Just the experience of it.  I think I just got to stay patient, stay in the moment, and just keep going.   
 Q.  Does your mentality change at all, with possible weather forecast later today and Sunday, who knows how many holes this tournament can wind up being?  
BRIAN STUARD: Not really, I think you just got to go out and play it one shot at a time and whatever happens, happens.   
 Q.  You talk about the putter earlier, what was the impetus to change?  Were you struggling in Texas and just how did that come about?  
BRIAN STUARD: I just was having a hard time feeling like I was getting lined up right.  I just picked this one up last week and it felt like I could just set it down and it was right where I was looking.  So, that's a nice feeling.   
 Q.  So now you complete the second round, you're going to have a little bit of a wait until you start the third round, probably around 2 o'clock I'm guessing.  What are you going to do in the meantime?  
BRIAN STUARD: Just hang out, get a little bite to eat and just relax and nothing really.   
 Q.  We got a little ways to go, you never won on TOUR, you got a couple of close calls at Mexico, what would it mean to your career, obviously, to win this event?  
BRIAN STUARD: Obviously, it would be great.  There's a long ways to go, so just kind of focusing on the next shot and see what happens.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT