TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 26, 2015
Brian Stuard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  DOUG MILNE: Brian Stuard, thanks for joining us for a few minutes after a great start.  You're through 36 holes, 64-67, sitting at 9-under heading into the weekend.  In good position.  Comments on the first two rounds and how you're feeling and what you're looking forward to for the weekend?BRIAN STUARD: Yeah, I feel like I've been playing okay just not scoring the last few tournaments, so it's nice to get a couple of good rounds where I felt like I scored well.Q. What was it about the back nine for you?BRIAN STUARD: Seems like the front nine I was just kind of a little stagnant.  Had a couple chances, missed them, and then I made a good putt on No. 10 to get the momentum going.  It seemed like I was able to put myself into a couple good spots to make a couple up-and-downs for birdie on 13 and 15, I guess.  So that was just making a couple putts, I guess.Q. You said that you weren't playing that well or not playing as good as you'd like to coming in.  Does a place like this, can it bring the best out of you in a tournament like this?BRIAN STUARD: I don't know, maybe so.  I guess it feels like if you get into a good rhythm here then there are some birdie chances for you out there.  Like I said, I guess I feel like I was playing okay, just not quite getting the scores that I thought I should.  Then these first two days it seems like I've been putting well.  I've putted well the first two days, so that was the key.Q. You're one of several golfers who get within a shot and then go back a little bit.  Do you look at the scoreboard and know where Bubba was?  Does that affect your play on the last few holes at all?BRIAN STUARD: No, not really.  I saw that he finished 11, probably somewhere on my first nine today.  So that was kind of just -- you kind of always knew that was going to be leading probably.  But, no, not really.  I think, like I said, I didn't play very good in the front.  So on the back I was just trying to get a few to shoot a good round, so didn't really think about it too much.Q. A lot of guys have commented on the greens and how smooth they're rolling.  How good are they out there?BRIAN STUARD: Yeah, it seems like if you hit it on the line, they're going to go in.  That's always a nice feeling.Q. How important was your last putt in terms of what your mindset is for the last weekend?BRIAN STUARD: Yeah, I kind of made a mess of 18, and then to make that 15-footer or 18-footer, whatever it was, for par, that was kind of a nice momentum keeper, I guess, going into the weekend.Q. (Indiscernible)?BRIAN STUARD: I think I've just got to stay patient.  I feel like yesterday I didn't drive it quite as well as I normally do and was able to shoot a good score.  And today I felt like I drove it better.  I feel like if I keep driving the fairway, I'll be all right.Q. What was your expectation coming into this tournament?  You said you haven't been playing as well as you wanted to.  What did you hope to get out of this?BRIAN STUARD: Just try to get a little momentum going for the last eight tournaments or so.  I think I'm 135 on the FedExCup list right now, so it's just kind of hopefully find something in the next few weeks and move myself up.Q. Do you feel like anything (No microphone)?BRIAN STUARD: No, not really.  I think it fits me pretty well because it's not really a long course, I guess.  It seems to be a fun course to play.  Especially the back nine, there are a lot of risk-reward holes, which, like I said, if you get into rhythm then you can make some birdies which is nice.DOUG MILNE: Best of luck this weekend, and we hope to see you back over the weekend.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT