OHL CLASSIC AT MAYAKOBA
November 15, 2013
Brian Stuard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Kind of picked up where you left off yesterday.   Two holes left this morning.   Picked up a birdie to get to 6‑under. 
BRIAN STUARD:   Yeah, I made a good save on 16.   I had to make a long two‑putt, and made the second one from 10 feet.   That kind of kept the momentum going, I guess.

Q.   All in all got to be happy with where you're at. 
BRIAN STUARD:   Yeah, for sure.   It was a long first round, but like you said, got to be happy where I am at.

Q.   Probably don't know when you're going to tee off this afternoon, or if you will. 
BRIAN STUARD:   Yeah, I don't know.   Hopefully don't get any rain or thunderstorms so we can kind of get back on track a little bit.

Q.   What are you going to do?   Just wait and see?
BRIAN STUARD:   Yeah.

Q.   Kind of take me through each of the birdies. 
BRIAN STUARD:   Yeah, first one was on the short par‑3, the 4th hole.   I hit it, I don't know, 8 feet.   Made a nice putt there.
Next one was par 5.   Next hole hit kind of two shots up around the green then made a nice pitch to just about a foot. 
Then the next one I hit a wedge into like 6 feet on 6. 
Then 8 I made maybe like a 20‑footer for birdie. 
What else? 
11 hit a wedge to a couple feet. 
Par‑5 I hit two shots up around the green, and then made a nice pitch to couple feet. 
Is that it until 18? 

Q.   18?
BRIAN STUARD:   Nice 6‑iron it 10, 12 feet and was bale to make that. 

Q.   Over the course of all the starts and stops, what was going the best for you?
BRIAN STUARD:   You know, I think‑‑ I don't know.   I did everything pretty good.   Made a couple nice putts to keep the momentum going, I guess.
Putted well.   Pitching and chipping was pretty good.   Hit some good iron shots.   I don't know, just played pretty solid.

Q.   This course, is it a course that kind of fits your eye?
BRIAN STUARD:   Yeah, I played well here in 2010, first time here.   I don't know, kind of kept the string going.   Hopefully I can keep it going. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT