ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 28, 2017
Brian Stuard
Chris Stroud
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Brian, what about that eagle to finish?  Your partner has come off strong, hasn't he?
BRIAN STUARD: Yeah, he hit a great shot in there and then made the putt.  That was nice.
Q. This combination, you were talking about it.  You've got some history together as friends, as well, and you're delivering out on the course.  What's been the secret?
CHRIS STROUD: You know, it's funny, today we were playing, I was talking to my caddie, I said, Brian and I are a really strong team.  We don't make a lot of mistakes.  We play very similar games, and today it just so happened that his great shots were on holes that we needed it, and my great shots were on holes where we needed it.  We ham and egged really nicely.  He hit an incredible shot on 17, a couple other shots, and then I hit a great shot on 18, so it worked out great.
Q. Going from alternate-shot to better ball, you played well in both.  Is there anything that you think you're favorable than the other, or is it just you're playing well so keep it rolling?
BRIAN STUARD: Well, obviously today was a lot less pressure, I think.  You can kind of free wheel it a little bit, whereas alternate-shot you kind of have to pay attention to what you're doing.  But we played well yesterday.  We played well today, so we're looking forward to the weekend.
Q. Bottom line is at the moment only three back going into the weekend, in a really strong position.  The golf course, the way you're playing, is everything setting up for a special weekend for you guys?
CHRIS STROUD: It's great.  We hope so.  Like I said, I'm just going to keep riding the champ here.  Everything is going well.  We're not going to change a thing.  Really happy with it.  We fed off each other today.  It played a lot harder today with the wind, and even with best ball it was difficult.  Like he said, it's nice to be able to free wheel it a little bit on best ball, but alternate-shot is going to be interesting tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT