WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
July 2, 2016
Brian Stuard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Brian, 67, great round.  How important was it, well over 70 percent of your fairways today keeping it in the short grass?
BRIAN STUARD: Yeah, that's what I've been doing all three days really.  That's really important for me to be able to kind of maybe attack a couple pins and then it's easier to hit the green from the fairway, obviously.  But that's been key.
Q. Two great bounce-back birdies today in your round, one very early.  How important were those for you even psychologically today?
BRIAN STUARD: Yeah, I three-putted one, and then to make birdie on two, it was kind of to right the ship, I guess.  Actually made a really good two-putt for birdie on 2 that kind of got the day going, I guess.
Q. On 16 would you ever consider going for it from the bunker?  It was a great par either way.
BRIAN STUARD: Yeah, it was close.  I just didn't think my lie was quite good enough.  It just wasn't worth the risk.
Q. What do we work on tonight?  What needs to get better tomorrow, if anything?
BRIAN STUARD: Yeah, I think just kind of staying patient.  I'm going to try to keep hitting the fairways.  That's key for me.  My putting has gotten better each day, I think, so just keep doing what I'm doing.
Q. What has this experience at Firestone been like for you this week?
BRIAN STUARD: It's been awesome.  I love the golf course.  You don't play too many that are kind of tree-lined like this, and I think it really fits my game.  It's kind of nice it being a Midwest golf course, too.  It's been great.
Q. After winning at Zurich, you kind of come in here under the radar.  Do you have a different perspective from the other players now that you're a winner on the TOUR?
BRIAN STUARD: You know, maybe a little bit.  I played great in Zurich and then I really haven't played that great.  I've been playing okay, just not scoring very well, and then this week kind of -- it's kind of turning around just a little bit, so hopefully we can keep going.
Q. Does this whet your appetite to play in some of these events?
BRIAN STUARD: Yeah, it's pretty fun.  You can't beat this.  Getting to play with Adam Scott today was awesome.  It's been a lot of fun.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT