THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 17, 2014
John Singleton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JOHN SINGLETON: I made a few bad swings.  Made a few bad putts, as well.  But that happens.  Just got to go and sort it out tomorrow and play better.Q. (Inaudible.)JOHN SINGLETON: Yes, it's The Open, isn't it?  And it's home as well.  So it's something special and I can keep that one with me for the rest of my life.Q. (Inaudible.)JOHN SINGLETON: No, nobody has been insulting but you guys (laughing). Friends-wise?  Friends in the local?  My fiancée came out, as well, which is nice, father-in-law, mother-in-law, dad.Q. (Inaudible.)JOHN SINGLETON: So many faces.  Yeah, that's today.  They shut down today to come and watch me.  So obviously he's not going to speak to me.Q. (Inaudible.)JOHN SINGLETON: Probably like the first eight holes and then it just got crazy.  I was in grass this high, so I didn't really see any of them.  To see all those guys, just to make the effort to come see me, it's fantastic.Q. (Inaudible.)JOHN SINGLETON: They're me mates.  I spent a lot of me time with them.  They're there to support me.  I'm not some Big Time Charley who's going to win.  Obviously I want to win, but I'm just there to enjoy myself and soak it all up.  And they came out to enjoy it with me.  And have a chat with them and have a little bit of banter.Q. (Inaudible.)JOHN SINGLETON: No, he really didn't put me down.  He just told me to put on some sun cream.  I'm playing The Open (indiscernible).  Did he cap it as well?  Burned to a crisp.Q. (Inaudible.)JOHN SINGLETON: Yeah, why not?  It's fantastic.  To do that and to hear people shout loud, it's brilliant.  If it had gone south or really wrong -- it's probably one of the best times of my life.  Obviously walking down 18 was probably just as good. So, yeah, you know, I mean, I just want to enjoy it.  I might never get the chance again.  Hopefully I can use this as experience to go forward and pick up the crowd a bit.  It makes you feel good.  It makes you feel proud.Q. (Inaudible.)JOHN SINGLETON: I'd be on break or something like that.  Or I'd be scabbing syringe on me phone somewhere.Q. (Inaudible.)JOHN SINGLETON: Yeah, because somebody sneezed.  I started to back off.  Of course I was nervous. No, no, no, I don't know, I just went blank, really.  Obviously I was just more focused on the unbelievably shaky hands.  I was just trying to control that and just hit it down the middle would be great.  It's probably the best shot I've ever hit under pressure (laughing).Q. (Inaudible.)JOHN SINGLETON: No, I didn't know that.  I'll get me a picture of the scoreboard and I'll keep that with me for the rest of my life, as well.Q. (Inaudible.)JOHN SINGLETON: Those guys were super supportive, as well.  Obviously on the first tee, you know, Marc said to me, like the hairs on the back of his neck stood up.  It gave him a good buzz, as well.  And Peter was that way, as well.  He was just letting it happen.  For those guys, they're here to do well.  And for them to enjoy it, it means a lot to me, as well.Q. (Inaudible.)JOHN SINGLETON: I don't know.  I don't know what the rest of my life is going to hold after tomorrow.  I play well, I make the cut and who knows.  If I don't play well and I don't make the cut, who knows.  I just don't know.  Just go and enjoy it and not think about what could happen or what will happen.Q. (Inaudible.)JOHN SINGLETON: Yes, boss paid for all of them.  I have no idea, maybe 14, something like that.Q. What's his name?JOHN SINGLETON: Jonathan Camp, I think.  Yeah, yeah, he's a great one.  I had a beer with him last night just to say thank you.  And obviously he was really supportive, as well.  And basically said to me, I don't think I've ever wanted someone not to come back to work on a Monday, which is really nice of him.  So hopefully I won't go back to work.Q. (Inaudible.)JOHN SINGLETON: It doesn't mean anything to me.  It comes and goes just as fast, doesn't it?  If I play terrible tomorrow, I probably won't see you again.  Normal life is normal life, isn't it?  You've still got to go and have money, whether you're playing golf or working in a factory, who knows.Q. (Inaudible.)JOHN SINGLETON: AEV.  It's production, makes paints and stuff.  Paints and varnishes and things like that.Q. (Inaudible.)JOHN SINGLETON: I'm going to do a little bit of putting.  Certainly gonna have a few, to say the least.  Absolutely.  Got the news Saturday night, great news.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT