U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2019
Alex Smalley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Coming off a 71 on No. 2.  Congrats; great score; one of the best of the day.  How did you do it?
ALEX SMALLEY: Well, it was really windy starting off.  I've played here quite a bit growing up pretty close by.  Getting close to 40 rounds on No. 2, so I know the course pretty well and know where to miss it.
Shot under par a few times out here, so I knew I could do it.  Just was a matter of doing it today.  Had it going.  I started on 11, and turned -- after 18 I was 1-under, which was great, because 15 through 18 is a really tough stretch of holes.
So I got off to a good start and then made a couple bad swings from the fairway with a 9-iron, and it cost me three shots.  So it kind of stings, but it was nice to make the putt on the last to have somewhat of a chance.
Q. Let's get to the last hole.  Came in the 10th with 6-over.  You saw the cut line at the weather delay.  It was 5-over.  What did you have in your mind going into it?
ALEX SMALLEY: I figured 4 was going to make it.  Figured 4 would probably be a playoff.  Didn't know if it was going to jump to 5 or not.  I figured I had to make the chip shot from the pine straw on 10.  It was close.  Just ran a little bit by.  Made that putt for birdie to give me a little bit of a chance.
It's tough coming back from an hour weather delay without warming up.  It's not bad.
Q. I don't know if you looked, but the projected cut line right now is 6 over, so you're inside right now.
ALEX SMALLEY: It is really?
Q. I'm sure that feels great.
ALEX SMALLEY: Just a waiting game now, I guess.
Q. Yeah, it is.  You'll find out soon enough.  You said you played almost 40 rounds on No. 2.
ALEX SMALLEY: Uh-huh, I have.
Q. If you do make it inside the cut like you're projected right now, where would this round rank for you?
ALEX SMALLEY: Be one of the better ones.  Conditions were pretty difficult wind-wise.  Greens weren't nearly as firm or as fast as I've seen them before.  For the North and South here a couple months ago they were really speedy and really firm.
Struggled a little bit with speed early on just because I'm used to being just a little bit faster, on the faster side.  Yeah, you know, any time you can shoot 71, 70, or break par out here is a pretty good feeling.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT