U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 17, 2016
Alex Smalley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. He pressed you all the way.  You really had to bring something to the table on the last nine.
ALEX SMALLEY: Yeah, yeah, we struggled a little bit today.  It was a grind all the way around.  I think we both struggled a little bit.  Yeah, I mean, it was a hard day.  It was a long day.  I'm glad I got through.
Q. You made the six-footer at 11 to get it all square after he took the lead.  Tell me what you hit in there.
ALEX SMALLEY: I hit pitching wedge in there.  It was a little bit uphill.  I think I had 132 yards, hit pitching wedge.  I thought it was going to come up short, but ended up being good, flew over the bunker and I guess took the hill down to the hole and made the putt.
Q. Good two-putt at 14; you had about 24 feet up that hill?
ALEX SMALLEY: Yeah, that was -- hit it in the trees, I was kind of under the tree, and I had to play a hook around the tree.  That's just what I did, and it hit on the green, rolled out a little bit, and then just had an uphill putt.
Q. 15 was huge because you put the birdie on top of his?
ALEX SMALLEY: I did, yeah.  I knew he was going to make it, so I knew I had to make mine, so when I made mine, that was pretty big.
Q. And then obviously he got into trouble at 16, but 17 the tee shot, what did you hit?
ALEX SMALLEY: It was around 245 I think, 243.  I hit hybrid.  I hit hybrid yesterday.  It was a little long because it was a little downwind.  It was a little into the wind today.  I was just aiming for the middle of the green and it just happened to come down on the pin.  I knew I just needed to hit it on the green.
Q. What were you thinking when he hit the bunker shot on 17?
ALEX SMALLEY: Well, they always say you expect people to make it.  That was a great shot, and then I knew I just had to two-putt.  Glad I got out of there with a par.
Q. You knew you were all even after getting out of stroke play and you were starting at zero again.  Was what happened today what you expected to happen?
ALEX SMALLEY: Yeah, I mean, it's basically another tournament, brand-new tournament.  It's a new day.  You know, seeds don't really matter in match play.  It was nice getting medalist.  It was an honor, but I just had to start right all over again.
Q. Being a USGA champion, does that give you a little more confidence now as you move forward?
ALEX SMALLEY: A little bit, yeah.  I played with Scott earlier this summer at the North Carolina Am, so I'm familiar with him.  So I knew it was going to be a tough day, and it was.  Like I said, I'm just glad I got out of there with the win.  I'm pretty blessed.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT