U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 17, 2016
Alex Smalley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Medalist, you come here, you get the first one done, out of the way.  How do you feel about your day?
ALEX SMALLEY: It was a long day.  Struggled a little bit out there.  It was a little different than the first two stroke play rounds.  I didn't hit the ball as well as I would have liked to, but had some good up-and-downs, some good putts that kind of kept the momentum going.  Had a rough stretch there right after we went back out after the weather delay, and I just kind of had some good holes after that, just kind of hung on from there.
Q. Did you know much about your opponent Scott coming into today?
ALEX SMALLEY: Yeah, I was familiar with Scott Harvey.  We played earlier this summer at the North Carolina Amateur the first two rounds, so I knew he was a really good player.  I knew he was going to be a tough opponent today.  I'm glad I came out with the win.
Q. What do you need to do tomorrow, a double-round day, if you win in the morning you've got to come back and do it again.  What's your mindset going into the day?
ALEX SMALLEY: You've just got to take it one round at a time.  You can't think ahead to the second round if the first match isn't over yet.  I know it's cliché, but you've got to take it one hole at a time, one shot at a time.  You've just got to go in knowing it's going to be a long day, there's going to be some adversity here and there, but you've just got to adapt to the situation and take it from there.
Q. Everything resets in match play, but is there any added pressure being the medalist in this thing?
ALEX SMALLEY: Some might say yes.  It's just golf.  It was an honor winning medalist.  I knew it was going to be tough, especially today playing Scott.  But I don't think there's any extra added pressure.  It's just golf.  You've just got to go out and play.
Q. He's a very experienced accomplished player in USGA match play.  He made a little run at you right before the turn.  How did you stay composed?
ALEX SMALLEY: Yeah, like I said, I struggled a little bit right after the weather delay, and he came at me.  He played pretty well, and then I made a birdie putt on 11 that kept the momentum going, brought it back to all square, then had a couple more good shots, good putts, kept the momentum going, and just kind of hung on from there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT