AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 29, 2004
Fabiola Zuluaga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  English questions for Fabiola, please.  
 
 
Q.  How did that feel out there today?
 
FABIOLA ZULUAGA:  Well, I feel great.  The first three games I was like really nervous.  But then I was just having fun.  I really enjoy playing against Justine in that big stadium.   I really had fun out there.  Feels good.  I didn't win, but I had fun (smiling). 
 
Q.  What do you think makes her No. 1 in the world? 
 
FABIOLA ZULUAGA:  Well, definitely her backhand, especially backhand down the line is her best shot, I think.  And she serve pretty good.  And she's always fighting.  She never give up.  She's running for every ball, and she's always there.  
 
Q.  What will you take out of the experience of these two weeks and playing today? 
 
FABIOLA ZULUAGA:  Well, now, first, that I see that I can go farther with my game.  I can play much better tennis.  I don't know, experience is a good thing to have when you play matches.  Sometimes you're not playing good, but with experience you can do many things.  Maybe I can (inaudible) players that don't have that much experience.  Makes a big difference.  Maybe, I don't know, still thinking, having fun in the court.  So it's good.  
 
Q.  What was the main thing you learned out of these two weeks, out of the tournament?
 
FABIOLA ZULUAGA:  That you have to go out on the court, try to do your game, not to think about the other person.  Just go out there and be aggressive.  That's supposed to be my game.  And I think that's the most important thing.  Also mentally you got to be there.  You got to keep playing and playing.  Many things can happen.  You never know.  
 
Q.  The Colombian spectators, are they from Melbourne?  Did they contact you? 
 
FABIOLA ZULUAGA:  I don't know.  There were a few today.  Or I don't know, because the court was bigger than the other ones I play the matches before.  I didn't feel them that much during this game.  But I don't know any of them.  Just one, we met when we played Fed Cup.  He used to play some tennis with us, but I didn't remember him.  I just knew him.  He was the only one. 
 
Q.  How would you sum up this fortnight?  What were your hopes or ambitions coming into the tournament?
 
FABIOLA ZULUAGA:  What, this tournament?  
 
Q.  Yes. 
 
FABIOLA ZULUAGA:  Hmm, you know, every time I go to a tournament, I want to win it, you know.  It's always maybe in my mind.  I was really happy that I get the seeding.  It was the first time.  I had a tough first match.  I play the girl that beat me the week before, or in Hobart, so it was a tough one.  I just wanted to play and win and win.  Every time I was winning matches, I was -- I wanted to get some more matches to win.  But, you know, when I go to a tournament, I just think about winning the tournament, not to get into any special round, getting into another one.  Just try to win as many matches as I can.  
 
Q.  Obviously, this is the best couple weeks of your life on the tennis court. 
 
FABIOLA ZULUAGA:  Yeah, definitely, definitely.  They've been really good weeks.  Now that I'm finished, I'm tired of being too much time in the same place.  But I really had fun.  I think I have to prepare for this.  Hopefully it's not going to be the first time and the last time.  So I just have to make sure I'm prepared for this.  
 
Q.  When do you head home?
 
FABIOLA ZULUAGA:  I'm leaving tomorrow. 
 
Q.  Back to Bogota?
 
FABIOLA ZULUAGA:  Yeah.  As soon as I finish my shower, I went out asking when was the flight to go home.  I want to go there. 
 
Q.  Are you homesick or something?  Do you want to leave early?
 
FABIOLA ZULUAGA:  I love to be at home.  I knew this was, I mean, the last tournament of this month.  I was just thinking about going home. 
 
Q.  What sort of a reception do you expect to get?
 
FABIOLA ZULUAGA:  I don't know.  I haven't talked to them.  But I guess there's going to be a press conference when I get there, and I don't know what else.  We're getting there on Friday night.  Maybe I have Saturday and Sunday to rest.  We'll see what happen on Monday. 
 
Q.  A party, do you think?
 
FABIOLA ZULUAGA:  I'll party, for sure (smiling).  Yeah, with my boyfriend and few friends, for sure we're going out to celebrate this.  
 
Q.  Is it the biggest check that you ever won?
 
FABIOLA ZULUAGA:  Yeah, maybe.  I haven't picked it up yet.  I don't know (laughter).  
 
Q.  You think it's going to be?
 
FABIOLA ZULUAGA:  Maybe.  It's not a good thing to talk about, I mean (smiling).  I don't really like to tell everybody how much I'm winning.  But I didn't -- I even don't know how much I'm getting, so...  Just wait. 
 
Q.  You were saying you were very nervous in the first three games.  I was wondering how you felt last night thinking about the match today?  Did you sleep well?
 
FABIOLA ZULUAGA:  Yeah, I was lucky.  I wasn't thinking about it.  So that's what I try to do, you know, I just ask my coach about the game like 15 minutes before the match.  Otherwise, I play the match the night before and when I have to play, I'm tired.  Yeah, I just sleep well and I talk about it this morning.  Yeah, I was nervous.  It was my first time that I play against a No. 1 player and, you know, playing in this big stadium and all this.  But after 3-Love, I was loosen up a little bit and I could play better tennis.  Not the one I wish to play.  
 
Q.  What is your next tournament?
 
FABIOLA ZULUAGA:  I'm playing at home, Bogota, then I'm going Indian Wells, Miami, Charleston, Amelia, all the clay court season.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT