OLYMPIC GAMES RIO 2016: GOLF
August 17, 2016
Maria Verchenova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Maria, how big is it for you to take part in the Olympics?   
MARIA VERCHENOVA: It's pretty big. Olympics for the first time, obviously it's really big for me. To be the only Russian playing here is amazing.   
   
 Q. Is there a big buzz about it in Russia?   
MARIA VERCHENOVA: Yeah, we did‑‑ oh, my God, I did so much mass media before I got to Olympics. I even started like a year before. It was almost in the way of me practicing and stuff like this. It was a lot, so I was turning the guys down.   
Yes, of course, and hopefully that's going to push Russian golf forward.  
   
 Q. What would it take to get Russian golf going forward, do you think?   
MARIA VERCHENOVA: Well, obviously some of us win events. It's getting there, but it's very slowly. But we have so many golf clubs now in a really high level. We just need to get more players.   
   
 Q. Will golf get more funding from the government, since it's an Olympic sport, do you think?  
MARIA VERCHENOVA: They were supporting, the Olympic Committee was supporting me for the last year, year and a half. They were playing for my coach, my caddie, all my travel.   
I don't know what's going to happen next after the Olympics, but obviously coming to the Olympics was fantastic.  
   
 Q. How is the Olympian experience?   
MARIA VERCHENOVA: You know, it's weird, because when I get to the village, I feel like I'm playing in the Olympics. As soon as I get to the golf course, I feel like I'm playing a big major, especially this golf course. I was thinking five times today, I feel like I'm playing the U.S. Open. It's so long and it's so windy. It's a golf course which would suit a U.S. Open course.   
   
 Q. Are you involved in golf in Russia somehow? Are they consulting you or are you just playing?  
MARIA VERCHENOVA: Just playing. I'm an editor of Golf Digest in Russia, as well. I'm writing a lot in the magazine. I will probably start to do a lot more after the Olympics, because were kind of giving me some time for practice. I will probably change a little bit the magazine itself, put more fashion. But other than that, not really.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT