OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 8, 2010
Maria Verchenova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. 4-under, happy with it?
 MARIA VERCHENOVA: Oh, yeah, sure. I think I'm lying second now.

 Q. So what's the goal here for the week?
 MARIA VERCHENOVA: You know, I mean it's one of the weeks where I've got to stay kind of positive. I didn't have a good season, but coming back, you know, thinking positive, working with a new coach, so it's very good. 

 Q. So this week, you could keep your card, right? 
 MARIA VERCHENOVA: Yeah, it's one of those weeks where I've got to get I think Top 20 to keep my card, or I've got to go back to Qualifying School. But I'm not thinking about that, so I'm just playing. 

 Q. So what is the -- you said you had a difficult year. Maybe go over the year and what was different about today. 
 MARIA VERCHENOVA: It's not just today. I think it's just the last two months, I was playing quite good, and I had good weeks, I had good result. And I just -- you know, I think it's just all how I'm thinking and how I'm approaching the game.

 Q. So today, what would you say was key with getting that 4-under today?
 MARIA VERCHENOVA: Like the first ten holes, I was like, I was having pars and pars and I had chances for birdies, but I didn't make them. 
 And it was just to stay patient and you know, kind of -- like my caddie was really calming me down because I really wanted to have a birdie and said, don't worry, it will come. And I started making some.

 Q. You birdied the last?
 MARIA VERCHENOVA: Yes.

 Q. How did that feel? 
 MARIA VERCHENOVA: Obviously strong finish is really good always. I had I think two years ago, I had the same, I had two birdies in the last two. And I think the last two holes are quite difficult, so very happy with that.

 Q. So you're not thinking about that Top 20 finish but obviously it must be weighing over you somewhat?
 MARIA VERCHENOVA: No, that's why I'm not thinking about it. Just going forward it, playing a good game, and if it's going in, it's going in, and if it's not going in, it's not, that's all.

 Q. A strong finish must put you in a good mind-set and frame of mind for tomorrow I would imagine?
 MARIA VERCHENOVA: You know, it's still three days to go so it's hard to say. Obviously it's good that I have a good round today. 

 Q. Did you get an impression of how the course might play at certain stages tomorrow, whether it was conducive in the afternoon or the morning? 
 MARIA VERCHENOVA: You know, I've been playing here for the last four years so sometimes it gets really windy, and I love windy weather and sometimes it's quiet. I don't really mind. 

 Q. Can you sum up your season, the year you've just had?
 MARIA VERCHENOVA: It was a little hard because I've had a few injuries and I went back to Q-School and I made it, so I can't really say a lot about it.

 Q. What were your injuries?
 MARIA VERCHENOVA: Lower back at the German Open and then I hurt my wrist.

 Q. How are you feeling now physically?
 MARIA VERCHENOVA: Very well. I've been working back in the gym. I was very ill after India but I recovered, I was taking it easy. I was more working on my mind than my golf. 
 It's really, really nice that 'golf in DUBAi' invited me and I'm really thankful for that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT