DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 12, 2008
Maria Verchenova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   BETHAN CUTLER: Would you like to just talk about some of the highlights from the day? 
 MARIA VERCHENOVA: Well, definitely. The bunker shot on the 8th, I pushed the ball over, went to the bunker and just holed it in. I thought it was really good. My iron game was really good, and I hit a lot of greens and I'm happy with my game.
 BETHAN CUTLER: What was the difference between yesterday and today? 
 MARIA VERCHENOVA: Well, yesterday, I mean, I had just a bit of damage in the fairways, too, so I made double, pushed the ball to the right and I was almost unlucky. So while Annika holed it, I had many putts today. 
 BETHAN CUTLER: We understand that Dubai is a special place for you, you spend quite a lot of time here practising and with your coach.
 MARIA VERCHENOVA: My coach, Mike Walters, he lives here with his family. I just practice here quite a lot, like four times a year, on this golf course. 
 BETHAN CUTLER: Do you know it very well? What do you think of the golf course.
 MARIA VERCHENOVA: It's quite tough. Definitely to have a good short game, it's a good golf course and it suits my game. It's like before the week started, I feel like I was going to do well here. 

 Q. You were feeling confident after shooting 6-under? 
 MARIA VERCHENOVA: Yeah. 

 Q. What are the highlights or what actually clicked, like iron game, driver, was it the combination or the whole thing that clicked today?
 MARIA VERCHENOVA: Today the putting was incredible. Everything was going in and I was getting really close to the hole all of the time. My driver has always been good, I was always in the middle of the fairway, so I think putting. 

 Q. How are the greens here, is it easy to read the greens?
 MARIA VERCHENOVA: After I came back from Moscow, I didn't play golf for two weeks and I went to play with Gary Player in South Africa and I came here. They are so quick here for me, and my caddie, he just helped me a lot because he's a member here. 
 Well, they are quite difficult to read, because sometimes I just can't see if it's left-to-right or right-to-left. 

 Q. Some have said that women's golf needs to be glamorous. Can you second that? Are you happy with the fact that you're The Ladies European Tour female star; do you enjoy that highlight?
 MARIA VERCHENOVA: Yeah. (Laughing).

 Q. I guess you are the youngest competitor in this tournament. 
 MARIA VERCHENOVA: Well, I'm 22. 

 Q. How do you feel among all of these experienced players, and you did a very good job today. 
 MARIA VERCHENOVA: Well, you know, it's just like to be the only one from Russia, it feels good and I really want to show the kids so that you can play golf and so that you can play good golf. 
 Well, I don't care that I'm the youngest or that I'm the oldest. It just doesn't matter. The main aim is to play good golf, definitely. 

 Q. This is Annika's last competition, do you think it's an honour to see her? 
 MARIA VERCHENOVA: Oh, definitely. Annika did so much in her career. She won just absolutely everything. It's so nice to play with her in the last round. I think she will come back after she has a family definitely. But I mean, we will miss her. 

 Q. What do you like most about Annika, is it her play, her game, her mentality? 
 MARIA VERCHENOVA: Oh, just everything. You know, she usually gets everything all together to win a round. She is such a strong person and we can learn a lot from her. 

 Q. With tennis after Sharapova and Svetlana, how about golf in Russia, are many youngsters taking up golf in Russia?
 MARIA VERCHENOVA: Golf in Russia? What about golf in Russia? 

 Q. How many youngsters play golf in Russia?
 MARIA VERCHENOVA: Golf in Russia is not popular at all. It's nothing like football or ice hockey. We need to deveflop this. Hopefully in a few years' time, it will grow a little bit more and we need to get more young guys and girls playing golf. I think we are working on it very hard. 
 BETHAN CUTLER: Thanks and good luck with the rest of the tournament. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT