OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 20, 2011
John Simon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


   THE MODERATOR: We'll open up with questions for John Simon. 

 Q. In the Toledo game and also last week against Miami, both teams were able to get quick starts on you offensively. Had an impact on the game. You have a Colorado team this week that has some offensive skill as well. How do you shore up and make sure that doesn't happen this week? 
 JOHN SIMON: We definitely have to make sure we execute early on. That's been our problem as of late. We're really focusing on that this week. We just got to make sure that doesn't happen. Coach Heacock gave a stat. In the second, third and fourth quarter, we don't give up points. It's usually that early on. We have to make sure we shore that up and are ready to go on Saturday.

 Q. Where the defense was late in the game when Miami was driving, did fatigue or any kind of being worn down a little bit play a part in that drive at all?
 JOHN SIMON: No, I don't think so. We're trained to be out there as long as we can. Our guys are in terrific shape. I don't think that played any part of it. Lack of execution allowed them to drive down. They have great athletes. We knew they were going to make some plays. They just made them at the right time. 

 Q. Coach Fickell was mentioning those first couple of drives, first couple scores for Miami, felt like some of the younger guys on defense might have been a little shellshocked about what was going on. Did you sense that at all on the field? Is that a learning experience for you guys?
 JOHN SIMON: Yeah, that could be the case. I knew up front we were all right. Michael played well. All our young guys up front played well. That's usually the case in a big game, especially late night, prime time, things like that. Just getting your feet wet for those younger guys, things like that. I think they stepped up big later in the game. That was good to see. 

 Q. What did you think the mood was of the team after the game or since the game, I should say? 
 JOHN SIMON: Since the game, I mean, we're fired up. It's an exciting week for us. These are the things you look forward to. You never want to lose, but you got to see what kind of team you have this week, seeing how we're going to react and build off this loss. Seeing the guys in there breaking down the film, something nice to see. Getting on the field today will be nice.

 Q. You had a decade where you always seemed to come up with exactly the play you needed to get back in the game. Were you a little bit surprised that neither offensively or defensively did anybody really make a play that kind of got you back after that?
 JOHN SIMON: After watching the tape there's a lot of positives. You can always find positives in every game. 
 We're not going to make excuses for ourselves. Miami came to play and got the job done. Our objective this week is Colorado. Like I said, just getting on the field today, we'll bring that fire back. Everyone's excited. We got a big challenge for us on Saturday. 

 Q. John, Jim Heacock said before the season that leadership on defense was going to be a key. How do you think that stands right now? Do you feel you're stepping into that role?
 JOHN SIMON: Yeah, absolutely. I have stepped into that role. Losing older guys are detrimental to our defense. That's always great to see young guys not be nervous, go out there, put themselves on the line for the team, things like that. Just seeing guys go out there and compete is what it's all about. I think we have a very competitive defense, aggressive guys. I think it's going to pay off for us.

 Q. Can you assess your play so far this year?
 JOHN SIMON: I'm doing my best, anything I can to help my team, just trying to do my job out there. What I'm doing doesn't matter if we're not getting wins.

 Q. Coach says there's a 17-hour rule with the team. It's been a while since Ohio State has had that kind of performance and outcome in a football game. Is it possible to forget something?
 JOHN SIMON: I wouldn't say you forget it. You put it in the back of your mind. You always want to learn from your past. I think we definitely learned from it, fix up those corrections, the mistakes we made this past Saturday. 
 Colorado is our objective now, so that's all we're focused on. 

 Q. John, I think you're the only Big Ten team playing another BCS conference team this week. Wondering, do you feel like you could use a light touch right now or do you like the fact you have a PAC-12 team coming in here that can sling it?
 JOHN SIMON: This is why we come to Ohio State, for the challenges. Facing great teams every week, that's why we come here. 
 You're always going to have a challenge on Saturdays. We're excited for this one. I don't think any of our guys want to break. We're up to the challenge. Like I said, guys are in there this morning breaking down film, game planning, so we're ready to go.

 Q. What are the challenges with this Colorado team? What stands out to you about them?
 JOHN SIMON: Everything stands out. They got a great wide receiver core, great offensive line, we'll good quarterback, runningback, threats all over the field. We're going to have to make sure we're game planning for the run and pass and we're going to have to stop both. 

 Q. John, this doesn't directly affect you, but I think some people might have questions about the first-year quarterbacks, first-year head coach. You're doing your job, but how do you respond to things like that if there are people asking questions about your coach or quarterbacks?
 JOHN SIMON: We can't worry about what other people say. We know what's going on on our team, inside the locker room. We're a team. I mean, I can tell you everyone on the team has 100% faith in everybody. That's how it's going to stay. 
 THE MODERATOR: John, thank you. 
 JOHN SIMON: Thank you. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT