OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 30, 2011
John Simon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q. You've been asked this before, you lost seven starters on defense, but there seems to be a lot of confidence in that unit. Can you talk about where that confidence comes from and how good you think this defense can be? 
 JOHN SIMON: Yeah, I definitely think we lost guys who we're really going to miss. But the confidence definitely comes from having guys who you know you can rely on and trust out there on the field. That's what defense is about, everyone doing their job, everyone doing their 1/11th. So far during camp and during this week, I think we've done a nice job of that. 

 Q. Does playing a game help push all the negative stuff back a little bit further now? Now that you're dealing with games and you don't have to listen to all the other stuff? 
 JOHN SIMON: I would say the negative has become a positive in our locker room. We've really come together and done a nice job throughout camp and everything. Having a nice week of practice so far. But it's definitely enjoyable having something to look forward to, which is this Saturday. So we're ready to go. 

 Q. What's it like to be a player right now given the off-season and the grind of training camp and can the lights at the end of the tunnel that it's a game and opener? What's it like to be a player at Ohio State now? 
 JOHN SIMON: This off-season has really gone fast. Just being with guys every day who are very enthusiastic and passionate about what they. It makes it very enjoyable. Just coming into practice every day or lifting or meetings, it makes it fun, and time flies. 

 Q. What's it mean to you to be one of the team captains for this opening game where you guys are expected to sort of make a statement, so to speak, about how things have gone on and what things will be like from here on? 
 JOHN SIMON: It's a great honor. I found out this morning. We have many guys that are capable of that job. But to be put in this position, I'm very grateful for that. I'll do my best this Saturday. 

 Q. Could you talk a little about Akron and what concerns you most about their offense? And if you could tell us a little bit of a scouting report? We haven't heard much about them. 
 JOHN SIMON: They have a lot of weapons on offense. They're a very good offense. They've got a lot of linemen back who have seen game experience. They've got a great quarterback starting for them. 
 You know, they have so many weapons, we'll have to defend them all. And just working on that this week, just scheming everything up, playing together, and we're going to have to go out Saturday and execute. 

 Q. With your senior class, just talk a little about the rotating captains idea. You this week, and I mentioned you've got a big group, a lot of leaders. What are your thoughts about the idea of rotating it? 
 JOHN SIMON: I mean, Coach Fickell thinks it's best, and we'll follow him. I think that's best for us, too, because a lot of young guys don't know the seniors as well as we do and things like that. We just have a great senior class. 
 I think throughout the season you'll see the true leaders will step up and things like that. Then at the end of the year, the younger are guys will have a better idea who they feel the captains on the team are. 

 Q. We saw Michael Bennett as a true freshman make the two-deep. What have you seen from him during camp that's allowed him to move up the depth chart? 
 JOHN SIMON: Michael's got great athleticism. He's great with his hands and everything. But the best thing about Michael is he's willing to learn and he's got a little fight to him. That's what it means. He's definitely -- he picks up the plays fast and things like that, but when he's out there, he's going to fight. Just having a guy on the field like that is great. He's doing a nice job for us. 

 Q. You're used to seeing Coach Fickell on your side of the ball. But how has he handled this month? Have you noticed what you've seen with him, or is he the same old guy? 
 JOHN SIMON: He's the same old guy. He's being himself is. He's done an amazing job leading us, and we'll follow him wherever he takes us. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT