NAVISTAR LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY MAXXFORCE
September 23, 2008
Kim Welch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MIKE SCANLON: Kim, thanks for coming in. Congratulations on earning this sponsor exemption through "The Big Break" Kanapali. You won earlier this year on the DFT, the Duramed Futures Tour, and you've also earned your LPGA Tour card by finishing tenth on the Duramed Futures Tour Money List. If you would, just talk about being here in Prattville and playing your first LPGA event.   
 KIM WELCH: I'm really excited to be here. It's my first event. I have my brother with me this week on the bag, and I'm just looking forward to having a fun week and just getting my feet wet and getting some experience out there.  
 MIKE SCANLON: Now, when you were playing The Big Break, was the thought of earning an exemption to Navistar was that kind of in the back of your mind or were you just kind of playing to just do your best?  
 KIM WELCH: Yeah. I mean I knew what was at stake, obviously, but you know, that just TV show is just -- it's so weird how anything can happen. Even the best players can get kicked out early, so I just wanted to have fun during that show and not worry about the outcome, just kind of take it one shot at a time.  
 MIKE SCANLON: Have you had a chance to play the course yet?   
 KIM WELCH: I played a little bit this morning. I'm going out in the afternoon to play the rest.   
 MIKE SCANLON: Do you like what you see?   
 KIM WELCH: I do. Yeah. This course fits me well, I think. It's a longer course. The rough's not too bad. There's not too much trouble out there.  
 MIKE SCANLON: I saw you took part in the junior clinic this morning. Can you just tell us a little bit about that.   
 KIM WELCH: (Laughs). It was fun. The Trick Shot guy was awesome, Eric. And he had us doing the chicken dance at the end. I've never done that on a golf course, I have to say. (Laughs). So it's great.  
  
  Q. Any particular holes that you're going to be concentrating more on out there? Anything you're looking out for?   
 KIM WELCH: I haven't seen the whole course yet, so I can't really say, but I'll know more by this afternoon. Is there anything I should look out for? (Laughs). Do you know? (Laughs).   
  
  Q. How old were you when you got interested in playing golf?   
 KIM WELCH: I got started when I was 7, and I'm 25 now. I've been playing on the Duramed Futures Tour for the last three years.  
  
  Q. So how did it feel to be with the juniors out there?  
 KIM WELCH: Oh, I mean it was great. That's exactly how I was when I was little. I remember going to the Seniors tour event out in Sacramento, and I would go to the junior clinics and watch everybody, and it was just -- you know, it just blows your mind when you're little to see the golf stars out there just kind of hanging out with you.   
  
  Q. What made you decide to do "The Big Break"? How did you decide to do that?  
 KIM WELCH: Honestly, I wasn't too excited about even doing it, you know, but I had a couple friends tell me that they thought that I might be good for the show. So I finally auditioned kind of on the last day that I could, and three months later they told me I was in.   
  
  Q. You look like the reality chick.   
 KIM WELCH: Oh, gosh. Don't call me that. Am I really? Don't clump me in there. (Laughs).   
 No. It's been great just getting recognized by a few more people. I had some of the kids come up to me today, and it's nice to know that they're just so into it, and they're getting golf any way they can.  
 MIKE SCANLON: Kim, thanks so much for coming in.  
 KIM WELCH: Thank you.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT