NL DIVISION SERIES: CARDINALS VS BRAVES
October 3, 2019
Mike Foltynewicz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We'll get started with Braves Game 2 pitcher Mike Foltynewicz.
Q. When Snit had that conversation sending you down late in the year, in your heart of hearts did you think you would be starting in the playoffs a few months later?
MIKE FOLTYNEWICZ: Yes and no. I would have to have that confidence, especially when you're in the show, to think that way; you're going to be starting in the playoffs. Still go down there, get your work in and you'll be back.
And you kind of envision this process, how it kind of played out because that's what you kind of, your mindset needs to be about.
But by the same time I was kind of a long way away from getting back to where I was. And I just kind of kept my head down and kept pushing, trucking and a lot of things worked out. I cleaned up my mechanics a little bit.
But to see where I am at today, it was a little farfetched. But at the same time I kept that same goal and dream that I'm going to be with these guys no matter what it is bullpen, starting, when the playoffs come around.
Q. Seemed like things started to click right there, that August 23rd start at Citi Field. Would you agree that that's where things turned around? And what did feel different that night and moving forward?
MIKE FOLTYNEWICZ: That was, again, because that was the first time I faced the Mets, I think, this year and in a long time. A few new bats in there. I really mixed the ball well -- inside, outside, just pitching inside. I kind of shied away from even last year a little bit.
But just being able to throw the ball inside, especially to righties, it's a big advantage to myself -- if I throw a little bit harder they kind of got to get their hands ready, all that stuff. And then if I mix my changeup and curveball in there, there's a lot of weapons that I can go on -- get early pitches, outs, like I did that day.
Keep the pitch count down. Go out there be a starting pitcher, instead of having 100 pitches through five or something like that.
It's been really -- after that game, you know, I didn't have 97, 98 every single pitch. I was pitching with 93, 94, using all my off-speed, like I said, and just mixing pitches, especially throwing inside and guys, just keeping them off balance has been the big key.
Q. You got a chance to get your feet wet in the playoffs last year. What were your biggest takeaways from those two games against the Dodgers?
MIKE FOLTYNEWICZ: I think it just kind of happened a little fast out there. I've been kind of talking with a few people about that. But at the same time it's the same game that we've been playing all year. I'm sure it's bigger risk and everything, but you kind of, that's what you kind of should have been preparing for during the season.
Every pitch is the same and every pitch means something. And that's where it's going to be like in the playoffs. You see the few games recently on TV, it's like every single pitch the crowd's buzzing, the crowd's into it. So you should be mentally focused every time.
And sometimes you get away from that, you know when it's your first time out there it's, like, you're in LA, big crowd, every single pitch, it seemed like every second the crowd was into it. Sometimes your mind wanders a little bit.
But a lot of us got experience last year. I think it's great. And I think it's just a little bit of an advantage. Things happen a little faster out there just because you know what's at stake. But at the same time we just slow things down, stay within yourself just like you have been all year, and good things happened.
That's what we've been practicing for. You execute in big situations, and this is a big situation, too, so we all should be ready for it.
Q. Before you went down, you had a start at St. Louis in late May, which I think was maybe one of your better starts, maybe your best start in the first half of the season. What do you remember about that game? And did you feel like at the moment you were kind of getting back on track then?
MIKE FOLTYNEWICZ: I think about I only went five innings that day, but I remember a lot of people coming back to me, saying that's, okay, that slider you've been throwing that whole game, that's where it needs to be. I knew my slider was on point that game.
It was just kind of to repeat that delivery so my arm didn't hurt and all that kind of stuff. So it was a little tough at the same time just knowing you're kind of there and you're almost over the hill, and either your slider gets hit or you just get hit around with your fastball or something like that.
From that take A.A. coming to me after that game saying, that slider you threw in that game, that's where it was at, 2018, that's where we need you to be. And that was a tidbit just work off that video, see where my release point is and all that stuff.
But at the same time then after that, I think it was just trying a little bit too hard to make things happen. The team was doing fantastic all year, all these thoughts kind of creep in your process. But that takeaway was my slider was working that day. And I think that was the day we kind of introduced the changeup a lot more just to keep guys off balance.
Q. Last year was a really special year for you and I know it was probably exciting and emotional when you were named the Game 1 starter, but I'm sure being named to the rotation after the crazy season you've had this year was emotional and exciting in its own different way. Can you just explain the differences of emotions when you received the news that you would be getting a start in both years?
MIKE FOLTYNEWICZ: Last year I just had a good year. So I was just kind of -- I was going to take it into the postseason. You're doing well. But this year, I had to prove a lot of people wrong.
As a team, we proved a lot of people wrong last year. We still kind of had to this year. But when you come off a good season like that and then you come into this year and you're just not doing well, especially when the team's doing well, you're trying so hard, so hard, you don't want to be that guy that drags the team down.
Seems like I was doing that at the beginning of the year. And this year we've come a long ways, doesn't seem like that, but things can flip within a year like that.
I had my first son, all that stuff, all that stuff was kind of a big game changer, really got me going, got me excited. And this year it was just different, just trying to come back from that injury, but to get to that playoff.
And it was just proving a lot of people wrong within baseball. I know, I got friends back home and all that stuff. So it's just keeping your head down and pushing it. So like I said, not even starting but just to be on the playoff roster it was a lot of hard work to come back from.
We've just got a bunch of great players, great pitchers, too, that I'm working against, too, so to kind of come back, have them give me another chance and to trust me, it's a little bit, just for them to trust me a little it's special.
Q. Does it puzzle you at all that you pitched well against the Cardinals in St. Louis and not nearly as well against them here in your career?
MIKE FOLTYNEWICZ: Not really. It's a little weird because I tend -- I don't know if I pitch better on the road than what I do at home. It's just things happen that are weird like that. I'm not really worried about that coming into here.
It's just about executing pitches. But I mean we got the home crowd behind me tomorrow, so that's just going to be that's extra special. That's my advantage already.
But I think that's just things happen when you're on the road and on home. But it's something funny to look at. I grew up a St. Louis fan, so maybe going there I decided to prove a little something, prove some people there. A lot of family when I go to St. Louis, too. So you know how that goes. But we don't really look too much into that, though.
Q. Is there anything you can tell the guys making their postseason debut, how fast the heart races or just something they've got to experience?
MIKE FOLTYNEWICZ: Yeah, that's what, things go really fast, even though you don't think they do. Dodgers last year, I don't even remember breathing too much let alone throwing pitches.
But I think a lot of guys got experience last year. Like the few that didn't, like I've just been talking about them, it's the same game you've been pitching all year. Sure the stakes are a little different, but at the same time you've been executing pitches all year, two outs, runners on bases, all this stuff.
We've been working all year in bullpens in between to get ready for this situation, so it all comes naturally when we're out there when our adrenaline is pumping because you can't really practice to that anywhere else. So I'm glad a lot of us got experience last year.
But I think all these guys are going to handle it well. They're all so dang mature nowadays when they come up, 20, 21 years old, it's amazing. I think they'll handle themselves well. And we have a great staff when you come in, catching staff and coaching staff, when they come in to settle them down a little bit and go from there.
Q. Talking about one of those young guys, Mike Soroka, what are your impressions of him this season and what growth have you seen from him? And does he really seem like a rookie to you in the way he's handled himself?
MIKE FOLTYNEWICZ: Not a rookie at all, seems like. Just the way he talks about baseball, it's the way he goes about it. You don't think he's three years out of high school, two years out of high school. It's really amazing.
Gave him a hug after the season ended and I said, it was really, really fun to watch you every fifth day. He was going out there, going a minimum almost six innings every time, six, seven innings, just eating guys up with the bat. It was something truly amazing to see.
You didn't see a dip in the season really. You didn't see the roller coaster -- up/down, up/down. He was straight, steady, smooth. He was the ace all season long. And to do that at 20 years ago in this division, against the Nats, the Mets, just everybody, it was pretty special to watch.
He's the real deal. I mean, and like I said, it doesn't seem like he's a rookie at all, just the way he carries himself. Even out on the mound when he gets in trouble, he's cool, calm, collected. I don't know if he breaks a sweat, to be honest out there.
When he comes into the dugout half the time he's not even sweating. He's one of those guys, he's up talking in between the dugouts. He's just so into the game still when he's pitching. Some guys are down in the tunnel or just sitting on the bench getting ready. He's up asking questions, still into the game when we're batting.
So it's all those little things. He's just a stud all around on and off the field, too, a great kid. And I'm really glad he was on our side this year and I got to watch that every fifth day. And he just brings out the best in us, too, also.
So it's always a friendly competition. We're out there. We see him go seven, eight innings. A lot of times he probably could have gone nine innings, but we were just watching out for him and doing what's best. But it was really fun to watch him.
Q. Going back to what you were talking about with the young guys in their first postseason, and it seems to be in vogue now the teams like the Dodgers, the Astros, yourself, where you have a bunch of older guys and a bunch of really young guys. Talk a little bit about the mix of veterans and youth on this team and how it seems to have really clicked for you guys the last couple of years.
MIKE FOLTYNEWICZ: It's been really fun. Like I said, it started last year when Ronald and Isaac kind of showcased their stuff and why they were meant to be here.
And then you go get Mac. You have Flow. We go out and get Joycie, an incredible guy -- J.D. Who else am I forgetting?
But you get this good mix of veteran and young players, and actually we all get along. Dallas comes over. He's the veteran on the pitching staff with Julio. I'm not young anymore. But you've got Newc and Fried and Soroka. It was a great mix.
Sometimes you've got your cliques on team, group over here, group over here. Everyone genuinely loves each other. It starts in spring training when Mac and Kakes and all these guys have a little meeting, like, all right guys, we know why we're here; we're going to go out and win this thing.
And it's a pretty special bond and that translates out to the field. I really believe that they've got to have a really great positive clubhouse and that starts with the veterans and then that kind of trickles down to us and makes all of us feel comfortable instead of feeling like robots out on the field, or I can't act like this because someone might say something.
All these guys talk to you like they're your brother, like they really care for you. Just that alone makes you go out and play baseball that much more better, that much more relaxed. You see how Ozzie's talking to the coaches in between plays. It's stuff like that. It's fun. These guys are bringing fun back to baseball and that really translates when we go out to the field.
But it's just fun, even though you look forward coming to the field nowadays because you're going to get a laugh out of Mac or don't know what Kakes is going to do that day. All this stuff. And that translates out to the field and we're cheering, we're pulling for every single guy, all those little things.
And at the end of the day that's where we're at today in the postseason. So it's been a fun ride with those group of people.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT