NL DIVISION SERIES: BRAVES VS DODGERS
October 4, 2018
Mike Foltynewicz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Los Angeles - 6, Atlanta - 0   
 Q.  Mike, how did you feel when you got out there, any different than a regular start?  Which of those pitches, the two home run pitches would you want back more or what would you do different with either of those pitches?  
MIKE FOLTYNEWICZ: Just at the beginning, the feelings were just like a regular start really, just tried to calm myself down, just tried to relax out there during my routine, which I think I did a good job of.  Joc's homerun really didn't bother me.  It was kind of somewhat all right pitch, like a ball outside out over the plate.  Just got his hands extended.  It was the third pitch of the game, so might have expected a fastball.  But just got his arm extended, kind of tip your hat there.   
About the only positive is getting out of that first inning, but the Muncy homerun hurt especially hitting Joc Pederson with strikes, walking Turner and then it was kind of a similar situation to when I faced him during the season.  They got their power up and you saw what happened.   
 Q.  What's the toughest part about facing a lineup like this that can stack so many lefties against you?  
MIKE FOLTYNEWICZ: It's about that.  I've had struggles in the past against lefties.  I think I've done a better job this year, and they were just really patient tonight.  They took a lot of good pitches.  My off-speed was not there at all.  I threw a couple of sliders, but they weren't to lefties.  But other than that, if you don't have your fastball command right away, they're going to spit on a lot of things, which they did tonight.   
It's just a little tough for me to kind of get inside on a lefty, so they're obviously waiting for a pitch out over the plate.  So kind of all those things were really a factor.  Didn't get to the changeup too much tonight.  It was kind of really short outing.  So kind of those things went into effect.  But just wasn't my night.   
 Q.  Was the sequence there with the hit by pitch and a walk with two outs, was that the most frustrating part to go down with a three-run homer?  
MIKE FOLTYNEWICZ: Yeah, pretty much.  I've been thinking about that all night especially in years past, two strikes and two outs, pretty much for all that to unwind like that really takes the cake.  It's really tough to go out there.  You know, you're grinding.  You get two quick outs and then to get two strikes, hit the batter, fall behind, turn and walk them, and for that to happen and put your team down 4 to 0 in the second inning is not where you want to be, especially opening up a series and then you have Kershaw tomorrow.   
 Q.  Mike, given the short outing, do you feel like you can be available the rest of this series, either out of the bullpen or maybe potential start if you guys can make it that far?  
MIKE FOLTYNEWICZ: Yes.  Be ready tomorrow if they want me.   
 Q.  Mike, do you feel like four days off felt like sort of a choppy effort all the way around.  Did that feel that way as well to you over the course of three hours?  
MIKE FOLTYNEWICZ: Not really.  I mean we all had to go through it.  I mean, they played games the other day while we were off.  But yeah, it's just baseball.  It's October baseball.  Your body is kind of ready for it no matter what goes on out there.  And yeah, you're always going to be ready whether it's tomorrow or four days.  I just did everything I could to be ready for this moment, but just things didn't work out the way I wanted out there, but whenever the next chance gets, I'll definitely be competing like I was tonight.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT