AEGON CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 10, 2010
Dudi Sela
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 D. SELA/A. Roddick
  6-4, 7-6 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Is that your best result playing on grass? You had a good Wimbledon a couple years ago.   
 DUDI SELA: Yeah, yeah. This year I started my first week on grass, so pretty good result. Last year I made the fourth round in Wimbledon, so I think it's a little bit better. But before last year I didn't like the grass. Now I try -- I'm loving it.  
  
  Q. Andy Roddick said you played an almost perfect game and you had a very precise game plan. Was a lot of thought that went into the match beforehand?  
 DUDI SELA: Yeah, I played very well. I thought that I didn't serve well, but after the match, my coach told me that I served 14 aces, so for me it's really good.  
 I knew that from the baseline I have a little advantage, and I have to block his serve and trying to play the point from the baseline.  
  
  Q. Have you ever made a diving volley to win a match before?  
 DUDI SELA: No, never. First time.  
  
  Q. Do you practice it?  
 DUDI SELA: No. (Laughter.)  
  
  Q. Can you tell me what difference it makes when you come into a tournament, you look at a draw sheet and you're seeded?  
 DUDI SELA: I'm seeded?   
 It's not -- this tournament is really difficult, you know. I won two big -- the first two matches I played pretty good. I beat two lefties with a big serve.   
 And let's say I would lose today, it's only 20 points so it's not that much. It's really difficult to win a lot of matches on the grass. It's still 250, the tournament. If it was 500, it was much better, but to be seeded and to play one round before, it's not that big deal.  
  
  Q. What are your hopes for the tournament and for Wimbledon?  
 DUDI SELA: My hope is to go as far as I can, of course. There is Nadal playing here, Andy Murray, so it's really tough tournament. Every round that I'm winning, it's a bonus for me, and I try to play like today and try to surprise.  
  
  Q. What do you plan to do next week?  
 DUDI SELA: Next? Excuse me?   
  
  Q. Next week.   
 DUDI SELA: Next week I'm playing Eastbourne and then Wimbledon.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT