AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 24, 2009
Dudi Sela
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. TSONGA/D. Sela
  6-4, 6-2, 1-6, 6-1 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. What do you think the difference was out there? He was too powerful? Your serve let you down?  
 DUDI SELA: I think I didn't start so well. I was very nervous. He played, like you said, with a lot of power. My balls were very short. I didn't put a lot of high percentage on my serve.   
 Also in the second set, I had breakpoints, and I didn't take it. After I think he gave up. At 4-1 he gave me the set. At 40-30, played good.   
  
  Q. Looking back at your 10 days in Melbourne, what sort of lessons are you taking away?   
 DUDI SELA: I take a lot of confidence on this tournament. I beat two players in the top 40 in the world. I played three matches in quallies. In the last round I had a guy at five match points, and I took it. So I take a lot of confidence. I learned a lot from this week. I hope to continue the same way, to play solid every week.   
  
  Q. On the television coverage, it appeared at a change of ends you were in your bag on a phone or something.   
 DUDI SELA: Yeah, my phone was vibrating. It was on. So I tried to turn it off.   
  
  Q. Did they speak to you about that?  
 DUDI SELA: Yeah, he told me, Did you turn it off? The umpire told me, so I turned it off.   
  
  Q. Who was it?  
 DUDI SELA: Who was it what?   
  
  Q. Who was on the phone?   
 DUDI SELA: No, I got so many messages. I don't know. It was so many messages. So many phone calls from Israel.   
  
  Q. From the Prime Minister?  
 DUDI SELA: No, not yet. If I would win, maybe.   
  
  Q. Was that the biggest moment of your career, when you got to the World Group, beating Fernando?   
 DUDI SELA: Yeah, I think it was very important. After 20 years, I beat Massu and González, we got into the World Group. Also I made the final last year in Beijing. Was very nice also. So these two moments were special.   
  
  Q. Will you have any advice for Gasquet to play González tonight? In order to win against González, what do you have to do?   
 DUDI SELA: I think you have to come in -- to serve on his forehand and come in on the backhand. His backhand passing shot is not the best. He hits always to the middle, let you volley.   
 I don't think Gasquet is coming in too much to the net. So it's going to be tough for him. Just don't play to his forehand (smiling).   
  
  Q. With Tsonga, where do you see him in the tournament?   
 DUDI SELA: He's playing a few games good, and a few games not so good. He served very well today, I think.   
 But in the tournament, I think Murray, Nadal and Federer, they are, for me, the favorites, and after maybe it's Tsonga. Del Potro is also in good shape.  
  
  Q. Ahead of Djokovic?  
 DUDI SELA: I think so, yeah.   
  
  Q. Why?  
 DUDI SELA: Why? Because I think he's not in the best shape. Yesterday I saw the match, and I think he didn't play so well. He changed racquet, and I think he didn't really get used to it. It's very difficult.   
 I tried to change racquets two weeks ago, and almost I came with a different racquet here. The last second I really came with my old racquets. I know how it is feel when you don't trust your racquet.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT