NASCAR CAMPING WORLD TRUCK SERIES: FORD ECOBOOST 200
November 16, 2018
Myatt Snider
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: Continuing our post‑race media availabilities after tonight's NASCAR Camping World Truck Series Ford EcoBoost 200, we're joined now by the 2018 NASCAR Camping World Truck Series Rookie of the Year, Myatt Snider, driver of the No.13 Tenda Ford for ThorSport Racing. Myatt, hell of a season, bud. Talk to us a little bit about this evening and then the season overall.   
MYATT SNIDER: Yeah, you know, we didn't start off with the strongest truck by far. Really, really loose, and I couldn't really go anywhere with it, but the guys from ThorSport, even Rich Lushes and everybody, did some awesome adjustments, really made some wholesale changes and got to to where I could really drive it. Went from struggling to running like 18th to getting‑‑ catching guys in the top 10 while running 13th. We definitely gained some spots, but yeah, it was a really good team night for us adjusting like that.   
I think it bodes well for next season and just proud of them for giving me such a good TendaLouisiana Hot Sauce Ford F150.   
   
 Q. I talked to you earlier this year, and you said that you've already learned a ton this year compared to last year running full‑time, but what specifically do you think that you've improved on the most from last year to this year, whether it be restarts, preserving tires, getting on pit road, things of that nature?   
MYATT SNIDER: I think it's pretty much all of the above that you mentioned right there. The biggest thing is just learning how to race around the air because it's kind of unintuitive to start, and definitely‑‑ definitely getting restarts better, too, because I come from the world of late model stocks where there's a lot more leeway than there is here. You've got to be a lot more on your game here, and once you are on your game, you can get some pretty good runs. You've just got to time it really, really well.  
I couldn't have done that without everybody from ThorSport Racing and Duke and Rhonda Thorson for giving me good trucks. So it's been a pretty good year overall for us and our Ford F150s.   
   
 Q. Driving for ThorSport, you were on a team that was the only organization using Fords, so does that make it more difficult or easier to live up to the performance, being that only team using that manufacturer?   
MYATT SNIDER: I honestly liked it. I really liked working with Ford Performance. They're a great group, and they love what they do, and they have a passion for racing. It really kind of fit the style of the team, I guess. So they've definitely helped us out a bunch, and I think that moving to Ford was a really smart move for ThorSport. Yeah, I've enjoyed this year a lot working with them.   
   
 Q. Myatt, when you look at the battle between you and Gilliland, there was a stretch during the summer where he really out ran you guys, and it looked like it was going to be even closer than what it ended up being tonight. Does it make it rewarding to outrun a team like the 4 team from KBM?   
MYATT SNIDER: Yeah, absolutely. I think during the summer there was a lot of times where we were just kind of figuring things out, especially just little ins and outs that we needed to get better as a team, and we've really improved upon a bunch of stuff.   
And that culminated in kind of the fall stretch of the races with Talladega, Martinsville and Vegas, that sixth, second and third. So I think honestly, we've had a lot of speed it just sometimes hasn't shown because of us maybe having some teething problems, but honestly, for where we started and where we are now, I think it's quite an improvement, so I'm just really proud of everybody for working so hard at it.  
   
 Q. You've said in the last couple weeks that your goal is to remain with ThorSport and with this 13 team for next year. Have you guys started having conversations on that front? Is that still what the ultimate goal is for you?   
MYATT SNIDER: Yeah, it's still the ultimate goal. We have such a synergy with me and Rich Lushes that I think it's the smartest move personally to stick with that and see what we can do next year as a non‑rookie, and I think we'll honestly be running for a championship next year if we do run.   
   
 Q. Aside from winning Rookie of the Year, when you look back at 2018, what's going to stick out the most professionally to you?   
MYATT SNIDER: Just so much that I've learned, and especially some of the close runs we've had. Not a lot of people noticed, but some of the early runs we had in the season were really good, like we had some insane speed at the first Vegas. We passed Kyle Busch in the second stage for P2 and then ran sixth in Martinsville. So it didn't‑‑ not all the results quite showed, but I think that was just kind of showing what the raw potential of this team was. Definitely take away some of those runs and just everything that we've improved on as a team. That really sticks out to me.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT