BARRACUDA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 1, 2014
Kevin Lucas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Kevin, how did your round go today?
KEVIN LUCAS:   It went okay.   I got off to a good start, then kind of let some gas out towards the end. 
It was a good day. 

Q.   You're probably going to make the cut.   How does it feel to be playing on the weekend?
KEVIN LUCAS:   Feels good.   Feels good.   I had a little bit higher expectations going into today.   I wanted to be closer to the lead. 
But it's exciting.   The weekend of my first PGA TOUR event, it's pretty fun. 

Q.   Have you had to pinch yourself at all these last couple days, looking around, I'm playing in my first PGA event? 
KEVIN LUCAS:   It's been kind of surreal.   My caddie is my good buddy.   We're staying in the same hotel room.   Kind of almost hasn't hit me yet.   I guess this weekend or something it might hit me, so... 

Q.   Can you tell me what the adrenaline has been like for you, like the last couple holes, a big crowd?   Have you felt adrenaline like this before previously in golf?
KEVIN LUCAS:   Yeah, I mean, I have.   Even in my miniature events when I'm coming close to winning or you have a shot to win it, your adrenaline is going. 
I felt it a little bit more before, but it's been fun. 

Q.   I know you're a little disappointed how you finished today, but speak to how much fun you're having out on the course. 
KEVIN LUCAS:   I'm having a blast.   My family and everything here, they're cheering and everything.   It's about as fun as it gets. 

Q.   You said making the cut this weekend would be a dream come true.   What would it mean for you to be able to make that cut?
KEVIN LUCAS:   It would mean a lot.   I could play this weekend, hopefully make some good money, make a run at the top 10 or something to get into next week's event. 
It's a dream come true to make the cut at a PGA TOUR event. 

Q.   Do you still feel you have a shot at making the top 10?
KEVIN LUCAS:   Sure.   You have to shoot 63, 64, put points on the board, be right back in it.   It only takes one good round to do it. 

Q.   First PGA event, being in Reno, how special is that?
KEVIN LUCAS:   It's as good as it gets for me.   They have the Fry's in the San Jose area.   It's close to home, but it's not in Reno.   So it's pretty cool. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT