BAYLOR UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 5, 2016
Seth Russell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TCU - 62, Baylor - 22
Q. What happened out there?  It was totally unexpected.
SETH RUSSELL: Yeah, we weren't expecting that.  We just didn't execute.  They came out, played better than us.  They came out with a win.
Q. I know you guys try to block out all the outside noise and remain focused.  Clearly, it's almost impossible to do that.  How are distractions outside of the program affecting you guys?
SETH RUSSELL: It's tough.  Everybody knows what we're going through.  We don't use that as an excuse.  We have been coached better than that, we have been trained where we can't let those outside things influence us in one way or another.  We have to use that as motivation.
And we didn't execute well today.  We came out kind of firing and let off the gas a little bit.  I feel like a lot of that was my fault.  Reading the wrong guys and stuff like that.  But we just didn't execute, we didn't play well at all.  And TCU had it for us.
Q. You said that's no excuse, but, I mean, do you feel like that's a reason for today or is it a lack of preparation?  Is there anything you can point to for what happened today?
SETH RUSSELL: I think just we didn't execute.  We came out, we had a good game plan, but we didn't do what we needed to do on our side of the ball.
Offensively, we sputtered.  It gave them, I gave them an easy touchdown, it was a pick six and that kind of put us behind the eight ball a little bit more than what we already were.  We tried to come out and tried to make big plays and I just threw a lot of balls, and we can't do that if we want to be successful.
Q. Like you said, you came out firing, you hit the first touchdown pass.  It seemed like the offense just, is that TCU's defense that kind of took over during that stretch?
SETH RUSSELL: Not at all, it was all us.  We had penalties, and I'm not doing the right things on the offensive side of the ball.  We kept shooting ourselves in the foot.
Started out first and ten and then we get a procedure penalty, it put us back first and 15.
Then we get 14 yards on the third down or whatever on that drive, but we can't get the first down.  That's just us.  TCU came out and played hard, they played tough, but at the end, we just didn't execute.
Q. How do you make sure that, as a leader, how do you make sure this season doesn't crumble and fade away?
SETH RUSSELL: Just got to stay focused.  You can only say so much, the rest of it is about your preparation and about the way you play the game.  We have had a lot of talk, and we don't need to be talking right now, we need to be just focused on the next game, focused on doing what we need to do to get to a better ball game, or whatever it may be.
And also to show that Baylor is not going to give up.  We're in the fire, and we have been in the fire since the beginning, and I feel like it's making us tougher as a team, making us close as a team.  But we have to stay together through it all.
Q. (No microphone.)
SETH RUSSELL: Like outside stuff, a lot of talk inside.  But we just got to put that aside and stay focused on winning ball games.
Q. Were the players aware that the assistant, some of the assistant coaches, and a lot of support staff were going to put out that tweet, that kind of mass tweet last night?
SETH RUSSELL: Were we aware of it?  No, we weren't aware of it.  But like I said, stuff's going to happen.  We knew something was going to come out.  It is Baylor, stuff is going to come out the day before the game, we expect that.  We have everybody against us.  So we expect something negative, positive, whatever it may be, we preach that all week that, like, there's something that's going to come out.  That's just the bottom line.  That's what's going to happen and we have to expect that to happen and we did and we just didn't execute.
Q. You said that Baylor's not going to quit.  Based on what you saw out there today, those teammates, and I'm not expecting -- I'm not saying it's you, but did some players, in your opinion, some in the program, do you feel like some people have quit?
SETH RUSSELL: I'm not going to say that.  I have a lot of faith in these guys.  We been through the ringer and we're still in it.  We're not going to get out of it until after December 3rd.  We still have a lot of tough games coming up.
But like again, we got to keep preaching, or not preaching, but doing what we need to do to win ball games, to stay focused.  If that's getting in the film room more, that's what we're going to do.  Just to find something to help us get that edge back that we lost these past couple weeks.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT