BAYLOR UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 24, 2016
Seth Russell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Oklahoma State - 24, Baylor - 35
Q. You guys have done a good job all season of overlooking distractions.  Obviously the weather is something you can't control but that 95-minute delay that you had, to come back out with kind of the same intensity, how hard is that to do?
SETH RUSSELL: It's not hard to do.  It's what we're trained to do.  It's what Coach Kaz and them, that's what they train us to do every day.  There's going to be distractions and there's going to be things that happen that are negative but we had to put those aside and come out and play football.
Q. Can you talk about the way Zamora stepped up, obviously he had missed the first three games, and particularly with KD out, how important was that?
SETH RUSSELL: That was huge.  I knew he was going to step up.  He's a great football player and he showed that tonight.  He's another weapon to put in the offense, and he's a great guy.  He's working hard.  He never took any days off.  When he was suspended, he never griped one day.  He came out to work and it showed tonight.
Q. Chris Platt also had a big game.  Can you talk about his performance?
SETH RUSSELL: Yeah, I think he's been pretty upset the last couple weeks.  He had some big drops, kind of throughout the week, he had been beating himself up about it.  I just kept trying to encourage him.  He's a guy, he's a soft-spoken guy.  He doesn't talk a whole lot.  You just know by his demeanor he gets upset.  Just like everybody, you want to make the big play.  But he came out tonight, he came out firing and he did some great things like we knew he would.  He stepped up big time and he made some big plays for us.
Q. Second half, y'all had a few three-and-outs and things like that, just a little bit about the defense, just the-bend-don't-break kind of mentality they had the whole game and getting the key stops and key turnovers when you need it most?
SETH RUSSELL: That's a huge testament to the defense, they have been holding us in the games the past four games now, they have held us in there.  They have given us a shot.
And give full credit to Coach Bennett and their staff and OSU.  They had a great game.  They had a good game plan.  They were tough, but Coach Bennett, you know, they did a great job of adjusting at half-time a little bit.  But for the most part we put them in some bad situations, going for it on fourth down on our own 30 and they answered the play.  They answered the call and got the fumble recovery on the goal line which is huge and they got the fourth-down stop.
It just shows how hard those guys work.  They kept us in the game and I give them all the credit for sure.
Q. Can you take us through that 99- or 98-yard drive, some of the throws you made had touch but accuracy.  Was that about as good a rhythm in one drive as you've ever had in your life?
SETH RUSSELL: I think so.  You kind of have that, when you are playing a sport, you just get that feeling and I felt like I had it then.  I was telling Coach, just give me the ball.  Just let me try and distribute it around.  I was feeling good.  Our receivers were playing lights out.  Our offensive line were playing lights out.  I mean, I didn't think get touched -- I think maybe in the first quarter I got touched, but after that it was locked down up front and I give all the credit to those guys, Coach Clem.
But that 95-yarder, we knew we had to put it in there.  If we got the points, it was going to be game over, because the defense was going to shut them down.
Q. On that 89-yard touchdown, looked like the guy was five yards past, why did that play work -- playaction?
SETH RUSSELL: Well, you know, Chris Platt is a fast guy.  They were playing the stop and we just did a quick double move and he got open.  He did the rest.
Q. It may have been the way that they geared up on the run but the little tight end pass, the pass to Feuerbacher, I think he had 42 yards receiving for his career, and had 50 or something today; is that what opened it up as much as it did?
SETH RUSSELL: Absolutely.  We were trying to incorporate a lot more in our offense, try to throw some hiccups here and there, and Jordan's been Mr. Consistent.  He's caught everything his way.  He's a guy that comes and hits you in the mouth and he'll just flip and you get a quick ball for about 40.  He's not going to break anything -- he'll break your face probably if he hits you.
But no, he's a great guy.  He's been working hard.  Just all the things we've been doing in preparation, he's been there.  Hasn't complained.  He gets the ball, catches it -- makes sure he looks at it and catches it and does the rest.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT