DIAMOND RESORTS TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 22, 2021
Cole Swindell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. First thing we want to ask you about, and I know you heard the sad news about the passing of Hank Aaron.  We know you're from Georgia.
COLE SWINDELL:   I have not heard that.  When did that --
Q. Yeah, he passed this morning.
COLE SWINDELL:   Oh.
Q. We know you're a Braves fan and you're from Georgia.  We just wanted to hear your thoughts, your sentiment on what he meant to Georgia, the city of Atlanta, the Braves?
COLE SWINDELL:   Yeah, you know, honestly I'm just hearing about it.  I've been out on the course all day.  Crazy thing I was just playing with John Smoltz today.
I've obviously been a Braves fan a long time.  To hear about that, that is absolutely heart breaking.  He is the Braves.  Man, growing up hearing stories about him, I wish I would've had a chance to meet him.  I will always be a big fan.
Q. We wanted to say what a great set it was last night.  How did it feel to perform live for the first time in so long and be out with your band and feel the energy?
COLE SWINDELL:   Yeah, you know, that's a day or a night that I been waiting on.  We had no clue when it would happen.  Last night, just stepping on the stage, I mean, to be honest, it was like the first tee of this tournament.  There were some butterflies.  It had been since March since we had been back.
To be up there with the guys and to see the fans out there enjoying themselves, and for Diamond to be able to set up a venue that's safe for everybody to be able to have a good time, listen to some music was --  you know, I've played a lot shows in my life, but that one will always be special because of the situation and it was the first one back.
Q. When was the last time you guys performed live as band before last night?
COLE SWINDELL:   I think it was early March.  Yeah, first week or two in March we played two shows and they shut down the tours, and we been waiting to get back at it.  I was telling Flaskey how special it was our first show to be back here and getting to play golf with friends.  It's amazing.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT