NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIP
March 20, 2015
Kyven Gadson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   We welcome 197‑pound finalist Kyven Gadson of Iowa State.   We'll start with an opening statement from Kyven talking about tonight's match.   
KYVEN GADSON:   I thought tonight's match went all right.   Not enough offense on my part.  
   
 Q.   You're a senior, and obviously winning this thing has been important to you.   Now that you've gone to the semis and you have an opportunity to finish it off the way you'd like to, just talk about how you felt winning that semifinal match and knowing that you'd have a chance to do that?   
KYVEN GADSON:   I'm just here so I don't get team points deducted (laughing).   I'm just playing.   It felt good.   It was another step in the right direction, moving forward in the NCAA finals.   Tomorrow night is the night to let it hang out, last match.  
   
 Q.   Could you talk about your mindset since this?   That is the only time you lost was against the kid from Nebraska who was really a nobody at that time.   What happened to you after that?   
KYVEN GADSON:   Everybody is a somebody depending on how you look at it.   Didn't show up that day, I guess.   Or maybe he just showed up a little better.   I went back to the drawing board.   Put out that tournament, I was a little banged up, more mentally than anything.   But I think it propelled me to where I'm at right now with the opportunity to win a national title.  
   
 Q.   You were pretty adamant you only wanted to wrestle five matches here this week.   You got that accomplished.   Talk about minimizing that.   
KYVEN GADSON:   Now that I know I'm only going to wrestle five, it's about winning all five.   One less than, yeah, just one less makes me smile.   See that?   No more 199, 198, 197.   That's gone.   No more, except for tomorrow morning.  
   
 Q.   Talk a little bit about this is going to be from the city of Waterloo, an historical town.   A town with a lot of great wrestlers, and you have a chance to become the 13th national champion to come from the city of Waterloo.   Is it a pride thing for you to add your name to that list potentially?   
KYVEN GADSON:   I wouldn't say it's pride.   But I think it's something that I've worked for for a long time.   Put a lot of time, energy, effort, tears, smiles, all that have gone into this.   It's not done yet, but‑‑ yeah, it would be nice.   
Spent a lot of extra practices with my dad.   He's not here to see this, but all that is coming.   It's coming.   I remember I was watching a video of my first practice.   I think he had sent me into a tournament just to see what type of kid I was.   Then we came home and turned on the camera in the living room.   I didn't listen.   I was just hard‑headed.   I wasn't listening to him and he said:   You wasn't laughing when you were getting your butt kicked.   
Then at the end of the video he said this is Kyven's first practice, and we have a long way to go, but we're going to get there.   I think tomorrow night is it, but I've got to finish it.  
   
 Q.   What would your dad say to you now?   
KYVEN GADSON:   Finish it.   You didn't come here to take second.   Finish it.   It's simple.   He didn't say much, but when he said something after sophomore year I started listening to it.  
   
 Q.   Any thoughts about your opponent tomorrow night?   Kyle Snyder, a tough young star.   
KYVEN GADSON:   Yeah, he's tough.   There's not much to say about it.   I'm just going to do what I do.   We've wrestled once.   That match doesn't matter.   It's in the rear view.   What's important is tomorrow night.   That's where you get remembered.   So what's important is tomorrow night.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT