U.S. GIRLS' JUNIOR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 27, 2017
Youngin Chun
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How did you do today?
YOUNGIN CHUN: Well, I did not really good in the morning but really good this afternoon.  Well, in this morning's match, it was like really, really hard because I won like the last hole.  Yeah, but when I turned the ninth hole and I was 2-down, I told myself, I'm losing this match, okay, we're going home.  And then my mom said, no, you can do it, you can do it, and then I made 1-down, square, and then 1-down and then square and then up, so I win this morning's match.
Q. That was this morning; this afternoon what was the difference?
YOUNGIN CHUN: I actually won by 8 up.
Q. You won 8 up?
YOUNGIN CHUN: Yes.
Q. What were you doing, just rolling in a ton of birdies?
YOUNGIN CHUN: Yeah, and then my partner wasn't that really good, kind of --
Q. She struggled?
YOUNGIN CHUN: Yeah.  And I think I played really good, just put it in the fairway, put it on the green.  Sometimes I make a birdie, sometimes I make a par.  It wasn't that hard.
Q. So you feel good about the way you played today?
YOUNGIN CHUN: Yes, so I just practice for tomorrow.  My caddie, when we turned 11th, I was 7 up, and then he said just like, okay, let's go, let me go home, and then I won No. 12 -- 11 by 8 up, so okay, let's go home.  And he said, that's what I'm talking about.
Q. Sometimes when you get a big lead like that, though, it's easy to get relaxed; know what I mean?  How do you keep focused to finish this thing out?
YOUNGIN CHUN: Well, I really like match play because just one time I lose when I played like the whole match, because even if you lose one hole, it's just one hole, and it's gone.  When I lead a lot, just stay under par, don't make a mistake.  But it's a little bit hard to like stay under par, but I really enjoyed this afternoon but it's nice weather, not that hot, nice breeze.  So I just enjoyed this round.
Q. What do you have to do to keep going in this tournament?  What do you have to do tomorrow?
YOUNGIN CHUN: Well, actually my best finish for this tournament is just make the cut when I was 13.  That was my best finish.  And then, well, I really like USGA things.  This is a big tournament.  I really like this tournament, but I'm really, really happy right now for make a lot of match.  So I just want to stay positive for tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT