ROSE BOWL GAME: USC VS PENN STATE
December 29, 2016
DaeSean Hamilton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  The forecast for people back home, sunny and 80 °, man?  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: Yeah, it's been nice out here.   
 Q.  Talk about what that's like when you leave State College, and seeing weather like this?  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: Yeah, coming from the snow, State College, and coming out here, sunny, 80 ° weather all day, and a nice little breeze at nighttime when we're out and about in the city and things like that, it's been really fun.   
 Q.  What are you hearing from people back home as they're following along and people catching up on what you're doing while you're out here?  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: Yeah, people seeing what we've been doing on the social media feeds and stuff like that.  Plus they're three hours ahead.  The time difference is so crazy, they're going to bed by the time we're finished with everything and finally able to have some free time.  But they've been able to keep up with a lot of the stuff we've been doing and seeing all the events we've been at, like Lawry's and going to Disneyland and stuff like that.   
 Q.  Best part so far, and what's on your to-do list still before you head to the Rose Bowl?  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: Best part so far I think was aside from the team events we've been doing, especially last night's dinner -- that was really good -- going out on Melrose Avenue.  I was really excited to do that.  I liked to shop for a little bit.  That was pretty fun.  Seeing Melrose on movies and being out in Hollywood, that was pretty fun.   
 Q.  What's still on your to-do list?  What do you have left to do?  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: To-do list, I want to go back to Hollywood and see the Hollywood Stars and things like that on the sidewalks and stuff like that.  Explore Beverly Hills a little bit more, and that's about it.   
 Q.  What does it mean for Coach Moorhead to be a guy that gets so much attention?  Trace said with team success comes individual recognition, and he's gotten that from some places.  What's that mean to you guys to know that he's so highly regarded in the coaching field?  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: Oh, he doesn't let us know anything different.  We know Coach Moorhead has been a great coach.  He's shown it all season.  He brings that same attitude and same approach every day to practice.  We know we're blessed to have him as an offensive coordinator.  We all know he's a great coach, and we're happy to be playing for him.   
 Q.  Do you worry when reports come out and they say he's looking at that job or not looking at that job?  Do you look at that and worry about it at all?  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: No, we don't look at things like that.  That's obviously Coach Moorhead and his business.  He handles it however he wants to handle it.  Us as players, we just go out and do what we're supposed to do.  We're just happy Coach Moorhead is our coach, and we're taking advantage of all the opportunities we get.   
 Q.  What about you?  Have you given any thought to your next step, whether it be putting into the Draft Advisory Board or anything like that?  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: I've just been really focused on USC.  I haven't necessarily worried about anything that comes after this or taking my mind away from this Rose Bowl game specifically.  But other than that, I've just been focusing on USC.   
 Q.  When you focus on USC, what have you learned about their defense so far?  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: We've learned they're a very fast defense.  They're very physical up front.  They're big D-linemen and things like that.  We've learned that they're going to be a great defense like we played in the Big Ten Championship.  They're all athletic, all-around, very fast in the back end and things like that.  It's going to be a great match-up for us.   
 Q.  You guys are out here.  Is it starting to hit you that you're going to play in the Rose Bowl?  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: Yeah, it hit me a few days ago that we're out here in California.  Our first practice it hit me that we were out here in California, getting ready to play in the Rose Bowl.  It's going to be a pretty special thing.  A lot of guys are cherishing this moment and realizing exactly what this stage is and what we're about to play on.   
 Q.  You guys have been hottest team in the country, nine in a row.  And now you've got almost a month off.  Is that a good thing, bad thing, rest versus rust?  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: We have pretty mature guys on the team that take advantage of it, even when they do have time off, they're staying sharp on anything they need to be, whether it's physically or mentally, watching game film and things like that.  So the month off, yeah, everybody loves time off and things like that, but we're a mature team.  All the guys took advantage of that and didn't use that as a time to necessarily just kick off the shoes and relax.  They still went to work however they see fit.   
 Q.  This pass game has been fantastic the last few weeks.  What do you accredit that to and how do you see that continuing?  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: Really just everybody stepping up and making plays whenever their numbers are called and things like that.  It could be any given person, any given week.  So it's not really anything that you can just credit it to one specific thing.  It's a whole assortment of things.  Guys just being ready when their number is called.  Paying attention to the details every single time they get their number called, things like that.  We have plenty of playmakers and things like that also, so that also helps basically for us to make plays deep down the field and in the pass game.   
 Q.  One of their best defenders is Adoree' Jackson, a Jim Thorpe Award-winning quarterback.  What do you see from him on film, and how much of a challenge is it going to be going up against him?  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: He's very athletic.  He relies on his athleticism, and that's why he's been able to make so many plays throughout the year.  Very fast.  He's not scared of any competition.  That's the type of competition that we like to embrace.  All the receivers are looking for is that match-up, whoever we're lined up across from and things like that.  Really you just see he's a great competitor, he loves the game, and he just goes out there and loves making plays.   
 Q.  These are two great offenses.  Are you ready for a shootout?  Are you looking forward to a potential shootout?  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: If you can keep the least amount of scariness out of the game as possible.  But obviously this is what the Rose Bowl is all about, two great teams going at it, and we're looking forward to it.   
 Q.  You guys are down one of your receivers.  Saeed won't be available for this game.  What is the mentality for the receivers?  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: We just have the next-man-up mentality.  Saeed had been injured a few of the games throughout the year also, so it's not really anything different than we've been approached with and things like that.  So, yeah.  It sucks he's not going to be out there, but we have a lot of guys that can step in for him and go out there and play for him.   
 Q.  Who do you expect to step into that role?  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: An assortment of guys.  We've got DeAndre Thompkins.  Irvin Charles, who will have a bigger role coming into the Rose Bowl game.  Those two guys specifically.  We expect them to go out there and have no drop-off and know exactly what they need to do.  We have the utmost confidence in them.   
 Q.  I know you were talking about the Beef Bowl earlier.  Can you expand on that?  What did you think of dinner last night?  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: That prime rib was actually insane.  It was really good.  And the corn and mashed potatoes on the side, that was really good.  Probably one of the best meals I've ever had.   
 Q.  How much did you eat?  I think there is kind of an informal competition between the teams who eats the most.  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: I ate everything on my plate.  A lot of guys didn't want to finish, but I made sure I ate every bit of it because it was really good.   
 Q.  How much Pac-12 football do you get a chance to watch?  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: We haven't watched too much.  I know we watched a little bit basically when Colorado played Michigan for game planning and things like that.  But I can't really say that I've seen a lot, to be honest.  Maybe catch some of it that comes on TV when we finish with the games and stuff like that.  But other than that, we haven't watched that much.   
 Q.  When the pairings came out and you found out you were playing USC, what did you know about those guys before you got into your study mode?  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: We knew they were a hot team just like us.  They won the last half of the season and things like that.  They're a really good team.  They're a lot like us.  Their offense is very good as well, and their defense has been playing a lot better like ours has in the second half of the season.  So we knew that basically they gave Washington fits.  We were actually able to watch that game, and we saw they were a really good team from that game also.   
 Q.  When you lost Saeed, is it your role as the leader of the wide receiver corps to take maybe Juwan and Irvin aside and say this could be your chance now, let's get going?  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: Yeah, I've been on those guys all season.  Making sure they're ready for the opportunity whenever it comes forth.  But, yeah, this is a perfect opportunity for them to just step in and do what they're capable of.  Like I said earlier, the receivers, all the coaches, we have the utmost faith in them.  For them to be able to step in and go in when the number is called and make the plays that they're supposed to, it's going to show there is no drop-off.  Our depth at the wide receiver position is really talented.   
 Q.  I know you're a confident guy, but the Wisconsin game, how much did that bolster your confidence?  How does that carry over into the bowl game?  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: The Wisconsin game was great.  Obviously, that being a Big Ten Championship and being able to make plays on that stage will boost anybody's confidence.  But being able to do that and make plays for my team, that felt really good.  And for the fact that we were able to come out and get a W at the end of it, it was really special.  It helps with the confidence.  For us to be able to build off that win and bring it over to the Rose Bowl is what we were hoping for.   
 Q.  How could you describe the way you bounced back?  We talk about Pitt a lot.  But bounced back after Pitt and kept that confidence and kept with it as a leader and on-the-field player?  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: Yeah, I accredit that to my teammates and coaches.  They're staying on me every single day in practice.  I just came to work every day as if nothing happened beforehand.  Just having that attitude no matter what happens after that, you're not going to always have instant success after that.  But staying the course, and making sure you're coming in and ready to work every single day, that's really what helped me.  You really see a lot of situations like that, and basically it's just all of it comes down to the individual.  If you're strong minded, you're going to be able to bounce back from something like that.  And I believe that's what I was able to do.  As long as you have a great supporting staff, your family and friends and coaches and things like that, then you'll be able to get through anything.   
 Q.  In your study of USC, what impresses you most about their secondary?  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: They're very fast, very fast and very athletic.  Obviously led by Adoree' Jackson and those type of guys.  But they've been playing well all season.  Adoree's been making plays for them.  Their whole secondary's been able to make plays.  We've seen they're actually very physical, and they love to compete.   
 Q.  DaeSean, Marcus has gotten a lot of mileage out of the second half (indiscernible) was telling me you were actually doing that.  Who came up with that?  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: I'm actually glad you brought that up.  I want this to be known right now that I was the very first person, at least from Penn State, to start that.  You can go on Instagram and see that and see my tagged pictures and stuff like that.  But Marcus took it and ran with it.  I'm not going to say anything.   
 Q.  He's getting a little offended?  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: You can bring him back in here, I promise you, I will tell him I started that.  It was even before Kodak Black and things like that.  I had done it because I'd seen another rapper do it.  But I'll say right now, I was the first person to do that.   
 Q.  What is the point of that, for people like me?  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: For people like me and Marcus in our area, we have this little thing where you wear grills like your front six grills.  So people pull down the lip so you'll be able to see the grill for the pictures and things like that.   
 Q.  The way it's taken off, have you been surprised?  Because after every big win, all you're seeing is grills out there?  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: I mean, I'm not surprised.  People just -- I don't know.  They like to take things the wrong way.  But I guess that's what happens when trends are set and things like that.  All I know is I was the originator of it, and I'm not really worried about it now.   
 Q.  Marcus brings a lot of energy to you guys.  We've seen it time and time again.  Is there an instance that stands out to you in talking to defensive guys that he talks just as much on the field as he does off?  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: Marcus is an energy guy every single day, no matter what.  When we're out there at practice, long days at practice, he keeps the energy up.  He's one of the guys that's like -- he's infectious.  That type of energy rubs off on everybody else.  That's really what our defense has been able to play like because they're an exciting group to watch, led by Marcus and Brandon Bell and Jason Cabinda, and all those guys bringing energy to our team really helps a lot.   
 Q.  James was kind of over the moon about Irv earlier this year saying he was the best receiver he's ever seen.  What can you tell us about Irv?  We've seen a little bit of him.  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: Irv, he's a freak, actually.  I wish I had the body, the build, the speed that he has as a receiver.  But he's probably the most talented guy in our room.  The sky's really the limit for him.  We all tell him, I specifically tell him because I took him under my wing when he got here.  But I tell him specifically he could probably be one of the best receivers in the nation.  All it comes down to is gaining confidence, gaining that experience on the college football forum and things like that.  As long as he believes that and takes that and has a chip on his shoulder while he's doing it, I think he'll be able to accomplish that.   
 Q.  We saw Brandon Polk being out there running around.  He's obviously been on the shelf for the year.  What's the process been like for him?  Has he taken that well?  He's a guy that played right away as a freshman.  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: It's kind of different.  You don't really see guys that play immediately and then red-shirt.  I know it's been hard on him.  I know he's been around still, and it's been a good thing that he's been able to stick around us and hang around the guys so he can have supporting staff around him.  Especially not being able to play this season after having a pretty good season last year.  So seeing him get back out there has been really exciting, and I know he's happy.   
 Q.  Any of Koa's recommendations out here good or worthwhile?  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: Yeah, Koa's recommendations of Roscoe's Chicken and Waffles.  Me, Chris Godwin and Juwan Johnson and Gordon Bentley the other day went there, and it was probably the best food I've had in my life by far.   
 Q.  And that was courtesy of Koa?  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: It kind of was.  I've seen it in movies.  And people talk about go to Roscoe's, go to Roscoe's.  So we wanted to try it out, and it lived up to the standard.   
 Q.  The one in Hollywood by the Palladium?  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: Actually, I'm not sure.  To be honest, I'm pretty sure it was the one in Inglewood because of obviously the surroundings.  But I don't know exactly where we were.  I just know it was really good.   
 Q.  As a receiver, what's it like knowing that Coach Moorhead could dial up a deep ball pretty much any play?  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: It's really exciting to play in his offense.  That's the nature of our offense.  A deep play could happen any moment, any time.  So just always being prepared when your number is called and things like that is really what it all comes down to, and knowing your details, knowing your assignments no matter what.  Guys have been able to step forward and take on their roles and take on their opportunities.   
 Q.  As you've hit the big plays more over the second half of the season, how have you seen secondaries try to adjust?  Has that opened up other parts of the passing game for you?  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: Well, it all starts with teams thinking about taking away Saquon, because essentially they're one of the best running backs in the nation.  So guys trying to take him away opens up the passing lanes for guys like myself, Mike, Chris, DeAndre, Saeed and things like that.  Once that happens, teams are finally caught off balance, they don't know what to do.  Then when we're able to hit them with a run or a pass, and those go for 20, 25 yards, big plays like that, then teams are just caught off guard, and that's when we're finally clicking on all cylinders.   
 Q.  Did you see Adoree' Jackson get the interception against Colorado where he got the one foot down?  As a wide receiver, what do you think when you see that?  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: We always knew, especially when we found out we were playing USC, we knew Adoree' is athletic, and he's a great competitor and loves what he's doing.  Seeing that play, we weren't surprised by it.  We knew he's been making plays like that all season.  Just seeing that adds to his highlight film, to be honest.   
 Q.  What do you think makes Coach Moorhead a great play caller?  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: I think it's his confidence.  He doesn't care what anybody's trying to do to counter him.  He's just confident in what he's doing because he knows what he's doing.  He's been doing it for so long, it's not anything he has to worry about.  Because he's confident in what he's doing, he's confident in his players.  It brings faith to us.  He's so confident in us and never loses faith in us.  For him to call playmakers' names and the numbers, game in and game out, that's what leads to guys being ready for the opportunities and looking forward to making plays for us.   
 Q.  Was there a point where you realized this is going to really work?  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: Really, we were excited for this in the spring.  Installing our offense, not really knowing exactly what it was going to be like in Big Ten play.  But we knew we were going to be able to make plays against our defense, and they were one of the better defenses in the country themselves.  So we were really excited for it.  Knowing all playmakers that we have, all the weapons we have on the offensive side of the ball, we just knew, okay, we can probably make something happen.  It all comes down to making it happen during the season.   
 Q.  Is this the biggest game you've ever played in coming up?  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: Besides the Big Ten Championship, yeah.  Probably the biggest game I've ever been part of.   
 Q.  Do you think this is bigger, or you don't know yet?  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: Yeah, this is by far the biggest game.   
 Q.  Wow, that's pretty good.  Was number two Big Ten?  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: Yeah.   
 Q.  What's number three?  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: Ohio State.   
 Q.  Wow, that's all this season.  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: Yeah, it is.   
 Q.  So what's the number one takeaway, when I say USC defense, what is the number one thing that comes to your mind?  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: Fast, athletic.  I'd say really they swarm around the football.  Confident group of players.  I'd say they're a lot like our defense.  Very athletic in the back end.  Strong, strong front seven, and basically kind of athletic in the front end also.   
 Q.  I'm going back to the first thing.  The three biggest games of your life are this season?  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: Yeah.   
 Q.  Before this season, let me delve into your mind.  I'm trying to figure out where this fits for everybody.  Has everyone -- this is the biggest game everyone's ever played in, right?  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: I'd say so.   
 Q.  I guess that's what I'm trying to get you to tell me.  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: Yeah, I'd say so.  This is probably the biggest game anybody here has played in.   
 Q.  Yeah, because Joe coached in the Fiesta Bowl and Limegrover was a graduate assistant in the Rose Bowl, but no one else has.  So I know you're out here for fun, but does that weigh on you guys at all?  Do you think about that?  I'm not trying to put words in your mouth.  I'm trying to figure out where your mindset is.  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: Obviously, we have to approach this as just another game.  But at the same time, we take this as a great opportunity.  We know what stage we're about to play on.  We know exactly what's right in front of us.  It's all on us for us to go out there and grasp it, to be honest.   
 Q.  Rose Bowl's big.  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: Yeah.   
 Q.  I left a story and a copy of the paper with Rich.  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: Yes, sir, I read it when I was back home.   
 Q.  I got so many compliments about.  Everybody says, is DaeSean a good kid?  And I said, what do you think by reading the story?  But thank you, again.  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: Yeah, I appreciate it.   
 Q.  When Coach Joe was hired, do you remember what you thought?  I'm sure you didn't know much about him.  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: Honestly, I didn't know much about him.  Me and Mike, we actually first talked about it when we found out he was hired and said, oh, I wonder who this guy is.  And then we saw the success he had at Fordham, and then getting to meet him and getting a chance to play with him and things like that, we know why he had so much success at Fordham.  Really just knowing Coach Moorhead personally, we know he brings us confidence, and it rubs off on everybody on the team.   
 Q.  Do you remember your first one-on-one with him?  What was said, and if anything got you excited?  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: Yeah, my first one-on-one with him was really just me going up in his office, introducing myself.  He already had a pretty good background of who I was.  But basically what all the other coaches had said and things like that.  Really had a one-on-one with him, we talked about what offense he was going to bring in here.  We talked about basically what he likes to do, where he would see me fit and things like that.  Essentially, it really was just like a basis of everything.  But other than that, I think it was a pretty good meeting.   
 Q.  Has this surpassed what you expected it to be and what he was saying it would be this soon in the first year?  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: Well, we knew Coach Moorhead was a very confident guy.  He was saying it was going to be the best offense in the Big Ten.  We're going to go out and win a Big Ten Championship.  We're going to be one of the top 5 offenses in the country and things like that.   
And for that to come to play and come to fruition and speaking it into existence, it's been really exciting to see, and at the same time, it's been shocking.  We were like, yeah, everybody wants big goals like that, but we didn't know if we were going to be able to do it.  Finally, once we got into the full swing of things, we saw that, wow, we're able to do this.   
 Q.  When he came out last week, early this week, whatever it was, and made it clear that he was staying for 2017, will that factor into your decision whether to come back to Penn State for another year?  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: Oh, yeah, obviously.  What's at Penn State will always affect what my decision will be and things like that.  But you've got to always weigh pros and cons and every single option, things like that.  But that will be a big factor into it.   
 Q.  I know you said you hadn't made the decision yet.  How soon do you want to make it?  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: I'm not really in a rush to make it.  I just know as long as I'm making the right decision, and no matter when it will be, I just want to make sure I make the right one.  I'm not really worried about when I'm going to make it.  I don't have enough time to.   
 Q.  Do you look at this game as capping this season or springboarding into next season?  How do you look at it?  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: I see it as both, to be honest.  It's been a great season already, and then on top of that we have so much more that we're able to do.  We left a few games out there this past season, so we know for us to be out here and have an 11-win season, that's great and all, but we want to get 12.  We want to get that Rose Bowl win.  We want to get the championship at the Rose Bowl game.   
Then building off of that, being a top 5 team, hopefully having the great ranking they share, and coming back and having a lot of the weapons we do have now, it's going to be very exciting.  It's going to be more exciting than just the beginning of this season.   
 Q.  When you look on film, what do you see from USC defense?  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: They're very athletic.  They swarm around the football.  They're a lot like our defense.  I'd say so.  They're athletic on the back end and big in the front and things like that.  So they've got a lot of playmakers, obviously, and it's going to be a great match-up for us.   
 Q.  Have you been over to the Rose Bowl, drive by it or anything?  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: We've driven by it on the way here, but we haven't been over there yet.  Thanks again for the story.  Appreciate it.   
 Q.  USC's secondary, what do they do best, and where is the weakness you guys think you detect?  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: We've seen that really they're a very strong defensive back field, to be honest, with a lot of playmakers.  Adoree' Jackson being their lead playmaker.  We've seen opportunities like we try to game plan against every other team we've played against.  But other than that, not necessarily anything specific.  At the same time, we know it's going to be a great match-up with our playmakers against theirs.   
 Q.  The way that they kind of set up their front seven, and Trace was talking about how there is a lot of movement on the front four, and you have the quarterback post read and everything like that, do you guys change your offense at all?  How have you guys maybe tweaked it in preparation?  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: It doesn't necessarily change it for any team we're playing against.  We keep the same base things we like to run, and we adjust the base off what teams like to take away, especially when we have the playmakers that we do have, what the tendencies would be against us.  Other than that, we don't really change it, but at the same time, we just know that we have time to make adjustments and things like that, because we have a hurry-up offense, and we're going to put ourselves in the best situation.  Whatever we see the defense is doing.   
 Q.  Sorry if you were asked this earlier, but Saeed's suspension, how does that affect your wide receiver group?  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: It hasn't affected us too much.  Obviously, it's like an emotional blow, because Saeed's one of our brothers and we want him to be out there with us.  But at the same time we've played a few games where DeAndre and Irvin have stepped up and played big roles throughout the season.  So other than that, it's not like anything we're not used to.  It's obviously there is adversity and things like that.  But we know what we have to do.  The guys that are stepping in know what they have to do also.   
 Q.  Have you talked to Saeed at all about it?  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: Yeah, talked to Saeed.  Try to keep his spirits up and things like that.  He's obviously here with us on the trip today like that also.  I hang around him a lot as is, but other than that, keeping his spirits up.  He's taking it pretty hard, but he's doing pretty well.   
 Q.  The biggest impact Joe's had on maybe you guys or maybe even you personally, Coach Moorhead?  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: Coach Moorhead's instilled faith and confidence in all his players.  And that's rubbed off on the whole offense.  Him just keeping the faith on guys on the team.  Basically having the confidence in doing what he's doing, and really not ever wavering from what he's doing and things like that.  That's rubbed off and been infectious because the guys on the team have been carrying the same chip on their shoulders and playing confidently every week.   
 Q.  How do you go from the offense you were last year to this?  It's a whole world of difference.  How does that happen?  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: It goes to basically what Coach Moorhead has brought to the table.  Instilling that confidence in all the guys, and us being able to go out there and play confidently and do all the things we've been able to do this season has helped a lot.   
 Q.  He just blends into the background.  You don't know the guy's even there.  He doesn't seem like a charismatic force of nature or anything.  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: He's pretty charismatic on the football field.  And when it's time for him to be fired up, he knows when to.  In the locker room before games, he loves to get fired up for that also.  But other than that, he's really good at what he does.  He's not really the big rah-rah guy, but when it comes down to it, he's able to get us fired up and do what we need to do.   
 Q.  Do you guys have any thoughts on all the rumors of taking a head coaching job, or is it all the noise?  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: That comes along with anything every single year.  But other than that, we never really pay too much attention to it.  We love Coach Moorhead as our coach, and we're happy he's staying with us in regards to that.  Take advantage of every opportunity that we have with him.  He knows that he loves us also, but other than that, we don't really pay too much attention to it.   
 Q.  Would it be a sense of feeling good for him because obviously getting that attention and he might be able to move on, or we hope he stays, and if he doesn't, good luck to him?  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: We know it's much deserved.  At the end of the day, it's his decision.  But like I said, it has nothing to do with us.  We have no effect on it or things like that.  We just take advantage of what was put in front of us and we're doing what we needed to do on every single play.   
 Q.  What's your favorite moment of the season?  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: Obviously the Ohio State game, that was a crazy moment.  Then winning the Big Ten Championship and seeing guys like Saeed making big plays, Grant and Marcus being able to step up for us yet again.  Other than that, those two by far take the cake.   
 Q.  When did those begin, when the confetti came down?  
DAESEAN HAMILTON: Yeah, when the confetti came down and I held the glass ball, and Trace found me and took a knee.  That's really when it hit us.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT