PENN STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 27, 2015
DaeSean Hamilton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So you didn't roll in on a scooter like Chris Godwin, has he tried to get you to get one of those?
DAESEAN HAMILTON: I come in the old-fashioned way, and those are too much money for me.
Q. After going over and watching the tape, what specifically were some moments of pride for you and the receiving group in terms of separation, 50/50 catches, things like that?
DAESEAN HAMILTON: One of the best moments in the game would be with Gino had the touchdown pass.  He hasn't had that many opportunities, for him to come in and make a big play like that was great for me.  Him getting separation on about a 40 yard pass, was awesome.  He made the best of his opportunities on Saturday.
Q. Like you said with the guys, not getting the opportunities obviously and there's only so many ball kickers that can go around.  How do you keep them upbeat?  Do you keep them positive when you have so many people in your room?
DAESEAN HAMILTON: Yeah, every week you just try and do the things you always do.  Try to keep those guys around and make sure they're not getting too down on themselves.  Or since I didn't get that many opportunities this week, it will be like that for us this season.  It could be any of us having a great game.  As long as they have that mindset, every Saturday they can approach it as one of their better games.
Q. How many passes do you think you've caught lifetime from Christian?  And you guys have a chemistry where you'll see something or done something so many times you both think the same thing without saying it?
DAESEAN HAMILTON: Well, yeah, I can't count how many times I've caught balls.  But us having a that chemistry.  It all started from way before my first season plan, us going out and doing catches individually, and just run be routes and working concepts.  And we can see things and go to the sideline and communicate.  And we can go out and execute on just something that we basically haven't even practiced all week.  As long as we have great communication and we're seeing the same things, on the same page, it works out.
Q. You mentioned after the game it was kind of the most fun you had since the Pinstripe Bowl.  When you watched the film of that game, this past game, what are your thoughts as you were watching and how many times you put it up and made some great plays as a receiver group?
DAESEAN HAMILTON: Yeah, it was fun to watch, especially with so many guys making plays and so many guys being out there and making the most of the opportunities.  It was fun to watch.  Coach was excited for all the guys in the room, so many guys being able to contribute in that game.
Q. Their secondary is pretty stout, like second in the Big 10 in interceptions.  How can you guys attack that secondary?  What do you see from them on film?
DAESEAN HAMILTON: Well, there's not much about them, it's more about us.  A lot of teams in the Big 10 are going to play the same defenses because of the copy cat league.  We execute the game plan, and there's emphasis on the guys to get separation, it's our mindset week in and week out, especially for Saturday.
Q. Seemed the other day you were able to catch one on the move and go with it.  Are you guys getting closer to that where the receiver's catching the ball in stride?  Can you talk about the short passing game a little bit?  Seems like it's been a work in progress getting that going?
DAESEAN HAMILTON: Yeah, because it's been basically all season where you'll have trouble throwing the ball because of the weather conditions or guys pressing on the outside.  We'd rather go over the top.  The short game isn't always the best option, especially with teams that play the same type of defenses in The Big Ten.  Yeah, us getting routes on the move, getting open and space, it helps a lot.  It gives us free access later on down the game.
Q. Also curious, you don't wear your glasses while you're playing?
DAESEAN HAMILTON: No.
Q. Do you have contact lenses?
DAESEAN HAMILTON: Yeah, I have contact lenses, yeah.
Q. One summer practice, one summer work out with Christian, how many balls do you think you'll catch?
DAESEAN HAMILTON: Depends on how many guys are out there, but on average I'd say probably over a hundred, a hundred to two hundred catches, out there for about two hours, two and a half hours, doing routes and running specific concepts.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT