IOWA STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 19, 2019
Brock Purdy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Iowa State - 34, Texas Tech - 24   
BROCK PURDY: It was huge, especially being on the road, coming to a place like this. It's their homecoming. It was a good crowd, whatever. But to have those guys make plays early on in the game and create momentum for us was huge. Props to them. They've been working hard at practice and everything, and it paid off.   
 Q.  What did you see from Breece and his ability, especially at critical moments, to give you guys a little bit of a jolt?  
BROCK PURDY: Yeah, Breece, man, he's just electric. He runs hard. He has great vision and everything, and you know, when I hand the ball off to him, man, he makes things happen, especially sometimes it's not there, he makes a play out of it, sort of like what you saw from David the past couple years. So we're starting to see that from him, and he's just getting comfortable with the O-line, the O-line trusting him, so just being able to hand the ball off and get chunks of yards is nice as a quarterback.   
 Q.  You took more shots down the field, especially in the first half. Was that something you saw early in the game or during the week during prep?  
BROCK PURDY: Yeah. They ran everything that we expected coming into the game coverage-wise, and so when I saw like we had a mismatch on the outside or whatever with their DBs, I wasn't going to hold anything back, so that's what you guys saw shots down the field and whatnot, and I felt like our receivers did a great job of going up and getting it. There was a couple PI calls early on in the game, but yeah, we expected that kind of stuff.   
 Q.  When you had that option pitch to Breece I think in the third quarter and he took off 75 yards for the touchdown, what are you kind of expecting out of that play? I've got to imagine not something that big.  
BROCK PURDY: Yeah, again, man, whenever Breece touches the ball, especially when everyone is blocking and makes blocks, Breece can do amazing things. To be able to stiff arm a guy and stay inbounds and take off like that was special. Again, as a quarterback, knowing that I don't have to make all the plays with my legs, I can get it to Breece and be confident in him helps me out, helps the receivers get open, too, and the passing game going. It was huge; Breece had another amazing game. I'm proud of him.   
 Q.  You had a rough first three quarters in Waco, and that fourth quarter and the first quarter here were kind of off the charts. How do you describe how things kind of changed, the feel you have in the game, or how do you describe how things changed like that?  
BROCK PURDY: Yeah, that was really an emphasis at practice because even at West Virginia, we started off slow and then sort of had to get things going in the second half, so right from the get-go, Coach was like, yo, let's go, let's get going from the first quarter, the first drive and not hold anything back. We did that I felt like today, did a great job of that. Still, the second half we came out and played around a little bit too much I feel like in some certain situations. We've just got to put both first and second half together, and we'll be good.   
 Q.  That was one of the things Coach Campbell even -- for as much as you guys did well today on both sides of the ball, he kind of emphasized that it wasn't perfect. What does that say about what this team can still accomplish when you do put more together?  
BROCK PURDY: Yeah, I think we still have a lot to look forward to the next couple of days on perfecting our craft individually, offense and defense, special teams, and like today we weren't clicking second half, for example. If we can get that going, then man, we could do things that have never really been done here before at Iowa State. If we get going on that, man, it'll be special, so I'm excited.   
 Q.  What kind of trust do you have in Charlie Kolar in creating mismatches and being able to come out and make a big play whenever you need it, in a 3rd-and-long type situation?  
BROCK PURDY: Yeah, he's reliable. He runs great routes. He's a big body against DBs, and even linebackers he still has a couple more inches on them and he has great hands, so he's just a reliable target, where if it's 3rd and short or 3rd and long even, he's a great mismatch, and I trust in him, and I know he's always going to be there.   
 Q.  You're coming up against Oklahoma State, kind of where it all started for you. What have you learned about yourself between Oklahoma State games?  
BROCK PURDY: Yeah, I mean, a lot has happened. I feel like I've been through a lot, certain situations, games on the line, games are on the line, we're trying to put games away. I've been through a lot of like emotions in games in certain situations, so I feel like everything that we see now I've been through, so going into this game against Oklahoma State next week, I just know I've been through a lot of it, and whatever comes our way, I'm confident in the O-line, the receivers and the whole team as a whole. Just having confidence in my brothers, my coaches, I feel like my confidence level is through the roof now, being in this system for a year now.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT