NBA DRAFT
June 25, 2009
Austin Daye
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Congratulations, I wanted to ask you, there's been questions about your toughness, so talk about things that you have to prove as well as the work you have to put in to be able to bang inside and not just be dependent on the outside game. 
 AUSTIN DAYE: Well, first off, toughness, I think I'm going to a team that's very tough and a lot is going to be asked of me and I wouldn't have been drafted unless they thought I was a tough kid because it's a tough town to play in front of. 

 Q. I know you're looking forward to summer this year because all of that cap room Detroit has; tell us how you're looking forward to playing with players like that?
 AUSTIN DAYE: Yeah, star players and great players, and I would love to play with any of those guys, they are great talent. I'm just happy to be a Detroit Piston. 

 Q. Just tell us the benefits of having a dad that played in the league. 
 AUSTIN DAYE: I was able to be a sponge growing up, absorb all the things that he said. He's been a great mentor and he's definitely the person I looked up to the most. 

 Q. Detroit is not the Detroit I remember growing up, General Motors obviously fighting to survive and Chrysler in the same position. When you're playing for a basketball team in obviously a town that's going through some very difficult economic times, does it put more pressure on you guys as entertainers to get people's minds off of their troubles? 
 AUSTIN DAYE: Yes and no. I think that the Detroit area will definitely come through. But also I think as entertainers, as basketball players, we definitely have to do something to uplift the fans spirits, and I think that's something that we can do.

 Q. Tayshaun, how can he help you? 
 AUSTIN DAYE: Tayshaun being on that team, I'm definitely going to ask him lots of questions, things I can do.
 As you can see, he's maybe a frail guy, but he's played six straight years without missing a game. So he's definitely tough, so I'm definitely going to have to listen to him and get some advice.

 Q. Tell me about the Gonzaga program and the legacy going on, just talk about how special is it to contribute to that?
 AUSTIN DAYE: It was a special experience over there. I was very fortunate. I picked the right school. I definitely think that that program is definitely on the up rise there. I definitely would look for them to be in the Final Four very soon.

 Q. Have you been in touch with Adam Morrison at all? He was associated with Gonzaga basketball. He's had a tough NBA career. What has he told you? 
 AUSTIN DAYE: I haven't talked to Adam a lot. He's in L.A.. I definitely talk to Roy, a lot, he's one of my older brothers, I would say. He's a tough guy and I definitely like to work out with him in the off-season, which is right now for him. I just hope all is well over there in Golden State for him. 

 Q. Long time since Draft lottery, from there to here. Where do you think you would go?
 AUSTIN DAYE: I was confident in myself. I felt the way I played in the combine and also the workouts, I thought I could go in the Top 15. That's why I put my name in the Draft. I wouldn't have otherwise. 

 Q. With Tayshaun Prince and you having such similar body styles, is that a role model for you to follow?
 AUSTIN DAYE: Definitely, he's from the L.A. area, kind of the same things. He's definitely someone I'm going to ask a lot of questions and be a sponge and soak up whatever information he can give me. 

 Q. Have you talked to Rodney?
 AUSTIN DAYE: No, I haven't talked to Rodney. I saw him I think my junior year in high school, and he was definitely doing very well for himself over in Eastern Washington. He's a good player. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT