KIA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY J GOLF
March 26, 2010
Vicky Hurst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   HEATHER DALY-DONOFRIO: Welcome, Vicky, and congratulations on a great 4-under par round. Can you talk about how you felt out there and about your game?   
 VICKY HURST: Yeah. Today I started out really good with two birdies right off the bat and on the first hole hit a 5-iron to about 3 feet, so the I started out with good tempo and just relaxed, and I think that led to a good day.   
  
  Q. You were a rookie last year. How did the experience from your rookie year help you prepare for your second year on Tour? Is there a difference in how you're approaching the year and how you feel about yourself and your game?   
 VICKY HURST: Yeah, definitely. I think last year I didn't know what to expect, especially starting out, and I am much more experienced now with not only my golf game but just golf management and managing my time and work ethic out here.   
 I think Monday through Wednesday I think I did a good job of getting to the course, getting my work in and doing what I needed to do and then going back and relaxing.   
  
  Q. Did you do anything particularly in the off-season as far as your game or your fitness is involved to get yourself ready?   
 VICKY HURST: Pretty much the same thing I've done the last year or so, when I'm home, work out every day, or five times a week, and getting out there and practicing, just working on my game and making sure everything is good and ready to go for the start of the season.   
  
  Q. How much easier was it playing under the morning conditions than in the afternoon?   
 VICKY HURST: Well, yesterday the greens were bumpy because of the PO Ana, and starting out there was no wind, and I think that helped a lot. I could dial down on my distances and hit it close. But now with the rest of the afternoon to go I think there is a lot of good players who are ready to go low.   
  
  Q. How much more confidence does it bring in when you start out with a big approach shot like that?   
 VICKY HURST: I just try to keep my tempo relaxed and even and not get too excited or too -- I don't want the -- I don't want to get too excited if I hit a good shot or bad shot. I want to stay even keel and keep my tempo with the way I walk and play golf even throughout the day.   
  
  Q. I think you won five times on the Futures Tour; is that right?   
 VICKY HURST: Yep, that's right.   
  
  Q. How much will you lean on that in this Tour? There is greater depth out here, but is that something you can rely on?   
 VICKY HURST: Yeah, I think the Futures Tour gave me a lot of experience with professional golfers and getting that competition play under my belt, and I think winning five times on that Tour got me confident starting out strong, and I think this year, last year and from one year on the Futures Tour I'm much more confident coming into this year, so I'm looking forward to a strong season.   
 HEATHER DALY-DONOFRIO: Thank you, Vicky.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT