LPGA CORNING CLASSIC
May 23, 2009
Vicky Hurst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MIKE SCANLAN: All right, Vicky. A great round, 9-under par today. One shot shy of the tournament record. You're the reigning Duramed Futures Tour Player and Rookie of the Year now in your rookie season on the LPGA. If you would, just talk about your day and being in the hunt to potentially get your first victory tomorrow. 
 VICKY HURST: Well, I think coming into today, it was just like anything else. I just tried to stay focused, and I wasn't thinking about shooting a certain score. I wasn't even thinking about making my way up on top of the leaderboard. I kind of just focused on my game and the shots that I was hitting, and whatever happens happens, and keep looking to the next shot.
 My stroke today was just really smooth and silky, and I made some putts and hit some good shots. And I think the biggest thing was that I was very, very focused going into the 18th hole, and then I think that's why I made so many birdies because I wasn't thinking about anything, just like the next shot.
 MIKE SCANLAN: Questions? 

 Q. Were you aware at all that you were approaching a tournament record for low round?
 VICKY HURST: No. I wasn't -- no, I didn't know what the tournament record was. 

 Q. You just knew you were having a good round. 
 VICKY HURST: Yeah. I knew I was having a good round and that I was up on the leaderboard somewhere. 
 But I think I was just really kind of worrying about -- not worrying, but like looking towards the next hole and not thinking about the birdies I had, or what might happen, just you know, what's happening now. 

 Q. I heard you mention in a TV interview that you were having fun out there today. Was it the scores that allowed you to have fun or was it the fun that allowed you to shoot low scores?
 VICKY HURST: I think both. It's always fun to shoot low, but on top of that I was having fun any ways, so I was shooting low. (Laughs). Does that make any sense? 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Yeah. 

 Q. So I guess coming into tomorrow you've suddenly put yourself in a position where you're going to be considered a contender. So will that change your outlook? It sounds like you came in happy go lucky and let's go play golf. 
 VICKY HURST: Yeah. 

 Q. Are you going to try to maintain that attitude?
 VICKY HURST: Yeah. Today I really felt like I was just playing golf, and you know, I didn't really think about what I was shooting or where I was on the leaderboard or you know, the media or the fans or anything like that. I just really felt like I was playing golf and enjoying the day. And so I think tomorrow I'm just going to really stay -- try to stay calm and relaxed and just take it like another day, and you know, start over. 

 Q. I know you've got a lot of other things on your mind, but does the fact that this is the final tomorrow, will be the final round of the Corning Classic mean anything special to you, or to any of the golfers? Is it talked about at all?
 VICKY HURST: Yeah. You know, this especially being the last tournament here this year, and this is my first time here, so I don't really know much of the history of this event, but you know, it means so much to so many players, and it would be really, really cool if I finished well here and to finish off this great event. 

 Q. Vicky, you said on 18 you might have got caught up in the moment. Is that when you started to think about your score?
 VICKY HURST: A little bit. You know, it's so hard to -- it's so easy to think about that. And I try to not think about any of that, but that's easier said than done to not think about what's going on. So yeah, I was trying to hit it too close, like I was just trying to hit the shot instead of just hitting it like I was all day. So I think that's why I pulled it. 

 Q. Get good yardages from your caddie today?
 VICKY HURST: Yep. My mom was my caddie. She always gives me good yardages. 

 Q. What's her name?
 VICKY HURST: Koko.

 Q. So she can keep the job?
 VICKY HURST: Yes. She'll be on the bag tomorrow. 

 Q. How does this round rank as far as low rounds in your career?
 VICKY HURST: 63. This is the best I think I've shot. I shot two 64s last year on the Futures Tour, but I mean this is LPGA, and it's a huge event, so I think it's more rewarding knowing that, yes. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Anything else? Vicky, thanks so much, and great playing today. 
 VICKY HURST: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT