U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 8, 2012
Vicky Hurst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk a little bit about your round today and what you thought about how you played.   
VICKY HURST:   I mean it was tough out there today for me.   Missed a couple of putts coming in, but I mean I had a great week, played really well.  
   
 Q.   Tough conditions today versus the first three days.   Is it what you expected from the final round of the U.S. Women's Open?  
VICKY HURST:   I mean it wasn't as bad as yesterday.   I was just hitting it so well and putting it so well that I scored better.  
Today it was tough because it was Sunday and you want to make as many birdies as you can and I think maybe I got a little frustrated.   I wasn't coming out with birdies and stuff.   But I mean with a U.S. Open you just gotta keep making pars and that's what it's all about and I got a little bit frustrated out there.  
   
 Q.   With somebody that has a big lead like she does, do you play any differently your game?  
VICKY HURST:   No, not really.   I mean whatever happens happens.   Whoever shoots, you know, 6‑under is going to play well, but I mean I pretty much stuck to my game plan.   It was a little frustrating today because I couldn't get anything ‑‑ any birdies going or down the stretch got a little tough, but I mean yeah, I pretty much stuck to my game plan.  
   
 Q.   You have another close call at a major.   What do you take away from it and think maybe what's missing to close out and get a win at a major?  
VICKY HURST:   I think just experience is huge for.   I had a great week being at the top of the leaderboard for a couple times this week, and learning to stay patient all the way till the very end, and I might be a little young and need to get that experience under my belt so I can really just know how to handle being under that pressure.   So a lot of positives come out of this week.   I putted really well all week.   
   
 Q.   Do people kind of associate you for a while with just futures tour dominance.   What's the difference?   Do you still feel like you're getting your feet wet out here?  
VICKY HURST:   Yeah, this is my fourth year, so I feel like my feet are wet and I'm ready to go.   But it's a tough tour, you know, for anybody, even for the experienced ones, and you know, I mean they're the best in the world, so I just gotta learn how to act the best and prepare like the best.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT