U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 7, 2012
Vicky Hurst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You probably lost a few more than you wanted to today, but you're still hanging in there.   Can you give us an assessment of your round, please?  
VICKY HURST:   I mean the conditions were a lot tougher.   There was a lot more wind.   But I think I played really well.   I grinded it out today pretty much till the very end and made more par saves than I can think of.   
So my putting is good going into Sunday.   I just want to work on a couple of things on the range to get myself back in the middle of the fairway, middle of the green and keep putting well and actually play well again tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   What do you think about the Back 9 finish?   Is that about as difficult as you've seen at a Women's Open?  
VICKY HURST:   I think all 18 holes are difficult.   The front nine beginning is difficult, too.   But it's such a great course and there's no real breaks in there where easy pars, there's none of those out there.  
I'm proud of myself of staying with it, you know, all 18 holes.  
   
 Q.   With our leader so far ahead what does that do to your mindset tomorrow, do you just grind it out and see what you can get or how do you approach it for tomorrow?  
VICKY HURST:   Same mindset.   Same game plan.   I'm playing pretty good, hitting the ball great, putting it well, so just get myself out there and give myself birdie opportunities and go low if I can.  
   
 Q.   This week you said being aggressive is something you like to do.   You've gotta be in position to do it from the fairway.   So you probably will have that mindset tomorrow if you do get in the fairway.   Is that a good assessment?  
VICKY HURST:   Yeah.   I'm going to stay aggressive, play smart.   I'm not going to get tempted, though.   I'm not going to go for ridiculous pins or anything like that.   I think just playing smart and aggressive is the way to go tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   As a player who's aggressive, once you make a couple of birdies, do you have to kind of hold yourself back from not getting too aggressive because you feel like you're on a roll?  
VICKY HURST:   Yeah, sometimes going into the weekend you get a little tempted to go at those pins and get yourself up on the leaderboard.   But yeah since I'm a more aggressive player I think tomorrow I'm going to stick with my game plan and play smart.  
   
 Q.   The low low scores are really rare.   So in reality, how much do you think she's gotta back up her score?  
VICKY HURST:   She's so strong mentally, so I think tomorrow I'm just going to play my game, but I know she's going to play well, and she's totally capable of shooting another low score.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT