U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 6, 2012
Vicky Hurst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about your start on the round?   You got off to a pretty hot start with an eagle on 2.   
VICKY HURST:   Yeah.   No. 2 I think it was I hit it into I was about 250 yards out, put it to like 14 feet and made it for eagle.   It was a good start.   Followed up with a birdie as well, and I was pretty hot right off the bat, and played pretty steady throughout the middle of the round, and then I had a couple bogeys coming in, but overall very happy with my round.  
   
 Q.   Do you know how many putts you had today?  
VICKY HURST:   I have no idea.   I have to go back and check.  
   
 Q.   I understand you've kind of been working on your putting?   Can you talk about what you've been doing with your stroke?  
VICKY HURST:   Yeah, I've been working a little bit out here especially with the speed, so I'm very happy with how my work has paid off, and I'm really just my lag putting has really improved from last week, and going into this weekend is still what I'm going to focus on.  
   
 Q.   You're very close to the lead.   What does that do to your mindset for the weekend?  
VICKY HURST:   I'm going to stay with the same game plan, same mindset.   Very steady.   I've been hitting the ball great, chipping and putting it really well.   So my game plan isn't going to change.   It's going to pretty much stay the same and stay aggressive going into the weekend.  
   
 Q.   Is that normally your M.O., to be aggressive if you can be?  
VICKY HURST:   Yeah.   When I'm playing well, when I'm hitting it well, stay aggressive and not play too conservative just because I'm close to the lead.   I mean it's the Open, so go out there and give it all I have.  
   
 Q.   Do you try to use your length to your advantage here?  
VICKY HURST:   Yeah.   It's a long course.   They've shortened up a couple of tees but it's still a long course and taking advantage of having a driver in my hands.  
   
 Q.   I'm not sure many people know about your story.   Can you talk about growing up as the daughter of a Korean mom who loved to play golf, and this being the tournament where Se Ri Pak kind of opened the doors for that, for the Korean players, what's it like playing here and growing up with that background?  
VICKY HURST:   Well, you're very right.   You're very true.   Se Ri Pak was one of my idols growing up and she won here and I think I remember watching her play, and I mean she's one of the main reasons why I started in golf, and my parents got me into it because of her.   And you know, she's out here this week.   I'm not sure how she's playing, but it feels pretty good to be playing well on the course she won at.  
   
 Q.   Is it true that your mother was playing golf when her water broke to give birth to you?  
VICKY HURST:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about that story a little bit or what you've heard about that story?  
VICKY HURST:   Well, (laughs) I was there.   Let's see.   Yeah, she was playing in and ruse Air Force base and her water broke on the 16th hole.   And I was born a couple of hours later.   
   
 Q.   Born into golf.   
VICKY HURST:   Yeah.   I guess.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel more prepared after you spent a lot of time at the top of the leaderboard at the Kraft?  
VICKY HURST:   Yeah, it has.   Playing well at the Kraft especially going into Sunday and playing well, being at the top of a leaderboard at a major, I am feeling a little more comfortable being at the top of a leaderboard, and going into the weekend, I mean pretty much going to stay with my game plan, not pay too much attention, but just focus on the shots that I have ahead.  
   
 Q.   Does a 66 surprise you out there today?   I think that's what Michelle Wie finished with.   
VICKY HURST:   No.   It doesn't surprise me.   It's a great score out here.   I think it's probably going to be one of the best out here today.   The greens were pretty receptive.   The course was playing tough, but I think with these great players out here playing, it doesn't surprise me.   
   
 Q.   Just what are your thoughts, it's such an international game now over the last ten years.   Does that make it so much tougher to be at the top of the leaderboard with so much talent from so many different countries after two days do you see it's becoming more and more difficult every year?  
VICKY HURST:   Yeah.   We've got so many great players out here from all over the world and to be at the top of the leaderboard of any tournament on this tour is tough, so I'm very happy with how I played and I'm very positive going into the weekend.  
   
 Q.   Again, being at the top of a leaderboard at a major and say, whoa, or are you just kind of keeping your even keel that it seems like you have?  
VICKY HURST:   I'm staying pretty steady out there, but I have to pretty much take it all in when I'm walking up 18 and seeing myself at the top of the leaderboard.   It's really cool, especially this being the Women's Open.  
   
 Q.   The course a lot of people made a big deal out of the 6900 yards being 500 yards longer than last time you came through.   Is it playing every bit of that 6900 yards and what's it like hitting those longer clubs into the par‑4s?  
VICKY HURST:   Yeah.   It is very long, and this is probably one of the longest courses we're going to play all year.   It's a tough track, but it's such a good course that if you're playing well, you know, it's going to show and there's a 66 out there today, and I played pretty well as well, and finished at 2‑under.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT