THE NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 26, 2000
Barb Trammell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BARB TRAMMELL: We actually received a call from the TV compound, I believe when the
final group was on the 15th hole. They asked us to go down and look at the tape because
they saw something that they didn't know, but might be a rules violation. And what had
happened is on the 14th green, Aree had addressed her ball on the putting green, the ball
then subsequently moved. It was hard to tell whether or not she nudged it with her putter
in her forward press; might be one reason, but she had definitely addressed it. The ball
moved forward, maybe an eighth of an inch, and then she putted from that position, which
is a violation of rule 18-2B, ball moving after address. Had she noticed that the ball had
moved and replaced the ball, she would have incurred a one-stroke penalty, but because
Aree didn't even know the ball moved, because she did not know that, obviously the ball
was not replaced; it was played from a wrong position, which is a breach of ruling 18-2B.
So she incurred the general penalty of two strokes on that hole. We met Aree in the
scoring tent, obviously, before she signed her card, let her know what we had seen,
offered her the opportunity to view the tape if she wished, which she did. She and her
coach went down to the truck with us and she totally agreed and saw that the ball did, in
fact, move. We showed the angle -- the wide-angle photo did show that Aree was looking at
the hole at the time the ball actually moved; so she had no knowledge of the ball's
movement. But she did see that, and did acknowledge and incurred the two-stroke penalty on
hole 14.

Q. (Inaudible)?

BARB TRAMMELL: Very good. She was matter of fact. She understood the rule, but had no
knowledge, obviously, that it had moved. If it had, she obviously would have called for a
ruling at the time, and just had no knowledge that that even happened, but she was a very
good sport about it. I must say, very mature for a 13-year-old.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT