SENIOR BRITISH OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 21, 2005
Joe Inman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  I don't know if it was the most bizarre hole, but it had to be one of them.  What happened there?
JOE INMAN:  Well, my four hole stretch of 8, 5, 8, 10, pretty well, you know, I parred the first three and then went 2, 6.  So I played a four hole stretch how many over was that?  I lost track.
Q.  13, I believe.
JOE INMAN:  And I shot 14 for the day.  So I played    I just didn't play bad.  The thing about this course is, when you hit it off the fairway, you can't get it back on    there is no place to hit the ball.  There is no place to hit it.  I tried to lay up.  I couldn't get it back in the fairway.  I mean, you know, then I would get it in the fairway and it would roll through on to the other side, into the crap over there.  I mean I just, I couldn't play.
Q.  So then explain the 1 under on the back nine.
JOE INMAN:  Well, the back nine's right to left.  I'm a fader.  You see, you put me out there in a right to left wind.  It went a hundred yards to the right.  But when I hit it low or pulled it, it didn't go.

17, I hung it, I mean hanging on the lip and 18 is breaks right across the hole and lips out.  I mean, I could have shot nothing on the back.  I played well on the back.  I just    guys, you can't hit it back on the fairway.  You can't get it.  I tried to get it back on there and I couldn't do it.
Q.  So anyway, on the back side, the wind was different and
JOE INMAN:  Right to left.  And I'm a cutter.  So it just held my cut right there in the fairway and, I mean, I was in play every hole.  I hit it in the bunker on one hole and blasted out into the fairway and then hit it 12 feet and made it.  Other than that, I had it right around    I mean I could have birdied a lot of holes.  I birdied 10, but I hit it 12 feet at 11, missed it.

I 3 putted the par 5.  I got it me to him on the par 5, I'm on the fringe, but it's downwind, downhill and I'm scared, this ball could roll right off the damn green.  And I leave it four and a half, five feet short.  Now I'm going straight down hill, downwind.  You know, you just touch it, and it, I mean, I 3 putted that hole.  I could have birdied.

I hit almost every green.  I hung it on the lip on 17.

I hit a good shot into 18, and almost    and lipped it out at 18.  That left to right wind into you, when you get it going left to right it goes like this (Indicating) when you start aiming too far left and then don't get it, now you get to swinging too fast and all of a sudden your covering it up.
Q.  For the record, do you want to run through the stretch of how you made
JOE INMAN:  Well, it's really, I forget the holes.  Now let's see, which one is the fourth hole?  I hit it    now I'm even par.  Parred the first three.  And four's a tough, 450, into the wind.  And I hit it left, but I didn't hit it way left and I got it, it's unplayable.  I can't hit it.  I'm from me to there and that far from being in play, but I can't hit it.

So I drop it on grass that's been trampled down and I think I'm going to get a lie and I thought I got a good enough lie, took out a pitching wedge, and didn't get out.  It got further on down there.  And then I take out an L wedge, just get it in the fairway.  And it goes down into this dip and then rolls to the right on a bank.  I can't hit it.  So I try to hit it and it gets in the fairway and I hit it up on the green and I 2 putt.  That's 8.

Then the next hole I made five.  I missed a four footer, which, you know, everybody does.

Now we come to the par 5.  I hit it to the right.  I chop it out, down into the fairway there.  But now I'm standing, my feet six inches above the ball, and I'm trying to, wind's hard left to right and I'm trying to just lay it up.  And I got it up in the air and it blew a hundred yards to the right.  It went so far to the right.  Don't think I can find it.  I hit another one.  Because I thought it was    I tell you how unplayable, how sloped the lie was, when I dropped it, provisional ball, it rolled almost two club lengths is how much    the reason it stopped there was I was coming from the other side of the fairway and it goes like this and stops there.  When I dropped it, it rolled out almost    I had to measure to see if it was inside two club lengths.  So then I hit it on up there in play.

Well, I get up there, we find it.  All right.  So I chop it out    I could play it.  So I thought I could play it.  And I swung as hard as I could and I moved it from me to that sign.  So now I got a hundred yards.  And I'm into a wind like this.  I'm hitting from a hundred yards, so I'm just going to chip an 8 iron, because if you get it too high, see, and now it's out of the grass, oh, gone.  I mean, it just goes right over the green.  I blasted back, 12 feet.  Hit a good putt, miss it.  8.

Now the next hole I lit it left.  Now the next hole is into the wind, left to right.  All carry.
Q.  That's the 7th hole?
JOE INMAN:  7th hole.  Long carry out to the fairway.  I pull it.  We lose it.  I go back to the tee.  Pull it again.  But my caddie's standing right there, right, and so we find it.  He, we wouldn't have found it.  Unplayable.  I drop it.  So I think I can get it out.  So I can get it out over into the right hand side of the fairway.  Now I got 142.  So I take 6 iron.  I'm going to just bump a little 6 iron.  It goes like this (Indicating) into the bunker.  Blast out.  Eat a face full of sand.  Putted up like this.  Okay.  I'll finish.  Okay, what I meant was I'll finish this one.  I mean, you know, the wind just blew it.  And I missed, I 3 putted from 12 feet.  I made 10.  Well, then the next hole, they both made bogey and I hit it 10 feet and made birdie.

And then 9 I hit it, there again it goes to the right and I'm standing there, I'm in play, I got some grass, but I'm thinking    the thing about this course is when you can't go at the green from just in front of the green back a 150 yards there's nothing.  There's moguls and shit, there's no place to hit the ball.  So I hit it over there.  Well, now I think I'm all right, I got grass but I'm 110, 120 or 130 or so, I can't remember.  I hit an 8 iron out, it lands over the bunker, okay.  I get up there, got there and it's in grass up to my ass.  I mean I got to swing as hard as I can just to get to carry the ball from me to that white line, I have to swing as hard as I can.  So I got it on the green and then I lipped it out and made six.

And I didn't even, I wasn't even    I told my wife, I have never, as a pro, ever made a double figure on a hole.  And I've done it twice this year.  And I mean, I guess it shows that I was trying, I shot 1 under.  I mean, I was trying as hard as I could try to just get it back in play.  I couldn't get the ball back in play.  When you get it in the light rough, okay.  But you get it in that deep stuff, I'm just not strong enough.
Q.  All right.  So at the end of the day, now that you shot what you shot
JOE INMAN:  Oh, I can still make the cut.  I don't know that I will.  But I mean, it's certainly, I mean the cut is nine over or eight or nine over.  So if you have wind like this, you double, you basically double it, because everybody's got bullet holes in them.  So they're not going to be playing as well tomorrow.  I mean, if it calms down then the scores will go down, so you have to wait and see what the conditions are.  But I'm certainly not out of making the cut.  Somebody at 14 over can make the cut.  Now I don't know if it will be me, but there will be 12 and 13 make the cut if they shoot even par tomorrow.  If I shoot even par tomorrow, I make the cut.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT