SAN DIEGO STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 15, 2019
Dwayne Johnson, Jr.
Luq Barcoo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
SDSU 17   
Fresno 7   
 Q.  Why didn't you get that trophy?  
DWAYNE JOHNSON, JR.: It's been gone too long, so it felt great to get it back.   
 Q.  You got your second multi-interception game. Is there a part of you that's, wow, I'm getting that many picks?  
LUQ BARCOO: I try not to think about it too much. Long season, a couple more games left, so I'm just trying to play my best until then but it is great knowing that I'm making plays to help the team win, so I look forward to getting more and helping the team win a championship.   
 Q.  You've been so consistent especially against other teams run games. What was it like to see the offense find success, especially in the passing game? What was it like to see the offense contribute the way it did tonight?  
LUQ BARCOO: It's a great feeling knowing that the offense is going to do the best job they can to help us win. So just us putting them in situations to succeed is a great feeling, and them going out and capitalizing and making play s is a great feeling for us as a team and everybody being on the same page, so it's cool to have them functioning properly moving forward.   
 Q.  You got a couple picks obviously and Tariq got that one. What does it say about the secondary in particular, what you guys did well tonight?  
LUQ BARCOO: It just says that we are all looking to make plays. We all want an opportunity to pick the ball off, so we actually kind of like make it like a competition of us getting plays, so it's kind of cool to see those guys make those plays, as well, so it's good for us to be on the same page as well.   
 Q.  You almost had that one -- what are your thoughts on missing that one?  
DWAYNE JOHNSON, JR.: I've dropped three. I've got to get one. I've got to get one. I'm in last place right now, so it's a big part.   
Like you said, we are all just trying to make plays to help us win. I'm going to get mine soon.   
 Q.  How important was it to the team, last year you started 7-2, and then things kind of unraveled down the stretch. Same position this year and how important was it tonight to change the script and make sure that didn't happen again?  
LUQ BARCOO: It was extremely important. Coach put emphasis on not repeating history and last year we did start off 7-1, I believe and lost -- pretty much lost from here on out. It's good to change that and go in a different direction than we did last year. It shows our team has gotten a lot more smart and mentally compatible. It's good to overcome that and change that.   
 Q.  What can you say about the offense? Agnew is the first 300-yard passer in five years, Matthews, eight catches, 119. What can you say about those?  
DWAYNE JOHNSON, JR.: That was his first one throwing 300? I feel like he came close a couple times.   
I mean, but that's big, though. Offense played crazy to night. That's something we need and I'm happy they did that tonight. We're looking forward to keeping it rolling and them keep doing that. That's huge.   
 Q.  What about Jesse -- what's it like to see him as a redshirt freshman see the numbers he put up?  
LUQ BARCOO: It's not surprising at all. Jesse has some of the best potential on the team as a receiver. I have a lot of confidence in Jesse, just waiting for him an opportunity to do it and it finally happened. It's good to see him do that. FastScripts by ASAP Sports ...   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT