SAN DIEGO STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 9, 2019
Ryan Agnew
Dwayne Johnson, Jr.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Nevada 17
SDSU 13
Q. Ryan, how much impact did the penalties have on the game today?
RYAN AGNEW: It had a big impact. We had some penalties at crucial times that can't happen. Any time you shoot yourself in the foot, it's hard to come back from all of them. So you can't do that, especially in games like this against an opponent like that. In these circumstance, you can't do stuff like that.
Q. Dwayne, what do you think the difference in the game was?
DWAYNE JOHNSON, JR.: The difference in the game? Penalties came down to a big part. We just didn't play well. It was nothing special. We just didn't play well.
Q. How about for you, Ryan?
RYAN AGNEW: Offensively, we lost the game. Defense has been playing great all year. You let up 17 points in a college football game, you should win.
Offensively, we have to score more points. Defense has been doing it all year. They played a great game. I'm sure they are going to want to improve on a lot of things, but letting up 17 points in a college football game, you should win that nine times out of ten.
Q. How would you assess the defense's overall play tonight?
DWAYNE JOHNSON, JR.: We didn't play to our expectations. Yeah, we gave up 17 but our expectation is to not let them score at all. SO we are back to the drawing board tomorrow to prepare for Fresno, getting back to that, not letting them run the ball. We need to stop on the air raid and stop them passing the ball, too.
Q. With about 3:46 left, fourth and sixth, was it an easy call for the coaching staff? Did you expect to be on the field going for it or did you know?
RYAN AGNEW: You always have to be ready for any situation, but Coach put on the field goal kicking team, ran out as quick as possible. Matt nailed it, so we executed what we wanted to do in that situation.
Q. Do you feel like in that last drive, when you guys got the ball back and defense made that stop, that -- what was the game plan coming into that drive and what do you think didn't get executed?
RYAN AGNEW: Just terrible by me. I missed a couple open guys. Missed Busby across the middle. I missed Parker, last play. Should have thrown it earlier. That's all on me. I was wrong with my timing. I've got to make better, accurate throws. It was good play calls. I just need to execute better.
Q. Second year in a row, you had momentum coming into last year, six-game win streak and this year, four-game win streak, 7-1. Did you look at those two situations similarly; that Nevada stopped momentum you had previously built?
RYAN AGNEW: You have to know every conference at this time of year, every team wants to win. You can't come, you know, half-ass going into a football game. These teams are really good. They were 5-4 before playing and now they are 6-4. They are a really good football team, and we can't take anyone lightly. Offensively we didn't play how we needed to play and that's why we lost.
Q. Did you think you were extra prepared going into the bye week, and how do you think that helped or do you think you were off for too long?
DWAYNE JOHNSON, JR.: Do we think we were extra prepared?
Q. Do you think that played a role, not being on the field for two weeks or the bye week hurt?
DWAYNE JOHNSON, JR.: I don't know how you assess that. We just didn't play well tonight. That's the main thing to be honest.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT