BAYLOR UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 2, 2017
Anu Solomon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Liberty - 48, Baylor - 45
Q. (No microphone.)
ANU SOLOMON: Including the offensive line, I thought there were some little jitters in the first two drives and then we started to click.  Hat's off to Liberty, they competed, obviously came out with the win.  I think that we just beat ourself in those situations.
Q. Offensively you scored 45 points.  You did what you wanted to do.  Would you chalk that up as -- other than some little things, that you found that rhythm that you guys needed?
ANU SOLOMON: Yeah, obviously, the first thing to do here is just win.  We came short and we just got to learn from it and get back to work.
Q. The running game, even with Jamycal going down, which that really kind of (No microphone.)  And with you, was that part of the offensive line coming together a little bit and figuring out what they needed to do?
ANU SOLOMON: Of course.  Early on Ryan just made some great calls, and we caught them and we flipped the switch, made them fall short on the -- on some gaps.  So we did great there.
Q. What did you think about his performance, particularly when Jamycal went down, for him to come down and do what he did as a freshman?
ANU SOLOMON: As a freshman for a young guy to come out and do what he just did, it's really amazing.  That guy's going to be a great player for us.  We hope Jamycal comes back, but it's next man up.  Lovett did a great job tonight.
Q. Did you kind of show everybody why you got that single digit with this team already as a freshman?
ANU SOLOMON: Of course.  He's a tough young player.  Straight from the East Coast and he's a tough guy.
Q. (No microphone.)
ANU SOLOMON: Yeah, obviously we thought, they thought that they can give him another chance.  It is what it is.  I'm a team player, so you do what you have to do to get a win.
Q. What did you guys think of the way you guys scored points?
ANU SOLOMON: We played well, but not as what we wanted to be.  We made some mistakes.  Clearly on that big play that's one that I want back on that pick six.  I just thought that that matchup could be good, and I just felt like I gave that one away.  Just got to learn from it, come back stronger next week.
Q. Coach was saying he felt the receiver game was solid.  (No microphone.)
ANU SOLOMON: Yeah, Denzel's a great player.  In that situation, (No microphone.)
Q. What route was it?
ANU SOLOMON: I don't know.
Q. Are those things, like the drops or overthrows, is that stuff that also comes with time together as quarterback and receiver?
ANU SOLOMON: Of course.  First game, a little antsy on the throws.  I didn't know I could get the ball that far, but I did.  Can't believe I got it perfect on Platt.  I mean really you can't really outthrow that guy.  So just got to work on it.  Staying after practice, get a little extra work in, but, yeah, learn from it.
Q. When did you find out you were going to be the starter?
ANU SOLOMON: I can't tell you guys that.
Q. During this process, how many reps did you usually get with the first team?
ANU SOLOMON: It was even split.  Yeah.
Q. How do you shake off a tough loss like this?  Do you go back and reflect on it or just kind of forget about it?
ANU SOLOMON: You reflect on it for a moment.  It's the first game of the season, we can't let it define us.  We're better than that.  This is not the team that I think that has put their heart and sweat and blood and tears in through the summer and spring.  We're definitely a better team, but how can we bounce back?  That's the question.
Q. Playing an FCS team at home that you all naturally are going to not feel as up for it and they have nothing to lose?
ANU SOLOMON: Yeah, I mean we can't come with the mentality of thinking that this is an easy game, especially in college football.  You see upsets all over the place, all over the country.  So with this, you just got to take a grain of salt with it.  It is what it is.  We lost, can't do nothing about it except move on and get better.
Q. During the last couple drives, how much more comfortable did you feel within the offense, within the flow of the game, than you did when you first went out there in the first quarter?
ANU SOLOMON: I felt a lot better.  Everything was just clicking, the rhythm with my receivers, linemen were -- I mean I had time -- the linemen did their job, the running back, Lovett, he did a great job.  So all in all, we thought we did good, but we can do better.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT