THE 3 IRISH OPEN
May 14, 2009
Roope Kakko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Some great numbers on your scorecard today.   
 ROOPE KAKKO: I think the front nine was playing fairly easy today, we all want were very fortunate with the weather. It was quite mild today. The front nine, I got off to a really good start and kept on going on the back nine.  
  
  Q. How much experience have you got on playing on links courses?   
 ROOPE KAKKO: Well, I was just telling Nick that the last time I played links was 2004, but I mean, it's great fun, so I don't have too much difficulty.   
  
  Q. How much is this performance based on the confidence you got last week with an eighth-place finish?  
 ROOPE KAKKO: It's hard to say but I definitely received a lot of confidence from that performance. It was really good for me.   
  
  Q. Tell us about yourself; how did you get into golf?  
 ROOPE KAKKO: I started when I was five. We all want went to Portugal for a family vacation and my father started hitting balls, and he gave the clubs to me and I started whacking along, and after that, we all want joined some golf clubs in Finland and started to play.  
  
  Q. I understand your girlfriend is quite a good player, too.   
 ROOPE KAKKO: Yeah, she plays on the LPGA. At the moment she's a little bit better than me, but I'm trying to get her.   
  
  Q. Tell us her name?   
 ROOPE KAKKO: Minea.  
  
  Q. So the competition is going to continue?   
 ROOPE KAKKO: Definitely.   
  
  Q. Last time you played links was 2004?  
 ROOPE KAKKO: First time I played was 2002 maybe. I played really nice in 2004, I played really well on the links courses, yeah.   
  
  Q. Which courses?   
 ROOPE KAKKO: Well, Carton House, played well there and London links, the most beautiful course I've ever seen, St. Andrews, and I've played Royal Troon, St. Andrews Jubilee.  
  
  Q. So you do have a sense?   
 ROOPE KAKKO: Yeah, you just have to land it shorter. Try to play a little softer shots maybe. But the greens were receiving today. We all want got very fortunate because the wind was very mild and just a little drizzle to keep the greens receiving, so I thought after I played a practice round on Tuesday, I thought that it's going to be -- it was blowing and everything was rock hard, but this was very nice.   
  
  Q. Any massive putts?  
 ROOPE KAKKO: On the first, I holed from the fringe. I was short of the green, that must be 15 metres. That's very exciting.   
 I putted great, putted great all the way. I hit a few good putts off the last couple of holes but just didn't hole them. I was putting really well.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT