NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PISTONS v HEAT
May 28, 2006
Rasheed Wallace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  What was frustrating you last night more than anything? 
 RASHEED WALLACE:  I ain't going to mention what was frustrating me. 
 Q.  Was it Coach, was it the team? 
 RASHEED WALLACE:  I ain't going to mention it. 
 Q.  Coach said every day is a new day for you, that you can look past it.  What do you do to regroup? 
 RASHEED WALLACE:  You know, just watch a little film, come out here, have a good practice today, get a couple shots up and just try to clear our heads from last night. 
 Q.  Did you tweak the ankle again? 
 RASHEED WALLACE:  Yeah, a couple times, but I'm all right, though. 
 Q.  How correctable are these issues? 
 RASHEED WALLACE:  I mean, it's correctable, the things we did.  We'll be all right. 
 Q.  Defensively, we're just so unaccustomed for you guys to give up that kind of shooting percentage.  Is that correctable, as well? 
 RASHEED WALLACE:  Oh, yeah, definitely.  They got a whole lot of points in the paint last night, and not just Shaq. 
 We've got to make them shoot a couple more jumpers and keep playing the way we normally play that got us this far. 
 Q.  What's missing defensively?  It looks like that's been going on for a little while, the other team getting points in the paint? 
 RASHEED WALLACE:  I mean, some games they do, some games they don't.  Exactly what it is, I'm not sure.  That's nothing that I can answer. 
 Q.  Why is this team so resilient?  You guys have been in tough spots for three years now, and we keep seeing you win. 
 RASHEED WALLACE:  That's just us, just the heart of a champion.  We're down right now 2-1, but we think we can overcome any deficit that's put in front of us. 
 Q.  When you were sitting on the end of the bench here, Ron Harper came over and talked to you.  What did you guys talk about? 
 RASHEED WALLACE:  We were just talking about a couple plays in the game, that's about it. 
 Q.  It's a situation where it looks like when the ball goes into it and you're getting your spots and your getting your shots.  Is it the simple fact of not getting enough of that? 
 RASHEED WALLACE:  I mean, I don't know.  That's a question I think y'all should ask Flip more than me because I guess it's more of a coaching call.  Either way, I've still got to go out there and play, rebound and defend.  That's one of the things you've got to do.  When your shots are not falling or if you're not getting a lot of shots, hey, there's other ways that you can get it, help the team out on defense.  When I'm sitting on the bench cheering the guys on -- I'm not all about shots, you know that. 
 Q.  You mentioned points in the paint.  You only had 16, which is just half your series average of 38.  What do you have to do to correct that? 
 RASHEED WALLACE:  Go to the paint more. 
 Q.  That's pretty obvious. 
 RASHEED WALLACE:  Just getting a couple more post-ups for myself, Tayshaun, Ben; Chauncey and Rip driving to the paint.  I mean, it's nothing major where, like, we're running around like chickens with our heads cut off or nothing, but we know what we've got to do. 
 Q.  I know you don't like that Hack-a-Shaq thing, right, that's a disturbing trend to you? 
 RASHEED WALLACE:  Yeah, it is.  It never worked when I was in Portland, it didn't work now.  So, I mean, I don't -- to me personally if I was a coach, I don't like that.  That's just my personal opinion? 
 Q.  You're saying that you can do better, rebound more aggressively.  What do you want to see from Flip in this game? 
 RASHEED WALLACE:  What he's doing, coaching.  It ain't like he can come out there, throw some shorts on, lace his sneakers up and come out there with us.  He's just got to do his thing from the sideline, that's all. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT