SYBASE BIG APPLE CLASSIC PRESENTED BY LINCOLN MERCURY
July 16, 2003
Joe Corcoran
Debbie Crews
Ty Votaw
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MODERATOR: Welcome everybody again to the final press conference of today.  We have some exciting news to share.  We're going to have Commissioner Votaw come up and make the announcement and have a couple speakers speak on that.
COMMISSIONER VOTAW:   Thank you all again for coming back and listening to what we have to say.  It is indeed a pleasure to be able to talk to you about the LPGA new affiliation with the New York Eye and Ear Infirmary.  I'm very pleased to have with us today Joe Corcoran, CEO and President, and Dr.  Debbie Crews, a class A member of the LPGA Teaching Club Professional Membership and a research professor at Arizona State University.  The announcement you will be hearing from both Joe and Debbie here in a little bit, but the special announcement today involves the LPGA and New York Ear and Eye Infirmary, which is one of the nation's leading specialty hospitals.  NYE&EI is the official charity of the Sybase Big Apple Classic and is a charity that's done a great deal for the success of this tournament. 
And the announcement that we're making today is an official affiliation with the LPGA, which is really the first of its kind in our history in a relationship that we will be establishing with a regional charity.  The affiliation will involve two phases; a national research project of which Dr.  Crews of our TCP membership will play an integral part. 
We think this is very exciting and shows the strength of the LPGA brand and product and allows NYE&EI to spread an important message of the brand strength and recognition that they are seeking with the LPGA, and the research project has the potential to help and affect thousands of lives and for us to learn much more about the effects of learning in golf and the good work that New York Ear and Eye Infirmary does for its patients in this community. 
With that said, I would like to introduce 
Joe Corcoran, President and CEO of New York Ear and Eye Infirmary, to say a few words about how they feel about the relationship. 
Joe. 
JOE CORCORAN:  New York Eye and Ear Infirmary is very excited to be involved with the Sybase Big Apple Classic.  Our volunteers up here enjoy doing it.  We're even more excited about the new relationship.  As he said, we'll be doing a national grass roots effort for education and training that we think will provide great benefit and advances in the golfing public.  We're also excited, of course, about our research project that will be headed up by Debbie crews. 
Debbie is far more qualified to talk about the research project than I am, so, Debbie. 
DR. CREWS:  Thank you.  My background has actually been specifically looking at brain activity for the past 15 years; and the eyes and ears have such a strong influence in our potential and performance.  It's really a nice marriage of the two measures, types of measures, that we can look at in order to look at the influence in the first study of auditory and motion training on golf performance.  We're also interested in looking across various skills, both genders, and across age.  It is very likely that we can help people at each of their stages at golf expertise differently, and some of the research will help us understand that, and from that, we'll be able to devise very specific training programs. 
MODERATOR:  Thank you, I would like to open up for any questions you might have regarding research or NYE&EI or Commissioner Votaw.  Are there any questions?
Q.  (Inaudible)?
JOE CORCORAN:  The details really are being worked on.  What it will involve basically is the screening and education program perhaps tied to some golf treating at the same time, as I understand it. 
MODERATOR:  Are there any other questions?  Thank you all for being here for this announcement today.  If you have any other questions, let us know.  Thank you. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT