MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY AIG
June 5, 2002
Ty Votaw
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







TY VOTAW: Hi everybody.  I have seen some of  you since our press conference -- at our press conference  at Nabisco.  Some of you I haven't seen since we had our  player summit this year, or the beginning -- end of last  year, so we thought we would get together and give you a  little bit of an update on where we are in 2002. We obviously are very pleased with where the  tour has gone the first six months of this year, five  months of this year, leading into now our second major  championship of the year, the McDonald's LPGA  Championship. I have to start off with where we are on the  competitive side, and we have had a very dramatic and  compelling year so far, and you have to, again, start  with Annika Sorenstam carrying -- starting off where she  carried off last year with four titles so far this year,  one major, and is fast, once again, approaching the  $1 million mark in earnings and prize money, which if it  isn't the fastest this year, it's among the fastest she  has ever been able to do that. But it's not just been a story about Annika  this year.  We have had 11 events, I believe, this year,  with seven different winners.  All but two of them, 9 of  the 11, have come down to the final putt on the final day  in either regulation or in play-offs, so the dramatic  competitions that we have been able to give our fans in  the first 11 events with the diversity of winners, a  couple first-time winners, some familiar names, Juli  Inkster, et cetera, that we think the year has gotten off  to a great start and we have got an enormous amount of  momentum coming into the McDonald's LPGA Championship  presented by AIG.

In terms of an update where we are with the  number of fans, initiatives that we announced as part of  our strategic business plan at the Kraft-Nabisco  championship, we have a number of positive things to  report.  We, in our tournaments, have instituted a number  of fans-first initiatives that we can have, we can give  you more information about, in particular, and I can  certainly follow up with answers to questions, but  certainly the course initiative that we initiated at  Nabisco this year where we gave up to 200 fans a  backstage view of how to watch an LPGA tournament was  very well-received by that marketplace, and we are  looking to have that initiative rolled out at at least a  couple more this year. In Nashville, for example, we had ESPN's The  Truck appear, which was the first women's sporting event that ESPN's The Truck came to, and we had a -- I think a  successful turnout for that, over 2,200 spectators came  through The Truck, participated in any number of  different things, whether it was getting their picture on  the ESPN, the magazine, cover, participating in a mock  sports center where they can be Kenny Maynard, Dan  Patrick. Those 2,200 spectators in Nashville that went  through The Truck was the third best ever that ESPN has  experienced at any sporting event, and nearly totaled the  three-day total at a Super Bowl when they had it there,  so that, along with a Vince Gill and Amy Grant concert on  Tuesday night of the Aerus Electrolux USA Championship  hosted by Vince Gill and Amy Grant -- which is the  longest title in the history of golf, I think -- brought  7,500 new fans or new spectators to the LPGA in an  environment that was the LPGA, and that's translated into  a number of different success stories in terms of  attendance and television ratings and LPGA traffic, as  well. 

Last week in Chicago, the Kellogg-Keebler  Classic, an inaugural event very well-attended for a  first-year event for a marketplace that we haven't been  back to in several years, and a very crowded marketplace,  frankly.  Over 56,000 people attended that inaugural event.  We had a number of great things going on there.   Nancy Lopez Day was announced on Saturday, which  contributed to the crowds.  We had a kids Pro Am, a  Junior Pro Am, on Monday, Memorial Day, as well as a  fairly, we thought, well -- very successful autograph  tent or policy that, as players came off of their  performance each day and signed their scorecard, they  went to an autograph booth and signed autographs, and the  next group came in, and it was, you know, virtually  participated in by players, and, again, it was very  well-received, and I think the attendance out of the box  was very positive, and I think we have bigger and better  things to follow with that. In terms of some of the fans-first benchmarks  that we are trying to achieve with the 10 percent  increase in our average attendance, and a 15 percent  average increase in our viewership, we are on our way to  achieving those goals, as well. So far this year, with comparable events, we  are up 18 percent in average attendance at our  tournaments, and we are still looking towards the  development of benchmarks, so we can continue those types  of comparisons on a much more statistically valid basis  than, perhaps, we have, and other golf tournaments have  in the past. But in terms of the estimates and the rough  numbers that have been announced, we are up approximately  18 percent in average attendance in our comparable events  2001 to 2002, and in terms of television, we have a  number of success stories there as well.  We are up in  comparable telecasts this year, March to June, from 2001  to 2002, approximately 13 percent. 

We have a little bit of work to do to reach our  benchmarks, but we are confident with the announcement we  have been able to make in our telecasts and the  competitive mix that's been demonstrated in the first 11  events that our product is going to -- in terms of  competitive telecasts are going to continue to reach  those benchmarks that we have achieved. The enhancements that we have had, we have been  very excited about working with our television partners  on things like increasing the number of hand-held  wireless cameras on our ESPN telecasts so that they can  enhance the coverage of both front 9 and coverage of web  players in an up close and personal way during the entire  telecasts of the entire golf course. We have added things along all lines along our  telecasts in the golf channel with heart monitors for our  players, mic'ing our players in the heat of competition,  the golf channel is a unique enhancement, the swing matrix, 360 degree view of our players' golf swings, and  those are all enhancements that we think are making our  telecasts more compelling, more entertaining and we hope  will translate into higher viewership numbers as well. At LPGA.com traffic we are very pleased with  the fact, looking at a snapshot of May 2001 to May 2002,  we are up 72 percent in page use, reflecting an increase  in traffic there, and 62 percent increase in visitors for  LPGA.com from May 2001 to May 2002. So all of those things we think are reflective  of the enhanced focus of the entire organization on a  fans first initiative.  That goes from the players to the  caddies to the sponsors to the staff, and everybody  that's associated with the LPGA, and we need to continue  the momentum, as I said, in previous discussions with  some of you and in other interviews, we are going to  evaluate the success of the five-year plan in a marathon  fashion not in a sprint fashion, we are not going to  necessarily get too high about the successful things I  have just talked about, although I have shared with you a  number of very good successful things, but we are also  not going to get too low and we perhaps take some time to  develop the plan fully so that it is a full five-year  plan that is evaluated as a marathon and not as a sprint. 

The only other thing I guess I could say in terms of -- and this is a philosophical point of  observation for me, in terms of the five points of  celebrity that has been talked about that we shared with  the players at the players summit in Phoenix and has been  reported on by many of you in terms of what we are asking  the players to do in order to make themselves more  marketable, and if we -- and as we said to them, if they  make themselves more marketable, they will make the  overall enterprise, that is, the LPGA, more marketable. There tends to be somewhat of a focus on only  one of the five points of celebrity, that being the  appearance side of that five-sided object, and I think  that that is somewhat interesting, but I also I want to  make sure that I emphasize here for you today on the  record that there is, in fact, five points of celebrity. There is performance, which is, by far, in  everything I have said, the number 1 important thing.   There haven't been very many successful celebrity  athletes who have not performed well in their support,  and that has to be number 1 if there is a ranking in this  context. Relevance, joy and passion, appearance and  approachability round out the last four of those five  points, and I just again wanted to make sure I stated  them all for you at this time so, again, there isn't some other default position to just number 4 in that last,  which is appearance. So with that, I would love to open it up for  any questions or any amplifications that you would like  me to make for you, and hopefully, I won't confuse you  even more with anything I have said.

Q.: You got any bad news for us?
TY VOTAW: Well, you played with me in the golf  today so I think you know very much what bad news I have  in my life.

Q.: Can you talk about the qualifying situation for next  week? 
TY VOTAW: As I understand it, what the USGA  has done is cancelled the Chicago qualifying site for  this past week that was scheduled for Tuesday because of  inclement weather.  I understand that they have  rescheduled it for next Tuesday, but because many of the  players -- or some of the players who were qualifying  this week, or attempted to qualify this week in Chicago  may have been eligible for the Master's next week,  scheduling a new event -- new qualifying site in Chicago  when the Evian Master's is going on in France would have  made it difficult for those players to make a choice what  to do:  Do they go to France and play in an event that is  the second highest purse in our schedule, or do they  attempt to qualify for the US Women's Open, which is the  highest purse on our schedule and, arguably, one of the  most important championships that they can compete for. So the USGA, when presented with that set of  circumstances, I believe has found a site in Rochester  for Tuesday, which is the week after the Evian Master's,  which would give only the players who were in Chicago a  choice to either go back to Chicago and attempt to  qualify at that site next Tuesday or to qualify at the  site -- or attempt to qualify at the site in Rochester  the following Tuesday.     

Q.: So it is going to be that Tuesday then?
TY VOTAW: Yes.     

Q.: It is Tuesday to try and make allowances for the travel?
TY VOTAW: Yes, I believe that's right.   Although the charter that comes back from Evian gets in  Sunday night, but I think it's Tuesday.     

Q.: Would there be anything wrong with having the final  qualifying a month and a half out from the Open so that  it doesn't conflict with major championships?
TY VOTAW: Those are decisions that the USGA, I  think, has to make.  I think that we will certainly, once  we go through this process, have a number of different  discussions and lines of communications with the USGA  about how we can make sure that some of the scheduling  issues, for example, having three different qualifiers  the week of a major championship maybe not happen again. We can't help the weather that happened in  Chicago, that happens in any situation, but we certainly  we'll have a greater line of communication, I believe,  open with our friends at the USGA about a better  scheduling process than we have had. But to your point, I don't know what the  downside -- to your question, I don't know what the  downsides would be to having a month and a half out.     

Q.: But they are still your friends? 
TY VOTAW: Absolutely.     

Q.: Ty, given all the strides you have made in television,  the positive strides, are you disappointed that the first  two rounds of this tournament are not going to be  televised, and could you shed any light as to why?
TY VOTAW: As to why, I believe that a meeting  of the minds couldn't take place between, I believe, the  incumbent network golf channel and this -- the organizers  of this event as to the economics of making that  Thursday, Friday telecasts possible. To the extent that we have had, over the past  couple of years, all four days of all four major  championships covered by television, and the fact that we  couldn't get that done this year, is arguably a step backwards, then I would say it's disappointing that we  aren't able to have our fans be able to watch McDonald's  LPGA Championship on Thursday or Friday. The -- you know, when someone gives you  something, and someone takes away something, it results  in perhaps a little bit more traffic to LPGA.com, but  it's still not the same as live telecasts, so we are --  to that extent, I think I would have to express  disappointment that a meeting of the minds couldn't take  place, but at the end of the day it also comes down to  the cold hard economics of the situation. And disappointment aside, I respect the  decisions that have been made by the people that have to  pay the dollars to get them on TV.     

Q.: Did the LPGA try to intercede at all in the negotiations with the dates?
TY VOTAW: We had a couple of discussions, but again, it comes down to economics and a willing buyer and  a willing seller.     

Q.: Who is going to buy in this case, who is doing the selling?  I don't know anything about TV.  I guess I could ask Lenny later, but I figured I would just ask  you.
TY VOTAW: When you ask Lenny later, let me know if he gives you the same answer I did.     

Q.: Does the golf channel pay the tournament or how does it work?
TY VOTAW: No, it's a question of production in  time, and what the specific arrangement between this  event and the golf channel is, I am not familiar with  because it is an independent decision, just like their  relationship between the tournament and CBS is a  contractual relationship between -- once this event pays  the LPGA for the rights to negotiate with the television  network, they then negotiate with that television  network. In years prior it was for early round coverage  with the golf channel and with final round coverage with  CBS, so the buyer in this situation is the tournament and  the seller in this situation, as to early rounds, is the  golf channel, and as to final rounds, CBS.     

Q.: This year the tournament wasn't bought?
TY VOTAW: They weren't buying what the golf  channel was selling, as I understand it.

Q.: Okay.  That clears it up.  Getting back to a couple scheduling issues, a  year from now this event is the same weekend as a senior  major about 20, 25 miles up the road.  Is that a concern?   And apparently, neither the LPGA nor the PGA coordinated  with each other to prevent something like this from  happening. Can you comment about that?    
TY VOTAW: Well, again, I can't control what  the PGA of America does in scheduling the Senior PGA  Championship.  They were the same weekend this year, and  yes, golf fans will have a choice to make next year in  this area as to which event they will support, and that's  regrettable, but we did not know where the PGA of America  was going to send their -- or what date they were going  to set their senior PGA championship, or set it up. This date is basically the date that this event  is going to be for the next several years as far as our  scheduling is concerned, and we will have a crowded  marketplace next year as a result of the PGA of America's  scheduling, but they don't typically consult us on where  they make their decisions.  Neither does the PGA Tour on  their decisions, but in markets where we have had senior  events and LPGA events, I think both have survived or  have existed fairly amicably, and I think that will be  the case next year.  The only thing is I don't know if we  have ever had one in the same location, the same --  roughly same location and the same date.     

Q.: What about two majors, too, has that ever conflicted?
TY VOTAW: Again, I don't really concern myself  as to the majors at the senior PGA championship, but I  understand it is a major -- or the Senior PGA Tour, and I  understand it is a major and that will be a fact of life for next year.     

Q.: Would you rather see more coordination between the tours on these types of issues? 
TY VOTAW: It's always nice to communicate with our friends at the USGA or the PGA of America, PGA tour.

Q.:    Do you think the senior tour will have a commissioner by then? 
TY VOTAW: I have enough issues to deal with as commissioner of the LPGA, I can't necessarily be  qualified to opine about the commissionership of the  Senior PGA Tour.     





End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT