DU MAURIER CLASSIC
July 29, 1999
Ty Votaw
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TY VOTAW:  I have.  Sure, we tend to do this at about every tournament stop during the year that I have been Commissioner.  I was named, I took over officially on March 24th from Jim Ritts as Commissioner.  And over the past six or seven months, I have attended all but two of the tournaments this year.  And I think that we are experiencing in 1999, by far, a most successful season to date on a lot of different fronts.  Certainly the key indices of success, in terms of purse amounts, numbers of televised events, numbers of televised hours are at an all-time high.  We have doubled our purses over the past ten years, and the number of events have grown from 14 events in 1991 to over 34 events televised this year; and 240 hours of television coverage during that time.  Those are, as I said, the most obvious indices of success, but I also think the year itself has been dramatic in a number of areas.  We have had some phenomenal performances throughout the year, starting obviously with the year that Karrie Webb has had winning five times, setting the LPGA scoring record in her homeland of Australia during the Australia Ladies Masters at 26-under par.  That, combined with the year that Juli Inkster has had and four wins and two major championships, and winning the major World Golf Championships in dramatic fashion with two 16-under par performances.  And both of them having the -- crossing the million-dollar mark in prize money for the year faster than anybody else has accomplished that in only 16 events. This is the first year we have ever had two players who have reached a million dollars in a single season.  Our first major of the year with winning by Dottie Pepper by 6 strokes over Meg Mallon at 19-under par and Meg shooting 13-under par is significant in that, if Dottie hadn't played that event, Meg would have won 24 of the 26 previous Dinah Shores with 13-under par.  She beat the person finishing third by five strokes herself.  So it was, I think, we have had some phenomenal performances.  Again, starting with Karrie and Juli.  We are very excited about the second half of the year that we are just now beginning.  But obviously we are focusing this week on the du Maurier Classic, our fourth and final major of the year.  And certainly the numbers, the names of people who have been identified as potential winners of this event, you have to start with Karrie and Juli.  But certainly, Lorie Kane, the year that she has had with being so close to getting her first win - I think this is her 100th and one tournament in her career at the LPGA.  And she and I were talking last week or this week, and when she wins her first  event it would be awfully nice, I know, for her to win in her homeland.  And that would be, I think, very exciting for the entire nation.  I think someone who also had a very quiet but successful year is Meg Mallon, winning twice so far this year, and again the performance that she has had at the Dinah Shore.  She has won a couple majors in her career.  She is somebody who is a favorite.  And then you have got Se Ri Pak, who seems to have been over the past two years very much a warm-weather player, and in that her successes have come primarily starting in June and have had impressive summers, and she has won already twice this summer.  I think it is going to be a very exciting event this week.  The golf course, I have experienced it, and I am glad I am not playing it for the next four days myself.  It is a stern test.  I think it is going to be one of the best tests of our year, and I have heard a number of players say it is probably one of the finest golf courses, if not the finest golf course that we have played in terms of conditioning and in terms of course conditions and the quality of the layout.  We are very appreciative of what du Maurier as a sponsor has done for the LPGA over the past 20-plus years.  And the fact that they have done everything in a first-class manner, we are very grateful for, and we always look forward to coming to whatever site in Canada they bring us to.  And certainly the setting here at the foothills of the Rocky Mountains and certainly Priddis Greens is going to be a dramatic backdrop, I think, for this week event.  With that, I think that is a rambling dissertation of where we are this year, and I am happy to answer any questions.


Q.  On the sponsorship part, is there any advancement on what is going to happen with the event over the next couple of years?

TY VOTAW:  Other than what is, I think, generally known that du Maurier has agreed to go forward for this year and next and pending what the situation is, what the legislation and the anti-tobacco legislation that is in place, I know that there are going to be ongoing discussions and, I believe, some judicial proceedings are to take place either in the late fall or early winter, January, February of next year.  And how long that will take to get resolved, is something that we are in close contact with du Maurier this week and then leading up to this week, and we anticipate continuing those -- that dialogue over the next several months.  Basically where du Maurier has been is that -- is they have indicated to us that if it looks like there is going to be no change to legislation, they are going to certainly let us know in enough time to enable us to see if there can be another sponsor secured, and hopefully that won't -- hopefully the timing issue won't inhibit us from doing that if we have to.  But we are not speculating as to what the future of this event is.  We want to focus on this week's event and next year's because of what du Maurier has done for the LPGA over the past 20-plus years and for women's golf generally because of the du Maurier series.   I think that is one of the, I think, the hidden gems of where their support of sports, support of golf in particular, has had an impact.  Because I think with the emergence of a Lorie Kane and A.J. Eathorne, most recently, and both products of the series, Canadian players -- the influx of Canadian players in our Tour has from a potential point of view, I think, has as much potential as the influx of Swedish players, 6, 7, 8 years ago with Liselotte Neumann, Annika Sorenstam.  I think with the emergence of Korean players of a Se Ri Pak, I think we are going to have a number of Korean players go to our Q-School.  I think more and more Korean players and the Canadian players between A.J. and Lorie and Gail Graham and Dawn Coe-Jones, Nancy Harvey, I think, all of those players successes on our Tour, I think is a testament to what du Maurier has been able to do with the series.  I think that is something that we are going to see hopefully continue in some way, shape, or form regardless of this legislation.


Q.  RCGA offered some hint anyway that they may be interested in taking -- I realize it hasn't advanced all that far BUT would that be a possibility?

TY VOTAW:  There are a number of people who have expressed an interest helping us.  Ultimately it is a question of having those people appreciate just what it takes to put on an event of this stature.  du Maurier, if we ultimately have to follow in the footsteps of du Maurier, it is going to be a very difficult set of footsteps to follow in, because they are able to do so, I think, in the level that they brought this event.  So I think it is a question of one of the discussions we are going to have to have with whoever is interested in perhaps doing this is understanding the level of commitment that is necessary to make events as successful as this one has been.


Q.  What influence does the LPGA Tour have on the Canadian Federal Government as far as the anti-tobacco legislation?

TY VOTAW:  We are not a lobbying organization.  We are not an organization that could or should influence legislation in our own country, let alone someone else's country.  That is, I think, best left to the political process.  I think that certainly if the legislation goes through, I think everyone should look at what the likelihood is of some very good cultural sports and entertainment issues may go -- or elements may go away because of this legislation and does that impact the quality of life within this country.  It would be, I think, will be a sad day if we lose du Maurier as a sponsor because of this legislation.  But we are not in any kind of active lobbying or persuading activity to see if that can be changed, other than the expression of sadness if we can't continue with this sponsorship.


Q.  If it comes to pass that this event finds a new sponsor, it is a sponsor you are satisfied with, continue the event the way you want to see it continue, would this event retain its status as a major or would you look elsewhere?

TY VOTAW:  I don't want to speculate on that, because I think it is unfair to du Maurier to speculate as to whether someone else can do what they have done.  I think it would have to  be evaluated at the time.  I think there are number of other events that have expressed interest in doing that.  We are going to also evaluate how the media feels about this, because it is an interesting philosophical issue as to just how does an event become a major in an accepted way.  And I think the last -- this is the last event that has been designated a major by the LPGA, and it will be interesting if that ever happens again.  And again, I am not presuming that this won't continue to be a major after 2000.  We may be back in 2001 if things go a certain way.  How an event is designated a major, both from a formal perspective and how if we designate it, and in how it is accepted by the media and by the fans and by the players themselves, I think, are going to be important questions that we are going to have a dialogue about with a lot of different constituencies over the next 6, 8, 12 months to determine if it is not the du Maurier Classic or a successor tournament, what event would be the next major.


Q.  I don't know if you answered this already, but realistically what are the chances of another sponsor taking over for du Maurier?

TY VOTAW:  I haven't even really started to look at that.  I don't know if I have enough information right now to even answer it because -- other than to say what du Maurier has done to build this event up over -- is substantial and whether there can be another broad-minded, enlightened, supportive company such as du Maurier who would want to step up to the level that they have stepped up to, you don't have to have that level of commitment to have a very good solid event in Canada here.  But I think that given the footsteps that I have mentioned earlier that someone would have to follow in, the stakes are pretty high that whoever follows in there is going to be compared to what this event has been.  So they are going to have to be -- have an appreciation for that level of dollars and that level of commitment that is there. But we haven't opened up the process to such a degree that would enable me to say that it is -- what it is going to take to bring the event back here.


Q.  Does it reflect poorly at all on this as a major when two-time Player-of-the-Year decides she needs more rest instead of playing?

TY VOTAW:  No, I think that is more of an odd and unfortunate circumstance than a reflection on this event.  I don't think this event, as a quality event, lives or dies on whether one player comes and plays it.  I think when you have got 47 of the top 50 competing here and I think -- I am not even sure who the other two that aren't here in the top 50, other than Annika, speaks volumes for the quality of the event and the prestige of the event.


Q.  Did you talk to her at all?

TY VOTAW:  I have not talked to her personally.  I have spoken with her representative and in fact I just got a telephone number for her this morning where I can call and just to make sure -- because I have got to think that the reason she is taking  off is not because of the prestige or the lack of respect that she has for this event.  I think the respect is absolutely there. I think the fact that she is not here reflects that she really does need some time off.  If that is the case, we want to make sure that she is doing fine like I want to make sure every -- I want to make sure Nancy Lopez is recovering as fast as possible out of concern for her.


Q.  Do you guys have a policy where players need to seek a release to go play in an event that goes head-to-head with one of your own?

TY VOTAW:  Yes.


Q.  What is that?

TY VOTAW:  We have a conflicting--


Q.  Certain number of year --

TY VOTAW:  We have a conflicting event release procedure that we allow, I believe, up to four players per week to play in a conflicting event.  I believe a player is enabled to have two of those a year, two releases.


Q.  Going back to the R. C. J. They must have a fairly good handle on what it takes to run an event?

TY VOTAW:  I think knowing what it takes is the first step and then obviously finding the resources to go out and certainly RCGA has the infrastructure because of the number of events they already do maintain and run.  I think they have a very good sense of what it takes.  It is just a question of then finding someone to pay for that.  Whether that is RCGA or somebody else, I think that is a question that will be looking at over the next several months.


Q.  We could have an issue later this year -- this is going to be a long question, Peter, sorry, where you have got Lori and Juli and Karrie kind of neck and neck right now for Player-of-the-Year, I think if you would ask anybody on Tour or who knows golf who is your player-of-the-year this year it is unquestionably Juli with two majors; four wins, et cetera.  And yet Karrie may end up winning the points race very closely because of one extra victory here or there, et cetera.  Do you think it is possible that you guys could ever look into instead of a points based Player-of-the-Year, a vote?

TY VOTAW:  I don't think so.


Q.  A vote of the players, I am talking about.

TY VOTAW:  Yeah, I think that that would be anathema to kind of where we are in all of our objective based types of -- especially our Hall of Fame, as the best example.  And I think the point system is set up in such a way that there may be some debate as to what the appropriate person is based on what the point system is.  And a weighting of two majors versus, you know, a year long performance and certainly Karrie has had a great first quarter and a pretty good second quarter of the year.  Juli had a pretty fair first quarter and a great second quarter.  So I think it is going to be a great race and I think the point system is going to add value to that race.  If Karrie should win her first major this week, it is going to be, I think, a great story for us to tell the rest of the year to have these two players much like  David Duval and Mark O'Meara on the PGA TOUR last year, you had the same situation because Mark did win two majors and David had not, but won a number of times.  Now Mark was voted Player-of-the-Year.  I don't know if that is the right result.  I think that probably was the right result, but that doesn't mean if Karrie wins Player-of-the-Year on our point system that is not the right result either because I think the point system reflects a year long excellence and they both have had varying degrees of success in different quadrants of the year.  I think the next six months are going to be a tell-tale sign as to who is going to in fact be the Player-of-the-Year.


Q.  Also I know there is a lot of golf left to be played. O'Meara also won the PGA of America points thing based on the fact when he won a second major, he got a huge bonus because it is unusual to win two majors in a year.  Have you thought about that at all of giving extra points for special accomplishments like that?

TY VOTAW:  We haven't thought about it in any kind of formal way.  I will tell you that there has been some discussion amongst some people about creating some incentive for people to win more than one major if that will happen - financial or otherwise, and whether that translates into then impacting our -- and that is not finalized yet; just been in the discussion stages, but if that translates into then how that affects your points, that is something we can certainly look into.


Q.  You have had Se Ri Pak and Karrie come in (inaudible) as far as the LPGA is concerned has that helped to step up the running in professional sports from your standpoint?

TY VOTAW:  I think what it has done is further legitimized our statements and beliefs that we are in fact a World Tour.  I mean, the two people you just mentioned Karrie coming from Australia, Se Ri coming from Korea; Annika, when she was a rookie coming from Sweden and Akiko Fukushima who is leading the rookie points won in Austin; coming from Japan, I think that reflects the World Tour and international growth of the LPGA.  I think that is a good thing for the LPGA.  It is certainly something that I point to with a lot of pride that the best players in the world, if they want to play against the best players, they come to the LPGA to play week-in and week-out.  I think the rookie race over the past several years has reflected that.


Q.  As far as the future, the youth must be good for you?

TY VOTAW:  Absolutely.


Q.  Keeping tabs on Grace Park?

TY VOTAW:  That is interesting.  The fact that she has chosen to play the Futures Tour to perhaps gain one of the top three spots on their money list; then to gain exempt status as opposed to not accepting or as opposed to accepting sponsors exemptions at various events to gain experience on the LPGA TOUR, assuming her confidence level is there and in going to Q-School - that is something that, I think, is a pretty interesting story to tell and the fact that she has won twice in the Futures Tour and has moved up to what 8th or 9th on the Futures Tour now -- she is  now third?  I am sorry, I have haven't followed it as close as I should have, but it is an interesting decision on her part and I think it speaks volumes for the credibility of the Futures Tour and the competition that is there to -- then to be our official developmental Tour.  So I am -- Grace Park, if she doesn't ultimately go off of the top three on the Futures Tour has to go through Q-School, I think will have a very successful career long-term with the LPGA because.  Her skill level is a, I think, very impressive one I think it is going to improve.


Q.  As was mentioned, come off the heels of an Annika, Se Ri, Karrie; Grace is 19; Kelly Kuehne, 20 -- is there a 13 year old out there that is going to break through?

TY VOTAW:  I don't think so.  I think you have to be at least 19 or 20 to have the kind of success out here that -- I mean, Michelle McGann one of the earliest ones that came out at 18, I think.  I think that golf is just not the same type of sport where you can have that kind of -- maybe there will be some day, but I don't see that happening very soon.


Q.  By no means can you see a rivalry, but almost two sections going at it - you have your group of your Karrie's and Se Ri's and assuming Grace or Kelly Kuehne and Megs and Dottie Peppers and Juli Inkster's, a little battle within the Tour?

TY VOTAW:  Well, I don't know if I would put it as a battle.  I think much to the same way that Tiger Woods kept a few PGA pros out on the driving range a little bit longer and conditioning improved, et cetera because the skill level had been there, I think the same is happening on our Tour and you are seeing it in the kind of year that I have just mentioned with Inkster and Dottie Pepper and Meg Mallon having the kind of year they have had, I think they see the level of play continuing to get better and better and better and that has stepped up their games quite a bit.  And certainly from -- if you look at the spectrum of players that we have on our Tour, I think we have something for everybody in terms of the young players, the ones you just mentioned, Cristie Kerr, Kelly Kuehne, Grace Park presumably Se Ri Pak, early 20s; Robbins, Annika mid-20s, Karrie, Meg and Dottie, the Laura Davies early 30s to mid-30s, and Juli Inkster and Rosie Jones about to turn 40; then you have got the active icons of the Lopez, Kings, and Daniels and Sheehans and Bradleys, that are out here playing.  I think we have got a great spectrum.  If you look at, I think, other women's sports and I have said this in a couple of interviews, certainly there has been some pockets of examples in other women's sports like Cheryl Swoops in basketball or Carla Overbeck in Womens World Cup where motherhood has not impacted their professional careers;  I think in most other women's sports just when players' lives are getting interesting in terms of maturity, perspective, or motherhood or having a fuller life, if you will, their careers are coming to an end, I would think Chris Evert is probably more of an interesting person today as a mother of two.  Martina Navratilova is probably a more interesting player today given her life experience then she last when she was playing.  Juli Inkster, I think, is more interesting today as a mother of two and winner of two major  championships than she probably was in 1984 when she came out.  A lot of people talked about Karrie and Annika, of marketing the Tour, I think that is a lifelong process.  It is not something that can be expected to happen overnight.  I think it is something that they are in their mid-20s, I think they are going to increasingly carry that mantle as their perspective and context and life experiences mature; get more and more just like you see a Meg Mallon, or a Dottie Pepper having that kind of influence on our Tour right now.


Q.  What is the future of the Nations Cup?  I know it is kind of a big deal up here, but because it happened on a Monday, Tuesday I guess it was -- had kind of a paragraph in Golf World Magazine, obviously because (inaudible) what is going to happen with that?  I know you have to be careful with the conflicting event thing, but --

TY VOTAW:  I don't think you could have had Nations Cup five or six years ago.  Again it speaks earlier to my earlier comment about how Canadian women's golf has developed over the past several years.  From what I -- I didn't attend this year's Nations Cup.  From what I understand, it was well attended, well served, there were enthusiastic crowds.  From a Canadian perspective, I don't think they were very happy with the result, but I think from all indications it was a good start.  I haven't had discussion in any specificity with the organizers of that event as to whether their plans are to have it every year or to have it every other year or whether it should be more than just a Monday, Tuesday event given the result that we have just seen.  Is there enough demand?  Is there enough enthusiasm for the event from a competitive point of view to make it more than what it is, a Monday and Tuesday -- I presume I will probably start having those -- we did not sanction that event primarily out of concern of our domestic events who fell on either side of it, the Toledo event before it and the St. Louis event after it because we did not want to be perceived as encouraging a player to perhaps play in a special event and not in a full-fledge domestic event which in the end is our core customer.  Whether it ultimately becomes a sanctioned event I think will depend upon some of the answers to those questions about every year, every other year, and how if it's every year, I would question why it should be held in a year that the Solheim Cup is played because I think it -- I think we are seeing a little bit with the PGA TOUR that with The Presidents Cup every year; then Ryder Cup after that, there may not be enough of -- at least on this side of the border, enough patriotism to go around every year for those types of stepped up pitches of competition.


Q.  I know at this point there is a three year agreement to run it every year --

TY VOTAW:  There is?  I didn't know that.  I suppose if we sanctioned it I would have known that.  But we didn't sanction it.


Q.  I know the off weeks of the LPGA Tour tends to be sort of in the spring season or late winter which would be impossible to bring that event to Canada in that season.  Is there an option,  some other off-week that maybe it can be moved back --

TY VOTAW:  I don't know, I mean, we averaged -- this summer on our Tour we  averaged a million dollars in purses for the three months.  So the events that are there are pretty solid events in terms of -- and if even if one of those go away, we got events on either end of that June, July, August time frame that would love to get into those times that are in the September, May timeframe.  May is probably too early and September you are getting on the cusp up here in some ways, although you may have a situation -- but we have a very full September as well with our west coast swing after Springfield, so I don't see a date opening up on our schedule that could make it more than a Monday, Tuesday if they have to play it in the June, July, or August timeframe.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT