ROLAND GARROS
May 28, 2018
Calvin Hemery
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
D. SCHWARTZMAN/C. Hemery   
6-1, 6-3, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.   
 Q.  It wasn't easy.  How did you manage such a draw, because it wasn't an easy draw?  
CALVIN HEMERY: Yes, it wasn't easy.  When I saw the draw, I expected a difficult match, but I didn't expect such a match like that.   
I did expect something solid.  I knew he wasn't going to give me much.  He has this type of quality, but I thought I was going to play a bit better, because I gave a lot but I served very badly.   
I started the match rather well.  The first two or three games I was okay.  I wasn't overly stressed, and then I was like a ghost from the third game on my serve, and from then on I was lost.  I didn't manage to come back even though I did have a slight rise in my level at one point, but when I got, I dropped a break and another double fault.   
He got even more confident, and I was even more underwater.  When I saw the score, frustration got over me, and I didn't manage to get over it.   
So I left the match frustrated.  I wish I had had more pleasure and a nicer fight.   
 Q.  You came to the court tense this morning?  
CALVIN HEMERY: No.  When I got in, I wasn't that tense.  I tried to be as relaxed as possible.   
But lately in my matches and even in tournaments I haven't had good feelings.  So constantly I keep hoping it's going to be a good day.  But obviously with a match like that, pressure comes back on top of you, and especially when you play with a player who has that kind of level, doesn't give you many opportunities, I didn't find my game on the court.   
 Q.  Could it be an experience that will help you progress?  
CALVIN HEMERY: Of course.  I believe you learn more when you lose than when you win.   
So obviously it's going to be a good experience.  But it was a short experience, I must say.  I would hope it had lasted a bit longer with more different playing schemes and more lessons to learn, but I'm going to try to learn from that experience.   
The guys are really super-solid, I'm not constant enough, and in a match like this, all your shortcomings come back.   
So I'll have to work on some regularity.   
 Q.  Speaking about the people who invited you to the tournament, do you feel badly?  Because you say when you were tense, did you feel, With the gesture they had for me I should have done better?  
CALVIN HEMERY: Honestly, no.  Because throughout the year I played well, I thought I deserved the wildcard, so I didn't feel bad.   
I gave the best I could, but it's just that today I didn't play well.  It does happen.  Sometimes you have a nonmatch and I had a nonmatch.   
I had an opponent who pushed me to do this, to play this nonmatch.  If I had had someone who was not as solid, maybe I would have done better.  But today he was just too strong and too good, and I wasn't able to upturn the trend.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT