NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: HEAT v PACERS
May 22, 2014
David West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   David, how important is it going to be to go down there and continue the success you guys have had on the road going down to Miami?   
DAVID WEST:   We just have to play a better game.   Got to shoot the ball better.   Our defense is pretty solid.   Had a couple of breakdown, but got to play a better game.  
   
 Q.   Particularly being on the road, though, how do you continue that success?   You guys were about.500 in the regular season.   
DAVID WEST:   Just got to take care of the basketball, stay within ourselves.   Can't go out trying to make things up, stick to what we do.  
   
 Q.   Do you have a gut feeling on Paul's availability for Saturday?   Given what you've seen so far.   
DAVID WEST:   No.   I know he's got to go through whatever it is they make him go through for him to get cleared, but hopefully he can be ready to go.  
   
 Q.   What would be the impact if he cannot go?   
DAVID WEST:   We've had next man up mentality all year.   Guys have‑‑ we've had guys go down, guys have stepped up.   So as the guy goes down, we've got to have guys ready to play and perform.  
   
 Q.   Let's talk about that next man up mentality.   Describe who would be the next man up that would step up for Paul George in his absence.   
DAVID WEST:   You've got to ask Coach that.   I don't know.  
   
 Q.   I was going to say who filled in along with the starters?   Was it Rasual or Evan?   
COACH FRANK VOGEL:   Today we didn't do much contact, stuff like that.   Again, everybody's got to be ready to play.   Everybody's got to be ready to perform.   Ultimately, it will be on coach to make that decision.  
   
 Q.   Have you had some concussions playing this game?   
DAVID WEST:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   How many, do you think?   
DAVID WEST:   I don't know.   When I was in college, I had a couple.  
   
 Q.   Is it hard for an athlete to be totally honest with the coaching staff and with the doctors?   You've got five minutes left in the game and you want to be out there.   Is it hard to be honest?   
DAVID WEST:   I think sometimes it is.   You want to play.   Particularly if you know if it's an ankle or something like that.   If you tighten the shoe up or whatever, you're able to get through.   And with the time of year it is.   
But you've got to stick to the protocol, and you've got to do what's best for yourself long term.   
   
 Q.   Did you think in any way that Dwyane purposely kicked him?   
DAVID WEST:   No, I think he was like falling or it was a knee or something.   I don't think it was intentional.  
   
 Q.   How's your eye, David?   
DAVID WEST:   It's all right.  
   
 Q.   Was it okay yesterday, or did it take a while to come back to normal?   
DAVID WEST:   A little bit yesterday, but I'm all right now.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT