NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PACERS v HEAT
May 27, 2013
David West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   (Indiscernible) anything unusual about it? 
DAVID WEST:   You know, we were‑‑ we understand what type of challenges he presents.   But our defense is designed to deal with guys who shoot long‑contested jumpshots.   We just have to do what we do a little bit better. 

Q.   There's so many more things to worry about with this team, though, than with any other team, yes? 
DAVID WEST:   Yes, because they keep the floor spread.   Last night LeBron was the one guy who had it in the post.   But for the most part they've got five guys on the perimeter. 
So again, our defense is designed to be able to handle that.   We just have to‑‑ we weren't locked in totally last night. 

Q.   When you take a look at the video from last night, do you look at a situation of, we were in our defensive principles, but they exploded and you can't guard for that‑‑
DAVID WEST:   I wouldn't say we were in our principles.   We had a few lapses, and again, we didn't complete the task from start to finish of plays that needed to be made.   We just have to do what we do a little bit better. 
Like I said, I don't think we played with any force defensively.   Especially early. 

Q.   What problems did LeBron and his size pose for Paul down there in the post? 
DAVID WEST:   None really.   We let Paul down in regard that we gave‑‑ LeBron was getting four, five, six dribbles, and I don't think there's a guy in the NBA who you can guard if you give him that many dribbles.   So we let Paul down in that regard. 

Q.   So you guys need to come quickly when he's got the ball? 
DAVID WEST:   We can't allow him to have five, six dribbles against one defender.   We don't double.   We don't trap.   We rely on guys to guard their man and send help late.   We just didn't do that for some reason. 

Q.   For a team that prides itself on defense, how frustrating was it in the locker room seeing they put up 70? 
DAVID WEST:   It was rough for us, but like I said, we have to do what we do a little bit better. 

Q.   After your win, everybody thinks you're not going to lose again.   After your loss, everybody thinks you're never going to win that.   How do you guys avoid that? 
DAVID WEST:   We have to stay the course, understand the series can turn in one game.   We're not going to get too low about where we are.   The most important thing for us is the next game.   We're not worried about the series, so to speak.   We're worried about Game 4. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT