NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 15, 2008
David West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. (Indiscernible)  What provides that inspiration?   
 DAVID WEST:  I think getting closer to the people that you're with.  Let's you know you've got something you can reach for.  Something that's attainable.   
  
  Q.  What about instilling the pride of the residents who are relatively down?   
 DAVID WEST:  I think bringing some positive right on to what some of the issues are still going on here.  Obviously, New Orleans gets a bad rap in the media, just because people report what they see on TV from the outside.  But you get down to experiencing it, it's just like any other place.   
  
  Q.  Have you learned a lot?  Of all the places you could play in the NBA, it's kind of an interesting one anyway.  Have you learned a lot?  Have you taken away much from the whole experience?   
 DAVID WEST:  Again, it's always an opportunity to learn.  Being here, you know obviously, keeps you grounded.  You can't kind of go out of trying to get away and get into a comfort zone.  There is always something going on.  Something with people going on here.  It's just like a lot of places.  People need help, it's just on other folks who have the ability to be decent enough.   
  
  Q.  Obviously, you can't fix that, and this team can't fix that.  But in a way, people kind of expect you to give an awful lot.  Is that a different kind of pressure than most athletes are facing?  What is it like?  You guys have that power, but you don't have that much time.  You can't fix this.   
 DAVID WEST:  Well, again, you've just got to do what you can.  It's not like the issues going on here are any different, because there are issues going on in a lot of other places.  I think because of the disaster of Katrina, maybe things that have come after that.  You have short periods of time that you can jump in and help out with a playground at a school or put some books in a library.  Again, just never forgetting.   
 Really, a lot of people less fortunate than we are are sitting in a lot of situations that we've been fortunate to be out of.  But you can't forget about it, like I said.  You can't forget about those who necessarily don't have any power to effect real change in their life.   
  
  Q.  Do you think being an All-Star might empower you to bring some recognition to causes you care about?   
 DAVID WEST:  Well, again, it's just -- obviously it's an opportunity to let it build.  Shed light on everything that's going on throughout this season.  You know, guys have been asking me about security and safety and all those other things.  I just tell them, some places you can go, some places you shouldn't go.  But you can't let that overtake your mind, and prohibit you from having a good time.   
 I think being a part of this event, being part of what the NBA's doing this weekend, hopefully it brings some good light.  Some good press to this area.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT