NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: WARRIORS VS SPURS
May 15, 2017
David West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  It was a dangerous play, [Gregg Popovich] said ask David West about how dangerous a player he is.  
DAVID WEST: Who?   
 Q.  Pop said this morning.  You and Pachulia have a history.  Any response to that?  
DAVID WEST: I mean, Zaza's my teammate.  He plays hard.  We're just trying to win.  That's as far as it's going to go.   
 Q.  How about when you two got into it?  What was that about?  
DAVID WEST: Just playing hard, man.  He's an aggressive guy.  That's who he is.  That's who he's always been.   
 Q.  Do you figure this is kind of playoff theatrics for Pop to go off like that this morning?  
DAVID WEST: I've got to see it.  He went off?   
 Q.  Yeah, he ripped Zaza pretty much.  He said he was angry:  I'm very, very angry.  It was unsportsmanlike.  That move was outlawed years ago, the double-step move, lead-in to defend.  
DAVID WEST: It's just a tough play, man.  Tough play.   
 Q.  If he wasn't your teammate, would you be looking at it the same way?  
DAVID WEST: There is no way.  I don't know how to answer that.   
 Q.  There's no way?  
DAVID WEST: There's no way to quantify that.  I don't know how to answer that.   
 Q.  Is it because it's Kawhi it makes it a bigger deal, because he's their best player?  
DAVID WEST: Yeah, maybe.  But things happen in the league, man.  You know, everybody's trying to compete.  Everybody wants to win.  But things happen.   
 Q.  You know Pop really well.  Do you think he's trying to set the tone, talk to the officials through the media?  
DAVID WEST: He wants to win.  Everybody wants to win.  So he's going to do and say, I guess, whatever.  We've just got to focus ahead, look to playing better.   
 Q.  As a big man, when you are challenging from the three-point line, at some point do you tell yourself to stop?  I can't run too far?  
DAVID WEST: You just try to avoid body contact, because you know referees are looking at that.  You don't want to foul guys shooting threes.   
 Q.  Looks like he's going to miss next game, Kawhi.  He was out in Game 6 [of the Western Conference Semifinals], so how does that change the way you guys --  
DAVID WEST: They beat the Rockets without him pretty good in a close-out game.  They're a very, very good team.  They've got a lot of players over there.  So we have no intention of letting our guard down.  We know that they're very capable and that system is as strong as it's been.  There is no deviation in terms of our attack and our game plan.  We'll go out and try to protect our home court.   
 Q.  What do you remember about playing against Zaza?  
DAVID WEST: He's tough.  He's 285 pounds.  He's strong.  I mean, he's an NBA pro.  I don't know what else that you want from him or what you want him to do.  He is who he is.   
 Q.  What did you and Steve [Kerr] talk about over there?  How great is it to see him out on the court again?  
DAVID WEST: Yeah, we just were checking in.  He's looking better, smiling, up on his feet, so that's always a good sign for us.   
 Q.  How active was he today?  
DAVID WEST: Pretty active.  He was controlling the show.  Kind of let us know his thoughts on how the game went and some adjustments he wants us to make.   
 Q.  What did he say at halftime that meant so much to you guys?  
DAVID WEST: Really the same thing he's always said, just reiterating the point that:  I don't think we did a good job of executing what we talked about in the first half.   
In terms of details, being succinct with our movements and things like that against a strong defensive team like the Spurs.   
 Q.  Is it an extra boost for you guys to have him back around?  
DAVID WEST: Yeah, he's the head coach, so his message is the message that got us to this point.  He's been the voice all year.  So obviously you get the head coach back in the mix, it's always good.   
 Q.  Did you feel you guys were rusty coming out of the gate last night?  
DAVID WEST: Rusty?  Oh, I don't know.  I just thought we started the game too lax, just sort of let them establish themselves.  And they're a very, very good team.  So you allow a team like that to establish themselves early, they can get off to a big, big lead.   
 Q.  What were they able to do to get all the offensive rebounds.  That was such a stressed thing for you guys in here all week?  
DAVID WEST: Yeah, they've got size, so we've got to be careful about getting our smaller guys messing with their big guys.  They've got two 7-footers out there.  So it's going to be a combined effort and a group effort.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT