NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: WARRIORS VS SPURS
May 13, 2017
David West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How much insight are you providing leading up to this series?  
DAVID WEST: It's no more than it would be with any other team.  Just familiar with them and sort of the way they do things, not only because I was there last year but just being in the league a long time.   
 Q.  In what ways do you chime in and point things out?  
DAVID WEST: Just things that have been consistent throughout the years.  Really that's it.  Just sort of lending my experience and the things that I know, having competed against them for a lot of years.   
 Q.  Is that something that like during the scout video or whatever you can chime in or is it more you might individually talk about it?  
DAVID WEST: It's what I did against Portland and Utah, it's the same deal, just nothing different.  If there's a place where I feel like I can give some insight, I do it.  That's just sort of the way our group is.  Everybody does it.   
 Q.  Having been there last year, are you excited about this matchup?  Do you have any different emotion about it than if it was any other team?  
DAVID WEST: No.   
 Q.  Really?  
DAVID WEST: We got to win a seven-game series.   
 Q.  Do you see some similarities between Mike [Brown] and Pop and stuff they pull together regarding defense or anything?  
DAVID WEST: Yeah, you can see, I think the communication, that's one of the things that everybody sort of picks up from being around Pop, knowing how to talk to guys, get your point across.  I think he's done a good job of that.   
 Q.  Kevin [Durant] was saying yesterday it doesn't really matter who they have on the floor, they're dangerous and they'll try to establish their tempo, whatever that might be.  What's your take on that?  
DAVID WEST: Yeah, it's a system, it's a strong system.  They're able to plug guys in and out because the system is so strong.  Just got to be prepared, deal with the consistency of sort of what they do defensively, the ball movement, offensively, obviously, and being able to contain their scorers.   
 Q.  What's the difference in systems and philosophies between these two organizations that have been really successful?  
DAVID WEST: Pop wants to play big, still tries to work inside, obviously this group is perimeter oriented, speed oriented, so it's going to be a pace thing, who can control the pace.  Obviously who executes better in key moments of the game.   
 Q.  How about culturally between these two organizations, you got to be in two organizations, one that the culture is very healthy and now the Warriors, their culture is being talked about constantly.  
DAVID WEST: Just other than the freedom, it's high level people, folks taking care of your bodies and just sort of creating the environment where everybody's strengths are brought to the forefront.  I think that's where both organizations are sort of similar.  Obviously it's just different philosophies in terms of style of play and approach.   
 Q.  What did you mean, freedom?  
DAVID WEST: I mean there's a lot of freedom inside this system.  Like I said, to play to your strengths, to bring the best of what you bring out.  I think the Spurs do that to an extent.  They try to put their guys in the best possible situation based on their ability.   
 Q.  How much of the basics of boxing out, talk about that --  
DAVID WEST: That's a detail thing.   
 Q.  But in terms of limiting them to one chance on the offensive end.  
DAVID WEST: Yeah, if we're, defensively, if we're solid, then we'll keep bodies on bodies.  But if we get scrambled defensively, that's when they get offensive rebound opportunities when we don't have great balance, maybe there's not communication on that possession.  But it's just going to come down to just focusing on every shot, hitting them first and making sure we do create space.   
 Q.  From the outside we always heard that LaMarcus was having difficulty at first adjusting to the Spurs' system.  What exactly was the most difficult thing for him to adjust to and do you feel like he's made that adjustment?  How do you think he's playing?  
DAVID WEST: He's playing great.  Obviously he's a dynamic scorer.  I think just for him it was just getting comfortable.  I don't know if it was necessarily fitting in.  He was in Portland for a long time and just sort of set in his ways in Portland and he went through an adjustment period, he was trying to figure out sort of what he had to do in the best possible way to be successful with the Spurs.  I think he's done a good job of that.  Obviously he's a load. Just got to make things difficult for him.   
 Q.  Is this team looser than the Spurs?  
DAVID WEST: Looser?  Maybe slightly because the guys are younger.  So maybe.  Maybe that has something to do with it.   
 Q.  Were the video sessions with Pop fun and as well?  Like does he poke fun at guys?  
DAVID WEST: Yeah.  Yeah.   
 Q.  I heard he was funny.  
DAVID WEST: Yeah, he is.   
 Q.  Mike Brown did say that his time around the Spurs last year, he learned X's and O's, but he also, he referenced communication that he learned just how Pop has continued to evolve with today's NBA player.  Have you seen Mike transfer some of that even just reference to communication?  
DAVID WEST: He's just learned, I think you sort of have to keep pace, keep up with I guess the way that young players are evolving and developing, so that's something that Pop has been able to do and guys who get those coaches who go in and around and learn that, that's what, that's the first thing you sort of pick up from him is the direct speak, there's nothing hidden, all the information, everything, everybody's focus and goal is out front and anything sort of hidden or your own personal agenda is going to get sort of exposed if you're not brought into the group.  The best way to get that point across is through communication.   
 Q.  Was it a tough decision to leave the Spurs?  
DAVID WEST: No.  It was just, I got the freedom, you know, just to pick a place to go play ball and leaving there wasn't tough.  Obviously it was just something I wanted to do.  It was like a sort of one of those things on my bucket list.  I always wanted to play for the Spurs, see what the inside of the organization felt like.  Really last year was really the only opportunity I had in my career to do it.  Took a shot at it.  I felt like coming up here to play, experience this environment, it's all worked out.   
 Q.  It basically came down to you felt like the Warriors had the best chance to be in contention for a title?  
DAVID WEST: I just wanted to experience this environment.   
 Q.  Was there an added level of enjoyment that it's turned out this way, that you're going to be facing them, not that you have animosity, but just that you know them and that?  
DAVID WEST: No, I think it was expected.  I think coming in you look at it, I think this matchup is sort of what everyone sort of expected toward the end, so it's not one way or the other, we sort of knew it was out there, we just got to prepare as best as possible.   
 Q.  How tough is it to get to a championship in this league?  
DAVID WEST: It's hard.  A lot of things have to come together.  To advance is hard.  Energy's got to be right, chemistry's got to be right, everybody's focus has got to be right.  It takes a lot.   
 Q.  When you've been on teams that have fallen short, what happened?  
DAVID WEST: One of those components I just mentioned wasn't there.   
 Q.  How special has this been for you?  And has it exceeded maybe what your hopes were?  
DAVID WEST: It's been great.  High level guys, a lot of learning every day, just everybody's sharing information and sort of figuring things out.  We have had some ups and downs, a little rough patch, adversity we dealt with when KD goes out, but it's been all positive.   
 Q.  At this stage of your career is it kind of a dream game to be in this situation?  
DAVID WEST: Yeah, it's a big focus, but this is why, this is sort of the environment that best suits me in terms of where I am in my career and sort of where these guys are aiming and their aspirations to win are right in line with what I want to do at this stage.   
 Q.  What was it about the Spurs that you wanted to be a part of and when did you make the decision that you wanted to be a part of it?  
DAVID WEST: As a child.  David Robinson was my favorite player, Tim Duncan was my favorite player.  It was like a bucket list thing.   
 Q.  What else is on your bucket list beyond basketball?  
DAVID WEST: I don't know.   
 Q.  Come on.  
DAVID WEST: Traveling the world.  I want to see as many corners of the world as possible.   
 Q.  Tomorrow is Mother's Day and I met your lovely wife.  What are your plans?  What are you going to do after the game?  
DAVID WEST: Get ready for a basketball game.   
 Q.  After the game?  
DAVID WEST: Maybe dinner.   
 Q.  Maybe?  
DAVID WEST: Yeah.  Dinner.  Some flowers.  She will get some flowers.   
 Q.  Do you know what country you'll go to after this season is over with?  What's on the list?  
DAVID WEST: There's a few.   
 Q.  Can you share those?  
DAVID WEST: Not right now.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT