GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 26, 2016
David West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  David, first of all, welcome to the Bay Area.  Second of all, you had a decision you had to make over the summer, you could have gone to I'm sure other places.  You chose to come here.  What are the reasons in your mind why you decided to make this jump?  
DAVID WEST: I came to win, an opportunity to win, have fun.  Continue in this journey and making every day mean something, which is important to me at this stage.  So this opportunity to win, opportunity to play in a pick and roll system, pretty much it.   
 Q.  We heard a lot about recruitment of Kevin Durant, what was the process like that got you here?  
DAVID WEST: They reached out science we lost to OKC, maybe that night, my agent was like if you're interested this playing or continue to play, Golden State wants you.  He was obviously talking to a few guys and to the coach during the process.  Then when Kevin Durant reached out, he told me he wanted me to come join, so it was a no-brainer.   
 Q.  How well do you know the guys on this team?  Describe some of your relationships with the guys you do have over the years?  
DAVID WEST: You know, I know just about everybody except for the few really young guys.  I've been competing against these guys for a lot of years.  And obviously having some connectedness with a few guys.  I know the type of caliber guys they are, what they bring, the type of attitude they have forward the game and their approach.  Felt like I could fit in.   
 Q.  Have you talked to Bob Myers and Steve about what they expect your role might be?  
DAVID WEST: Yeah, we've had some conversations about it.  Yeah.   
 Q.  Welcome to the Bay Area, as well.  You've been around the league a while.  Have you seen a media day of this size and number of people?  What does that tell you about the situation you're getting into here?  
DAVID WEST: I don't think I've been a part of one this big.  Obviously the stakes are high.  So a lot of talent, high caliber group of guys with some pretty big expectations.  So the environment is what I expected.   
 Q.  When you say that you've had those conversations with Bob and Steve on your role, what does that exactly mean?  Are you supposed to keep people in check?  
DAVID WEST: I'm just going to be a basketball player on this team.  Play a couple of different positions.  Play to my strengths.  Be able to play at the top of the floor.  Set a lot of screens.  So I mean it's about impact as a basketball player, and obviously being able to provide some leadership, a steady calm in the locker room.   
 Q.  When you come to a new team how long does it take to feel comfortable to speak your mind like you have in other places that you've been?  
DAVID WEST: It doesn't take long.  It's not about being overbearing or anything.  It's about just having a clear message, being able to address issues when they arise.  But this is a professional group.  These guys are high caliber guys who try to compete at a high level every single night.   
 Q.  You mentioned some of the issues that may pop up.  This is going to be about lash about Kevin coming here.  Do you feel that's part of your role to help him walk him through this season, it's going to be a lot different for him than past seasons?  
DAVID WEST: Every year NBA teams change.  I think there's more for us because of his name and the caliber of guy he is.  But he made a decision that he doesn't regret, obviously.  And it was in his best interests.   
 Q.  You made a similar decision last year to go to San Antonio, that didn't work out quite the way you wanted it to.  What did you feel about all the winning and tradition there?  
DAVID WEST: Obviously we didn't finish the way we wanted.  But the year, itself, is what I was looking for.  To be grounded, really be humbled by witnessing guys who at the top of their craft, both coaches and players.  Being able to be in that environment really enriched me beyond just a year.   
 Q.  Obviously there's a lot of talk right now, a lot of curiosity about how teams feel about the anthem and what every player might do.  Is that something you think you guys will talk about as a team or is it a purely individual thing and everybody just let's everybody handle it the way they want?  
DAVID WEST: I think it's going to be some discussion between the group of guys.  Obviously the protest is based on personal convictions.  Guys shouldn't be forced or obligated to do it.  But guys who want that space should feel free in that space to do what they feel like is right.   
 Q.  You talked about your experience with the Spurs last year.  But how did that experience inform your decision this summer in choosing a team or a situation?  
DAVID WEST: Well, I mean it just helped in terms of knowing the caliber of the organization and obviously the caliber of players that are needed.  Having that comfort level and being able to go into an environment like San Antonio where they have system guys, and guys that know just about everything, and being able to apply those concepts to myself.  I felt like I learned.  I can bring of some of what I learned here moving forward.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT