TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 7, 2011
Donnie Carona
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q. Can you talk about the atmosphere in the locker room coming off a big win, maybe the team that's too much confidence and now you've lost two straight. What's the tenor in the locker room?
 DONNIE CARONA: I mean, of course, after the loss, it's down; and after the second one it's down some more. But our coaches do a good job. I think the seniors do a good job of making sure after Sunday you watch the film and you can't sulk on the last game. You have to go back and be excited for the next one. 
 We only get 12, maybe 13 games a season. And you can't waste that opportunity after all the work that we do in the spring and in the summer. 
 That's the fun part. So you can't sit around and sulk on the past. You have to go forward and beat the next team, because in the Big 12 I think the Big 12 is one of the top conferences right now. And there's little room for error. You can play the best and you can beat the best but if you don't play good you could lose to the worst. And that's how everyone's competing.

 Q. Would you talk about what Saturday's going to be like for you and playing your last game at Jones Stadium and kind of how your career has gone here?
 DONNIE CARONA: Yeah, I mean, it's real special to me. It's been a long career. Started really slow. And I'm thankful for what I've been able to do this year and for kind of the second opportunity. It's special for all the seniors.
 And for everyone on the team, kind of being the last home game, wanting to show the fans how we can play, show them how we played in OU and bring it to the Jones, because it's our house. And I'm excited for it.

 Q. (Question off microphone)
 DONNIE CARONA: I worked pretty hard this past spring and summer knowing it was my job to lose. And kind of just realizing that football is just a game and having fun with it. And if you don't realize that, then you won't succeed. 
 So if something wrong does happen, if it gets blocked, you gotta go past that and just take everything and have fun with it and that's been the biggest deal.

 Q. (Question off microphone)
 DONNIE CARONA: Yes, I have my rituals I do before and after every kick, kind of keep me focused no matter what's going on in the game. I can't react to what the team's doing or anything. Kicking is kind of a separate deal. And you just gotta stay focused the whole game.

 Q. How has your confidence been compared to earlier in your career?
 DONNIE CARONA: It's definitely a lot better. Misses and makes. And that helps out a lot. Even if something goes wrong. Over the four years I've learned a lot from Matt. He's a very cool and collective guy and I think that's why he was very successful. That's helped me out.

 Q. Any rituals, can you elaborate on that a little?
 DONNIE CARONA: I won't go into too much detail, just little things, just do everything the same every single time. That's what kick's all about, doing the exact same thing every single kick, every single time no matter what it is extra point or 52-yard field goal. Make sure everything's going the same way no matter what's going on.

 Q. Since the Kansas State game, you guys change anything technique-wise --
 DONNIE CARONA: We worked pretty hard on that unit. I think Kerry Hyder came in, took the place of one of the guys and he's done a really good job. And I think kind of notice it's another offensive play to get points and that field goal team does mean something.
 I think they understand that. And they've done a real good job since then.

 Q. Can you explain your stretching routine? 
 DONNIE CARONA: Yeah, I've got a good little stretching routine. Coach Walker has done a good job with that. Get a lot of stretching done. The kickers, we stretch a lot at practice. There's not much else for us to do. It helps get the leg up.

 Q. Is there one kick that you'll take with you, at the time, go forward and 30 years from now, you'll tell the story about something that was real significant or something that we haven't seen that was significant?
 DONNIE CARONA: One of my big kicks, I think, probably doesn't stand out, but I guess the Texas game in '08. I was having a really tough year. And I still had far field goals and I had the opportunity to come in make a kick and I think it meant a lot to the game and helped the team out. It was real big still, keep you going forward, because I had to kickoff to keep my confidence going. And that was a really big kick, and all the kicks this year have been really good. I've enjoyed being out there being able to help the team out whenever they need me.

 Q. (Question off microphone)
 DONNIE CARONA: That was one of my really close friends. We've tried to be there with them the whole time. It's been real tough. I know the outlook is a lot different than what it is around here. People view him a lot different than it should. But I hope they respect him and realize the work he's put in and what he's done for this program and he deserves the respect and the applause.

 Q. Has his persona changed in the time that you've known him? More outgoing, less outgoing?
 DONNIE CARONA: No, not at all. He hasn't changed at all. He's a great guy and a great friend and a great teammate. He's a great player. And he's shown that recently, what he can do. And that's it.

 Q. Has he had the respect of his teammates all along or just --
 DONNIE CARONA: No, I think he's had the respect all along. He was older than me, when I came in, because he gray shirted and red shirted. But ever since I've been here, as a freshman, I've looked up to him. And he's taught me the ropes, too, what to do and what not to do and he deserves the respect.

 Q. How disappointing to you as players, sometimes do you feel like, hey, we're all wearing the same color shirt over here, is it sometimes demotivating and disappointing when you hear the reaction when Adam makes a big catch and people don't respond positively?
 DONNIE CARONA: Yeah, I hate it. I've never liked it since the start. And like I said, I think he deserves the respect that we all get. Because he's playing for the same team and he's busting his butt for the team to do better. And he's got the team, and that's all we need, is each other. 

 Q. (Question off microphone)
 DONNIE CARONA: I do not know.

 Q. From that standpoint, seem to remember who among the seniors, one of the first guys you met and (inaudible)?
 DONNIE CARONA: I guess among the seniors, you know, I was the only person out of my class not to redshirt. And so I guess I came in with a different group of guys than I'm going out with. 
 But I guess Adam was one of my closest friends that I'm going to be graduating with. But I've also met a lot of people through it, met the seniors, gotten a lot closer to the seniors, especially being our senior year, we have a lot of different meetings than some of the other members on the team. And so we kind of grow closer. 
 Jesse Smitherman is a deep snapper, got closer to him. And Brad Hicks is one of the other kickers. So I've gotten really close to those guys.

 Q. Is it weird to think that it's been four years, a bit short, a bit long --
 DONNIE CARONA: It's definitely flown by. Maybe had a long season, but it's definitely flown by. I can remember my recruiting trip. I can remember getting here for the first day. I met Seth my first day. I thought he was like 22 years older than I was. But it's definitely flown by, but it's been fun. And coming to realize that I've enjoyed it is definitely making it better on and off the field.
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT