BARBASOL CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2018
Sam Ryder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How do you think you played today?
SAM RYDER: Just asking about my game today?
Q. Yeah.
SAM RYDER: The final result was okay.  Take 4-under; it was a long day.  I felt like I played better than the score indicated, but to finish with a couple birdies kind of salvages a decent round.
I only had one little quick practice round on this course so I was a little unsure on some of the tee balls.  Felt like I hit some good tee shots that I didn't get rewarded for.
At the end of the day, I'll take 4-under.
Q. What about Brittany's game?
SAM RYDER: She is a very, very impressive player.  I mean, her record speaks for itself.  She's won, I don't know, close to ten times on the LPGA.  Great player.
I mean, it's a different game obviously, but, I mean, watching her hit some of the shots she hits, spinning some of those wedges back, how solidly she hits a lot of her irons, I mean, she hits her driver very -- I mean, she's a very solid player.  It's a little different.  I think she had a little bit of nerves early, but it was fun.
She's the sweetest person in the world so we had a good time.
Q. She told us the other day she's pretty chatty on the course.  Was she chatty with you guys?
SAM RYDER: No, she wasn't too chatty.  We talked a little bit early.  I know I have a couple friends that play on the LPGA, Jacqui Concolino who I went to high school with and Kim Kauffman who was from Lake Mary where I'm from.  They were kind of texting me when they saw --I knew I was going to play with Brittany for about a week now before John Deere.
When they saw the tee times they texted me.  They were like, I know you're going to welcome her with open arms.  I was like, What do you think, I'm just going to not talk to her on the course?
No, they were all happy that I got paired with her.  They called me and asked me about the pairing and I had no issues.  Happy to play with Brittany.  I would play with her every day if she wanted to.
She's just a great person.  So even though I know she's probably a little disappointed with her final score, she had a smile on her face all day.
Q. If it wasn't for the two par-3s it would be a whole different ballgame for her.  Was it just the two?
SAM RYDER: Yeah, and she had -- I mean, on 17, which was our eighth hole of the day, I mean, because we're hitting drives and I had a 5-wood that I hit long on the green.
She kind of just played it three-shot hole.  Got to her wedge number.  She hit it inside both myself and Conrad in there.  Just shows you how she was kind of playing it to her game, you know, her way.  Kind of the same way when Zach Johnson won the Masters.  He didn't go for one single par-5.
She had a couple birdie putts that she could have made.  If she made a couple of those things might've been a little bit different just to get a little bit of momentum.  Who knows?
She was just a great sport out there.  Like I said, she had a smile on her face all day.  I know she's a little disappointed.  She hit it really well, with a couple -- she had a couple big numbers, but if she rolled a couple putts in she could have been right around par or couple under.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT