JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 15, 2018
Sam Ryder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Sam, 5-under 66 today; finished 19 under par.  Really good week.  Thoughts on how you performed here in the final 18 holes?
SAM RYDER: I played really solidly all week.  I mean, nothing really changed.  I've been feeling really good about my game.  Coming off a nice final round in Connecticut at Travelers.  Just I knew it's all been there, it's all been close, and I've been playing well.
This week I just -- there was times I was tested, my patience was tested on a course like this where you know you need to make birdies.
Today it was slow getting started.  I hit a bad drive on 2.  Didn't take advantage of some of the par-5s yesterday.
I was just staying patient.  It's so cliche, but that's what I did.  Just let the round come to me.  If I just keep getting looks I know I'm going to make some.
I would've liked to break out of that big tie in second.  I don't know where I'm going to finish now.
But, you know, I just had a couple really good putts that I felt like -- obviously I wasn't going to catch Michael.  We knew we were playing for second place at that point.
But every FedExCup point matters for me right now.  Been trying to get to the FedEx Cup Playoffs.  I'm proud of myself for the way I played and the way hung in there, especially when I didn't hit some of my best shots.  I just kind of made a couple tough pars.  It was nice to see some putts go in.
Q. Speaking of FedExCup points, you were 148 in the standings coming in; now you're pretty much well inside the top 125 based on the points you picked up.  That's going to fluctuate here as the round comes to an end, but that's huge as you go here in the next month or two.
SAM RYDER: Yeah.  Anyone is lying if they say they're not thinking about that.  That's our job security for next year.  This is my first year on TOUR and that's kind of the toughest year to keep your card.
I've seen a lot of my buddies have success.  I knew I had such a good year last year on Web.com.  I knew I belonged out here, but it was a slow start to the year.  It was a bad fall for me, and I've been a little bit behind the eight ball a little bit.
It's nice to put a good week together here and make life a little easier on myself.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT