SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 3, 2019
Sam Ryder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. These are challenging holes coming in.
SAM RYDER: Yeah, you want to kind of get 16; other than that, I hit a poor tee ball. Yeah, you'll take par on 17, and 18 is a good hole.
All in all happy with the day. After getting off to a bogey on my 1st hole I'll take it for sure.
Q. Tell me about the eagle at 9.
SAM RYDER: Really I hit a perfect drive. I had like about 250 hole or something and just kind of scooted a little like 3-iron that landed just short of the green and kind of bounced up there perfect and was able to knock it in. It was a six, seven-footer. Just one of those things that just worked out perfect; doesn't always work out like that.
Q. Seems like the greens are close to perfect this week. You made more than 95 feet of putts in the opening round. The consistency out here must be pretty good.
SAM RYDER: Yeah, I'm really happy, comfortable on these greens. My last round I played here I shot 9-under in the final round last year and was able to get the putter rolling. I had two three-putts today which I'm a little disappointed about. I think that's a product of me being very confident and trying to make a lot of putts.
I'm very aggressive because I feel like I can make a lot of putts. I'm not really scared of the come-backers because they're nice, pure bent greens. Yeah, it's always nice to see a few putts go in.
Q. I saw you practicing earlier this week and you seemed so frustrated and a little defeated that you missed a couple of putts. What was it that clicked this week?
SAM RYDER: Yeah, no, I've actually felt pretty good with my game. I think Greenbrier I had it going after the first two days and just didn't have a good weekend. Felt like I should've made the other two cuts.
I played well in the fall last year. I know how important it is to get off to a good start. It can change your season and kind of set you up for the year. Having good memories here, you know, playing well here last year, had some confidence. Worked hard. My coach is here this week, so was able to kind of get something going and hit it nice today and was able to make some putts.
Q. I saw you working with your coach. What specifically were you addressing?
SAM RYDER: I've been kind of getting the club a little too -- not to get too technical -- but just too high. My arm is getting a little too high. It's been hard for me. I've been a little too steep, so I been trying to shallow the club out. Trying to get it a little deeper, a little more around my body.
I was literally looking at videos from this tournament last year because I was hitting it great. I was just trying to think about what I was doing. We're not trying to reinvent the wheel. Just get back to some of the good things I've done over the years.
That's really all it was.
Q. 65 on the opening round scorecard with an eagle thrown in there. You had a Top 5 at this event last year. What do you like about the course? What helps you out?
SAM RYDER: I feel really comfortable on the greens. I think I saw that today. I was able to make some putts. And just coming from Napa, those poana greens are a little tougher for me growing up in Florida. These greens are perfect.
Had a couple three-putts and I think that is a product of me being very confident on the greens, very aggressive, so not afraid of the come backers.
All in all, I'll take it. It was a solid day, and you always take 6-under to start.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT