SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 5, 2019
Sam Ryder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Nicely done. 64 out there today, unfortunately with a bogey at 18. Tell me about that shot at 16 in amongst the pine trees. You couldn't really see the flag stick. Beautiful shot there.  
SAM RYDER: Yeah, I told my caddie, Dave, I said that he was going to have a hard time convincing me not to hit that at that green.   
I got lucky really. Got lucky that I had a shot when I got there. I hit a really, really good shot, but I got lucky that I had a window, the lie was good.   
Yeah, so when I got up there, we heard a couple claps so we were kind of looking for it. It's hard to see them out there, but I don't think maybe they couldn't even see me from hitting from in the trees.   
Yeah, I got lucky to have a window. Hit a nice putt; nice putt on 17, too.   
All in all, I'm happy. Satisfied with the round.   
 Q.  You're going to be a few shots out of the lead, but as you know, this golf course yields a lot of birdies. You're in a position now. What do you tell yourself or what do you feel like have to do tomorrow in order to possibly get in the winner's circle?  
SAM RYDER: Yeah, I'm not going to change anything. I told my caddie, I said, on 16 sure 17, I said, We need to just keep playing the same way we're playing. Stay aggressive. Guys are going to continue to make birdies.   
Last year I shot 9-under on Sunday and jumped my way in to contention. You've seen that when guys have won in the past, all the way back to when Smiley won. I knew Cantlay won, but Jacob posted really early. Last year I had a chance but Bryson ended up winning.   
But I know there will be guys that go off early and shoot low scores. It's hard to look at some of those numbers when you haven't even tee'd off you see 8s, 9s out there, and not play impatient.   
So I'm going to try and stay patient but really stick to the same game plan and take advantage of the par-5s. There are some birdie chances if you hit some good tee balls.   
So, yeah, same thing really.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT