THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 26, 2018
Sam Ryder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Right now, we don't know, it's right on the cusp line.  I know it's not the back nine you wanted, but it means something with your back against the wall to birdie the last two, and you did.  That's got to feel good?
SAM RYDER: Yeah, it did.  I was kind of anxious, even kind of this morning.  It was weird because I've been in contention this year a couple times.  I had a good chance to win in Houston.  I finished second at John Deere.  Had a chance to win at Barbasol.
This kind of compared, the same, and it was weird, being in 20th place coming into today, I just knew it was going to be a battle on a course like this and I was going to be on the bubble.  I guess it's a testament to how badly I want to keep playing in the Playoffs and how much it means to us.
Yeah, just having the nerves and not really being in contention to win the golf tournament was a different feeling for me.  But yeah, it just would mean a lot going forward, getting into tournaments in Malaysia, Korea, early in the year.  It would be nice to get into some of those kind of smaller-field events.
It was just tough.  The winds were a little swirly and made a couple mediocre decisions, but finished with a couple birdies, makes me feel a little better.
Q. You spoke about how it was in your head and it's a different kind of pressure and different scenario.  Everybody is feeling it.  Now we have to watch.  So what do you do?  How do you handle the rest of the day?  Do you even watch golf or take your mind off and say, hey, I did what I can do?
SAM RYDER: Yeah, I won't watch really.  I'm happy with the way I finished.  It was a grind all day.  I kind of held it together early in the front nine.  I had a couple good looks for birdie but no I won't really watch.  I'll probably just hang out, and being a rookie, keeping my card, I've already checked a couple of my goals off the list.
Obviously I really want to play next week in Boston.  It would mean a lot to me, and I love to play.  I have plans to play and I have transportation plans to get there and play.  So I've kind of already in my head been geared up to play.
But I won't really pay attention.  It's out of my control now and a lot is going to happen with guys falling back or going forward.  We'll just see what happens.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT