NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: KINGS v COYOTES
May 18, 2012
Martin Hanzal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Martin Hanzal.   
   
 Q.   Can you first talk about what it was like for you last night watching that Game3?  
MARTIN HANZAL:   It was tough.   It's always tough when you're out, can't help your teammates to win.   
But I thought they played pretty good.   We got to focus on Game4.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about that more, Game4.   You're down 3‑0, zero room for error.   
MARTIN HANZAL:   Yeah, I think it's going to be now or never because obviously they are 3‑0 up.   This is desperation time.   You got to do everything to win because this is pretty much last chance.   
   
 Q.   Talk about the frustration, the reasons why you haven't been able to establish any offensive foothold in any game.   
MARTIN HANZAL:   They have a good team, very good team.   They have a good goalie.   So do we.   Smitty was outstanding.   We have a great team as well.   
Just got to drive more pucks to the net, go at the net, because that's what they do.   They are winning.   I think that's what you got to do.   
   
 Q.   Even if you had shots in the first period, still kept you away.   
MARTIN HANZAL:   They're good.   They have a great goalie, a great defense.   They did something good because they beat Vancouver, St.Louis, now they're beating us 3‑0.   Obviously they have a good team.   
We still have a chance.   That's why they call it best of seven.   Still got a chance.   We got to beat them on Sunday.  
   
 Q.   Can these two days in between help you at all to get the focus back?  
MARTIN HANZAL:   I don't think it matters because in this time of the year, everybody's are excited to play the game.   It's nice to have two days off, regroup, focus every energy on the game.   It's going to be nice.   But I don't think it's a matter.  
   
 Q.   Would you rather get back on the ice sooner than wait till Sunday?  
MARTIN HANZAL:   I don't really care, I already had couple days off.   I'm fresh, ready to go.   
If I speak for my teammates, they're probably happy to take the day off today, practice tomorrow, be ready on Sunday.   
   
 Q.   Is it one game at a time, one practice at a time to make it seem like it's a more manageable task?  
MARTIN HANZAL:   Yeah, for sure.   I think it's pretty much how you said.   Practice at a time.   We have a good day off today.   Good practice tomorrow.   We got to focus everything on the practice.   It's an early game on Sunday.   Just get ready for the game because it's our last chance.  
   
 Q.   There's been talk about embellishment in some of the plays.   
MARTIN HANZAL:   This is hockey.   You kind of expect it.   We know what kind of team they are, they're a physical team.   They're doing a great job.   Just got to suck it up and go at them.   Because we know we can be physical, too, but we got to be disciplined, too.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT