U.S. WOMEN'S MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 17, 2019
Michelle Butler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Today was a lot of golf. How are you feeling?  
MICHELLE BUTLER: Honestly, I feel a lot better right now than I did this morning. I knew going into it, it was going to be a long day. I mean, I played one tournament this summer that was 36 in one day, so stamina-wise, I felt fine, but just like mentally, it's a grind out here. Especially my first match, since it went all 18.   
I definitely wasn't playing my best this morning and I had some loose shots here and there, and was kind of in like a weird mood teeing off. I don't know, just felt a little off in the morning. So kind of found my groove around lunch. Relaxed, cleared my mind, and was more myself this afternoon, just like laughing, having fun. It was good, though, but I'm glad the day's over and I'm glad I get some rest tonight.   
I actually made it to the semis last year, so I got the two-year exemption. But it still is nice to make it to the quarterfinals anyway. That's such an accomplishment. I'm playing against the best players in the world, and so to make it to the quarterfinals, the top eight is pretty awesome, especially doing it two years in a row, I'm thrilled.   
 Q.  Last time, you weren't sure what this was about, and now the second time, is there a comfort factor?  
MICHELLE BUTLER: Yeah, I think a little bit. We don't get a lot of match-play tournaments. I played one match-play event. This was this event called Four State Team Championship. I was on Team Missouri and so we got a little bit of match play and that was nice.   
Last year, I had not played a match-play event for real in years. We would play on my team at Mizou; within a team I'm the match-play champion, but still I think I learned a lot last year and was able to carry it over to this year, just staying calm.   
Last year, I would get up early and kind of start to protect it and lose some holes. This year was definitely different where I kept playing like I was down, and treating everything like it was a really important shot or putt or chip.   
 Q.  You mentioned, and sort of seeing you this afternoon, it looked like you had the bounce in your step and you had a good vibe, but how hard is it -- you know you have to have one match where you may be not at your best but you still get through.  
MICHELLE BUTLER: It's funny, so my boyfriend, he's caddying for me right now. My best friend was caddying for me, and she had to go back to Dallas, and he hopped on the bag and we were talking about that; that you're going to have one match where you're off.   
For me last year when I played Shannon in the semis -- I was off. I mean, granted, she played awesome. I am not taking anything way from her. But I was a little off and so I think hopefully the morning match was my only one where I was a little off. Just wasn't quite in my timing, but it's kind of nice to be able to know I struggled in that match and was able to grind it out and fight through to the end and make some clutch putts and shots when I needed it. Yeah, it was good.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT