U.S. WOMEN'S MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 26, 2018
Michelle Butler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Difficult match this afternoon; what can you say about your play and Shannon's play?
MICHELLE BUTLER: I mean, Shannon played flawlessly.  She never made a mistake.  It's easy to make mistakes out here, and a lot of the other people I've played have just made a few mistakes here and there, but she never made one mistake, made putts when she needed to, hit great shots when she needed to.  And I didn't play bad.  I missed a few putts.  I didn't really feel like I was rolling it as good this afternoon as the past couple days.  I just had putts right on the edge and just couldn't really get anything to go in.  Just had some misreads and all of that.  But she played great.
My match this morning was tough against Lauren.  She's an awesome player, too, so it felt good to get that win, but it's still awesome to have made it to the semifinals in my first one.
Q. Just talking about the overall performance, you took out the 2015 champion this morning in an impressive win, and then this afternoon.  What can you say about the week as a whole?  Did it exceed your expectations?
MICHELLE BUTLER: Oh, absolutely.  It was such an incredible week, and I was just happy to get to match play, and then obviously I wanted to keep going.  But it was so fun.  I learned so much, and I feel so great about my game right now.  Like I said before, I haven't played a ton of tournaments just with how busy I've been, so this makes me more excited to play more tournaments.  You know, to finish in the top four against the best amateurs in the country and world, I guess, is pretty cool.  But it was an amazing week.  The USGA and Norwood did an absolutely phenomenal job, and it was a blessing to be out here, and I had my fan club, which was really cool, too.  It was very nice.
Q. I heard a lot of go MB out there.
MICHELLE BUTLER: Yeah, they're always yelling that.  They're funny.
Q. Can you just talk a little bit, too, about -- I know you said you hadn't played a lot of match play recently, and you've said that you feel your game got better as the week went on?
MICHELLE BUTLER: Yeah, it was.  I mean, even this afternoon it wasn't bad, I just really had one bad swing and just really didn't make anything.  Yeah, but just having played five matches and won four out of five, that's good.  Like I said, match play is different.  It's a different beast.  But I think I've learned a lot that way.  I'll definitely take notes watching the Ryder Cup on that.
But I felt good about my game, so even though I didn't come out with a win this afternoon, I'm still pleased where my game is at.
Q. How many people did you hear from this week as the week went on?
MICHELLE BUTLER: So many.  It was really cool.  It was nice to have all that support.  The insurance firm where I work part-time, they were sending out email updates to the whole office.  Like they were texting me and my team.  They were texting updates in the group chat, and like they sent me videos, the head coach videoed them just saying, "Way to go, coach B," stuff like that.  So just a lot of people that have been with me during my golf journey so far have reached out, and it's been really cool.  It's been very nice.
Q. And your mom?
MICHELLE BUTLER: I haven't really talked to her this week.  Like I said, she's kind of been a little weird lately.  I talked to her, I think, after the second day of stroke play, and she was just like, oh, congratulations.  I don't think she realizes how big this tournament is.  But like I said, I could shoot 100, and she'd still think I'm like the best golfer in the world.  Yeah, but she's supportive no matter what.
Q. And you're into this for the next few years now?
MICHELLE BUTLER: Yeah, that's pretty cool.  I can't wait to go to flag staff.  I think my fan crew is already planning the trip, so they're pumped.  But yeah, it'll be cool.  I'm eager for next year already.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT