PUERTO RICO OPEN PRESENTED BY BANCO POPULAR
March 13, 2010
David Chafer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: How did the relationship between Banco Popular and the PGA TOUR first come about? 
 DAVID CHAFEY: Well, we've been supporters of golf and the junior golf program for many years, and also many charity events and have been part of many for many, many decades. 
 And it's important a lot of things that golf does, but a very important one is also giving back to the community. So it's great to have a lot of fun and play golf and do all those good things that we enjoy, but at the same time, the point is that we also give back. 
 So we've been active for many years, and I mean we as a bank and golf, but Popular also. If you go back through our history, giving back is -- if you follow our corporate responsibility, we've been doing this for 116 years.
 THE MODERATOR: It's become a trendy topic, but you really have. 
 DAVID CHAFEY: Right. This is -- it's part of our DNA. It really has been. You see what Popular does and how active we are, and what we expect from our people. It's not just financial contributions. It's a little bit of time also. 
 We have a lot of activities that we do so as to give back. We need to recognize that we've been blessed, and at the same time we appreciate everybody.
 THE MODERATOR: So when you see the four Puerto Rican sponsor exemptions -- or some of them actually qualified for the event through open qualifiers -- going through a trip like that, like Fondos Unidos on Wednesday, that must make you feel pretty good and further that statement, that mission statement you were saying. 
 DAVID CHAFEY: Oh, of course. It's great for obviously Fondos Unidos, and it's a cause that we've been backing up, but for the four youngsters, the four golfers, for them it was an experience, and they recognize that people are impressed to have them there and they're in awe, and at the same time they appreciate the fact that they're coming. So obviously everybody gets a good feeling, and we need to continue that.
 THE MODERATOR: And how is your game? 
 DAVID CHAFEY: And I was at a meeting with the PGA group earlier today, and it was -- I was impressed in how important that was to the PGA. They made -- I asked them, what do you expect from us? What else can we do here? And I was very pleased and impressed to see how important giving back was part of this event. 
 It was, you know, we have to make it clear to everybody, and obviously it's clear to us, the city of golf, everybody sponsoring this, that we want an event that is nice, that people enjoy, that helps tell people outside Puerto Rico what Puerto Rico is all about, and with that we help a lot of people along the way.
 THE MODERATOR: An important part of my job and it makes me feel really good, because we're here for a week, but the impact stays the other 51 weeks out of the year. 
 DAVID CHAFEY: Well, I really was impressed the way that message came through from Scott.
 THE MODERATOR: Scott Massey. 
 DAVID CHAFEY: Right. And from others. Dan.
 THE MODERATOR: Dan Walker. 
 DAVID CHAFEY: And how important that this is a big component of what we do. And I said yes.
 THE MODERATOR: Well, we thank you for that. But just a couple of quick questions on your game. How is your golf game? 
 DAVID CHAFEY: It's okay. We did well Wednesday. Played okay the front nine. Had a great time with John Daly.
 THE MODERATOR: That's right. 
 DAVID CHAFEY: And so you get a little pressure playing with somebody of celebrity and a lot of people following and TV cameras around you.
 THE MODERATOR: You had a few celebrities in your group; right? 
 DAVID CHAFEY: John --
THE MODERATOR: Mr. Trump was here, too. 
 DAVID CHAFEY: He was in front of us. They were ahead of us. No, Donald Trump was in front of us. 
 But John is, and they were filming that reality show, whatever. So we worked on that, and we raced the cameras.
 THE MODERATOR: Will we be seeing you in those pants that John was wearing? 
 DAVID CHAFEY: I know that he's been wearing, I think Loudmouth is the name of the clothing.
 THE MODERATOR: Loudmouth. Correct. 
 DAVID CHAFEY: And obviously you can't miss him on the golf course. I like to dress at times, but not quite that. But he looks good. And it fits him fine.
 THE MODERATOR: Goes in line with his personality. 
 DAVID CHAFEY: And it would be so great for him not only to make the cut, but if he were in the final groups, people in Puerto Rico would really enjoy -- people not in just Puerto Rico, people throughout the region would really enjoy him coming back, after all the things he's gone through and he's coming back, the fact that he's having a nice tournament would be great for him and probably be the best thing to happen for the event.
 THE MODERATOR: It would definitely be an all-positive. I don't see any other news story trumping that in the golf world anyway. 
 DAVID CHAFEY: I didn't tell him, but it would be so nice to have him in the last couple of groups, and will now be Monday.
 THE MODERATOR: Well, to the credit of the staff, I think they've done a heck of a job getting us back and the course in the shape and the DS family and all that. 
 DAVID CHAFEY: From the mood that was, you know, what, Thursday and Friday, yesterday, people were so concerned to what we have now, take a look at the faces.
 THE MODERATOR: I know my friends are having a good time out there. 
 DAVID CHAFEY: People have forgotten about are we going to play or not and we need an extra day, and that's fine.
 THE MODERATOR: Absolutely. That's all I had. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT