NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL CHAMPIONSHIP
September 23, 2015
Martin Jarmond
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Martin, why is OSU involved here?
MARTIN JARMOND: Well, it's just a great way to bring the community together.  We're fortunate and blessed to have great facilities here.  And to be a part of something with Nationwide Children's Hospital, donations and the partnership with the university, it's just a win-win.
It gives our golf courses great exposure.  We feel like we have the best collegiate course with Scarlet, and the new facilities are second to none.  It's a great way to bring it all together and do something with the community that's beneficial for all.
Q. There are very few golfers on this tour that haven't played this course.  They all say it's very challenging.  What does that mean to Ohio State to have this here for the next three years and to know that those players in the last -- before the last golf tournament it's going to challenge them?
MARTIN JARMOND: It means a lot.  You know, it's been a great partnership for us, for Ohio State.  To be able to have them come back, it's a great thing for not only or student athletes but for our community.
We take a lot of pride in Scarlet and as you can tell by the comments from the guys that play it, it's challenging but it's a great course.  It means a lot to us.
We're fortunate and blessed to have these facilities, and what better way to do something for charity and Nationwide and bring it all together.
Q. There has been some recent reinvestment, right, with a building over there?  Just talk about trying to stay ahead of the curve, keeping it cutting edge.
MARTIN JARMOND: Sure.  Yeah, the Walt & Jane Dennis Complex is an unbelievable facility.  I encourage anyone here this week to really check it out.
Yeah, you really want to put your golf programs in a position to be successful.  Especially playing in the Midwest, it allows to us play and practice all year-round.  That's the commitment that we've made to our men's and women's golf program.
We want to be the best, and that's part of what it takes to be the best.
Q. Did you order the weather this week?
MARTIN JARMOND: I did not order the weather this week.  I heard through Sunday it's supposed to be great.  That's just part of the package that comes with playing here at Scarlet.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT