MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2016
Bryson DeChambeau
Jim Nantz
Billy Payne
Danny Willett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  CHAIRMAN BILLY PAYNE: Good evening, I'm Billy Payne, Chairman of Augusta National Golf Club. And I'm excited once again to be here in our famous Butler Cabin, along with my good friend, Jim Nantz. Congratulations, Jim, another wonderful job. 
JIM NANTZ: Thank you.
CHAIRMAN BILLY PAYNE: Jim and I will soon repeat the long‑standing tradition of the award of the Masters champion Green Jacket.
But before we do, I would like to take this opportunity to thank our television viewers all across America, in over 200 countries around the world, for your long‑term and loyal support of the Masters. 
I'm now welcoming three very special gentlemen, this year's low amateur, Bryson DeChambeau. Congratulations. 
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Thank you very much. Appreciate it.
CHAIRMAN BILLY PAYNE: Last year's champion, Mr.Jordan Spieth. Jordan, good to see you, sir. 
And this year's champion, the 2016 champion, Danny Willett. Danny, congratulations. Delighted to see you. Please have a seat, gentlemen, I know Jim has a few questions. 
JIM NANTZ: Thank you, Billy, I'm going to begin with Bryson. Bryson, your preparation for this tournament, the emphasis you put on playing at Augusta, trying to even contend as or win an as amateur, how do you put that into words? 
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Well, it's just an honor, first off, to be able to be the low amateur out here and never in a million years would I ever thought that I would be the low amateur here, but it's quite an honor or and I worked really hard to get to this point and, again, congratulations to you, Danny, great playing. A lot of fun to watch you play out there and good job. 
JIM NANTZ: And what's next for you? 
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Well, next week's Hilton Head. Go turn professional then and I'll look forward to making a hopefully, a check next week. 
JIM NANTZ: Good luck with that. Congratulations on your great play here, tied for 21st. 
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Thank you.
JIM NANTZ: Danny, you had awhile to let this sink in, I'm not sure it has quite yet. You've been on the phone, you Facetimed with Nicole, you're a new dad, you're a new minted Major champion. Life's pretty sweet right now, isn't it? 
DANNY WILLETT: Yeah, it's nice ‑‑ no, it's been crazy. You can't really describe the emotions, your feelings. 
We all go out there and try and play good golf and at the end of the day someone's got to win the golf tournament and fortunately enough today, today was my day.
JIM NANTZ: What was it like out there today trying to chase Jordan on that second nine? 
DANNY WILLETT: It was tough. Every time we seemed to make ground, Jordan kept pulling ahead. And we were just trying to dig in and dig in and try and make birdies and birdies. And I thought we had to get to six or seven. And then I look at the leaderboard and he's already at seven and it was just, it was just a very surreal day, when you look back at the ebbs and flows. And, yeah, fortunate that the shots we hit were correct at that time and we holed a few putts when we needed to.
JIM NANTZ: Who was your inspiration? Only the second Englishman to ever win the Green Jacket.
DANNY WILLETT: Yeah, I know, it's crazy. My wife was born, well, in about 10 minutes time, 28 years ago, it's her birthday back home today. My son was due today and he came 12, 13 days early to, obviously, let me come and play. 
So, yeah, you talk about fate, you talk about everything else that goes with it, it's just been a crazy, crazy week. 
JIM NANTZ: I guess you knew for months that April 10 was the due date, you just didn't know for what, right? Special day indeed. It's time for the Green Jacket.
CHAIRMAN BILLY PAYNE: Jordan, would you please do the honor, presenting our new champion his Green Jacket. Danny, congratulations.
DANNY WILLETT: Thank you. 
CHAIRMAN BILLY PAYNE: Very proud of you. Welcome to our family.
DANNY WILLETT: Thank you.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT