ING NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
November 2, 2011
Molly Pritz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MOLLY PRITZ: The New York City Marathon is really what I went into running for. I was so inspired by the performances in 2008 at the New York City Marathon. I just want to give it my best, and hopefully show them that I care about this race as much as they do.

 Q. Last year was very unique because it was a very conservative start. The race really didn't start until 20 miles in. Something like that happens, you can very well see yourself in a position to compete? Are you prepared and what are your thoughts on that? 
 MOLLY PRITZ: My thoughts on running just distance races in general, I run my pace regardless of what anyone else is doing. The rest of the pack goes out at 6:10 pace. I won't. If they don't, I won't either. 
 I'm not afraid of running by myself or with a group. Whatever I need to do to run my race.

 Q. The other U.S. runners, what are your interactions with them? Are you going to run with them to the best of your knowledge? 
 MOLLY PRITZ: It's always hard to tell. People always want to kind of hide their true goals before a race. Like I said, if we can run together, I think it would be great for everyone, if we can't, you know, I'm fine running by myself as well, and we'll see who gets to the finish line first.

 Q. How did you get into doing more road racing and nothing on the track? It's usually the other way around? 
 MOLLY PRITZ: I didn't run for my college team. I was on a cycling team. I did run like just for fun 40 miles a week and stuff before that. I wasn't super serious. 
 My best friend who I've always been faster than, this time I wasn't running anything, she ran a half marathon. I was like, man, I've got to be able to beat her time. So five weeks later I ran my first half marathon, and I beat her time, but it was the most painful experience of my life because I was so underprepared. 
 After that, I was like man this is enjoyable. It's painful and you have to work hard, so it's my kind of thing.

 Q. How did things progress from there? 
 MOLLY PRITZ: After that, I ran the Philadelphia distance run in 2007, I believe. And I took like six minutes off my half marathon time because I was better prepared. And Jack Daniels contacted me about coaching me, and I didn't have a coach. So I worked with him my junior and senior year of college. 
 Running was always secondary. I focused on my academics. I figured I could run more after college, but I was only in college once, so I wanted to make the most of it. So I kept my mileage low and only raced about twice a year. 
 After that I joined the Hansen's right out of college. I'm no longer with them, I left in June. But at the same time that really helped me take off. It taught me how to focus running and not multi-task, but give running everything I had.

 Q. Did you ever give thought to cycling professionally? 
 MOLLY PRITZ: I did. I usually say it this way, I like cycling. I love my bike. I miss it when I'm in marathon training, but I'm so passionate about running. That always is what I go back to at the end of the day. 
 Plus, I don't know. I love both of them, but cycling and racing is a different feel from road racing, so you've got to go with what you're passionate about.

 Q. The cycling racing that you did, was it track cycling or road? 
 MOLLY PRITZ: It was road.

 Q. Okay. So what has your training been like leading up to this? 
 MOLLY PRITZ: I didn't want to take any real chances with my training just because I wanted to get to the starting line healthy and not overtrained. I was going to debut in Chicago last year, and I was just really overtrained and I got injured eight days before the race, so it's kind of hard making it into everything and not being able to run. 
 So I didn't want to make that same mistake this year. So my mileage was about where it was for the 25 K, I was running 105 to 110 miles a week. And a lot of long tempos. . My coach focused on 10 to 12 mile tempos, everything isn't broken up into intervals. 
 So it taught me that mental strength to go out and do 12 miles marathon pace and make it a regular occurrence, progression runs similar to stints. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT