BOB HOPE CLASSIC
January 23, 2010
Joe Ogilvie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. It looks like a good round out there. Bogey-free 68. What were your thoughts?
 JOE OGILVIE: It could have been a little bit better. Could have been a little bit worse. I made some good par putts on my front side, the back side of the course. 
 I just -- I don't know if the ball's carrying maybe 5% further today, but I hit a lot of shots out there that I was posing on and just went five or six or seven yards further than I thought. 
 So I've never played this golf course well; it doesn't really suit my eye. So 4-under, I would have taken 5 and not teed it up today. So 4, I'm not that upset with. 

 Q. What did you do well out there?
 JOE OGILVIE: I did everything just fairly decent. Nothing great. Nothing -- I drove the ball decently, not great. But I drove it well enough. I hit some good iron shots here and there. I made some good putts. I missed some putts. 
 But all in all, I hit it pretty well. I had two lipouts today that may have been the worst two lipouts, certainly the one was the worst lipout I've ever had in my career, and I still don't understand how it didn't go in. So that would have been my 5-under. 
 So I'm happy. Bubba is not running away from us. So I thought today that -- I thought Bubba could shoot 15-under on those two golf courses, and he still might. But the fact that he's not shooting 7- or 8-under at the Palmer Private helps the field.

 Q. You got two more days left, kind of a unique five-day event here. How do you feel going into the last two days?
 JOE OGILVIE: I feel great. I'm playing well. I feel good with my wedges and I'm playing La Quinta Country Club, which I really like the golf course. And the greens are perfect. So I think that coming into this last -- these last three days, I thought if I can shoot, 15-, 16-under par, I've got a chance. That would get me to 29. And I shot 4 today, so I'm going to need to shoot 12-under these next two days to have a chance to win. But hopefully I can do it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT