DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 1, 2006
Joe Ogilvie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Joe Ogilvie, thank you for joining us after a first round 4 under par 67 here at the Deutsche Bank Championship.  If we can get some opening comments on a good day for you and a good start.
JOE OGILVIE:  Yeah, the course is very nice, I think we're going to have one day of a dry course.  It made it play a lot shorter, probably two clubs shorter per hole, which is very good.  Because the first time I played this was on Tuesday and I thought this is going to be a pretty tough course to score on if you have 3 iron or 4 iron on every hole.  But today I was able to hit some 7 irons, 6 irons, 5 irons into the greens.  You know, played solid.  Made a few putts.  Every cliche, I'll take a 67 every day.
Q.  How is the course    inaudible?
JOE OGILVIE:  I felt I've been hitting the ball very well the last couple of weeks, the last week at the Reno Tahoe Open I played well on Sunday.  I felt like I was playing very well.  I hit the ball great yesterday in the Pro Am.  So it had to help    it certainly helped the scores that it's playing firmer and faster.  The greens were still very receptive.

So the course is in very, very good shape, and the wind is getting a little bit tricky out there kind of swirling a little bit in the trees, but all in all the course, it's not an easy golf course, so there might be a 4 ,  5 , 6 under today.  But 4 under is a good, solid round.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  If we could go through your round, you started on the back side, two bogeys, one of them coming on No. 11, the par 3.
JOE OGILVIE:  I made about a 15 footer for bogey.  The next I took a shot kind of rolled all the way back a little bit further like in the front.  Next hole I made about a 5 footer for birdie.  The next hole, I hit it left of the green and missed a 15 footer for par.  The next hole I hit it probably about 12 feet and made birdie.  18, I made a 7 footer.

No. 1, I made a 1 footer.

No. 2, I made a 2 footer.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  What did you hit in on 1?
JOE OGILVIE:  Sand wedge.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  3 wood off the tee.
JOE OGILVIE:  3 wood off the tee.

No. 2 I hit wedge.  And then No. 8, I hit a rescue club to about 20 feet and made that.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  As far as you mentioned, they are talking about some heavy rains coming in, is that going to be a trade off where the course is going to play a lot longer but the greens are going to be quite a bit softer, is that an equal trade off?
JOE OGILVIE:  Well, the greens are very receptive right now, so I don't think it's an even trade off.  For me it's not because I hit the ball normal.  I hit it 285 to 290, which used to be long.  But you know, it's very mediocre here, pretty short I guess.

It will play more difficult for me just because I'll have 3 iron, 4 iron, as opposed to 5 iron, 6 iron, 7 iron.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Joe, thanks.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT