CIALIS WESTERN OPEN
July 6, 2006
Joe Ogilvie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOHN BUSH:  We've got our co leader at this point at 5 under par, Joe Ogilvie.  Thanks for coming by and spending a few minutes with us.
JOE OGILVIE:  Standing room only (laughter).
Q.  We'll get you to comment on the round.  Obviously a good start.
JOE OGILVIE:  It was a good start.  I hit the ball extremely well.  It was probably    it was just about the highest score I really could have shot.  I think I made birdies    I'll have to go through the birdies.  No. 2 from ten feet.

4 from eight feet.

7 from a foot.

9 from a foot.

15 from ten feet.

Then 17 from eight feet.

I just hit the ball well, hit the ball solid, hit 9 out of 14 fairways and the other fairways that I missed, I hit it in the first cut, so I didn't have    I wasn't taxed out there at all, which is kind of nice on this golf course because it can be a tough course.
Q.  You seemed like last week you had    is this kind of momentum?
JOE OGILVIE:  It's a lot better.  I feel very confident with my swing.  I think I'm hitting the ball well.  For the first time all year, I think I'm putting like I should be.  I've always considered myself one of the top putters out here, and I haven't performed that way at all this year.  I've performed like one of the worst putters.

I just feel more confident, I think.  I think it's showing in my game.  The last couple weeks I've played well, I haven't started very well.  Last week I shot 72 and then 63 the second round, and then the week before that I missed the cut.  I think I shot 74 66.

There's been signs that just haven't    I just haven't performed, and I think last week was hopefully kind of break through the proverbial ceiling.
Q.  It's all been pretty much putting for you?
JOE OGILVIE:  Well, if you're not putting well, I think it puts a little more pressure on the rest of your game, and certainly I've managed to put that pressure on my game.

But I've made a couple adjustments and I feel a lot more confident.
Q.  Was there a good putt today that you made today that was an example of what you're talking about?
JOE OGILVIE:  Well, I just made    I hit a lot of putts where I wanted to hit them, I think, more than anything else.  I made a good par save on No. 6, the par 3, and No. 12, the par 3.  Not long putts by any stretch.  I think maybe six , seven footers, but those are the kind of putts that I had been missing all year.

To get those falling and to really be hitting the ball where I'm wanting to hit it with the putter is the key thing for me.
Q.  You said this was the highest score you could have shot today?
JOE OGILVIE:  Yeah, I mean
Q.  How low do you think you could have gone?
JOE OGILVIE:  Well, I mean, if I would have    you're never going to make all your putts, but I probably missed it from eight feet on 18, I missed it from seven, eight feet on 16, I missed a couple other putts probably inside of ten feet.  I don't want the round over, though, besides that.

I just feel very comfortable right now.
Q.  What did you hit into the 7th?  Or how far out were you?
JOE OGILVIE:  7 I hit a lob wedge.  I think I had 97 yards to the pin, and I probably flew it 103 and it came back to probably a foot.

9 I had 108 yards, I hit a sand wedge to about six inches, a foot maybe.  So yeah, I feel very comfortable.  I'm hitting my little shots when I'm in between clubs better, and I think that's also helped.
Q.  You haven't done real well in the Western historically.
JOE OGILVIE:  Yeah, it's kind of funny.  The Western in 1999 was my first ever Top 10.  I think I shot 4 under and I was Top 10.  I like the golf course, I like Cog Hill, just for whatever reason I haven't performed as well.  But with a lot of wind and the greens getting firmer and the fairways being firm, I feel like I can play well here.
Q.  You were talking about your putting, and I think that's anyone who reads a story can relate to, but when a guy who can putt as well as you have kind of loses it a little bit, how do you explain that and what do you try to fix?
JOE OGILVIE:  Yeah, I don't know how I can explain it.  I went to see this guy named Michael Breed in New York from Sunningdale Golf Club.  He's really into having a big time forward press, and I've never really done that before.  It was one of those things that I've putted so terrible this year that I kind of just capitulated and said, okay, I'm going to do something totally different, and I've been doing that the last three weeks.  I see the ball rolling a lot better.  It's rolling end over end.  It's not going up at the hole and kind of going off left and right because I'm hitting the ball solid.  It's just kind of rolling better, and I think that's certainly helped me.
Q.  So it's just a mechanical glitch, you don't lose it in one area, speed or reading greens?  It's sort of a technical glitch?
JOE OGILVIE:  Well, reading greens has a lot to do with speed, and if you don't hit the ball solidly, it's tough to get your speed, and then it's tough to read the greens properly, and then it just kind of snowballs.

I think the key is to hit the ball in the middle of the club face, middle of the putter face.  I know that sounds very easy, but it hasn't been this year.
Q.  A lot of guys when they have their putting problems, they start switching putters.
JOE OGILVIE:  Yeah, I switched putters for one week.  I've had the same putter    I'm an anomaly out here.  I've had every club pretty much the same    the same club heads.  I've switched the shaft once in the last three and a half years of my irons.  The driver I'll switch once a year, 3 woods I think are four or five years old, 5 wood is four or five years old and my putter is seven years old.  The only time I go into the equipment trailers is to regrip my clubs, so I don't tweak.
Q.  But you did try a new putter once?
JOE OGILVIE:  I did.
Q.  Was it
JOE OGILVIE:  Well, it was just a nice switch.  It's always good to give your putter some dark time.
Q.  To punish it?
JOE OGILVIE:  Hopefully it shapes up eventually.
JOHN BUSH:  Take us through your approach shots on 2 and 4.
JOE OGILVIE:  No. 2, par 3, I hit a 7 iron just below the hole, very easy putt, straight up the hill kind of right to left.

No. 4, I hit a 9 iron six, seven feet, just in the back of the hole, another right to left putt.

No. 15, I hit a 6 iron in there in two and it kind of chased through the back of the green, chipped up to eight, ten feet and then made that putt.

Then 17, hit a big drive and then I hit a little sand wedge in there about eight feet, something like that.
JOHN BUSH:  Joe, nice start to the tournament.  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT