BARCLAYS CLASSIC
June 23, 2005
Joe Ogilvie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Two under today?
JOE OGILVIE:  Par five on the last one, bogeyed it.  Felt like I gave away two shots here.  All in all, a pretty good round.  Obviously, you see the scores are pretty high today.  Pin placements I thought were very difficult. The greens are, even though we had that rain yesterday, the greens are still firm, still fast, two under.  You hate to bogey the last hole but two under is pretty good.
Q.  You think you have an advantage you went out early today, are these going to firm up?
JOE OGILVIE:  Yeah, there are they'll firm up a little bit, but at the same time, pin placement like two, like 11, you can't get to them with soft greens but you can get to them with firmer greens.  There's a give-and-take.
Q.  Does it seem easier, relatively easier because of last week, because of how difficult the golf course was?
JOE OGILVIE:  Well, it's easier, the U.S. Open is the least fun tournament to play in all year.  None of us would play it if it wasn't the U.S. Open.  I love this golf course, I love coming here.  You know what you're going to get as soon as you get here.  You're going to get firm, fast greens, tough pin placements, a lot of rough.  At the same time, if you hit good shots you're going to be rewarded.  So I think it's a fun golf course to play.  If you hit good shots, there's plenty of birdie holes out here.  You can shoot, three, four, five under par.  If you don't, you're off a little bit, it's going to be a tough recovery.  I think it's a very, very fun golf course to play, you know, I think that's why everybody loves coming here.
Q.  How nice when you come in finish your day, see yourself in red numbers --
JOE OGILVIE:  It feels very good.  Normally when you shoot two under on tour, you're like, oh, boy, six, seven, eight back.  I think someone could shoot under par. I think someone could shoot six, seven under today.  They're going to have to make no mistakes, but six, seven, under is not under the realm of possibility out here.  It's a little bit.  The rain it's a little bit softer.  I think today and tomorrow, by the weekend, it will be firmer faster.
Q.  Pace of play, Vijay is saying it's almost excruciatingly slow?
JOE OGILVIE:  It's slow.  A lot of slow players on the PGA Tour and they don't really do anything to make them faster.  Until we get serious about it, it's going to be slow.  You know going in it's going to be slow.  These guys are slow.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT