AT&T NATIONAL
June 30, 2011
Joe Ogilvie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   NELSON SILVERIO: Joe Ogilvie, welcome to the media center here at AT&T National. 67 today. Highlights of the round?   
 JOE OGILVIE: Just a solid round. I think No. 8 I hit it to -- it says one foot, three inches, but it was definitely inside of that. It's a 3-iron today. I think that the average score is going to be well over par, and to make 2 there is just kind of an extra bonus, probably pick up a shot and a half on the field. Then I made bogey on 10. I hit a snapper left, took two to get out of the hazard and got up-and-down from about 90 yards, so I think that kept the momentum going. It's good to stay in red numbers.   
 And I just played solid down the stretch. The putts that I -- the long putts that I had, I was able to two-putt, and the other putts I made a couple.   
  
  Q. What is it about this place that sets up well for you?  
 JOE OGILVIE: It sets up for my eye, and I'm smart enough to figure out this is a golf course where you can miss it in certain places in the fairway and kind of have angles, so if you do hit it in the rough, you can kind of scrape it on the green. And other than 10, I executed my game plan well in the sense of where I missed the shots because I know I'm going to miss a lot of shots. I just want to miss them in the right place.   
 Other than 10, I did that. You can't miss it in the left -- anywhere left on 10, and I hit it left.   
  
  Q. What was the longest putt you made today?   
 JOE OGILVIE: Longest putt was probably on No. 13, 12 feet, I think. Yeah, birdies were from three feet, one foot. I two-putted on 17 and I made a 12-footer. I didn't do anything crazy on the greens, I just played them solid, and that's kind of what -- this course is set up like a U.S. Open. The fairways are a little bit wider, but it's definitely playing very similar, except for this year's U.S. Open. It's playing a lot -- you know, they haven't bulldozed their greens in probably 100 years here, so that's probably a good start.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 JOE OGILVIE: For me if I hit it really solid the left bunker is. Normally I try to sort of blow it right where the spectators are, and it's a better angle. That's the only hole that I think from the back tee it's actually a really poor hole. I think if they moved it up 40 yards, take out the left bunker, bring in the right bunker, it's actually a better hole, because if you miss it left at all, you've hit a really bad shot because the angle to lay up is poor. If you blow it way right, no matter where you are, you've got an easy angle to lay up.   
 I was in the left center of the fairway and I had a much more difficult shot than the two guys I played with that were in the right rough.  
  
  Q. How would you rank this golf course of all the courses you play on TOUR?  
 JOE OGILVIE: I'd rank it very high. I think for me it just sets up from the tee box really, really well. We don't play a lot of holes that you can kind of sit back and you see the whole entire hole from the fairway, and you probably see that on eight or nine holes here, and I just kind of like that look. I think it's just really well bunkered. I think the bunkers are in the right places, and it just kind of sets up well.  
 The greens are very tricky, but they're true. They're just tricky, a lot of hills and dales, and the pin placements today I thought were tough.   
  
  Q. Your conversation with Sean about the name change of Bob Hope, could you kind of talk about that?  
 JOE OGILVIE: I just heard it, Humana Challenge, and that's a good name. But I think that -- like I said, I think that -- look, if Bob Hope were around and said, look, we need to -- we've got a new sponsor, we've got to do a deal and I think it's going to be around for the next 30 years if we can make a name change, I think he takes that in a heartbeat. But having Humana around and having a president kind of put his name on the event for the first time, I think that's kind of an important deal. It kind of goes back to the history. Clinton has already played in the event once. How many presidents did he play with, Ford, Clinton, Bush? So I mean, there's some precedent there. It kind of sucks to have Bob Hope's name off of it, but I think that you've seen that progress. I think the Sammy Davis, Jr., in Hartford, that's been a natural progression. So there's precedent from the PGA TOUR's point of view.   
  
  Q. Can you go through your birdies and bogeys?   
 JOE OGILVIE: Yeah, I birdied 6, 8, 13, 16, one bogey on 10.   
 I hit the ball well. I think on this course if you can hit nine to ten fairways you can make three to four birdies, and you've got to hit the par-5. I think the key thing is that you have to hit the fairway on 16, the par-5, because you can get there in two, and that's the only real gimme birdie out here, assuming you hit the fairway.   
 And like I said, I think that the key to the round was probably making bogey on 10 as opposed to double, and just where I did mis-hit shots and mis-hit drives, I hit them on the right side of the rough or left side of the rough, depending on the hole, where you could get to the green or at least chase it somewhere close to the putting surface.   
 And then it's just how good your short game is and how good your putting is. I'm putting well inside of five feet, and you're going to have a lot of five-footers this week.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 JOE OGILVIE: No, I found the ball in the hazard and I hit it in the hazard once and I left it in the hazard, then I hit it again, got it in the fairway, rolled out of a sand divot by about an inch, so if I go in the sand divot I'm probably going to chunk-hook it left of the water and make 9. But it didn't, and I got up-and-down and made 5. It was 92 yards call it.   
 NELSON SILVERIO: Thanks, Joe.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT