SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 22, 2005
Joe Ogilvie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOE OGILVIE:  I was in a similar position last year.  I think I was in the one shot out of the lead going into the last round last year.

It's a golf course I like.  Last year I played three pretty good rounds.  I'm hitting it well, I'm putting well, I just need to keep plugging away.

The field is really bunched up.  I think pretty much everybody who's going to make the cut is going to be up on eight shots, so it's really bunched up.
Q.  It seems like it's very, very tight out there.
JOE OGILVIE:  Well, it just means a whole lot of guys can win.  It looks like Brett or Gavin is not going to get too out of hand, be 10, 11-under, 12-under at the most, so anyone -- tomorrow is moving day, as they say, and hopefully if I can keep on going one shot lower every day, I'll be in good shape.
Q.  How is 18 playing?  It seems like a lot of guys are having some problems.  Is it fast, slow?  What's the situation?
JOE OGILVIE:  The greens?
Q.  Yes.
JOE OGILVIE:  The greens are slow.  They've got a lot of grass on them, but they're rolling perfect.  You can make a lot of putts, you can charge a lot of putts.  I don't think the ball is breaking as much as we see because the greens are so slow.
Q.  I guess everybody always is asking this, the weather --
JOE OGILVIE:  The weather is perfect.  It's the first time we've had firm, fast fairways the whole year.  It's kind of playing a little bit different, but I love firm and fast.  Hopefully we get a little bit more of the same the next two days.
Q.  On 13, how would you compare that to Tiger's chip on 16 at Augusta?
JOE OGILVIE:  Mine was much more difficult.  I'm just kidding.

Mine was pretty much straight up the hill.  It wasn't a very hard chip at all.  I got to place it so it made it even easier.
Q.  You got to place it?
JOE OGILVIE:  I got to place it because I hit it in the stands.  After two drops and it still didn't stay in place, I got to place it.  It wasn't the easiest chip in the world, but it was pretty elementary.
Q.  Pretty good break there?
JOE OGILVIE:  It was a good break.  I would have taken 3 certainly, and then to make a deuce, it was kind of a steal.
Q.  What happened with the Vijay coronation?  That's what it was starting to look like yesterday.
JOE OGILVIE:  Obviously I didn't see how he played today, but he's still at 9-under.  He's obviously shot 8-under before, so he can shoot 16 under on the weekend, but we'll see.  For him to shoot well under here, he's got to be disappointed, I guess, he's such a good player.  He's had such great success in the past.  While I'm sure he could be leading by 3 or 4, I'm sure he doesn't hate his position right now.
Q.  It really kind of turns it into a lot more of a free for all than what it was yesterday.
JOE OGILVIE:  Yeah, if you look at the leaderboard, the two guys leading now, it's kind of -- Gavin hits it extremely short and Brett hits it pretty darn long, so that will be interesting if they play together tomorrow.  Gavin will hit 50 to 60 yards shorter than Brett will, so it'll be interesting for people to watch.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT