THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 13, 2005
Joe Ogilvie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOHN BUSH:  Joe, thanks for coming by.  14-under par and in a playoff, obviously not the way you wanted it to end, but it was still a great day for you as a whole.
JOE OGILVIE:  Yeah, it was a good day.  Obviously, four birdies, no bogeys, which is exactly the same thing I did in New Orleans and I lost by one there, too.

I'm going to need five or six birdies next time hopefully.
JOHN BUSH:  Just comment on the playoff.
JOE OGILVIE:  Well, I hit it to the one place on 18 that you absolutely cannot hit it.  That left bunker on 18, especially when you hit it as far up into it as I did, you just have no shot.  But, you know, I hit kind of a poor -- I didn't have a great lie in there, and didn't have a great stance and then hit kind of a poor bunker shot there.  I haven't missed a green with a wedge in a long time and just pull-hooked it which I've had trouble with.

The bad shots that I hit yesterday were all sort of start at the pin and go left, which obviously there was a swing flaw in there somewhere, but I'm sure my teaching was watching and hopefully I'll figure that out before Bay Hill.
JOHN BUSH:  Let's go over your birdies.
JOE OGILVIE:  6, I 2-putted from about 20 feet.

Next hole I made it from 16 feet for birdie.

No. 12, I made it from four feet.

17, I left it short or eagle.  I thought I made that one.  That one I didn't think could stop short.
Q.  What were you thinking as you watched that ball on 17 roll?
JOE OGILVIE:  I really, I don't know if my eyes were playing tricks on me.  First I thought it was going to go two or three feet by the hole, but when it stopped short, I was like, there's no way it could stop short.  Obviously it did.

Then on 18, same type of thing, I left it about an inch short.  I just didn't have a very good read on the final hole of regulation.  It's kind of a weird-looking putt to me and it's kind of in the shadows and whenever you're in the shadow it's more difficult to read.
Q.  What were you trying to hit off the tee on 18 on the playoff hole?
JOE OGILVIE:  I was trying to hit kind of a hard holder.  Yes, I was trying to hit a hard hole and just pulled it a little bit, hit kind of a heel-thin shot.  I didn't think it was going to reach the bunker.  I hit it really poorly and I was thinking in retrospect, I should have just hit it as hard as I could and taken the bunkers out of play.
Q.  And you had a real awkward stance in the bunker, did you have any opportunity to go for the green out of there?
JOE OGILVIE:  No.  I mean, if I would have hit the best shot I could have hit in my life I would have hit it 125 yards, and I probably hit it 90 maybe.
Q.  Just coming close, getting so close a couple of times, is it a good thing, a frustrating thing?
JOE OGILVIE:  Yeah, it's a good thing.  You know, obviously I'm having a good year this year and I've put myself in the position already, I think this is my -- Bob Hope, I had a good chance to win Bob Hope.  I had a decent chance to win Tucson, really.  Doral last week I played well the first three days; and I had a good chance to beat humans, but the other two guys that were playing, I don't know if they fall in that category.

You know, I had I've had a good chance to win three -- definitely three times, so the more you get in the position, the more the law of averages will eventually kick in hopefully.
JOHN BUSH:  Duke winning, did that take a little of the sting off?
JOE OGILVIE:  Well, if they win the National Championship, maybe, but it's only SEC.  We're a little arrogant at Duke.  We should win the SEC.
JOHN BUSH:  Joe, thanks a lot.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT