FORD CHAMPIONSHIP AT DORAL
March 5, 2005
Joe Ogilvie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Can you summarize your round for us today?
JOE OGILVIE:  Played solid golf.  I really could have birdied just about every hole on the back side.  I birdied four out of my first five.  And then I hit it to probably two feet on No. 15 and I missed that and missed it from inside of ten feet, both on 17 and 18.

But very solid round.  Hopefully Phil is not going to run away and hide, which it looks like he probably will do.  But it was certainly a good round and hopefully I can do maybe one or two up tomorrow.
Q.  You played well at the Hope and you're back up here on the leaderboard; how do you feel about your game right now?
JOE OGILVIE:  I feel like it's turning in the right direction.  Certainly I feel more consistent, I feel more comfortable playing well and playing -- this field is tremendous.  I feel like when I see my name on the leaderboard, before I would feel like, "Well, maybe I shouldn't be there, what am I doing there?"  But now I feel like, "Okay, this is probably where I should be."

Hopefully I can continue to hit good golf shots, hole a few putts and see what happens.
Q.  What were the conditions out there today?
JOE OGILVIE:  They were very, very easy, extremely easy.  You know, when you get this type of wind, downwind on 18 and 17, it takes the teeth out of the Monster.  The wind is playing pretty much left-to-right and down every day.  It's the easiest wind by far.  They have overseeded the greens and the greens are extremely soft, so we can throw darts.  I hit it in the rough on 18 straight downwind.  The ball rolled a foot and that's not normal around here.  So I think that they will either have to cut the water off or you'll see a lot more low scores tomorrow.
Q.  Coming from the West Coast to the east, it's a lot different than the West Coast; how do you make the adjustment?
JOE OGILVIE:  It's fairly easy.  I've never had a problem making the adjustment I've had more of a problem playing on the West Coast -- I'm from this area and I'm used Bermuda.  I'm from the east, so this isn't that hard for me.  I've always thought it's harder to go from the east to the west than the west to the east.
Q.  You're one of the smartest guys on TOUR, so I'll ask you this.  You probably heard the comments earlier this week about Tiger and Phil, suggesting to cut the schedule to maybe 35 events to strengthen the fields.  Curious what your opinion is on that.
JOE OGILVIE:  Well, there's some validity in that.  I did not read the article, but someone said they wanted to end the season at Labor Day which is probably not a terrible idea.

Let me just say this.  The stars of today always give the PGA TOUR grief about scheduling all of the events and all the of that other kind of stuff.  What I don't think they take into account is that we do not control our playoffs.  By playoffs, I mean major championships.  If we were able to negotiate a major championship deal, deals that benefitted our schedule, our television contract, I think a lot of the problems that the major stars have would go away.  And I think that's something that we're going to have to look at as players.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT