BOB HOPE CHRYSLER CLASSIC
January 28, 2005
Joe Ogilvie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOE CHEMYCZ:  Joe Ogilvie is with us on the telephone.  6-under 66 at Tamarisk.  Congratulations on another great round, continuing the hot streak for 54 holes.  Talk about another good round for you today.
 JOE OGILVIE:  It was kind of weird.  I didn't play the back side at Tamarisk, which I almost never do, so I wasn't sure what to expect.  I ended up shooting 31, but I played -- I got lucky basically.  I could have easily bogeyed three out of my first five holes, but I made a couple good par putts, good birdie putts on the par 5, No. 12, I think, and then I birdied -- I made about a 15, 18-footer on 15, another probably 25-footer on 16, 18-footer on 17, and a 12-footer on 18.  So I really played well the back side.  I easily could have shot 37 instead of 31.

On the back side I started hitting the ball a little bit better.  I had a couple bad breaks but played solid enough to shoot 1-under par.  I bogeyed a par 5 with the 5-wood.  I think I had three eagles with a 5-wood.  I had a bad lie and I chipped it over and kind of three-putted from there.  That was the only main hiccup.  But the way I played, 66 was a gift.
Q.  What were you doing at the beginning of the problem today?  Obviously you putted well, but was there something specific that wasn't working today?
JOE OGILVIE:  I'll tell you what, the back side at Tamarisk, they've got white soldiers on both sides of the fairway.  By white soldiers, I mean out-of-bounds stakes.  Every time I looked up, I saw out-of-bounds stakes, so it wasn't the greatest mental picture I've ever had, but I got away with it.  Not playing a practice round, I wasn't sure how much room there was out there, and there's certainly more room than I gave it credit for.  I think I was a little defensive with the driver today, and I haven't been defensive the whole week.  I'll work on that a little bit later on today.
Q.  A bit of a struggle on the front today, but 6-under for the round and 23-under for the championship, and the putter was working very well for you again today.
JOE OGILVIE:  Yeah, it was.  My caddie, Micah, we were reading the greens very, very well.  I think I only had one or two putts that we weren't sure about.  If we can keep reading them together pretty well, I think I'll continue the putting, but he's reading them very, very well, which is great.  When you have a caddie that can give you a good read, that's a great thing.  That makes everything easier.
Q.  Are you satisfied with your position at 23-under at this point?
JOE OGILVIE:  (Laughter).  I think if I said no -- yeah, I am.  Obviously, golf you can always say something different, but yeah, I could have probably shot a couple more under on my back side, which was the front side of Tamarisk, but I certainly didn't deserve a 31 on my front side.  I'm very pleased.
Q.  I don't know if you know this, but you just tied the 54-hole scoring record for this tournament by playing the last eight holes in even par.  Are you at all disappointed that you weren't able to take it a little bit deeper?
JOE OGILVIE:  Well, certainly bogeying the par 5 that I did reach in two, yeah, I feel like I gave two shots there.  But I am pleased.  Any time I can shoot under 67 out here, I'm happy.  If I shoot five 67s, I'll be in good shape.  I'm happy where I am.  We'll see what happens.
Q.  Could you give us your caddie's name?
JOE OGILVIE:  Micah Fugitt.
Q.  Joe, yesterday you mentioned that you were technically in the lead.  Do you feel that you technically played well today, or is that just another technicality?
JOE OGILVIE:  I think I played well the last probably 12 holes, or certainly better than the first six.  The first six I wasn't playing well at all, but I'm playing well.  I'm hitting the irons, getting the ball in the fairway.  From that standpoint I'm very happy.  Once I get off the tee, I feel like I'm playing as well as anybody can be.  I just have to get off the tee a little bit better, I think.
Q.  If I was going to make an investment and you were a stock, how would you rate yourself as a stock after the first three days?
JOE OGILVIE:  Probably overrated (laughter).  I'd probably be a buyer if I was at even par, but not at 23-under.  There's not a whole lot to go off if you're 23-under par.  I'd try to buy low and go high, not buy high and have it go low.
Q.  It kind of looks like about half of the guys at the top of the leaderboard are in your rotation, meaning that they're going to LaQuinta tomorrow.  And you talked yesterday about LaQuinta maybe being the toughest of the courses.  Could you talk about your mind set going over there tomorrow in terms of -- you talk about 66s and 65s, but with the lead and going to a tough course, what's the thought?
JOE OGILVIE:  Well, first and foremost, I think LaQuinta, it's the most difficult golf course on the rotation, but I also think that I've played LaQuinta the most.  I have a lot of friends there.  In the last year I probably played it eight, ten times, so I know LaQuinta.  I've played pretty well over there.  I manage to get off the tees.  I think I can score pretty well at LaQuinta.  That's certainly part of -- I think it's the hardest course to go low on.  If I play solid, I think I can shoot 68 there.  The greens are just so perfect, the fairways are great.  It's just a wonderful golf course.  So I think that -- I don't really think -- I'm not going to change my mind set.  I'm certainly more comfortable at LaQuinta than I was at Tamarisk.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Joe, the birdie on 12, tell us about that real quick.
JOE OGILVIE:  Is that the par 5?
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Yes.
JOE OGILVIE:  I had a good drive, a good 3-wood right in the middle of the green, two-putted from about 20 feet.

Then the birdie at 1, driver, 5-iron in the bunker, hit that to about six feet, made the putt.
Q.  And the birdie at 4 from how far?
JOE OGILVIE:  Probably 18 feet.

Then 9, hit driver and 8-iron, probably the two best shots I've hit all day, to maybe three feet, and I made that.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Joe, thanks.  See you tomorrow.
JOE OGILVIE:  I hope to see you all tomorrow.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT