SHELL  HOUSTON OPEN
April 25, 2004
John Huston
Joe Ogilvie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
CHRIS REIMER:  We have Joe Ogilvie and John Huston here.  Guys, if you want to start one by one, talk about the process of getting yourself in contention today and what it was like to wait and start and wait and start.

JOHN HUSTON:  Well, I think both of us played pretty well.  I think the course played a little bit easier than it did the first two days.

It's hard to say when actually the third round is actually over, where everybody will stand.  But obviously probably both of us are pleased with our position, and hopefully tomorrow will be a nice day.  You know, we really didn't start and stop, just played probably like 11 holes today.  You know, nobody likes sitting around, but at least we got in a few more holes than I think we expected to.
JOE OGILVIE:  I think I agree.  John and I birdied three or four of the same holes today.  We've got about 21-odd holes tomorrow, and we'll see what happens.  Looks like we're going to have a pretty good day tomorrow.  If the wind blows, the course is going to obviously be soaked tomorrow.

It's pretty similar conditions as today really.  Today played pretty easy, no wind whatsoever, greens were smooth, fairways didn't roll, so the rough doesn't come into play as much.
Q.  Does playing Monday affect travel plans at all?

JOHN HUSTON:  It'll affect pretty much everybody's travel plans, unless you were planning on not going to New Orleans until tomorrow anyway.  But for myself, I'm going home, so definitely it changes your plan.
JOE OGILVIE:  I was going to Austin and then going to New Orleans, but I don't know if I'll go to Austin or not tomorrow.
Q.  Did you think at all about asking them if you could finish up a little bit today, or was it just totally unplayable out there?

JOHN HUSTON:  I think when they called it today, it was lightning in the area, so we didn't really have the option of going on any at all.  I think when that's the case, you have to stop right there.
Q.  They haven't told us.
JOE OGILVIE:  We would much rather finish obviously today, at least the third round.  You know, you obviously want to re-pair and everything else.  As long as I get to play with John, that's nice.
Q.  How does all the stopping and starting and stopping and starting affect your games?

JOHN HUSTON:  I haven't really had to go through -- well, I did, I guess, Friday, but I don't think it's a problem for anybody.  You know, maybe if you're battling a bad back it can be a problem, but I think that if you played golf on any Tour long enough, you're used to starting and stopping.
JOE OGILVIE:  I watched my first NASCAR event today, so that was kind of an added bonus.  I saw the whole race except for the last 15 laps.  I've spent, I think, 13 hours in the locker room the last two days, so that's been kind of cozy.  Hopefully we'll set up some beds there next year if we get the same deal and take a nap.
CHRIS REIMER:  Thanks, guys.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT