HP BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 28, 2011
Joe Ogilvie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. The wind conditions today? 
 JOE OGILVIE: Well, yeah, it's tough, it's just a hard golf course. The wind is blowin' 25 to 30 and you've got stuff all over the place. I mean, you've got trees and rough and greens that are built for not a lot of wind and undulations and it's like the movie, "Planes, Trains, and Automobiles!"
You've just got a lot going on here. And it's an exceedingly difficult golf course, as -- we're pretty good players but it's making us look like amateurs. We're still golfing pretty well, it's just a tough golf course. 

 Q. Yeah, and do you consider yourself a good wind player? 
 JOE OGILVIE: Yeah, yeah, but you have to -- you really have to commit and you have to trust your lines and there is so much trust when you play in 30 mile-an-hour winds. You're going to hit it in the rough every now and then, and now you're dealing with, okay, is the ball going to fly and what the ball is going to do -- there are just a lot of variables. 
 I'm pretty good when I've got one to two variables, when I have four, five or six variables, it's pretty hard to get a handle on what's going on. 
 It's just a tough golf course. 

 Q. Talk about 15. There's been one birdie there all day and Nick had a triple. 
 JOE OGILVIE: The pin -- it was terrible pin placement there, for the wind. The wind is howling left to right and into you and they only move the tee box up maybe 15 yards, so you're swingin' 3-iron, maybe 4-iron into a left to right wind that's blowin' 30. 

 Q. That's at the approach on 15? 
 JOE OGILVIE: Yeah, and it's over a ridge, it's just a tough hole. I mean, I understand where there is only one birdie there today. It's just a --

 Q. Nick, tough time today? 
 JOE OGILVIE: Yeah, he hit it way right which you're going to do every now and, again, kinda like I did on 18, when you got that -- when you've got a 30 mile-an-hour, left to right wind, you're going to have mishits, and you've got to manage them. It's just tough, because it's hole after hole after hole after hole, especially coming down the stretch. 

 Q. Yeah, the last four, pretty much? 
 JOE OGILVIE: Yeah. 

 Q. Good luck tomorrow. 
 JOE OGILVIE: Thanks! I'm going to need 
it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT