SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 2, 2010
Joe Ogilvie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOHN BUSH: Okay. We'd like to welcome Joe Ogilvie into the interview room here at the Shell Houston Open. After a 5-under par 67, Joe, tremendous play out there today just get some comments on your round.  
 JOE OGILVIE: Yeah, I -- I'm looking at my stats here. Hit 75 percent of my fairways last two rounds, and I hit somewhere around 70 percent of my greens. Normally I'm sub-60 on both accounts. I put a lot of pressure on my putting.   
 It felt good out there today. I felt like I wasn't trying to protect anything. I felt like I was able to hit a shot and not really protect it going left or right, and I felt pretty good.  
 JOHN BUSH: Got to feel like you picked up a couple on the field there at the last.  
 JOE OGILVIE: It was nice to birdie 18. I birdied 9 yesterday, which was a difficult hole, and birdied 18 today, which is the Kodak hole, which is always kind of nice to get an extra bonus there.  
 JOHN BUSH: And talk a little bit about, you mentioned outside, you would have Augusta maybe on your mind next week if you win, but your family may be thinking about something else.  
 JOE OGILVIE: Yeah. Augusta, Georgia the beaches aren't as good Kapalua. My daughters would certainly me go to Kapalua than they wold the Masters. I would prefer to go at the Masters, but it would be fun to have a family vacation next year.  
  
  Q. Do you already have something planned then? Do you already have Hawaii planned?  
 JOE OGILVIE: No. No. I'd go there, but they would go to Kapalua.  
  
  Q. I just wondering if you already had your --  
JOE OGILVIE: They do. They do. They have it planned. I'm just not part of it yet (laughter).  
  
  Q. Just get that clear.  
 JOE OGILVIE: That's right.  
  
  Q. Joe, how big an advantage is it to play in the morning here as opposed to the afternoon?  
 JOE OGILVIE: I think it is a lot. I'm not sure if they slowed the greens down a little bit today, but they felt a little bit slower because they're expecting the 25-mile-an-hour winds this afternoon. I think that we probably had about six holes where we had moderate winds, which is nice to play in.   
 The afternoon guys are going the play in, you know, 18 holes pretty hard winds. Greens start to really dry out. And as they dry out, the winds will affect the putts more, too.   
 So, you know, it's an advantage. It's an advantage to not only play in the morning but to be first off.  
  
  Q. At this point, how much does wanting to win, period, is that what you're thinking or is it overriding to think about Augusta?  
 JOE OGILVIE: No. It's certainly nice to be in a situation where you go on the weekend and you're playing well. But I don't think that it really comes up probably until Sunday. I need Duke to win first tomorrow and then me win.  
  
  Q. You say shouldn't be there.  
 JOE OGILVIE: But no, I think that it's nice to be thinking about, you know, being in the lead as opposed to thinking about just making the cut. That's where I am, I guess.  
  
  Q. Joe, you mentioned that sometimes you put pressure on your putting, everything. Are you a guy that pretty up on your stats? Can you -- do you know where you are, greens regulation, all that kind of stat stuff?  
 JOE OGILVIE: I know I'm the 175th best driver of the golf ball on Tour out of about 195, give or take, which isn't so great.   
 But I put a new driver in play this week, the SuperQuad, Super -- it's TaylorMade's new driver.  
  
  Q. Super Tri.  
 JOE OGILVIE: I endorse Taylor. I should know that. I put it in today, and it -- I went from a 9.5 to an 8.5 loft. It really brought down -- into the wind, I've been having trouble kind of spraying it left and right. And it really I brought down my ball flight.   
 I've been able to hit some shots I haven't been able to hit in a while. So it feels good, especially I really -- to put a new driver in play when you have tough winds is difficult, and it's really performed well.   
 JOHN BUSH: Did you put some new clubs in play last week as well?  
 JOE OGILVIE: I bumped all my clubs up a degree. So they're a degree up right now. That's helped a lot. And then I put a putter, I put -- you know, I'm using one of those fat grips -- what are they called? -- the Super Strokes. So I put that on in the Odyssey II ball putter.  
  
  Q. You need to work on product placement.  
 JOE OGILVIE: Yeah. I putted with a TaylorMade putter yesterday, and I switched to a 2-ball today. I putted a little bit better today. Certainly inside of 2 feet I putted really well.  
  
  Q. Is that normal for you to make that many adjustments?  
 JOE OGILVIE: I've been having trouble this year with certain things, swing being one of them, but -- so I've switched more this year than I have in the past. Normally I get to the Bob Hope or the AT&T and I'm done. I don't switch putters, not wedges.   
  
The only thing I do is I replace wedges every three, four weeks, but I've switched a lot of woods and irons and putters this year, which is rare for me.  
  
  Q. Is that just -- knowing what your stats are, can that help you, knowing that you're 50 in --  
JOE OGILVIE: Yeah, it keeps you honest. I don't think I can look someone in the eye and say yeah, I'm a great driver of the golf ball or a great ball striker when I'm sitting at 175 on that and I think I'm 160th in greens.   
 It kind of -- you know, I guess you have to kind of "come to Jesus' with yourself. You got to change something here, because that's not going to work. So I think that's all it does.  
  
  Q. Isn't there a scary line that you cross though like when you play with one putter yesterday and another one today?  
 JOE OGILVIE: Right. Well, I'm going to keep this putter for the next couple days. I did the same thing last week at Bay Hill. I played on TaylorMade on Monday -- TaylorMade on Thursday, switched to the Odyssey on Friday, Saturday, Sunday, and, you know, there again I just don't like switching a whole lot. This will probably be my last switch.  
 JOHN BUSH: Joe, no bogies on the card. Just take us through, starting with the birdie on No. 3.  
 JOE OGILVIE: So yeah, I made probably about an 18-footer on 3. Crosswind on 3. First three or four holes are pretty tough with the crosswinds.   
 Then 7, I hit a great 7-iron in there -- sorry, 8-iron right over the pin to 12, 15 feet, made that.   
 8, I hit a 3-wood, probably my best shot of the day, to about 12 feet for eagle and just kind of put it on the lip there.  
 And then 13, hit it right next to the green and 2-putted up to about 2 feet, 3 feet.   
 Then 14 and 17, I made good 12-footers for par, which really kept my round going. And then 18 I made about a 10-footer for birdie.   
 Pretty solid round. Really the 11th, 14th and 17th I had ten footers for par, made them all. That was the only time I really had a chance for bogey.  
 JOHN BUSH: Joe, that's for coming by. Keep it going this weekend.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT