TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 3, 2009
Brent Nickerson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q. Having to switch over to strong safety talk about how comfortable you were at that position?
 BRENT NICKERSON: I got into Coach Mainord about three weeks ago to get more information about what the safety really does. You know playing corner and not, being here for about five years I know what they were supposed to do but it was getting more detailed about it. Been practicing for about three-and-a-half weeks at the safety spot. And I got a lot comfortable with it. 
 They trusted me to go into the game. And I did a pretty good job with it, making plays and reading my keys and my teammates and stuff. Going back and watching the film tomorrow and seeing where I messed up and what I can improve on.

 Q. Talk a little bit seems like you all were getting your hands on the ball a lot more this game, a lot more deflections; that is improvement over the weeks or what was it?
 BRENT NICKERSON: I think it was improvement over the weeks. In practice we emphasize key situations, third downs, getting off the field, fourth downs, getting off the field, secondary, making plays, getting PVUs. 
 Starting on Tuesday practice we kept how many turnovers we got as far as fumbled and interceptions, so I think emphasizing that in practice helped us in the game.

 Q. What kind of adjustments did you guys have to make back there after Cody went out then how do you think you did considering he wasn't out there?
 BRENT NICKERSON: I think we did pretty good. We got there in the second position but they practice at the spot in practice with the ones having a little rotation going. 
 So I think it was just a different guy being able to get out and make plays. Cody's a great player. Of course, he the starting safety, but I think we got guys that came up and did a really great job.

 Q. Were there some adjustments?
 BRENT NICKERSON: Not really. We practice the same coverages and play the same keys and scheme of the defense so really wasn't adjusting just having another guy come in at the position.

 Q. What do you think that says about this defense? Because you could argue that at times there's 2, 3, maybe 4 of you out there not playing positions you started in camp; what does that say about you all?
 BRENT NICKERSON: The type of defense that we have we have a lot of smart guys on our team, guys that are willing to do anything to win the game, guys that are warriors that when their number's dialed can step in and make a play happen. 
 Another thing that we emphasized was in key situations as far as the defense coach calling the guy out in practice and saying, Cody Davis, I need a play right now. Brett, I need a play right now. So I think with him doing that it helped us a lot as a defense.

 Q. It look like you had a chance to pick off a pass or two; were you frustrated because yourself that you didn't do it more?
 BRENT NICKERSON: I was frustrated more I got my hand on a couple of balls that I felt like if I concentrated a little bit more I could have brought in. So it was just going out at practice, make plays, securing interceptions. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT