HONG KONG OPEN
December 5, 2013
David Higgins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  DAVID HIGGINS:   Yeah, delighted.   Tough track.   You go slightly off, the difference between bogey and birdie.   So delighted with that.  
   
 Q.   I saw you ahead of the championship and you said do you have an affection for the track.   
DAVID HIGGINS:   Yeah, it's my type of course.   You have to be very precise with your iron shots, good putter, good short game and keep it on the fairway.   So it suits me perfect.  
   
 Q.   Old‑fashioned, isn't it.   We don't see that many tracks like this on the Tour.   
DAVID HIGGINS:   It's the type of course I grew up playing, where it's almost linksy.   You have to be careful it runs out and runs off the edges of greens.   It's a good course for me.  
   
 Q.   And I suppose it's all the more this year, I don't know how familiar you are from other greens, but the greens seem to be that much firmer this time around.   
DAVID HIGGINS:   Yeah, that's what I mean when I say they are kind of linksy.   Even little pitch shots, you have to allow them to run out.   It's as close to an inland links as you will get.   But there's some‑‑ you have to have a good imagination around the greens playing off the hills, so it's great.  
   
 Q.   So it's one of those where you stand on the tee and just say, David, this is a good hole for me.   
DAVID HIGGINS:   I wouldn't go that far.   It's a good course for me because it rewards a guy that hits the fairway.   That's the strong part of my game.   It means I'm coming into these tough pins with 7s and 8s, and I'm good at that, so it's a good course.  
   
 Q.   Last time you seemed to have such an affection for a course was Turin, your best ever finish.   
DAVID HIGGINS:   Yeah, this is a great start.   I still have a long way to go, so we won't get ahead of ourselves but I'm delighted with today.  
   
 Q.   Presumably you're fired up with a new season in mind, and it's hard to think that it's '13 but it's the '14 calendar.   
DAVID HIGGINS:   Yeah, the end of the year was disappointing for me.   I didn't keep my full playing rights but I still have some, so I'm going to have chances and every time I get a chance, I've got to make the most of it, so this is a good start.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT