CAPITAL ONE ORANGE BOWL: FLORIDA STATE VS MICHIGAN
December 28, 2016
Ben Gedeon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What is the best Christmas present that you got, either this year or ever?
BEN GEDEON: When I was little I got this sweet bike, probably in middle school.  It was the best Christmas present I've ever got because I rode that thing everywhere.  It was awesome.
Q. Mountain bike or 10-speed?
BEN GEDEON: Hybrid.  Mountain bike and 10-speed.
Q. Who does the best Jim Harbaugh impression on the team?
BEN GEDEON: Henry Poggi.
Q. Really?
BEN GEDEON: He does great impressions of multiple coaches.  Ryan Glasgow does the best Coach Brown.
Q. Can you talk about Dalvin Cook?  Obviously being a linebacker you're going to be one of the guys meeting him a lot in the game.  What impresses you about him?
BEN GEDEON: He's got all the attributes, the vision, the quickness, the cuts he makes are elite, and he's impressive to watch on film, so we're going to have to tackle really well.
Q. Do you feel like he's sort of the pulse of this team, or as far as he goes, they go?
BEN GEDEON: Yeah, for sure.
Q. Is it going to be a task just to stop him?
BEN GEDEON: Yeah, for sure.  It's going to take being really sound in our run fits, detail wise being exactly where we need to be, and they do a good job with their run plays and how they block their run plays, so it's going to take a whole defensive effort.
Q. Y'all have faced a number of established running backs this year, Barkley at Penn State, a couple guys at Ohio State.  Where does Dalvin stack up?
BEN GEDEON: I mean, one of the best for sure.  I mean, definitely up there.  Barkley is an unbelievable player.  But yeah, we've played great running backs and we've been sound in our run fits for the most part all year.  It's nothing new to us to be stout in our run fits.
Q. Who's playing the role of Cook on scout team?
BEN GEDEON: Drake Johnson has been doing a lot of it for us, and Joe Hewlett also plays.  Two pretty fast guys, yeah.
Q. You talked about those running backs you guys have faced.  Is it fun going against those guys?  Is it fun embracing the challenge?
BEN GEDEON: Yeah, for sure.  We love facing challenges.  This defense, we love hearing all about the offensive players we're going to play and all the hype that they have, and then just kind of facing the challenge and embracing it is fun for us.
Q. With Jabrill, how would you describe everything that he does for you guys defensively?
BEN GEDEON: Just so valuable to us.  To see a guy that's undersized playing linebacker, going out and covering wide receivers, you don't see that around the country at all, and he does that for us.  So he gives us so much versatility.
Q. What's something a lot of people don't know about him?  Obviously you're with him every day.
BEN GEDEON: Just the way he practices.  You take a guy who was a Heisman candidate, all this hype, that he wouldn't go out and practice the way he does, but every single day he practices like he's a walk-on freshman, so it's pretty impressive.
Q. How difficult is it for those offensive scouts to simulate these great players that you guys face each week?
BEN GEDEON: Yeah, it's definitely.  With a guy like Drake Johnson that's played, I mean, he played in big games.  He's played for a few years now, so we get a little bit of the speed from him, which helps, but they do such a good job.  They've got an offensive line that's taking all the reps, and they do a good job of trying to emulate what we're going to get on Friday night.
Q. Jabrill's practice habits, is that just in effort, is that in preparation?  What about it is different from other people?
BEN GEDEON: Yeah, I think it is effort.  Just everything he does looks so effortless, though, so you can't really tell because he's just such a smooth athlete.  But the way he goes about his business and the enthusiasm he has towards it is special.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT