FEVER-TREE CHAMPIONSHIP
June 24, 2018
John Peers
Henri Kontinen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








KONTINEN-PEERS/Murray-Soares
6-4, 6-3
Q. Congratulations.  What does a title like this mean to you so close to Wimbledon?
JOHN PEERS: It means a lot.  Henri and I both really enjoy getting back on the grass.  I know we haven't quite done as well this year, but I know we are building, back end of the clay court season, so to be able to come onto the grass and play really good four matches and come out with that is really promising and gives us a lot of confidence going into Wimbledon.
Q. You two have got a really good record when you get to finals.  What happens when you get to a final?  I think it's now 12-1.
JOHN PEERS: Well, sure.  I think we just build our confidence as matches go on, and the deeper we get in the tournaments, we're both lucky enough I feel as though we both play better and better, and I think that's the biggest thing we have both been able to do.
Q. You were a finalist here.  You haven't won here.
JOHN PEERS: Finalist once with Jamie few years ago.
Q. Now you've beaten him in the final.  What does that mean?
JOHN PEERS: It's great.  We've played each other quite a few times.  To be able to get a title at Queen's, it's always one of my favorite tournaments of the year.  So to be able to do it is always a lot more fun.
Q. And playing on the grass?
JOHN PEERS: Oh, it's great fun.  Did a lot as a child growing up, and just wish the grass court season was a bit longer, but to be able to play well and get a title on grass is always fantastic.
Q. What will you do now before going into Wimbledon?
JOHN PEERS: Just get ready and prep for Wimbledon.  Take a couple days off and keep things rolling and hopefully not try to change too much because we are playing some good tennis.
Q. How confident do you feel going into Wimbledon?
JOHN PEERS: Definitely confident, but at the end of the day, it's a new tournament and a fresh start, so at the end of the day, the challenge for us is just continue the form we've done and put that out there and let the results take care of itself.
Q. Henri, congratulations.  What is it when you and John get to finals that things really happen?  I think it's now 12-1 on your win/loss record.
HENRI KONTINEN: I don't know.  Cliché?  It's just another match.  Maybe the opponents don't feel the same way.  Take too much pressure?  I don't know.  Impossible to say.
I mean, of course we're going to at some point probably lose a few, but we feel confident after winning some matches, and, yeah, just happened to play good.
Q. Tell me about winning on grass so close to Wimbledon.
HENRI KONTINEN: Yeah, obviously couldn't ask for a better preparation towards Wimby, but it's a totally separate tournament.  I have played some bad tennis couple years during this week and still played great in Wimby.
I don't think it's automatically know that we will play well there, but obviously a perfect start to the grass season.
Q. And lastly, now that the big one is just around the corner, how confident do you feel going into Wimbledon.
HENRI KONTINEN: I'd say pretty much the same as last year or the year before.  We enjoy playing on grass, and I think it suits our game very well.
A lot of tough teams out there, but I like especially the best-of-five format gives a little more margin than doubles usually does.  Yeah, hopefully we can do well and be there in the end.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT