BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 17, 2015
Jamie Murray
John Peers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BOPANNA-MERGEA/Murray-Peers   
6-3, 7-6   
An interview with:   
JAMIE MURRAY   
JOHN PEERS   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Tough one today, but I guess the beauty of this competition is you know you've got another chance.  
JAMIE MURRAY: Yeah, still got another match on Thursday.  Yeah, we can obviously still go through if we win, I guess.   
So, yeah, I guess get ready for that and do our best.   
 Q.  4-All the second set, deciding point, which part of your racquet did that ball hit?  
JAMIE MURRAY: I don't know.  Thankfully it hit something.  I might not be sitting here talking to you guys if it hadn't.  It was a lucky shot, wasn't it?  I guess you need those sometimes.   
 Q.  Did you see Andy tweeted saying he was impressed by your reflexes by that one?  
JAMIE MURRAY: No, I was still on the court at that time, so I wasn't checking my phone.   
 Q.  John, have you had any feedback from back home in Australia as a result of your two matches here?  
JOHN PEERS: A little bit, but not too much.  I mean, seem to fly under the radar a little bit which is sometimes nice and sometimes not so nice.   
A little bit, but not too much.   
 Q.  Jamie, your reaction to the Aljaz Bedene decision, which they postponed till March.  
JAMIE MURRAY: Yeah, I just got told now.  I obviously don't really know what to think about that.  Obviously had a lot of time since the previous meeting.  I guess for him it's pretty frustrating, a lot of time wasted, I guess, for a lot of people that put a lot of time into it.   
But hopefully in March he gets the green light.   
 Q.  The squad had been announced today, the guys that got you there to the Final.  Are you confident that the guys that are there are strong enough to win the trophy next week?  
JAMIE MURRAY: Definitely.  We've won three matches so far with that squad this year.  Why not one more match?  I think everyone's really excited to play.  I think everyone's fired up to do their best to try to lift the trophy, yeah.   
 Q.  Can you talk about the whole experience of being here, something new for you.  It's been a big year.  
JOHN PEERS: Yeah, no, it's been a great year.  I mean, it's been great to cap off the year with a tournament like this.  Everything is taken care of for us.  I mean, they put on a great show.  I think it's a great event and great atmosphere out there.   
It makes you actually want to play tennis, keep pushing forward.  Gives you a tournament to aim for to try and actually do better through the year if you're struggling at all.   
It's great to actually play with these guys and see the best guys playing in one of the best arenas, one of the best courts in the world.  It's actually a fantastic experience.   
 Q.  Jamie, what was your reaction on behalf of the team on the news that Kyle won that title in Buenos Aires last week?  
JAMIE MURRAY: It was a great achievement, wasn't it?  Great effort for him to go down there and win a challenger on clay.  I don't know when the last British person would have done that.   
Yeah, it's a great effort.  He beat two guys in the semis and final who have been top-50 players.  Saballos won two tour events I think not even that long ago either.  Berlocq has beaten a lot of good players.   
He crushed them.  He's obviously feeling good about his game.  That bodes well for Davis Cup.   
 Q.  John, your Davis Cup situation, have you had any indication from Lleyton Hewitt that you will be brought into the fold next year?  
JOHN PEERS: Yeah, hopefully.  I actually spoke to Lleyton about two weeks ago.  I'll have a chat to him when I get back to Australia again.  Hopefully we can go from there and hopefully I can put myself forward and be part of the team next year.   
 Q.  Mitchell Johnson has announced his retirement from test cricket.  Can you comment on that.  
JOHN PEERS: From my point of view it's sort of sad to see.  He's been unbelievable for Australia and Australian cricket, especially at a time coming through after the McGraths and Warnes.  Came through and was always exciting to watch.   
He was a guy which brought spectators to the ground.  You never knew what he was going to bring.  He could bring something unbelievable.   
So, I mean, it's sort of sad to see.  He's put in a great few years.  Hopefully he keeps going.  He's been great for the sport.   
 Q.  Jamie, do you have any security worries about the Davis Cup Final, especially when you hear about the football match being postponed for that reason?  
JAMIE MURRAY: You know, what happens happens.  Control what we can control.  Hopefully the people that are in charge of security do their job, yeah, and it all goes smoothly.   
 Q.  Jamie, you touched on it slightly, about the time it took with the Aljaz.  The LTA put out a statement that they're disappointed.  It seems strange they've had eight months to ponder this issue, one way or the other, and it seems they're too scared to make a decision before a Davis Cup Final.  
JAMIE MURRAY: Yeah, maybe.  I don't know.  I don't know why it's taken so long for them to make a ruling.  I guess you'll just have to wait till March and see what they say.   
 Q.  Obviously the Bryan brothers, it comes down to that.  Other matches may come into play.  A great match for you to try to get your place in the semifinals.  
JAMIE MURRAY: Of course.  Exciting match to play.  I guess we have to win if we want to try to stay in the competition.   
Yeah, it will be nice to get out there and play.  Full crowd again.  They always bring a lot of energy to the court.  You know, we have to do the same if we want to try to win.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT