BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 15, 2015
Jamie Murray
John Peers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MURRAY-PEERS/Bolelli-Fognini   
7-6, 3-6, 11-9   
An interview with:   
JAMIE MURRAY   
JOHN PEERS   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Obviously your debut here.  Was that everything you hoped it would be, taking your bow?  
JAMIE MURRAY: Yeah, it was cool.  I mean, yeah, it was a great match, really exciting match.  I think both teams played well.  There was a lot of exciting points.   
Yeah, it came down to a couple of points right at the end.  Yeah, really happy to win and really excited to move on in the tournament.   
 Q.  You proved in the past you're capable of beating all the best teams.  Have you thought about the possibility of winning this event and ending the year as world No. 1's?  
JAMIE MURRAY: Not really.  I mean, yeah, just got to play, don't you?  You got to win five matches.  Yeah, that's one down, try to win the next four.  Yeah, a lot of tennis still to be played.   
We'll have to try to maintain that level we played today if we want any chance to win the trophy.   
 Q.  John, have you played in an atmosphere quite like that?  
JOHN PEERS: No, I mean, that was a great atmosphere.  It's a stadium that sort of feels small but you look up, it just actually keeps going up and up because of the way the lights work.  The feel of the arena, it was actually a lot of fun.   
It's always handy having the crowd on your side in a stadium like that.  It makes a little bit of a difference, I felt, at the end.   
 Q.  Andy has been asked quite a lot in the last few weeks how mentally he's going to navigate his way through the next couple of weeks.  It comes as a bit of a package.  Have you thought about that?  How have your sort of butterflies been in the buildup to what is a huge fortnight for you?  
JAMIE MURRAY: Yeah, it's exciting for me.  It's lots to look forward to, obviously starting with today.  I think we were both really looking forward to the match today.  I mean, yeah, it's a huge event for us which we're really excited to be a part of.  We worked hard all year to qualify for this tournament.   
Yeah, we want to make the most of our time here.  When that's done, then I'll think about Davis Cup.   
 Q.  How weird is it knowing this is the last tournament you'll be playing together?  
JAMIE MURRAY: To be honest, I didn't really think about it that much.  From my point of view, yeah, just try to do the best we can, finish on a high, try to make a great year even better.   
JOHN PEERS: As Jamie said, I didn't really think about it at all.  As Jamie said, we have four matches to go, hopefully take care of this and worry about next year when it comes.   
For me, this is my last tournament of the year, and Jamie can focus on Davis Cup once this is done.  I think it's more one step at a time and hopefully end up on a good high note.   
 Q.  John, have you got a partner lined up for next year?  
JOHN PEERS: Yeah, playing with Henri Kontinen.   
 Q.  Slightly more serious note on the wake of what happened in Paris on Friday.  Are you happy with the security arrangements here?  Have you noticed any change in security as far as the players are concerned?  
JAMIE MURRAY: Me, no.  I don't know.  Just took the Tube here, walked in, showed my credential, that's it.  I mean, I don't know if they've changed anything or not.  I haven't been aware of it.   
Yeah, it's not really for us to focus on.   
JOHN PEERS: Yeah, no, same thing as Jamie.  Just slightly more presence from what we normally would see.  We're sort of in the areas where we're used to seeing a lot of security anyway.  It's probably through the public side of things of how long it takes them to get on the grounds.   
 Q.  I'm guessing that's what the black ribbons are about.  
JAMIE MURRAY: A bit of solidarity, yeah, to show we're...   
JOHN PEERS: ...supporting the cause.   
 Q.  Was that organized by Mahut?  
JAMIE MURRAY: I don't know.  The ATP guys gave it to us before we went on court.   
 Q.  John, do you get the sense that it's hard to play in what is effectively an entertainment industry less than 48 hours after such a major event like this that's consumed the entire news agenda?  
JOHN PEERS: Yeah, definitely.  But, I mean, as a lot of us also believe, we have to keep pushing forward, putting on events, making sure things don't stop.   
It's very sad and unfortunate.  We all have to try to bind together and show support.  I think events like this, if they can run smoothly, is great for society and what we're trying to push forward for.   
 Q.  Jamie, you said you traveled by Tube.  Presumably you didn't take up any offer of transport.  How was it?  Were there lots of people recognizing you on the Tube?  
JAMIE MURRAY: It was pretty dead at that time.  I was on the Tube at 8:30 this morning.  It was quiet.   
JOHN PEERS: Maybe wait till tomorrow when he comes in.   
JAMIE MURRAY: Maybe wait till Monday, yeah.   
 Q.  Jamie, I take it you've done no practice on clay?  Obviously Andy has.  
JAMIE MURRAY: Yeah, I practiced last Friday, Monday, and a little bit with Andy on Tuesday and Wednesday for some doubles stuff.  Yeah, I spent a bit of time.  Not as much as he played.  But I think it's easier to adapt playing doubles than it is to singles.   
 Q.  Jamie, can I ask you about Aljaz Bedene.  What do you think of his appeal?  Do you think he should have a chance?  If he were to be successful, would you welcome him into the team?  
JAMIE MURRAY: Yeah, I mean, look, if they hadn't changed the rule last November, he would have been available to play all the matches this year.  Yeah, I mean, he's obviously been living in the UK for five, six years now.   
I hope for his sake that he's eligible to play.  He's obviously done the right process, cleared all the obstacles that needed to be cleared.  Obviously they decided to change the rules a couple months before he's able to participate in Davis Cup.   
Wednesday, if he gets the green light, yeah, for me, if he does get selected, welcome him with open arms.  He's British, he's done what he needs to do.  Yeah, I'm sure he'll be a valued member of the team.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT