WEST VIRGINIA UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 21, 2017
David Sills
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








West Virginia - 38, Baylor - 36
Q. Did anybody relax in the fourth quarter?
DAVID SILLS: I don't know if it was relaxing.  Maybe losing a little bit and maybe taking our foot off the gas a little bit, but that's something we just have to finish out the game.  We've got to go back and look at the film and see what happened on that.  But I think when we were, you know doing our thing and playing our game, I think we looked pretty good.  We just have to continue to finish the game.
Q. It seems like you were able to hit stuff down the seam and in between the corner and the safeties.  Is that something you expected doing?
DAVID SILLS: Yeah, they gave us a lot of coverages on film.  So we weren't actually sure on what we were going to get.  They showed Oklahoma and Oklahoma State, basically two different defenses.  So we really weren't sure kind of went in with a pretty basic game plan.  Knew we could take some shots and stuff and play off of their corners and in their secondary.  So that's what we tried to do.
Q. What were they doing to take away the screen game?  Looked like they were pretty good on the screen game.
DAVID SILLS: They were just putting three bodies over two.  They were playing off coverage, and Will was giving us a chance.  But once the ball gets in our hands, we've got to make a play.  You know, if Will's throwing it out there, he obviously sees a favorable screen look.  So we've got to just get the ball in our hands and make a play with it, and that's what we're supposed to do as receivers.
Q. The play right before the half, you got seven seconds.  You guys had repped that as a five or six-second play.  (Indiscernible) was talking about everything has to be?
DAVID SILLS: Yeah, we knew it would be a quick-hitting play.  It would get us in position to where all of the defense would be.  Also get us in the end zone, I think, with enough time to either run or kick a field goal if we did complete it.  But Will gave me a great ball, put it right in the middle of the coverage, and it worked out.
Q. What about what did it feel like in the locker room after this?  Did it feel like a win?
DAVID SILLS: Yeah, it did.  You know, you can't take any win for granted.  All wins are important, you know, because at the end of the day, it says you've won, and it's always hard to win on the road.  You know, coming in and playing at somebody else's home, they're hyped up.  They're not just going to quit in a moment like that.  But it's hard to play Big 12 football on the road.  So any win is important, so we're happy we got the win, and now we're just moving on to Oklahoma State.
Q. What do you know about Oklahoma State?
DAVID SILLS: I've watched them on TV.  I haven't really studied them much really.  Just been focusing on our opponents week to week, so we'll be ready to get after Oklahoma State and look at their film and figure out how we can beat them.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT