NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: CAPITALS v RED WINGS
June 11, 1998
Steve Yzerman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  You guys have a lot more depth than earlier in your career, but do you still feel a burden of sorts to come through big in these types of games?
 
STEVE YZERMAN:  No, not individually, no more than anyone else.  Always we try to do get our lines turn over, and get -- create chances.  Obviously, when you are behind in a game you have got to gamble a little bit more or press a little bit more, but, no, individually, I really don't feel -- our belief is that we will create scoring chances somehow or somebody will score at some point so.  No, I don't feel any extra. 
 

Q.  At times this team can play just well enough to win.  Do you have that same sort of feeling in your mind that no matter what happens you can come back and win by one whether you play bad or whether you play well?
 
STEVE YZERMAN:  Not necessarily, no.  We feel we got to -- we don't go into games necessarily thinking that you know, that we can cruise and win.  We have to really play well.  I thought we had an excellent first period again tonight.  Slow start in the second.  They jumped all over us and after that I thought we played pretty well.  But, no, I don't -- we believe that -- we are not going to quit in a game, particularly games of this importance.  We will keep trying away.  We were fortunate when Tikkanen missed the open net.  That was kind of the break that we needed to.  But, no, we certainly don't -- we believe we can come back at any time.  We are not going to quit in any game. 
 

Q.  This game come from -- this game just sort of exploded.  What happened?
 
STEVE YZERMAN:  Yeah, well, I guess the Caps got up 3-1 and we were really forced to open up and take chances. Fortunately they didn't get -- they got the one powerplay goal, but they didn't get that many after that.  But, the game for us opened up because we were down, but there really haven't been -- not just the Caps, or ourselves - throughout the Playoffs, there has been very little -- very few games that wide open.  But what caused it, we had to open up to catch up. 
 

Q.  The last year there was the -- there was so much about you playing for your first Cup and everybody else. What is the difference?  The feeling here as you are driving toward a second consecutive Stanley Cup as compared to last year?
 
STEVE YZERMAN:  Well, I don't think -- well, I guess we are just playing for -- just to win.  We have -- we enjoy  the success we had last year.  Our team is really competitive.  We are just out there playing to win.  I don't believe our team is really afraid of the consequences of losing or anything bad happening.  We just have a really competitive team that we -- the Stanley Cup was incredible personally -- for our team an incredible achievement.  And I think guys really want to do it again.  We are just kind of motivated to win again for no other reason. 
 

Q.  Steve, you guys have been down by 2 for so long in that game; then you score.  There is a sense that you can get back in it.  Juneau scores 28 seconds later.  Was there any  -- because it didn't seem like it-any momentarily sense of deflation.  Did you feel the Caps had some sense of deflation that, boy, we let one get away here?
 
STEVE YZERMAN:  No, I really -- no, I wasn't so much concerned with them.  Actually they came out and played pretty well in overtime.  But, they kind of fell into the same mode that we did in the last game with a 2-goal lead you are starting to sit back and not necessarily generate chances.  Despite going down 4-2, I thought we were comfortable in that we were creating a lot of scoring chances and there was still relatively a lot of time left.  The feeling was, I think we are going to at some point get another goal make it 4-3.  I thought they responded well in overtime, but definitely, I thought the third period we got the momentum, but it was very even in overtime. 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT