NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: RED WINGS v FLYERS
June 6, 1997
Steve Yzerman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  You kept such a tight reign on your emotions throughout this whole thing.  Is that a design that you have tried to --
 
STEVE YZERMAN:  I think we are trying to just kind of stay relaxed, I guess, most of all.  But, I don't think -- I think it helps if you are able to not get too carried away when things go wrong and again not, you know, fall apart when things don't go well.  And, we have been able to do that throughout the Playoffs reasonably well. 
 

Q.  That is natural for you?  You don't have to --
 
STEVE YZERMAN:  Well, I don't know that it is natural because I think everyone has a tendency to, you know, when things go well, to get excited.  We have had a lot of experience over the last couple of years in the Playoffs, so I think the experience has helped us kind of stay focused on what we are trying to do. 
 

Q.  What did you think of the fans at the start of last night's game?
 
STEVE YZERMAN:  I didn't really expect it.  I loved it.  I mean, it was a great experience, but I really don't know what to say about it other than that it was a great moment. 
 

Q.  Do you approach tomorrow night like it is a do-or-die clinching Game 7 in that situation?
 
STEVE YZERMAN:  Well, we have tried to approach every game, try to prepare ourselves to get ready to play that every game is crucial, and, we are playing for the Stanley Cup right now.  So, I guess you do.  We are trying to, like I said treat every game like it is important, that we have to play our best hockey and we have been able to come out relatively strong in all the games, so, we approached it the same way. 
 

Q.  How important has lack injuries been for your team?
 
STEVE YZERMAN:  That definitely plays a part in things and we have been fortunate to this point to remain healthy. 
 

Q.  How do you feel yourself, excited?
 
STEVE YZERMAN:  I am definitely excited.  I guess I am a little nervous.  I am anxious to play the flex game.  I think the hard part is the waiting in between the games.  I think you feel most comfortable once you get on the ice to play the games. 
 

Q.  Can you talk about the influence Ted has had this since he has been around here so much?
 
STEVE YZERMAN:  Ted? 
 

Q.  Yeah.
 
STEVE YZERMAN:  He spends a lot of time in the locker  room.  When we are leaving after practice, Ted always comes in and works out.  I think that I know the guys really get a kick sitting and talking to him.  He is in there working out.  He is still in tremendous shape.  He has got such, I guess an interesting image, tough guy from old time hockey and he is a small man and such a nice guy.  It is kind of neat to guys walk away talking about him like that is the killer of the '50s and '60s.  He is just like a really neat old man. 
 

Q.  Has he said anything to you that has been beneficial to you?
 
STEVE YZERMAN:  When you talk to him, he just talks to you like -- he just like a totally normal person.  He supports the team, but he never really offers advice.  He just comes in and chitchats really. 
 

Q.  Can you imagine 30 years from now that people, players might be saying the same thing about you like Steve comes in, talks to us and --
 
STEVE YZERMAN:  Well, 30 years from now I won't be hanging around lock rooms. 
 

Q.  Can you put into words some of your emotions right now realizing as much as you try to stick --
 
STEVE YZERMAN:  First of all, we haven't won, and -- our approach is we haven't won and, you know, you sit here and talk about emotion, this is and that.  We are preparing for a hockey game.  We will prepare for it like we prepared for it in the previous three in the series.  My emotions are the same as it was before all the other games, that I am trying to try and just relax, take it easy on the off day, and prepare for a game.  So, I really don't care to get into all the hoopla and all the extra stuff.  I just want to think about the upcoming game and approach it that we have to win the game. 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT