U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 15, 2018
William Mouw
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So you're 3-down and heading to the back side.  How did you pull it all together?  
WILLIAM MOUW: I was over on the 10th tee after a pretty good drive, or on the 10th fairway I should say, and he stuffed it in there probably 12 feet, and I said, all right, let's get down to business, let's focus here.  I knew I had it in me.  I just said, this is what you practice for, so you don't need to get nervous.  Just hit the shots, hit the greens, put the pressure on him, keep the pressure off him.  That's what we did.  We hit some good putts, hit some good shots.  It was fun, fun battle.   
 Q.  Starting off you birdied the 10th?  
WILLIAM MOUW: I did.  I had 203 in, hit a high 6-iron off the wind, and I hit it to about 15 feet.  Real quick putt down the hill left to right and buried it, so that kind of got me off to a good start there, which was fun.   
 Q.  Other key shots coming in that you thought were telling in the end?  
WILLIAM MOUW: Yeah.  For sure just hitting the shots close around the green, keeping the pressure off me, on him, to force him to make the putt.  Yeah, I made a good putt on 12 for par there, and my speed control was fantastic for my putting on the back nine.   
 Q.  Tell me what it was like growing up on the farm with all the chickens and everything.  How did that get you ready to be an athlete?  
WILLIAM MOUW: Yeah.  So growing up on the farm with my brother and sisters, there's always help, and that teaches you good work ethic, so when I bring that out to the course, I say, I could rather definitely be at the course than working, so you always have a good positive attitude about it, too.  Yeah, it taught me a good work ethic.   
 Q.  Even in the summer you had to take a couple days off at least to water the chickens and get them out of the heat in Southern California.  
WILLIAM MOUW: Yeah, so we had a bad heat wave there, 115-degree weather for like three days straight, and we had to bring the hoses out there, maybe four or five hoses maybe like 200 yards long, each hose.  I was pulling, my brother was spraying, and just make sure to keep the chickens alive.   
 Q.  How many folks do work on the farm, and who do you service with the chickens?  
WILLIAM MOUW: There's five workers, not including my parents and us.  We service -- we have a drive-through store.  We get about 300 customers a day, and my dad started that about 22 years ago, picked it up from his dad.   
 Q.  You like to play a little basketball, too?  
WILLIAM MOUW: I love basketball.  Yeah, that's inspires me to just have fun with golf, too, but also have fun with basketball for sure.   
 Q.  Is it good to have another sport in your life where you take a break from one or the other and keep fresh mentally?  
WILLIAM MOUW: I agree with that totally because in the wintertime there's high school basketball, which I'm going to play, and no tournaments there, but I can still have enough time to practice after school, golf, for three hours, then come back later in the night and practice basketball.  So it just works really good.  Keeps my mind off golf for maybe a month and a half, and then once the month and a half ends, stops, you come back fresh ready for golf.   
 Q.  Do you like the three-point shot the best?  
WILLIAM MOUW: Yeah, love the three-pointer.  That's my thing.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT