SALTIRE ENERGY PAUL LAWRIE MATCH PLAY
July 30, 2015
Thomas Aiken
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THOMAS AIKEN: That's the beauty of match play, a win is a win.  Doesn't matter how many you win by.  I had a good day of golf out there.  Hit the ball very solid and got off to a good start, and I think that's really what kept the momentum going.   
It's not the easiest of golf courses.  It may be short on the card but it's very narrow and very tricky.  It's actually a great course to prove the theory of courses don't need to be extremely long to play challenging.  All in all, very pleased with the start.   
 Q.  Which suggests that you like the challenge that Murcar Links offers up, as well.  
THOMAS AIKEN: Yeah, you've really got to position your ball around the golf course.  It's not just get up there and smash it.  If you are wayward, you're going to get penalised and in match play, getting penalised is losing a hole, which is quite a big thing.   
You want to try to keep the ball in play.  The funny thing is that the guys going first, especially at the start, it's quite interesting, because the first is a drivable par 4 and it's very narrow.  But if you get up there and hit it on the green, it really pressurises your opponent to do the same thing.   
It's quite interesting to see what happens during week, if guys lay up and what guys who follow do, because I think if you can apply some pressure, it makes it a little bit interesting.   
 Q.  And that's part of the beauty, isn't it.  That's part of the strategy that's involved in match play.  
THOMAS AIKEN: When you look at other sports like tennis, it's head-to-head and it's pretty much what we are doing this week.  Some people have said in the past, oh, people can get lucky and win.  I don't know so much.  If you play solid golf the whole day, you'll end up out on top at the end.  Someone is going to have to play better than you to beat and you that's statistically true.   
Yeah, I think there couldn't be a fairer format.  It's you against one opponent playing the same golf course at the same time in the same weather conditions.  So excited about the week.   
I'm glad Paul Lawrie got involved with Saltire Energy to host this event.  I think it was a phenomenal idea, especially in making the format match play, because I think the modern game is getting a little bit monotonous with too many stroke-play events.  When you look in the old days, yeah, there were stroke-play events, but they also had a lot of exhibition games which were all match play with the best players playing each other.   
So I think it will be a great idea to do some more of these.  I think the spectators enjoy it.  You just have to look at one tournament to realise that this format of the game is and can be a huge success, and that's The Ryder Cup.  When you look at what the Ryder Cup brings to golf, it brings excitement.  It brings charisma.  It brings all the things I think the modern game slightly lacks.  What a better way to try to get some of that back by having a few more match-play events.  Hats off to Paul with that idea.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT