VOLVO WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
May 18, 2013
Thomas Aiken
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   First time in this historic championship and you've made your way into the semifinal; describe how good that feels.   
THOMAS AIKEN:   Tiring.   It's been a long day.   Just happy to get a win in before the 18th hole.   I played solid this afternoon.   Francesco hit some decent shots but unfortunately he just didn't sink enough putts.   You know, it's been a long game this match play and 36 holes a day is definitely starting to take its physical toll.  
   
 Q.   Your first three matches were tight and this time you had a three‑up advantage; what was your mind‑set?  
THOMAS AIKEN:   Well, you can't really relax, because I had Thongchai make two birdies against me in the first round, and then I was 1‑up with about four to play and I ended up losing that one 1‑down.   So that kind of gave me a bit of a wake‑up call.  
So you need to keep pushing‑‑ or I wouldn't say pushing, but keep giving yourself birdie chances, and I did.   I gave myself a good chance on 15 but unfortunately didn't make it.   And on 16, sank a nice putt to close the match out, so nice to get one in a little bit early rather than the last.  
   
 Q.   You've played 70 holes already, is adrenaline enough to get you through the next two rounds if you go all the way to the final?   
THOMAS AIKEN:   It should be fine.   I mean, it's a tough golf course to walk.   We do get buggied around a little bit but it's extremely hilly and I have a blister or two.   It's an interesting physical test.   Wish I was a little bit fitter, but I think if you can get through the match tomorrow morning, you'll be extremely focused for the afternoon.   
   
 Q.   Branden Grace has made his way into the semifinal and you're on opposite sides of the draw; it could be an all‑South African final.   How great would that be?   
THOMAS AIKEN:   I'm glad that we are not playing each other yet and hopefully we can see each other in the final.   We've got a lot of history in this tournament with Gary Player and Ernie Els winning it so many times, so let it be another South African this year.   
I'm happy to get one done before the 17th hole, and played really well this afternoon.   Didn't really give him too many chances, and you know, happy to be through to tomorrow's semifinal.  
   
 Q.   You did get the job done very nicely because it was touch and go, very tight, nip and tuck early on, and the minute you got ahead, you stayed ahead.   
THOMAS AIKEN:   The first hole I won was 5, and then 7 was quite a turning point.   He hit it on the front of the green and it was a tough putt but I was in the bunker and hit a great bunker shot to about a foot.   He 3‑putted and I think that was a little bit of a turning point.   The rest, I can't really remember because I'm so bloody tired.  
We have a lot to play for this week.   It's a really important tournament, a lot of history, 50th year, a lot of South African history with Gary Player and Ernie Els winning it so many times.   Presidents Cup year, so you're trying to show them that you can play match play.   So there's a lot of stuff going on, and I just want to keep winning.   
   
 Q.   And on the South African perspective it could be you and Branden in the final.   
THOMAS AIKEN:   That would be fantastic.   Love to play Branden in the final; nice guy, good friend of mine, and let's keep it all‑South African.  
   
 Q.   If that's to happen, you certainly have to get past Thongchai Jaidee, if he's the man that progresses, and it looks like that at the moment.   
THOMAS AIKEN:   Had one run already at him this week, so know what to expect.   Thongchai is a great player and hell of a nice guy, too.   But when we are on the golf course, we are trying to kill each other.   Hopefully I'll get a second chance at that.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT