TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN
November 3, 2018
Thomas Aiken
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Quite a strange round, you dropped a shot, five quick birdies, then it goes a little bit quiet and another birdie towards the end.  Thoughts on today?
THOMAS AIKEN: I moved in the right direction, which is the main thing.  I think some of the leaders are playing quite well but you never know, you get the ball rolling on the greens around here and things change pretty quickly.  Gave myself a few chances today.  Didn't quite hit it as well as yesterday but hit some good shots.
Never going to complain with a 66 I guess.
Q. Now nice on this golf course to string a good run together because there are some scorable holes out there?
THOMAS AIKEN: Definitely.  Momentum is key.  There's definitely some scorable holes if you hit good shots, but if you don't, they can bite you.  So especially I think holes 10,11, 12, are kind of key for scoring.  If you get through those quite well, then it opens you up to a good round, and yeah, I mean, it's one of those courses that it can play -- it can look easy, and it can also look tough.
Q. Is it an enjoyable course to play?
THOMAS AIKEN: Definitely.  It's in great condition and the greens are some of the best we've putted on the whole year.  They are getting firmer and firmer as the week goes on, and you've got to think on your approach shots because they will run out and there's quite a few slopes out there.  I think it's a really challenging course but also fun, so I think whoever designed it did a pretty good job.
Q. 88 on The Race to Dubai coming into this week, good showing this week and next, and you're looking at that Top 60, is that at the back of your mind at the moment?
THOMAS AIKEN: Sure.  I think any of these Rolex Series Events are so big that you have a couple good performances, you jump way up there.  I'm not really thinking about Dubai at the moment.  Need to get in next week, as well.  Just take it one shot, one round at a time and hopefully we can keep climbing those points.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT