VOLVO WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
May 17, 2013
Thomas Aiken
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Tell us how good that feels?
THOMAS AIKEN:   Pretty tiring.   Long day's golf today.   We have gone through the 18th hole in both matches.   Played really well this morning.   Thongchai really finished unbelievably with two birdies in the last four holes to close out. 
Started off very well, 2‑up early.   Then I lost the tricky eighth and made bogey there.   He birdied the 9th to get it back to square. 
Then won 10.   We halved 11 with birdies.   Made birdie on 12 and won that one. 
Made a silly mistake on 13.   Got a little tricky with the wind out there.   It's been blowing out of the southeast the whole day and those holes, right next to the cliffs, it's down off the cliffs and you're not sure where it's coming and you can look pretty stupid with club selection.   Made a bad mistake there but fortunately for me he 3‑putted and we got a way with a halve. 
Then made a great par‑saving putt on 14.   And then lost 15 and 16 to birdies and thought, oh, this is feeling like this morning.   But just tried to make no mistakes and fortunately that was good enough.

Q.   When it's Ian Poulter, that must feel even worse, because you know what he's capable of. 
THOMAS AIKEN:   Yeah, he birdied 15 and 16 and hit it pretty close on 17.   I thought I needed to make birdie there and ran it about six‑foot past but made one coming back. 
And then the last, he hit a poor tee shot but got a way with it.   He hit it a little bit long from there and I hit a great iron shot in for my second and then left it short and thought, oh, he's going to make this one.   Fortunately I got away with it. 
Yeah, it all starts over again tomorrow morning.

Q.   Your thoughts on coming through on a very tiring day? 
THOMAS AIKEN:   Yeah, it's fantastic to be here for the rest of the week.   It all starts again tomorrow, another 36 holes.   Try to get some rest this evening.   I had two tough matches today.   Thongchai this morning; we played some really good golf this morning.   The back nine, every hole was won with birdie pretty much.   I think we made nine or ten birdies between us.   That was quite fun; not so fun losing 1‑down.
Then this afternoon against Ian, I got off to a good start and got it to 2‑up, but as you expect from him, he came back.   Then I had two good holes‑‑ three good holes, 10, 11, 12, to get back to 2‑up, and then he came back again, back to all‑square with two to play, and fortunately I just didn't make any mistakes on the last couple of holes and he made an error on the last. 

Q.   Feel more relieved or delighted at the moment? 
THOMAS AIKEN:   Yeah, it was a tiring day.   I hit‑‑ to be fair, I made a few nice short putts but I never made anything other than those.   I made the last tricky for myself.   It could have been a lot easier, but you know, it's done, it's over and I'm through for tomorrow and then it starts all over again. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT