THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 21, 2012
Thomas Aiken
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THOMAS AIKEN:   Quite a bit more bouncy than the last two days, but there were also some that were a bit soft.   It was hard to judge which one was going to do which.   But, yeah, if the wind does pick up, the course is going to definitely firm out and make for difficult scoring tomorrow. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
THOMAS AIKEN:   We'll see what Adam does on the last few holes.   I think he's 11‑under at the moment, so that's eight shots back, which around this golf course is makeable.   You shoot 4‑under par and that's very easy to catch up.
I've by no means played my way out of it.   I would have liked a few more, but I'd say if I get off to a solid start tomorrow, you never know.   I mean, the pressure is going to be on the leading few groups.   And how many times have we seen it that someone has come from behind?   So I'm no longer saying that I haven't got a chance, but it's going to take a good round of golf tomorrow.

Q.   Do you think putting is the key to a good round tomorrow?
THOMAS AIKEN:   Well, yeah, there's a lot of brutal holes, holes that you can't really get it too close to the flag.   So it definitely helps to sink a few long ones.   And every week there seems to be someone sinking a few long ones.   I sank one or two in the first two rounds.   Today I sank absolutely nothing.   But if that's as bad as it's going to get and it was a 71, then I'll take it.
So hitting it solid.   Looking forward to tomorrow.   Hopefully it does pick up a little bit and make things a bit interesting.

Q.   (Inaudible.)
THOMAS AIKEN:   I've played with Ernie quite a few times.   We played a practice round Tuesday together, actually.   I get along well with him.   Gets a bit despondent when the crowd is going, Ernie, Ernie all the time.   But there were a few cheers with me, and it was nice to play with a fellow countryman.   Such a great guy, really nice, down to earth, good friend of mine.   So it was a nice walk today. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT