ITALIAN OPEN
June 2, 2018
Thomas Aiken
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 7-under par, what's the secret to your play
THOMAS AIKEN: Sank a few more putts.  I was fortunate enough to be out a little earlier today, so I got some fresher greens and seemed to prove the difference.  Made some putts on the front nine and kept it going towards the beginning of the back and managed to avoid some mistakes coming in.
All in all, really pleased with the way that I played today.
Q. Talking about the putts, we've seen you win plenty over the years, and that's been one of the secrets to your game.  Is that the difference this rear?  It's been quiet to this point.
THOMAS AIKEN: It's been an interesting year.  I've done a lot of equipment changes, ball changes, all sorts of things.  It's been an interesting year.
I must say, the results have not been what I hoped they would, but I've been putting in a lot more work than I normally do.  I'm just happy to see it paying off, and yeah, today was quite solid for most of the round, and I sank some nice putts to keep the momentum going towards the end and that really is the difference.  You can keep that momentum going.  It's amazing how your mind-set changes going into the next hole and also the next day.
Hopefully tomorrow, keep giving ourselves the opportunities and converting them.
Q. Saturday, traditionally moving day, good performance with the putter today?
THOMAS AIKEN: Yeah, it's nice to be moving in the right direction for a change.  Yeah, it was a great day.  Pretty solid from tee-to-green for the most part except for the last three holes, and then the putter really behaved itself.  I gave myself some nice opportunities.  Converted quite a few of them.  You'd always like to make a few more but very pleased with the way I rolled the rock out there and hopefully keep it going tomorrow.
Q. You've only dropped one shot all week, a double-bogey.  Is that a sign the approach play is working well for you this week?
THOMAS AIKEN: I've been hitting my approach shots pretty good.  The last few years, it's been one of my strengths and I've been struggling with it the last few months.  It seems to be coming together.  I think it helps keeping the ball in the fairway, first of all, so I managed to do that fairly well for the most part of the round except towards the end.
If I can keep putting the ball in the fairway, I feel pretty comfortable with irons in my hand and the putter is feeling really comfortable on the greens.  So hopefully tomorrow, we can just keep this momentum going.
Q. Most people have commented on the soft conditions and how nice it is to be aggressive on the golf course, is that the way you feel about that as well?
THOMAS AIKEN: Definitely on the second shots, you can be very aggressive because it's so soft, the ball is not even spinning.  So wherever it pitches, it pretty much stays.
However, you have to be pretty careful because they are nice, old-fashioned greens, which tend to slope from one direction to the other.  There's no funny slopes to them but there's quite a sharp gradient from one side of the green to the other and if you leave your ball above the hole, with the greens being so soft, they get a bit bumpy.
Leaving yourself a downhiller is not the best way to make putts.  You've got to watch out for those things.  But other than that, if you leave yourself below the hole, you give yourself quite a good look on every hole.  That's pretty much what I did quite well today.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT