COMMERCIALBANK QATAR MASTERS PRESENTED BY DOLPHIN ENERGY
February 3, 2011
Thomas Aiken
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Describe the conditions that you played in today?
 THOMAS AIKEN: It wasn't easy out there. The wind really was blowing hard. Fortunately they put a few tees up which made things not impossible. It was a game of patience. You knew you were going to hit bad shots; it was inevitable. So you just need to stay as patient as possible, and at the end of the day, what your score adds up to is a score. 

 Q. How tough was it on the greens today? 
 THOMAS AIKEN: It's difficult. You've got to read the wind into your putts, and with the grain on these greens, as well, there's three things you're looking at: So you're looking at slope, grain and win; becomes a mathematical calculation. I actually seemed to putt pretty well. 
 Really happy with the way that I scrambled around the golf course. It wasn't a day for glorious golf shots. It was a day to keep the ball in play and try to make as low a score as could you.

 Q. Your demeanor looks like you've been in some kind of battle. 
 THOMAS AIKEN: Yeah, thanks. I battled with the wind.

 Q. In terms of the golf this morning, were you watching and were you thinking that they would have an advantage going out this afternoon? 
 THOMAS AIKEN: We got here just before ten o'clock and it was blowing pretty hard. I thought it was supposed to blow the whole day. There were notices saying they did not cut the greens from yesterday due to the high wind. You knew the wind was going to be there. It was just a question of whether the balls were going to move or not and they didn't. Luckily we got the day's play in. It was interesting out there, very interesting.

 Q. How creative did you have to be and how much chat do you have with your caddie?
 THOMAS AIKEN: You talk a lot with your caddie today. There's so many different shots that you can play. You can be in one position and play three different shots. You have to be really creative and hopefully the shot you decide to do pays off and it was the right one. Because when it goes wrong, it goes extremely wrong. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT