PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 16, 2010
Thomas Aiken
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Yeah, that was an interesting card today, seven birdies, one eagle and a couple of blemishes but all in all a pretty good days work?
 THOMAS AIKEN: Yeah, I played pretty solid. The two bogeys were two 3-putts, which are never pleasing. But I hit the ball really well, gave myself a lot of opportunities. Capitalised on most of them, and as normal, you're going to miss a few, which I did. But all in all, just wanted to really get myself in a position to have a chance tomorrow, and it looks at the moment like I've done that. 
 If I can go into tomorrow, maximum, four, five behind, then you're in with a shout. But all in all, very pleased with my round.

 Q. Not even sure about four or five behind, because Jeppe Huldahl looked like he would be overtaken quickly, but with the wind getting up, more and more players are dropping away. It's going to be a tough afternoon?
 THOMAS AIKEN: You never know around here. There are a lot of birdie opportunities. If someone starts to play well, it can all change very quickly, but the closing holes coming in, if you hit a few wayward shots, it can go the other way, too. You know, I mean, I stayed as patient as I could today. You're going to miss a few, you're going to make a few. So tomorrow's game plan, just go out there and give myself as many chances as possible, and if it's my day with the putter, then who knows.

 Q. What about the eagle at No. 5?
 THOMAS AIKEN: That was a nice hole. I hit a nice drive down the middle of the fairway, and then it was playing downwind on the second shot, and I had like 268 yards and I flushed a 5-wood to about 20 feet and rolled in a 20-footer. 
 So that got me off to a good start. It's always important to get off to a good start and capitalised from then on in. 

 Q. 61 in The Race to Dubai, so I suppose this is the kind of week that's just what the doctor ordered if you can keep this going?
 THOMAS AIKEN: Yeah, I mean, I think if you get to around 520, you're pretty safe. So my goal was to come up and play solid golf for next four or five weeks. It would be a great bonus. Who knows, if you had a win this week, all of a sudden you're contending for that Top 15 and things change very quickly in this game, as you well know. 
 A solid week this week could help a lot towards The Race to Dubai. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT