ABU DHABI GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 21, 2010
Thomas Aiken
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THOMAS AIKEN: It started off a little bit slow. I parred the first, birdied the par 5 second but then made double on the third, which kind of knocks your momentum quite a bit. 
 But then just stayed patient and missed quite a lot of putts on the first nine, actually, coming in but managed to make a birdie on 8 with a 2-putt to turn it level, and then just played really solid on the back nine. 

 Q. And those putts did start to drop?
 THOMAS AIKEN: Yeah, I sunk two putts really, two nice putts, so not really a lot of putts going in. I didn't capitalize on the par 510th, I made a par there which was playing kind of downwind which I hit a good tee shot, as well. 
 So it could have been better but I played a really solid back nine and always helps finishing with an eagle on the last, so 5-under par, I'll take it anyway.

 Q. The greens must be to your liking? 
 THOMAS AIKEN: Yeah, definitely, the weather is kind of like home. This is not too bad for winter. 
 So really enjoy the golf course. I played here two years ago and really enjoyed it then. It's a bit of an interesting week this week. 
 We have all the new clubs and different equipment. I think it's more a change of equipment from what you're used to than the grooves really, but you know, it will take a couple of weeks to get into the new stuff, but nice way to start off. 

 Q. Without blinding us with science, how are you getting into those changes? How are they affecting you? 
 THOMAS AIKEN: I don't think the grooves make that much difference to be honest. I haven't seen any less spin or anything off them. 
 I think the big difference is, when you are used to playing with the same set of irons for the last three years and then you have to change and get the weight you like and everything like that, you always end up having to fiddle for a few weeks until you get them perfect. 
 So I think that's more the big change than anything else, so Callaway is a fantastic company and the guys work really hard in trying to make us what we want. 
 So I'm sure we will get it right in the next few weeks. 

 Q. As opposed to a lot of players coming here with rustiness after cold winters, you have not had that much of a break and the fluency is still there?
 THOMAS AIKEN: Yeah, I've only had a week off over Christmas and new year. We have to play -- because it's our summer back home, so I had five weeks in a row after Dubai. And then had a week off and then this is my third in a row after this. 
 I'll be playing until after Dubai and then go home and play another one or two. And then have to try and figure out a way I can get a break after that. So probably take a break in March and then again in April. 

 Q. So many others are saying how fresh they are; you're not feeling jaded, are you? 
 THOMAS AIKEN: I wouldn't say I'm fresh but I wouldn't say I'm tired, either. I did get one week break in between there. Yeah, I mean, I'm looking forward to the new season. It does feel like this has rolled over into a new year, but I'll plan a break somewhere and then probably come back feeling really fresh. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT