BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 22, 2009
Thomas Aiken
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Very well positioned going into the weekend. How was it out there today?  
 THOMAS AIKEN: Not as easy as it looked because it's quite difficult to judge the wind around this golf course. You just need to keep your wits about you and stay patient. Fortunately, had a really good back nine, so in with a shout.   
  
  Q. You're coming on leaps and bounds this year. How has it been for you?  
 THOMAS AIKEN: I've been working really hard on my game the last few years, and I always believe that hard work pays off eventually. So this year seems to be the year that it's paying off for me. So it's been a great experience. I'm thoroughly enjoying myself, and just having fun out there.   
  
  Q. Being in the mix a couple of times, most recently in Italy, that must serve you well going into the weekend here.   
 THOMAS AIKEN: Sure, definitely. I've had experience back home. I've won seven times on the Sunshine Tour back in South Africa, so I know what it's like to win. And then it's all about staying patient, especially around this golf course, because it's definitely not easy. You sometimes take your medicine off the tee, and sacrifice hitting a long iron into a small green just to keep it on the short stuff rather than hit it in one of those dreaded bunkers. I think patience is going to win this it this week.  
    
  Q. So even in such a big tournament, you fancy your chances?   
 THOMAS AIKEN: I'm just going to go out, have fun and play one shot at a time and the scores will add up at the end of the day, and whoever is on top of the leaderboard is a deserved winner.   
  
  Q. What about your experience of the West Course, a very tricky place to get around.   
 THOMAS AIKEN: I haven't played since they redid the changes. Tuesday was the first time I played it, and I was blown away. I went out there and I wasn't sure where to hit it. There's just bunkers all over the place. It's a narrow golf course. It's almost links-like in a way in that the ball runs quite a lot. So you can bounce it into trouble, too, so you've got to be careful with where you land the ball.   
 But today was better. I played a lot more conservatively off the tee today, and sacrifice hitting a few long irons into the greens. But holed a few putts on the back nine. That's a key around here, because they are not easy to read, these greens. I've got a few horribly wrong when I thought they were going right-to-left, actually went left-to-right.   
 So that can make you look a bit stupid out there.   
  
  Q. When was the last time you played here?  
 THOMAS AIKEN: I think about five or six years ago. It's a way more challenging golf course now, which is a good thing. I think it's a great golf course. I think it's underestimated. It doesn't play long on the card, but it plays long on the golf course, because if you can make a few silly errors off the tees and really look stupid out there. 80 is not off the cards if you are not hitting a driver well. Today I think I hit probably five drivers the whole day, as opposed to yesterday, I hit more. But I think I played the course the right way today.  
 Length doesn't help you out there one bit. Patience is the name of the game.  
    
  Q. So I take it your break in the bush has revitalized you; you talked about that a few weeks ago.   
 THOMAS AIKEN: It's always nice to take a few breaks here and there. I'm just actually enjoying my golf again. That's the name of the game is go and have fun, and normally you play well.   
  
  Q. The 65 at Doral, did that show you what you could do, really?  
 THOMAS AIKEN: It gave me a lot of confidence, and as we all know, confidence is also the name of the game. I think I ended up missing by one shot in Doral, which I'm not saying that I'm doing it on a regular occasion; but it was a nice confidence boost for me, and to know that I can shoot that kind of score under that sort of pressure on the last day, and shoot the scores that I've been shooting over the last five months, at some point in the tournament, is a good sign.  
    
  Q. Seven wins on the Sunshine Tour, that shows you you can get into the winner's circle.   
 THOMAS AIKEN: I don't think you ever find a win; I think it finds you. If you look at all of the guys that win on a week-to-week, just things go right for them. They have a little bit of luck and it ends up -- people say, it's your week, it's your week, and in this game, it's so true. Yes, you play well, and you might play well for a number of weeks, but when you win, it really is your week. Things just end up going your way.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT