SOUTH AFRICAN OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
December 19, 2008
Thomas Aiken
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. An amazing 64 that you shot at Pearl Valley; how did it go for you?
 THOMAS AIKEN: Today was a bit better than yesterday. I played well yesterday. I just had two bad holes, a double and a triple. So it had potential. 
 But today everything seemed to click. I made eight birdies today, teed off 10, which was my first hole, and had five birdies and no drops on the back nine for a 31, and three birdies and no drops on the back, which is the front nine, so I shot 64.

 Q. We don't know too much of what happened last week at Leopard Creek, but I'm sure you've focused and you've strategised in order to finish strong this week around? 
 THOMAS AIKEN: Sure. I mean, obviously last week as a little disappointing, and it wasn't that easy to get it out of my mind but eventually did coming Thursday. 
 I guess you just have to take the positives out of it. I had the two great rounds on a Friday and Saturday and didn't really may that bad on a Sunday. I just didn't sink any putts and hit one bad golf shot. 
 Yeah, it's a new week. Obviously playing decently. So I put myself in a good position again this week to give myself a chance. So that's what golf is all about. It's about giving yourself chances. And one of them will come. 

 Q. Not too much wind is expected. Your club selection, did it interfere with the strategy that you came into this tournament with? 
 THOMAS AIKEN: Today was actually a bit funny. There was not much wind but the wind that was there was swirling. It switched on you quite a lot during the course of the round, so it made the course quite tricky today funny enough. 
 Lucky it only switched on me about two times and I managed to get up-and-down both times that it switched. It wasn't as easy as it looks. I was expecting it to blow this afternoon. It looked like it was going to pick up at around ten o'clock, but it just seemed to disappear. 
 Yeah, so it's a good golf course when the with the edge is like this.

 Q. Just your thoughts on the course condition at the moment?
 THOMAS AIKEN: It's fantastic. Leisurecorp has done a fantastic job with the SA Open. It really is something special this year. It's got it's name back. It's the second oldest golf tournament in the world, and then they have gone everything all-out, even up to giving us new players' badges for the week. 
 So it's got almost like a little bit of a British Open feel to it and it's nice to see the crowds. It's fantastic to see all of the people coming out to watch. That's what we like to see, especially South Africans, to support the South African golfers. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT