COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 29, 2017
Thomas Aiken
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Thoughts on that last round out there today?
THOMAS AIKEN: Yeah, it was an interesting day.  Started out quite nicely.  Not much wind.  And then kind of picked up on our eighth hole and started picking up as the day went on.  It made it quite difficult to adjust but made the back nine certainly very interesting.
Unfortunately didn't hit too many great shots on the back nine but had some good saves and hit some really good putts.  Really, just the last two putts on 17, 18, I hit two really good putts, and I don't know how they missed the hole.
Q. Another great result.  You started the season off so well.
THOMAS AIKEN: Yeah, it's another top five.  Obviously looking for that win, but you can't be too complacent about a top five.  But obviously never nice to end that way.  Hopefully get ourselves in that position again next week and close it off.
Q. Confidence must be quite high as you say, because game is in great shape, clearly.
THOMAS AIKEN: Yeah, I've been playing nicely.  I've been playing really nicely for the last two months.  I actually played really well on the whole of last year.  I just tried to piece a few things together and unfortunately they never came in one go.
There were a lot of solid things happening last year, and just not too many good results.  Had good results on the courses that I knew but the ones that I didn't, I was there or thereabouts.  But feeling good for the year, and looking forward to a good 2017.
Q. In the end is it a case of so near, yet so far?
THOMAS AIKEN: Obviously when you've got an opportunity to win and you don't, it's obviously disappointing.  But you know, it's not the first time it happened and it won't be the last.  You know, there's days like that when you close well and you end up winning.  I've done that before, as well.
So you play one shot at a time and you try your best, and unfortunately it came that close.
Q. When you say that close, you're of course talking about the birdie opportunity on the 18th.  Talk us through that and the bogey before that on 17, because each occasion, you hit good putts.
THOMAS AIKEN: Yeah, I hit two great putts.  17 is playing really tough.  The wind is gusting hard off the left, and you have the grandstand on the left of the tee box, so you can't really feel it.  Unfortunately I just started the ball a little bit too far right, and missed right of the green and had a bad lie.  I hit a pretty good chip, actually, but it was a 15-footer, a 12-footer.  Obviously in the wind, it's not easy to hole all of those, but I hit a great putt and the wind just kept it out.
18, hit a good drive and unfortunately didn't quite catch my second shot and I think it was about five yards short in the bunker.  I hit a really good bunker shot to give myself an opportunity to finish on 16-under.  Thought I hit a fantastic putt and I still don't know how it missed.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT