PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 15, 2015
Thomas Aiken
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What are your thoughts on 6-under to start the tournament?  
THOMAS AIKEN: Yeah, I mean, I got off to a good start, starting on the back nine.  Made a nice birdie on 11, two great shots into 12, the par-5, to about ten feet, unfortunately missed the eagle.  Made another birdie.  Played two solid holes.   
On 15, had a bit of magic from 75 yards.  It's always nice when you can hole the fairway shots.  That kind of kick started the momentum.   
I did the same thing on 17, the par-5, I hit driver, 2-iron to about ten feet and made the putt.   
I was flying at that stage, and then starting the back nine, I hit some great iron shots.  Unfortunately didn't capitalize on them.  Didn't make too many putts on the back nine.  Played pretty solid and happy with the start.  Got a long weekend ahead of me.   
 Q.  Were you conscious of fact that it might be a disrupted tournament?  We've already had a fog, but to get the a low one under the belt already?  
THOMAS AIKEN: After last year, very much so.  I had a good start last year.  I think I was 9- or 10-under after two rounds, and then all of a sudden everything came to an abrupt halt and things stood at 36 holes.  That's always in the back of your mind when you see the forecast for the weekend.  Hopefully for the Portuguese fans and all that have come out to watch, they deserve a good win this year.  They haven't had too much luck when it comes to golf tournaments.  For the majority of the year, it's perfect.  If anyone needs to save a drought out there, have a golf tournament.   
 Q.  It's good to get it done, isn't it?  That sun is setting pretty quickly?  
THOMAS AIKEN: We were lucky to finish.  It's going to go down quite rapidly at the moment and it's going to get cold.  I don't think they are going to get finished today.  Hopefully it doesn't change our tee times tomorrow and we can get the whole day done tomorrow and the weather stays away on the weekend.   
 Q.  Going to ask about having your wife on the bag.  Is that good fun?  
THOMAS AIKEN: It's a lot of fun.  It's always nice having her on the bag.  She's got a few more events left with me and then someone else starts up.  We're making the most of it and having a good time on the golf course.  She's been a star at the tournaments she has caddied.  Thank you very much, Katie, really appreciate it.   
 Q.  You have given her a notice?  
THOMAS AIKEN: I think it's more the other way around.  She's given me her notice.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT