NCAA MEN'S 2ND & 3RD ROUNDS: JACKSONVILLE
March 19, 2015
Jaylen Allen
Spencer Collins
Mike Young
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 ARKANSAS - 56
  WOFFORD - 53
 
 COACH MIKE YOUNG: A great college basketball game.  Hats off to Coach Anderson and his team.  I'm so disappointed that we didn't win, but you know, Arkansas is Arkansas.  They are very, very good, and Michael Qualls is terrific, and they chased us off some things, as I thought they would.  But again, I'm just so darned disappointed that we don't have the opportunity to come back over here on Saturday and play again with this team.  We knew we had a great team coming in.  Arkansas is just a little bit better.
Q. How close do you think those two threes were to going in, and what was going through y'all's mind in the final seconds?SPENCER COLLINS: I thought the threes were going to go in, but unfortunately they rimmed out.  That's part of the game sometimes.  Shots go in, shots don't go in.  We had a couple of good looks at it.  They were wide open.  But like I said earlier, unfortunately they just didn't go in for us at the right time.
Q. Looking at the tempo that Arkansas plays and also just with turnovers, how do you feel like Wofford was able to play and slow down the tempo today and play at our pace?JAYLEN ALLEN: We just came out and did what we always do.  We rebounded and played good defense, and we don't take bad shots and we try to limit our turnovers.  We feel like if we do that, we control the tempo of the game.  If it falls in our favor -- it kind of fell in our favor tonight, we just couldn't get some shots to go down at the end.  Just bad luck.
Q. What did both of you guys think of Michael Qualls because he seemed to be about the only thing Arkansas had going offensively?SPENCER COLLINS: Well, the dude is athletic.  He's really, really great.  He has a great shot.  He's really athletic.  He can get to the rim.  But I felt like our team limited him in a way, keeping him off the offensive boards, just trying to contain him.  But like I say, he's a really great player, and he was really a key part for their victory tonight.  Our team tried to do our best to contain him.
Q. You guys seemed to do a really good job of keeping Bobby Portis under control.  I know he's going to get his points, but what was the key to keeping him from going crazy on you?COACH MIKE YOUNG: One, we've got a really good defensive team.  We aren't as big as Arkansas, so we can't guard him with one.  We have to guard him with our team, and we have to move in the direction of the ball when it's in Bobby's hands down there and give him some things to think about, put him in a beehive for lack of a better expression.  When he floors it, he's got somebody, another player digging at the ball, trying to grab it out of there.  Now, he made a great play in the first half and he stuck it back up to 14 for a made three.  One of their only made threes for the game. But the only big, the only big post guy that really roughed us up was Okafor.  I thought we did a really nice job on Portis, and he's obviously a very, very fine basketball player.
Q. I was just wondering if you thought there was anything they did specifically defensively on Cochran or whether he just kind of had a bad night.COACH MIKE YOUNG: You know, length and athleticism is a tricky thing, and they've got a lot of that.  And I thought Coach Anderson at some point would put Qualls on him, so athletic and so aggressive.  I mean, they did a nice job of extending his cut with a person guarding the screener.  He's been a tremendous, tremendous player for us.  He'd be the first to tell you he missed some that he typically gets down, but we're not here without that guy.  I admire him greatly.
Q. Coach, speaking to that length that Arkansas has, you guys were able to offensive rebound very well today and your second chance points were huge.  How were you able to do that against such a big team like Arkansas?  What was the communication like?COACH MIKE YOUNG: As good as Arkansas is, we thought we would have some opportunities on the glass.  They don't -- they're size rebounders.  We don't have size rebounders.  We've got guys that have a nose for the ball.  I thought Justin and Skinner and C.J. Newman had a big stick back there in the second half.  Scores in the 50s, we've got nine more shots than Arkansas, we had eight turnovers.  I would bet my last dollar we won that game.  But we didn't, obviously.  We'll go back to Spartanburg.
Q. Talk to us about the last possession --COACH MIKE YOUNG: Not good.  Yes, sir.
Q. Were you surprised that they did not foul?COACH MIKE YOUNG: No, no.  You think about Portis and Qualls, their ability to rebound the ball, wasn't surprised they didn't foul.  And I didn't handle that last one very well.  We had something we wanted to go to, and I don't know -- we just did not handle it very well.  We've been in that situation any number of times, and you know, have bounced right to it.  For whatever reason, we didn't handle it well, and that will bother me for quite some time.
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT