NBA DRAFT
June 25, 2009
Terrence Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You're playing in the New York, New Jersey area, your all-around game will definitely contribute to the Nets, with Vince Carter being traded, that will give you an opportunity to showcase your skills.   
 TERRENCE WILLIAMS: Yeah, I think I woke up this morning and kind of had sort of an idea what was going to happen when I seen that Vince Carter trade go down.   
 So I'm just honored to be here. It's a great market with New Jersey, you know, they will be moving to Brooklyn eventually. Everything is just on the up and up. I'm just happy to be a part of this whole organization right now.   
  
  Q. Nobody is really expecting the Nets to do much the next couple of years, and they may not get until Brooklyn hopefully three or four years at best, does that take some of the pressure off you knowing that you don't have to deliver a lot in the first year or two, nobody is expecting much of the franchise, does that take the pressure off?  
 TERRENCE WILLIAMS: I love to win, so losing is a lot of pressure on me. I come from a winning program, so I'm going to come in and try to turn the program around. It is a lot of pressure, because you are in the NBA and you are part of an organization and you want to win and you want to win for the fans also.   
 It is a lot of pressure no matter what the circumstances are or the expectations.  
  
  Q. Talk about some of your new teammates, Devin Harris and Courtney Lee or Lopez, some of these guys you'll play with, how do you feel about that?  
 TERRENCE WILLIAMS: Great players. Everybody knows Devin Harris, he's an All-Star and he's a great player. You see what Courtney Lee does off the bench, so that's a great asset to the team. Lopez, I played against him when he was at Stanford in the tournament, great player.   
 So we have a lot of key, young, great players. All we've got to do, it may take a year or two, who knows, it may take one year but bring our great young players together and try to build from what we already established last year.  
  
  Q. What does it say that a player like you goes this high in the NBA Draft?   
 TERRENCE WILLIAMS: Like the Adidas logo, anything is possible. You never know, a lot of people had me late first round, and after a couple workouts, he could go higher. It just goes to show you after four years, hard work does pay off, from being a little kid playing with a ball to talking with you guys here today.   
  
  Q. You're the first senior taken in the Draft. What does that say about how the game has changed over the years?   
 TERRENCE WILLIAMS: It says a lot. You know, it says -- like I said, you stay in school four years, it does pay off for you. To go 11 -- some people call it a weak Draft. I think it's a great Draft. It's just not a lot of clear-cut picks in the Draft like there was in years before. Like I said, it shows if you stay in school four years, it pays off for you and it shows indicative of tonight, going first of the seniors.  
  
  Q. Are you interested in the fashion? And are you happy to be in this market for the culture? This is a good place to be.   
 TERRENCE WILLIAMS: This is a great market, trust me, for a lot of reasons. If you love to shop -- I love to shop -- New York is right across the bridge, New Jersey is right there.   
 So everything works out perfect for me. I have no complaints for me about being here in the Tri-Cities. I look forward to this and going across the water for my press conference and thank you for the suit comment, I'll tell my girlfriend that.   
  
  Q. She picked all that?  
 TERRENCE WILLIAMS: She did all this. She has great taste.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT