TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 22, 2016
Malik Jenkins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Oklahoma - 66, Texas Tech - 59   
THE MODERATOR: Questions for Malik.   
 Q.  Malik, where do you feel like you guys grew the most from last week, obviously coming out of that West Virginia game, all of you really wanted to come out and make a statement tonight, but where do you feel like you guys grew most?  
MALIK JENKINS: Just trying to be more physical.  Last week I just felt like we got pushed around a lot.  And I think we tried to bring out a better and more physical mentality.   
I believe we brought it out, and we fought every quarter of this game.  I mean, we came up short.  Oklahoma is a really good team.  They have really good skill sets.  And we just came up short.   
And we just gotta get better.  And that's the plan, just gotta play more physical and just execute and not have too many busts out on defense.   
 Q.  What was creating the most busts tonight, especially for Mixon, was it just his ability, or did you all make some mistakes in how to approach him?  
MALIK JENKINS: Mixon is a great player.  But I mean, there was a lot of mistakes on our end, too, just gaps and communication-wise.  We didn't really communicate as well as we wanted to.   
And we ended up paying for it.  So Mixon, he's a great athlete, like I said, and his O line blocked really good but we weren't in some spots that we were supposed to be in.   
 Q.  You all had some good stops in the first half.  Second half, didn't stop them at all.  Was there a difference between what they threw at you or was it just --  
MALIK JENKINS: No, I don't -- I'm not sure how to answer that.  We just gotta get better.  We just gotta read better.  We have to communicate.   
I think the communication we had in the second half as linebackers wasn't as good as it was in the first half.   
 Q.  In a high-scoring game like this, is the mentality just kind of to keep the offense within scoring distance, and did you feel you achieved it?  
MALIK JENKINS: In my mindset I just wanted to give the offense the ball as many times as we could.  And we just couldn't do it.   
Like, it wasn't like, oh, let's just keep -- let's just have a shootout.  I felt we had opportunities to stop them and give our offense the ball back because I know everybody knows that offense can score at any moment.  And I just felt like we didn't get where we wanted to be at.   
 Q.  Had trouble crediting turnovers.  Last week you took a big step forward creating turnovers.  But no turnovers.  
MALIK JENKINS: I just think the main thing we've been concentrating on overall like this week was just effort and just running to the ball, everybody corralling the ball.   
I felt like the first guy should secure the tackle and other people coming in strip the ball.  And just people weren't going for the ball, so...   
 Q.  Talked about communication difficulties.  What could be causing that?  Is it something that had to do with the complexity of the defense that makes it difficult to communicate, or what's going on?  
MALIK JENKINS: I'd say just recognizing the formations faster.  We just have to be -- we have to be more alert.   
I feel like we were kind of lackadaisical the second half just knowing the formation.  They were changing up different formations.  They were switching it up on us.  And we didn't prepare that well coming in the second half.  And it bit us.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT