LPGA CORNING CLASSIC
May 27, 2004
Lee Ann Walker-Cooper
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PAUL ROVNAK:  Thanks for coming in and joining us.  66, I think that ties your lowest round for the year so far.
LEE ANN WALKER-COOPER:  Yes, it does.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Top of the leaderboard, that's a nice place to be.
LEE ANN WALKER-COOPER:  Yes, it is.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Tell us about your round today.
LEE ANN WALKER-COOPER:  The golf course is in great shape.  This is the fourth time I've been here, and it's beautiful.  The greens are great.  We couldn't ask for anything better.  The weather has been good.  As far as -- I have been having trouble my first rounds a little bit, so today I went out with the mindset of I'm going to have six birdies, and that's what I focused on.  And luckily I had six birdies, so I'm trying to think a little bit differently.  But this golf course is really scorable.  Accuracy is the key here.  And I just had some birdies, just went after the birdie putts.  The greens are holding pretty good.  And just put a good stroke on it and let the ball go in the hole.
Q.  Are you going to focus on eight birdies tomorrow?
LEE ANN WALKER-COOPER:  I think I'm going to go for six or seven again tomorrow.  I think I might go up one, and go for seven.
Q.  How did you fair here on your previous Corning appearances?
LEE ANN WALKER-COOPER:  I was conditional the other three years.  I believe I made the cut in one of the Corning events.
Q.  So this is your easily your best showing so far, then?
LEE ANN WALKER-COOPER:  Yes, and I really like the golf course.  It's a great golf course.
Q.  How does today's round compare with your best rounds in any other event?
LEE ANN WALKER-COOPER:  I had a 66 the second round in Atlanta, so this 66 is my lowest score.
Q.  The condition of the course is perfect, the weather is perfect, it's expected to stay that way, do you envision that there will be a lot of scores in the low, mid to low 60s this week?
LEE ANN WALKER-COOPER:  Yes, I think there are going to be a lot of people shooting really good numbers.  It's going to be anybody's game.
Q.  In addition to focusing on six or seven birdies, anything else you want to do tomorrow?  Do you change your thinking at all going into the second round, knowing that you're on top of the leaderboard now or at least will be close to the top of the leaderboard?
LEE ANN WALKER-COOPER:  I am going to try to not think about being at the top of the leaderboard, just do like I did today, just think about the birdies and just try to think my way around the golf course.
Q.  This is a position I'm guessing you're not very accustomed to?
LEE ANN WALKER-COOPER:  No, I won once on the Mini-Tour last year, so this is a rare position.
Q.  Anymore pressure or less pressure being in this position after one round?
LEE ANN WALKER-COOPER:  You know what, right now I don't think there's that much pressure, because I know there are a lot of low scores out there.  There's going to be a lot of good scores something in.  So I'm just going to be one of the bunch.
Q.  How about your year so far?
LEE ANN WALKER-COOPER:  This is my first year being exempt and it's quite a bit different than being conditional.  I was conditional my other three years.  I've made three cuts, missed two of them by a shot.  So like I said, it's my -- my first rounds have kind of been putting me behind the 8-ball a little bit, so it's nice to get off to a good start this week.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Let's go through the score card.  Just go over the six birdies.  If you can remember what you hit in and how far the putt was.
LEE ANN WALKER-COOPER:  Okay.  No. 2, I had a -- my second shot I went well left into the trees, so I hit a little 8-iron over the trap and got it on the green and made probably about a 30 foot putt.

On 4 I hit I believe it was a pitching wedge into the green, just short on the fringe and made that putt.  It was probably about 10, 15 feet.

On 5 I made the green in two and had about a 30 foot putt.  I missed it and had a tap-in birdie.

On 8 I hit that pin-high, I had a gap wedge in about 90 yards and was pin-high with about a ten foot putt and made that.

On 11, the par-3, I hit a 5-iron into there, short.  I had about a 20-foot putt and made it.

On 17 I hit a small 9-iron in there about 113 yards and had about an eight foot putt.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT