THE SOLHEIM CUP
October 23, 1994
Dottie Mochrie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DOTTIE MOCHRIE:  I don't know what happened  today.  I really don't.  That was the best I played all  year.  And you know, it -- I think it started around  the first hole when, you know, I had it uphill and into  the wind and I wanted to hit 5 and Ralph said, no, I  think it is too much; you need to hit 6.  Staked it at  one; lipped it out, and just finally realized that I  was so pumped I needed to back off and just keep  swinging hard and everything was just at it all day  long.  


Q.  Do you feel it is life or death out there,  Dottie?  

DOTTIE MOCHRIE:  In what terms?  


Q.  In terms of winning?  

DOTTIE MOCHRIE: No.  


Q.  What do you feel about that?  

DOTTIE MOCHRIE: I am out here to do my job  represent my country; I had to do everything to win  that first hole.  Which I never did all week, but still  came out okay.  


Q.  How much did it hurt, Dalmahoy two years ago,  and how badly have you been wanting this win to come  back?  

DOTTIE MOCHRIE:  It was pretty bad.  I think  I said earlier in the week probably one of the longest  flights I have ever had back, and it definitely was a  factor.  I know everybody that was on that team at  Dalmahoy two years ago that was first and foremost on  their mind when they started accumulateing points was  to have the chance to get it back.  I mean, you can't  do too much if you are sitting outside the ropes and  can't even come to The Greenbrier and play.  There are  so many people that were on that team and even those  who weren't, I know Deb Richard tried her heart out to  get here and, you know, it meant so much to her just to  have the chance to come back to play.  I mean, it is  probably a warn out cliche, but you never know what you  had until you lost something.  


Q.  Dottie, did you feel that you were an  inspirational player this week and maybe JoAnne might  have something on that too?  

DOTTIE MOCHRIE: I don't know.  I mean I know  I had a great partner the first two days and we kind of  cheered each other on and the sooner we could get off  the golf course, and get back out to root everybody  else on, I thought it was very important to get back  out there and let everybody else know that we want them  to win their matches as much as we wanted to win ours.  And if I happen to inspire somebody, so be it.  I mean,  that is great.  I would hope that is what would have  happened.  


Q.  JoAnne, would you mind commenting on that?  

JOANNE CARNER: I think their fieriness; their  aggressiveness was catchy; that is why I put them off  first.  I knew they were ready.  I knew -- I knew they  were ready.  And I knew once, as I said before, one's  aggressiveness feeds on the other and if I could bring  them out winning, they would fire up everybody else.  


Q.  Dottie, when I watched when you guys went off  the first day off the first tee, and you sort of walked  ahead with Brandie and your faces were very serious and  determined; looking behind you, Lotte and Helen looked  very loose; they were all smiling.  Were you guys  pumped?  Was there nerves going on?  Were you like --  

DOTTIE MOCHRIE:  Starting out we were both  really nervous, and you know, we mentioned this to each  other on Thursday night and the word "sorry" was not to  come out of either of our mouths no matter what we did;  just dig it out whereever your partner put it.  Fortunate, when -- we only missed one fairway so there  wasn't much digging going on.  There would be no  apologies and you just go play golf.  


Q.  Dottie, speak on what JoAnne meant to the  team this week?  

DOTTIE MOCHRIE:  Well, we made -- first of  all, we started out the week by making her sell us how  she and Don met; how she talked him into shanking the  shots; we thought we could do it to anybody.  And to me, I mean, I have always been one  that didn't love match play, but I think I have gained  a new appreciation from it from her point of view.  I  mean, I know, for me, the first day was really crucial  because we had a match that never had any movement in  it at all for the first 8 holes.  But when we got one  down, we felt like it was no big deal.  We came right  back.  And got it back at 12 and she just said, just  hang in there as long as you can because the tide of  the play match can change so quickly.  We ran off 3 out  of the next 4; I think in the past, I would have gotten  a little antsy and tried to force too many things to  happen and when Brandie and I both realized we were  just a little too "tried to make it happenish" (sic),  if you want to force the issue after 11, things just  started to go in from every where from 12 on in.  I  think we both sat there at dinner Thursday night; had  we not done that we may not have come to the conclusion  we did after 11 holes on Friday.  So that you know,  that is priceless.  


Q.  Beth said that more than anything than the  other two teams this was more. . .  

DOTTIE MOCHRIE: This was a team.  Even though  she sequestered us, she did, and it was good.  We had a  round table on Thursday night and you know, everybody  was just totally comfortable with everybody; there was  no -- there was just no one dominent person all week;  nobody was grumpy, nobody was down, nobody was anything  but 100% behind the them and it was just great.  


Q.  Is that something you didn't have in the  previous two rounds?  

DOTTIE MOCHRIE:  There just wasn't the unity  that there was here.  We all laugh when Betsy King's  caddy walked out on the street when we were walking in  Wednesday when it poured and a car came down and  splashed it and covered him with mud and he said I took  a bullet for the team and we said we probably all would  have done that.  It was a team effort from day one.  


Q.  Could you just run down your plays briefly?  

DOTTIE MOCHRIE: I came real close to making  two ones and I made -- that is scary.  One of them was  with a 2-iron.  It was just, you know, it was just great.  The irons were just all over.  And I think the longest  putt I made was about 15 feet.  


Q.  Did you miss any greens today?  

DOTTIE MOCHRIE: I putted off the back fringe  on -- well I was on the fringe at 2 and back fringe at  3.  Those were the only 2.  


Q.  Those ones on 7 and what other hole?  

DOTTIE MOCHRIE: 7, yeah, that is where I hit  2-iron to about 2 feet from the hole.  


Q.  Did Catrin ever say anything to you;  commented how well you were playing?  

DOTTIE MOCHRIE:  Until it was all over and  she said it was just the best she had ever seen anybody  play and I kind of -- I kept saying, just don't -- I  didn't even know how many I had made.  I knew after --  I guessed after I made the birdie at 9, I thought I  made 3 in a row.  As it turns out, I made 4, so I just  never really had a recollection of what was going on  and I think that, again, I have to credit it to JoAnne  because she really made it a point of telling us that  every hole is over; it is a match in itself; just go on  and it doesn't matter if you have made 10 or 2, it is  over.  And that was just really important, so I never  never even looked back; just kept firing forward.  


Q.  What was the other hole that you were real  close; how close?  

DOTTIE MOCHRIE:  I had a conceded birdie at  6.  That was about four feet there.  Made the birdie at  7.  Holed it for 12 feet at 8; holed it from 12 feet at  9.  Had a conceded birdie from 2 feet at 11.  And made  it from about 12 feet at 13.  


Q.  Where was the other ace, close ace?  

DOTTIE MOCHRIE:  11.  It jumped right over  the top of the hole.  


Q.  What did you hit there?  

DOTTIE MOCHRIE:  8-iron.  


Q.  What would you say to someone who might not  understand your intensity?  

DOTTIE MOCHRIE: What would you say to him?  


Q.  I wouldn't know.  That is why I am asking  you.  

DOTTIE MOCHRIE: Well, I am not -- this is my  job and I love my job.  And I mean, I know you guys  write with a passion for what you do.  And this is the  way I take my job.  


Q.  Fred Couples' performance in the Ryder Cup  was credited with raising his game to another level.  I  know you are near or at the top tier.  Did this inspire  you to play even better?  

DOTTIE MOCHRIE:  I think the way, especially  the last two matches came out yesterday not just  because we beat Laura, but because we played so well  when we did win it and had such a tough match.  I just  felt going into today and even though I didn't hit it  great on the range this morning, I just felt great on  the first tee and I hope -- and just any self doubts  there were about firing it at a pin and just keep going  and trying to make as many as you can instead of  getting -- I think sometimes in mental play you get  real conservative and start to wonder where you are  against the field and start staring at the leader board  too much.  Hopefully that is gone.  


Q.  This will carry-over into 95?  

DOTTIE MOCHRIE:  I sure hope that it will  start next week and keep on going.  


Q.  Do you think you sent a message to the rest  of the team?  

DOTTIE MOCHRIE:  I hope so.  I hope.  I know  I watched Betsy in front of me struggling; hitting it  really good and just missing a bunch of short putts and  I thought if I can just putting low numbers on the  board and watch the up column keep going up and up, I  hope they realize there is a lot of birdies to be made  out there, and you know, if one person can do it we  have such a talented team that everyone could.  


Q.  Ever give any thought how your intensity is  perceived by your opponents and whether that is to your  advantage or. . .  

DOTTIE MOCHRIE: I really don't care.  I know  what it takes for me to play well and I know I am  professional about it; I don't get in anybody's way,  and I have to be happy with myself, first and foremost.  


Q.  If something that you say or do upsets your  opponent, you don't think that that matters?  

DOTTIE MOCHRIE: I have to be totally  professional in talking about it.  If I am happy with  myself, I can't apologize to anyone else, I could  apologize, but I can learn from experience, but I am  still happy with what I have done because I don't just  fly off the cuff.  I mean, I am certainly not going to  make a 40 footer and go "thanks."  You know, if it's a  crucial situation, I am certainly not going to  apologize about making a great shot or trying to win a  match.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT