THE SOLHEIM CUP
October 22, 1994
Dottie Mochrie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Dottie, can you talk little bit about that  shot Brandie hit with the 5-iron that she almost holed  number 7; how big was that shot for just what happened  in the match?  

DOTTIE MOCHRIE: What worked out really well  for us is she got caught in between the yardages a lot  today and I played first off every hole; it was even  more crucial for us on the par threes because we are  exactly a club and a half a part.  If I told her I had  to tone down a 3-iron or if I hit a 3-iron that went  too far, it was very easy for her to pick a club and I  had hit a 3-iron that went 200 yards.  Since she was  going to kill a 5-iron and she backed off it, and as it  worked out it was an absolutely perfect.  So I think we  helped each other along on the golf course really well  all day because we had played our practice rounds  together; we knew exactly how far each one hit it; our  comforts; our weaknesses and we just played to each  other strengths all day long.  


Q.  You guys had some huge saves today.  Can you  talk about number 16, behind the bleachers?  

DOTTIE MOCHRIE: She was asking about the save  at 16. And we did have a few of them.  I think the one  at 15 was probably even more important than 16 was.  That was the first time Brandie had been out of the  match in a few holes. That is one of the tougher holes  on the golf course.  The back pin placement, it set up  for me to hit a fairway wood in there; made a really  good 4 footer for par there and then we both made kind  of crummy swings at trying to get it into that back pin  placement at 16.  And I was trying to get myself in  position where I could chip in for four and then when  she made that 6, 7 footer for par, that was just huge.  It saved all the momentum.  We really started when she  made the putt for birdie at 14.  She had a horrible  lie; real thick.  It was a little downhill.  


Q.  Do you have any kind of sinking feelings on  16?  

DOTTIE MOCHRIE: Did I?  


Q.  Yeah, on 16.  

DOTTIE MOCHRIE: No, I really didn't because  she hit some really good chip shots in kind of awkward  lies plus I figured if she got it anywhere in 10 feet  you might as well pick it up it was good.  The reads,  every time we got behind a putt, today we agreed on the  read and our speed was perfect.  


Q.  How important is it to beat Laura in the  sense of what it does to the rest of the team?  

DOTTIE MOCHRIE: I think-- well, regardless, I  mean, they didn't put Laura out first on Friday.  I  think it is important to go out and win that first  match.  Win the first hole; win the first match.  It  sets the momentum and if you take down Laura Davies in  the mean time, it only makes big set win even bigger.  


Q.  Dottie, do you feel that a chemistry has  developed between you and Brandie something that could  carry on in the future?  

DOTTIE MOCHRIE: I hope so.  I have had a  wonderful time playing with her.  We just seem to feed  off each other's emotions because we think alike and  our flight pattern is real similar.  I am not as long  as her.  To play alternate shot isn't a big deal  because I am not working from one side of the golf  course and she another.  And it is just-- it worked out  perfectly.  We both are very aggressive and don't leave  many putts short and aren't really afraid to make that  3, 4 footer.  If you have a partner that is comfortable  in that situation, the same situation that you are  pretty comfortable in, you just really go out and play  like you are playing yourself.  


Q.  Have you been close on the Tour?  

DOTTIE MOCHRIE: We have been a lot closer  than I think people realize.  Especially we go overseas  or whatever, we played -- we never played together.  We  always kind of hung around together and our families  have been rooting each other and gotten paired together  a lot.  I think that is even more important.  We have  played a lot of golf together.  


Q.  At the third hole when Laura missed that  birdie putt, you gave a pump and said "yes," as I  recall.  She looked liked she was a little upset.  Did  you talk to her about it?  

DOTTIE MOCHRIE: Talked to who about what?  


Q.  Should she have been upset with you for doing  that when she missed?  

DOTTIE MOCHRIE: I don't think anybody would  have done anything different.  I mean, I know she is  not -- I am sure she is not just sad when somebody  misses a put to tie her.  They are certainly not  apologetic.  My most vivid memories of Laura Davies in  any match play competition is to go with the flow and  she roots her partners as hard as I root mine on.  


Q.  Do you feel that there is any personal  satisfaction -- I know you and Brandie I think scored a  half a point in two years.  Did you discuss that  before?  

DOTTIE MOCHRIE: I think we just, in general, wanted it back  and wanted to contribute more than we had.  There is no  sense or no way of telling if-- I mean, I could have  shot-- well what happened, like even 4 years ago like  Nona, when I was playing with with Kathy Gerring, we  shot 6 under in 4 ball and lost.  After 15 holes we  were 6 under and lost, so there is no way to say -- I  mean, there is no way to say I am just going to go out  there and play well and that is going to mean I am  going to win, but we were bound and determine to do  whatever it took.  The goal was not to go back across  the road, so we finished it before we had to cross the  road.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT