THE SOLHEIM CUP
October 21, 1994
Brandie Burton
Dottie Mochrie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BRANDIE BURTON: I just want to start off by  saying that with our match today, Dottie and I both  played very steady golf out there.  We never missed the  fairway.  We missed 3 greens all day.  We were right  there. I think we were both pretty nervous.  I know I  was coming out of the gun.  Over the first putt, I  didn't feel like I could take the putter back, but I  think we got off to kind of a slow start as far as not  making some putts than we should have and just for the  fact maybe we were trying to force things to happen  instead of letting it happen.  I know that I am not  used to playing in a foursomes-type format and I think  I was a little worried about playing well for my  partner and not playing my game.  And I turned to  Dottie on the 12th tee and said, "let us go out and  play like we are playing in a regular tournament; just  play our own game" and I think we have shown we could  back that up.  From then on, we fired right at them  after 12 -- we birdied 12, good opportunity on 13;  birdied 14; Dottie almost holed it out from the fairway  on 15.  We were just slightly pumped at that point.  But I think Dottie and I mesh really well.  Had a great  time out there today and, you know, we were both  playing well and I think we are looking forward to  tomorrow.   
 
DOTTIE MOCHRIE:  I think, you know, the  biggest key today was realizing after 12 that we were  just trying to force the issue.  Our gameplan coming in  was to hit as many greens and fairway as possible  because you can make it from anywhere.  And just to  keep playing the offensive game.  We kind of -- yeah,  it seemed like we hit the greens; we hit the fairways  but weren't very offensive when we got the putter in  our hands.  And we finally started hitting it past the  pins; made a little more aggressive with the putter --  we missed putts; we knocked them a foot or two by, no  big deal.  That is the proper speed we make them at.  Then all of a sudden they started going in from every  where, so it was, I think, it definitely was the  realization we both needed to make.   
 

Q.  I asked Brandie this already, how much are  you thinking -- do you think about Dalmahoy?  How much  have you thought about Dalmahoy this week?  
 
DOTTIE MOCHRIE:  That is why I wanted to be  back here; and why I think we all came in better  prepared.  It was a pretty long ride back and you know,  it is a question I think we have all faced week in and  week out; if not day in; day out, and it is an issue  we'd like to come to rest.   
 

Q.  How did you come in better prepared; what do  you mean by that?  
 
DOTTIE MOCHRIE:  I didn't come in totally  exhausted like I went to Dalmahoy before.  I did have a  week off prior which I think helped a lot and, you  know, just decided that I was going to play this week;  next week; that was going to be it and if you can't  apply yourself in two, three weeks; then something is  wrong.   
 

Q.  Did you play in the British the week before  Dalmahoy or did you play in California?  
 
DOTTIE MOCHRIE:  I played the British.   
 

Q.  Were you fighting any frustration early, I  think Helen made a couple of saves on bunkers; you  missed a couple of opportunities on the front?  
 
DOTTIE MOCHRIE:  I think we fought outselves  pretty hard on the par fives; didn't really take  advantage right off the bat there. I kind of stabbed  shanked them six footer for birdie at two or three  rather.  And then we knocked it over the back of the  green and the following par 5 we were really in the  driver's seat and I think those two instances probably  hurt more than anything, but we had-- at the same time  we made a great save at 2 also.   
 

Q.  How close were you to the water there?  
 
DOTTIE MOCHRIE:  About 3 inches.  I was  inside the hazard.  Perfect.  Had a great lie.  I had a  stance which was only thing I was worried about.   
 

Q.  What do you think the difference will be  tomorrow in the change of formats; how will it affect  you?  
 
DOTTIE MOCHRIE:  Well, I think JoAnne had  said the same thing that tomorrow is our strongest if  not stronger suit and it will give all of us, I think,  we have a bunch of aggressive players on the team; I  think it will give everybody an opportunity to keep the  putter in the hands all day long; instead of every  other hole.  Get a little momentum going instead of  just playing every other shot and I think if you can  establish something early, definitely will be our  strength.   
 

Q.  Does the fact that you draw, I think, you  draw Laura and Alison in the first match; does that  make it especially so in establishing something early?  
 
DOTTIE MOCHRIE:  I think it is just important  that we go out and play well.  You can't control what  they do, but if we go out and play as well as we did  today, I think we can play just about anybody.   
 

Q.  Could you see the balls in the water there?  Did she a chance?  
 
BRANDIE BURTON:  It was submerged about a  good 5 inches.   
 

Q.  Were you surprised that they tried to  extricate it from that spot?  
 
BRANDIE BURTON:  I was a little surprised  just for the fact that if they go back and hit it from  where they should have hit it to begin with, they could  get it up and down for 5.  We definitely did not have  the easiest 2-putt in the world.  You don't know what  could happen in that kind of situation, so they had a  good chance of having the hole; getting it out of the  up-and-down.  I was a little surprised that they did  try that shot because that ball was -- there was no top  of the ball showing on that water.  That was -- I was a  little surprised that they did that.   
 

Q.  That was probably the effect of your three  birdies in the previous four holes?  
 
DOTTIE MOCHRIE:  We would like to think that,  of course.   
 

Q.  So that sort of. . .  
 
BRANDIE BURTON:  We had a 35, 40 footer down  the slope.   
 
DOTTIE MOCHRIE:  So we had nothing that was a  guaranteed 2-putt; that is for sure.   
 
BRANDIE BURTON:  That is gambling, I mean,  you got to win; you got to lose.   
 

Q.  If you had been in that position and you had  not reached the stage that you had felt that you had to  to gamble, you would have gambled from the dry land?  
 
DOTTIE MOCHRIE:  Don't know unless you are  there.   
 

Q.  What is the mood of the American team right  now?  What do you think the mood is going to be tonight  being down 3-2?  
 
DOTTIE MOCHRIE:  I think there was a real  good comment standing at 17 and she felt like if we  were down 3-2 after losing the middle and winning the  bookends, that we were, in effect, even, because it is  our weakest play.  Something we don't play.  And we  were just -- we feel-- like I said before, we have a  bunch of aggressive players that could make a lot of  birdies and tomorrow is game day.  It is when the whole  tournament really starts.   
 

Q.  At Dalmahoy before the match, everybody made  the noise it would be close and all the rest.  Did this  time -- did you really feel that it is likely to be  close because all those matches today were very much  like that, could have gone either way?  
 
BRANDIE BURTON:  There is so much talent out  there this week, it is going to be close all the way  down to the wire again.  I mean, you know, European  players have gotten strong this year and they are  starting to get a lot more depth than they have and we  have always had pretty much depth.  I think we have  probably the strongest team ever this time.  Not saying  nothing against the last teams that we have had, but I  think this is one of the strongest teams of the past  two.   
 

Q.  Dottie, did you think for a minute that that  5-iron shot was going in?  
 
DOTTIE MOCHRIE:  Yeah, I did.  I mean, I was  kind of in between clubs and had a tight lie and just  decided to take the lower one and because there was  nothing guarding it, if it bounceed forward, it was  perfect and it did.   
 
BRANDIE BURTON:  I liked the putt.   
 
DOTTIE MOCHRIE:  She likes that range, so...  She made me sweat over on the hole before, I thought I  would give her one that she could just go to the next  tee with.   
 

Q.  How did you make the decision on the color of  your hair?  
 
DOTTIE MOCHRIE:  I am very patriotic.   
 

Q.  It is not the same color as your trousers.  Does that mean you are blue tomorrow?  
 
DOTTIE MOCHRIE:  Sheehan has got the white  covered.  I have got the red.   
 

Q.  You are a bit young for the blue rinse for  tomorrow.  
 
DOTTIE MOCHRIE:  That is only Sarasotians I  live around all the time -- no.   
 

Q.  What made you decide to do it?  Did you just  wake up one morning and feel tired of it?  
 
DOTTIE MOCHRIE:  Actually there was a few  things that I was tired of having my hair very  unhealthy from the sun first and foremost; tired of  people asking me if I was Liselotte Neumann.  Secondly--the same thing happens to her "Dottie, could  you sign this autograph,"  and it is Lotte.  Third of  all, I was just ready for a change.   
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT