AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: RED SOX v YANKEES
October 13, 2004
Pedro Martinez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How did you feel about your outing? 

PEDRO MARTINEZ:   Well, I did whatever possible to actually keep my team in the fight.  I can't say I'm disappointed, but, you know, those are not the results I wanted.  Actually, I wanted to actually hopefully get a win and take our team over there with a positive attitude and actually  even in this series.  But it didn't happen, so we have to look forward to the next one.

Q.  Can you talk about the at-bat with Olerud.  You had two strikes on him; was that the pitch you wanted to throw to him?

PEDRO MARTINEZ:   Actually it was a fastball but I wanted it away.  The ball cut.  I didn't release it well.  And it he took full advantage of it.   I just have to give him credit and say it was my mistake. 

Q.  You had a couple of meetings early on in the mound and the first inning, talk about how the crowd affected you, the "who's is daddy" chant who that was really going and screaming your name, talk about that, please?

PEDRO MARTINEZ:   You know what, it actually made me feel really, really good.  (Laughter.) I don't know why you guys laugh, because I haven't even answered the question.  I actually realized that I was somebody important, because I caught the attention of 60,000 people, plus you guys, plus the whole world watching a guy that if you reverse the time back 15 years ago, I was sitting under a mango tree without 50 cents to actually pay for a bus.  And today, I was the center of attention of the whole City of New York.  I thank God for that, and you know what?  I don't regret one bit what they do out there.  I respect them, and I actually kind of like it because I don't like to brag about myself, I don't like to talk about myself, but they did make me feel important.  I've seen a lot of teams pass by and play against this team, the Yankees, and maybe because I'm with the Red Sox, but I feel so thankful that I got their attention and they got my attention. 

Q.  Obviously you pitched better the last time you faced the Yankees, but did you feel tired after the fifth inning? 

PEDRO MARTINEZ:   No, I did not feel tired.  I hit my pitch limit and they know that without knowing what's going to happen with Schill they are probably going to have to use me on short time and I'm willing to do that. So we're not really just trying to push it.   We are just trying to do what we can, keep us in the game, and see what happens. 

Q.  At this stage, how do you deal with the fact that no matter how well or poorly you pitch, your team never seems to win against the Yankees and have they already talked to you about short rest in place of Schilling? 

PEDRO MARTINEZ:   First of all, I can't do anything if we don't score runs.  I can only pitch, do whatever possible to keep my team in the game, and from there on, it's up to them.  Whenever I will get the support, I don't know, I'm not asking and I'm not going to ask that question.  At this stage, to answer the next question that you just asked me, at this stage I don't think there is a need for anybody to tell me whether I should pitch on short rest or not.  I just see the need in my team and if it's up to me, I will pitch on short rest to pick up Schill.  He's done it all year for us and if he has to go down, I'll stand up and I'll pitch on short rest and I'll go to the bullpen, I'll do anything to try to get a win. 

Q.  In a game like this, with a pitch limit, you had a pitch limit before you came in, did you find yourself thinking about your pitch count during the game under these circumstances? 

PEDRO MARTINEZ:   You know what, I was so excited about the game that I didn't.  I know that they all year were trying to drive me to that point, but the uncertainty I think about Schill probably pushed them a little bit more to actually not push me too far.  And I understand that, and you know, I just have to let it go.  I did whatever possible while I was out there, and if it didn't work, it didn't work.  You just have to tip your hat to Lieber for doing such a great job and the Yankees for actually supporting him and doing what they had to do.

Q.  The way you answered that question about the chant and the crowd, one of the most honest answers to a question I've ever heard an athlete give. 

PEDRO MARTINEZ:   Thank you very much. 

Q.  Thank you.  Did you think that for everything you've accomplished and the age that you are, did you grow through this experience, did you take yourself to a different place because of what happened, because you answered that question very emotionally?

PEDRO MARTINEZ:   I was really emotional because sometimes we just play the game, we get caught up in the routine and we don't realize what we really are and what we're doing.  For me to be standing out there in the biggest stage probably in the world at this moment, that's something that only God can answer.  I thank Him so much for that.  You know what, after all, even if tomorrow they are going to say, Pedro lost, Pedro won, I had an opportunity to show everybody that I believe in God.  The chanting about whether, "who's your daddy," my biggest Daddy is the one that put me out there and the one that brought me over from the mango tree to the biggest stage in the world at this moment. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT