AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: RED SOX v YANKEES
October 16, 1999
Pedro Martinez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. In the first inning what kind of stuff did you have, how did you have to feel your
way through that first inning?
 
 PEDRO MARTINEZ: Well, in the first inning I had exactly what I had the whole game,
nothing. (Laughter.) A whole bunch of grinders out there picking me up and just God making
me able to throw the ball because I didn't feel good at all. All I keep praying was that
the guys keep me up and guys score a bunch of runs and God will keep me healthy enough to
just throw the ball over and probably spot it, that was probably my best stuff today,
spotting the ball. I didn't have a fastball. I didn't feel like I had a good breaking
ball. Or good changeup at all. I just managed to spot well and I don't know, mix them in
there, see what happens. 
 
Q. How do you compare your stuff tonight with what you had Monday night in Cleveland?
 
 PEDRO MARTINEZ: You know what, in Cleveland, even though I know the reason why I felt
like I felt, I felt like I was better than today. Today I was aching. I felt it from the
get-go. I just keep praying to God that I was able to keep throwing without hurting
anymore or breaking anything, just, you know, feel the soreness in there and the pain and
some of the pitches, but just be able to do it again and again and I did it for seven
innings and it was good enough. My team picked me up big time. 
 
Q. How important of a momentum shift was it for you guys to get a little bit closer now
and to get this first win?
 
 PEDRO MARTINEZ: I have no doubts that we were going to completely shift from what
happened in New York to playing a game here. It is completely different. We feel more
confident here. We had more rest which I think was the key for them to win those games
over there. I guess the carry over from Cleveland and the travel the last two months catch
up to us over there in New York. We were a little bit fatigued. Now we had a day rest. We
are home. We are more confident. We know our field. This game brings a lot more confidence
and I think that was the key and I have no doubting moment that we were going to have a
shift. 
 
Q. It is interesting that you have a 12 strikeout, 3 hit performance and you say you
have nothing in there. A lot of pitchers would take that and say that was my best ever?
 
 PEDRO MARTINEZ: I am not saying I am out of it. I am not saying -- I am just telling
you exactly how I felt and I don't think that if you were the one hurting like I am
hurting you won't be pitching unless you have the heart like I do or you are me, you go
out there and pitch because I am hurting and I am not lying. I am going to do it again and
I am going to try to do it again and whatever I have, I am going to take out there and if
I tell you that, I mean that by fact. I don't think it is nearly as good as it could be.
Forget about these pitchers you see out there. I don't feel like I have my fastball like I
should, neither my changeup or my breaking ball. I am just telling you from my feelings. I
don't know what they look like. I haven't seen the pitches. So what I am telling you is
how I felt. 
 
Q. Because you didn't have your best stuff how did you approach the Yankee hitters
tonight?
 
 PEDRO MARTINEZ: Well, I approached them, you know, with respect. I know that everyone
of them is a really good hitter, very professional, so I had to pretty much just mix my
pitches and try to catch them guessing wrong and hit the spots. That was the key, hitting
the spot. When they were looking for changeup, I threw a little cutter in. When they were
looking for breaking ball, I was throwing a little sinker away. I bet you I didn't throw
98 miles an hour. My fastballs could be clocked at 97. Hardest I could probably throw
today was 89 and I haven't seen any of my pitches. 
 
Q. How did you feel coming out of the Cleveland game the last couple of days and do you
expect that this might be a setback physically for you going on now?
 
 PEDRO MARTINEZ: I thought I was going to feel better, but it wasn't really. It wasn't
really like I expected to feel. So I guess I have to work harder and keep digging in there
because I didn't feel better this time than did I in Cleveland. 
 
Q. When you came to the park you got out of the car, gave kind of a power fist to the
crowd. Did you feel that way? Did you know when you came that you weren't 100%? When you
came into the park you looked confident and you were kind of getting pumped up by the
crowd. Did you know then that you weren't 100%? 
 
 PEDRO MARTINEZ: I have known it from the first time I got hurt in Cleveland. I am not
going to get better just one day to the other. I strained my muscle back there and I have
a hard time to rest. I have a hard time to read it right. I am just out there with God in
front of me and my teammates. I mean, I am not hiding anything. I am hurting. I am hurting
in every pitch I throw, but, you know, I manage to do it somehow and I am not going to
quit on doing it until I know I am not getting anybody out. If the team needs me tomorrow
and I can give them one out, I am going to try to do it. It don't matter how much I hurt.
If I can throw the ball over, and get one out to get the team to win a game, I am going to
do it. That is what I am here for. 
 
Q. You threw a curveball to Chuck Knoblauch, he ducked, it looked as though you were
giggling on the mound; can you take us through that?
 
 PEDRO MARTINEZ: Breaking ball that I kind of flipped over. It was a slow one, a big one
and it looked high from the angle I delivered it, but it fall right in the middle and
Knoblauch was running away like it was a fastball up and in. I looked at the pitch. The
pitch was right down the middle. Might have been a little high or -- umpire did a great
job -- but it looked so good that it was funny that Knoblauch was running away (Laughter.)
Because it could have been called a strike too. It could have been either way, either a
ball or a strike, and nobody had to complain about it. And Knoblauch was running like it
was a fastball to his head. I started laughing, but it was just, you know, funny to see
his reaction to the pitch. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT