AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: RED SOX v YANKEES
October 15, 1999
Pedro Martinez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. In the final game in Cleveland you said that you really couldn't let loose all the
way. Will you be back all the way tomorrow?

PEDRO MARTINEZ: I don't really know. I am just going to go out there and try to get a
win. And I did whatever I could in Cleveland and we ended up winning, that was good
enough. So I am not afraid to compete with whatever I had in Cleveland against these guys
also because they are equally as good.

Q. Did you surprise yourself with how well you did in Cleveland, and considering the
circumstances and the uncertainty about your health going in; how would you rate that?

PEDRO MARTINEZ: I didn't surprise myself, but I was more impressed with the time I
stayed out there for. I stayed there for four innings and then I said, well, I feel a
little bit tight but I am going to keep going and see how long I last. Then all of a
sudden I was there for six innings and that impressed me more than anything else, but the
results, they could happen even throwing 75, 80, sometimes you get away with pitches and
sometimes you do the stuff you have to do. So the results do not impress me, but staying
out there after being hurt, especially so early, with just three days, having to come out
of the game, I think it was more impressive than the results.

Q. Whenever you talk about Clemens you always talk about how much you respect him:
Would you tell us when and how he earned that respect?

PEDRO MARTINEZ: When he put up the numbers he did. And it doesn't matter what he is as
a person; doesn't matter what he is off the field. In the field we all, all the players
have to have respect for a man like that, a man that puts up the numbers, it doesn't
matter what he does. He deserves respect. Probably if you want to talk about him as a
person I don't have anything to say about him. I mean, I am not really good friends with
him because I don't know him that well, but just to see the numbers that he put up out
there, I think he deserves respect, it doesn't matter where he is. As a baseball player I
recognize what he has done for baseball and for the game and all I can say is I have
respect for you because you did it somehow. It is legal the way he did it.

Q. Obviously enough at stake with the Championship Series here being down two games to
none. There is enough excitement just going about the Championship Series and pressure
with your team being down two games. We are sure you are aware how the baseball community
is viewing this matchup. Does it put any extra pressure on you?

PEDRO MARTINEZ: I can't help what is going on out there. I can only control what I do
with the ball on the mound. So I don't focus on those things. I let that happen out there.
I let the fans go crazy in the stands and I do my thing. I know I have spots to hit, I
have movement to make, where the ball is going, I have to -- that is my concern. I don't
really concern with anything out there. I can't help what is going on out there. I am not
going to change my game because there is more pressure or less pressure. My pressure is
just to get him out. That is what I understand the time I am out there, so I don't
remember about it.

Q. Do you feel -- do you approach it as you are pitching against Roger Clemens or just
the Yankees?

PEDRO MARTINEZ: I am pitching against the Yankees because Roger doesn't hit, so the
Yankees is the one that I have to beat. Roger is part of it.

Q. Physically how are you feeling? How is your back?

PEDRO MARTINEZ: Well it is not 100% yet. But after pitching in Cleveland, having seen
the result, I don't think I need my full strength to be a pitcher or to be able to beat
another team. I don't know if you guys realize it, but every pitcher you ask is going to
tell you that maybe three or four times maximum five times a year, you pitch 100% fine.
The rest you pitch with something, lacking something, feeling something in your shoulder,
your legs, somewhere, and after that you just pitch, you know, in those situations and I
am willing to deal with this and I am not going to bring up the fact that I hurt myself in
the other game because I pitched well enough in Cleveland, so this should be enough to be
out there unless something else happens.

Q. How would you compare yourself with Roger?

PEDRO MARTINEZ: I don't, not at all. I am Pedro. I don't compare myself to not even my
brother, who is my role model and somebody I really admire. I would say I am more similar
to Bret Saberhagen than Roger. I don't want to be compared to Roger. I don't want to be
compared to anybody. I created my own name and I hope you guys respect that.

Q. Do you think it is possible that there would be more pressure on Roger tomorrow
coming back here to a crowd that might be hostile and going up against the best pitcher in
baseball?

PEDRO MARTINEZ: I don't think so. I don't think so. I think Roger is very professional
and he has been through everything, so he should know how to handle the situation. Just
like I will, I am just going to go out there and pitch the game and I am sure he is going
to do that. I hope he puts a lot of pressure on himself and I hope he gives it up soon.
Roger is Roger and he has been through everything. He has been through war and he is a
great competitor and I am sure he knows how to handle the situation.

Q. The way you dominated the Yankees in September, was that as dominant as you have
ever felt maybe in a game and do you wonder if that stays in the minds of their hitters?

PEDRO MARTINEZ: I don't know if it does. I hope it does. It was a great game, yes, it
was especially against the Yankees. The numbers tell you that that is probably one of the
best games that anybody ever pitched in that stadium. But that is gone. I hope I can do it
now in the playoffs tomorrow. That is what counts and I don't really want to think about
it or expect whatever happened that day to happen tomorrow. So I am just going to have to
go out there and do it again or do a little less, but do it good enough to win a game for
my team.

Q. Everybody knows the physical toll that pitching takes on you over the course after
long season, but can you talk about the emotional toll that having so many people
depending on you every time you needed to go out and win takes on you?

PEDRO MARTINEZ: Well, I just lay myself in God's hands and let it happen. My body might
be beat, my arm might be beat, but my heart is out there and my mind and my love for the
game and respect for the fans, it is out there. Those things drive me and make me a little
bit stronger than probably, you know, whatever exercise I could do and whatever other
therapy I could get. So it is just getting my mind, my heart, and being willing to do it,
I guess, drives me more than anything to not only be healthy but to do the job that they
want me to do.

Q. You said you don't have anything to say about Roger as a person. Have you ever spent
time with him? Have you gotten to know him at all?

PEDRO MARTINEZ: Yeah, we all know each other and I spent a few hours with him last year
at the Players Choice Awards. I got to talk to him a little bit, and in baseball you see
him and you say: Hello, Hi, Roger, How are you doing? Pedro, how are you doing? And that
is it. You keep walking. As a person to get to know him to have dinner or talk to him for
more than two hours, you know, or something like that, no I don't. So I actually don't
know him. I just, you know, I just met him, that is how you want to call it.

Q. How confident are you that the Red Sox could come back and win this series,
especially considering what you guys did against Cleveland?

PEDRO MARTINEZ: We have done it all year. We were the underdogs. We were supposed to be
in last place. We ended up beating the Cleveland Indians in the Division Series and we are
here battling the Yankees. To explain that, that is all I have to say. We are here. We are
going to play tomorrow. Just like we did with Cleveland, if it happened with Cleveland one
of the most dominant teams, the team that everybody choose to beat the Yankees, Cleveland
is not here. It is going to be us, the one that are going to have to beat the Yankees. So
we are here and I am positive and I am 100% positive that we can do it. If we did it
against Cleveland, we could do it against anybody. It is not over tomorrow. Tomorrow is a
new game. We are starting the series, now we are starting at home.

Q. You have only been in town a short time, but do you think you have a sense of what
Roger's return means to the city and the fans? Can you describe what you think it means?

PEDRO MARTINEZ: I have a hint, but I am not going to explain it because it is none of
my business. Roger has to deal with it. I don't. I know they love me and they are going to
be out there clapping and whenever I get somebody in two strikes they are going to expect
me to strike him out and put up the K. So I don't really care. I don't really care what is
going on with Roger and the fans out there. I can't help that. I can only help what I do.
Like I said before I can only help what I do on the mound, off the field I go to my house
and I don't expect you guys to follow me or anybody because that is my business. Whatever
happens with Roger and the fans out there, it is his business. Let him deal with it.

Q. You talked about how confident you are that you can come back from this. If things
didn't work out for Boston tomorrow and you go down 3-0, how tough would that be to come
back --

PEDRO MARTINEZ: Believe me, when we won the first two games I wasn't in it. I wasn't in
it until the last game and the first one that I was in, we lost. As capable as I am of
beating any team, I believe my team is good to do it too. You guys got to start having
some respect for my teammates. They are good. They are really good and if you don't
believe it, you can analyze where you are right now and it wasn't just one single man. It
wasn't me with my 23 games, no. I did it because they were behind me and I think you guys
have to give them some credit.

Q. Did you sense anything extra with your teammates when you do take the mound? Any
extra intensity? You sit in the dugout, do you sense extra intensity when you are out on
the mound?

PEDRO MARTINEZ: No, I don't. The sense I have is the same I have everyday. I think they
try to do their job everyday and they work as hard as they can to win a game everyday; not
only for me, but for every other pitcher that stands out there. The reason that it seems
like they have more intensity is because this year I had the best year out of all our
pitchers. I gave them more chances to win. But apart from that, I think they have the same
drive and same intensity that they have everyday. They are all a bunch of grinders and
gamers out there. They have a lot of heart. That is something I can notice and when I am
not pitching I try to be out there as a groupie and start cheering them on.

Q. Your manager before described you as vibrant and charismatic. Is there a player that
in your past or around you that you took some of that from that you learned -- that you
saw someone being charismatic, vibrant and say, I am going to model myself after that
person?

PEDRO MARTINEZ: No. I am not even close to what my brother might be and like I said
before, he was my role model. I am just like that. I have always been like that since I
was a kid. I was the one that was always moving in the house. My family pretty much is
quiet overall. I am the only one that is always jumping and doing something and I am just
like that. I don't care who I am in baseball. I don't care who I am, you know, in salaries
or wherever, I am just Pedro and that is the way I am. It is not only in the field. It is
off the field. It is everywhere. I am like that and the things I do, they just come up to
my mind and I don't restrain myself from doing it if it is not anything wrong. I know
sometimes some people don't find it right until they prove me wrong, I am going to keep on
doing it because so far, to me, I mean, it is a lot of fun. So I am going to keep on doing
whatever I do.

Q. You talked about having Met Roger at the Players Choice Awards last year. Do you
remember what you talked about? Was it pitching or playing in Boston, do you remember what
your conversation was?

PEDRO MARTINEZ: Well, we pretty much said hello and we asked each other: How are you
feeling; how is everything going, but nothing really special. We talked about how grateful
it was to be with each other in the same, you know, type of awards. I don't know, the same
type of act that -- apart from that, no, we didn't exchange anything else. What does that
matter with the players right now? What is it that you want to know?

Q. I was curious what you talked about.

PEDRO MARTINEZ: God, you have some serious curiosity.

Q. I know we have only been in town for a few hours but any contact with fans or people
who obviously recognize you; have they given you any encouragement like: Go get them
tomorrow?

PEDRO MARTINEZ: To be honest I only woke up like an hour and a half ago. I ate and I
came over to the stadium to get my treatment and to get ready for tomorrow. So apart from
-- I had like a board written on top of my door from my neighbors where I live. They left
me a big board with something written and wishing me luck and good health for tomorrow and
the rest of the season. Apart from that, I haven't talked to anybody or anything like that
apart from my family.

PEDRO MARTINEZ: It was a pleasure, curious man, you.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT