AL DIVISION SERIES: RED SOX v INDIANS
October 5, 1999
Pedro Martinez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Okay. First question for Pedro Martinez. We talked about what the weather would be
like tomorrow night. It will be 39, cold, do you like that
 
 A. I don't mind. I've been through that and especially early in the season we normally
face cooler weather or whatever, and so far the results have been pretty good early in the
season. Last year I had the chance to pitch here in the playoffs one game. I don't
remember really how cold it was but I think it was about the same time as this year and I
did pretty good. So I'll take my chances no matter what the weather looks like.  
 
Q. This might be about the fifth time that you and Bartolo Colon have matched up
against each other and you seem to bring out the best in each other. Would you talk a
little bit about that? 
 
 A. That's the fun part. I mean, that's the way it's supposed to be. That's what the
fans deserve and they pay for. I'll just go out there like I go every day. I go out there
and I battle myself against the other team 100 percent and I'm sure Colon is doing that
and looks up to me and he respects me a lot. I tell him the same thing. Even though he is
not on my team I try to teach him, you know, the right things and tell him how to do it
because so far he's been good to me. So I would like him to learn the same way and he
seems to be doing it because he makes it tough for me every time I face him. I hate to
face him again and again and again every day, but if we have to, it's part of the game. So
we just have to go out there and do whatever we can to help our team and from there on
just leave it in God's hands.  
 
Q. Pedro, the Indians have talked a little bit about taking a different approach with
you, working the pitch count. Did you notice that and what do you do to counteract it? 
 
 A. I'm just going to try to adjust to them, whatever they do. I'll just go out there
and do what I know so far, what I have done to be successful against them. I'm going to go
out there and somehow I got to stay around the strike zone and somehow they have to swing.
Because the strike zone doesn't change and I have to be around there. So I'm just going to
go out there, do the best I can to hold them off. It don't matter what I do, I'll try to
adjust to what they do and just the way they are thinking about adjusting to me, I'll see
what they bring up to the table. If it doesn't work for them, it might be too late.  
 
Q. The Indians style is basically station to station play for the big inning. What if
they begin to run on you or change their style? Will that bother you any? 
 
 A. Why make it so complicated? So far the way I played against Cleveland, I don't need
anything else. I don't need to change right now. They're going to have to prove to me that
what they're going to do is going to work for them because I'm not going to change my
approach. I do what I do against every team and against Cleveland. I'm going to just go
out there and do what I know how to do, pitch, and if they want to run, they can go ahead
and run. I have the ball in my hands and if they want to run pretty much, it will make
things easier for me. If they want to hit and run, let them do their thing. Whatever is
possible in baseball they can do. I will get plenty of work in spring training and during
the season. 
 
Q. Pedro, this is the strongest the Indians lineup has been since the beginning of the
season. Do you consider their lineup the strongest in the American League that you've
faced? 
 
 A. I can't say that. Every one of them is strong. Every one is a big league team and
every one I consider as strong as they can be. So to me this year, the strongest team I
can probably think of would be the Florida Marlins. They got me for nine runs. So I'm not
going to put that in my mind. I'm just going to go out there, know that I am going to face
a good team just like every other. There is no difference between this team and whatever
other team you want to think of.  
 
Q. Would you talk a little bit about having your brother around this year and are you
surprised that the Dodgers gave up on him, considering what he is able to do? 
 
 A. Surprised I'm not. I'm a living example of the mistakes that the Dodgers have done.
I don't regret the Dodgers giving up on him because I had a chance to play with him again
and he's doing pretty good for us and the Dodgers are back at home and they're going to be
watching us on TV. You know, I'm not surprised that they gave up on him. He was something
to respect. This is business, and from the business point of view, they did what they had
to do to save money and, you know, in order to pay a guy, Kevin Brown all that money, you
might as well get rid of someone. I'm not surprised and I'm really happy to have him
around and I'm more relaxed and it makes my game a little bit better. It makes me more
relaxed than I would normally be.  
 
Q. Rightly or wrongly, the feeling may be that if you guys don't win Game 1, the
pressure is on you. Would you talk about your feelings? 
 
 A. Cleveland lost Game 1 last year and they went on to beat us in the next three games.
Why would I feel like that? Do we have handicaps pitching after me? The guys that are
pitching after me are as capable as I am. If you need a sign or something or proof, just
look at the record for what those guys have done before. So I wouldn't be too pressed, I
mean, about the way those guys are going to do it the next day because I know those guys
are as good or as better than I am.  
 
Q. Pedro, the Red Sox have done well against the Indians all season. Does that give you
a certain extra confidence now that you have done well against them as a team? 
 
 A. We have a little bit of confidence, you know, by knowing that we are able to beat
them. But you know what? Those games are already played, those days are gone. Those were
regular season games. This is the playoffs. So we're not going to put anything in our mind
but we know that we have to start over. This is a whole new attitude and a whole new
thing. There's no tomorrow on this one. So we're going to have to say forget about the
fact that we had them before, we have to have them right now.  
 
Q. Are you a better pitcher than you've ever been? 
 
 A. I can't answer that because if you're going to compare one pitcher to the other, at
this stage I would say I am because I'm wiser, because I understand more about the game.
But if you're going to compare seasons, I don't know if this season was better than the
'97 season and forget about the fact that I only won 17 games. My '97 season was as
dominant as any other season that you can think of and I don't know if this one is, you
know, at that level. So at this stage I consider myself wiser, more experienced. I guess
I'm more relaxed than I used to be. But I don't know if I'm a better pitcher or not
because season by season you can be better one season than the other.  
 
Q. Are you afraid that this is the game where you might lose your effectiveness and
they might jump all over you?
 
 A. I'm not afraid of that because of the way I pitched all year, no.  
 I'm not thinking about anything like that. I would like to help this team as much as
I've done this year and I hope that it's a good year overall, not only in the regular
season but in the playoffs also and make it an all around good season. I hope it keeps
going the way it has.            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT