MLB ALL-STAR GAME
July 13, 1999
Pedro Martinez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How much icing on the cake is this, Pedro?

PEDRO MARTINEZ: This is probably more than I expected and a lot of whip cream and sweet
in there.

Q. The individual achievements that you've had, the Cy Young Award; where does this fit
in?

PEDRO MARTINEZ: Right there. It's right there. I can tell you one thing, I wasn't
expecting this one to happen. I just wanted to go out there, be part of it and have fun
with it. I thought that by seeing Ted Williams come in and the crowd goes wild, see the
planes passing by after the anthem was something really big. But this is also part of it.
And this is one that hopefully we'll all enjoy, the fans and me.

Q. Pedro, to face six of the best hitters in the world and strike out five of them,
does that amaze even you that you did that?

PEDRO MARTINEZ: Not really, no. I think in baseball, that's what makes it so
interesting. In baseball you just never know what's going to happen. And those guys, those
are some of the best in the world, but anything could happen, that's what makes our game
so special.

Q. Pedro, how much more special is it to you being in Fenway Park and the last All-Star
Game of the century?

PEDRO MARTINEZ: That's a big word, the one you just said, the last game of the century.
It really means a lot, not only for myself, as an individual, but also for baseball, for
the fans, my people, everybody, the hometown. It's just something really good to happen to
me, especially in this one. This one I think has a little bit more taste than the previous
ones I've been in. And I'm glad that it went to my side. I just have to thank God for the
things that have come to me, especially not expecting it.

Q. You have a special relationship with Juan Marichal, how does it feel to be the
second Latino pitcher to win this award?

PEDRO MARTINEZ: Well, it feels great. It's like with the Cy Young, I thought I was the
second one to win the Cy Young, and too bad I got the trophy the first time, but I thought
Marichal was the first one to win it, actually. I'm just really proud to be right beside
his name and take a little trophy like this and also the recognition as the MVP in the
All-Star Game, I take it with a lot of pride. I'm really happy that that happened and that
my name can be sitting right beside his, because that's a name I really admire and
respect.

Q. Pedro, you're a guy who feeds off your own emotions, how much a springboard can this
night be with this award with your record for the second half of the season?

PEDRO MARTINEZ: I'm just going to get back tomorrow, do my running, do my weights, get
ready for the next one. I'm not really thinking about this. This is tonight, this is all
over, I'm just going to start tomorrow again. I mean I'm having fun with this. This is
really special, but after tomorrow it's all over. Everybody goes home and I have to go
back to work. I'm going to do that and hopefully I'll keep bringing good things to
baseball, and also to myself and the fans here in Boston. They really deserve it.

Q. When do you pitch again?

PEDRO MARTINEZ: I'll be pitching again I think it's the fourth game, which will be on
Sunday.

Q. What do you think the reaction at home will be and when will you start hearing from
folks?

PEDRO MARTINEZ: I think as soon as I get back to the clubhouse and pick up my phone
I'll have a lot of people calling. But the reaction, they really showed me out there. They
really showed me part of it. I'm sure that there's going to be probably half of them just
waiting for me to come out there. It's going to be a long night for me tonight.

Q. Pedro, you talked about how important this was, because it was the last game of the
century, last All-Star Game of the Century, can you speak a little bit about the
importance of the fact that you did it here in Boston?

PEDRO MARTINEZ: I think it makes it a little bit more special being here in Boston, and
having me as part of it, not only representing the team and representing the country, but
also representing the decade, the last one, being there with all those players, I don't
think anybody else is going to get to put them all together, having a chance, that
opportunity to see people that I never, never in my life dreamed of seeing, all together
at one time. It's probably even bigger than just participating in it. Not everybody gets a
chance. I feel really, really lucky. And here in Boston, nobody better to appreciate it
than these fans here. They really know what it's all about, and they really understand
their baseball and their tradition here.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT