MLB ALL-STAR GAME
July 13, 1999
Pedro Martinez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Do you know that you made history by striking out all four of the first batters?

PEDRO MARTINEZ: Yes, I was told in the dugout that I had been the first man to strike
out the first four players in an All-Star Game.

Q. Talk about your reactions in the first two innings, and just striking out five
batters?

PEDRO MARTINEZ: I'm really happy and excited to be the first to strike out all four to
start the game. And I hope that this is just one of many.

Q. Would you go over the sequence of pitches to Sosa and McGwire?

PEDRO MARTINEZ: I don't have too much to say, just fastball, change-up and curve ball.
I threw Sammy a couple of breaking balls. And I saw his reaction, and I noticed that he
didn't really react well to the breaking ball. I threw the first one, and repeated the
second one, and I think I threw a fastball or something like that, and then I went to the
change-up and went back to the fastball.

Q. Have you ever faced McGwire before?

PEDRO MARTINEZ: Yes, I have. I faced McGwire with St. Louis, not too many times, not as
many as I have with Sammy Sosa, but I did face him a couple of times.

Q. Before this game you talked about how special all this was for you, did the actual
event and the game live up to your expectations?

PEDRO MARTINEZ: Yes, it did. If I stayed there a little longer, you would have seen the
same thing on the walls by the fans, in that little streak that I had.

Q. Were you pumped up at all by what happened in the pregame ceremonies and the fan
reaction?

PEDRO MARTINEZ: Yes, I was at one point, I was really excited. But it wasn't really for
the fans reaction or anything like that, it was just to see so many glories of baseball
all together at one time. And people that I never really saw playing being out there, so
many names that I recognize by just names and numbers that they have out there, but it was
just great to see all those people out there, people that you dreamed of, and people that
you just saw in division, on video tapes, because they don't go there anymore.

Q. Would you just talk about the last couple of days, the games, the time leading up to
this and put it in perspective for your career?

PEDRO MARTINEZ: It's been great. Out of all the All-Star games that I've been, this is
probably the most exciting one I've been to. I didn't know that Boston was going to be so
much on top of the All-Star Game. I've been to a few of them, but what happened with
Boston? What's here? Does the people eat baseball and drink baseball? It's unbelievable, I
don't really have the words to explain how good it feels to just be part of it.

Q. Would you talk about your emotions when you saw Ted Williams sweep in from
centerfield and throw out the first pitch?

PEDRO MARTINEZ: Well, after the airplanes passed by (laughter), that was the second
time I thought that the stadium was going to go down. That was really amazing. And I
expected it, though. I expected it. It didn't take me by surprise to just see the people
out there, just roaring, trying to just step on the field and probably get a piece of him.
I don't think that there will be any other man that's going to replace that one.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT