NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: CARDINALS v BREWERS
October 14, 2011
Octavio Dotel
Matt Holliday
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







ST. LOUIS CARDINALS 7
  MILWAUKEE BREWERS 1

 Q. Octavio, what is your thinking when you come into a game in the situation that you came into tonight? 
 OCTAVIO DOTEL: Well, I wasn't really thinking that I was going to be in the game in that situation, because Jaime was throwing a really good game and the way he was throwing, and the way he -- we always check the count pitching, he got like 60-something pitches. So I never thought I'm going to be in that game. 
 But then when he got to Ryan Braun and two out and Braun coming up, it was kind of quick and that's when I started to realize that the game can be changing against Braun and lefty against righty. So I just put it in my mind at that moment and they gave me enough time to warm up and get ready for Braun.

 Q. You've had a lot of success against him, I think he's 2-for-10 now and you have eight strikeouts against him. Why do you have so much success and can you take me through that at-bat, what you were trying to accomplish?
 OCTAVIO DOTEL: Just lucky against him, that's what I can say. I try to make my pitches every time I see him, and every time I face him, I just want to make my pitches. I guess I'm lucky against him, and I would love to be the same lucky when the series is over. 

 Q. When you got that last strikeout, you came off the mound, what did you say? 
 OCTAVIO DOTEL: I mean, you know, I'm very excited because that's a great out, and it's a great guy that I just get him out. I'm really pumped up because, you know, I just got this guy out with two out and two men on base. You know, it's easy for him to hit a home run, if he do, it's going to be a tie game. That's why I was so excited myself, like I got him home; I got this guy out. 

 Q. Matt, batting fifth tonight in the order, do you feel like you're picking the ball up pretty well since your hand injury and all that? 
 MATT HOLLIDAY: Yeah, I feel pretty healthy, and saw the ball pretty well tonight.

 Q. When you were growing up, watching playoffs on TV or anything, do you remember any particular time where you saw that great pitcher versus great hitter matchup, and did you ever imagine that, envision yourself being in a situation like that?
 OCTAVIO DOTEL: Well, I did, I mean, but I was already in the Big Leagues. I saw one great moment, you know, when Pedro (Martinez) was facing the Yankees, I think it was in 2008, I think it was, and he gave it up that game and he kind of lost. I was putting myself like, well, I don't want to be in Pedro's situation at that moment because it's a tough situation. 

 Q. The Brewers seemed to over-shift their infield a bit against several guys. When you see it going on against Pujols, do you just kind of scratch your head and go, you know, what's the point? 
 MATT HOLLIDAY: Well, I'm sure they have stats. I'm sure they have spreadsheets. Everybody's got spread charts and all those things. They probably play the percentages. He probably hits a lot of balls up the middle. You know, if he hits a lot of balls up the middle as opposed to in the second base hole, they will take their chances. 
 I'm sure they have their reasons. It's a lot of teams, they move around Lance because he doesn't hit a lot of groundballs to the left side. They are just playing percentages. 

 Q. What did you see out of Greinke on the hill tonight? 
 MATT HOLLIDAY: He has a good running fastball and a good slider. He's tough. He's a good pitcher. We battled him, and you know, we got a couple breaks with some errors, you know, found some ways to put some runs on him and get a lead and hold onto it. 

 Q. Both of you guys, I can't imagine that you wanted to go back to Milwaukee down 3-2; right? So how important was this victory? 
 MATT HOLLIDAY: Well, I don't want to go back to Milwaukee at all. I would have liked to have won yesterday. But yeah, it was very important to me. It was a very important game for us, a must-win, I felt like a must-win going back to Milwaukee. 
 We need to win on Sunday. 
 OCTAVIO DOTEL: Same thing. Like he said, we don't want to go back there. They are pretty good over there in their house. Now that we have the lead, we are looking forward just to keep doing what we have been doing lately and give our hitters the opportunity to do what they have been doing lately. 
 I mean, it's hard to go over there, but I mean, we are going over there and we just are looking forward to winning a game. We have two chances pretty much, so we are just looking forward to try to get the first moment and the first time and try to have the best luck against them. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT