ROSE BOWL GAME: MICHIGAN STATE v STANFORD
December 27, 2013
Marcus Rush
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  MARCUS RUSH:   Amazing, crazy whole new world out here.

Q.   Where are you from?
MARCUS RUSH:   Cincinnati, Ohio.

Q.   How has the trip been so far?
MARCUS RUSH:   Amazing.   Unbelievable.   The weather out here.   Not used to this.   I was wearing sweats and sweatshirts.

Q.   Do you adjust now?
MARCUS RUSH:   The longs haven't adjusted yet.   But they will eventually.   But I mean it's amazing to be out here.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
MARCUS RUSH:   I mean, it's seven years of dreams coming true.   I mean, Coach D came in here, and he always talked about the Rose Bowl and threw up pictures.   Once I got here ‑‑ I wasn't here seven years ago, but that's what I heard. 
Once I got here, it was talked about, the Rose Bowl, and I was here with Kirk and all them and seeing those guys, really, I mean, they always talked about it and dreamed about it.   And the fact that we're here now is‑‑ I mean, it's not even reality.   It's still‑‑ I don't even know when I'm really going to hit reality, because I mean, it's so many dreams that we talked about and now we're here, it's ridiculous. 

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
MARCUS RUSH:   From other players? 

Q.   Not from Michigan State, from other teams that have been here on more frequentvisits. 
MARCUS RUSH:   No, I haven't heard that yet.   I mean, if I heard that, that means they didn't like the Rose Bowl. 
But, no, I haven't‑‑ if I did, I'd probably be pretty jealous.

Q.   (Indiscernible) you guys on the defense and on offense, how do you see the impact of the passing game?
MARCUS RUSH:   I don't see as much passing, it's more power‑‑ they definitely try to define the run game.   And they just pound it down your throats, try to get a run game going on you. 
If that's not working, the whole situation, they'll start passing.   I haven't watched too much passing because their game is all about running.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
MARCUS RUSH:   Yeah.   The jumbo package.   It's not even tight ends, it's a bunch of O linemen.

Q.   Have you guys seen that at all?
MARCUS RUSH:   We've seen it a couple times.   We've even seen it in our own team.   We've created packages like that. 
We had a couple of guys that are 320, 360, coming in just for that same reason, just trying to get the extra yardage.   But‑‑

Q.   In practice, you've seen that much‑‑
MARCUS RUSH:   Yeah, our own team does.

Q.   How was (indiscernible)?
MARCUS RUSH:   Yeah, I mean, he runs like a Big Ten running back.   He's a tough guy.   He makes sure he gets that extra yardage. 
He's a hard runner.   There's never a time that he takes it down ever.   So we like that, though.   It's just another challenge for us. 

Q.   (Indiscernible) at that point, if you look back now (indiscernible), at the time what do you remember about meeting them after that?
MARCUS RUSH:   It felt like two years ago.   But I mean, I think we're just still trying to find our foundation, really. 
We had excuses, excuses, but we're still trying to find our offense.   And really our entire team came together I think after that game. 
I mean, we knew they were a good team, and we knew we were a good team.   And we just obviously lost.   And once we realized that like we didn't lose that bad and we had an amazing defense, an offense that comes together, we knew what we had coming for us in the future. 

Q.   How was practice?
MARCUS RUSH:   Practice?   I was tired.   I got food poisoning here when I first got here.   Couple guys did.   From Yardhouse. 
Yeah, we‑‑ I'm from Cincinnati.   The team didn't come in until like eight.   So I got here at 12.   I was able to have free time. 
So I was sick all during the day and then nighttime I was just‑‑ I had the chills and everything.   And the next morning I woke up fine.   So I knew. 
I feel good now.   Went to Disneyland, the whole team went there.   It was a good experience. 

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
MARCUS RUSH:   Yeah, we did.   We rode the (indiscernible) and the outdoors, the biggest ones outside. 

Q.   Just looking at the different defensive coaches, explain their personalities, are they all fiery?   Do any of them every calm anybody down?
MARCUS RUSH:   They're all on the same page that's for sure.   They're up in meeting rooms, all talking, making sure that everything's right.   Coach Duzzi makes sure that all the coaches understand what he's saying. 
It's a huge‑‑ they're all making sure that we're ready for the game.   And it's definitely something that they do.

Q.   Coach Burton is a little different, what's different? 
MARCUS RUSH:   He's got his own lingo.   He talks‑‑ he's got a whole new language.   I think it's funny because as a "D" line we understand what he's talking about, outside of that.

Q.   Tell me‑‑
MARCUS RUSH:   What does he say?   "The rest of the story."   He throws out so many things.   I mean, it's just his own language.   "We we" as in us, not I.   There's no I in it.   It's the entire defensive ends and tackles, not just one individual. 
If I'm talking about myself, he's going to say "We, we." 

Q.   You mentioned the National Championship dream.   Is this something, the next thing for this program?
MARCUS RUSH:   I think so.

Q.   Do you think about it?
MARCUS RUSH:   I think next year, coming in, after this game, hopefully with a win, I think that's going to be something that we look‑‑ it's hard, though.   I mean, there's no guarantee that we're going to go, even if we are 12‑0, whatever it is. 
I mean, Rose Bowl is the reason we're here, is because we won the Big Ten championship.   There's no guarantee that we're going to the National Championship if we win the Big Ten.   If we beat Notre Dame, it would be a different story. 
But, I mean, it's obviously a goal for every one of us, next year and the years coming, because this program has definitely changed from a program just trying to get the Bowl game, to going to a Bowl game, to going to the Rose Bowl, to probably going to the National Championship.

Q.   (Indiscernible)? 
MARCUS RUSH:   What was it, the Beef Bowl?   That sounds like a ‑‑

Q.   It's a tradition, and prime rib. 
MARCUS RUSH:   Oh.   There was a game we went to (indiscernible) Texas‑‑ or Texas or something like that, and they bring around different types of meat.

Q.   They have all the meat on the skewer.   Upside down, a lot more, that works. 
MARCUS RUSH:   Unbelievable.

Q.   Are you excited about the game?
MARCUS RUSH:   Yes.

Q.   It's going to be great. 
MARCUS RUSH:   I didn't‑‑ we haven't even seen the stadium yet.

Q.   You've not seen the Bowl yet?
MARCUS RUSH:   No.   All we've seen is pictures.   Coach D always throws up pictures of the stadium.   We haven't even been there yet.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
MARCUS RUSH:   Yeah.

Q.   It will be packed?
MARCUS RUSH:   It better be.

Q.   More than packed.   Ohio State?
MARCUS RUSH:   Good.   Glad to hear it.

Q.   The locker rooms are all redone, finished three years ago to NFL standards. 
MARCUS RUSH:   Awesome.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
MARCUS RUSH:   Really?   What's the range?   I couldn't tell you what that is. 

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
MARCUS RUSH:   Yeah.   When you're here it's a great vacation.   You don't even want to know the day. 

Q.   Go back home. 
MARCUS RUSH:   Make snowmen.

Q.   That's not for me. 
MARCUS RUSH:   We were just talking about that.   She's from Minnesota.   She knows.

Q.   Are you a senior or junior?
MARCUS RUSH:   Junior. 

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
MARCUS RUSH:   I don't know.   It's crazy.   I was just here as a freshman.   I remember.   Crazy.   







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT