PENN STATE UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 2, 2014
Sam Ficken
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 Q.   What do you think of the term "wefence" to label special teams?   
SAM FICKEN:   Wefense?   That's news to me.   I've heard next teams (ph) a lot but wefense is new to me.   
   
 Q.   Do you get a plaque or is there anything you get physically for that?  
SAM FICKEN:   I think in the mail at some point I'll receive a certificate.   I think I've gotten one of those, one or two of those.   
   
 Q.   You mentioned you chunked a kick a little bit.   The grass is a little bit longer than the one you're used to kicking; does that play a factor?  
SAM FICKEN:   No, not really.   Obviously hit the ball clean no matter what surface it's going to be that you're going to kick.   I did chop it a little bit.   Unfortunately it did not really affect the kick's direction, and it went through and that's what matters.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about your relationship with those guys?   I know you said you've talked to Herb before.   
SAM FICKEN:   Yeah, so to be honest with you, in my three years playing here, I've never had any issues with the surface.   And I've played in some games where the weather has been pretty crappy.   I think Kent State, it poured the whole game, and that was when I hit my longest field goal.   
Really I think they do a great job of maintaining the field.   They cut the grass pretty low, which is how I like it.   So they do a really good job with it at what they do and I've never had an issue with it here.   
   
 Q.   A few days removed from having the game‑winning field goal, have you gone back and looked at the video and the celebration after?   
SAM FICKEN:   Yeah, definitely.   On the plane actually, we all got digital cutups of the game, and I went through every single kick, kickoff, extra-point field goals, so I did take a look.   Obviously was happy with the outcome.   Wasn't a perfect kick, but it went through, and like I said, that's the most important thing.   
   
 Q.   Also a pretty good tackle, and you've made a few; did you have any history‑‑  
SAM FICKEN:   I did not, but I did play other sports.   I feel that I do have athleticism.   I don't always like to be making tackles to be honest with you.   I think the kickoff team if it's getting to me might not be a good thing.   
But at the same time a few of my kicks were not great on kickoff and that's something I'm focusing on this week and I need to improve there and that's something that we'll look at this week.  
   
 Q.   Also after a kick like that, do you hear from former kickers and people who have mentored, and you do you have any communication with Bill O'Brien?   
SAM FICKEN:   I have not heard from Coach O'Brien.   Obviously pretty removed from that situation.   I have heard from Robby Gold (ph), Craig Saeck, Brett Conway, Matt (ph), all those guys sent me a quick e‑mail saying congratulations.   When I was struggling, they were in touch with me, so obviously great to hear from them.   Robby sent me a text message directly after the game.   He's been so instrumental in my success, so it was good to hear from him, as well.   
   
 Q.   What is going to be the key to consistency throughout the season?  
SAM FICKEN:   You know, week‑by‑week, you've got to look at film and what you did well and what you didn't do well.   Like I said, I was kind of unhappy with my kick‑offs, but at the same time, it's something that I can focus on this week.   We are focused on getting better every week.   My mind‑set is to go out every week and be perfect.   And you've got to do that one week at a time.   So I'm looking forward to this week's practice and looking forward to get better.   
   
 Q.   You've always had an adverse relationship with media over the years; do you get a kick out of the fact that some of these people that gave you a hard time are now the same people that are like, oh, he's the greatest kicker?   
SAM FICKEN:   To be honest I don't look too much into it.   Obviously when you succeed, people are going to jump on your back and love you and when you struggle, people are going to let you know.   So that's the reality of sports, of social media and what it's come to today.   You can't focus on the highs and lows.   I've said that multiple times.   You've just got to keep focusing on what you're doing and in my aspect, it's fundamentals and just trying to get better every week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT