SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 24, 2012
Gene Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Not bad, is it?  
GENE JONES:   Not bad at all.   We started off, I was playing with some people I know, which made it a little bit easier.   But from the first hole on it was a brutal all day, to be quite honest with you.   
Being from Florida, I play in a lot of wind, but this, especially playing in these little tiny greens, it was pretty hard.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about your string in the middle of your round there where you made three‑‑ back‑to‑back birdies at 7 and 8.  
GENE JONES:   I got nothing but smiles about that, man.   I knew it was a tough pin, I only had gap wedge in and with the wind howling the way it is, you hit that shot and I hit a little left of the pin, everything feeds into the right.   I hit it perfect.   And I hear everybody clapping and yelling and I'm like, okay, it must be good.   So you don't know until you get there.   
I had a 4‑footer up the hill, hit it perfect and I hit a good putt and made it and probably gained a shot on everybody.  
   
 Q.   I saw you didn't compete last year, you just got back to it this year.   
GENE JONES:   That's a touchy question.   Well, I tried to compete.   I lost my card.   I had some kidney stone issues the year before, was doing really well out here and, to be honest with you, I had kidney stones in both kidneys the third year out here.   
And I tried to qualify for 12 tournaments, shot in the 60s in probably 10 or 11 of them and lost in four or five playoffs and I just didn't get in any tournaments, quite frankly.   
And I finally got in two weeks ago and played in Houston and got lucky a little bit and shot 67 and got in and then took advantage of it and did top‑10 in the tournament.   So I been playing really good.   So, no, I didn't play here last year.  
   
 Q.   You're playing well going into tomorrow, what are your impressions of the course as a whole and what are your expectations for tomorrow?  
GENE JONES:   Well, quite frankly, I guess a golfer would look at it and say we played a pretty tough golf course today, so I don't believe it can get any tougher for me.   
I feel like if I could shoot a decent round today and I was playing pretty well that tomorrow I don't think it could be as tough as it was today, no matter where they put the pins.   
It's just, we just had a good group, we flowed good.   And that was really important.   I think both those guys shot a couple under too.   So, yeah, I think I'm looking forward to playing.   I feel like I just ‑‑ I just like the course of the it's demanding, greens are tight, and my putter is hot.  
   
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT