THORNBERRY CREEK LPGA CLASSIC
July 5, 2018
Jennifer Song
Mariah Stackhouse
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  6-under par round today.  
MARIAH STACKHOUSE: Uh-huh.   
 Q.  How nice is it to get off to a good start?  
MARIAH STACKHOUSE: It's a lot of fun.  You know, honestly, whenever I get prepared morning, afternoon my biggest thing it's kind of important when you're in that wave to get off to a good start because you just never know what the greens are going to be like if the afternoon.   
I like to put myself in a position where Friday afternoon I've already got myself off to a good start, there is some momentum, and I just want to keep that going, versus having something to fight for on the afternoon greens.   
So that was a focus for the day, and mission accomplished.   
 Q.  Check.  
MARIAH STACKHOUSE: Yeah.   
 Q.  What do you like about this golf course?  This was your best finish last year on tour.  
MARIAH STACKHOUSE: Yeah, it was.  I think what I like is the greens are really true.  So whenever -- last year around this time I was stroking it really well; same thing right now.  So that makes putting a lot of fun.   
In addition to that, I think the greens are pretty receptive.  Last year I had a lot of -- I had the week off before that, so put in a lot of iron work.  And then coming here hitting my irons well because the greens are receptive, you just a lot have birdie opportunities if you're sticking it.   
So keeping that in mind and knowing I was coming back this week, I put a lot of work in again on my irons the last couple weeks because I know this course is -- hi, Bud.  Yeah, yeah, I had a good round.   
Where was I?  Yeah, just putting in the iron work.  So that's pretty much what I like about this course.  You have a couple par-4where you are coming in with some wedges, and there is a couple holes you have to play really smart.  Like let's say 1 -- I'm going to go all out of order here:  1, 16, 17, and there is another hole.  There are like four holes you got to be kind of smart, and then the rest of it, if you hit a good tee shot you can be pretty aggressive.   
So it's a fun golf course.  You know, it's rewarding you if you're taking away the penalizing holes and capitalizing on the go-for-it holes.   
 Q.  Yeah.  Last year the winning score was 22-under par.  Do you like a golf course where you really feel like you have to birdie every hole?  
MARIAH STACKHOUSE: Yeah.  I mean, there are some courses you can be aggressive and some where you can't.  I think that's -- aggressive courses are only fun if you're striking the ball well because you're just watching everybody have a birdiefest.   
If you're not striking it well, it's a bit frustrating.  If you're feeling good about it I think it's like, Okay, this is going to be battle of the birdies basically.  Makes you just want to go get it.   
 Q.  Do you feel like your game is really coming along?  You've had a couple really nice finishes this year?  Do you feel like you're getting close?  
MARIAH STACKHOUSE: Yeah, yeah, yeah, no, absolutely.  I think I'm getting tighter and tighter.  I'm learning a lot better how to minimize error on the golf course, which is huge.   
I think last year I actually had rounds where I would have like six or seven birdies, but I would be like 1- or 2-under par because everything else was going wrong.   
So I think taking way those errors this year has proving huge for just my scoring consistency.  And then as a result of that, I'm in better positions.  Yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT