THE SOLHEIM CUP
September 19, 1998
Catrin Nilsmark
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Played well all week, actually.  Today, I made a few putts in the back nine and it got me smiling again.


Q.  How about your game today?  You were long and straight and some great shots?

CATRIN NILSMARK:  I'm happy.  I had some good putts today.  Just pretty pleased with the game.


Q.  Do you feel that between the morning and this afternoon, maybe you guys are starting to come back like Laura Davies talked about yesterday?

CATRIN NILSMARK:  I think so.  I have said that.  We're all sure that we played pretty well and things have not just gone our way yesterday and this morning.  It's really come along.


Q.  Annika, you've got to be a little tired after yesterday and today.  I wonder, how about the physical?  This is a physically demanding golf course, plus it's a mentally demanding tournament?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, you're right.  I feel real tired.  But we want to do the best for the team. I get so pumped up.  I feel tired, but I'm hitting the ball further and I'm mentally stronger than ever, so I guess it's had a nice effect on me.


Q.  Continued success.  Thank you.  Did you guys have a number in mind when you started the afternoon matches about how close you thought you needed to be, like a bare minimum?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  No.  All we're trying to do is win every hole.  Just get out the ball and just fight from the 1st hole through the 18th and do the best we can.


Q.  What about singles tomorrow?  How does that stack up?  How do you feel -- you said you feel stronger than ever, but...

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I don't know.  I haven't given much thought about singles.  I don't know about Catrin, but, you know, I'm very pleased that we got a point.  Turning it around from this morning, just  couldn't get it together.  Now we're finally making some birdies the last few holes and I feel really, really good and hopefully I can go back and get the energy from my other teammates.


Q.  Did it seem like it was maybe the opposite of what you've had most of the week where your birdie putts finally were going and theirs -- they couldn't really make anything?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Maybe.  But I think that's been the opposite on the last day.  So I think things are about to change.


Q.  Do you guys feel like it's a do or die afternoon?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Every match is one point and I think every point is crucial and, yes, we decided today that we're not going to relax, we're going to charge into the last day.


Q.  (Inaudible).

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  (Inaudible.) -- Had a straight shot into the pin and then I popped it in.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT