THE SOLHEIM CUP
October 21, 1994
Catrin Nilsmark
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
CATRIN NILSMARK:  Okay.  On the second hole we got one  down.  I hit a bad tee shot and struggled a bit up to  the green and then we lost -- we played even for a  couple of holes.   
 
CATRIN NILSMARK:  Yeah, and they birdied, so that was  good; got one good putt out of the way.  And the next  one we lost was number 6.  Annika hit a really good  second shot and I hit a downhill, very quick putt, so I  passed it by quite a few yards.  And they made the  par.  So we were two down, but we felt really  comfortable.  We were calm and felt that we were  playing well though.  And then we were two down up 'til  number 9 and Annika hit a good -- no, we made a par and  they made a bogey.  And number 11, Annika hit a really  good shot on the par 3 and we made another par and they  had a difficult downhill chip, so they made a bogey.  And then we had a good match up 'til we had -- up 'til  number 16 we -- no -- you continue.   
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, we made pars all the way  through 16 after number 11 and then I hit a 9-iron and  Catrin held the putt for birdie and made it slip away  so we were one up after 16.   
 

Q.  About 12 feet?  I think it was maybe 9.  
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Number 17 I hit an 8-iron and Catrin  held a putt for birdie and we tied for birdie and going  onto 18 we were tied for par.  Comments about our  match, it was overall, I think, it was a really good  match.  Catrin and I started out a little bit shaky; we  kept in there; we had a turning point after 11, so we  were all square.  After that we said, hey, we are going  to get them all.  It was nice to get a finish like we  did.   
 

Q.  Talk about those 3 putts, Catrin, how  difficult they were and pressure you felt?  
 
CATRIN NILSMARK:  Yeah, well, we have had some really  good putts before that and well, quite a few of them  were by Annika, but they all slipped passed very  closely, so I really felt all the time that we would  get some in in the end and I like right-to-left putts  and 16 waws, 17 was and 18 was, so they were shaky,  but -- yeah, I felt comfortable with all of them.  I  felt -- I really felt that we had to make a few putts  in the end because we had played so well and we were  bound to make a few birdies.   
 

Q.  More comfortable than you were at Dalmahoy?  
 
CATRIN NILSMARK:  They were so much longer, so, I mean, of  course I didn't feel that comfortable, but yeah it was   -- I was more nervous last time.   
 

Q.  Were you scoreboard watching; seeing what was  happening in the other games?  
 
CATRIN NILSMARK:  Yeah, I can.  Did you?   
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I was aware where the other teams  were but I really wasn't paying attention.  I thought  the match that we played was as important as their  matches.   
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT