THE SOLHEIM CUP
September 10, 2005
Catrin Nilsmark
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
Okay.  All right.  Catrin, another good day today.  Europe tied 8 8 points a piece.  Can you run down the players for singles tomorrow.
CATRIN NILSMARK:  Okay, first match, Sophie Gustafson against Juli Inkster.  Second match, Laura Davies against Paula Creamer.  Third match, Trish Johnson against Pat Hurst.  Fourth, Iben against Laura Diaz.  Fifth, Ludivine Kreutz against Christina Kim.  Sixth, Annika against Beth Daniel.  Seventh, Maria Hjorth against Natalie Gulbis.  Eighth, Catriona Matthew against Wendy Ward.  Nine, Carin Koch against Michelle Redman.  Ten, Karen Stupples against Cristie Kerr.  Eleventh, Gwladys Nocera against Meg Mallon.  Last match is Suzann Pettersen against Rosie Jones.
Q.  Shall we take some questions.

Any questions?  Catrin, can I ask how you feel this evening?  Do you feel optimistic, slightly disappointed that you're not still ahead?
CATRIN NILSMARK:  No, no, I feel very happy.  We    I think we just made a good comeback in the afternoon.  It looked a little bad up there early on today, but a few matches we got a halve that was extremely well fought out.  I'm very content.
Q.  Any thoughts on the pairings?
CATRIN NILSMARK:  Pairings, I just saw them, I think they look fine.  No surprises really.  We thought Inkster would be up first, a couple of experienced players at the very end.

No, I think it looks good.
Q.  Any concern, Catrin, about how the three rookies will do tomorrow, having just one match under their belt?
CATRIN NILSMARK:  I don't know.  I just think they're so ready.  I think they played pretty good today in the foursome.  You know, a couple of times they hit shots, like Gwladys hit a shot on number 13 that she almost holed out and the Americans made a birdie putt.  It actually happened twice, I think.  I think they really played well, and they were both very disappointed, so I think they're ready to go.  I think    no, I'm not too concerned.  I would like for them to do well.
Q.  Are you sure you guys didn't plan game number 4 as the turning match?
CATRIN NILSMARK:  True, we planned number 4, because Iben has played number four twice before and she's won both times.
Q.  Can we confirm, some people are telling us it's one baby she's having, and other people say she's expecting twins.
CATRIN NILSMARK:  Who?
Q.  Iben.
CATRIN NILSMARK:  I think it's just one.  She thinks she's a little fat herself but I think it's just one.
Q.  What did you say to the two French girls before they played this morning?
CATRIN NILSMARK:  I just said, "I really think you can win.  It's not like I saved you because I have to play you at some stage, and go out and have fun.  It wasn't anything like that."  I said, "Go out and play hard," and speaking French all the way around, and they did.  They were very ready and I think, like I said, I really think they did well.
Q.  The Americans, obviously, have a history doing well in singles.  What do you tell your girls tonight?  Do you use that as a motivator?
CATRIN NILSMARK:  No, no, because I think we have a fantastic team.  I think we might have the best team ever, and we all know that we're going to have to win over here at some stage, and I think this is a great opportunity because they're all playing really well and we have nothing to lose.
Q.  Just a short comment, Catrin, why Suzann in the last pairing?
CATRIN NILSMARK:  Oh, because she just loves the pressure in the end.  I mean, the way she just holed that shot on 16 is unbelievable.  She picks up her game when things get really tough, and she did in Barseback and she's doing it this week, and she wants to go out last.  She loves the pressure.
Q.  The last time you front loaded the team in singles.  What's different this time?
CATRIN NILSMARK:  Actually, it's a little bit the same, I think.  We were    I think we have some good matches out really early, and then, you know, it's pretty even.  I think I have the same strategy, more or less, as last time.  We had to get five points last time in Barseback to win The Cup and we have to get six this time to retain it, six and a half to win, so the strategy is pretty much the same.
Q.  All done?  Did you have a question?  When you read off your lineup, did you not tell us Stupples was 10?
CATRIN NILSMARK:  Yes.
Q.  This sheet says she's 11.
CATRIN NILSMARK:  Does the sheet say 11?  I have two little arrows there.  She would be 11th.  That's right.  This is my scribble, so it's a bit messy , but, yeah, 11th, sorry.
Q.  I don't want to have to show up twice.

Okay.  Everybody done?  Okay.  Great.  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT