JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 14, 2006
Todd Hamilton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  You've been saying all week you've been hitting the ball well, maybe not scoring as well.  Do you still feel that now?
TODD HAMILTON:  Yeah, I didn't hit it as well today as I did yesterday.  And it shows, I didn't shoot as good as yesterday.  I got off to a good start.  I think I was a couple under after about seven holes and let a couple slip, hit some bad wedge shots.  The shots are good, they're just not going in the right direction.  I've hitting them solidly, just not lined up right, I guess.

I just need to iron that out, keep driving it the way I'm driving it.  I like the way I'm driving it and try to make a few more putts just like everyone else.
Q.  At the Western you said you didn't feel like you were playing real well.  Are you playing better now than you were before that obviously?
TODD HAMILTON:  Compared to the Western?
Q.  Yeah.
TODD HAMILTON:  I think so.  I think this golf course is playing a lot easier than the Western.  The length, length wise may be a little bit longer.  I think it's a lot tougher golf course.  The rough is tougher, the fairways are more narrow.  These, I don't know who pays the watering bill out there at this course, but they'd better have a lot of cash because it's watered down pretty good.  Although it's not a real long golf course, it's playing longer than it actually should.
Q.  It looked like the hometown contingent is here.  Do you feel good about that?
TODD HAMILTON:  Yeah, I would have liked to have shaved a couple strokes off yesterday and today's round to make the weekend a little bit easier to try to catch up, but it just seems like it comes down to having that one hot round.  Zach had it yesterday.  He actually had a hot half of a round.  J.P. Hayes shot good yesterday, Chopra.  It seems like it just comes down to that one 6 , 7 , 8 under and then your other three rounds need to be 2 , 3 , 4 under.  I've got the 2  and 3 under covered, I just need that hot round.  Hopefully it will come on the weekend.
Q.  Putting yourself in position on your way to make a run on Saturday or Sunday, you've got to be happy that you're in a spot where you can do that.
TODD HAMILTON:  Heck, I'm happy I made the cut.  I haven't made so many cuts this year.  I think this is like my fourth cut.  I don't feel like I've been playing terribly.  There's a very fine line, especially on this Tour, fine line between the guys that win and the guys that finish 10th, and there's a fine line between the guys that just miss the cut and make the cut and finish 30th or 40th, and I feel like I've been on the wrong side of that fine line the whole year.
Q.  You're a Midwest guy that actually plays better overseas, the Japanese Tour and the British Open?
TODD HAMILTON:  I don't know why that worked out.  I've always been kind of a loner, I guess, when it comes to golf.  I've always enjoyed going out and playing golf by myself, and I think the time I spent in Japan, traveling by myself, not having very many people, if any people, root for me, kind of toughened me up a little bit.  I like to think I'm not too bad in a hostile environment.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT