FORD CHAMPIONSHIP AT DORAL
March 5, 2004
Todd Hamilton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TODD HAMILTON:  I was pretty pleased with the way I played today, obviously.  I'm from Dallas so I am used to playing in the wind.  This time of year, especially, it is very windy.

The round, I had a lot of good shots.  I had not been putting that well up until this tournament, but I made some good putts yesterday and got a little confidence.  I let one get away on the last hole.  Made a couple of good putts, I thought.  Kind of tough to read them, shadows going over the green.  I have not played this course until this week, so a little behind the 8 ball.  But overall, could not be more happy.
Q.  Conditions different from yesterday to today?
TODD HAMILTON: I think yesterday overall, it was a little more windy toward the end of the day.  The wind kind of died down, especially on the last couple of holes.  Still hot, still sweating.  Just got to hit a lot of good shots and make some good putts.

Tomorrow the wind is supposed to die down but the weatherman could be 100% off.  I expect the wind to blow a little bit and it is supposed to be hot again.
Q.  Did you know you could have gone 1 up on Retief by making that birdie?
TODD HAMILTON:  I happened to notice that.  Still got two more rounds to go.  If I made the putt, great, if not, great, or not so great, but still you are only one shot back.  I feel comfortable with my game.  Just have to get off to a good start to keep the momentum going.  Would be nice to be leading but maybe next time.
Q.  Assess our game overall?
TODD HAMILTON:  Today I hit the ball well.  Yesterday I hit the ball well.  Like I said, I don't like playing in the wind but I don't mind    hit a lot of good shots.  If I didn't have a tee shot in the fairway to a tough pin, and I was in the rough, I would just play to the middle of the green and take my par.  Hit a lot of good shots.  Just have to capitalize on them when you do.
Q.  Are you comfortable going into the weekend?
TODD HAMILTON:  Had I not played well and scored well, it would be a little bit different.  I have a little bit of confidence by getting off to a good start each day, I think.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT