VOLVO GOLF CHAMPIONS
January 29, 2011
Todd Hamilton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. I take it that is a very satisfying day?
 TODD HAMILTON: I think it was the law of averages catching up with me. I feel like I played well the first two days but these greens are very difficult to putt, not just the slope of them but they seem to be quite a bit slower than what we are used to. So it is very difficult to make putts. Today I had a couple early that I made, got the confidence up and really played well, not just on the greens but tee to green as well.

 Q. Did you think, in those early stages, that there was a score out there for you today?
 TODD HAMILTON: Yes it seems like out here, or even at home, when I am going well I just seem to throw in a bogey to throw water on the fire so to speak. But today I kept it going. I actually messed up my last hole, the ninth, because I had a chance to knock it on in two on the par five and make another birdie but didn't do it. But it is good to know that your mess up holes are par and not bogeys or doubles.

 Q. First 64 in how long?
 TODD HAMILTON: It's been quite a while, even at home. I had one really good round playing with some friends where I was trying out a new putter and it worked that day and I think I made something like ten birdies. But as far as a round that actually counted for something, I couldn't tell you the last time I shot 64.

 Q. Have you given yourself a chance here do you think?
 TODD HAMILTON: Well I think I probably started a little bit too far back. The course is not playing all that difficult as I mentioned, the greens are slow, so you don't really have to be careful about putts, you can give them a good rap and try to make as many of them as you can. It is pretty generous off the tee and not much rough. I suppose if you start playing poorly then any golf course is difficult but the calibre that is here on the European Tour, especially the guys who are up at the top of the leaderboard, I would probably have to have another eight or nine under tomorrow to have a chance.

 Q. How often will we get to see you on The European Tour this year?
 TODD HAMILTON: I don't have a very good status at home in the States, so I guess I'll get in about ten events over there without any sponsor invites, but I'll be hoping to get a few of those. I will probably say, I'm going to play about maybe a minimum of 15 tournaments on The European Tour this year.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT