VIVENDI CUP 2010
September 23, 2010
Todd Hamilton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Was it as effortless as it looked?  
 TODD HAMILTON: It didn't seem easy, but it felt effortless. My timing was good today. I made some good putts early on and got into a good flow. And as I mentioned earlier to you, I haven't golfed very well this year, so it's nice to see a decent round for a change.   
  
  Q. Are you enjoying your European adventure?  
 TODD HAMILTON: It's been great. I've been here for a month now, four different countries I've never been to. Seen a lot of cool things, a lot of things I'd like to come back and see again.  
  
  Q. What exactly have you seen?   
 TODD HAMILTON: Saw the mountains in Switzerland. I live in Dallas, Texas, so we don't have any of that. Actually I didn't play well there, but took a trip up to see the glacier at the top of one of the mountains, which I'm not the greatest as far as heights, so that was an experience for me. It's been a great trip.   
  
  Q. Are you taking a trip to Wales next week?  
 TODD HAMILTON: I'm not. I'm actually going to probably play a tournament back home on the PGA Tour in the U.S. I'm going to be rooting my team on. I think it's going to be a tough battle for us, but I'd love to see the matches come down to the last putt on the last hole. I think that would be great for golf.   
  
  Q. Who stands out for you?  
 TODD HAMILTON: Well, I think each side has about the same number of first time -- first time Ryder Cup players, so it's going to be interesting how those guys are worked into the matches and how their nerves are.   
 I know the U.S. Team has a lot of guys that hit the ball a very long ways, which I understand the weather could be not so good there, it could be a little wet.   
 So I think that will do them good, and again, it always comes down to putting; so whoever is in good form. I think The European Team is probably in better form from top to bottom than our team. But I think it will be a good match.   
  
  Q. Any obvious pairings you'd like to see play together?   
 TODD HAMILTON: Boy, I don't know, I think it would be great as I mentioned earlier to see a last match decide everything on the last hole with, say, Tiger and Rory McIlroy. I know Rory wanted to play Tiger early on, so I think that would be great.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT