JOHNNIE WALKER CLASSIC
March 1, 2008
Taichiro Kiyota
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   RODDY WILLIAMS:  Thank you very much for joining us, very well played today.  What would it mean to you to win the Johnnie Walker Classic as you head into the final round? 
 TAICHIRO KIYOTA:  Very much excited, I may not be able to play! It is unbelievable. This is the first time I have been in this position so I am expecting an unbelievable day. It would be a miracle to win. 
 RODDY WILLIAMS:  You sound very excited, how will you approach tomorrow? 
 TAICHIRO KIYOTA:  I will try to play my golf but there may be some distractions or whatever, but I will try to overcome all of them and do my best golf. 
 RODDY WILLIAMS:  Playing with Jyoti today, you had a very big crowd, what was that like? 
 TAICHIRO KIYOTA:  There were many people supporting him and I enjoyed playing with him. Jyoti is a hero in India and I was very excited about playing with him. I intentially thought they were supporting me and fed of their energy. 
 RODDY WILLIAMS:  On the final hole, can you talk us through that hole, how you made birdie there? 
 TAICHIRO KIYOTA:  Second shot, I had too long a club. I went in the water yesterday so didn't want to be short again. Because of that I hit a three iron and a four iron probably would have been too much. Then the pitch was just a miracle shot. 
I am thrilled to make a birdie from the grandstand. We were allowed a drop which gave us a good lie. Then hit a miracle shot. 

 Q.  Could you tell us how you started playing golf? 
 TAICHIRO KIYOTA:  Started playing golf at the age of nine and had been playing golf as an amateur for 13 years and in 2003 I became a professional player. I started playing because of my father. 

 Q.  This is your first time in India if I'm not wrong, how is it so far and would you come back again to play? 
 TAICHIRO KIYOTA:  Actually I have been here in October last year.  I played the Indian Open at the Delhi Golf Club, and this is the third time for me here.  And I enjoy golf very much here and will come back here as much as possible.  

 Q.  Jyoti chose the wrong club on the last hole, what did you choose? 
 TAICHIRO KIYOTA:  Three was wrong, four was correct.  He said even with four it might be a bit too long, so four and a half. 

 Q.  How did you find the golf course, and what is your interests apart from golf?  Did you ever think of an alternate career? 
 TAICHIRO KIYOTA:  Your first question, my impression of this course, it is beautiful, much more beautiful than I had expected.  And also, the tournament itself is very well supported by the people as well as the sponsors.  So I'm very much pleased to play here. 
 Regarding the second question, my interest now is in cricket.  (Laughing). 

 Q.  What do you think you'll need to shoot tomorrow, what will it take to win? 
 TAICHIRO KIYOTA:  I'm expecting that the winning score will be 17- or 18-under par.  It depends on the placement of the pins. 
 RODDY WILLIAMS:  Thank you very much and good luck. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT