U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 23, 2001
Taichiro Kiyota
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TAICHIRO KIYOTA (through interpreter):  He said he's very aware of James.  He went to Masters.  He played with Maryama and he was surprised to see him at this tournament this year.  Matching with him this afternoon, he was very happy and excited to play with him.  Since he saw his game on The Masters TV show, he wanted to play with him this tournament.  So he was very excited and he tried to enjoy just playing golf with him.  It was a very nice experience. 

TAICHIRO KIYOTA (through interpreter):  He said it was his dream since he was a kid, playing golf at The Masters.  So this is the closest way to approach, to get the ticket.  And, yes, the game in Japan is important because he's a team player and his team is playing right now.  But he just wanted to try to get into this tournament and he just wanted to know what kind of competitors there are as compared with U.S. amateurs.  And he wanted to just try to know his golf skills.  Also, it's just toward his dream.  And he wants a challenge for his dream. 

Q.  Congratulations.  This is quite a financial undertaking for you, coming all the way from Japan to qualify, going back home to Tokyo, and coming back over to play.  It hasn't been very easy for you.  And the more successful you are, the more you're spending, is that correct?

TAICHIRO KIYOTA (through interpreter):  He said that since this is his dream, playing golf in the USA and U.S. Amateur tournament, he had a big support from his parents, especially his father.  He coached when he was a kid.  He's very supportive of joining this tournament.  Also offering financial support, as well. 

Q.  Is he going to call them now or is it too early in the morning?

TAICHIRO KIYOTA (through interpreter):  He said, yes, of course.  No matter what time over there, make a ring and it wakes them up. 

TAICHIRO KIYOTA (through interpreter):  He said that, actually, he played at Junior World Championship at La Jolla at San Diego, but comparing with Japanese tournament, he feels there's much more management and more volunteers and the course is very high maintenance.  He can concentrate on playing golf, and he can really enjoy playing golf at the course. 

Q.  Does he know Shingo?

TAICHIRO KIYOTA (through interpreter):  Yes.

Q.  Did he watch any of him on television last week? 

TAICHIRO KIYOTA Yes (through interpreter):  Actually, when Shingo was college student, he was in junior high school and they played together a long time in Japan.

TAICHIRO KIYOTA (through interpreter):  He said no matter what Ryuji did in the past, his challenge is a good example for the other Japanese amateurs also who are college students.  That's why he just wants to try tomorrow, no matter what, regardless of the result of the game. 

TAICHIRO KIYOTA:  Thank you very much. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT