MONSTER ENERGY NASCAR CUP SERIES: FORD ECOBOOST 400
November 19, 2017
Sherry Pollex
Martin Truex, Jr.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. The first thing I saw you do as you went crazy in the car was sort of grab your helmet and try to take in the moment. What is that moment like?   
MARTIN TRUEX JR.: I don't even know. I was a mess. I didn't know‑‑ I couldn't even talk. I was a wreck thinking about all the tough days, the bad days, the times where I thought my career was over with, the times when I didn't think anyone believed in me, but the guys, the people who mattered did, my fans, my family, and then when I got with this team. They're unbelievable, and they resurrected my career and made me a champion. I don't know what to say.  
   
 Q. You have documented the fact that you guys felt so strong, so put together, the scruffy playoff beards are just an example of your style and how you approach things. You have a team member named Jim Watson who is looking down on this right now, all the fans in Colorado who have cheered you on, what does this mean to them and the guys behind you?   
MARTIN TRUEX JR.: This means the world. Barney Visser, 11 years of working towards this goal. He couldn't be here tonight. We're thinking of him. Definitely wish he could be here. I know he's probably about as much in shock as I am. But Jim Watson, Cole's best friend, Sherry, everybody battling something, this one's for you guys. All my buds back in New Jersey, all my Wall Stadium guys back there, thank you, and I don't even know how to put this into words. It's not sunk in yet. Tonight's going to be a hell of a party.   
I know you congratulated Martin as soon as he got out of the car; what did you say to him in that moment?   
SHERRY POLLEX: I mean, I told him that's why you never give up, becausethese guys are so cool. That's been our motto all along, ever since I started my cancer battle. We were never going to give up, and we didn't.  
   
 Q. And I know those words mean so much. It's not just on the track, those are words for anyone out there in life, as Martin said, who's battling something. I think that's what makes this team so relatable, overcoming adversity, everyone out there dealing with us. And you have taken something that is very tough that you have gone through and turned it into a triumph in the way you guys live your life and the perspective that you have. How has that helped you raise you on those bad days to this moment right now?   
SHERRY POLLEX: Yeah, well, I think to his point, everybody is battling something, everybody is fighting something in their life, not just cancer but any kind of struggle that they're going through in their life. We always say if you can fight a struggle with a positive attitude and just have a smile on your face and find the good and the silver lining in everything, in the end you'll come out and karma will pay you back and good things will happen to you. We try to do as much as we can with our foundation and Sherry Strong to help other people, and I keep telling Martin if we continue to do that, good things will happen to us, and this is the best thing that could happen.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT