SWINGING SKIRTS LPGA CLASSIC
April 24, 2014
Dewi Claire Schreefel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Great opening round: 68.   What was working for you out there today?  
DEWI CLAIRE SCHREEFEL:   Everything pretty good.   I think the stats for driving are not going to show that I hit it pretty good, but when I missed it was solid.   So it was still out there.   I got out of the rough okay.  
Putter was really, really nice day.   I mean, when you make birdies you're rolling the putter well.  
I had some shots in there that I didn't really have to make long putts, but I made some decent ones, too, like 25‑ and 20‑footers.   
All in all I played really well from tee to green.  
   
 Q.   A lot of the talk this week is about how difficult this course is playing and is going to play.   Talk about the challenges that this course presents to a golfer.   
DEWI CLAIRE SCHREEFEL:   I was a little surprised when people said it was really tough, but I think the colder it's going to get, the rainy, the windy, the teeth of the course are going to show.  
It's going to be longer and you're going to hit longer clubs in.   The greens are playing pretty firm, so it's going to be hard to get it close and keep it on the green.  
Today there wasn't that much wind.   That's why I think the scores are reasonably low.   At times we go way lower.   That's why you still see some under‑par scores.   
So we'll see what brings tomorrow.   I mean, I think tomorrow is going to be a sketchy day with the weather.   We'll see what it is.  
I think if you drive the ball well, you get some roll out of the fairways and you have shorter clubs in.   Again, if it's going to blow hard, it's all different.  
   
 Q.   You mentioned the weather.   Talk about the two‑hour delay you had this morning and what you did during that time.   
DEWI CLAIRE SCHREEFEL:   Well, I was luckily in bed when one of the other players texted me there was a delay.   So I just had a pleasant morning where I'm staying.   I relaxed and kept to my routine and didn't come out here earlier than I would.  
Just did my thing.   I can see if you're out here and the first tee time it's annoying, because you're getting ready and you can't start and you have to wait and wait and wait and have to get ready in a different rhythm.  
But not for me.   I mean, I knew what was happening and I just kept to my routine.  
   
 Q.   Finally, going off that, you got your 18 in today.   Some people aren't going to be able to.   Do you see that as an advantage going into tomorrow?  
DEWI CLAIRE SCHREEFEL:   Oh, definitely.   Especially when you have your round going like I did, you don't want to stop.   You want to keep the good rhythm.   You don't want to have to rush and then rush to come out here in the morning and feel all different.  
So, I mean, it's a huge plus to finish the round.   I think a bunch of them are going to finish, but I feel for them that are not going to finish.   And it's going to be so cold, so...  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT