RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
July 29, 2011
Dewi Claire Schreefel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DEWI CLAIRE SCHREEFEL: I qualified on Monday, couldn't play on Tuesday, so just 18 holes on Wednesday. I sneaked in eight holes on Monday evening, but yeah, not too much.

 Q. How comfortable are you on this golf course? 
 DEWI CLAIRE SCHREEFEL: I mean, I think pretty comfortable. It's just wait and see if the wind is going to come up, but you've just got to hit your drive in a good spot and attack the greens because they're pretty -- at certain spots they're undulating, but pretty flat, so if you hit your spots, you're going to have a few opportunities.

 Q. Do you feel like the setup is a little bit, I don't want to see easy, but on the -- not as difficult as you may have expected?
 DEWI CLAIRE SCHREEFEL: I think they set it up with the wind in mind. I mean, if it's going to blow 15, 20 miles an hour from the normal direction, it's going to be a totally different golf course. So with the wind and the weather that it is right now, yes, the scores are going to be lower, as you know. We get par-5s that we can reach easily and some par-4s they are expecting us to hit with short irons, too. So hopefully the wind picks up and we get a couple higher scores.

 Q. How comfortable are you being on the leaderboard in a major championship heading into the weekend?
 DEWI CLAIRE SCHREEFEL: I guess we'll see. I mean, I'm feeling pretty confident, I've just got to stick to my game and what I'm doing, and we'll see where it goes. 

 Q. Can we go through your birdies and bogeys?
 DEWI CLAIRE SCHREEFEL: 2, hit my drive a little bit left in the semi, 7-iron to about 20 feet, straight putt in.
 5, 3-wood, 8-iron to about 20 feet again, made that.
 6, par-5, made an eagle, driver, rescue, and then had a roller-coaster putt that went in. I mean, you've got to do that. 

 Q. How far was that? 
 DEWI CLAIRE SCHREEFEL: I'm going to say 40 to 50 feet. 
 Bogey on 9, hit my driver, 9-iron left in the bunker, didn't make my eight-footer for par.
 Hole No. 10, driver, 4-iron in the right bunker, holed out from the bunker. 
 Then 14, I believe, par-5, driver, rescue, not on the green, but I putted from about 40 feet to three feet, birdie. 
 17, 4-iron, rescue, just on the front of the green, two-putt. 

 Q. Overall how do you feel about your round today?
 DEWI CLAIRE SCHREEFEL: I mean, I've got to be pleased. I played really well. I hit my driver good in spots that I wanted to and hit my irons the same as yesterday, just rolled in a few longer ones. In the beginning you're not expecting to make 20, 25 footers all the time. It was nice that they rolled in, and today I really took advantage of the par-5s. Yesterday I let them go at 14 and 17. But I'm very happy. 

 Q. Have you much experience on links courses? 
 DEWI CLAIRE SCHREEFEL: With amateur golf, I mean, I played a lot of British Girls, British Am and all that. But I was saying when I hit the qualifier, I was hitting balls before the practice round, I'm like, hmm, got to adjust a little bit. I wasn't used to it anymore because in college we don't play that. I think it's been six years ago since I've played links. Yeah, but obviously it's going quite well. 

 Q. What are your hopes now this weekend?
 DEWI CLAIRE SCHREEFEL: Just stick to my game plan, stick to what I'm doing and stay relaxed, and we'll see where it goes.

 Q. How many majors have you played? 
 DEWI CLAIRE SCHREEFEL: This is my third this year, plus another two so far.

 Q. Quick question about Golf Team Holland. When I was at the Open two weeks ago, I followed Floris and Joost a little bit and then again I'm just seeing Christel has just watched you putt out. Is there some sort of team feeling that goes beyond just the fact that you're all looked after by one organisation? 
 DEWI CLAIRE SCHREEFEL: I don't think it's necessarily because of Golf Team Holland. I think it's because we grew up in amateur golf. Christel and I have known each other since we were 15, so we played all through amateur golf, and then in college we were there -- not at the same college but we saw each other, and in the summer you play together again. I think it's more that. We just have a very good relationship because we've known each other for so long.

 Q. How does Golf Team Holland work? They pay you a wage the first three years?
 DEWI CLAIRE SCHREEFEL: They're set up that beginning golfers in Holland can have the opportunity to try and play out here. I mean, I don't know if I can go into details, but yeah, they pay us and the expenses are paid, and we get the opportunity to go out here and have the coaching that we want, not having to worry about how do we travel.

 Q. Do you stay together or not really?
 DEWI CLAIRE SCHREEFEL: 50/50, a little bit more. When I play in Europe I mostly stay with the Dutch girls, so yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT