FLORIDA STATE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 27, 2017
Alec Eberle
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Florida State - 3, Boston College - 35
Q. What was the message that Jimbo had for you guys in the locker room after the game?
ALEC EBERLE: I mean, it was a really physical game.  Boston College is a heck of a team and they showed up to play.  We just didn't play up to our potential and pretty much got outplayed.  They just, you know --
Q. Does it seem like when you guys have down moments in games, does it seem like things snowball and you guys maybe get discouraged?
ALEC EBERLE: I don't think so.  Our teams always have pretty good confidence.  We always tend to bounce back from problems.  I think today we just didn't have our game.  You know, when you look at a loss, it's more of an I, me thing.  What could I have done better as a teammate, as a center, as a captain?  You just have to look at it.  I don't think I played well enough.  I think I should have picked it up and picked my teammates up more, led them out there and done a better job.
Q. Are guys putting too much pressure on some of the big-picture things and not focusing in on the smaller things right now?
ALEC EBERLE: I mean, like the key to our whole season this year is focus on the details, focus on those things.  I think it's easy to overlook the little things and the details.  We have to do a better job of that.  Football is a game of inches, a game of details and little things.  We've got to match those inches.  Until we do, then things aren't going to go our way.  So we've just got to get back to the drawing board and practice and just get ready and really key in and hone in on those little things and details.
Q. What was B.C. doing that was causing you so many issues on defense?
ALEC EBERLE: Nothing.  They were a good team.  They play hard.  They're physical, and they just, they're really well-coached.  Hat's off to them, they played a heck of a game tonight.  They're hot right now.
Q. Is James, I mean, how is he handling more turnovers in big situations?  How is he handling it all?
ALEC EBERLE: With each game James gets more mature and mature.  Today is one of those games.  The whole time on the sideline he kept saying it ain't over.  It ain't over until it's over.  Let's go down the field and score, and let's play.  Let's do one job at a time.  He's got confidence, and that's important as a quarterback, especially being the starting quarterback on a team like our team.  I think he's growing up each week and I'm proud of him.
Q. Do you guys need that from other players?  Do you need more encouragement, more fight from other players?
ALEC EBERLE: Football's a team game.  You could sit here and say that, but at the same time, you shouldn't have to rely -- you should have to rely on each other, but at the same time, if you need someone else to give you juice, then that's not going to work.  You need to bring your own juice.  You've got to bring your own juice to the party sometimes.
I think we're learning that and we're going to continue to grow as a team, and we've got to keep working and keep practicing.
Q. Do you think there were a lot of guys that weren't bringing the juice?  What is the issue?
ALEC EBERLE: Not at all.  That's what I'm saying.  You can't rely on anyone to bring you the juice.  It's football.  We love it.  The whole team loves this game.  It's a team.  That's what we do.  We're football players.  But like I'm saying, you can't rely on someone else to bring that.  That's why our team does a good job of bringing it up themselves and they'll continue to do that.
Q. People see the final score and assume that you guys are kind of packing it in.  Did you sense that at all from anybody?
ALEC EBERLE: No.  I mean, we're never going to lay down.  I've been on this team, this is my fourth season.  Never once have we quit and never once have we given up.  It's not how we practice or how we play.  We're going to keep going, keep grinding and keep going until we get our backs off that wall.  So I think this team won't lay down.  I think we'll keep grinding and play hard.
Q. Are you shocked to where this team is playing right now?
ALEC EBERLE: Yeah, definitely.  Starting off the way we did this early in the season, looking at it right now, it's kind of, yeah, it's shocking.  But at the same time, you can't reach down and reset.  You have to keep pushing and keep grinding and just make the best.  Execute one day, one play, one practice, one game at a time.  You've got to continue to do that and keep working.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT