NCAA WOMEN'S REGIONAL SEMIFINALS AND FINALS: SPOKANE
March 24, 2018
Sue Guevara
Tinara Moore
Presley Hudson
Cassie Breen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Oregon - 83, Central Michigan - 69   
THE MODERATOR: We are joined by Central Michigan.  We will begin with an opening statement from coach and then open the floor to questions for the student-athletes.   
SUE GUEVARA: First of all, I think give a lot of credit to Oregon.  They're tough, they have a lot of weapons.  When they're firing, they're firing.   
I'll tell you something, I cannot tell you enough how proud I am of our team, the way we battled.  I thought that at one point we were able to cut the lead from 15, and I think we got it to 10 maybe, or 9.  We just couldn't get over that hump.   
I thought that we had some great looks.  They didn't go down.  But I love this team.  I couldn't be more proud of the effort that they gave today and that they've given all season.   
THE MODERATOR: We will now take questions for the student-athletes.   
 Q.  Cassie, when you had the back-to-back threes, that cut the lead to 9 at that point.  What was the feeling on the team?  
CASSIE BREEN: I think the feeling on the team was that we weren't going to give up.  We were just going to keep pushing.  Whether it was back-to-back threes or Tinara's back-to-back and-one layups, we just wanted to fight.  We knew it was going to be a fight against Oregon.  Obviously they're a really great team.  We just didn't want to give up.   
So that adrenaline and that emotion, like, after my and-one, I was just, like, last 20 minutes, we got to give it all we got.   
 Q.  Tinara, this might have been your last game.  Do you want to have a chance to reflect on your career, this season specifically.  
TINARA MOORE: It's just been amazing.   
I don't want to answer, I'm sorry.   
SUE GUEVARA: It's been amazing for what Tinara has gone through.  Obviously she's pretty emotional.  Again, if you look at what she has done in the four years of her career here, I don't think we've ever had a player improve as much as she has improved.  You know, when you love something so much, it hurts.  It hurts.   
 Q.  Presley, touch on what these two seniors have meant to you, playing for Central Michigan.  
PRESLEY HUDSON: I'm going to miss 'em a lot.  They're family.   
THE MODERATOR: At this time we'll dismiss the student-athletes.  Thank you for your time.   
SUE GUEVARA: Thanks, guys.  I appreciate that.   
THE MODERATOR: We will now move on to questions for coach.   
 Q.  It really came down to that first half where it seemed like all the open shots didn't go in.  
SUE GUEVARA: It came down to the first quarter.  I thought, you know, we had some open looks, looks that usually go in, that did not go in, whether it was from the high post or short corner.  I thought, you know, if we could have got our outside game going a little bit, I think it would have helped our inside game.   
Again, I think you give Oregon some credit.  They're long.  They got that big paw up in you.  They were really bodying us up inside.  I'm not sure that we adjusted quick enough offensively inside.   
Then you saw Tinara get going a little bit, and that helped.  Obviously Cassie hitting some shots, Presley hitting some shots.  We took Presley off the point so she would be able to come off some screens, maybe get her shot off a little bit.  When they were switching, maybe attack their bigs a little bit, hit a little floater or create for other people.   
But, I mean, they're pretty good.   
 Q.  What was the conversation like, if there is one, in the locker room immediately following this game?  
SUE GUEVARA: I went in and I told them that I was so proud of them.  I thought, you know, we just kept fighting.  We just kept fighting.  We just couldn't get over that hump.   
I think when you lose a basketball game, and you did everything that you could possibly do, sometimes you just lose to a better team.  You know, they were bigger.  They were bigger, they shot it better than we did tonight.  I was kind of surprised on the boards that it was only 44-46, we had 22 offensive rebounds.  The 16 offensive rebounds they got were at inopportune times for us.   
We got them to miss the shots, it's four for a quarter, you miss three, get the offensive rebound, hit a three, it's a dagger, takes the wind out of you.   
The senior class has just done an outstanding job.  Our players that don't play really embrace the role.  I can't ask any more of them than what I got for 35 games, let alone every day in practice.   
 Q.  Most winning class in program history, MAC champions, first tournament win.  Touch on the senior class, what it's been like to coach them for four years.  
SUE GUEVARA: I said this in the locker room.  This senior class, I mean, we should put them up here on a poster.  For all the freshmen that are out there, the sophomores and juniors, look at what they have done over the course of their career.  I'm talking in the classroom, too, and in the community, how they have really embraced Central Michigan University and the Mt. Pleasant community.  They're great role models.   
I think for, you know, the teams that are going to be coming in after, these guys, these seniors, really set the bar high.  That's what you're supposed to do.  That's exactly what you're supposed to do.  You know what?  I can hardly wait to get the next couple teams to get that bar even higher.   
 Q.  What stands out to you?  The finest women's basketball season ever had at CMU.  
SUE GUEVARA: What's your question?   
 Q.  This is the best season women's basketball has ever had at CMU, Sweet 16, championships, great grades.  What stands out to you?  
SUE GUEVARA: I told them this.  They are the most coachable team I've ever been a part of in 38 years because they listen.  It doesn't matter sometimes if I'm just rah-rah, they listen, they have thick skin.  They understand the person on the right, they have to trust the person on the right, the person on their left, and trust us.   
I think they're so coachable.  And their work ethic.  I've said that all along.  This isn't the first time you hear me talk about how this team works when nobody's watching.  They're working before we get in the gym.  I have to drag them off the gym floor.   
They've really been a lot of fun to coach.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you for your time, coach.   
SUE GUEVARA: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT