CAMPING WORLD MAUI INVITATIONAL
November 30, 2020
Courtney Ramey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Texas - 78, Davidson - 76
Q. What did you see on the game-winning basket?
COURTNEY RAMEY:   Oh, I just saw an open lane.  I saw an open lane.  Obviously I could pass it to Jericho or make the play myself and then Jericho did a good job in the game of just making himself available so they had to take him away which freed me up.
Q. Take us through the game-winning bucket.  What did you see on that play?
COURTNEY RAMEY:   It was a lot.  Matt did a good job of drawing the two and my job was to come around the wishbone and that allowed me to get free and then my job is when they pressure me is to go past him and then my reads were once again to either pass to Jericho or else make a play myself.
Q. What are your thoughts on Coach Smart's new hairstyle?
COURTNEY RAMEY:   I told him to cut it, but, I mean, it's going good so far, so he should keep it.
Q. How difficult was Davidson's system to defend, especially early on?
COURTNEY RAMEY:   It's so hard to like prepare for it because we don't run it ourselves and then it's always difficult when they've been doing it for over 30 years with the same coach, so he has it down pat.  I just think we came out too passive at first and they just got open looks and I feel like our physicality over time kind of wore them down, even with their 3-pointers they came a little bit short, especially the last shot.
Q. Scoring was really spread around today.  How important was that for your success?
COURTNEY RAMEY:   We're an older team so each and every night it's going to be somebody different.  I was just talking to Kai Jones, he didn't really play a lot in the first half because of foul trouble, I want to say he gave us 12 or 13 in the second half, which were big buckets.  And then Brock Cunningham did what he did and gave us five points off rebounds and just played great defense.  And then Matt did a good job of just controlling the game and Andrew as well.
Q. What was the mood and conversation in the huddle on the court during the final tight minutes?
COURTNEY RAMEY:   We have been there before.  We practice that all the time in practice.  We call it the last four situations.  And we just -- if we did what we do and they did what they did, we would be better, because we're the better team and that's what happened tonight.  We just stuck with it, even through our mistakes.  That was our main message, to play relentless and I think that's what we did.  We also can learn from this game though.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT