WNBA ALL-STAR GAME
July 28, 2018
Liz Cambage
Allie Quigley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Team Parker - 119, Team Delle Donne - 112
Q. Liz, you gave your shoe after the game to a young fan.  Certainly looked like you just made her day.  How important is doing things like that, engaging the fans in terms of building the league and building the fan base?
LIZ CAMBAGE: Yeah, you know, the fans are the reason we're here.  We wouldn't be here without them, and we love them so much.  Anything we can do to connect and encourage future players and fans, it's really important.
Q. Allie Quigley, please tell us your thoughts about winning the three-point contest, and Liz, are you going to enter the three-point contest next year?
ALLIE QUIGLEY: Yeah, it was so exciting to be able to do it again.  It was a little bit more interesting than I thought it was going to be with the tiebreaker, but so many good shooters in that group, I'm just really happy that I was able to get in the zone there and win it.
LIZ CAMBAGE: Get in the zone, girl.  I'm getting you as my trainer for real.  I want to be able to splash a three like this one.  She is amazing.
But yeah, we need some big girls in the three-point contest, even if it's guards go first and bigs go second.  Me and BG [Brittney Griner] were saying that while they were shooting because we were bitter.  We felt left out today.  But yeah, let's get the big girls in there.
ALLIE QUIGLEY: Or a dunk contest.
LIZ CAMBAGE: Girl.  I'm getting old now.  I'm not early 20s no more.  It took a lot for me.  I want to pull up and shoot the three, but Candace [Parker] told me to go dunk it, so...
Q. Allie, the overtime sessions that you needed to win this kind of got a little hairy.  How did you manage to refocus and then come back out and particularly go five for five in the money wreck?
ALLIE QUIGLEY: I was just like, it's go time, now or never.  You've just got to be relaxed and confident and kind of hope they go in, and the crowd, I kind of fed off the crowd and Team Parker.  They helped a lot.
Q. What was it like to play at this kind of caliber an All-Star Game in Minnesota for the first time, and Liz, your first year back in the WNBA in a few years and you essentially go off.  Talk a little bit about your experience here in Minnesota, please.
ALLIE QUIGLEY: Yeah, Minnesota does it big even for their regular-season games, so we knew bringing the All-Star Game here, it was going to be nothing less.  They definitely packed the house, and you can tell they love women's basketball, they love the WNBA, and like Liz said, we appreciate that support because without them we can't be here.  We're really happy that Minnesota was able to put on a great show.
Q. Allie, you win the three-point contest, second year in a row, but that also means that you get $10,000 for the Patrick Quigley foundation.  Can you talk a little bit about that foundation, what it means to you, and then the second question, just being able to play in the WNBA where you have an opportunity to play for the Patrick Quigley foundation.
ALLIE QUIGLEY: Yeah, it's for my dad.  He passed away when I was young and he went to this high school that it's going to go towards and so did I, and it's just for underprivileged kids that aren't able to maybe have the money to go to this school, so it's just a nice scholarship that I'm able to give back, and it means a lot.  Every time even last year I think about him right before I start shooting, so that's probably the reason why I'm able to win it.
Q. Allie, when Maya Moore received the MVP, she mentioned you by name.  Just want your thoughts as to that recognition?
ALLIE QUIGLEY: Yeah, I was shocked.  I mean, Maya is a proven winner.  She's a legend.  For her to say that, that's just the kind of person she is, the kind of player she is.  She wins an MVP and she's talking about the rest of her team and how amazing the fans are, so she's just a class act and great for our league.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT