MLB WORLD SERIES: YANKEES v BRAVES
October 26, 1999
Chad Curtis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Can you talk a little bit about thinking that you might not even be making the
roster, now you're the World Series hero. A little bit about that thought process?

CHAD CURTIS: Definitely was a tough year for me. There were times when I was hoping to
get a little bit more playing time than I got. I said it a couple times already, last year
I played almost every game during the regular season and never got to step on the field
for the World Series. During the off season, I had told several people, I said if it was
reverse next year where I didn't play much during the regular season but got a chance to
play and contribute in the World Series, I would make that trade, and I guess that's kind
of happened.

Q. Chad, can you tell us what you were thinking when you hit the home run? Did you know
it was gone right away when you hit the game-winner?

CHAD CURTIS: I knew it pretty quick. Both home runs I hit, I was going up there and
trying to gear myself back a little bit. I have a tendency to get too hyped up and try to
do too much. Both of those at-bats I went up there, said I'm going to try to hit it. With
Glavine I was trying to drive a ball through the right side. Last one I was trying to hit
a ball back through the middle, get on base. I think when you take that approach you leave
yourself in a better position to hit a mistake. That's what happened.

Q. You've always been a team player and always for the team. The team -- your teammates
made a decision about Jim Gray of NBC. After you hit the home run, he came over to talk to
you. Can you discuss a little bit what was said and what wasn't said?

CHAD CURTIS: It's not a personal thing with me and Jim Gray. It's a thing that the team
decided what -- I saw the whole interview with Pete, and to me, I don't know what Pete
did, I don't know what Pete's -- whether he should be in the Hall of Fame or shouldn't be,
all I know was that was a special day for Pete and some other people. He probably should
have been able to just have an enjoyment of that celebration and not have to answer
questions about other things, and it just really upset some people. So as a team we
decided to, you know, boycott talking to him on the field. And, like I said, it's not a
personal thing against him, it's just something we decided as a team to do. If my
teammates decide that, I'm going to honor it.

Q. Just describe the feeling, a walk off post-season home run in Yankee Stadium,
rounding the bases, were you flying around those bases or what?

CHAD CURTIS: I don't remember. (Laughter.) It was special, you know, I don't think --
in fact, I know I've never hit one in the regular season. I've never hit a walk-off home
run. And I've heard people talk about tingling, I've never felt that before. I think
somewhere between second and third I felt like there was electricity running through my
legs. It was a great feeling. You're rounding third base coming home, seeing all your
teammates there waiting for you in a World Series game, it was a big thrill.

Q. Fate worked on your side; can you talk about Glavine got sick the first game, you
didn't get your first World Series start. You come to Yankee Stadium, hit two runs. Can
you talk about how it was to wait?

CHAD CURTIS: I was very disappointed. I was really fired up to play in Game 1, and, you
know, I showed up to the ballpark, I didn't know about it. In fact, I had been there
probably a half hour and somebody said I want to watch some video, he said Glavine's not
pitching don't you. I said what? He was joking I thought. You called it fate. Everyone who
knows me knows I'm a person that has faith in God. I know at times we think we have a
pretty good plan but I'm one that believes God has a better plan for me than I have for
myself, and that's -- I try to have faith in him as much as I can and just because I
didn't play in Game 1 didn't mean I wasn't going to get to play.

Q. In a lot of the World Series previews when they did the position-by-position break
down, leftfield was always an edge given to the Braves. Did you and Ricky take that
personally and did you want to go out and try to send a message?

CHAD CURTIS: No. I don't have so big an ego that I can't admit that other players are
better than me. There's no doubt there are a lot of players that are better than me.
Gerald had a good year this year, he played a lot more than I did. Tonight I was able to
help my team win and that's what means something. Next year, I hope I have a good year.
But whether there's a matchup, you know, if Ken Griffey Jr.'s on the other side, I got no
chance. It's just the way it is.

Q. You mentioned it, how upset were you that you really never got to play in the World
Series last year and how did you deal with the fact that all season long they went with
Tarasco and Spencer and Ricky out in the outfield and you never got much of a shot?

CHAD CURTIS: It was very frustrating last year. I played 152 games. That's 162 and 152.
I never stepped on field in the World Series. I wasn't pouting, we won the World Series.
By the same token, I felt like I was more congratulating my teammates than celebrating
with them. That was something I was a little uncomfortable with. During the off season, I
really was trying to take the mindset I'm going to be ready, I'm going to be prepared and
I'm going to be hopefully able to contribute this year. All through the year I didn't get
as much playing time as I was hoping to get. All the time, I knew I talked to Jeff Mangold
a lot, I was working out, trying to keep a focus saying, "I need to stay ready"
not only for myself but the people who are employing me right now to sit on the bench,
come off the bench and play every once in a while or be able to help. I worked very hard,
tried to persevere. I think that has a lot to did with my faith. I believe God's gifted me
with certain abilities that I need to use, whether it's in the limelight or whether it's
as a secondary thing.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT