TOSTITOS FIESTA BOWL: OHIO STATE v MIAMI
December 30, 2002
Michael Jenkins
Craig Krenzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Craig, I just wondered, Michael mentioned that you decided to take the linemen and receivers out for a meal and picked up the check.  Talk about that?
 
CRAIG KRENZEL:  They did so much for me this season, protecting me going out and making plays, I just wanted to show them that I was thankful.  More importantly provide an opportunity for us to go out as a team.  I think there is about 10 or 11 of us just to go out and have a good time. 
 

Q.  Was it a restaurant in Columbus?  Was it a nice place; did it cost a lot?
 
CRAIG KRENZEL:  You've got to ask Mike.  
 
MICHAEL JENKINS:  Yes, it was a nice restaurant. 
 

Q.  I'm wondering about the tab?
 
CRAIG KRENZEL:  It wasn't too bad.  I knew it was coming.  I have been saving up. 
 

Q.  Craig, Miami has been shown to give up some yardage.  Is that something you look at that where your scrambling may make a difference?
 
CRAIG KRENZEL:  You know, if they  -- they like to play a lot of man-to-man defense with two safeties behind it.  If they do that they have really no one on the quarterback.  That's where a lot of other team step-ups have come into play.  We've seen that on film.  Whether or not they can play it against us that's to be seen, and we're going to have to adjust to that.  If they do try to come out and play us, then there may be some step-up plays.  It's kind of a reaction. 
 

Q.  Craig, you have been successful on man-to-man coverage.  Do you feel confident that you guys can successfully complete that pass break and, Michael, you can catch it?
 
MICHAEL JENKINS:  Going against a lot of man-to-man coverage you have to get open.  We will be able to do that against these guys.  It will be exciting to see. 
 
CRAIG KRENZEL:  Same thing he just said:  We faced some pretty good corners this year.  Obviously Miami has two very good cover corners and a third guy off the bench when they go Nickey.  The biggest thing is our receivers running good, being able to shake the man-to-man coverage so there is a gap to throw the ball. 
 

Q.  A lot has been talked about Miami's speed.  Talk about, Craig, really what that presents in you as a player because in the media we like to talk about "fast Miami"?
 
CRAIG KRENZEL:  They have a tremendous amount of team speed but the last time I checked Chris Gamble is not very slow.  We have a bunch of guys recruited by the likes of Miami and Florida State that are known for their speed.  I think the biggest gap of speed between the two teams is their linebackers to our linemen -- they're a lot quicker than teams we've faced in the Big 10. 
 

Q.  Craig, Ken Dorsey always says that he doesn't care about how many times he throws, as long as they win.  What's your philosophy on that, especially in this game; would you kind of deep down like to throw a little more?
 
CRAIG KRENZEL:  Like Ken says, whatever it takes to win.  We played 13 games and I attempted 220 passes.  I'm still sitting up here smiling because we're 13 and 0. 
 

Q.  Craig, can you talk about Dorsey and his streak and his incredible record. 
 
CRAIG KRENZEL:  It's incredible for us as a team anybody in the country can say, "yeah, Miami won 34 games."  That's a great accomplishment.  For us sitting at 13-and-0, knowing how difficult it was physically emotionally and mentally and the type of hard work and work ethic you need to win that many games in a row, it's really an awesome accomplishment for them. 
 

Q.  Is this team ready to play right now?  If kickoff were tonight, is there still some things preparation-wise that you need to touch up on?  Is this team anxious to play? 
 
MICHAEL JENKINS:  I think so.  A lot of guys are anxious and ready to play.  We have been out here already a few days now and we're ready to get this game on.  Guys have been preparing.  We had a little break after the Michigan week.  We have been getting ready to play.  Coaches have been game planning for a while now.  We're ready.  We've seen a lot of film on them.  I think both sides are ready to play. 
 
CRAIG KRENZEL:  The same thing Mike said:  We have been preparing for them as soon as we found out we would be playing Miami.  Actually we probably prepared for them a little before they beat Virginia Tech on the assumption they did win to get a head start.  We're ready.  We feel if we had to play tonight we would be ready to go.  The game's not until Friday.  We're fortunate enough to have a few more days to prepare.  
 

Q.  Michael, you pretty much have had a stellar year of putting up good numbers.  What do you think about the fact that your name isn't out there as much as other receivers in the nation.  Do you think this game can be a showcase game for you?
 
MICHAEL JENKINS:  I'm going to continue to do the things I did all year to be successful and to help my team win.  If it's a showcase game, it is.  Not being out there with all the main guys, they're great receivers.  There are teams that throw the ball 40 and 50 times a game.  We don't do that.  Being able to do the things I've done here, I think that will speak for itself. 
 

Q.  You haven't come from way behind before.  Are you at all concerned about Miami getting up two to three itself and coming back?
 
CRAIG KRENZEL:  We don't plan on it happening to have to worry about it.  You know, at the same time if it does happen, I don't think we will change our game plan.  We will stick to what works, and we know that if you're defense does give up a couple of quick scores that they're going to change as well.  If they come out and get 21 points on us real quick, we have the confidence to come back and get those points back during the course of the game.  Obviously unless it's in the fourth quarter.  If we're down in the second quarter, we understand there is a whole another half to play to score. 
 

Q.  Maurice was saying he feels 100 percent.  How much different is your preparation knowing you don't have to worry about that?
 
CRAIG KRENZEL:  Maurice brings a lot to the table.  He's a big strong physical back.  The thing he does best is his patience and how well he sees the field.  At the same time, with Maurice in the game, we are a little different offense, but not terribly different.  It still rests on the execution of the other ten guys.  You know, you can look at the Michigan game.  Maurice played.  He had a good game.  We still only scored 14 points.  There are games without him that we scored 27 points or whatnot.  It comes down to all 11 guys doing their job. 
 
MICHAEL JENKINS:  Just like Craig said, it is the other ten guys on the field also.  He does bring a different presence when he's in the game, but we have played without him and done a good job in the backfield there. 
 

Q.  Craig, all the guys in here before were talking about your calmness, your composure.  Maurice said the same thing and admitted at times he was nervous in the huddle and you were not.  Were there times you looked at him and could tell the excitement was tough to control for him?
 
CRAIG KRENZEL:  He's a very emotional person.  I think he'll be the same way as a junior or sophomore.  I think it's the type of person and player he is.  It's great for us as a team.  We can feed off that and the crowd can feed off that and the defense can feed off his emotion and the things he does on the field.  There has been a ^couple ^ custom times when I'll tell him a joke or something to try to relax him, get his mind off football for a split second. 
 

Q.  In addition to Maurice being a freshman, you have had other freshman on this team make a big contribution this season.  How does that gel with the rest of the team where you get these guys who were playing high school ball last fall contributing to a team playing in the national championship?  How have the freshman affected this team?
 
MICHAEL JENKINS:  They have done a lot of great things; guys like Rob Sims, Nick, AJ on defense, those guys have filled in and done an excellent job for a freshman coming in playing a magnitude of this level.  We appreciate that and see the hard work they put in.  They're going to be spectacular players down the ^road ^ rode. 
 

Q.  How would you guys classify the team's attitude?  Would you say the guys are uptight at all?
 
CRAIG KRENZEL:  No, I think that's one of the things we do best as a team.  I think if you had to use one word right now, I would say confident.  If I could use a few more words, anxious, excited.  We want to start playing.  We would play right now if we could.  We're that excited.  We have that much confidence in ourselves that we can go out and beat a great team like Miami. 
 

Q.  Craig, as quarterback, how do you deal with a situation, encouraging the team when you have a big gainer called back because of penalty?  Is it difficult to deal with?
 
CRAIG KRENZEL:  It's really not.  One of the things that we do great as an offense is we put all our focus on the next play, what do we have to do.  If we get a 50-yard run that's called back, we immediately think about the next play.  I think we do a great job of that. 
 

Q.  The fact that you guys have been able to come back and win those games, has that helped your composure in the pocket and huddle and do you think that will help you in this game?
 
CRAIG KRENZEL:  I think as a team it will definitely help us.  Having played in many close games, we know how to keep our composure and keep our focus on the game to go out to make the plays to win.  Personally that's just kind of the way I've always been.  I've always been laid back and calm regardless of the situation. 
 

Q.  Do you think you've grown though this year?
 
CRAIG KRENZEL:  I think so, just from the sheer experience, the past attempts, all the opportunities to check plays at the line of scrimmage, I think I've grown a lot as a quarterback at this level.  Emotionally and the way I handle myself, I have always been this way. 
 

Q.  Do you get sick of people calling you a heady player or smart player?  Is that getting a little old?
 
CRAIG KRENZEL:  To be honest, I don't really care.  I don't really pay attention to what other people have to say to me.  I don't watch the news or read the paper.  I know I have the confidence in myself and I feel that my teammates have that confidence in me.  At the same time, I like being known as a smart player, a person who makes good decisions.  I'm sure Ken Dorsey will tell you that's what you need to win in this position.  You need a quarterback who is not going to make mistakes and turn the ball over. 
 

Q.  Mike, being a Florida guy, what does this game mean to you as it gets closer?  Does it mean more?
 
MICHAEL JENKINS:  Like I said before, there is no really added incentive to it.  It wasn't like it was a toss-up whether you go between Miami or Ohio State.  It's a championship game, and that makes it exciting. 
 

Q.  Aside from football, what's been the best part about being out here off the football field?
 
MICHAEL JENKINS:  The weather away from the snow in Columbus.  It's a nice city.  We have a beautiful, gorgeous hotel with a lot of hospitality.  A lot of guys enjoy the game room there, sitting back and relaxing and getting to the mall.  It's a real nice city out here.  We appreciate it. 
 
CRAIG KRENZEL:  The same thing Michael just said.  The area is great.  The scenery is beautiful.  The people at the Fiesta Bowl and all the volunteers do an outstanding job.  If we're fortunate to do the same thing next year, it will be disappointing not to come back to Tempe because I don't think you can beat this experience.  They've done an excellent job taking care of us.   
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT