WIMBLEDON
June 26, 2013
Marion Bartoli
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. BARTOLI/C. McHale
  7‑5, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   I wanted to ask you about your coaching situation with your father.   Does he still attend Wimbledon?   
MARION BARTOLI:   No, my father is not here with me anymore.   He was obviously very happy for my win.   He text me right after the match.  
But he will not be my coach anymore.   I'm working so far with all the French Federation who's helping me a lot, and my hitting partner.   So I don't feel lonely, to be honest with you.  
I have a huge team around me, which is great.   But so far, no, my dad is not going to coach me anymore.  
   
 Q.   Was that difficult to actually kind of separate?   
MARION BARTOLI:   Was it a tough decision to take?   Of course.   But I think at the end of the day you have to look at the things on the bright side.   The bright side is I still have so many years to play on, and we both felt it was a better decision to take.  
Obviously we are both looking forward for me to have better results on the court.   That's what it's all about.   
So I'm going to try my hardest to come back where I want to go, which is final of a Grand Slam.   If it happens, it's great.   If it doesn't, I know I already made it so it's not a big deal.  
   
 Q.   Was that a decision you've been thinking about for quite a while?  
MARION BARTOLI:   You don't take that overnight really.   You're kind of going through the plus and the minus.   
We agreed it was better for us to just do it that way.  
   
 Q.   Was it easy to be able to separate your personal and professional relationships when your father was your coach?   
MARION BARTOLI:   We had a great relationship, honestly.   I think I have a great career before.   
I'm very, very pleased and proud of what I've been able to achieve.   There is some times you just to have move on and change and do some few changes and be brave to do so.  
I just, for me at 28, it was time to try something different.   We both felt the same way, which is great.  
I still have a very good relationship with my dad, and I'm very happy every time I can see him.   Obviously it's my first Wimbledon without him, but I'm still calling him every day.  
So there is not really anything broken between the two of us.  
   
 Q.   Does he still like to give you vice ahead of big matches?  
MARION BARTOLI:   No.   Maybe on my dress, but not on the tennis side.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT