ROGERS CUP WOMEN
August 9, 2012
Marion Bartoli
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. BARTOLI/S. Peng 
  6‑1, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French, please.   
   
 Q.   Are you happy with this good start?  
MARION BARTOLI:   I'm feeling good.   I had a break after SanDiego.   I went home, and I didn't have to change surfaces to come in here, so I believe it's going to be an advantage for me in this tournament.  
I was able to play several good matches in SanDiego in a row, and I feel my game is well into place.   After the French Open and Wimbledon, this is important to me, because I felt my game was not good enough, and I wanted to see what was wrong about it.   Since SanDiego, I feel I am improving.  
   
 Q.   Why did everything improve in SanDiego?  
MARION BARTOLI:   Well, there are several reasons for that.   I felt the way I was hitting the ball had gone worse.   I don't believe I was hitting well on clay or on grass either.   I was letting my opponents dictate the points.   With my game, this is not possible.   
So I decided to do something about it, and in SanDiego, although I had very tough matches, I felt things were improving.   
I had also 10 days' practice at home, and I believe now I really made an improvement and I am going in the right direction.  
   
 Q.   Were you surprised that the match went so fast against Peng, who is a really good player?  
MARION BARTOLI:   I am disappointed I lost the first game in the second set, because I was giving her a break.   She didn't play so many winners in that game.   I just let her have it.   
We played twice already.   In Dubai it didn't really count, because I had an injury in my calf.   The last time we played we had long rallies, but both of us hit the ball early, so generally speaking, our matches don't last too long.   But for this match I thought I could finish it even faster.  
   
 Q.   What did you do during your 10 days at home?  
MARION BARTOLI:   Many things.   My brother came with his wife and his son, who is my nephew, and I did a lot of baby‑sitting.   He's just starting to walk, so I was practicing my reflexes following him everywhere.   
Anyway, it was good having time with my family.   Those 8 to 10 days at home did me a lot of good because I was able to do something else than what I usually do.  
   
 Q.   Kvitova?  
MARION BARTOLI:   We certainly are not going to have long rallies in that match.   She's a player who likes dictating the game.   I believe the winner will be the one who has the best ratio between unforced errors and winners.  
If I let her step into the court, it's going to be too tough for me.   So I need to hit hard.   My serve will be an important factor.   As I said, the best percentage of winners over unforced errors will win.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel fresh now for the upcoming season?  
MARION BARTOLI:   Well, I'm going to play Cincinnati, New Haven, and the US Open.   I feel ready right now, but of course the truth happens on the court.  
Anyway, I feel I have charged my batteries, I'm full of energy, and I hope I will do well this year in the US Open because the past two or three years have been a catastrophe for me there, so I really hope to do better this year.  
Last year I had a good month of May, and June, also, but after that I was a bit tired.   So I had a tough time at the US Open.   So I really hope to do well this year in the US Open.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT