MERCURY INSURANCE OPEN
July 21, 2012
Marion Bartoli
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. BARTOLI/ Y. Chan
  1‑6, 6‑3, 6‑3

Q.   So how is your hip feeling right now?   Obviously you've been struggling with it a little bit, so how is your hip feeling?
MARION BARTOLI:   My hip was fine.   It was just my ankle that was really bothering me at the beginning, and the doctor gave me some anti‑inflammatories before the match started, and it took 45 minutes before the anti‑inflammatories started to kick in, and I was feeling a lot better in the second and the third set, but obviously maybe a bit of fatigue from yesterday's match when I finished really late, and she was also playing very well in the first set, so maybe the combination of the two make the first set 6‑1 to her.
But I really thought I had some chances.   Even though it was 6‑1, it was some tough games, so I tried to really stay focused and positive and I'm glad I was able to turn it around.

Q.   Do you have any predictions for how it'll feel tomorrow?   Have you put any thought to that?
MARION BARTOLI:   Well, I am doing all the recovery now, and obviously I'm very professional about that, about all the stretch and everything.   So I'm going to take care of my body and recover the best that I can, and I'm a Top 10 player, so there's many years I've been on the tour, and obviously I know what it takes to win a tournament.   And I will try my hardest tomorrow to win it.

Q.   What do you think the turning point was tonight?   What were your keys to winning that match?
MARION BARTOLI:   I think I started to hit the ball harder, but also I gave myself a bit more room in the return of serve.   At first I stayed a bit back, and then I was moving forward into the ball, and I think when I was able to break her in the beginning of the second set she started to feel not that confident, because before I was really struggling with her serve, so I gave myself a bit more margin and hit through the ball, and I started to serve better, obviously, but my ankle was really bothering me in the first set for my serve.   So that's also one of the reasons.   But I stayed really focused and positive and also my mental toughness helped me to go through.

Q.   And you said in your post‑match interview that Dominika is one of your best friends on the tour.   Talk a little bit about that match and both the mental and the physical aspects that you'll have to overcome tomorrow. 
MARION BARTOLI:   Yeah.   We love to practice with each other.   We practice many times.   We are best friends since so many years now, and obviously we have been supporting each other through the tough times.   We have both of us in our career, and obviously it's a final, so we're going to try our best each other to win, but I think we are very professional and it's great in a way to play against your best friend, because even if you lose, you are happy for her, but honestly I am trying to focus on my game and play as best as I can. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT