MERCURY INSURANCE OPEN
July 18, 2012
Marion Bartoli
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. BARTOLI/V. King
  6‑4, 5‑7, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions.  
   
 Q.   What was the injury?  
MARION BARTOLI:   I felt my hip was hurting me middle of the second set.   I really tried to keep the pain away and try to not think about it.  
Obviously it came to a point where I had really a lot of problems serving.   I really needed some help from the trainer to give me some support and try to move my back, because I was really having some back problem and it was going through the hip.   
   
 Q.   It was the left hip?   
MARION BARTOLI:   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   So when you were trying to serve you couldn't push off on your leg?  
MARION BARTOLI:   Yeah.   I was trying to push on it, and the more I was trying the tireder I was getting.   I really felt I was losing my rhythm in my arm and still trying to push off the ground.   
Obviously it was getting worse and worse and worse, and then I started to hit too much volley.   So I really felt like I need to get some help and try to go through.  
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
MARION BARTOLI:   Yes.   It's really start to‑‑ it was kind of cloudy, graduating pain what I felt.   I thought, Okay, the end the first set started to feel it but was able to go through it.   And then the second set we had some tough rallies, and the more she was moving side to side the more I was feeling it.   
Then it comes to a point where the pain really start to kill my motion on the serve.   So I was still trying to push on the legs but it was hurting me a lot.   And then it affected me on my baseline game as well.  
So obviously Vania also had some trouble on her leg with maybe her adductor or something.  
   
 Q.   Uh‑huh.  
MARION BARTOLI:   So obviously it's a very hard surface.   Playing three hours is not really helping, but I think it was a great fight from both of us and we tried our best.  
   
 Q.   How did you turn it around at the end there?   How much was the timeout, getting it checked out, or maybe calming your mind a little bit?  
MARION BARTOLI:   Yeah, well, I don't know really, honestly.   I had so many chances in second set when I was leading 3‑Love.   I had I think 30‑40 on Vania's serve to get to 4‑Love.   
Then when she won that second set, I really felt it was going to be a tough battle towards the end.   I think the key game was at 4‑2 down when I managed to hold my serve and I was 15‑40 having some break points against to defend.   When I was able to maybe hold that game and then get the help from the trainer, I was in a better rhythm.  
But, you know, at 4‑All, this game took forever.   I think I served for 10 minutes in row or something.   Obviously we are playing night match, but both of us work so much.   It was really a tough physical battle out there.  
   
 Q.   Marion, you usually don't double fault that much.   16 double faults is a lot for you.   
MARION BARTOLI:   18.  
   
 Q.   18.   That could be a record for you, no?  
MARION BARTOLI:   Yeah, probably.   But the thing is, still I win this match with 18 double faults.   I really don't know why it's happening.   I don't know if it's coming from my (indiscernible) and it's hurting my whole motion.  
I don't know, maybe I'm not jumping as high as I'm able to do when I'm on my best.   I don't know what's going on, but obviously my serve was not a weapon tonight, that's for sure.  
But when you're going through those kind of patches you have to find a way somehow.   I think I'm pretty proud of myself to be able to fight and find a way ever if 18 double faults, which is a lot.   
But I still find a way to win.   This is obviously a good sign for me.  
   
 Q.   Are you optimistic you'll be healthy enough tomorrow?  
MARION BARTOLI:   Well, it's good I have a day off tomorrow and I will be able to rest and have a good work on it from the physio and get my whole body loose and relaxed.  
I have more than 24 hours, so it's great I have a day off, that's for sure.   But I will have to figure out why my serve is not on right now.   I lost to Vania in the past, and I think it was kind of a great effort to still be able to win the match after three hours of play with 18 double faults.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT