AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 22, 2012
Marion Bartoli
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







T. PASZEK/M. Bartoli
  4‑6, 7‑5, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   First of all, how is the leg?
MARION BARTOLI:   How is the leg? 
I think it was just, you know, from compensating so much to reach up, or every ball I was supposed to lay in one place ended up landing three meters outside. 
It was a nightmare to play in these conditions, honestly.   Yeah, it just got really pretty tight and then tired, but I think in two or three days it will just be back to normal.

Q.   How was she able to come back so well against you?
MARION BARTOLI:   I don't know.   I felt like I got chances in pretty much every single game and ended up losing them.
But, you know, in those kind of conditions, even if I was leading, you never felt comfortable.   I mean, I was supposed to switching at 4‑1 with the wind for me, and then the wind start to completely go the other way around, so Tami had the wind for her for two games, which obviously was normally not the case. 
She came back at 4‑3.   And then I get the wind again against me, so she came back at 5‑4, and it was... 
I really tried my hardest, but in those kind of conditions, when you're supposed to serve in one spot and the ball is going two meters outside of it‑‑ I mean, I didn't make one ace today where yesterday I served 10 or 12 aces.   It's kind of really leveling the level when you have those kind of conditions.

Q.   How disappointing is it for you to have got this far and not to be in the final tomorrow?
MARION BARTOLI:   Well, I have lost the match, so I can't really say I'm happy about it, but on the other hand, I really felt like I tried my hardest and there is not much I could have done better or try harder.
So maybe next time it wouldn't be that windy, but, you know, on the other hand Tamira played really well.   She deserved to win.   She really fight hard and came back to win the match.
So of course I'm disappointed, but I really try my hardest out there.

Q.   On a positive note, though, this must give you a lot of confidence going into Wimbledon next week. 
MARION BARTOLI:   Yeah, I felt like I played three really good matches level‑wise, and then today was more the mental focus and try hard, which is always helping for a Grand Slam.
So I will try to get some few days off, get some energy back, and carry on for Wimbledon.

Q.   How hard is it to keep your focus in conditions like that when you're having to set yourself two or three times for one serve?
MARION BARTOLI:   Yeah, I felt like I played three matches in one.   I mean, you have to wait until kind of the wind goes down a little bit, and by the time you think it goes down, it goes up again (smiling.)
So sometimes I was tossing the ball and the ball went two meters behind me.   So it's kind of hard to serve well in those conditions.   And then Tamira had the same problem with her toss, as well, so you're kind of waiting with the return of serve.   It makes it really hard for both players.
But, you know, obviously it's not raining, so you have to play in this condition and try your best.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT