AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 20, 2012
Marion Bartoli
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. BARTOLI/A. Wozniak
  6‑2, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   That was a pretty comfortable match for you, wasn't it?
MARION BARTOLI:   Yeah, well, I think I really played well, first of all.   So I made it easy for me, because I played extremely well.   I was feeling my shot very good from the baseline.   I was hitting the ball very hard.
That was probably one of the best matches I played on grass overall.   I mean, I played some great ones last year, but I think it's at the same level. 
This is a very good performance for me.   Hopefully I will be able to keep it this way.   But it was a very good one.

Q.   Do you think it was better than the performance last year during the final?
MARION BARTOLI:   No, my final was very good.   Especially, it was so windy.   I think both of us, Petra and I, played some great tennis under the circumstances, because when it's windy like that, especially on grass, it's very hard to play. 
I think we were both playing very good.   I mean, she went on to the Championship at Wimbledon, so she was playing some great tennis.
But I think, for me, as it stands, it's one of the, yeah, the good match I play on grass overall.   So I think last year I play very well, as well.   So I stayed the same standard.

Q.   The Wimbledon seeds came out today.   For the men they apply a pretty strict equation to kind of reseed.   For the women it's a little bit more arbitrary.   There isn't an actual formula.   Would you like to see ‑‑for example, last year you did well here.   That isn't necessarily taken into account for the seedings this year. 
MARION BARTOLI:   Well, I don't know.   I will see how it goes.   We see if I'm top 8 seed or not.   But, I mean, I'm sure ‑‑ they always take the right decision, so I'm sure it will be fair for everyone.
Hopefully Venus will be seeded.   (Smiling.)

Q.   She's not. 
MARION BARTOLI:   She's not?   Okay.   So I didn't know it was out today, so I did not look at it at all.

Q.   Neither Venus nor Clijsters is seeded this year. 
MARION BARTOLI:   Well, Kim is different on grass.   She didn't have the same results.   But for Venus unseeded is a bit hard (smiling). 
I hope she's not going to draw Serena first round, because I'm sure she's going to come out to the chairman and say, Maybe you should have put me seeded player.   But we will see how the draw is coming out.
For sure, if Venus is unseeded, the draw is going to be hard for someone who draw her first round, second round.

Q.   You hope it's not you, or is that a big challenge for you?
MARION BARTOLI:   Well, love the challenges, but I hope not too early.

Q.   In recent years the Grand Slam winners have been getting a bit older in age.   Does that give you hope that you can go to an event like Wimbledon next week and really contend?
MARION BARTOLI:   Yes.   Well, the thing is I always believed I could win a Grand Slam in some years, but I was in the final, I was 22 years old, and I was quite young.
So, I mean, I'm not feeling because the other players were quite old winning at Grand Slams is going to happen to me.   I feel like if I'm keeping improving and keeping working out, I will have a chance.   But of course that is coming with the years, as well, because you get more experience.
So I think if I'm keeping the same way every day on the practice courts and keeping the same intensity on the court, I will have a shot one day or the other.
But I have to make sure I'm putting the effort every day to give me the chance to do that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT