AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 19, 2012
Marion Bartoli
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. BARTOLI/S. Cirstea
  6‑2, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   This is a serious question:   Why are you winning and the other top players are not?
MARION BARTOLI:   Gosh, if I had the answer to that... (Smiling.)
You know, tennis now in the women's game especially it's very difficult, and a lot of players are playing some great tennis.   Every single match is very difficult to win. 
It shows just the level and the difference between top players and someone ranked lower, it's very tiny.   That's why you get three upsets today. 
But, you know, it's very difficult for everyone just to win matches and to go through, especially for the top players.   All the players feel they have nothing to lose every time they play against a top player, so they're kind of bringing the best game they have.   You're facing that every week.   Sometimes you go through   sometimes just fine.

Q.   You don't seem to have any difficulty adapting and changing to grass. 
MARION BARTOLI:   Well, I wish every tournament would be on grass.   It would be good for me. 
It's a surface that I really like, and I feel like straightaway my game is really working every time just stepping on the grass.   So it's a lot easier for me of course than clay court.   But I still managed last year to play well on clay court, so obviously next year I will try to do better than I did this year. 
You know, the clay court season is over, and I just need to focus now on grass and further on through the season.

Q.   With the top three seeds out, do you feel you have an even better chance of defending your title?
MARION BARTOLI:   Well, as I said before, the level is so high now and the margin is so tiny that you can't say just because I'm the highest‑ranked player left I'm going to win.   It's not working that way.
So I know every single match is going to get tougher and tougher, and what I know, I will try my absolute best to win every single one of them, but my opponents are not going to be there to giving me victories, so I will have really to be focused and to earn them.

Q.   A lot of the top players are going to be going into Wimbledon with little match practice on the grass.   How important do you think it is to have those competitive matches before Wimbledon?
MARION BARTOLI:   Well, I think it's really depending on every single player.   There is a lot of examples of players losing very early here and going all the way in Wimbledon or to the final of Wimbledon, which is obviously an amazing result.
So the grass court season is so short that it's really hard to play a lot of matches on that surface.   So, you know, anyway for everyone it's a matter of two, three, maybe the best four matches before going in.
But for those top players, if they are able to go through the first two or three rounds, then they will find their rhythm and play better into the second week. 
Serena and Venus didn't play one matches on grass, and I'm sure they will be a contender to win the title.   So there is not really any rule. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT