BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 15, 2012
Marion Bartoli
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. IVANOVIC/M. Bartoli
  6‑3, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
   
 Q.   Sorry to hear you're not feeling well.   Can you just tell me a bit about what happened in the match?   
MARION BARTOLI:   Yeah, I think I start to not feel well since yesterday night, and when I woke up this morning I knew I was not in great shape.   But I give it a try on the court.  
I think more the match was going on the worse it was getting for me and I was feeling extremely dizzy on the court and I don't see very clearly.   You know, I think I get the virus that a lot of player got in here.  
So it's very unfortunate, but there is nothing I can do about it.   It's basically a matter of a chance of getting it or not getting it.   
Obviously it hit me.  
   
 Q.   Do you have a temperature right now?  
MARION BARTOLI:   Well, when I went on the court, I was, you know, very dizzy and it was very hard for me to catch my breath.   Even though we didn't have very long rallies, I was feeling really out of breath and short of breath.  
And then I was having a lot of joint pains and feeling shaky and very cold.   It was quite hot, so I knew I was not in a good shape.  
I just tried my hardest and under the circumstances and tried to do not retire during the match and still show everyone that I could complete the match.   Even though I lost it, I just felt like I needed to stay there until the end.  
   
 Q.   After having such a good tournament here and great results again at Indian Wells, it must be a frustrating way for it to end.   
MARION BARTOLI:   Yeah, it is frustrating, because it's not really one of my mistakes.   I didn't eat something bad or do something bad on my side.   It was just very unlucky, and obviously it hit me at the end of the tournament, which is better than hit me at the beginning of the tournament.   
But I wish I had a better immune system or something to do not get it.   But it's the way it is.   And as you say, I still make the quarterfinal which is positive, and try to recover before Miami.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT