QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 18, 2012
Marion Bartoli
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. STOSUR/M. Bartoli
  6‑3, 0‑0 (Ret.)

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Sorry to have to talk to you on this occasion, but maybe you could talk about what happened.   It looked like you hit a backhand, and then maybe talk about what happened and how you feel having to pull out and how serious the injury is. 
MARION BARTOLI:   Well, actually it started yesterday during the match against Lucie.   In the third set I really felt like my right calf was starting to cramp, and I really had to make sure I finished that third set very quickly, because I was really feeling the cramp coming in on the calf.
I had a lot of treatment yesterday after the match.   Today when I started to warm up, I still felt it.   So I knew I was not 100% going to the match.   That was for sure.
Then I couldn't put any weight on it, so it really was hurting me on my serve and on every movement when I was having to change direction and push from the feet.
So I think it was really good decision to take, because the more I was playing, the tighter it was getting.   I knew if I was keeping pushing on it, I would really strain it really badly, because when your muscle is so tight, that's what's happening.
So I played a lot of tennis, and I'm just not a machine.   So somehow my body just couldn't do anymore.

Q.   Do you think that the fact that you went into the finals in Paris, just like you said, you have been playing pretty regularly, so just your body needs a break, basically?
MARION BARTOLI:   Yeah.   Well, you know, it show up like that.   I was mentally ready for the fight, but just not physically 100%, for sure.
But, you know, I was feeling that way because I won a lot of matches.   In a way, this is a good problem, because that's happening because I made the final in Paris and the semifinal in here. 
Yes, the travel, the change of coming from indoor to outdoor and the tough matches I had to play all together makes it extremely tough to cope with it.
So that's how it shows, and obviously I just have to take a bit of a break and see how it goes. 

Q.   Will you be playing in Dubai, or have you made that decision?
MARION BARTOLI:   Well, I have some couple days off.   It felt like I didn't have any days off till right now, and that will definitely help me to recover and see how my leg is doing.   I'm just gonna fly there and take as much rest as possible and see how I'm going.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT