AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 21, 2012
Marion Bartoli
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. ZHENG/M. Bartoli
  6‑3, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Talk about what happened out there today. 
MARION BARTOLI:   I makes a lot of things.   She played extremely well, first of all.   I really thought that I was under pressure right away.   I never get a grip on the match. 
She was either doing the mistakes or hitting winners, but I never had really the chance to step up and dictate.   That's pretty unusual. 
I think either my ball was not going fast enough or she was extremely fast.   I don't know what was going on.   But I really felt I couldn't penetrate and I couldn't hit winners, which usually I can do quite easily. 
So she was just much better than me today on the court and she deserved to win.

Q.   Was it her speed or the angles she was getting?
MARION BARTOLI:   Yeah, the feeling that I got was really I couldn't hurt her.   I mean, she was hurting me all the time with either her forehand cross‑court or the speed she was having on her legs moving side to side. 
But I never felt like I was hitting hard enough to really push her back and me be inside the court.   I was taking, I felt, too much risk to go for a lot more than usually what I felt on the court. 
I really committed too many unforced errors.   It was really due to the way I was feeling on the court today.

Q.   This obviously isn't the Australian Open you wanted.   You've been down here a long time in Australia training.   You seemed happy with your form before in Perth and Sydney.   How do you rate this month as a whole for you?
MARION BARTOLI:   No, I think overall I really did my best every day and I couldn't train harder, I couldn't do more.   So I really can't feel really disappointed because I just put everything I got out there every day. 
It's not like I came here under‑prepared and got the result from it.   I really try my hardest.   In the end of it, she just play better than me today.   Maybe if I had played against another opponent, I would not felt the same way.   But it was just the case today. 
So I just have to come back to Europe now and practice hard and start a new tournament again. 

Q.   Does this make the loss easier to accept, that she played so well today? 
MARION BARTOLI:   Well, it's not really easy to accept a loss.   But the thing is I couldn't prepare much than what I did and I couldn't do more.   So it's not like I've been lacking of practice or lacking of implication.   So there is not much I could do in extra. 

Q.   Is there any advice you would give her future opponents?   If she keeps playing the way she is, is she unbeatable?
MARION BARTOLI:   You know, in tennis the thing is one day you can play extremely well and the next day you can be poor.   It's extremely hard to predict. 
If Jie Zheng keep playing the same way, I think it will hard for her opponent.   If she doesn't, maybe my ball also make her play very good.   It's very difficult to predict anything. 
I think Sara Errani is playing different than me, she's playing with a lot more spin, topspin, under‑spin.   It might be a different type of game. 

Q.   You mentioned Errani.   How much had you looked ahead in your draw?
MARION BARTOLI:   Actually, I just saw the result now in the locker room before coming in.   I didn't really look at the draw at all.   I knew I was playing Zheng Jie today, and that was it. 
You can look at a ranking or an opponent or whatever.   Doesn't make you play better or make you worse.   I mean, it's just you have to play against an opponent try to beat her, no matter what is her ranking, what is her name.   Today Zheng Jie just play too good for me. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT