AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 17, 2012
Marion Bartoli
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. BARTOLI/V. Razzano
  7‑5, 6‑0 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   How did you feel about your form today?   Got off to a slower start, then really dominated in the second set.   
MARION BARTOLI:   Yeah, that's for sure.   That was a slow start.   But the first round in a Grand Slam is never easy.   It was pretty windy out there.   
Just had to stay calm out there and try to find a way to play better.   Obviously the second set, start to really make some improvement to my game, especially on the serve.   Overall I think second set was great.   I hope to just keep it the same way for the next match.   
   
 Q.   You seemed to be distracted by something in the stands near the end of the first set.   
MARION BARTOLI:   No, not really.   Not me.   I was fine.   I was just focused on what I had to do, but not disturbed by anything.   
   
 Q.   Is there any added pressure for you playing another French player?  
MARION BARTOLI:   Not really.   It's much because it's the first Grand Slam of the year and obviously I want to do well.   
It was also pretty hard for me with what happened last year, my injury and everything.   I really had to put that on the side and try to remain positive.   But obviously was still there in my mind.   That was the main thing for me today.   
Virginie played very well the first set, as well.   All credit to her.   She's playing very flat.   She caused me some problem in the past.   She beat me a lot of times and it was not easy.   But obviously all the improvement I've done during the off‑season and my physical training really show up in the second set.   
I was really, I think, fitter than her.   
   
 Q.   So you think it was emotional to come back after the injury that happened last year?  
MARION BARTOLI:   Yes.   Especially the way the injury happened.   I was leading 5‑Love in the first set, and all of a sudden ‑‑ I knew, even though I won that match, I wouldn't be able to play the next one.   Came back at home for 20 hours plane ride wasn't fun.   
Obviously it's happening.   I just had to put that on the side of my mind and not too much think about it.   
But it was still there for a bit.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT