AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 18, 2011
Marion Bartoli
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. BARTOLI/P. Kvitova
  6-1, 4-6, 7-5

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. How does it feel to win again? You have had a lot of near misses. 
 MARION BARTOLI: Yeah. Well, I had a great start of the season, honestly, best I ever had. I was pleased with my results. But of course coming here with a title, especially here it was extremely tough. I think we were 7 out of the top 10 players plus Venus and Serena Williams. So it was definitely a very hard task to win the tournament.
 So it's great just to come up with a win. But, you know, it was a huge challenge again today.

 Q. You had to fight really hard for that, didn't you?
 MARION BARTOLI: Yeah. Playing two matches back to back in the same day, I was not used to that anymore. It reminds me of my junior time when we had to play two matches a day.
 But, you know, I think it was an entertaining match even if I had the lead the second set, I could close it out, but Petra start to play very well. 
 She was hitting the ball very hard and very deep, so she had all the credit to coming back. Then at the end it was just fighting and trying to find a way to win.

 Q. How is your thigh?
 MARION BARTOLI: It was more the hamstrings, but I think because of the wind, you know, I land funny on my side. I thought the ball would be coming much more towards me. At the end, the ball stops so I have to go to the ball, and I think I just -- my muscles start to get tight and stretch a little bit.
 So I think I just stretch it a little bit too much on this ball. After, with the tape and the support I receive with the tape, it was better.
 Now I have two days off, so I'm definitely gonna be okay for Wimbledon, 100% sure.

 Q. The wind was worrying you a lot, wasn't it, in your matches out there? Did you find it was a real worry, the wind?
 MARION BARTOLI: Not worried. You know, when you play a match it happens. Sometimes you're leading and your opponent keeps coming back; sometimes you're losing and you're coming back. 
 My first-round match I had match point against me, and I ended up winning the match and winning the tournament. 
 So, I mean, it's like this. Especially on a day like that when it's extremely windy, you can have the wind against you and then all of a sudden your opponent has a lot more power into her shots and it happens. 
 So I was not worried. I was just trying my best out there. Of course I would have been happier to finish in two sets, but Petra fought extremely well, and she deserved to come back. It could have gone either way, and in the end it went my way.

 Q. Stosur said it was the worst conditions she had ever played in. What did you find really bad out there?
 MARION BARTOLI: Well, of course it was difficult. But I think it's the same for both players. At the end, on my opinion, I'm trying not to get too complaining too much about the conditions, because otherwise I can't focus on my game.
 So they are there. There is nothing I can do against it. I just have to deal with it. Of course it was tough. I can't say it was easy. Definitely was very tough to play in those conditions, but you have to try your best. I just try.

 Q. What do you feel this does for your Wimbledon prospects?
 MARION BARTOLI: Well, you know what? I'm too tired to think about anything right now. I just think I have to pack my suitcase and drive tonight towards Wimbledon. My mom is waiting for me to with a nice dinner. That's the only thing I want to think about. 

 Q. It is a more open year for women, people are saying. Would you agree with that?
 MARION BARTOLI: Well, I have been hearing that every single Grand Slam or every single tournament since the beginning of the year, so, you know, I think it's great to see some new faces. For example, Li Na from China winning the French Open has been the first woman ever from China to win a Grand Slam.
 So it brought some new faces in the first place and to win Grand Slam, so I think it's great. But I think everyone is extremely difficult to play against.
 Again, my first-round match I had the match point against me. So you have to be really careful for every single match and not thinking too much of winning in Wimbledon right away just because I won there.
 So I know my first-round match in Wimbledon is going to be a new challenge and another start, and I have to be extremely careful with my two days that I have now off to take some rest and get ready again and be mentally focused.

 Q. How does this tough wind compare to others you have had?
 MARION BARTOLI: Well, it reminds me a little bit the one I had in Stanford in 2009 where also the draw were extremely tough. I had to beat back to back Jelena Jankovic who was top 10 at this time, Sam Stosur in the semis, and Venus Williams in the finals. 
 So the draw was also extremely tough at this time, and the match in the final were lasting for more than three hours or something like that.
 So it really reminds me this kind of tournament. But after that I took one week off and I rest. So now I have a Grand Slam that's coming up. It's another story. 
 But I think since two years I really improve physically, as well. I'm going to have 48 hours to really relax and get ready again. 

 Q. Is grass your favorite surface, or can you explain why you play so well on it?
 MARION BARTOLI: Well, I can't say now I play really bad on clay because I just made the semifinal of a Grand Slam. But, you know, I think playing flat and early really helps on grass because obviously it's tougher to defend. But now I can enough enjoy on every surface. 

 Q. How did you enjoy Eastbourne this week?
 MARION BARTOLI: Well, I always love to come back to Eastbourne, even sometimes I was not winning the title. It has been my -- I have been in the semifinal for four years in a row, and this year I got the title.
 So I always love to come back here. I think we had some great matches, and it's very good preparation before Wimbledon. The courts are great. Of course it's windy, but then when you get in Wimbledon, it's not windy, I think it makes it a lot easier. 
 I really love to come back here. Obviously this year it works out well for me.

 Q. Did you try the fish and chips?
 MARION BARTOLI: Did I try the fish and chips? No, that's not good for my diet, I guess. (Laughter.)
 No, I have been sticking to -- no, I tried -- well, one day it was sunny, I think it was Tuesday, I got an ice cream. It was the only day it was sunny. (Laughter.)
But I'm gonna celebrate this time with something a bit special because I got the title. Yeah, I think I played two matches today so I deserve a bit of something.

 Q. Do you know what that something is?
 MARION BARTOLI: I'm sure I'm gonna find out. Don't worry for that. Anything will work, I think. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT