WIMBLEDON
June 25, 2010
Marion Bartoli
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. BARTOLI/G. Arn
  6-3, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. How do you think you played today? 
 MARION BARTOLI: Well, I think I played pretty consistent. You know, I had a walkover in the second round, so it was not easy to come back the court. Feels like -- I have three days off in a row, and it feels almost like another tournament was starting.
 I just stayed focused. She had some really good stroke on the breakpoint. The second set I thought I could win the second set at 6-2 or 6-1. I mean, not that close at 6-4, but she came up with some great shot. I just stayed focused towards the end.

 Q. Any parts of your game that you particularly want to work ongoing forward? 
 MARION BARTOLI: Well, I think there is not too much to improve. I think it's just a little bit sometimes on the return of serve I could do better.
 But my serve was very good today. My groundstroke is pretty good as well. So I think maybe the return of serve. Sometimes I can return better than this. 

 Q. And you've done well here before. What do you need as a player to do well at Wimbledon? 
 MARION BARTOLI: Oh, my gosh. There is not really like a miracle key or something. First of all, you have to feel comfortable on grass, and then it's a matter of luck. Also sometimes a little bit you have to have some quite easy match in the first week so save some energy for the second one.
 Grass is a very tough surface. You have to be so focused all the time. The scoreboard can change very quickly. So I think you have to be really focused and it's in the head.

 Q. My last question: Can you make the final? 
 MARION BARTOLI: Well, I made it once already, so that's already... 

 Q. That's why I'm asking. 
 MARION BARTOLI: I think I will pretty much have a chance every year I will play this. 

 Q. There is some strapping on your hand. What is that?
 MARION BARTOLI: Yeah, I am having that since six years, so it's not new. Yeah, I had pretty bad hematoma on my finger six years ago during the summer in the U.S. 
 I was playing a lot of the matches, and I was playing with a racquet a that was bit too heavy for me and my finger was damage, so I had to play the US Open with a glove. It was really difficult to feel anything. 
 From then, I have to always put a tape on my finger if I want to play tennis. It's just too painful if I'm just going on the court and take the racquet like that.

 Q. The the next round looks like an unseeded opponent, and after that possibly could be Venus. How do you feel about that? 
 MARION BARTOLI: Well, I just want to focus first of all on the next one. Every match is difficult to win, no matter what is the opponent at other side of your net and what's her ranking is.
 But if I'm winning and I have to play against Venus, it will be a great match to look forward to. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT