WIMBLEDON
June 21, 2010
Marion Bartoli
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. BARTOLI/J. Goerges
  6-4, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. What are your thoughts on what's taken place with the French team in the World Cup? If you've already addressed this in French, I apologize. 
 MARION BARTOLI: I think here it's Wimbledon, it's the tennis, and I don't really want to speak about soccer. But, you know, I can't do anything about it obviously. I'm just trying to focus on my tennis. 
 I'm sad that they lost because I'm a huge soccer fan and I watch every single match, but what can I do? I mean, I can't react to it. It's not what I'm supposed to do. I mean, I read like you did probably, but I can't say who is right, who is wrong, what happened. 
 I know I can sometimes think like that, I want say some stuff like that. Also, sometimes when you are very nervous or when you get very tight or whatever you can have some bad words. You're maybe sometimes thinking too and not saying loudly, but sometimes it can just happen.

 Q. Do you have any reaction to the government getting involved with the situation with the team? 
 MARION BARTOLI: Again, I mean, if Mr. Sarkozy wants to say something, it's his right to do so. But I think he has also sometimes been not very nice against everyone, so...
 You know, I think in every situation, everyone can sometimes just fell apart and say some bad words. But I don't think Nicolas Anelka is a bad guy. I think it was just the situation and being frustrated and being upset with maybe the way he was playing and don't feel good in this team. 
 You know, sometimes it can just happen. I mean, you don't have to judge all the time. Everyone said, Oh, this is not the thing to do or this is bad, this is right to do. I think I'm just saying that everyone sometime can just blow away. It just can happen. 
 I'm trying not to judge anyone. I'm trying to judge myself, but not judging anyone. I think it's a good start in life. I mean, you can judge yourself, but I don't think it's a good thing to judge the other one, because you don't know what they are feeling, what they are going through, whatever.

 Q. Is there a greeting or message you would like to send to the players of the French team?
 MARION BARTOLI: You know, I'm a sportsperson, so I know what they're feeling obviously, because it's very tough when you're playing for your country and you don't play well and you want to do well and you're disappointed because -- you're disappointed for yourself and you're disappointed for your country.
 Soccer in France is huge, especially since '98 and we are the world champions. Everyone is following, and I think they're very sad that they lost. There is still one match to play, so I think if they are winning by, I think by 4 goals against South Africa, and if the other team is not doing tie I think they have a chance to qualify. 
 So obviously it's not over. Maybe this kind of electric shock will help them to just get all the pressure outside and just go ahead and play. I think they are some terrific players. They play all the year inside some of the top international clubs all over Europe. They compete and they do very well. 
 Nicolas Anelka is maybe top 2 in Chelsea after Drogba, so I think they just have all the talent in the world. It's just a matter of showing it at the right time. 
 And as a sportsperson, I can understand sometimes when want to do well and you can't achieve it and it's very frustrating. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT