ROGERS CUP WOMEN
August 7, 2013
Marion Bartoli
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. BARTOLI/L. Davis
  6‑0, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   You took some time off after Wimbledon, and obviously this is your first match back.   Were you surprised how well you played today?
MARION BARTOLI:   Yeah, I was surprised that I start so well, honestly.   I mean, I didn't play on the hard court since Monterrey in Mexico, which I believe was the beginning of April.   I played Fed Cup, but it was indoor, not even outdoor, so I didn't want to put too much pressure on myself, because the last two times I play in Toronto, I lost first round. 
So I just wanted to enjoy myself on the court and try my hardest.   Obviously being able to win 6‑0, 6‑3 was pretty good for me.   I think I played well, and I'm very pleased with the way I handled everything.

Q.   You missed some time of course with the injury.   How is the hamstring?
MARION BARTOLI:   My hamstring is getting better and better.   I just need to take care of it every day, obviously.   I was able to work with my physio back home and doing some rehabilitation and some strength work on it so it gets stronger. 
But obviously, you know, the summer season is a grueling season.   You have to be really fit and ready.
I'm just working on a daily basis to make sure I'm getting stronger and stronger on it so I don't feel the same pain as I did in Wimbledon.

Q.   What are you planning to do different in your next match?   How are you thinking to approach the next match?
MARION BARTOLI:   Well, I think playing some more matches I will get more rhythm, obviously.   I feel my serve in the first set was really good, and in the second I start to make a few double faults I shouldn't have done. 
But overall I think it was a pretty good, solid performance.   I will try to cut out some few mistakes in my next match as I did in the beginning of the second set.   I never played against Lauren before, and I think overall I did pretty well considering the amount of pressure I was under, you know, being the Wimbledon champion and have to step on the court in a tournament where I lost first round the last two times I played.
So I think regarding all of this, I deal with it pretty well, and I'm pretty pleased with the way I handle everything, honestly.

Q.   Tomorrow and on Friday they are doing some exhibition matches here with some of the first‑round losers from the men's tournament. 
MARION BARTOLI:   But I'm looking forward to see Pete Sampras play, actually.

Q.   I'm wondering, beyond Pete Sampras, what do you think of that idea bringing men here to the women's tour?   Is that a good thing, or does that detract from the women's game?
MARION BARTOLI:   I was talking about it with Karl, the tournament director, at the beginning of the week, and I think it's a great idea that obviously we ‑‑it's almost like a combined event, you know, between Toronto and Montreal. 
Obviously we want for the fans to have the chance to see both players, like in Cincinnati, for example, when they have really the men and women in one place.
So I think it's a very interesting idea, and we will see what the men feel about it coming from Montreal to Toronto to play some matches.   But I think it's great for the fans to have the chance to see men's tennis, women's tennis.
I think it's a good mix.   I'm looking forward to see some in action, yes.

Q.   Do you think women should also play then?
MARION BARTOLI:   In Montreal?   Yeah, I think it would be a great idea.   I think for the fans it's very interesting.   Why not playing some mixed doubles even?   I think that would be fun, as well.
But, you know, obviously tennis right now is pretty huge overall, and when you see the incredible crowd we had, especially excitement over Andy Murray, I think it was huge.   So to be able to kind repeat that like doing a mini Grand Slam in some other city around the world, it's a great idea.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT