SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 29, 2010
Marion Bartoli
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. BARTOLI/S. Kuznetsova
  6-3, 6-0

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

 Q. This is your first quarters here since 2003. How does it feel?
 MARION BARTOLI: Yeah, it feels great, you know. I had a couple of bad years here.
 It was really tough for me, because I really love this tournament since I play Orange Bowl here when I was 16 years old. 
 Coming here and playing so badly last few years has been tough mentally. This year I just arrive bit earlier from Indian Wells right away here and practiced really a lot more than I used to to get used to the conditions, because it's just really tough to play here. 
 I think the work paid off.

 Q. Tough conditions today? Wind? The rain made it heavy?
 MARION BARTOLI: Yeah, it was really tough. I mean, especially first of all play in the Grandstand is already tougher than to play on the other court especially today. 
 I mean, you have all this wait. We were supposed to play, and 10 minutes before the court you're supposed to be on start to rain again. It was like 3:00 something when we get on court. 
 So I think it was really tough for both of us. I just play bit better today.

 Q. How much do you think her game was affected because of the shoulder issues that she was having?
 MARION BARTOLI: I don't know. 

 Q. Could you see... 
 MARION BARTOLI: Yeah, I think it was pretty tough. I don't know. I haven't seen her in the first set trying to hold her first serve or some things. 
 I was pretty surprised she called for a trainer, but I think she was hurt definitely. It's tough, because she's a great girl and she's nice. We used to practice together, so it was tough to be focused and play. 
 Sometimes you just have to get through those matches and think about the next one.

 Q. When did you used to practice together?
 MARION BARTOLI: When we were almost the same age, so we played under-16, under-18, and then go on tour and practice before the tournaments. We did not play so much against each other in matches, but we practice a lot.
 You know, of course in the practice she was not playing the same way. We practiced just here before the tournament start, so... 

 Q. You beat her for a junior title, right? 
 MARION BARTOLI: Yeah, in the US Open. It was like 10 years ago or something almost. It was a long, long time. 
 But she beat me here for the championship. The first time was to play the semifinal of the Orange Bowl, and she beat me.

 Q. You had a tough time this year so far. What's been the issue you've been dealing with?
 MARION BARTOLI: Well, I didn't really have a tough time. I mean, I play only three tournaments. I haven't done so badly. I know those --

 Q. (Indiscernible.)
 MARION BARTOLI: Well, it depends of which year you're looking for. I mean, 2008 I've been doing for six months and absolutely no results, and then do all the things in the second part of the year. 
 And then 2009 I been starting well in those first rounds in Indian Wells and Miami. So, I mean, I'm not disappointed with my results so far. It was just normal. 
 I didn't do perfectly but I didn't do badly, which was normal results. I get a better week this year. I'm just trying to stay positive each day and go on the court and practice as well as I could and just get on the court and play my tennis and see how it goes. 
 Obviously this week is working pretty well. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT