WESTERN & SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP WOMEN'S OPEN
August 10, 2009
Marion Bartoli
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







K. CLIJSTERS/M. Bartoli
  6-4, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. What did you expect from Kim going into that match, and did she do anything to surprise you?
 MARION BARTOLI: Well, it was very difficult to expect anything, because I haven't seen her play since two years. That was, I think, the reason why I didn't start well, because I just tried to figure out the way she was playing during those four games and I was forgetting to play myself.
 You know, two years after -- without playing a match is pretty amazing the level she has already right now. 

 Q. So did winning against Venus help you with this match today here in Cincinnati?
 MARION BARTOLI: Well, I think, you know, if I would play against Kim like two or three rounds after it would be different, because I would already have some matches and get the rhythm and see her play. I think the match would be different, and maybe the results as well.
 Again, going on this match without having any kind of tactics or anything to start with, it was so difficult. Maybe Kim has seen me play more often maybe on TV or whatever. I haven't seen her play in two years. I didn't know what to expect. The way she was serving, moving, hitting the ball, I didn't know at all anything. 
 By the time I tried to figure out the kind of tactics, I was already 4-All down. So it was just a really bad draw, I guess. 

 Q. Do you believe she can quickly become another top 5, top 10 player?
 MARION BARTOLI: Well, there is a lot of things to be a top 5 player. It's not a level on one match, first of all. You have to play the whole season and you have to be really fit during the whole season, which is very difficult because it's ten months long there's and a lot of travel. 
 It's just not about only the level. It's about other things you have to cope with. I guess the level of play, yes, it's inside the top 10 already. I can tell you that.
 But after there are so many reasons you can or can't be there. I can't really tell you how long or how many months it's gonna take her to be back.

 Q. Did you feel like a little bit emotionally different because it was maybe more tension because it was her comeback match? 
 MARION BARTOLI: Not really I feel any tension, because I'm used to playing some big matches against top players. So I didn't felt nervous or, yeah, against her. 
 The thing is I was so worried about the tactics to use that, again, I forget to play my game at the beginning. I was just looking so much for what she was doing and the way she was moving and hitting the ball on both sides I just forget to play.
 So to start a match at 4-Love down it's difficult, even if I came back. Again, I was 4-Love down because she was playing very well as well, so...

 Q. There was a special stroke of her that surprised you that's very good? 
 MARION BARTOLI: Yeah, well, I thought before she retired her forehand was weaker than the backhand, and I guess today it was the opposite. When I was putting her to be wide on the forehand she was coming up with some amazing shot on the forehand side.
 So I went to the backhand, and, you know, it was a little bit better. That surprised me a little bit. But the way she was moving and hitting the points and her physical strengths after two years without playing a match, it's just amazing. 
 Again, if I was playing against some weaker player at the beginning I would have some time to get the rhythm and some matches here maybe I would play better. 
 But for the first match she was already playing at the top 10 level, so I have to be there. Even if I tried to be there, I think the level of game was quite okay for a first-round match. Very difficult. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT