PILOT PEN TENNIS PRESENTED BY SCHICK
August 21, 2008
Marion Bartoli
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  C. WOZNIACKI/M. Bartoli  
6-4, 6-0  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
  
  Q. You've never beaten her. What do you think makes her so difficult for you?   
 MARION BARTOLI: Well, I think, you know, she's really a consistent player. She doesn't give you any points. You have to earn them all the time. Especially on a hard court, I think it's her best surface, she move really well. She was just playing better than me today, so...   
  
  Q. Anything in particular happen in the second set?  
 MARION BARTOLI: No, the games were really tight. Even if it was 6-0, each one went to advantage/deuce, advantage/deuce. I had some game points. She had some. She made them better than me. It was not like in 10 minutes 6-Love.   
 Yeah, some really tough games, even tougher than the first set. You know, sometimes you lose them. That was the case today. But I think it was tough until the end.   
  
  Q. How do you feel heading down to New York now? Are you feeling confident going into the Open?  
 MARION BARTOLI: Yeah, even if I lost today, I think I was playing pretty good, I mean, the same way I was playing in Stanford and Montréal. But, you know, she just play better than me today.   
 But I think I have no regrets to have. I mean, I try my best. She play better. That's it. I mean, it's not a big deal to do about it, obviously. I'm going to try to have the same level at the Open and we see how it goes.   
  
  Q. Does she remind you of anybody, her style of play?  
 MARION BARTOLI: Caroline, I think maybe a bit like Hingis, but a bit more powerful. I will say she's a great mover, but she see the ball very early like Martina. But she's able to have some better pace, especially on serve. Like Martina was serving a lot weaker than her.   
 But, you know, when you attack her, she give you some short ball. But as soon as you give her a short ball, she's able to turn right away to the attack. That's what was Martina doing as well. I think she's really reading the game really well. She have a good eyes and she see the ball really early which makes her doesn't make a lot of mistakes because she's always in advance on the ball, she's never late.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT