ROGERS CUP PRESENTED BY NATIONAL BANK
July 28, 2008
Marion Bartoli
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  M. BARTOLI/M. South  
6-3, 6-7, 6-0  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
  
  Q. In the second set you said you were sick. How difficult was that to play?   
 MARION BARTOLI: That's a great comment (smiling).   
 Well, you know, it was quite tough for me regarding the conditions, in the condition I was. I was not feeling good at all. All my legs were shaking. My arms were shaking by themself. I was feeling really dizzy. The doctor gave me some tablets to take and some products to take. It helped a lot in the third set, but it took a while for me to be able to feel a little better.   
 But after a while I just need to come up with the win no matter what it takes. I just need to hang it tough and just come up with the win at the end of the day.   
  
  Q. Will you be okay the rest of the week? Is it just one day?   
 MARION BARTOLI: Well, I have the advantage to travel with a private doctor (smiling). Hopefully he'll be able to give me some good advice to be ready for Wednesday.   
 But, you know, I'm a tough girl. I can go far.  
  
  Q. Have other players got this?  
 MARION BARTOLI: Yeah, the physios told us maybe 15 to 20 players have almost the same thing as me. So they ask us to really wash even more our hands, to didn't touch the same food as the other, didn't drink in the same water, to be really careful, because there is a virus going on, so...   
  
  Q. Is that just here or did that come from somewhere else? Did the players bring it with them from California or whatever?  
 MARION BARTOLI: I don't know. I have no idea. You know, it's something that happens. I guess it's maybe more in Montréal. I don't know.   
  
  Q. Are you looking forward to the opportunity to play Chakvetadze again so soon after winning?  
 MARION BARTOLI: Yeah, you know, it's always good to play against someone you have beat two weeks ago. But in tennis every match is different. I could beat her two weeks ago in two sets and I could lose to her, I mean, in two sets this week.   
 One match, it's a completely different story. If I want to win, I just need to produce some great tennis. And hopefully I will be able to do it. But, yes, it's a good opportunity for me to play her again.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT