U.S. OPEN
August 27, 2007
Marion Bartoli
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions. 

 Q.  How has anything changed for you since Wimbledon till now? 
 MARION BARTOLI:  Everything changed.  First of all, of course, my ranking.  Ranking changed a lot because you have usually some byes into the draw, you're getting later into the draw. 
 Of course, everybody knows me now.  I have to do more distraction outside of tennis.  I like it.  Otherwise I play really good.  I feel my tennis is really clicking together and I'm playing really well.  So this is the most important. 

 Q.  Have you been able to do anything enjoyable while in New York?  Opportunities you may not have had before? 
 MARION BARTOLI:  Usually I take those opportunities after the tournament.  When the tournament is finished, yes, I have some time off.  I'm really a shopping lover, so I have a lot of things to do in New York for this. 
 But, you know, I make it when the tournament is finished.  So I hope in two weeks for me now. 

 Q.  Are you doing anything interesting? 
 MARION BARTOLI:  I'm usually going to Time Square Garden, see one show, have some fun, go to the restaurants.  And, of course, do a lot of shopping. 

 Q.  Nice way to start a Grand Slam tournament. 
 MARION BARTOLI:  Yeah, of course, you know, I think she was a little scary maybe.  I don't know if she played the US Open before in the woman's draw.  When I was a wildcard, I was playing the French Open, I remember I was really scared every time I was playing on court. 
 I think she was the same today.  But, you know, she can hit the ball pretty well and she can serve hard, and I think my game was just right enough to beat her in an hour or so. 

 Q.  Talk about the way you feel about this environment at the US Open. 
 MARION BARTOLI:  The US Open, right way the first time I played it in '01 in the juniors, I won the juniors there.  I feel so great the first time I played there. 
 Each year it's happen something great to me, either in singles or in doubles here.  Something came out, came out always with a good result in singles or in doubles.  So I really love this, to play in those courts. 
 First of all, the surface is fast and I like it.  The atmosphere, you know, stay in Manhattan, you can quit a bit from tennis and then you're coming back, you turn it on again when you're in Flushing Meadows.  Those kind of breaks between the two, I like it also. 
 It's just a nice tournament for me to play and I really enjoy to be in New York. 

 Q.  Coming in off of a solid season, your own expectations of yourself in this tournament? 
 MARION BARTOLI:  My own expectation is to play the best as possible and to try to win one matches after the other one.  You cannot look too far into the draw.  Even Roger Federer doesn't know his second-round opponent. 
 You have to take it match after match, step after step.  If you win each match, you will go far.  But you cannot look far before to play the first matches. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT