PILOT PEN TENNIS PRESENTED BY SCHICK
August 23, 2007
Marion Bartoli
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  What do you think changed when you were up 4-0 to when she started getting those games?   
 MARION BARTOLI:  Well, I think on my side nothing change.  I think she just start to really play some unbelievable shots.  And even the rally was very tough, but she was coming with some really super shots on those long rallies.   
 So I think on my side nothing change, but she step it up with some first serve really hard and then doesn't make a lot of mistakes in the game and make me work very hard and move so well and defend so well.   
 I needed to come up with something unbelievable to win points, so I cannot make it on a regular basis.  And the first four games she wasn't hitting the ball as hard.  I was able to go more inside the court and dictate more the games, but afterward she just played too good I think.   
  
  Q.  You faced her four times this year already.   
 MARION BARTOLI:  Uh-huh.   
  
  Q.  Is there anything she did particularly well today that she didn't do well the first three times?   
 MARION BARTOLI:  I think the difference between her on clay and grass and on hard court is her movement.  On clay she struggle a lot more to move and to slide.   
 On grass with some bad bounce and also it's more difficult to move, she really struggled more on this side of her game.  I think her movement is the key of her game.  She is not hitting super hard but she moves very well.   
 I think on the hard courts you have to hit maybe five, six times like this from the lines to make points.  You don't need to hit like this on clay and grass courts.  So on hard courts she's really hard to beat.   
  
  Q.  You called for a trainer after the first set.   
 MARION BARTOLI:  No, no.  I just had to readjust the tape on my nails because I had a broken nail, so...   
  
  Q.  Overall are you pretty pleased with your preparation for the US Open. ?  Seems like you've been improving over the summer, right.   
 MARION BARTOLI:  Yeah, of course.  You know, I feel like my game a really almost clicking together and almost 100% before to go to the Open, so it feels good.   
 I have a pretty the good draw in the first two rounds and it's getting tougher, but the two first rounds are the most important and I will try to get this one under my belt and after I will see.   
 But overall I'm pretty confident before the Open.  Even if I don't win the match today I feel like I play pretty good, so that's fine to me.   
  
  Q.  You seem to be bouncing on your toes a lot.  You're father taught you a certain method than the ball was underneath your foot and that encouraged you to be on your toes more?   
 MARION BARTOLI:  Yeah.  I mean, you know, in tennis you have to be -- your weight has to be in front of you.  If your weight is backwards you cannot play tennis, so you have to have your weight on your toes and be able to move from that position.   
 But, you know, against Elena it's not easy to do it because have to do it maybe one-minute in a row because the rallies are so long.  So it's really hard against her to closeout a match because she just -- when she play like this she's just on every ball and she makes you work so hard.   
 So if you don't have your weight in front of in tennis you cannot play.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT