ROGERS CUP PRESENTED BY AMERICAN EXPRESS
August 17, 2007
Marion Bartoli
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  Can you tell us the state of your injury, why you retired? 
 MARION BARTOLI:  I'm sorry? 
 THE MODERATOR:  Why you retired. 
 MARION BARTOLI:  Okay.  I got sick.  You know, I've got a virus like some few players had during this tournament.  And I couldn't - I couldn't make it.  I was just too tired.  And you know, I've got a headache, and I don't feel good at all.  And it was very windy today, and I couldn't see the ball.  I was seeing the ball at the last second it was coming on me.  So, I was just not able to complete the match. 

 Q.  It had nothing to do with your back? 
 MARION BARTOLI:  No, I think yesterday, you know, we played a very touch match with Dinara, finished very late.  And you know, the virus is staying here from couple of days and couple of days I had it, and I think I was just too tired.  And the virus get on me.  But it was not a physical problem, no. 

 Q.  Can you tell us a bit about Yan Zi?  What kind of player she was for you, and what you thought of her talent out there? 
 MARION BARTOLI:  Well, you know, it's the first time I play against her.  And well she play double-handed like me, and she take the ball very early.  And I think she played really well during this tournament, and sometimes it can happen.  And she beat Ana in the second round, and she has some pretty good wins. 
 So she definitely is in good shape right now.  I don't know if she's going to continue playing singles.  Usually she plays more in doubles.  But yeah, she's playing great. 

 Q.  Is it sometimes difficult to play a player like that who you don't know much about? 
 MARION BARTOLI:  Well, usually when you are in a good shape and they are not really difficult.  Because I know the strengths and weaknesses of the double-handed game.  But when you cannot put the ball in front of you, and you couldn't play some really great tennis, it's hard to play against everyone, so... 

 Q.  You played very many tournaments, why? 
 THE MODERATOR:  Can you repeat? 

 Q.  You play very many tournaments, why? 
 MARION BARTOLI:  I play very many tournaments? 
 THE MODERATOR:  Yeah, you play many tournaments. 
 MARION BARTOLI:  Why I play many tournaments?  Because you know, you have to schedule your tournaments six weeks before they are coming out.  And six weeks before, I didn't know I was going to go into the final of Wimbledon. 
 So when you enter, when I entered I was not in the final of Wimbledon.  And you know, I stayed and I stick with my schedule that I was supposed to play to try to make everyone happy and still go on the tournament and play some tennis. 
 Unfortunately, it was a mistake, and I think I had to start later.  But you know, you realize the mistake when you're doing them, and you cannot anticipate them.  You cannot say before.  So of course, after US Open, I'm going to cool down on my schedule.  And I will play very less tournament and it's going same for next year.  But I was not supposed to be in the final of Wimbledon. 

 Q.  You were sick earlier in the summer, too.  Does it feel similar?  Is it the same thing again or is it something different? 
 MARION BARTOLI:  Yeah, it's kind of a virus that really takes you down and makes you feel so tired like you cannot stay awake.  And, you know, I just -- I just couldn't keep my eyes open.  I was just not able to play some tennis at all today. 

 Q.  So it's a new sickness? 
 MARION BARTOLI:  Yeah. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT