WIMBLEDON
July 6, 2007
Marion Bartoli
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  The Wimbledon ladies finalist, Marion Bartoli.  Questions, please. 

 Q.  1-6 in the first set to the No. 1 player in the world.  How did you come back? 
 MARION BARTOLI:  To come back? 

 Q.  Yes . 
 MARION BARTOLI:  Well, to tell you the truth, as I said on BBC a few minutes ago, I saw Pierce Brosnan in the crowd, which is one of my favorite actor.  I love his movies. 
 I said to myself, it's not possible I play so bad in front of him.  Because he watch me and I play so bad it was unbelievable. 
 So I try to feel it a bit more the ball, play more smartly.  I saw he was cheering for me, so I said, Oh, maybe it's good.  I kept going and I won, so maybe a little bit for Pierce Brosnan. 

 Q.  TV personalities like Cliff Richard in the earlier match, does it not distract you having celebrities in the crowd? 
 MARION BARTOLI:  Well, I was focusing on Pierce Brosnan because he is so beautiful.  I was just watching him.  He was the only one. 

 Q.  What is responsible for this transformation from losing to her in four games in Eastbourne, four first-round losses to Wimbledon final? 
 MARION BARTOLI:  You know, each match is different, especially on grass.  The surface is so special.  A match can turn very easily.  I think, you know, I figure out a little bit more the way it's possible to play against her and find a little more gap into her tactic against her and find someplace to play in her game, you know. 
 I try to play better.  I believe in myself from the first point to the end.  You know, on a good day, I can beat everybody, and I prove it today.  Every match, especially in tennis, is different.  Now in tennis, especially in women's tennis, everybody can play everybody. 
 It's not because I lost 6-1, 6-1 in the semifinal of Eastbourne I should lose again today.  Why? 

 Q.  Were you ever overawed?  A lot of thunderbolts coming over the net.  You seemed to be coping quite well. 
 MARION BARTOLI:  The ball was touching the net? 

 Q.  Thundering over the net.  You were really coping well.  Were you ever overawed or nervous? 
 MARION BARTOLI:  No.  I mean, the first set I was quite nervous.  Especially the wind disturb really my game.  I was not feeling the ball good at all.  I was not hitting in the good rhythm.  My balls was not spinning enough. 
 So I tried to just forget against who I was playing and where I was playing and just try to play my game the best as possible, just try to forget this first set. 
 I play better.  You know, I get to the end of the second set and I was playing very good.  I start very good the first of the third set.  I was hitting 5-Love, and I won 6-1. 

 Q.  Can you believe you're in the final?  Is it still surprising to you? 
 MARION BARTOLI:  Well, you know, for the moment, I don't realize really what I'm doing right now in this tournament.  Of course, if you are telling me -- you know, last week when I saw the draw in Eastbourne, I was worried about my first round against Pennetta and now I'm in the final.  I'm kind of the girl watching match after match. 
 If you think beat the No. 1 in the world, Centre Court, almost full, then in the final of a Grand Slam, especially Wimbledon, if you tell me that before, I couldn't believe you.  I actually made it. 
 I think after this tournament I will realize maybe a little more what I'm doing during this tournament.  But right now really I don't realize it. 

 Q.  It would make your dad very proud. 
 MARION BARTOLI:  Yeah. 

 Q.  What does that mean to you?  Obviously he's traveled with you. 
 MARION BARTOLI:  That means a lot, of course, because we have been working together since the first time I hit a tennis ball, which means 16 years ago.  Of course, to reach the final of Wimbledon is such a big achievement, you know. 
 You cannot aim -- I mean, it was not my aim to be in the final of a Grand Slam, and I did it.  We did it together actually. 
 So, I mean, to do that, really it means a lot to me, of course, and to him as well.  That means he's a very good tennis coach.  He's a very good doctor and a very good tennis coach and a very good father. 

 Q.  Probably the most distinctive thing about your game, other than two hands everywhere, is the accuracy of your groundstrokes.  Not necessarily the hardest in tennis but the accuracy is amazing.  Are there drills you've used over the years to become such an accurate groundstroker? 
 MARION BARTOLI:  When I was younger, still living in France, we didn't have any indoor courts.  The indoor courts we had was multi-surface courts.  It was the courts for volleyball, basketball, tennis.  They have some multi-lines all over the courts. 
 My dad used to put me some targets.  If I touched the targets, I get a candy.  So I was very motivated.  Maybe that's why I'm still loving too much the candies.  But whatever. 
 So on this court, I didn't have any backgrounds.  I couldn't go back.  The wall was one meter behind the baseline.  If I was at least staying on the baseline, my racquet was touching the wall behind me. 
 So I have to stay inside the baseline, take the ball as early as possible, and touching the target.  I played thousands and thousands of ball like that.  I think it helps. 
 I believe that tennis, you learn tennis from 12 to 14, 12 to 15.  That's when you learn tennis.  I learned my game in this court.  To play inside on indoor court, that's where I learned it. 

 Q.  You mentioned Pierce Brosnan.  What is your favorite Bond movie? 
 MARION BARTOLI:  Well, the one with Sophie Marceau.  This is Die Another Day or the World is Not Enough, something like that.  But Pierce Brosnan, I can watch James Bond a hundred times in a row.  It's not a problem for me. 

 Q.  Do you have an explanation for why French players do well outside Roland Garros?  Gasquet trying to get into the semifinals.  Mauresmo was defending champion. 
 MARION BARTOLI:  Yeah, and Tauziat reached the final as well here.  I think our games is fitting more to the faster court than the slowest court.  It's as simple as this. 
 Even if we have the Grand Slam on clay and we have a lot of clay courts in France, our games, the way we are practicing when we are young players, we are more practicing an attacking game, to go to the net, to go hit the ball. 
 This kind of game is not really fitting to the clay, which is more long game.  You have to put more topspin to the ball.  I mean, this is different. 
 That's why I think we are playing so well on grass. 

 Q.  Will you invite Pierce Brosnan into your box tomorrow? 
 MARION BARTOLI:  I'm not sure I will meet him again before my match, but I'm sure he will have some tickets to get in.  That's no problem I think. 

 Q.  I spoke to Pierce Brosnan, and he says he has a wedding tomorrow but he'll be with you in spirit.  He has a picture if you want it.  Does that satisfy you? 
 MARION BARTOLI:  Yeah, that is satisfying me. 

 Q.  What will be the key for you to beat Venus tomorrow? 
 MARION BARTOLI:  Well, I never play against Venus.  I play against her sister, Serena.  I guess, you know, to beat the No. 1 in the world will give me a lot of confidence. 
 And to play on this court, Centre Court, win that match, I will be really up for tomorrow.  I have nothing to lose tomorrow.  Venus has been the champion here already.  You know, I will try to figure out the way to play against her. 
 Even if I will lose the first set, I won't go out.  I will try my best to play the best as possible and to win this match. 

 Q.  Will it be hard to raise your game?  Will it be hard to raise your game two days in a row? 
 MARION BARTOLI:  No.  I think at the end of the second set, the third set, I play the way I was playing, especially against Jankovic.  I think the way I can play day in and day out.  I mean, I practice for that.  I think I was not overplaying, I was just playing good. 

 Q.  You're very emotional on the court.  Fist pumps.  Your father is almost emotionless in the player's box.  He looked a little stunned after the match was over.  How do you explain the differences in your personalities? 
 MARION BARTOLI:  Well, I think my dad is as emotional as me, but he don't show it.  Because if he show it to me, then I'm more stress.  It's better if I see a person that is really emotionless, even if he inside differently, and it helps me to stay calm and to stay focused.  Doesn't get over emotions.  That's why he's like this, I think. 

 Q.  You work with your father.  Has anybody else helped you with your tennis over the years? 
 MARION BARTOLI:  No.  He has been always here. 

 Q.  Do you think the 2-Love game in the final set was really key? 
 MARION BARTOLI:  Yeah, yeah, I think it was a key because I was against the wind.  To get those two games under my belt really gave me a lot of confidence to turn around at 3-Love and to go with the wind for me and, of course, to play more aggressively. 
 I was the wind against me.  I was trying to put the spin on the ball as possible that doesn't allow Justine to get it to the court.  But of course it was really difficult to win those games.  I think, of course, it was the key for the final set. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT