WIMBLEDON
July 4, 2007
Marion Bartoli
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  How does it feel to be a semifinalist at Wimbledon? 
 MARION BARTOLI:  Well, obviously it feels good.  You know, it's always great to be in the last four in a Grand Slam.  I mean, the first time for me. 
 It was already the first time to be in the quarters.  To be able to go through that match, even if I don't start very well, losing first set 6-3, she was serving very well. 
 I found the key after the rain delay and I play very good.  I thought I play very good finally at the last set.  I'm really happy to go through and to be in the semifinal. 

 Q.  Yesterday you said during the match with Jankovic you had a chance during the rain delay to see points on television and analyze them.  Did you get the chance again today? 
 MARION BARTOLI:  No.  I was short of sleep so I slept for an hour during the rain delay.  I think after that I was feeling much better.  So it was good for me to have the rain delay. 

 Q.  It's the second match that you played brilliantly the third set.  What gives you strength to finish so well?  Is it your physical form, mental toughness? 
 MARION BARTOLI:  Well, I think it's both.  It's a combination.  I'm working hard.  I'm a great competitor.  I think when it gets tough, I think I'm tougher than my opponents.  That's why I'm thinking - I think. 
 I've been working very hard, especially on practice to go through those situation, tightness, when it's really tight and you have to go through to win.  That's why I'm practice for. 

 Q.  How can you practice that in a training situation? 
 MARION BARTOLI:  Well, you know, you practice, you have only one ball to serve, for example, and you're down 30-40.  You have one ball to serve and you have to win the point.  Some exercise like this, that makes you tougher. 

 Q.  Is it your father who makes the drills for you? 
 MARION BARTOLI:  Yeah. 

 Q.  Your unusual and yet very effective style reminds us of Monica Seles.  Was she an inspiration for you? 
 MARION BARTOLI:  She was a big inspiration because before I was playing with one-handed.  When my dad saw the final in '92 with the French Open, Steffi Graf and Seles, he saw Monica play double-handed. 
 He told me the next day to try to play double-handed because before I was playing one hand and I was very weak, especially on my forehand side.  He told me to try.  The next day I play double-handed and from that day I never stop. 
 She was a big inspiration, of course. 

 Q.  Was there any particular reason that you didn't sleep well last night? 
 MARION BARTOLI:  The match against Jelena was very tough.  To go through these matches, to be able to go to the quarterfinal, you have so many rain delays, you have to still be able to come back to the court and win those kind of matches, especially against a girl who is top five in the world.  It takes you a lot of energy. 
 I was supposed to play doubles yesterday night.  Finally we get canceled.  Time to go back to the hotel, get some treatment and stuff.  I get to bed at 11:30.  I was awake this morning at 7:30, so I was really short of sleep.  I need at least 10 hours each night for me to sleep, so I am missing two hours. 
 After one hour of sleep, it was much better. 

 Q.  How were you able to do one hour of sleep during the rain break? 
 MARION BARTOLI:  You know, I was so tired, I just lie down and close my eyes and that's it (laughter). 

 Q.  In the locker room? 
 MARION BARTOLI:  Yeah, in the locker room. 

 Q.  How did you wake up? 
 MARION BARTOLI:  Well, when I heard the referee's office announcement, We are uncovering the court, checking the court, and we'll get back to you as soon as possible, I knew it was time to wake up (laughter). 

 Q.  Did you have any dreams at that time? 
 MARION BARTOLI:  No, I just slept.  That's it. 

 Q.  Can you tell us what was going through your mind in the first set because you looked very angry at times? 
 MARION BARTOLI:  Yeah, it was very tight.  It was the first time for me in the quarterfinal.  I knew I was normally better than her.  But, you know, she has a very different game from Jelena.  She has a huge serve and there is no rallies.  You don't have any rhythm against her. 
 She serve each first serve 110 miles, which is a big difference from Jankovic yesterday.  She doesn't give you much opportunities on her serve, so you have to be really focusing on your serve first and then to be able to go to a breakpoint and break her.  This is the only key to win against her. 
 In the first set, I was not ready to play against that game.  I think the rain delay helped me a lot to figure out which way I should play against her. 

 Q.  Who were those looks aimed at in the crowd? 
 MARION BARTOLI:  Well, I was looking at her agent a little bit when he was cheering too much for her.  A little bit to my dad, as well, to get some help.  But I believe you have to find the key by yourself when you're on court. 
 Tennis, it's an individual sport and you have to figure out the way to win.  It's inside you.  It's not from outside.  So the only key for me to do today was to find the key inside me. 

 Q.  You know you're going to be playing one of the biggest players in the semifinals.  Might you be a bit sleep-deprived because of nerves before that one? 
 MARION BARTOLI:  No, I don't think so.  I've been through some big stage already against some big players and in some tough situation, finals of tournaments.  I'm not afraid to play against the big players.  Not afraid. 
 It's going to be my first time on Centre Court.  I'm very happy to be for the first time on Centre Court in Wimbledon.  I will really enjoy that moment. 

 Q.  Amélie Mauresmo is the champion from last year.  She's out.  Do you think you could potentially go further and emulate her? 
 MARION BARTOLI:  This is my first time in semifinal.  I have semifinal to play.  Maybe I will think about the title when I'll be in the final, not before. 

 Q.  What was your first thought after winning the match? 
 MARION BARTOLI:  Great job to go through this match.  I was really, really happy.  All the stress I go through from yesterday and today, just relax and enjoy the day off tomorrow, then think about the semifinal tomorrow night. 

 Q.  When someone has an unusual style, often people around would say it's not going to work, you have to change.  What gives you strength at the end of the day when you prove all the opponents wrong? 
 MARION BARTOLI:  Well, I think my technique, it's really perfect.  There is nothing to change on my technique.  I mean, playing double-handed on the forehand.  It's not a big thing.  There is lot of players that play double.  Some even switch hands. 
 But I think my backhand and my forehand are really perfect technically, so why I should change anything?  Even if I play double-handed, it's not a big deal.  Yeah, I play double-handed.  It's not that strange. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT