WIMBLEDON
June 29, 2007
Marion Bartoli
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  I want to ask you about Fed Cup. 
 MARION BARTOLI:  I just spoke in French for ten minutes about Fed Cup.  What the about the Fed Cup?  I'm not doing the selection, first of all.  The captain is doing it, and he has not done it already, so I have no idea if I'm going to be in the team or not.  The question, right now, is not in the moment.  I can't answer your questions because I don't know. 

 Q.  That seems common.  The Russians say the same thing about their team.  The captains aren't communicating. 
 MARION BARTOLI:  There is so many choices that the captain has.  We have the Fed Cup after Wimbledon, but he has not done already the selection, so I cannot tell you if I'm inside the team or not inside the team.  First of all, I'm playing a Grand Slam, and that's it. 

 Q.  Can you just talk about what's turned it around for you the last couple months?  What explains your very good play, both Roland Garros and here? 
 MARION BARTOLI:  Well, I think I've put a lot of work the last couple of years, maybe more, and getting more experience.  I think my physical has improved a lot, and I'm able to compete against the top players for each matches, and I think the quality of my game from the baseline has improved a lot as well as my serve, so I think everything is coming together and I'm a more complete player all around. 

 Q.  At the Grand Slams are you more confident?  Do you feel more comfortable when you go on the big court against the big players? 
 MARION BARTOLI:  Oh, yeah, definitely, because I think to play on Centre Court in the French Open and this match gives me a lot of confidence for the rest, and to beat Dementieva in the second biggest stadium in France gave me a lot of confidence.  So of course now I'm not scared to play against the big players on the big courts. 
 But first of all you have to beat them on some other courts not to be afraid about their game and then go on and compete at your best, and for that you need some experience and you need to beat them somehow.  So I think to beat some girls like Dementieva, Hantuchova, gave me a lot of confidence, of course, for getting here in the second week, getting here in the second week of the French Open. 

 Q.  Are you playing smarter, too?  Are you a smarter player now? 
 MARION BARTOLI:  I think I read the game more than my opponent, and I find, of course, more the key from the baseline.  But again, you find more keys when you're going fast.  When you play slow you don't find any keys, you're just running after the ball.  So to get in control of the round you need to play fast, you need to play close to the baselines.  That's the only way to control the game, and then of course find most of the shots on the court.  And I think because my baseline has improved so much I have more possibilities. 

 Q.  Are you getting more depth and more angles on your shots? 
 MARION BARTOLI:  I think I'm getting more angles, and I'm able when the ball is coming fast to give it back as fast as it's coming, and before usually when the ball was coming fast I would just slow down the ball and get beat on the next shot.  I think my improvement now is when I'm running and on the run, I have the power to be able to come back and play each shot with the same power, and I think that's the key, of course, to the power now. 

 Q.  Grass fits your game pretty well.  I know you've done well on clay.  Do you feel that? 
 MARION BARTOLI:  Yeah, of course, my game has switched to grass.  But on grass you need to get as much possible power because you can have a bad bounce.  You never know what can happen on grass.  You can get a bad bounce and your return of serve is not like on the hard court, and you need to be very quick on your legs.  So I think because I'm not so tall, I'm quite short, I can have the agility with my feet and move quick enough to get control from the baseline, and of course you need to serve a lot of first serves in. 

 Q.  You obviously played well today, but Jankovic is another step up would you say? 
 MARION BARTOLI:  Yeah, of course, she's another step up.  But everybody can have a bad day one day, and also I will have nothing to lose.  I will have two days off.  Tomorrow I'm playing doubles.  I will have all the time to think about this match and get ready, and I think if I compete at my best, I can definitely have my chance in this match. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT