U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 22, 2000
Betsy King
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Perhaps one of the bigger stories of the day, a woman who will not be in the final group.  A tremendously brave performance from you.  First of all, let's talk about the extent of the injury.  When did you hurt your back?

BETSY KING:   I just hurt it on the 2nd tee on the tee shot.  I felt like I pulled something.  I've had problems off and on with the right part of my back, and you know, you can't tell right away how it was going to be.  And then I felt it walking down to the green.  And by the time I got to the 3rd tee, I could hardly swing and I just tried to play through it, but, obviously, you know, I didn't make one swing out there without pain.  It's just  -- obviously, was very hard to play.  I probably would have withdrawn if it had been any other tournament and if I had not been in the position I was in starting the day.


Q.  Did you feel any obligation to stay in the game because you did not think it was fair to leave your fellow competitor playing alone in the final group of the U.S. Open, out of a sense of obligation? 

BETSY KING:   Well, you know what, to tell you the truth, that did not cross my mind.  It probably should have, but, you know, I was just hurting so bad; it was hard to think of too much.  Meg was very gracious.  It was tough for her.  We had that five-minute break before the 6th hole, and, you know she played very well in spite of it.  I just tried to stay out of her way, but it was really hard to be an active participant in the group today.


Q.  Is there any way to characterize the depths of your disappointment, given how terrific a year this has been for and you, how historic a run for you this could have been, at this Championship, given you might not have been injured?

BETSY KING:   Well, it's interesting, because I've been on Tour for 23 years, and this is the first time this has ever happened to me.  I've had problems with my back a little bit, but I've never had it happen in the middle of a round, and certainly not right in the U.S. Open when you're a few shots back.  So I'm very thankful that I've had the health that I have had throughout my career.  So, I've certainly gotten more than my fair share of opportunities to win, and hopefully -- I don't know if I'll get to play tomorrow or not, but if I can at all, I'll be here and, you know, work on it and come back.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT