U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 1994
Betsy King
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 LES UNGER: Betsy, thanks for coming in and braving the weather.
 We were shy some writers; not as brave, I'm afraid.  You've had
a chance to play the course.  Perhaps you can give us a little
comparison as a starter; what you see out there now versus in
the past?

 BETSY KING:  I think the course is basically the same.  It is
in great shape.  I think it is probably a little bit lusher than
it was five years ago, but that is probably a condition on the
weather.  I think it is in excellent shape.  They have moved the
tees back.  I realize they had done it on number 4.  I just read
in the paper that it was on 16 as well.  I didn't even notice
that when I played, but -- so definitely it makes a difference
on 4; whereas, before it was a lay-up shot off the tee and a very
short iron in.  Now you have a blind shot into the green.  But
I imagine that when the tournament rolls around, the course will
play about the same.

 LES UNGER:  How about the status of your game right now?

 BETSY KING:  I feel I am playing well.  I started out the year,
I wasn't hitting the ball as well.  I think the last, I'd say,
two months, I have hit the ball well and just haven't put four
rounds together, but I definitely feel that if I can just remain
patient enough, I think the time will come.

 LES UNGER:  Questions.


 Q.  How much do you remember of your first Women's Open here?

 BETSY KING:  I don't know.  Not a whole lot.  I remember coming
down 18, I guess, the way this golf course was, I felt that until
you finally got the last drive in play that there was still a
chance for disaster, and I think when I hit the last drive in
the fairway, I felt that I had won the event.  So that made it
nice coming down 18; aren't too many opportunities that, you know,
you have won before you get to the 18th green.  Other than that,
I don't remember a whole lot.

 Q.  Does playing again at a site where you have done well
improve your psychological outlook for this week?

 BETSY KING:  I think the only advantage is that you do have a
few good memories of the past.  Obviously, that happens on tour
quite a bit when we go back to the same site. But other than that,
I don't think it is really that much of an advantage.  It is interesting.
 I have played in the Open since 1975 and this is the first time
that we have had a repeat golf course.  I think the men do that
more where they kind of go back to the same courses over and over,
and we just seem to switch a lot and so this is unusual for us
to come back to the site again.

 Q.  The course being soft, is this going to favor a longer
hitter even more than usual?

 BETSY KING:  The course is soft.  I don't know if it necessarily
-- obviously the Open is going to separate the field.  You are
not going to get somebody that just hits it down the middle. 
It always takes some length. Perhaps, with it being wet, it will
play a little bit longer.  But, you know, there is always a premium
on keeping it in play as well, but you know, this is -- you come
to an Open and there is probably a third of the field that really
doesn't have a chance to win in terms of -- I have been on that
side too.  I have played as an amateur, and going into the tournament
I wasn't looking to win the event.  But I don't think there will
be any fluke winners here.  It will be a player that has had a
lot of experience and obviously can hit the ball well. If you
can hit the ball high, that is always an advantage in the Open.
 Although, if it keeps raining, that takes that advantage away
a little bit.

 Q.  Betsy, who would you include among those names that can
win here, and would you put yourself high on that list?

 BETSY KING:  Well, I mean, from my standpoint, I feel I can win
every week, but I am sure all the players that do have experienced
some success.  Obviously Laura is playing well and Beth Daniel
is playing very well too.  I would say Laura and Beth and Donna
Andrews have been the players that have done the best on our tour
this year. And beyond that, you know, there are a lot of other
names that are capable of winning.  I feel when we tee it up now,
I'd say there is probably 75 players that can win each week and
although here maybe that number is reduced a little bit because
of the toughness of the golf course, but it is interesting for
me to see the change in women's golf; in my mind, the biggest
change has just been the power that has come into the game.  The
younger players are stronger and physically bigger.  I have said
this before, when I came on tour Sandra Palmer was winning and
Judy Rankin and people that were very small physically and now
the players that are doing well are tall, stronger; can hit the
ball further without much effort, seemingly, and so I think that
has been the biggest change.

 Q.  You are saying it is harder for you to win now than it
was four years ago?

 BETSY KING:  Definitely, it is harder to win.  I think we are
playing the best golf that we have ever played on the tour.

 Q.  How would you rank Laura and Beth right now as far as
a -- can you split those two right now; seems like they are the
top two?

 BETSY KING:  Yeah.  I mean, that always has been streaky and
I have always felt that -- I have known Beth for a long time I
have always felt that she has had the best overall game out here,
in my mind, and when she doesn't play well is when she fights
the putter.  When she gets her putter back on track then we can
really dominate and I think she has, you know, has a very good
golf swing and has a good short game.  She is pretty feisty, but
I think she uses that to her advantage and I just think that she
is the most talent.  Laura, in my mind, obviously physically has
the most power of anyone out here.  But I don't think she is quite
as consistent as Beth is.  I don't think her golf swing is as
technically sound as Beth's is, but she is definitely the most
exciting player to watch, and if -- I mean, I think she has improved
quite a bit the last few years in terms of keeping the ball more
in play.  I mean how many times is she able to hit her driver?
 That, in my mind, is probably what puts her back, even though
she is so strong, if she can get her driver in play, she would
have that much more of an advantage.  But it is really hard, I
mean, between the two of them, it is just who happens to make
the most putts.  It is interesting.  I mean, they are both great
players.  They are both good to play with.  I have partnered with
Beth in the Solheim Cup and I have certainly enjoyed that.  Laura
-- when you play with Laura you just see shots hit that you don't
see hit by anyone else.  It is -- so it is always fun.

 LES UNGER:  She said yesterday she could hit her driver 280.

 BETSY KING:  Oh, yeah, I mean, I asked  JoAnne Carner the other
week if she is the longest woman that has ever played and she
said, yes, she is.  I don't think people realize that sometimes.
 I don't think they realize just how good the women's players
are.  They think of -- and I don't mean to demean women's club
players -- but they think that that is how we play, and I hit
the ball like an average male player in terms of distance and
just that much more consistent, but Laura Davies hits the ball
as hard as a male tour player, and, you know, probably further
than quite a few of them.  So. . .

 LES UNGER:  If you hit your best and Laura hit her best, what
would you be giving away?

 BETSY KING:  Probably 30, 40 yards.  We are three clubs different
on irons, but I mean, she is hitting an 8-iron about 165 yards,
so -- but as I say, I mean, she hits her 2-iron and I can hit
my driver a little past her 2-iron, so I mean, where is the --
I mean, even though she is standing there hitting a shorter iron
in, if she could hit her driver every hole, obviously, that would
be that much more of an advantage.

 Q.  Beth talked a little yesterday about the Hall of Fame
and her approach to it.  Do you have any thoughts on the requirements
on that and --

 BETSY KING:  Well, I think obviously I have probably dealt with
that question a lot more than Beth has in the last two years,
but from my approach, I am just trying to play one shot at a time.
 I don't think it really becomes a factor and obviously teeing
up on the first hole, I don't say "Am I going to be in the
Hall of Fame at the end of the week."  But when you get a
chance to win, then that is the challenge to put those thoughts
aside and just approach and play one shot at a time.  I believe
that the requirements will be changed, and I think they need to
be, but I think right now they are kind of waiting just for the
few of us that are close that have a chance and I hope that --
I think beyond Amy, Beth and I, I don't believe you will see anybody
else get in the next ten years unless they change the requirements.


 Q.  Because after the three of you there is --

 BETSY KING:  Quite a drop off.  And they will change.  I mean,
obviously, they need to.  There are just more players out here
Judy Dickinson mentioned to me last night that Betsy Rawls --
the official wins listed for Betsy Rawls, it was one round of
golf in a tournament and that counted as an official win.  That
would never happen today.  But there is just so many good players
and there are -- not only are the numbers greater, but the number
of good players are greater too, so I think the idea of a point
system is good.  But I think it just needs to be adjusted to reflect
-- in my mind, the Hall of Fame should be the best players of
each era that they are in. And the way it is weighted out now,
it is saying like everybody that started on the tour in the 1950s
are the best players and I just don't think that is true.

 Q.  Any maybe giving points for the Vare Trophy and player
of the year and each Major having some weight--

 BETSY KING:  Yes.

 Q. -- it is just as difficult to win?

 BETSY KING:  Exactly, why should it be different--  I don't know
if I would put it five points. I might drop it to three but every
major be three points.  Give a couple of points for Vare Trophy;
player of the year, leading money winner, just to add a few more
ways to make points.

 Q.  So the overall concept would remain as it should be and
I think it is respected throughout the sports world?

 BETSY KING:  Right.

 Q.  Because it is the most difficult, but it would give them
a shot?

 BETSY KING:  Yeah, I think it is interesting because of the way
that the Hall of Fame has been set up, we have probably had more
publicity about it than any other Hall of Fame in sports.  So
from that standpoint, it has been a plus, but on the other hand,
as a player, I don't think I would want to be starting on tour
right now and to think that I have to win 30 tournaments with
two different Majors to have a realistic chance of getting in
there.

 Q.  Everybody is against voting -- which can take such bizarre
terms -- but the older players like Judy Rankin, for instance,
came so close, an option -- if an option could be there that once
a year they wouldn't have to vote someone in every year as some
of the other awards where not every year an award is given, but
the possibility for the members of the Hall to vote on someone
like Judy Rankin and have at least the option if they feel that
they deserve that?

 BETSY KING:  Right.

 Q.  Do you think something of that nature would be--

 BETSY KING:  I think that has been talked about as well to have
some sort of procedure for people that have already finished their
careers and were close to the Hall, but didn't make it.  I think
that would be fine, too.  You know, there has been different people
that have sort of set standards.  I know Judy Rankin was the first
player to earn 100,000 a year.  A lot of marks that were made,
and certainly, I think that that will be addressed.

 Q.  Betsy, what is your assessment as to how difficult these
greens are in this golf course?

 BETSY KING:  Well, I think you know, it is a little deceptive
right now because they are little bit softer than they normally
are just because -- well, I played yesterday morning; I think
that was one thing, and now with this rain, they are obviously
going to be softer which takes away a little bit from the hardness
of them. But the key here, I think, is to keep the ball below
the hole.  If you get pin high or above, you are going to have
a tough time getting down at two.  For the most part, they slope
back to front, and you just have to try to keep the ball below
the hole.  There is a lot of break.  Obviously the speed of the
greens is going to be fast, and it takes some imagination to play
them.

 Q.  How happy are you with your putting now?

 BETSY KING:  Well, actually I feel better.  I mean, I have putted
pretty poorly.  I mean, I have kept stats the last two months,
and everything has gone up except for my putting.  I mean, it
has gotten better.  I have hit more fairways; hit more greens.
 I have done better with my chipping and my pitching, but my putting
average has gone up, and so I did get a lesson yesterday and I
feel better because I like to have something positive to work
on, and I think that will make an immediate result to get better.


 Q.  Who did you work with?

 BETSY KING:  Ed Oldfield is here-- is here yesterday and today.
 So I like to have something to work on and I think it is a positive
thing.

 Q.  After just playing a time or so, is there a stretch of
this golf course that may make the difference?

 BETSY KING:  I mean, it is hard to pick out holes.  Every hole,
in my mind, can be tough or can be easy.  Probably 6 and 7 are
maybe a little bit longer.  I think particularly 6 kind of a long
approach shot and the green, the way it is set, if they put the
pin back left it is going to be hard to really shoot at it.  But
you know, any of the holes out there can jump up and get you.


  End of FastScripts....            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT