U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 5, 2011
Betsy King
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, Betsy King has won the U.S. Women's Open twice. She's been the No. 1 player in the world. She won the Women's Open in 1989 and 1990 back to back. She's won just everything there is to win, 34 victories on the LPGA Tour, and we are all very honored that this year Betsy went out to sectional qualifying in Mesa, Arizona and shot 73, 71. 
 And my question, Betsy, is: Why did you decide to do this? 
 BETSY KING: To be honest, I was out hitting balls one day, and I thought, I don't know, maybe I'll try to qualify. You know, I've never tried to qualify before. The last time I had to qualify was 1975. I don't know. 
 To be honest, there was a Legends event right after that, and I thought it would be good practice for the Legends event. About one week before I went to qualify, I had the date wrong in my head and it was a day later than what I thought it was, so I ended up not getting a practice round for the Legends event. 
 But I really surprised myself. I played okay, and, I, you know, played well enough. But, you know, I'm very happy to be here. Obviously the golf course is a little bit harder than where I qualified, even though they had the qualifying course set up about 6,800 yards. 
 But it was, you know, in Arizona, flat, and the ball runs out a little bit. It will be a challenge for me this week. I'm just viewing it as one week back in the competition. I was thinking about it the other day. It's a perfect circle for me, because the first event I played as a professional was the '77 U.S. Women's Open.
 I turned professional, played the Open, and then qualified for the LPGA Tour the week after the Women's Open in that year. So it's the first event I played as a professional. It will be the last event I play as a professional on the tour, as part of the LPGA Tour. 
 THE MODERATOR: Really? This will be your last event? 
 BETSY KING: Yes.
 THE MODERATOR: What if you win? 
 BETSY KING: Well, if I win, I can always change my mind. (Smiling.) That would be a real miracle, believe me. 
 But I've enjoyed it. I've played 18 holes yesterday and today, and I'm a little sore. Plan to play nine holes tomorrow. I played with a couple young players, a high school girl today, Emma, from Kentucky, and then a college player yesterday. Boy, can they hit it. 
 It's definitely at a new level where they can move it out there. Rachel, who I played with yesterday who will be a junior at Ohio State, her coach is Therese Hession who is a friend of mine and played on the tour. Therese asked me to play a practice round with her. 
 I'm going to give Therese a hard time, because it's giving me an inferiority complex. She absolutely hits it. I mean, she said she hits a 5-iron 200 yards. That's pretty strong. Not at altitude, you know, regularly. 
 THE MODERATOR: Is that mainly how the women's game has changed, do you think, the power element? And are the short games as good as players when you were in your peak years? 
 BETSY KING: Well, you know, obviously when you play with a 17 year old and even a college player, what they lack is the experience and probably don't know how to hit all the shots and, you know, the short game.
 So the potential is there. You can see it. They can hit the ball a long way, and I think with the instruction that the players receive today, they definitely have better golf swings than we did. 
 You know, most of the players in my era were athletes that turned to play golf because it was either golf or tennis if you wanted to pursue a sport to make a living. 
 Today they, you know, start playing younger and concentrate on golf, and it really shows.
 THE MODERATOR: I know they have a lot of questions they want to ask you, but I wanted to ask you, do you have a coach today? I know Ed Oldfield helped you for so many years. Did you have someone help you get ready for this championship? 
 BETSY KING: Well, since I qualified - I don't know if it was about three-and-a-half weeks ago or maybe four weeks by the time we tee off - I went back to Chicago three times to see my pro, who is still Ed Oldfield. 
 I've tried to practice and play more than I normally would, but I had a funny schedule. I didn't change my schedule in that I played in two charity events that I had committed to play in. I went to a junior golf camp last week in Orlando, Florida and visited some -- the last two weeks I've been in Pennsylvania, Chicago, Minnesota, Orlando, Florida, Chicago, and then back to Phoenix Friday night. 
 So I probably didn't have the desired schedule that you'd like to have leading into the Open. But I wanted to honor the commitments that I made, and I just tried to practice and play a little bit more around those commitments.
 THE MODERATOR: Terrific. Questions? 

 Q. It's a little murky when you retired. When did you retire and why did you retire?
 BETSY KING: I retired -- last event I played on the tour was Labor Day weekend of 2005. I retired because both my parents were ill. My father was diagnosed, had terminal cancer, and I found out in June of '05. In fact, I had signed up to qualify for the Open that year and then when he was diagnosed with cancer. I withdrew from the qualifying and he ended up passing away in September of that year.
 And then my mother had Alzheimer's, and she died in '07. I had shoulder surgery in '06. So there just were a number of events that happened that I felt God was telling me it was time to retire. 
 And then my game wasn't there, too. The last year, '05, I only played 10 events, and I think I only made the cut once or twice. It was definitely becoming a struggle. And just the situation, I think that was the best thing for me to do. But I never officially announced it. 

 Q. I know a lot of players, when they walk away from it, they just say that's it. I'm done. You know, they know when you're No. 1 what it takes to be at the top. 
 BETSY KING: Right.

 Q. Did you think you would ever pick up a club again? And are you surprised that you're not only playing but, you're playing in one of the toughest events of the year?
 BETSY KING: Yeah, you know, it's funny, because I've looked at other players that have tried to come back and I said, I'll never do that. And I wasn't planning on it. For me, I basically did not compete in anything for about four years.
 And then two years ago I played one Legends event at Innsbruck, and then last year I played I think two events. So I've probably played -- since '05 I've literally played in five professional events.
 I got away from it and decided that I'll try it a little bit. But you're right. You know what it takes to be, to play your best, and I definitely don't have the desire to do that. 
 I enjoy hitting balls sometimes, but, you know, with my charity golf for Africa and going to Africa, trying to put together golf events to help raise money, that takes up the majority of my time.
 THE MODERATOR: In 1995 when this championship was here at the Broadmoor, you tied for third. You must have good feelings about this place and this golf course.
 BETSY KING: You know, what sticks in my mind - and this is probably the way golf is - I believe I three-putted the last hole to end up tied for third instead of third by myself. I do remember that. The pin was up over the ridge, and I left the first putt short. I think I got just up over the ridge, and then missed the second putt.
 Other than that, I didn't remember the course that well. Once I got here and started playing it kind of looked the same. I think it's set up quite a little bit longer than the last time, because I remember being able to hit 17 in two and fairly easily. And I know I'm hitting it shorter now, as well, but they've lengthened that.
 THE MODERATOR: I haven't seen anybody get to it in two. They may have, but I haven't seen any. Questions? 

 Q. When did you get involved in your humanitarian efforts, and why did you get involved in it?
 BETSY KING: Through our Christian fellowship group on tour I have done trips practically my whole career. I went to Romania twice with several other players from the fellowship. Then I went to Honduras in '05 with World Vision and worked building houses for a week. 
 I would say it's definitely grown out of my faith. In 2006 I went on a trip to Africa with a group of women that were invited there to go to Africa to see the effect of poverty and AIDS on women and children. 
 You know, once I saw that firsthand, you know, I came back wanting to do something to make a difference. I thought that since I had been part of the golf community for 28 years as a player that that would be the natural thing to do.
 So we've had the events to raise money, and I've gotten a lot of support from the players who have donated their time, played in events. Probably the thing I've enjoyed most is having some players come with us to Africa. 
 Stacy has, I know, talked about the trip, how it affected her. Juli Inkster went with us and Reilley Rankin and Katherine Hull.
 So I'm hoping to continue that. It's life-changing. I know things aren't easy here in the U.S., but we just don't know what it's like to live in a Third World country where the vast majority of the population is poor and living in conditions without electricity, without indoor plumbing, with 50, 60, 70% unemployment. 
 It's just a matter of course, not, quote, a recession or anything like that. It's just a way of life. Maybe living under a government that is not -- is so corrupt. We just don't have those issues here. 
 But every time I go, I'm very impressed by the spirit of the people that have practically nothing but yet they're joyous as a community.
 So it's life-changing. I really enjoy going over there and trying to help. We've helped modestly. We have built a medical clinic and we're building houses and we partner with World Vision. Our latest project is building 45 houses for AIDS orphans and vulnerable country in a country called Lisutu. 
 It's completely surrounded by South Africa and has the third highest HIV-AIDS rate in the world. About a quarter of the population is infected. Because they don't have access to the ARV drugs like we do here, there are a number of children that have lost one or both parents to the disease. 
 So a lot of these homes will be going to children that are either living with older siblings or being raised by grandparents, or maybe even they're the head of the household at age 10 or 12. 
 So that's what we're doing presently. 
 THE MODERATOR: Do you still do some work for Habitat for Humanity? 
 BETSY KING: Yeah, actually with Habitat -- this housing project is a partnership with Habitat and World Vision. One of the things I learned by going internationally is charities work together to bring aid to the people. 
 This project that we're doing is a partnership with World Vision and Habitat. Habitat's working on the housing part, and World Vision comes alongside with the support to the family and the child. Like paying the school fees, providing agricultural support, and those kinds of things. 
 So it's a partnership with Habitat and World Vision. 

 Q. You had a few weeks to think about this event having qualified. 
 BETSY KING: Yes.

 Q. What was going through your mind about coming here this week?
 BETSY KING: Well, I'm already starting to get the golf nightmares. (Laughter.)
 That was one thing that was nice about retirement. It is amazing how long you have that. But, you know, I noticed this week it's getting a little bit stressful already. 
 But, you know, I'm trying to look at it as vacation. I have my best friend here, Debbie, and her parents are coming in and some other friends -- actually a couple people that went with us to Africa. I mean, it's obviously a beautiful place to be. 
 But, you know, when you're competitive, it comes out. You know, obviously you like to do well. So I'm definitely -- my goal is to prepare, be 100% prepared and give 100% on every shot. You know, however many I take, I'm going to give 100% on every one.
 THE MODERATOR: Golf nightmares. Interesting subject. Do you mind sharing one or two with us, please? 
 BETSY KING: The one I have had most often throughout my career is that standing on the first tee or on a tee box and you can't get a back swing because there is a tree in your way. You know, you're teeing off, so obviously you should have a clear path to swing. 
 And then usually getting lost, you can't find the golf course. That kind of thing where you're late. You're gonna miss your tee time and you just can't find the golf course. 
 THE MODERATOR: You never tried to put the tee in your mattress and you can't get your balance? 
 BETSY KING: No. I had to play one out of a locker one time though in a dream. You know, hitting at ball out of a locker in the locker room. 
 So it's amazing how you dream and it seems feasible, and then when you wake up you think, How could I have possibly thought that or been nervous about that? 
 THE MODERATOR: Yes, you're truly back, Betsy. Thank you. 
 BETSY KING: Thank you. 

 Q. How do you determine who goes to Africa with you? Do you pick the players or do they come to you? How does that work?
 BETSY KING: Actually, we kind of put it out there, and hopefully, you know, find players that are interested in going. I talked to Stacy a little bit last year. You know, like I'm going to go to our fellowship meeting tonight and ask around. 
 Juli, I think it was great she brought her two daughters along. I'm sure it was a great experience for them. So we kind of put it out there. It's not cheap to go. You know, it's probably about $5,000 plus the airfare to and from, depending how long we stay. It's a commitment to get over there. 
 But I feel very safe. We work with -- usually are hosted most of the time by World Vision and their local staff, so you're with people that can speak the language. I mean, every country you go into it's a different language. But that's how we determine who goes. 

 Q. Back to the nightmares, knowing that they are nightmares and dreams, whatever, does that relieve pressure, you know, for the real world and the real situation? And through the years and in your real heyday, quote, unquote, how did you prepare for majors and kind of relieve the pressure?
 BETSY KING: Well, for me, I like to play going into a major. I never took off the week before. You know, like Tiger never plays before a major, I was just the opposite. I always felt I played better if I was playing the week before. I wanted to get that competition.
 I know the first Open I won, it was the fifth event that I played in in a row. You know, I took the next week off and my dad was like, Don't you want to keep going? I'm like, No, I can't play every week. But you know how parents can be. You're playing well; keep playing. 
 But I just felt that was how I prepared. I'd also try to see my coach ahead of time. Sometimes at the Open itself, although I think it's better to work on changes ahead of time. Then by the time the tournament rolls around you kind of have it or you have one swing thought, not, you know, three or four. 

 Q. People put too much pressure on themselves in majors? 
 BETSY KING: I think the secret to the major, it's still just a golf tournament. You know, whatever worked to win whatever other event is gonna work to win, you know, the U.S. Open. 
 I mean, you have to play a little bit differently for the Open. I mean, normally a higher score wins. Hitting greens and making pars is better at the Open than, say, a course that you have to shoot 20-under. 
 But other than that, there's enough pressure without putting bit of extra pressure on yourself. You're always trying to say, Hey, it's just another tournament. 

 Q. What would make this a good week for you?
 BETSY KING: I think, to be honest, if I could make the cut, that would be a pretty good week for, you know, the way I'm hitting it. I have a day and a half to keep turning it around. 
 I was talking to my caddy, and he caddied for me on tour. He caddied for Kathy Whitworth. I'm usually the kind of player that I play better in the tournament than I do in practice, which is a good thing. 
 So I still have hope. But to make the cut I think would be a pretty good week for me. 

 Q. You've played here 16 years ago in the Open. It's been a few years since you have been in an Open, period. What kind of feelings do you have right now this week?
 BETSY KING: Um, well, I'm really trying to, you know, if I were still playing on the tour it would be a different feeling to me that I would have, you know, tried to peak my game for here. You know, I would have been obviously still playing on the tour and playing more events and seeing my pro and working on things more. 
 So it really is a different preparation. I mean, as much as I've practiced the last three weeks, it still is about half or less than half of what I've done when I've been playing. 
 But it's great to be here. I also played here -- the Broadmoor Invitational used to be a pretty big women's event. I don't think they play it anymore, but I played that when I was in college. 
 So, I mean, I like this area. If you have to come and stay here and suffer through the golf for a little while, it makes it worth it to be here with all the amenities that are here. It's fun. It's nice to come out and have people ask you for an autograph again. 
 When you're playing, sometimes you feel like you'd like to get away from that. Well, I have been away from it for four or five years, so I kind of like having that feeling again that, you know, somebody wants your autograph. That's a nice thing.
 THE MODERATOR: How much do you miss it? 
 BETSY KING: You know what? To be honest, if I could play well enough to play, I'd still be playing. That's why 99% of the people that I know that retired, that's why they retired. They just didn't play well enough to keep playing.
 I think if you're at the highest level maybe you could still play a little bit. But, you know, you'd be struggling to make the cut. Who wants to do that week in, week out? 
 So that's why I retired, along with those other things that I mentioned. It was just my time to retire. You can't play forever, no matter who you are. 

 Q. In your time away, have you had a chance to see Yani Tseng play, and your thoughts on kind of what everyone says is the up-and-coming face of women's golf? What are your thoughts?
 BETSY KING: I haven't seen her play much in person, but I watched some of the LPGA and I've seen her other wins. What impresses me about Yani is that she hits the ball. She's strong. She hits it a long way and she keeps it in play. 
 You know, Rochester where she won the LPGA, that's a very tight golf course. To hit it long and in keep it in play is a challenge there. She swings so -- has so much speed. She hits herself on the back on the follow through. That's just an indication that she has that speed. 
 From everything that I've heard her say and read about her, she obviously wants to be No. 1 and, you know, has achieved that. I think what's happened now is that the players peak at an earlier age. With instruction and experience they can win tournaments at 20 years old. 
 So I think that puts their peak years, it just extends that period. The first time I played golf year-round was literally my first year on tour. I played basketball three years in college and played field hockey, and so it took me a while. 
 And in my era, the peak years were maybe late 20s to 30s. But for these young players, they have just extended that, that it's probably 20 to 40 instead of 28 to 40. 

 Q. What do you want your legacy to be? When Rhonda started your introduction, she said you'd pretty much won everything you wanted to win. What do you want your legacy to be in this game?
 BETSY KING: Gosh, you know, I obviously wasn't -- I wasn't a Nancy Lopez, you know, a fan favorite and that kind of thing. Just maybe that I tried my best all the time and I got the best out of what I was given. I really think I developed the God-given talent that I had to the best that I could.
 If I, you know, were to look back on it, I think I wish I would have been a little bit nicer while I was doing it. Not that I was mean, but it's hard, you know. You're out there - there isn't another sport, and I've mentioned this before - when you go to a basketball game you're not up close and personal with the players while they're running around, but in golf you are. 
 You know, it's a hard thing. For some people it comes naturally that they can in between shots relax and talk to people and do all that stuff. But for me that was a challenge. So sometimes it was a little hard for me to maybe respond or open up as much while I was competing. 
 If I could do that over again, I'd try to realize it doesn't take as much as you think it does. You can still be nice and win. That sounds bad, but it's... 
 THE MODERATOR: Let me chime in on that, because I was a media person while you were playing great and doing TV for ABC. You were always polite to everybody you encountered, and you were always a good interview. I think you did just fine. 
 BETSY KING: Thanks, Rhonda. I like talking. Even though everybody thinks I'm quiet, I love talking. I don't mind speaking in front of people. I had the opportunity to do that, and mostly within Christian circles. But, you know, I've given a commencement address at a college. I, you know, speak in front of churches numerous times, and I don't mind it at all. 
 THE MODERATOR: I would like to personally say, Betsy, that we're, all of us in the USGA, so delighted that you qualified, and this championship is a better championship because you are here. 
 BETSY KING: Well, thank you. I have to say when you're, you know, a young 10-year-old making putts, it's always to win the U.S. Open. You know, so that I had that happen, I'm very thankful. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT