MISSISSIPPI GULF RESORT CLASSIC
April 30, 2010
Tom Purtzer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Great start to birdie the first two. Then you sort of lost the pace for lunch a little bit coming in, but that's gonna happen. You played very, very well. 
 TOM PURTZER: Yeah, I played good. You know, I three-putted the last hole, but other than that I hit a good drive and I hit a good second shot. 
 It's just the wind was gusting, and you don't really get a good feel if you've got the right club or No. We just haven't played here enough to really know about the wind, and some shots play long and some shots play short.
 I'm very pleased for first round.

 Q. You had the middle stretch where you birdied four out of five. Tell me about that stretch. 
 TOM PURTZER: Well, I made a long putt on the Par-3, No. 8. Made, I don't know, a 40-footer there. 
 Then hit real close on 9 and then hit it close on -- the two holes I birdied. I guess it's 11 and 12. 
 So I played really good. I hit the ball great. I'm pleased. You know, I've been working hard on changing a few things. It's nice to see a little payoff.

 Q. That's adds to the next question. What have you been working on that you're seeing some results?
 TOM PURTZER: Well, just trying to hit the ball in the middle of the club face again. I never really had a problem with that until the last year or so. I think I'm back on track, so I'm looking forward to the rest of the year.

 Q. That's terrific. The wind and the fact that you played a little bit early, you got maybe a pretty good draw on the weather. The wind kind of blows, from what we saw yesterday and the day before, stronger in the afternoon. You've got to feel good about an early tee time. 
 TOM PURTZER: Yeah, I was pleased with the early tee time. I think more than anything it was the rain. I mean, we had wind this morning, so I think the wind has stayed pretty consistent. 
 I'm glad it's not blowing like they said it was supposed to. If it starts blowing 20, 25 miles around here, it's gonna be really hard. I'm glad for the guys this afternoon that it's not really getting out of control this afternoon. 
 So, you know -- and you don't want the first round of a new tournament, you don't want to have any really bad conditions. 

 Q. Yeah. How much did it bother you when you were 5 and ended up 4? Was the walk from 18 in a little bit -- were you still thinking, yuck or good? 
 TOM PURTZER: No. Shoot, compared to the way I've been playing I'm on Cloud 9. You know, obviously you don't want to finish with a bogey, but 18, I'm not the only one that's going bogey that hole. Just ran my first putt a little bit but about six, seven feet past the hole.
 I just need to -- you know, my putter is still not cooperating. So if I can get that squared away, it'll be fun.

 Q. Last one. The home stretch here: 16, 17, 18... 
 TOM PURTZER: Yeah. Well, even the par-5. Even, what is it, 15? It's a really good hole. It's a good driving hole. They don't give you much room to drive the ball and it's into the wind.
 Once you start coming back this way, you've got to hit a bunch of good shots. 

 Q. Your length? Gotta help you here. 
 TOM PURTZER: Yeah, I've been driving it good. That's hasn't been the problem. It's my iron shots, and I hit a bunch of good iron shots today. 
 Hopefully I can build on this and keep things going and have some fun. That's the bottom line: trying to have fun out here. 

 Q. Well, you made it look easy. 
 TOM PURTZER: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT