U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 6, 2007
Tom Purtzer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  The middle stretch, four birdies in what, six holes. 
  TOM PURTZER: Yeah, it was fun. Starting on 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13. Yeah, that was fun. I played good yesterday, drove it good. I hit a lot of greens. I had a lot of opportunities. I didn't putt very well yesterday. And I made a couple putts today, but left a few of them out there. So I just feel like I'm playing good. So it's fun. It's a brutal golf course, it's very difficult. You can't, you can't fall asleep once out there, so you just try and stay on your toes. 

 Q.  Difference in playing conditions yesterday morning to this afternoon? 
  TOM PURTZER: Today was a beautiful day. Just had a little, gentle breeze today, which, maybe a half a club type of a breeze. 



 Where yesterday, yesterday you really had to hit the ball solid.  And actually I think I might have hit the ball better yesterday.  But yesterday was a more difficult day.  The 66 that Eduardo shot yesterday was phenomenal. 
 Today was, if there's a scoring day on this golf course, it was today.  But I just feel fortunate that I got in with the low round, but I felt like I played good. 

 Q.  Eight 1-putts, was that indicative of what your putter was doing for you today? 
  TOM PURTZER: Well, there weren't any long putts, so I didn't realize I made eight 1-putts, but I definitely putted better yesterday. I think the longest putt I might have made today might have been, the one on 8 might have might have been 15 feet. But outside of that I didn't make any long ones. 

 Q.  Conditions this morning were even milder than this afternoon and you had the low round of the day.  And you were saying it was fine. 
  TOM PURTZER: Well, compared to yesterday, let's put it that way. There was still enough wind that you had to think about where you were going and it definitely would push a ball. 



 But as long as you hit the ball solid, it didn't move it a whole lot.  Like I said, I drove it real good.  I hit it in a lot of fairways and I think that's the key.  That's the key to any, any kind of a USGA event is to keep it in the fairway. 


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT