SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 26, 2006
Tom Purtzer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Tell me a little bit about your round today.  You had to pose a pretty good score, to get right back in the mix of this thing.
TOM PURTZER:  Yeah, I was surprised yesterday that the scores, I thought the scores would be higher than they were yesterday, but I guess there's a lot of good players here.

So I just kind of wanted to, I felt like teeing off this morning that my game's starting to come around, I'm starting to hit it a little better, so I thought if I could just get it back to even par, I would have been, you know, that's, I would like to be back, get back to even par.  And I was fortunate enough, got a couple more there, so it's a good thing.
Q.  Tell me a little bit about your round today.  How did you play today?
TOM PURTZER:  I played good.  I hit the ball close a number of times.  I made one log putt on the back side for a par.  I hit it just over the green and hit a, hit one of those water, like a sprinkler head type thing.  I hit a neat little pitch, and it was going to, it was going to be pretty good.  And it hits this sprinkler head thing and goes about 40 feet.  And I made that putt for par.  So that kind of helped my round out a lot.

But I hit the ball close, I had a number of opportunities for birdies and made a few of them.  So I'm pretty pleased.
Q.  Talk a little bit just about your position going into the weekend.  You're in pretty good shape.
TOM PURTZER:  Well, I don't like ever like to give Gil Morgan four shots or five shots, whatever it is, going to the last two rounds.  But Peter Jacobsen, you know, they're really good players.  So you never know what's going to happen.  If I would happen to shoot a couple good rounds, it would be kind of a fun weekend.  So, you know, you just try and play as good as you can.  You can't really worry about anybody else.  You just try and control your own score, your, what you can, you can only control what you do.  So that's pretty much all I'll try and do.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT