NHL STANLEY CUP FINAL: SHARKS v PENGUINS
June 4, 2016
Bryan Rust
Conor Sheary
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: Questions. 

Q. For either of you guys. What have you observed from Matt Murray that's unique either about his personality or performance among goaltenders?
CONOR SHEARY: Well, I'll say he's a really competitive guy. He might not show it off the ice or whatever, but when he gets on the ice for practice or whatever, he never allows a goal in his net. When he does, he gets pretty pissed off. 
I think that competitive nature just plays over into the game for him. 
BRYAN RUST: As far as for me, his ability to just stay calm throughout all the good and the bad. 

Q. Conor, Bryan suggested or predicted after Game2 that you would receive a zillion texts. What was the aftermath of scoring the overtime winner? Who did you hear from? What was that like for you to have gone through that? 
CONOR SHEARY: Yeah, it was a pretty cool experience. You expect to hear from your close friends and family. It's the same group of people you hear from throughout the whole playoffs. When you score a goal or when you win a series, you kind of hear from the same people. 
It's pretty cool to see the support you actually have because you don't always hear from them. When they do reach out, it's pretty cool to see they're still watching. 

Q. Could each of you give your own experience of the time you first met Mike Sullivan and how it went. What was your initial impression? And also your thought on him leading this team through this playoff run. 
BRYAN RUST: When I first met him, I got a little bit of a vibe that he might be too intense. But then later on in the conversation, he cracked a joke, so I kind of realized I think he might know when to be intense, when to have fun, which I think helps a young guy stay loose. 
CONOR SHEARY: Yeah, I think he just got that kind of echoing voice that demands attention from everyone. I think that's one of the strengths as a coach, he knows how to get through to a player. Whether it's a good thing or a bad thing, he's going to let you know. I think that's his strength. You always know where you stand with him. 

Q. For both you guys, before you got to the NHL, what was the loudest, most hostile building you played in? So far in these playoffs, what is it like to play in a hostile environment?
BRYAN RUST: Before I got here, it would have had to have either been at the University of Michigan, maybe North Dakota or Hershey in the American League. Those three stand out in my mind. 
Being able to come in the NHL and play in some of these rinks with the loud crowds, intimidating environments, it's fun. It kind of seems to give me a little bit more energy, too. 
CONOR SHEARY: Yeah, I think Hershey for AHL. I don't know if I want to give too much credit to any other college team. I'll say UMass was the loudest.

Q. For both you guys, you didn't play full rookie seasons. Going this far in the playoffs, what has that done for your development? How do you feel today compared to maybe at the end of the season? 
CONOR SHEARY: I think we have a pretty similar experience throughout the regular season, me and Rusty. Throughout the playoffs, you kind of mold into a team more than any other time because you always have to stick together. 
I think the older guys in the room have done a great job at bringing us young guys in and making us enjoy the experience while it's here. I think we're just embracing it as much as we can. 
BRYAN RUST: I think as far as what you learn, you learn that consistency, the amount of effort it takes, not only as a player, but as a team, to kind of be able make it far. 

Q. Would you say your biggest assets in the playoffs, especially against the Sharks, are the threats you have in the four different lineups? Is there something different you want to do tonight being in their building?
BRYAN RUST: I think, yeah, I guess on any given night, pretty much any player or any line can kind of step up and play really well, make big plays, score big goals. That's been kind of a huge, important part for us in the playoffs here. 
As far as how tonight goes, I don't think we want to play any different. Matchups might be a little different because they're on home ice. That's kind of what we expect. We just got to keep playing our game. 

Q. Having played for Sullivan, how did that help you be comfortable when you got to the NHL, knowing what he expects, he knows your game, a little bit of a trust level between the two of you? 
CONOR SHEARY: Yeah, I think the trust goes both ways. I think you have to trust your coach to believe in his system. We always had a really good start in Wilkes‑Barre for anyone who's following, so we kind of knew the system worked. When we came up here, we already knew what was going on, how he was going to run the team. It was an easy transition for a lot of us. 
BRYAN RUST: To be able to see how he runs a team in the American League, what kind of player you are, what situations you thrive in, makes a big difference when you come up to the NHL. He knows you can play in those certain situations. 

Q. With the passing of Muhammad Ali yesterday, do either of you have an iconic memory and if his life shaped your life at all?
CONOR SHEARY: Just his competitive nature was above all else, I think. Obviously that famous picture of him. Just his competitive nature, you always follow that as a kid. He's a little bit older than our generation. You look at those things and learn how to compete like he did. 
BRYAN RUST: For me, it's seeing the legacy that he built for himself, how so many people admired him, respected him, saw him as a great role model. It's just one of those things you can learn from. 
It's sad to have this happen, but it's also a time to celebrate his life. 
THE MODERATOR: Thanks, guys. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT