MLB ALL-STAR GAME
July 6, 1998
Juan Gonzalez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. What does it mean to you that McGwire talked about how amazed he is at what you've
done with the runs batted in to date, how overwhelmed he is, how he's so impressed what
with what you're doing?
 
 JUAN GONZALEZ: You know, this is a different thing, trying to hit home runs. The big
guy right now in baseball. I'm trying to drive in my RBIs, you know. The thing is, staying
healthy all season. Have a good chance at breaking the home run record. I'm in the race
for the RBI record, too. You know, I never pass in my mind anytime the record. I'm trying
day by day, one at a time. 
 
Q. How much of a student of the game are you and how much do you study the game?
 
 JUAN GONZALEZ: I learning a lot, watching the best hitter in baseball, like Gwynn,
Griffey, a lot of guys. The pitches are different every time. We see the same pitchers. We
need to stay positive and a have a lot of concentration. 
 
Q. How much does it mean for you to be here with your buddies, Pudge?
 
 JUAN GONZALEZ: I'm feeling really happy, we played little league together, both playing
from Puerto Rico. I'm real happy because two guys from the same town starting in the
All-Star Game tomorrow night. I'm real happy. 
 
Q. Do Latino players get enough credit in the Major Leagues?
 
 JUAN GONZALEZ: The last five or ten years has more credit for Latin players. The Latin
players are working so hard and have put up some great numbers, Pedro Martinez -- few
years before from Latin America, trying so hard, good players. 
 
Q. I know in Boston right now, Pedro Martinez, there's a lot of excitement in Boston.
Do you think that can be carried out with other players if Major League Baseball market
their Latin players to everyone and the Latin people in those cities?
 
 JUAN GONZALEZ: Right now you see the promotion around all baseball for Latin players.
For example, the Latin players great. You see in New York a lot of places right now, see
the big recognition for Latin players. The Latin players very well right now. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT