PURE SILK CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY VISIT WILLIAMSBURG
May 25, 2019
Jennifer Song
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Going into tomorrow trying to get that elusive first victory, what will it be like for you emotionally?
JENNIFER SONG: Even just thinking about it right now I get pretty emotional.  I know I still have one more round to go and I feel very confident about my game and can stay patient out there.
I'm just glad that I'm still in contention going into the final round.
Q. You hit some good shots, especially coming down the stretch.  You got fooled by a couple putts.  You mentioned patience.  How hard is it to stay patient on the greens when you know you're hitting good putts?
JENNIFER SONG: Yeah, it was kind of tough out there.  I thought I was rolling it very well and I pretty much hit every line that I wanted to hit it.
Yeah, definitely coming in I think it was my 16th hole it was a short birdie putt.  For sure I thought it was going to break a little right-to-left and it broke right on me right at the start.
So kind of disappointing, but I tried to stay positive.  I'm hitting good shots and I'm putting it well, so I feel really good.
Q. Are you the type of player who if in contention playing well tomorrow will be looking at the scoreboards throughout the back nine?
JENNIFER SONG: No, I usually don't look at it.  Actually, that's a lie.  I used to look at it here and there but my caddie told me if I look at it I have to pay him a hundred bucks each glance I take, so I try not to look at it.
Q. What a round to put together out there to be in contention going into tomorrow.  How comfortable were you out there on the course today?
JENNIFER SONG: I was pretty comfortable.  I felt really good about my game.  Just when I was warming up everything seemed to be in good shape.
I was just happy to be out here.  Definitely under par in the third round is obviously great to have that score.  Going into the final round it's always great to be in that position.
Q. It's a crowded leaderboard out there and you are in contention to get your first win out here on the LPGA Tour.  What does that mean to you?
JENNIFER SONG: I mean, I still have one more round to go.  It would definitely mean a lot for me.  Also Pure Silk has been my former sponsor, so for me to win the championship I think it would be awesome.
Q. Out here got a little hot.  Tomorrow the weather might be a little bit more brutal.  How are you dealing with the weather and staying patient out on those greens?
JENNIFER SONG: Yeah, I mean, the toughest part about today was the wind was just switching here and there.  It was kind of hard to make decisions with my club.
Yeah, I was rolling it really well.  I mean, coming in I think I missed couple good birdie opportunities, but I definitely feel confident about my game.
Q. I think you bogeyed 12 maybe.  How important was it for you to get that birdie on 18?
JENNIFER SONG: 12, yeah, I was in a flier lie but then it was a spot where I can't leave myself short, so I took the club that I knew that I was going to fly the front.
Obviously the ball jumped on me so just flew more than I expected so the ball went over.  I mean, I managed to come out with a bogey, so definitely coming in making that birdie on the 18th hole and making myself be in a position where I'm one back of the leader, I think it's a great way to go in the final round.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT