HONDA LPGA THAILAND
February 21, 2019
Jennifer Song
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You've been Thailand for a little while.  Tell us what you got up to last week.
JENNIFER SONG: I was in Chiang Rai before I came to this event.  I was just trying to get used to the time zone and get used to the heat, so I think was very really prepared for this week.
Q. A little bit of a training camp of sorts.  How many hours of golf were you tossing in per day?
JENNIFER SONG: 24 hours.  No, I was just -- I played 18 in the morning and the did a little bit of practice in the afternoon.  I was pretty much done by like 3:00 or 4:00, so I just chilled in the afternoon.
But there was really nothing else to do where I e was staying, so I was resting pretty well.
Q. So you're saying isolation is key for good golf.
JENNIFER SONG: That is key.
Q. You're part of what we've always dubbed the Orlando Crew.  A lot of you help each other out with your swings.  I understand that you've installed a net in your backyard as well.  Tell us about how that all works.
JENNIFER SONG: I mean, like sure Orlando is known for nice weather, but I don't know, for some reason this winter we had some cold fronts coming in.  I did not feel like going out there to practice, so I just decided to buy some nets in the back of my house, so I been practicing at home.  It's been very convenient.
Q. I understood Eun Hee kind of does the same thing; Sung Hyun Park has also got a net in her backyard.  Do you go around for parties, you know, check out each other's swings?
JENNIFER SONG: Yeah, we do that, but actually I was the original one.  I am the O.G.  I bought it in mid-December and everybody else decided to follow me.
Q. (In progress.)
JENNIFER SONG: I was very happy.  I had a little hiccups coming in the last couple holes, and then I'm very happy about my first round of the tournament.
I putted well.  Back nine I think my shots were actually better, but just couldn't drop couple putts.  But I feel good for the rest of the week.
Q. Greens look pretty tricky; did you find them that way?
JENNIFER SONG: Actually, I love playing on fast greens, so I think the condition itself is perfect for me right now.  I'm really enjoying the tournament right now.
Q. Used to the heat?
JENNIFER SONG: Uh-huh.
Q. Great.  Good luck tomorrow.  Great round today.
JENNIFER SONG: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT