ANA INSPIRATION
April 1, 2018
Jennifer Song
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I know you're disappointed about being knocked out of the playoff, but to put yourself in this position against Pernilla Lindberg who led most of this tournament, and Inbee Park, one of the greatest players in LPGA history, especially that clutch putt you made on the 72nd hole, what have you learned about yourself today?
JENNIFER SONG: I know that I can be up here, and I'm kind of disappointed that I wasn't able to make those putts in the playoffs, but I learned a lot.  I'm very grateful, and I'm just loving this moment right now.
Q. Not only sinking your first LPGA Tour title, but this was your chance to win a major.  What does this tell you about yourself and your game moving forward, and what you take away from this?  What can we expect from Jennifer Song in the future?
JENNIFER SONG: I definitely think that I improved over the last years and I feel very confident about my game.  I definitely see myself in contention in more tournaments.  I'm just really excited for everything.
Q. I know you had a lot of close friends down there pulling for you, including SH Park, a major champion.  What did she say to you and what can you learn from her experience?
JENNIFER SONG: She just said have fun.  They didn't say anything.  They just nodded at me, so I just nodded back.  But just the look on both of their faces, we're just good friends, so we don't need any words.
Q. You started the round four strokes off the lead, and obviously it's been a really long day.  Can you just take us through your emotions right now?
JENNIFER SONG: Well, I've never been in this position in a major event, and I just wanted to embrace myself and just take one shot at a time.  I actually, coming on to the 18th hole, I did not realize what position I was in, and after I made my third shot, I took a look at the scoreboard and realized that I was tied for first.  I knew that I needed to make that short birdie putt to go in a playoff, and I made it.
So I was really happy about everything, and I'm just very grateful for all the moments I had to go through today.
Q. What is the biggest thing you'll take away from today, your experience?
JENNIFER SONG: I think going into more tournaments for the season, I feel very confident.  I'm just excited that I have more room to improve.  So we'll see how it goes.
Q. Can you just talk about this crowd here, especially in this playoff, you've got everyone watching you three players right here.  Can you tell us what you felt when you were hearing everyone calling your names?
JENNIFER SONG: Yeah, the crowds were great, and I went to SC for two years, so it's really great to have California spectators out here, and I just felt like I was home.  The whole atmosphere was just amazing.
Q. Your first win might have been a major championship.
JENNIFER SONG: Yeah.
Q. How did you keep your cool?
JENNIFER SONG: I was pretty cool until I learned that I had to go to a playoff.  But by the time I got to the tee box I was actually really calm, but on the putting green I kind of had a hard time breathing, but Aaron just calmed me down.  He just said, have fun out there, I deserve to be here, so that's exactly what I did.
Q. Can you talk a little bit more about your relationship with the caddie and how that went today?
JENNIFER SONG: I started with Aaron this year, and this is my fifth event with him.  He just feels like my big brother.  He tries to make me comfortable out there.  I don't think I could get any better help.
Q. How do you feel about just your position at this point in the season, and what do you hope to accomplish by the end?
JENNIFER SONG: I definitely want to win an LPGA event out here, but today I learned that I could be in that spot, so I'll do my best to get that win.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT