SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY ACER
June 2, 2017
Jennifer Song
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Jennifer, another solid round out there today.  What was the key?  
JENNIFER SONG: I had a great time.  It was a bogey-free round and I made a lot of putts out there.  I missed one short putt on 16, so kind of upset about that.   
Overall, I shot 6-under without bogey.  I'll take it any day.   
 Q.  You've been playing really strongly as of late.  Had a good finish in Ann Arbor.  What's been clicking in your game?  
JENNIFER SONG: My timing has been kind of off so I was working on my tempo a lot and just making a little bit adjustment on my tempo, and it's been great since the then.   
 Q.  Did you make any long putts today?  
JENNIFER SONG: Yeah, I made some great up and downs.  I had a long par putt.  I don't remember the hole exactly, but there are two holes I have 15-, 20-footer par putt and I drained it.  I think that just kept me going.   
 Q.  Was there a hole that got you going earlier today or shot that got you on your way?  
JENNIFER SONG: Well, I took a lot of advantage of the par-5s.  I think I made birdies on all of them.  The ones that -- it was reachable, so I was very aggressive with my play.  Overall I think was able to do as my plan.   
 Q.  How did you find the conditions, the course, and the breeze?  
JENNIFER SONG: The breeze was starting to pick up on the back nine.  Greens were a little softer compared to last year.   
I mean, I think I'm just having a lot of fun out here.   
 Q.  You mentioned working with your tempo.  How tough is that to take that from working on the range to the course in tough conditions?  
JENNIFER SONG: Yeah, I think it's the hardest thing for me to fix because in general I have a very quick tempo.  So trying to slow myself down is a hard task for me, but I think I'm doing a good job.   
 Q.  What is your history here?  What is your best finish here?  How have you done generally?  
JENNIFER SONG: I think because I don't remember, I don't I think I finished well.  (Laughter.)  Hopefully this week I'll play strong for the next two days.   
 Q.  You're the leader now, but what it means being at the top of the leaderboard.  
JENNIFER SONG: It's definitely a great feeling to start off leader in the first round.  It's anybody's game until we finish the final round.  I'll just do my best and take one day at a time.   
 Q.  Does it give you an advantage?  This is a 54-hole event, so a quick start helps you more here I guess.  
JENNIFER SONG: Yeah, I think that's why I love this event.  It's a three-day and I don't get so tired.  Crowds are great, food is great, so I am just having a blast out here.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT