SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY ACER
October 3, 2020
Jennifer Song
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Jennifer, nothing like a bogey-free round; on top of that, a closing birdie on 18.  How do you feel now that you're off the golf course?
JENNIFER SONG:   I'm really excited, and it was pretty long day out there.  I was just trying to be patient and just do my thing.
But worked out fine.  I'm really happy about my bogey-free round.
Q. What really clicked for you do you think in those opening holes?  You had a number of birdies throughout your round, but what was really clicking for you out there?
JENNIFER SONG:   Well, when I missed my birdie putt on No. 3, the easy par-5 where you can reach it in two, I was kind of kind of disappointed.  I had to kind of tell myself to be just patient, I have a lot of the holes and I'm going to have a lot of opportunities.
I just kept telling myself be myself and just go at it, have fun.
Q. I was going to say, I was talking to Andy right before you came out here.  He said when you are getting good you get into your head and just keep plowing through.  Do you like to think about every single shot like that?
JENNIFER SONG:   I'm definitely a thinker, so I have to slow myself down, and I think Andy does a great job helping me out out there just to stay patient and stay focused on the present.
So far our teamwork has been awesome.
Q. And then you were saying that you didn't realize what you were doing.  Without the leaderboards it's a little difficult.  When did you realize t that maybe you were doing some great stuff out there?
JENNIFER SONG:   Yeah, it is kind of difficult without the scoreboard, but once you notice the camera crews you're like, Oh, I think I'm doing something right because they're following me.
So that kind of gave me an idea that I'm playing well.  I wasn't really paying attention to how many birdies I was making out there.  Just trying to play one shot at a time and it worked out really well.
Q. What is there in your mind to work on before heading into tomorrow, and what does a bogey-free round like today do for your confidence going into a final round?
JENNIFER SONG:   I love it.  First and third round it was bogey-free, and I just want keep that going and have the same momentum going into tomorrow.  I'm not going to change a lot of things.  I think just focus on my rhythm and be aggressive out there.
There is going to be a lot of low numbers tomorrow, so I think I just have to fight for it.
Q. Is this the best position you've been in going into the final round this season?
JENNIFER SONG:   I think so.
Q. She got close in Scotland.  Yeah, I saw your great tournament in Scotland.
JENNIFER SONG:   Yes, I did.  Yeah, I like to be in contention, but I like to stay behind so I can catch the leaders going into the final round.  So I'm exactly where I want to be.
Q. How do you keep your emotions in check?  I know it's been a long career for you without a victory.  What would a victory mean tomorrow and how can you not think about it?
JENNIFER SONG:   I mean, it would be awesome to have -- go home with a victory.  To be honest, nothing is done until I finish that final putt in the final round, so I'm really not thinking about that.  I'm just going to focus on my game.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT