SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY ACER
October 2, 2020
Jennifer Song
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. So you managed a 2-under par even with three bogeys today.  How did it feel to shoot under par maybe when sometimes you may have been struggling?
JENNIFER SONG:   Yeah, this morning I was a little chilly, so I think that played a factor in my game.  I'm not good with cold weather.  I kind of felt out of sync.
So in the middle I felt out of sync, and somehow I just managed to just get through.  I was really happy that I made two birdies coming in the last three holes.
Q. How do you anticipate -- just looking ahead at the weekend; top the leaderboard right now -- what you might need to do to continue to climb up the leaderboard?
JENNIFER SONG:   I think it's really important to be on the fairway here.  The rough is -- could get a little heavy and tough to get out.
But other than that, just keep getting it on the green and give myself a chance for birdie putt.
If I keep putting well like that I've been doing this week, I think I'll do fine.
Q. You manage mentioned yesterday that your short game is obviously your strong suit.  Was there any holes that stood out today when you were playing that maybe was a really good par save or the birdie really stood out to you that kind of helped regain some confidence?
JENNIFER SONG:   To be honest, today was a little bit of slow day, so I don't have anything that really stood out.
But on the last hole, par-5, which was my 9th hole, I had like 42 yards to the hole and then I chipped it for a tap-in birdie.  So I think that was the highlight of my day.
Q. Besides the coolness of the weather, did the course play any different from yesterday afternoon to today?
JENNIFER SONG:   Definitely playing longer because of the temperature, lower temperature.  I think it was a little windier in the morning.
But other than that, you know, it warmed up the last through holes so turned out to be a beautiful day.
Q. I would imagine with you saying it was kind of slow you have to feel pretty good when you can look at the leaderboard and you're only three shots back of the lead.
JENNIFER SONG:   Uh-huh, definitely feels good, and I'm exactly where I want to be.  I like to chase from behind, so I'm looking forward to the next two rounds.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT