SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY ACER
October 1, 2020
Jennifer Song
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Bogey-free today.  How did that feel?
JENNIFER SONG:   Yeah, it felt amazing.  On the front nine I had some trouble where I chipped and I still -- like I was trying to make up and down and I didn't get on the green, so I was on the fringe.
One hole I chipped it in for par, and then another hole I did another chip shot; left it short, but putted off the fringe and went in the hole.
Things were going pretty well for me.  When I did have the birdie chances, I was able to roll a couple putts in.  So I think that helped me shoot low score today.
Q. That's pretty good, because we saw a few -- I feel like the conditions might have been a little more challenging with maybe how wet it was at certain points.
JENNIFER SONG:   Yeah.
Q. We saw a few players that chunked some chips, so it had to feel good with the conditions to do what you did.
JENNIFER SONG:   Uh-huh.  Well, yeah, when I was in Portland I was sort of the struggling with my short game.  I mean, it was decent but short game is one of my strengths, and I felt like it wasn't quite there.
So last week in Orlando I was working on my short game a lot, so even though -- you know, you can't always make GIR in one -- when I made mistakes I was pretty confident off the green, so I think that really helped me a lot.
Q. When you can start off like that at 6-under and you're only two off the lead after day one - obviously a long way to go - but when you can start off on a course that's very scorable, how much confidence does that give you?
JENNIFER SONG:   It feels really good.  Every time you start off with a good score you feel like, man, I worked on the right things and I feel really good out there.
So I'm just hoping that I stick to the same game plan and have fun the rest of the rounds.
Q. Is there a different game plan on this course specifically when you have four rounds instead of just the three we're used to?
JENNIFER SONG:   Not so much, but the only difference with this week, it's been wet, so compared to like other years I could really be aggressive with my irons because the ball is just going to stick.
So I'm trying to take advantage of that and be aggressive with my -- where I want to flight my ball.  I think that's been good to me.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT