U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 11, 2014
Will Thomson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  WILL THOMSON: It was a lot of fun.  The entire experience was awesome.  I started off with a birdie on the first hole, so that was exciting.  A little bit of a grind, but it was awesome.Q. Are you ever intimidated at all being out here and being so young?WILL THOMSON: I mean, a little bit.  Not even by all the players, but just also by the golf course.  It's really long for me.  So I have a bunch of long clubs into the greens, and I had a lot of good shots today that are just hard to get close to the pins with hybrids and long irons.Q. I heard somebody joke that there is probably somebody out here that has a bag or a club that is older than you are.WILL THOMSON: Yeah, I don't know.  I feel pretty young out here definitely.Q. Who taught you how to play golf and what is your earliest recollection of playing?WILL THOMSON: I started when I was 3.  I went out to my home club.  They have a par-3 course out there.  My mom kind of took me out and hit the ball around.  Didn't really think much of it.  But started getting serious when I was 7 or 8, and I got to work with my coach Joe Lusardi and my trainer Ron (Indiscernible) when I was 10 years old, and that's when I started to really get a lot better, and this year, this up summer has been awesome.Q. What do your friends say when they're out doing other stuff and getting ready to start school and you're doing this?WILL THOMSON: They think it's cool but they don't really understand.  They don't care that much because it's golf.  But some of them are pretty proud of me, so it's nice to have that.Q. You get a little street cred when you go back home?WILL THOMSON: A little bit maybe, yeah.Q. What is different about playing in this as opposed to playing in a 9-hole high school match?WILL THOMSON: The competition, first of all.  Some people are shooting really high numbers in high school matches, so length and difficulty of the course is so much different.  It's a lot tougher out here and the conditions also.  Like this course is literally in perfect shape.  The greens are amazing, the fairways are awesome, and the rough is great too, so it's a lot different.Q. To have Joe on your bag, is that a comfort to you because he does coach you year round?WILL THOMSON: Yeah, definitely.  He's a really good putter too, so he helps read putts a bunch.  He really just keeps me focused out there and helps me grind it in down the stretch.Q. Where do you play normally?WILL THOMSON: I play at Oak Hills Country Club.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT