MOTEL 6 CACTUS BOWL: WEST VIRGINIA VS ARIZONA STATE
December 31, 2015
Wendell Smallwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
WENDELL SMALLWOOD: The most important thing is to come out of this bowl game with a win.  It's nice to be out here and win.  When we're older, we're going to remember winning or losing.  That's what is going to make us or break us.
Q. What has this experience been like for you this week?
WENDELL SMALLWOOD: It's been great being out here, being in the town I'm pretty used to, being with the guys, being able to hang out with them, see new places, not be where we're normally at in West Virginia.  I think it's been fun for everybody.
Q. The last time West Virginia was here, do you have any memories of that?
WENDELL SMALLWOOD: I don't even remember that.  I don't think I was watching football.
Q. What does it mean for you guys to have this opportunity to go out as a winner in this bowl game?  How does that set the tone for what lies ahead next year?
WENDELL SMALLWOOD: I think winning this game means everything to us.  Being out here, knowing we can win the game.  I think especially for our seniors, sending our seniors out right, heading into next year with a win, a lot of momentum, I think this one is going to be big for us.
Q. Big 12 versus the PAC-10, is there conference pride?
WENDELL SMALLWOOD: I think it means a lot for us.  I know a lot of guys in the PAC-10, they talk a lot of crap.  We argue every day about who's the better conference.
I think this is my chance to go out there and prove it, that the Big 12 can beat up on the PAC-10 or PAC-12, whatever it is.
Q. What do you know about the defense?  It's a blitzing defense.  Is it going to be important for the runningbacks to be able to pick up the blitz or the block?  What kind the problems does it present for your O-line?
WENDELL SMALLWOOD: I think guys just got to keep calm and be confident.  We've been working on the blitz for up to three weeks now, picking up a lot of blitzes.  I think we're going to be well-prepared for it.
I know they do it a lot.  It's either hit-or-miss with them sometimes.  I've seen them give up pretty big plays on the passing game.  I think we're going to be able to take advantage of that, too.
Q. What do you see as a whole from Arizona State, general scouting report?
WENDELL SMALLWOOD: Their defense, they blitz a lot, very aggressive, very physical.  I think all their DBs are really physical.  They try to cause havoc on that side of the ball.
They play a lot of man coverage.  Our receivers are going to be able to step up.  Watching film, a lot of guys had big plays on them.  They miss tackles and things like that.
Q. Who stands out to you specifically on defense?
WENDELL SMALLWOOD: I watched the D-line.  I think they stick out to me a lot.  Them guys are aggressive.  I don't know their names, just their numbers.  32, 17, 1, a good edge rusher.  That's what I've been focusing on with most of the film.
Q. What have you got to experience out here in Arizona so far?
WENDELL SMALLWOOD: Last night we got to go out to a good steakhouse.  A lot of guys ate too much.  It was great food, nice place to be.
Q. What did you end up putting down?
WENDELL SMALLWOOD: I couldn't even pronounce some of the stuff I was eating.  Pretty good.
Q. You going to call anybody out for overeating?
WENDELL SMALLWOOD: Shell had a couple plates.  I believe he was the last person to get up.  He ate so much.  I think he's going to try to run it off today.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT