SAN DIEGO STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 20, 2018
Ryan Agnew
Kyahva Tezino
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
San Jose State - 13, San Diego State - 16   
 Q.  I know this isn't obviously the be all end and all for you, but you are Bowl eligible again, I think for the ninth straight year.  I think for 11 years before that there was never a Bowl game played here.  I know that's not your ultimate goal, but what do you think that says about this program now?  
RYAN AGNEW: That's big time.  We set goals at the beginning of the year, and ultimate one is to win a conference championship and the next one is to earn a Bowl game.  That's what you have to do is go out and earn it.   
San Jose State gave us everything we could handle tonight.  They are an outstanding football team.  Their record doesn't show it but at the end of the day we got the win and like you said, we are Bowl eligible, which we are all happy about that.   
 Q.  What do you think about that?  
KYAHVA TEZINO: We are excited to be Bowl eligible for the ninth straight year like you said.  We just have to get better overall as a team, defense, offense, special teams.  You know, we are winning games but it's always coming down to the wire.  We're better than what you guys have seen.  We just have to prepare better and just come out and do it.   
 Q.  Several games have been hanging in the balance in the fourth quarter, but you guys have pulled them out.  What do you think has enabled you to do that consistently?  
KYAHVA TEZINO: Probably mental toughness.  Just the kind of guys that our coaches preach us to be is to never give up and so that probably has a lot to do with it and our physicality maybe, so yeah.   
 Q.  Can you talk about the running game?  It seems like y'all could put anyone in there, you have Chance, Chase, Kaegun.  Can you talk about the run game and how you're able to plug-and-play just a different running backs?  
RYAN AGNEW: Yeah, the running game was working at some points.  I think we ran for over 200 yards.  That's a good testament to our offensive line and receivers blocking, tight ends blocking.   
Like you said we can plug in anyone, and they are going to get the job done.  We trust them to do everything we can.  We just have to work on finishing and we have to work on when we get in the red zone and we have to work on scoring touchdowns rather than field goals.   
 Q.  Do you ever stop being amazed by your kicker?  
RYAN AGNEW: Never will stop being amazed.  Never.  He's amaze.   
KYAHVA TEZINO: Not at all.  He's great.  Awesome.   
 Q.  Can you talk about the passing game tonight?  
RYAN AGNEW: Yeah, it wasn't where we wanted it to be.  They didn't give us many opportunity to throw the ball.  They were saying, you know, they want us to run the football and they did an excellent job containing us and hat is off to them.  They did a great job coming in preparing and we need to do better on our part because if we do our job the way we're supposed to do it, no one should be able to stop us.   
 Q.  What were you telling the offense:  Three-and-out, fumble, down 6-0, what did you tell the offense to get it back in motion for the second quarter?  
RYAN AGNEW: We just have to stay hungry.  We can't look down on each other.  You know, when someone fumbles or we go three-and-out, you can't be pointing fingers because you have a lot of game left.   
At that moment it was 6-0 in the first quarter so we have, you know, three-plus quarters to go, so you can't look down.  You have to move forward, let it go and move on to the next p   
 Q.  Can you talk about the defense on third down?  Do you feel like you need to be better on third down?  
KYAHVA TEZINO: Yeah, we need to be better at everything honestly, covering, passing, running.  As a defense, we hold ourselves to a higher standard, so whenever we go against an opponent, we expect them to score no points.  That's just plain and simple.  We've just got to do better.   
 Q.  Do you think there's an extra weight when you give up that third down, as opposed to first or second down?  
KYAHVA TEZINO: Of course, because third down, you can always get off the field.  That's the goal, to get off the field.  So when they get a third down, it's like, okay, now this is where the mental toughness comes in, so you have to keep going and never give up.   
 Q.  You had another game of double-digits tackles.  Individually do you feel you're doing your part on defense?  
KYAHVA TEZINO: I'm just trying to give my best effort for the teal.  Whatever happens, happens.  Tackles, tackles.  I'm just going to give my best so we can come out and win games.   
 Q.  How would you rate this defensive performance?  
KYAHVA TEZINO: We just probably didn't come out as well.  San Jose obviously came out ready to go.  We just took it for granted with the coaches and everyone, and like Agnew said, their record doesn't show how good they really are and we took it for granted and we probably took got a little ahead of ourselves.  And yeah, hopefully that game just humbled us and we can just get back.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT