SAN DIEGO STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 22, 2018
Ryan Agnew
John Baron II
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








San Diego State - 23, Eastern Michigan - 20 (OT)
Q. The game winner was good?
JOHN BARON II: Yeah, it was awesome.
Q. What was your mindset, just like any other kick on that, or did you feel a little something extra?
JOHN BARON II: It was definitely nerve-racking.  It was a pressure kick, but I'm happy it went in.
Q. (Indiscernible) on that other one, weren't you?
JOHN BARON II: Which one?  I don't even remember.  I don't know what you're talking about.  (Laughter).
Q. Was there any feeling of redemption after missing one earlier and then making?
JOHN BARON II: Yeah, definitely a feeling of redemption.  A feeling of relief.  That team was really good and they came here to play here tonight.  And I'm happy we pulled it off.
Q. John, how do you kind of come back -- you look like you pulled the one you missed.  So how do you kind of come back from that mentally as far as the next preparation to kick?
JOHN BARON II: You just have to have a quick memory.  You gotta forget about it.  That's part of the job.  You just gotta move on.  There's nothing you can do about that when it happens and it definitely isn't a good thing.  It sucks.  You feel like you hurt the team.  But it always feels good when you get another chance and get to go out there and redeem yourself.
Q. John, how many times have you found yourself in that spot at the end to win a game like that?
JOHN BARON II: In college?  One time, really.  In overtime like that.  That's my first time.
Q. Is that something you kind of relish?
JOHN BARON II: Kind of relish?  No.
Q. To be in a position like that to win a game?
JOHN BARON II: You always want to help the team.  So when that opportunity comes, you always want to make the most out of it and help the team the best way you can, but I mean you don't really -- you don't yearn for that moment all the time.  But if it comes, definitely want to be ready and that's what our job is.
Q. Was there more pressure on the kick before that because it was longer and you've got to make that?
JOHN BARON II: That was -- that was a scary kick just because we went out there and the snap was high.  We were kind of rushed.  And then Brandon put it down and I'm looking at the ball and it was just straight laces in my face.  So I just was like just hit the ball, and I put my foot through and the rest is history.
Q. That's the tougher end also?
JOHN BARON II: What was that?
Q. Wasn't that the tougher end?
JOHN BARON II: Not that late at night.  There's no wind or anything.  It's pretty calm.
Q. The field is pretty chewed up.  What were you looking at when you went out there?  Did it surprise you first of all and was there any concern?
JOHN BARON II: Before every game you walk the field, you get a feel for how it is, where you're going to kick off, how the field looks.  You kind of multiply that by ten by the end of the game and it's like everywhere on the field it's pretty tore up.  That's what you get when you play on grass.  But you don't think about that.
Q. You smiled when I first started to ask that.  It did look different, though, than even at the end of last game.  Did you look at it and think:  What the heck happened?
JOHN BARON II: No, I didn't think -- you expect it when you play on grass like that.  We're a run team.  So you expect the field to be pretty tore up.  So it wasn't surprised or anything.
Q. Ryan, what's it like to have a weapon like that on your team when you know that you could bog down in a big, big situation like that and have somebody like that --
RYAN AGNEW: It means the world, especially in these situations.  John's one of the best that I've ever seen kick the football.  And he's the captain of our football team and you can see why he's the captain.  In pressure situations he rose to the challenge.  He missed that one kick but we also had the most confidence in him.  When we went down, we gave him the 51-yarder, I didn't even really sweat it that much because I knew J.B. was going to make it.
Q. Ryan, why do you think you had so many struggles in the second half trying to get on the scoreboard?
RYAN AGNEW: Eastern Michigan is a great football team.  First and foremost their defense came to play.  They had a great plan.  They swarmed to the football and we gotta give hats off to them.  But all that matters is we made a couple more plays than them.
Q. Originally in the first half obviously played pretty well, too, two touchdown passes.  Talk a little bit about that.
RYAN AGNEW: Great play calls.  Coaches put us in a great situation.  We have been working all week.  They told us what was going to happen, what they think is going to happen.  The receivers executed great.  The "O" line blocked tremendous.  The running backs blocked, the tight ends blocked.  And my job is just to get it in the hands of the playmakers.  And it's a lot easier when they're wide open especially Busbee and Parker, I put it where they can catch it and the rest is history.
Q. What happened on the interception?
RYAN AGNEW: Terrible decision by me.  I can't do that especially with coming into half.  We have all the momentum up 17-3.  Just terrible decision by me.  That's all my fault.
Q. Looked like you were expecting somebody to be there.  Is that where somebody should have been there but you still looked at it and not thrown the ball?
RYAN AGNEW: I just, third and 10, bad stick.  Before the half.  Should have either thrown it away, try to find another read but that's obviously my fault.
Q. Overall, how do you think the offense played tonight?
RYAN AGNEW: I think the offense played well enough to get the victory.  And that's all that really matters when we go and watch the film.  Then we go see where we need to improve, but when we get one more point it's successful for us.
Q. Do you do something in the second half to stop the ball?
RYAN AGNEW: Like I said, they're a great football team.  Hats off to them.  They really played well and they really came wanting to win and I think honestly why they played so in the second half I threw that interception gave them all the momentum.  If I didn't throw that interception, we go up by two scores.  Could have been a whole different ballgame the second half and J.B. wouldn't have had to save the day.  But hindsight is 2020.  But I'm glad for the victory.
Q. John, on the game winner there, you kind of happy they centered it up for you right in the middle?
JOHN BARON II: Every Thursday we practice that like those exact moments and pressure kicks and that type of stuff.  So I was really happy that they did.  But, yeah, it wasn't something that I haven't seen before or anything like that.  It was all planned.
Q. I don't want to put you on the spot but do you have any idea what it's going to take to win a grow so award or win an All-American win, is it too political to even guess?
JOHN BARON II: No, I don't get caught up in that stuff I try to help my team win, make kicks, I don't think about that stuff.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT