CAPITAL ONE ORANGE BOWL: FLORIDA STATE VS MICHIGAN
December 28, 2016
Ryan Glasgow
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Did you just get out of bed?
RYAN GLASGOW: Yeah, I rolled out about an hour ago.
Q. Do you want some coffee?
RYAN GLASGOW: I'm trying to save it for before practice.  I don't want to waste it now.
Q. A lot of the offensive players talk about being familiar with Don Brown's defense; has he talked to you about what he saw from when he coached at Boston College or is it just based on what you've watched on film this year?
RYAN GLASGOW: Yeah, we've watched a lot of Boston College tape, just similar fronts, similar schemes.  Yeah, he talks about it.  He talks about defending Florida State in the past.  He realizes that it's kind of a different offense than last year, different dynamic, different quarterback, some new offensive linemen, so we're preparing for it as if it's like a new game, but just taking what he knows from the past and trying to apply it.
Q. They've been complimentary, both sides have been complimentary, they know the Michigan defensive line is going to be a tough task.  What have you seen out of the Florida State offensive line, guys like Rodrick up there?
RYAN GLASGOW: They're big guys.  You know, I mean, the two guards and the tackles are huge.  I think everyone is over like 310.  The center is pretty big guy, as well, and they move pretty well.  They secure their blocks, and they do a good enough job, help Dalvin Cook rush for 1,600 yards in a season, so yeah, I think they're pretty good.  I know that they've given up a lot of sacks, but that's a symptom of one holding the ball at the quarterback position, too.
Q. On that note, a guy like Deondre who can do it on his feet and do it with his arm, too, how much have you kind of talked about the importance of containing him and not allowing him to kind of run wild?
RYAN GLASGOW: Oh, we've talked about it a lot.  Whether it's on the quarterback-designed runs or the scrambles, he does get out, and he's a tough kid.  He takes a lot of shots, doesn't go down, and he's trying to pick up the tough extra yards that a lot of quarterbacks wouldn't really want to pick up, so that's been my impression on film.  So yeah, we have talked about containing him and trying to keep him in the pocket.
Q. What sets Dalvin Cook apart that really makes him special?
RYAN GLASGOW: I'd venture to say he's probably the best running back I've watched on film in college.  Just kind of everything about his game, the way he sets up his blocks, the way he can make a man miss in space, his breakaway speed.  It's pretty amazing to see.
Q. Would you go as far as to say that he might be if not the best running back that you've played against, is he up there?
RYAN GLASGOW: Yeah, I'd say so for sure.
Q. Would you put him up top?
RYAN GLASGOW: Yeah.  I mean, there might be someone I'm forgetting, Ezekiel Elliott, Barkley, those two guys are up there, but he's definitely top three.
Q. When you look at the amount of talent on both sides, this could shape up to be one of the better bowl games of the bowl season; have you thought about that?
RYAN GLASGOW: Yeah, I mean, we always think about the national implications, what this does for Michigan and our program as a team, and getting a win like this against a great ACC school and Florida State, a team that won a National Championship a few years ago, it's a big win for the program and gives us a step in the right direction.
Q. How has this experience been similar to last year and different?
RYAN GLASGOW: I wasn't really too involved last year.  We watched film, but it's pretty much the same from what I can see.  I wasn't at practice, but just like a normal game week.  We had two weeks of practice the last two weeks.  They were pretty tough, and it was kind of scouting but just trying to get better as football players, and now we're really honing in on the game plan.  So yeah, it's been pretty intense.  Everyone has really showed up to play.  So yeah.
Q. How much different is it when you have a month to prepare for one opponent as opposed to a week?
RYAN GLASGOW: You end up watching a lot of the games, a lot of the film.  You get to study a lot of tendencies, stuff like that.  You get to see what they're good at, not good at.  I mean, when you only have six days to prepare for a team, it's a little bit different, so I think you get to know the opponent better and I think you get to prepare better overall, but they do, too.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT