UBS HONG KONG OPEN
November 22, 2008
Lin Wen-Tang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  SHENTON GOMEZ: Firstly, great job, another steady round for you, no bogeys. You must be quite happy with your performance today.   
 LIN WEN-TANG: I birdied the first hole and it gave me very, very good momentum to carry on for the next 17 holes. Therefore, I was able to have good performance on the next 17 holes. There were a couple of chances on a couple of holes which I almost made bogey but got up-and-down and saved par. Overall, very impressed with my performance.   
 SHENTON GOMEZ: There were some distractions on your approach shots on the 18th hole. You had to stop, and take your approach shot again, but great approach shot followed by a birdie; does that just show the strength of your mental game this week?   
 LIN WEN-TANG: When I set up for my approach shot on 18, there was a spectator who made a very strong whistle and I had to regroup my stance and I had to regroup my posture.   
 And also what was on my mind was I didn't want to hit past the pin and leave myself an uphill putt. So I hit a shot so that I could hit an aggressive putt with less break. So I had a straight putt at the end and made my birdie and I'm very happy with that.  
  
  Q. How are you going to analyse the other players and what sort of strategy will you have tomorrow?   
 LIN WEN-TANG: Because I've been on the Asian Tour for many years, and I've been a very steady player, what I would do is just take it easy and do it in my own tempo. Of course with the possible win tomorrow, I might need a little bit of luck. And also, every time when I go out to play I can learn, so it's a learning process for me every time.   
  
  Q. An Asian player has not won this tournament in ten years; do you feel any pressure?  
 LIN WEN-TANG: The answer is yes, there is great pressure for me, especially because this is part of China, and as a Chinese player, I really want to win, but I will do my best. But there are a lot of great players in the field. I'm not quite sure, but what I will do is I will take it easy and in the future, we might have a chance to see more Chinese players to win in China.   
  
  Q. Have you ever been in the leading group on The European Tour?   
 LIN WEN-TANG: The answer is, no. This is the first time. The highest-leading third-day round was at this year's BMW in Shanghai, where I also won the highest prize money in my career.  
 It's a very challenging game, but I have confidence tomorrow to get ready for the tournament, and also the trophy is given to the one with the best preparation, and I will try my best.   
  
  Q. You've been keeping a smiling face during the tournament whether you hit a bad shot or a good shot. Why do you do that? Is that only this week or have you been doing this for all of your career?  
 LIN WEN-TANG: This is my secret weapon. I always keep my smiling face on Tour, and actually nobody has ever seen my angry face before (big smile).   
 Keeping a smiling face will make everybody comfortable, the media, the fans, and the sponsors.   
 SHENTON GOMEZ: Thank you very much and good luck tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT