U.S. SENIOR WOMEN'S AMATEUR
August 28, 2019
Patricia Erhart
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Again, congratulations on making it this far.  
PATRICIA EHRHART: Thank you.   
 Q.  What was your impression of today's match?  
PATRICIA EHRHART: It was great. I just didn't play well this afternoon. Laura played great. She's putting beautifully.   
You know, I tried my hardest to give her a harder match than that. Anyway, she's the champion so good for her.   
 Q.  Was there any type of worry in the back of your mind or excitement playing last year's champion today?  
PATRICIA EHRHART: No. (Laughter.)   
 Q.  Okay.  
PATRICIA EHRHART: No. I know her and I know she's a good player. I don't know.   
 Q.  Just treat it like any other match?  
PATRICIA EHRHART: Yeah.   
 Q.  That's great.  
PATRICIA EHRHART: Could be anybody's day and could have been my day. I don't know. Probably more pressure for her thinking, God, everybody knows I've won. Now I got to do something. She obviously handled it really well. She's amaze.   
 Q.  Reflecting back to earlier this week, any final thought on your overall play?  
PATRICIA EHRHART: Well, you know, I came into the week and I hadn't played very much. I played two tournaments this year since January, so it was kind of like getting in the groove. Stroke play rounds, I knew after the first round I wasn't in contention for top honors, so I used the second round as a good practice round and get to see the course a bit more and choose the right clubs and look at the greens.   
I just gradually started hitting the ball a bit better and hung in there. It was good. It was great. I'm always happy to be the a golf course for a week.   
 Q.  Definitely.  
PATRICIA EHRHART: Yeah, it's good.   
 Q.  Is there a moment this sticks out to you that's your absolute favorite moment from this championship?  
PATRICIA EHRHART: You know, there is. It really wasn't during a round of golf. I was on the chipping green over here practicing the other evening and there is a member here named John Ehrhart, same last name as me. Couple of other members said, Hey, we've got a member with the same last name.   
I was like, Oh, that's cool. My family, my dad's family had nine siblings and they're all from like this area really. He probably knows my family.   
The next day or so this gentlemen walks up to me with his wife out on the chipping green. Ellen Port and I are the only ones there. He says, Which one of you is Patty Ehrhart. Oh, that's me. He said, I'm John Ehrhart. He's probably 75 years old. Turns out he is my dad's -- he's my grandfather's -- he's my dad's first cousin.   
My grandfather and his dad are brothers.   
 Q.  No kidding?  
PATRICIA EHRHART: Yeah. Isn't that crazy?   
 Q.  That's amazing.  
PATRICIA EHRHART: Yeah, and I've never met him. I remember meeting his dad years ago when I was a little kid. I met him because he was my grandfather's brother and he had been sick. I remember his brothers coming to see him. Isn't that cool? That was my favorite moment. As far as just the way this community is.   
And I had dinner with the former mayor. You know Lee Clancey?   
 Q.  Yeah.  
PATRICIA EHRHART: She was the mayor here for six years. Did you know that?   
 Q.  I did not.  
PATRICIA EHRHART: So those are my favorite moments. You get to know the people and it's cool. New friends.   
 Q.  I'm so glad you are leaving this championship with a smile on your face because you deserve it.  
PATRICIA EHRHART: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT