ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 30, 2009
Jonathan Dwyer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






		  
		   LINDSEY ROGERS: Now we're joined by Jonathan Dwyer, junior running back, Georgia Tech. Good afternoon, Jonathan. Thank you for joining us. 
 JONATHAN DWYER: Thank you for having me.
 LINDSEY ROGERS: Jonathan is averaging 103 yards per game to rank third in the ACC and 24th nationally. 
 At this time we'll open the line for Jonathan for questions from the media. 

 Q. Two-part question for you. Are there any similarities between Clemson's defensive line and Georgia's defensive line in terms of their size and everything? And also, what could winning the ACC Championship mean for the future of Georgia Tech's football program? 
 JONATHAN DWYER: You know, I think first of all, talking about Clemson's defensive line, they're just as talented as UGA. Maybe there's some more guys that have a little bit more better than theirs, but I think they've got some talented kids. They've got two guys that's going to be in the NFL for sure at the end spots and some big guys in the middle. I think they're very similar pretty much. 
 I think by winning the ACC it would set up good for recruits, for recruiting, and it would be a better thing to go over what happened this past Saturday, get the fans over that, just enjoy it if we win the ACC. 

 Q. I wanted to ask you about Anthony Allen, his transition to your program. What's it like to have gotten to know him, and what do you think he brings to your team as a guy who's transferred in? 
 JONATHAN DWYER: He brings excitement. He's going to keep you fired up during the game. He brings a lot of emotion when he plays, and he's a great player. He's a great blocker. He's all-around type of back. He can catch the ball, has good hands, and he can run the ball very good, as well. 

 Q. Coming here to Tampa, it's his hometown. With this game out in front of you, has that been something that he's expressed and how big of a thing is it for him to be coming home?
 JONATHAN DWYER: He hasn't really talked about it to be honest. Just like everybody else, he tries to take one game at a time, and after the game on Saturday he texted me -- we texted each other Sunday and we were checking on each other, and he said he's excited to play in the championship game. I told him that I felt the same way. 
 I guess obviously he's going to be excited to play in front of his hometown crowd, and who wouldn't want to be? That's how much I'm excited when I play at home. 

 Q. You mentioned talking about trying to help the fans get over things, what happened this past Saturday, if you guys win. How much would it do for you guys to get over it? I'm sure there's a lot of disappointment over the result the other night. 
 JONATHAN DWYER: After the game, I think obviously the guys on the team were disappointed about it, and all day Saturday night, and I guess it somewhat went over to Saturday. But everybody is pretty much over it now. Everybody is talking about Clemson and everybody is excited about playing this weekend. I think all the players on the team are over it, and obviously the coaches are, as well. 
 I think it will be good to help the fans get over that game by us going out there and playing the way we're supposed to play to win the game.

 Q. Obviously y'all have had a great season. I know you never think about we could possibly lose, but obviously you'd hate to end what's been a great season for you with two straight losses going into the Bowl. Is that kind of driving you guys, as well, not to let all the good feelings of this season get away over with the last couple weeks? 
 JONATHAN DWYER: You know, I mean, to us we haven't finished our season. We haven't finished our goal or anything. Number one on our goal list is to win the ACC Championship and be the champions. I don't think anybody is satisfied, especially after what happened Saturday. Everybody has a little bit more focus and is ready to play this week. 

 Q. Kind of following up on that, how big is this game for the program? It's been a while since Georgia Tech has won the ACC. I mean, you obviously played in the game a few years ago, but actually winning the ACC has been a long time. 
 JONATHAN DWYER: I mean, this is my first time ever being a part of it. I wasn't here when they went the first time. But I think it's going to be good. It's going to be fun to play in. Championship game, there's no reason why our team is not going to be excited. I know it's going to be good for our program if we win the game, and I hope we go out there and do what we're supposed to do, and hopefully luck gets on our side and we do win it.

 Q. Unrelated but a follow-up; when you go into a game and there's another really talented running back on the other side of the field, do you at all try to measure yourself by what he's doing, kind of "one-upsmanship"? Will you do that with C.J. on Saturday?
 JONATHAN DWYER: Not really. We've talked already, and talking to see how each other is doing, and we're just excited to play and have, I guess, a rematch and see what happens this time. 
 LINDSEY ROGERS: Jonathan, thank you so much for joining us today. Best of luck down in Tampa. 
 JONATHAN DWYER: Thank you very much.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT