PAC-12 WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 7, 2020
Adia Barnes
Aari McDonald
Sam Thomas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Oregon - 88, Arizona - 70   
ADIA BARNES: Today we played a really good team. Oregon is one of the best teams in the country with so many offensive weapons, and just really hard to match up with.   
You know, you play a zone, they have shooters; you play man-to-man, they get you in rotation. They're a really good team with a potential to win a championship. Or go very, very far in the tournament. I'd be shocked if they don't go to the Final Four.   
For us, of course, we wanted to win today. We wanted an upset. We knew we would have to really play, bring our A game. But I'm not disappointed, we were close at times, but a lot of the small mistakes, they don't win games against the top three teams in the country, they win games against the top 20.   
So it is a learning lesson for us. We see where the bar is set really high. We see where we're going to be in the near future and what it takes to get there.   
I'm glad that we're in this conference that can prepare us for the tournament. I don't know any other conference where every other weekend you play teams like Oregon but the Pac-12. So good and bad.   
 Q.  You anticipated a lot for quite a long time. Did it just get too hard to keep answering? Because there was a point where they might hit a three, you come down, hit a three, but then they come down and they hit -- you just get in that cycle where they keep answering your answer?  
ADIA BARNES: I think there were small runs. I think the backbreaking moments were the offensive rebounds. So there were times we played solid defense. I think our defense was disrupting them for sure. I think our zone disrupted them, our zone baseline out of bounds had them stagnant.   
Things that hurt: Offensive rebounds that Sabrina got in the first half. The easy put-backs. Those were easy six, eight points that those are deflating and those are tough, because you're locking down. At one point we were on defense for a minute and 20 seconds, because of offensive rebounds, so those are the mistakes that can't happen in these type of games.   
You know, we lost on the boards, I think 39-22. 14 offensive, I mean, if you would have told me that, I would have said we would have lost by 40.   
You know, we just have to do a better job in that area.   
 Q.  Every year you have had success coaching at Arizona. Can you talk about just the things you're excited about in the future?  
ADIA BARNES: Well, haven't had success every year, we were bad a couple of years ago. First year -- felt like a couple of years. Yes. Yes. So it is -- just kidding.   
Yes. We have gotten better every year. First year, it is the part of the process of building a program. This is a first year with all my players. You know, that took four years. We have gotten better because of young women like this, Aari took a chance on Arizona, wanting to build something special, she did that.   
Sam wasn't going to stay in the Pac-12, she was born in Michigan, thought about going to Michigan. We reeled her in. She stayed in the Pac-12, and she's built this program with us.   
So players like these have built the foundation.   
I said this in the last press conference, you know, it was a dream, it was a vision of what Arizona was going to be like when we were there.   
We're no longer rebuilding, we're climbing, and the climb is fun. I'm seeing what I want the climb to look like, that we'll look like this in a year or two. I'm very happy with three graduating seniors. We're going to get there. There is no doubt in my mind.   
I said that when I got to Arizona, we were going to be good. It wasn't a matter of if, but a matter of when.   
We're going to get better in the next two weeks. You'll see a better team in two weeks, and you'll see a team that will be successful in the tournament.   
Our program hasn't been in the tournament in 15 years. We're there. We have a chance to host now. I'm excited about it. Normally Arizona, our season would be over, it is not over this year. So, you know, we have prepared all season long playing against the best teams in the country, so I feel and I hope they feel too, we're prepared for the tournament.   
 Q.  Coach, do you think it was beneficial tonight that the refs let both teams play a very physical type game to get you ready for the tournament?  
ADIA BARNES: I hate answering questions about the refs after a loss. I'm not going to complain. We have really good officials, I thought we had a good crew. I was happy with that crew.   
I thought there was some calls in the beginning, Aari was being bumped, it was physical, also I think they let it play -- they let us be physical on both end, I appreciate that. I prefer if it is going to be physical, you're not calling a lot of fouls, I like that. I don't think there's ever been a half this year we haven't shot a free throw, that's the first time. You know, it is what it is.   
I don't -- it's never -- it never comes down to officials whether we lose, we win, because we're smart enough, good enough defensively to make adjustments, it is never a reason why regardless of the way it is called.   
So I think they did a good job. I think we have very good officials. I think we just have really good players, and I think people when they watch women's basketball they want to see dynamic scorers, they want to see it and this is the type of product they want to see. They want to see Aari and Sabrina go against one another, they want to see Sam and Satou. I like the way it is officiated.   
 Q.  Did you guys expect that there would be 25 threes made tonight?  
ADIA BARNES: I expected Oregon would probably hit 25 threes. They shoot a lot of threes. I didn't really -- I knew they were going to hit some threes, I didn't -- I be thought we shot the three pretty well too.   
Yeah, i mean, they were 15 for 31, we played zone, 10-21. I'm not upset about that stat at all. It is just I think for us, rebounding out of a zone is difficult. Rebounding out of a box and one. I think if we did a little bit better on the boards, I think we had a better chance to win the game.   
 Q.  I want to ask the players, I know you're disappointed about tonight. Two weeks from now you'll be playing in the NCAA Tournament, and I want to know how excited you are about that?  
AARI McDONALD: I'm really excited, I haven't been to the tournament since freshman year in Washington. I'm excited. I'm ready for my team and I to make some noise.   
SAM THOMAS: I never have been. I'm really excited to go for my freshman year and now junior year, we have potential to host it, I'm really excited.   
 Q.  I have to ask too, did you get proposed to after the game?  
ADIA BARNES: That was the highlight of the day, of the night. That's the only thing that happened postgame.   
 Q.  Could you maybe walk us through what happened? A lot of people didn't realize w hat was going on?  
AAR MCDONALD: We were walking off the court, and I see my brother gesturing, like, hey, come here. He had his phone on. I'm like, what is he doing? And then I seen my boyfriend, Devon. I'm like, wait. What? I looked at the sign, will you marry me? With all my family there.   
ADIA BARNES: The whole family had signs.   
AARI McDONALD: I have never been speechless in my life. I literally had nothing to say.   
ADIA BARNES: She couldn't say no, it was on TV. This is someone -- they're -- they're a very good couple. They have been together a long time. He's a great man, and, you know, we all knew she would get married. I didn't know today, honestly. But the head coaches are always left out of the loop. We knew that it was just a matter of time, and we're happy for her.   
 Q.  Do you have the ring on right now?  
AARI McDONALD: I do.   
ADIA BARNES: He has good taste. She had to say yes. We're all very excited with her. It was an exciting moment to share with Aari.   
 Q.  Tell us his name again?  
AARI McDONALD: Devon.   
ADIA BARNES: He played football at Arizona.   
 Q.  Can you beat him one on one?  
AARI McDONALD: Of course.   
 Q.  I have a basketball question for you, you brought up you have two weeks off before you play, that's a long time. Last year, how much better do you think you got in the two weeks that you had between the conference tournament and when you obviously went on an incredible run in the WNIT?  
ADIA BARNES: A lot better. I think -- multiple reasons. I think mentally just to have a break is good. Physically, you know, we're a bit banged up, giving Aari rest time, Dominique, Cate. It is good timing for that.   
Rebounding is a focal point, just getting up shots. I think it is a positive -- it is a lot of time. I think it's a time to celebrate each other. It is a fun time. I think the only bad thing for the players is they don't get a spring break, but in this program we're not going to have a spring break anymore from now on, we'll plan for that.   
I think it is just a time to -- we can get a lot better in two weeks and we'll be better. We'll put in different types of defenses and work on the stuff we do well so still working on our bright spots and we will be improved.   
 Q.  Lindsay sort of touched on this already, congratulations, Aari.  
AARI McDONALD: Thank you.   
 Q.  I wonder, going from a competitive moment to a very human moment in life that's such a shock, I'm sure you're still decompressing, but I'm sort of interested in knowing how will you all celebrate as a team, personally with your fiance, family, what happens from this moment from the presser on?  
AARI McDONALD: We'll probably go out to eat with my family. My teammates and coaches are welcome.   
ADIA BARNES: We have to give her alone -- we haven't even had time to talk about that. They'll have some free time tonight and have a curfew. Most of them have families here, they'll all go with their families. They don't want to hang out with their coaches. That's okay.   
 Q.  Coach, I was just wondering your thoughts on Sabrina's game and just how important she has been to basketball with her impact on and off the court?  
ADIA BARNES: Sabrina is a phenomenal player. She's the best -- one of the best point guards in the country. I think she made the best decision of her life, and that was to stay in college. I think they would have been very different if she would have gone pro because I think they have a chance to win a championship.   
I'm proud that she came back and had unfinished business, her game has improved from last year to this years. It has to. Playing in the WNBA is not easy. She's been a great ambassador for our game. Things like speaking at Kobe's funeral, different things and the way she's connected a lot of NBA players to our game, it only helps our game and she's a good representative, her work ethic, just who she is and how she leads her team is remarkable.   
It takes more than her. I think she's got a really great side kick, Ruthy, her and Ruthy have had tremendous chemistry I have watched grown in the four years. Then when you add Satou to that mix, they're dynamic. Not many teams have a star point guard, a dominant post player shooting 70% and an All-American and All-Star three that's 6'4". There's not too many great 6'4" wings in the country.   
If you think years ago, the best wings that were that tall were Evan (indiscernible) and the WNBA, Tamika Catchings, Lauren Jackson, those type of players. But they're unique.   
So with three All-Americans and Naismith candidates and three top five WNBA picks, they're a phenomenal tem. The catalyst and the person that started that whole program and built Oregon with Kelly Graves was Sabrina.   
It is very similar to what Aari is doing in Arizona. Because we will get players, and great players want to play with other great players. What it does is it brought a player like Satou to be excited to come play at Oregon, and they have done well. She had unfinished business, so for her to go and have a possibility of winning a championship, I think it is a great thing, and possibly to be Player of the Year. I think it is pretty remarkable for our league also.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT