BMW LADIES CHAMPIONSHIP
October 26, 2019
Seung Yeon Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q: Can you tell us about your third round and how you've played so far?   
SEUNG YEON LEE: I wasn't playing very well after the second round and so after the second round finished, I focused on resting rather than practice. So going into this third round, I felt much better. I struggled a little bit on the front nine, but I didn't really focus on that. I concentrated on the back nine and I felt I was able to make up for some of the little mistakes on the front nine.   
Q: There is one hole that you probably really want to re-do. Can you tell us what happened there?   
SEUNG YEON LEE: On number 6, the pin was a back pin and I was at the teeing ground, I gauged the wind and I thought I was hitting into the wind. I took that into consideration when I selected my club but it turned out the wind was coming from behind me so the ball ended up in the hazard. I dropped a shot.   
Q: If you look at the field right now, there are at least 30 KLPGA players and then there are a lot of Korean players on the LPGA Tour. Does this feel like an LPGA event to you or are you more comfortable because it feels more like a KLPGA event?   
SEUNG YEON LEE: Like you said, there are a lot of Korean players in the field and of course there are a lot of Korean players that are playing on the LPGA Tour. I think that I am more comfortable and I think, personally, for me, this is kind of like an added-on prize event that I was able to take part in because I played well this year. I'm focused on building experience here and also building a foundation for when I actually do go to the LPGA.   
Q: It seems that the Koreans players are doing exceptionally well at this event. Do you think that has to do with the grass? You're going into the final round as co-leader. How are you going to attack the course tomorrow? Will you be more aggressive?   
SEUNG YEON LEE: I don't think it's so much about the grass. I think the Korean players are overall more adjusted to the climate. They're more accustomed to the overall climate. I think the LPGA Tour players, they move around from country to country so they have to adjust to different climates. I think that's perhaps why the Korean players have an advantage here. Tomorrow, I'm not going to just play more bold and aggressively just because I'm in the lead. I think I'll be looking at every hole and it will depend on the hole. On some holes, I'll be more aggressive. On others where I need to be defensive, I'll play more defensively.   
Q: So we have one day left in this competition. If you win and earn an LPGA Tour card, will you go to the LPGA Tour immediately or do you think you'll wait?   
SEUNG YEON LEE: I've been receiving that question yesterday and the day before as well. I think if I were to win this event and earn a card, I would still stay on the KLPGA a little longer. I think I still have a lot to learn on the KLPGA. There are many players on the KLPGA, so I think I'll build more experience before going to the LPGA because I don't think I'm quite ready for that yet.   
Q: I heard that you play better and you enjoy huge galleries. Did that help your game today? Tomorrow we'll see a bigger crowd. Do you think that will have an impact on your game?   
SEUNG YEON LEE: After my win, I wasn't playing so well. It's been a while since I was in the champion's group. In the second round, I was in the champion's group and I saw a huge gallery and I was actually quite nervous. So I think I used up a lot more energy. After going through the second round and that group in the third round, I think I've adjusted so today I was less nervous. Tomorrow, I just hope to enjoy playing the game with the gallery.   
Q: Do you prefer to be in another group or do you prefer to be in the champion's group? Going into the final round, is there any particular mindset you're aiming for?   
SEUNG YEON LEE: I don't have that much experience, so I can't really tell the difference between being in the champion's group or the group before that. But I tihnk if I were to pick between the two I would pick the champion's group because they get an early start. Going into the final round tomorrow, I've been trying to do this in the first and second and third rounds. I'm trying not to think about what will happen next. I'm trying not to look into the future. I'm going to try to focus on the present for every shot.   
Q: I'm sure after that double bogey you were rattled somewhat, but you came back from that and you made four consecutive birdies. Mentally, that's not easy. What powered you to do that?   
SEUNG YEON LEE: I think just as I mentioned I earlier, I really tried to focus on the present. I wasn't thinking about how birdies I was making, how many pars I was making or if I wasn't too wrapped up in how I made a double bogey. Instead I just focused on every shot. I knew I was making birdies but I was focused so much on the present that I didn't know I had made four consecutive birdies.   
Q: This is the first event on this golf course after it was renewed so there is no data. Having played three rounds, tomorrow, which hole do you think will determine the winner?   
SEUNG YEON LEE: I woudl say 17, the reason being not only for this golf course but for a lot of golf courses and a lto of events, it seems when it comes to the 17th hole, you pretty much have an idea of who is going to win. With this particular golf course, there's a lot of obstacles in front of the green. That's the reason why I would pick 17. Also when it comes to the 17th hole, you pretty much know how the winner is going to be and the people in contention will be under a lot of pressure. So I'm sure that's around when the winner will be decided.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT