WIMBLEDON
June 28, 2012
Xavier Malisse
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 X. MALISSE/G. Simon
  6‑4, 6‑4, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   That was a good win for you, wasn't it?  
XAVIER MALISSE:   Yeah, yeah, I'm very happy.   I played well.   I've never beaten him.   It's always tough to play someone you've never won against.   
Very happy.   Long rallies, long match, long sets.   But very happy to win in three, because if I lose the tiebreaker it's totally different match and he could come back.   He never gives up.   
Very happy with the way I played and finished.   
   
 Q.   Can you tell me what your coaching situation is?  
XAVIER MALISSE:   Oh, well, I traveled with Max for three years.   So we quit at the end of March.   Now I'm between.   I either travel with a physical coach a couple weeks.   He has a wife and kids, so he goes to family.   
And then I have a tennis coach, Steve also, who jumps in then when the physical coach is away.   
So we switch back and forth.   It's a very good combination.   
   
 Q.   You beat a player today who said earlier in the week that men and women shouldn't be paid the same because women don't play as long matches.   Do you think it looks a bit foolish given you beat him in straight sets?  
XAVIER MALISSE:   Everybody is entitled to his opinion.   He has his opinion.   Once we're on the court I don't think we think about prize money.   We try to win and play the best possible.   
But that's his opinion.   I'd rather leave that to him and let him answer all the questions about prize money and stuff.   
But, you know, he's going to lose again, so obviously he can't win all the matches after that.   But I think it's his opinion to have his outing to the public.   But I can't say more 'cause it's a thought that he has, and I respect it.   
   
 Q.   So you don't you share his thought?  
XAVIER MALISSE:   Well, I share his thought, but I'd rather not get into it.   I'd rather he gets into it.   I've gotten into too many things in my life, so I'm done with that.   
   
 Q.   You got the break back.   How important was it for you?   Were you focusing on that?   You were afraid of getting to a tiebreak.   
XAVIER MALISSE:   Yeah, yeah, I mean, it was tough.   It was a weird third set because he broke me then I broke him then he broke me again.   He served a couple good games.   My legs were a little tight in those games.   I didn't get much out of the serve.   Then I started serving better again, going harder.   
But it's very important to get the break back at 4‑3 because, you know, 5‑3, I mean, to get a break back is tough.   I got it at the right moment, I think.   I served well after that.   He served a couple good games.   
To be honest, I was pretty tired.   We played long rallies, so I put everything in the tiebreak.   Even at 4‑All I think we played a point I think 30 shots.   I didn't want to give up because I knew how important it was to win the third set, and luckily I got away with it.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel there's a difference the way the courts are playing this year?  
XAVIER MALISSE:   Yeah, definitely.   I think there's a huge difference.   If you look at today, you didn't see those rallies 10, 12 years ago, I think.   It was a lot quicker.   The serve got more through the court.   I mean, you see a lot of aces, but not as much as it used to be.   Even when you slice out wide it doesn't slide that much.   The balls get heavy also because there's so many rallies.   
But it's definitely a big difference.   I mean, I still like it because it's good for me also.   But a little quicker would be nice like it used to be.   But there's a big difference, I think.   
   
 Q.   I see you a lot in Bradenton.   How do you like it there?   Nick has been a great mentor for you, too.   
XAVIER MALISSE:   Well, it's been hugely important I think in my career.   I changed a lot when I was 17 to go there, to open my eyes to new things.   Like you say, Nick has helped me a lot also ‑ probably more than ever with motivation and, like you say, guiding.   
You get tips from him.   I had a good coach also, Fritz.   And still nice it's nice to go back because there's always a place to train.   You can work out, do your thing by yourself.   If you need help, there's plenty of coaches I know.   Physical stuff also with Nick, with everybody.   
I like it.   I've been there for so long, since '97, I think.   I still have a place there because also if you want to get away from things, it's a good place too just train.   There's not much distraction around obviously in Bradenton.   Yeah, I've been a huge fan always to go back and do my training there.   
   
 Q.   It seems tennis is favoring the mature, veteran players.   Do you find that experience is helping you more now?  
XAVIER MALISSE:   Yeah, I mean, definitely.   You know what to do.   I think in important points also, that's where experience comes in the most.   Especially at Wimbledon also when it rains, you know, young guys used to hang around and walk around.   You know, it gets tiring.   
When you're older you know what to do.   You stay calm, do your thing.   And just preparation, I think that's a key thing also.   
But I think experience is a huge factor in tennis, preparing your matches, during the match, what to do, important points, all that stuff comes together.   When you play younger guys, when I used to be younger, wild and crazy, do whatever.   It's very important you have experience under your belt.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT