WIMBLEDON
June 25, 2011
Xavier Malisse
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 X. MALISSE/J. Melzer
  7-6, 6-3, 6-0 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. In the next rounds you've got Bernard Tomic. You played him before. What do you remember of his game?  
 XAVIER MALISSE: I remember he doesn't miss much. He's a player goes up and down a little bit, but obviously he's playing well here. If you're in the fourth round and beating Soderling in three sets, that means you're playing well.  
 We had a long match in Queen's last year. I think 6-3 in the third. I got actually a little bit lucky that I got away with one.   
 But, yeah, he just plays consistent. Doesn't do too much but, yeah, just never misses. That's one thing I remember. We played long rallies and it was a long match, too.  
  
  Q. When you say doesn't do too much, you mean he doesn't go for winners all the time?  
 XAVIER MALISSE: Yeah, I mean, he attacks sometimes, but he's just consistent from the back. He doesn't go for huge shots, but just gets everything back. I think that's his strength.  
  
  Q. Is he more dangerous because he's got nothing to lose really as an 18 year old?  
 XAVIER MALISSE: I think so. Plus I've seen him a little bit at the academy we practice at. He's a nice kid who just doesn't fear too much. He just goes out and plays. I think that's a strength in one way, because you just play your game and you don't really think about your surroundings.  
 It does get to a second week, so maybe it changes a little bit. I think I just have to focus on my thing, and we'll see where he will be at.  
  
  Q. You might have been expecting to play Soderling, I guess. Does it change your approach to the next round that it's not?  
 XAVIER MALISSE: Not much. I mean, I know this is going to be the toughest match so far I will play against Tomic just because he has nothing to lose. But I saw the first set and the first few games before the match, and it was going so quick.   
 Plus when you're on Court 12 you can follow a little bit at screen with the score. So I knew he was two sets to love up. You start to think -- you start knowing that you're going to play him.   
 That doesn't change much for me. I'll just play my game and we'll see how it goes.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT