AEGON CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 7, 2011
Xavier Malisse
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







X. MALISSE/M. Bachinger
  6-4, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. How was your first match on the grass? How did you feel?
 XAVIER MALISSE: Well, I'm actually pretty happy, especially -- we didn't get to practice much the last couple of days with the rain, so I only got a half hour in. 
 But I'm very happy. Just a couple of things, of course, serving and stuff, but I played consistent. I played well. 
 The other guy played a good match. He's been playing well on grass, too. I'm very happy the way it went today.

 Q. You're playing Andy Murray tomorrow. How do you see that?
 XAVIER MALISSE: Of course he's the favorite on paper; plus he's playing at home. We had a good match in Rome a couple weeks back, playing well, and, you know, it's one of those matches where I don't have much to lose. If I can play well, maybe even -- better than today, obviously. 
 But yeah. I mean, it's one of those matches where you can only win and benefit from it. So we'll see how it goes. 

 Q. He's coming with a bit of an ankle problem. When you know that in advance, is that something you look to test out early in the game?
 XAVIER MALISSE: Not really, because if he's playing, it means he's good to play. Otherwise I don't think he'll take too many risks with Wimbledon coming up. 
 No, I play my game, because if you think too much about the other person, you don't play your own game and you miss shots. So I'll do my part, and we'll see how it goes on his part.

 Q. How much will crowd be a factor?
 XAVIER MALISSE: I mean, to be honest, I've played a lot of bigger matches in Wimbledon, too, and the crowd has always been very nice. I think they appreciate just good tennis, and, you know, this is awesome; stadium court, also very cozy I would say. 
 Of course, it will be tough, because they will be on his side. And if it goes to a close, close set, of course they'll be rooting for him. But I have enough experience to know how to handle it and we'll see. But I'm enjoying either way. 

 Q. What did you learn from the last match when you played this year? Because you got a set off him. It was a quite close match, wasn't it?
 XAVIER MALISSE: I learned -- I played more aggressive. I went for shots. So I'll definitely have to play aggressive tomorrow. 
 Of course it's a different surface. I think I'll have to serve good, because he's very consistent from the back. But I think playing aggressive will be the most important for me.

 Q. You've had success at Wimbledon. Do you look forward to this time of the year, here and Wimbledon, the next few weeks at Wimbledon?
 XAVIER MALISSE: Especially after the clay, you know, you play long matches and then you don't feel the most comfortable on it. 
 Yeah, I like the grass. You know, I have had a good couple of years on grass, and I always enjoy it here and coming back here. I love this tournament. I love Wimbledon. So it's really a pleasure to play on these courts.

 Q. Andy obviously had a long run at the French Open. Does it take a little bit of time to go from the clay straight to the grass court now?
 XAVIER MALISSE: I don't think too much. I think if you play on grass a couple days, you get used to it. Plus it's not like ten years back where the grass, it was really like ice almost and it's a lot faster. 
 So I feel like it didn't take me too long. I don't think it will take Andy too long. It's always just nice to come back here.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT