WIMBLEDON
June 26, 2008
Xavier Malisse
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  A. MURRAY/X. Malisse
6-4, 6-2, 6-2

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. How tough was it for you today?
 XAVIER MALISSE: Well, it was really tough. I think he played really good tennis. He served extremely well. On the other side, I didn't play my best game. 
 Like I said before, I was going to have to serve really well, and I really didn't. I don't think my percentage was too high. On top of that, you know, got a little lucky, a lot of let cords. Like in the last set, I'm trying to come back, it's close, deuce, mine are all out, his are in. 
 That's just the way it goes. If you play well, you get lucky. If you play a little less, you don't. 

 Q. You've been to the semis. Has he got what it takes to get that far? 
 XAVIER MALISSE: Well, I think if he serves like today, even I made a couple returns deep, he just, you know, stepped in and hit winners. 
 But, you know, there's so many good players out there it's tough to say. I got to the semis. You need some luck. I won five-setters, 9-7. He's going to need some luck. 
 But if he plays like this there's a chance. But, like I said, there's a lot of good players out there. It won't be a walk-through. 

 Q. It seems like the serve is the thing that impressed you most. That has come on a lot, hasn't it? 
 XAVIER MALISSE: Yeah. I mean, I've seen him play matches. I don't think I've seen him serve that well. It was hard, too. It's not like -- I don't think I got to deuce in the first set, or even close. 
 You know, and then you have to play well on your game, so you get pressured. But, you know, second serve I could have attacked a little more. If you're not playing the best, you're just trying to get ball in the rally and trying to build on something. 
 But, you know, just he was better today. Just, you know, at the end of the day, that's how it is. 

 Q. There's also a bit of variety to his game that perhaps you don't get with some of the other top players. 
 XAVIER MALISSE: Yeah. I mean, it's tough on grass. His slice is not really fast, so it kind of sticks. But, I mean, it's not that much different. You know, a lot of players play well. 
 It was just too good. He had good backhands down the line. When I got close, I had a breakpoint, he aced. So, I mean, there's not much I can do about it. Just too strong. 

 Q. What happened at the end?
 XAVIER MALISSE: I thought it was long. You know, you never know. The umpire thought I wasn't ready, so we were both thinking we were waiting for the challenge while the umpire was thinking playing first serve. It was all a misunderstanding. 

 Q. You didn't think of changing your mind and saying you weren't ready?
 XAVIER MALISSE: No, no, I'm not going to do that. I thought it was long, but story of the day. Everything was good. That's just how it is. 

 Q. Tommy had a good win today. You know what he can do. Do you think he's equipped at this stage of his career to hurt Andy?
 XAVIER MALISSE: I think so. I mean, I've seen Tommy play against Cañas a couple of sets in the first round. You know, it was impressive. He was hitting the ball really well. I know from in Florida he's put a lot of work in. 
 Tommy can play. He's been No. 2 in the world. Obviously he can play. You know, we'll see. If Andy serves like today, I thought he returned pretty well, too, then, you know, I think it's definitely 50/50. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT