NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: CUBS VS METS
October 21, 2015
Daniel Murphy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Mets - 8 - Cubs - 3   
 Q.  Dude, you have a smile on your face that you couldn't beat away, you had a great time, didn't you?  
DANIEL MURPHY: That was a lot of fun.  I think the group of guys in there makes it that much more fun when each guy still cares for the guy next to him.  You get so excited when you're able to come together and accomplish something like this.   
We know there are still some more wins we want to get our hands on, so we're going to enjoy this right now, and you see everybody get a piece of it, it makes it very special.   
 Q.  You had 14 home runs, I believe, this season, and you've hit seven so far in this postseason.  That's about half your total.  
DANIEL MURPHY: I think that would be exactly half, it would be exactly half (laughing).  I'm just teasing you.   
 Q.  Can you speak to that a little bit?  What's going on?  These are Barry Bonds' numbers.  
DANIEL MURPHY: I don't know.  I've talked to Kevin Long about it.  I can't explain it.  It's just such a blessing to be able to contribute to what we've been able to do.  I really can't explain it.  It's just a complete blessing, and that's the only way I can describe it.   
I'm excited to be able to do something to help us win ballgames, but I can't explain it.   
 Q.  If I heard Kevin Long correctly, he said, on that home run today, you were looking for a changeup and you cut up to a fastball anyway.  Is that accurate?  Is that how locked in you are right now?  
DANIEL MURPHY: I was looking for a changeup there, yes, sir.  I was looking for a changeup.  Yeah.  Yeah, I was looking for a changeup there, and I don't know how I got to the fastball.   
 Q.  Are you kind of in disbelief right now?  At least with the 8th inning home run, that that happened?  
DANIEL MURPHY: Yeah, I'm surprised.  Each time I've been able to put a swing on a ball and it goes out of the ballpark, I feel like I've been in stretches where I've put good swings on balls, but they're singles and they're doubles.   
Like I said, it's just an absolute blessing right now.  I can't explain it.  I know I've been up here, but it's Jesus.  I can't explain it.  It's just a blessing.   
 Q.  I know you greatly prefer to emphasize the team accomplishments, but you've now set a baseball record most consecutive postseason games with a home run, can you appreciate that moment and what that means to you?  
DANIEL MURPHY: Yeah, it's cool.  I think, and even more, like I said, each one of those home runs has almost helped us try to win a ballgame.  I think the only one that we didn't win was the one where I was able to get Clayton at our place.  But if I'm not mistaken, we've been able to win every other ballgame.  That is really exciting for me.  To come into the playoffs where runs are at a premium, again, I can't explain why the balls keep going out of the ballpark, but they do.  And we keep winning ballgames, which is the most important part and the coolest part.   
 Q.  As you've been going through this, you've been generally understated in your reaction on the field.  But when that one went out, you pumped a fist in the air.  I don't know if you remember doing that.  Can you remember what was going through your mind in that moment when you saw it clear?  
DANIEL MURPHY: Yes, sir.  I was -- Rondon was on the mound, and he threw some really good changeups to Kirk Nieuwenhuis, so I went to Kevin and I said I'm going to look for that changeup.  And he threw two heaters, and the second one exploded on me.  So now I'm like I don't know what to look for.  I might as well stay in the changeup because I don't have the fastball measured.  And he threw another heater and I just swung.  I hoped I would have took it.   
And then when I hit it, I said, oh, my goodness.  Then Dexter went after it, I thought he was going to catch it, and then the netting caught it.  I don't know.  I can't explain it.   
 Q.  Do you remember it?  
DANIEL MURPHY: I do remember that.  I was really surprised it got out, that's why I did that.  I thought oh, my goodness.  That got out of the ballpark.   
 Q.  You've been around this franchise for a long time.  For you, for David, for T.C., for all these people who travel to Chicago and stuck around, what does all of this mean?  
DANIEL MURPHY: I think it's really special.  Lucas Duda has been in this organization, Jon Niese was in before me and David's the longest tenured one.   
The fans have been awesome from the first game we played the Dodgers at our place, to the first two games of this series.  I don't -- somebody's cheering right now.  I'm not sure who it is.   
I also want to commend the Chicago Cubs fans.  They waited for their ballclub to come back out and gave them an ovation that they rightly deserved.  That's a great club over there.  They had a great year, and their future is really, really bright.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT