UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS AT SAN ANTONIO FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 8, 2018
B.J. Daniels
Cordale Grundy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Baylor - 37, UTSA - 20   
 Q.  Cordale, you looked pretty comfortable in the offense today.  Can you describe what you were seeing out there in tonight's game?  
CORDALE GRUNDY: Yeah, I'm pretty comfortable, you know, at this point.  My job is to lead everybody else on the team, offense and defense, and just execute and be consistent out there.  I'm pretty comfortable in the offense.   
 Q.  How do you feel y'all did out there overall?  You got behind the 8-ball a little bit early.  They got ten quick ones on you, but you all hung in there pretty tough.  How do you think you did overall as a team?  
CORDALE GRUNDY: Overall as a team, I love our fight that we had.  We kept -- even though we were down, we kept fighting.  Never gave up.  We didn't get off to the start offensively that we wanted but they did a good job of fighting, I think on both sides of the ball.  Love the way we fought and we kept competing, and we definitely progressed today in this game and definitely got better.  I definitely believe that.   
 Q.  Tonight was the second-largest crowd in history.  What did that mean for you guys and what did it do for you in the game?  
CORDALE GRUNDY: It meant everything for the players and the coaching staff.  It's great to see this football team grow nationally and thankful for the fans coming out.  It's important to us.  Love to see all them back.  First conference game is in two weeks.  Thankful for the fans.  Thank all of them for being here.  Even for the Fan Walk, there was a lot of people.  It was a great atmosphere, and I love playing in front of them.   
B.J. DANIELS: Just looking at the crowd, it was beautiful.  Even the top row had a bunch of people.  It was great.  Made everyone play a little bit harder and get one for the fans.   
 Q.  Cordale, did the game count slow?  Last week it was like rush hour.  Did it slow down a little bit for you?  Do you feel maybe things slowed down a little bit?  
CORDALE GRUNDY: Most definitely.  Things start to slow down and I was able to get more comfortable, and just go out there and play my game and do what I was coached to do.   
So yeah, I agree with you, things most definitely slowed down.  More comfortable.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT