WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC: 2ND ROUND POOL F
March 14, 2017
Tony Pena
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Puerto Rico - 3, Dominican Republic - 1
Q. There were many factors from this loss today regarding umpiring and the calls and Carlos Martinez.  I'd like to hear the cause now that we're finalized.  I think it was bound to happen.
TONY PEÑA: Well, the first inning it was a critical inning.  We had full house, and the game spoke for itself at that moment.  Carlos Martinez had 70 pitches in four innings.  Well, it was a great game despite this loss, but it would have been worse.  But thank God, he did a great job.
And this happens.  We're human beings and we're not robots.  The streak that we've won these games, and one of these days it was bound to happen.
But we did lose this battle, but not the war, and this is for the following game.
Q. Tony, well, the deep issue with the team, what are you going to do with Cano?  Are you going to give him a break to see if he's going to work with other players?  Can he help him get out of that slump he's in?
TONY PEÑA: Look, I'm not going to change the lineup, and I'm not going to take out my ballplayer, no.  They're professionals.  I will lose, and I will lose with all of my men and with all of them together.
Q. Tony, in the game today, the umpire was disastrous, do you think this influenced?  So the team just fell out of rhythm?
TONY PEÑA: I'm not going to make a comment on this regard.  But you saw the game.  So you can decide.  You can make comments, but I'm not going to make a comment to that regard.
Q. What opinion do you have of Molina as a catcher, and then taking the home run?
TONY PEÑA: He's a great professional, and Molina is one of the greatest catchers in baseball today.  And like I said before the game, it really does have a lot to do when we're going to win and who we're going to win.  And today, and his mastery that he used, Yadier Molina to do these pitches with one ball and one strike.
Q. What intensity that you saw in Puerto Rico?
TONY PEÑA: They obviously were actually playing really hard against this incredible Dominican team.  And they played with great energy.  The first inning was a determining factor.  Now had we gained two runs, perhaps, it would have been a different thing.
Q. Tony, very little times in your career we've seen you like today.  Has this been painful?  I know this is painful, but out of control, perhaps?
TONY PEÑA: No, I never fight.  I never discuss with any of the umpires, but it's enough.
Q. Tony, in the case of this stadium, it's not a secret for anyone it's a stadium for pitching and it's very difficult.  Did it come to your mind to think of -- to tell the sluggers or the pitchers to not get anxious?  Do you think that that overwhelmed them?
TONY PEÑA: We did talk about that, and we talked about it during the game.
Q. How does one recuperate after this loss?
TONY PEÑA: How?  Simple, we are going to return and we are going to win.  I believe in each and every one of those young men.  We lost a game.  We did our same routine that we've done during the time that we've always played.  We have a great team.  And despite that, lots of people do fear the team from the Dominican Republic, and I've told my young men we didn't come here to lose, but we will continue to fight.  This is the only way that we can demonstrate what we're capable of doing.  Simply we're going to continue playing.  We're going to play the game and have a good time and do what we're used to doing.  Believe me, we will return.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT