WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC: 1ST ROUND POOL C
March 11, 2017
Tony Pena
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Dominican Republic - 7, USA - 5
Q. How does it have ten straight wins, including two victories against the U.S., coming from behind with both?  Does it feel good?
TONY PEÑA: You feel good every time you win in the ballgame.  You have to feel good.  But the way we came from behind today it was an unbelievable thing.  That's where it shows how the guys are playing; they're playing with their heart.
And at no time did it cross our minds to admit defeat.  We continued to fight until we achieved what we wanted.  And thank God, God gave us that strength and that power.
Q. You seem to be very emotional.  You have had some extremely emotional games.  That play in left field, at any moment could it be that both players made an error?
TONY PEÑA: Well, look, when you're playing before a crowd as the one today, you lose communication.  So what happened, they called for the ball, but they could not hear each other and that happens all the time in the game.
Q. Now you have beaten two baseball legends, Joe Torre and Jim Leyland.  How do you feel about that?
TONY PEÑA: As a manager I don't play.  I give directions, but the guys won the game.  But they are two people that I have so much respect for, Joe Torre and Jim Leyland.  I worked with Jim Torre as a coach, and I played for Jim Leyland with the Pirates.  They are two baseball people that I appreciate a lot.
But I feel happy that the players played as they did.
Q. Before the game, in the instructions, in the talks, at the meeting, at any time did you tell the players not to feel pressure with all the Dominican fans?  Because the fans are supportive but they can also add pressure.  Did you feel that at all?
TONY PEÑA: No, they were all ready.  All the guys knew that this park was full and it was full of Dominicans.  We were all aware of that, but we didn't talk about that at all.
Q. Do you feel any satisfaction that it was Nelson that hit it out at that moment?
TONY PEÑA: The satisfaction is for everyone, for all of us.  We are all going in the same direction.  And whenever one of the guys does something as they did, you feel happy.
Thank God that Nelson Cruz could hit it and then Marte came with another bit hit.  So you feel good because we are a group of men, but as men, we are one and we are pulling for one another.
Q. How does it feel to be play as the home team so far away from the island?
TONY PEÑA: I don't think we deserve that because we were the champions, and we're going to play two times, we have to be the home club twice and ones as visitor.
Yes, it's a bit strange, because we are so far away from our country.  We are doing the home club away from home.
Q. (No microphone).
TONY PEÑA: It was as if we were in at a Tigres de Licey game.
Q. How does it feel to win against the United States in front of those Dominican fans?  What does it tell the country?
TONY PEÑA: It was a great satisfaction.  The country knows that those guys are devoted and that we're going to continue.  The first line that we continue from here, which the winning team will go on to San Diego, tomorrow's game is very important.  It could be that we could have a three-way tie.  So we have to get ready to come and play tomorrow.
Q. You have lived through many emotions.  You were a player, a manager, a coach.  And emotions are very important in this game.  When you got to the fifth inning, (no microphone)?
TONY PEÑA: Well, the excitement is big because we faced a pitcher that was difficult.  He was tough.  He was on a short leash, and when they took him out on the fifth inning, then we exhaled.  We were able to capitalize.  But the satisfaction is huge in baseball, as I always say, baseball is a box of surprises.  You have to play 27 outs and until you get to 27 outs, there is still a ballgame.  I never feel comfortable.  I'm always walking up and down because I don't feel comfortable.
Q. In addition to the noise of the victory, was there a time in the game that you thought that your defensive lineup could have cost you the game?  And with respect to tomorrow's game, Nabil Crismatt was named as the starter tomorrow.  Have you been able to see any videos on him or have a strategy for tomorrow?
TONY PEÑA: We haven't had any time.  We go game by game.  We try to play game by game, and the things that happen on the field, you know they are not robots nor machines.  They are human beings.  Those things happen.  If we had lost the game, I wouldn't have blamed anyone because none of those guys wants to make a mistake.  Mistakes do happen in the field.
Q. Maybe this will go unnoticed, but there was a key moment in the game that you could have substituted maybe Welington Castillo, but it worked out and he came up with a double.  Did it cross your mind to replace him or were you trusting that it was Castillo's time?
TONY PEÑA: It did not even cross my mind.  I have my complete confidence in each of those guys, and there will be no replacements, except for defense reasons.  Castillo is one of the best-hitting catchers.  So, I cannot replace -- it did not even cross my mind.
I'm not saying that I won't do it 100%, because baseball is always a surprise, but, no, it did not even cross my mind.
Q. Could you tell us briefly what did you experience, moment by moment in the game, in that game that ended up with a script that ended up with a victory?
TONY PEÑA: I can tell you that from the fifth inning on I was trying to use all the boys.  So when we got those two runs (in the sixth inning), the coaches talked and I said, this game has to be stopped here.  And that's when we started to use the guys, Robles, Colome, because the idea is to stop it, because we have a good offensive team.
Q. Everybody knows how dominant Andrew Miller is but then the Dominican lineup was able to get to him, starting with that home run by Nelson Cruz.  How did you live through that in the dugout?
TONY PEÑA: When he came to pitch, I told the bullpen to get Familia warmed up.  Because if we get a lead, Familia would come in.  And thank God when we started, we had two batters on base, and maybe Nelson Cruz can connect on one, and that's how it happened.
Q. Tomorrow's game against Colombia is important, but tomorrow is it possible to play Segura, Polanco, Villar?  We will have seen in the last Classic you always try to have every guy play.
TONY PEÑA: Tomorrow's game is extremely important for us.  As I said before, I have confidence in all my guys, Segura will definitely be playing tomorrow because I told him before tonight's game, You'll be playing tomorrow, regardless of what happens.  It is very difficult when you have to think of having to sit your captain and the best second baseman in baseball.  I have all the guys to play, but I'm going to sleep and I'm going to sleep on it and then I'll make the lineup.
Q. What can you tell us about Neris, who came out in a moment that you needed to stop the bleeding?
TONY PEÑA: The information that we have about Neris is that Philadelphia Phillies, they use him for guys on base.  So I don't want him to start the innings because he's the best reliever we have for those situations.  So I brought him when I had to stop the game.
Q. The relievers are playing big roles, Deduno, Strop, were key before.  Now Neris and Robles and Abad and all the relievers have the responsibility, are they that crucial, are they the men responsible to stop any offense now?
TONY PEÑA: No, in the course of the game the only pitcher that I did not use as a reliever is Romero, because I have Valdez and also Deduno, who are the only two men that can give me two or three innings.  Those two.  So Jumbo pitched today, he got into trouble, then I brought Abad in because that's his job, to have him get out left-handers.
If I don't have confidence in the pitchers, why are they here?  They are here because I trust them.  I'll have them all play, but the game requires to have some men in some situations.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT