WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC: 1ST ROUND POOL C
March 9, 2017
Tony Pena
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Dominican Republic - 9, Canada - 2   
 Q.  Tony, 15 hits today, can you talk about how the offense was playing in the game?  
TONY PEÑA: Well, our team did a good job in being aggressive, but at the same time selective.  We did not have bad pitching, but we could make the necessary adjustments.  And when this team has the lead, everyone knows the type of bullpen that we have.  We can close out the game.   
 Q.  Good start today.  What's most important when you choose the first lineup and later the managing the pitching staff, we ask you that because you manage with a lot of balance to have everyone play but at the same time to adapt to the opponent.  What's most important when making a lineup?  
TONY PEÑA: When you make the lineup with these type of players that we have, it's not that easy.  When you see a player such as Beltre batting seventh in the lineup, we made ten or twelve lineups before making this lineup today.  And that's something that the guys are here to play, and I'm going to try have them all play.  Why did we bring in Familia when we started the inning with Rodney?  Familia has not been to a Classic.  Betances has not been in a Classic.  Abad has not been to a Classic.  So I expected a difficult situation, so I wanted to have them in here, so they can experience what this type of event is like.   
 Q.  After the first game with a day off is it easy with Miami beach, South Beach and Miami, is it easy to come back on Saturday?  
TONY PEÑA: Look, we're going to practice tomorrow, just in case, okay?  The bus leaves at 8 in the morning.  So, we did not come here to relax.  We are still training and the training continues.  So, I have to continue training with the guys as if it were a game, as it's any other game in training camp.   
 Q.  Clearly the selection of Carlos Martinez against a weaker opponent, is unquestionable.  Now that you have this victory and you're going against the United States, what do you think of Edinson Volquez, he's a veteran that been on big stages, and what made you keep that order?  
TONY PEÑA: Look, I may be different, sometimes you cannot use your best people against the best.  So, Canada has a great team, as you can see.  They don't strike out, they are always putting the ball in play.  And in the beginning I thought of Carlos Martinez to start the first game.  Volquez is a pitcher that has a lot more experience than Carlos Martinez.  So I decided in favor of Carlos because he's a power pitcher and in addition to that, he pitches well -- with this lineup of left-handers, we don't have so many left-hand pitchers in our team, so I need an arm such as Carlos Martinez to be able to neutralize the offense.   
Carlos, he should have had 65 pitches, but he pitched four innings.  That's why I didn't send him back because there was no reason to send him back.  So that he wouldn't get hurt.   
 Q.  Two questions.  Number one, will you keep Adrian Beltre as your designated hitter or will he play against the U.S. at third base?  Out of so many good players that could come out in relief, who is your closer at this time?  
TONY PEÑA: I let my guys know that I have no closer.  I'm going to close the game -- when my starter comes out, I'm going to try to close the game.   
So, with respect to Adrian, I have to sleep on that, and let's wait.   
 Q.  What can we expect with respect to the United States to get ready, what's your mindset now?  
TONY PEÑA: Look, our mindset is to be focused and to come here and do what we know how to do, to play baseball.  All the guys know all eyes are upon us, and we all have to be focused and to be able to face anything.   
 Q.  It has been said that this is not a fight, your first official game, what did you like best today?  
TONY PEÑA: I saw an unbelievable offense.  I saw an extremely good defense.  I see a good group of men pitch, and with control at-bat.  They had very good control, and all the guys did a great job.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT