NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINAL: PENGUINS VS SENATORS
May 24, 2017
Craig Anderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What kind of pressure on a goalie in a Game 7?  Any different?  
CRAIG ANDERSON: No different than the other night.  Any time it's an elimination game, you want to just come out and give it your best effort.  You do everything you possibly can to prepare yourself for the game, and then just leave it all out there.   
 Q.  Are you okay with another 45 shots?  
CRAIG ANDERSON: Whatever it takes.  I think you've got to be prepared for anything, stay in the moment as best you can.  When you're in the moment, you're just worrying about the next shift.  I don't think you worry too much about how many shots.   
 Q.  Can you feed off a game like that?  
CRAIG ANDERSON: I hope so.  I think it's one of those games where we do a lot of good things.  We got rewarded for some of the stuff that we're doing well.  So going forward, we just want to make sure that we continue with what has been working for us and try to minimize our mistakes.   
 Q.  Does preparation change at all for you, Andy, on the road?  
CRAIG ANDERSON: Nothing.  Nothing's changed.  You know, you try to keep the same routine, the same preparation level day in and day out as far as these playoffs go.  Play good, play bad, it doesn't matter.  Keep your routine the same.  It just takes one of the elements out of the equation.   
 Q.  (No microphone)?  
CRAIG ANDERSON: No, I think just get a little puck luck too.  I think you need to be a little bit lucky to be good at times.  Yesterday wasn't any different.  Whether it's a bouncing puck that goes our way or it's a good play defensively to break up a play, or just being in the right spot at the right time or the guy just missing his shot.  So you try to do everything the same, and sometimes you need a little puck luck on your side to have some success.   
 Q.  Is there any difference having a Game 7 on the road?  
CRAIG ANDERSON: No, I don't think it matters.  The venue doesn't matter.  I think the game of hockey doesn't change.  How you play doesn't change.  It's just which fans are yelling at you.  That's about the only thing that changes.   
 Q.  Craig, you mentioned it a little bit last night.  Can you talk about how important the power of positive thinking is to you.  
CRAIG ANDERSON: It's huge.  The mind is a powerful thing.  I think history and the scientific data behind using your brain, using visualization as a tool to get yourself better.  I think, if you believe you're beaten, you're done already.  If you believe that you can win, there's always a chance.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT