NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINAL: PENGUINS VS SENATORS
May 20, 2017
Craig Anderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
CRAIG ANDERSON: I think we played some good hockey through these first four.  Two of the games we played really well.  The other two we gave ourselves a chance.   
I think as long as we keep playing the way we're capable of playing, we give ourselves an opportunity to put ourselves in a good spot.   
 Q.  Being on the road doesn't seem to make a difference either?  
CRAIG ANDERSON: I think it's one of those things where the game doesn't change.  The scenery changes.  But the style of game, the object of the game, doesn't change no matter what building you're in.   
 Q.  If you don't play on the power play, tough question, this team is not generating anything from it.  
CRAIG ANDERSON: I thought we did a pretty good job in the previous games of generating some momentum.  Sometimes you don't get rewarded for your efforts.  But the momentum can be a game-changer.   
Last night was definitely one of those nights where momentum went the other way, kind of like Game 1 for them when their power play wasn't going.   
You know, take it with a grain of salt, move on.  There's going to be certain power plays you're going to play really well, there's going to be power plays where the penalty kill has your numbers.  Don't read into it too much.   
 Q.  Is it sad you've had to be the best player at times on your power play (laughter)?  
CRAIG ANDERSON: I think it's one of those things where you have to hope for the best, hope you're scoring goals, but you have to expect the worst.   
 Q.  How do you view the opportunity of best two-out-of-three?  
CRAIG ANDERSON: You simplify it even more.  You start out with the best-of-seven.  Mentally you look at it as the best-of-three.   
As a player, I think you look at it more as one game at a time.  You can break it down even more into winning each period at a time, just try to simplify your game so you're not putting the cart ahead of the horse.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT