NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINAL: PENGUINS VS SENATORS
May 12, 2017
Craig Anderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Guy is pushing since the start of the Playoffs, maybe all season, that underdog role, like hey, we're the underdogs, nobody expects us -- can you still push it, do you think, or is that a thing of the past when you get to these Conference Finals?  
CRAIG ANDERSON: You know, I think obviously there's certain expectations set forth as us as individuals and as a team inside the room.  You know, we know we're a good hockey team.  You don't get this far without being a good hockey team.  But at the same time, you know, obviously there's a lot of outside opinions that believe what they believe.  You know, according to plan, according to how the season played out, et cetera, et cetera, you know, in theory, I guess we are still, quote-unquote, an underdog.   
 Q.  Has that mentality, the push, has that helped you guys at all to have that?  Does it make the game any easier to play?  Does it make the pressure come off a little bit when the coach is pushing that?  
CRAIG ANDERSON: No, I think there's always self-induced pressure from the guys within the room and yourself, and once the puck drops, you know, all that kind of noise is not even on the forefront.  It's so buried inside your head, you don't even think about it.  But that's why you play the games.   
 Q.  From where you sit, what's it going to take to beat Pittsburgh four times out of seven?  
CRAIG ANDERSON: You know, good team unity, good teamwork, the way you start the game 0-0, and if you limit their opportunities, you give yourself an opportunity.  You know, I like our chances with the way we've been playing, and our guys showed when we played the Rangers, when we did get our scoring chances, we were able to connect.  It's just one of those things where it's going to be a hard series.  It's going to be a good series, and we're looking forward to it.   
 Q.  Do you also like your chances based on the way that they've played?  
CRAIG ANDERSON: I haven't really followed too much of their games, so you know, we're more focused on what we're going to do and how we're going to play.  If we play the way we're capable of playing and the way we want to play, at the end of the day, we can just look at ourselves in the mirror saying that we gave it all and seeing where the chips fall as they may.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT