ING NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
November 4, 2010
Abel Kirui
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. How's your fitness going into Sunday's race? 
 ABEL KIRUI: Oh, I am thinking it's not bad. It's good.

 Q. Just how different are different marathon race courses as far as the ones that are very flat or here that is so hilly. Just how different is it to run a very flat marathon than here with all the hills? 
 ABEL KIRUI: To keep it in balance. 

 Q. How different is it as a marathoner? 
 ABEL KIRUI: Oh, yes, the course, what matters is what you prepare before you go to the race. Because the uphills, and sometimes maybe looking another site, and then you know this is different than where flat where you can go fluid like this. So this one depends on the previous race. Because before we went we had to study the course in Paris. And for New York preparation, you have to be prepared for this. Otherwise you will get maybe an Achilles or an injury?

 Q. Do you think some runners are just better at hills than others, no matter how much you train on hills? 
 ABEL KIRUI: Of course, some athletes may be faster, but they don't have the endurance, so you may be faster, but you may not finish. 
 So I think actually it depends on the previous training.

 Q. Who do you think right now is the best marathoner in the world on the hills? Is there someone you think especially good at running hills? 
 ABEL KIRUI: Like I say, this guy who won Boston, because it's very hard to run 1:05, that's for sure. For sure.

 Q. And how fast do you think the record could be here in New York? 
 ABEL KIRUI: Sunday? 

 Q. Yeah, just in the future, if it's good weather, what do you think the record could be on this kind of course? 
 ABEL KIRUI: For sure, I am thinking the kind of training now and the kind of the machines that athletes are using and the special kind of treatment, it is coming to even 2:05, like in Boston, or even 2:04, yes.

 Q. We'll see how the weather is Sunday. 
 ABEL KIRUI: Yes. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT