ING NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
October 31, 2008
Abderrahime Bouramdane
Marilson Gomes dos Santos
Abderrahim Goumri
Abel Kirui
Hosea Rotich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  RICHARD FINN: As you can see, we have wall to wall athletes here, and to introduce them and get to the final part of this program, Mary?   
 MARY WITTENBERG: Thank you, Richard. The men's field is stacked and includes former champions Tergat, Ramaala, Marilson Gomes dos Santos. For a bit more of the view of the field, let's look at the video.   
 (Video shown.)  
MARY WITTENBERG: Right to our athletes, I'd like to begin with Abel Kirui. We know you best by the Berlin Marathon, an amazing second place finish last year, been in Haile's shadow as Haile won the race. You ran a 2:06, incredible race, and then this year through 30K, past 30K, paced Haile to another world record in Berlin. Did you get out of the race early enough in Berlin to save something for your legs in New York?   
 ABEL KIRUI: Of course it was my preparation to New York, and I really wanted to test my body and I was feeling okay after pacing very well and I was in good shape enough to at least make something at the end.   
 MARY WITTENBERG: Hosea Rotich, we welcome you back to New York, an amazing Paris with a 2:07 run. You have a funny story about how you started running and how Simon Wangui discovered you were fast. Can you share your story?   
 HOSEA ROTICH: Well, in Kenya I was a forest ranger, so when Simon Wangui was knocking down trees, I caught him, so when he ran away, I had to run after him and I caught him. After that we were good friends and we started training and it was 2003 to 2006, we trained for three years. In 2006 I was champion in Nairobi Marathon, so I'm privileged to know him, he's my mentor, and he's not going to be in the forest knocking down trees.   
 MARY WITTENBERG: Park ranger turned contender to win the New York City ING Marathon 2008.   
 Next, a gentleman that asked in Boston if he could run New York this year. I said, "If you finish in the top four, we'll welcome you to New York." Abderrahime Bouramdane, you went out there in Boston and not only finished in the top four but ran an incredibly impressive second place to Robert Cheruiyot. We welcome you. You earned your way here. How are you feeling going into Sunday?   
 ABDERRAHIME BOURAMDANE: Sorry I am speaking little English because I am coming to New York City Marathon. It's confirmation in my career to second place in Boston Marathon, and thank you because I am in the New York City Marathon. This is my first time in New York. I am very happy and good confirmation in my career. Thank you.   
 MARY WITTENBERG: Our 2006 ING New York City Marathon champion. Our most popular champion with people in the city in many, many, many years. When this champion crossed the line, not that many people sitting in those stands knew who he was, but a lot of people throughout New York City knew who he was. Our Brazilian champion, our first-ever South American champion, we're so pleased to welcome back Marilson Gomes dos Santos to New York.   
 Last year Marilson came back off a huge personal best in the World Half Marathon. This year when I saw Marilson in his home country of Brazil running the World Half, he said right away his focus was New York, and no matter how important a World Half in his home country was, he was saving it for New York and didn't run as hard, as fast.   
 Marilson, we welcome you back. How are you feeling looking forward to Sunday?   
 MARILSON GOMES dos SANTOS: The reason that I have an aim in New York City Marathon is because it matches very well my personality and the characteristics of my own, and that's why I put all my effort and all my focus onto this marathon.   
 After my half marathon recently done in Rio, I believe that I can get some good results in New York.   
 MARY WITTENBERG: Can you share which characteristics those are?   
 MARILSON GOMES dos SANTOS: Actually I make Saõ Paulo the place where I live and where I train. Saõ Paulo is very like New York with the city weather. I got accustomed by it. Another factor is that Saõ Paulo has a lot of hill up and hill down, and that actually helped me very much to train for this marathon.   
 MARY WITTENBERG: Thank you. Next, from Morocco, age 32. Since making his marathon debut in London in 2007, this gentleman has been on a tear, second in London in 2007, second in New York, both times to Martin Lel. This year in the spring in just one of the most incredible races we've watched in men's racing, Goumri was third and ran a 2:05 in London. After a tough Olympics, he comes back here to New York. We welcome you back. There's no Martin Lel (laughter). I know you were looking forward to your chance at him. You haven't had that big major win, although you've had the major runs. How are you feeling going into Sunday?   
 ABDERRAHIM GOUMRI: Thank you very much. I am so happy to come again in New York City Marathon. This year I know it's something special because all the three marathon I do, I just losing at the last moment.   
 This year I am so excited to do a big race in New York, and I hope I can win on Sunday. I'm feeling very well, and I train very well. I feel after the Olympics I am strong, and I hope I can do very good race on Sunday.   
 RICHARD FINN: We'll take a question or two from the floor and then again we'll break it down for everybody in the back.   
 Just a reminder, 1:00 o'clock here in this room we'll have Paula Radcliffe this afternoon, so we welcome back to stay, do their work, have some lunch. The working room is open.   
  
  Q. Just to pick up on something that Mary mentioned, Abderrahim, how much do you miss Martin Lel, and when you heard he broke his foot and wasn't going to be here, what were your feelings?   
 ABDERRAHIM GOUMRI: I meet him this morning at the hotel, and he said I should win this year (laughter). I told him I am so strong, I want you this year, too.   
  
  Q. When you heard he had broken his foot and wasn't going to run, were you happy or sad?   
 ABDERRAHIM GOUMRI: Yeah, I am sad because it's an exciting race. Having someone strong at the finish it's so exciting for me, the marathon, to test yourself. It's okay, I am so happy because I don't have -- you have strong athlete, and when someone is not running you know you have like some percentage to win. I am so sad for him, too. I hope for him to get well and come back to the race.   
 RICHARD FINN: What I would like everybody to do here is just stay still, stay in your seats just for a second. We're going to move the athletes now. We're going to put them all in the back, separate tables, the wheelchair athletes are in the bag, Brandi and Kerri are in the back. Mary will be available. We're going to do first one photo here and then we're going to have the ladies escort the athletes. Thank you very much.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT