NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: MIGHTY DUCKS v DEVILS
June 9, 2003
Ken Daneyko
John Madden
Steve Thomas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  John, short of putting the puck in the net, is that the start you need to win the Stanley Cup? 

JOHN MADDEN:   Yeah, we know that the refs are not going to help us on some calls there, we let the stick go but none of body checks are being called tonight which is very unusual.  We played a solid period and we have to keep playing a second and third and keep working hard.

Q.  Obviously the challenge is to keep going at that level until you put the puck past Giguere is there frustration of not having the lead?

JOHN MADDEN:   No, it's frustrating not getting any shots.  We are taking to them right now, second period is usually our best so we are going to go up there and try to score. 

Q.  Steve Thomas, I can't imagine how a team would compose itself with a Game 7 on the line, how much have the Ducks tried to? 

STEVE THOMAS:   We are going out there and hoping that we can keep our emotions controlled and then play our game.  We've been successful playing 60 minutes of Duck hockey, and if you get into a bit of trouble, just try to calm things down and get pucks in and pucks out and take deep breaths and just stay with it.

Q.  Were you pleased with the level of composure in the first? 

STEVE THOMAS:   Well, we can still pick it up a level, we know that.  We've got to get our legs moving a little more and I don't know what it is about this building but we are going to fight through that.
 

Q.  How did it feel to get the word that you were going to play? 

KEN DANEYKO:   I've got to tell you, I was a little bit surprised.  I'm glad he put faith in me.  I'm just staying positive and working real hard days that I knew I wasn't in and he put me back in so I'm just proud to be back in.

Q.  Do you feel like a grizzled veteran or a rookie?

KEN DANEYKO:   I really do, I'm coming in and I just wanted to get my feet wet in the first period and just trying to do my job and help us win this Game 7. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT