NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: STARS v DEVILS
June 10, 2000
Ken Daneyko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. I was wondering if you could talk about the significance of this Cup to the veterans
that were here in 1995?

KEN DANEYKO: I mean, for some reason it seems to have more of a special feeling. I
mean, the first one was kind of a whirlwind, obviously the shortened season and
everything, but you know, it was unbelievable, don't get me wrong, but the second one I
always said, I know for me personally, cherish it a little bit more. I understand the
sacrifice, dedication, everything that the guys on this team went through and obviously it
was special for me. Dr. McMullen is selling the team and this is something that I really
wanted to dedicate to him from my heart. I know a lot of other guys felt the same way. He
deserved to go out a champion. It certainly was unbelievable.

Q. Can you talk a little bit about Scott Stevens winning the Conn Smythe obviously a
guy like you ought to be --

KEN DANEYKO: I will tell you, I said it all Playoffs, I never seen the look in Scotty's
eye like this ever. He has been a great defensemen and probably going to be a Hall of
Famer one day but he had something this year that I'd never seen from Day-1. Just the look
he was -- the way he worked in practice everyday and he was a guy that set the tone every
series. He was kind of like jump on my back fellows because I am going to carry you and
that is exactly what he did and he certainly deserved the Conn Smythe and I think that
puts to rest Scotty Stevens' leadership ability because he is one of the best leaders I
have ever seen.

Q. How about what it says for defensemen who doesn't put up a lot of points and a
stay-at-home type of guy, defensive defensemen, to get recognized?

KEN DANEYKO: Sure, hey, everybody has got the role, realize. That it takes 24, 25 guys
from the scouting staff, Dave Conte and Hoffmeyer and the guys that log all those miles
and find the Rafalalskis and brings in the Maddens and Lou Lamoriello making the trades he
did for Malakhov and Mogilny, finding all the right pieces, it takes every single guy and
we understand the guys, the foot soldiers, myself, a guy like Colin White, coming in doing
what he did was just unbelievable and I think that is a big reason why this team won the
championship because everybody knew their role and they didn't try to step out of it.

Q. It has been a long road you; went through a lot of stuff off the ice. Could you
talks about what it feels like to get to here again and the perseverance that you had to
show to get here?

KEN DANEYKO: I am not going to lie, this is the greatest thing that since my kids being
born, I will tell you winning this Cup this second time around, be really able to cherish
this one and understand what it takes and obviously with some stuff in my personal life,
what I have been through, just makes it all worthwhile. I just thank God the organization
stuck with me and Lou and Dr. Mac and all I can do only -- (inaudible) my wife and me
going out on that ice and giving it my all every night. It makes everything all
worthwhile. I am just grateful of the New Jersey Devils right now.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT