RBC HERITAGE
April 16, 2017
Ollie Schniederjans
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Tell me about your excitement level as you're playing the front nine.  You roll in five birdies to get the day started?
OLLIE SCHNIEDERJANS: Yeah, it was an extremely solid front nine and everything you could ask for to start Sunday when you're five back and get right there in the mix.  I think I was tied for the lead or leading on the back nine most of the way.
Absolutely dream front nine.  And then the back was close.  I just didn't make the putts, really.  I was close, I hit a lot of good ones.  It's a fine line.
Q. Tell me about the emotion, again, as you're playing the back nine, because you've challenged for titles already this season and you did it again this week here at the RBC Heritage?
OLLIE SCHNIEDERJANS: Yeah, that's what I want to do here as much as I can is have a chance with nine holes left on Sunday, and just keep doing that.  I feel really patient right now.  I feel like good things are going to happen whenever they're going to happen.  This is a good thing here, top-5 finish, and locked up the playoffs, I'm sure.  I'm sure I'll get to play the FedExCup playoffs.
It was a great week and a good experience on the back, and I tried to win the golf tournament and I came up a little short maybe this time.  But another good experience on Sunday.
Q. Five back beginning this last day here at Harbour Town.  What was the plan to get in the mix and put some pressure on the ones you were chasing?
OLLIE SCHNIEDERJANS: When you're five back, there's really nothing you can do about the guys that are in the lead, if they shoot 5- or 6-under, there's nothing you can really do about that.  I felt like if I came out and shot 5- or 6-under, and I was turning 5-under, so the goal changed.
It was a challenge on the back.  I gave myself some chances and made some good putts that didn't go in.  It's a fine line.  And I'm proud of the patience I felt I had out there.  And it was close.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT