SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 23, 2015
Ollie Schniederjans
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  That's a fair first few days of work, 7-under par through 36 holes.  Are you pleased?  
OLLIE SCHNIEDERJANS: Yeah, very pleased.  I've really been working to try and make less bogeys and kind of keep rounds going and make the birdies count, and I only had one bogey each day, so I'm really pleased with that.  I played the par-5s better today.  I needed to hit some fairways on those yesterday, but today I did, so I made three birdies there.  I'm just playing solid, and I feel -- I'm happy to be in really good position heading into the weekend for sure.   
 Q.  You had such a hot summer as an amateur and we got to learn about Ollie Schniederjans, but now you're playing for your future.  What is your mindset when you come into events like this?  
OLLIE SCHNIEDERJANS: Yeah, you know, I talked to like Patrick, who kind of had the same situation last year.  I think we both have similar mindsets.  We kind of have a belief that we're going to make it at some point, and whatever our path is, it is what it is.  I believe I belong out here, and I'll make it out here at some point, whether it's with these -- whether it's this year or next year.  I'm just going to do the best I can and not put too much pressure on one particular event.  If I don't get it done this year in one way, then I'll keep trying.  I have great opportunities, but I really believe that it'll work out for me.   
 Q.  Does that belief come from seeing all of your peers whom you've competed against at the same level and beaten on many occasions, or is it simply in built?  
OLLIE SCHNIEDERJANS: I think it's a little bit of both.  I feel I definitely have a lot of belief in myself and that I'm going to work hard enough, and that I have the skill set to be able to figure it out, and I've shown it in big tournaments I've played, in majors.  I've played two majors in the summer and played well, and I've been in contention in a few of these, and I've only played 13 pro events.  I think that gives me a lot of confidence for sure.  Results gives me a lot of confidence.  I was No. 2 in junior golf and No. 1 in amateur golf, so I feel like I've been able to kind of adjust to every level.  It gives me a lot of confidence.   
 Q.  So what plans do you have for this fall?  
OLLIE SCHNIEDERJANS: Right now I'm in Mississippi, too, and then hopefully trying to get into McGladrey and also into Q-school.  I'm going to try to play out here as much as I can, through exemptions or Monday qualifiers, but I'm going to try and go through Q-school and do Web.com, as well, see which one I'm doing better with, and the goal is to obviously get status next year, be full status next year.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT