NCAA GOLF CHAMPIONSHIPS
May 26, 2014
Ollie Schniederjans
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We are joined by Georgia Tech student athlete Ollie Schniederjans, head coach Bruce Heppler from Georgia Tech.   Ollie, we'll start out if we can have an opening statement and then we'll take some questions. 
OLLIE SCHNIEDERJANS:   Well, just excited to get going tomorrow.   The big stuff is ahead.   Two big matches hopefully, and going to be very exciting. 

Q.   Your round was nothing like Cameron's.   Talk about the final round, had some ups and then some downs, as well. 
OLLIE SCHNIEDERJANS:   Yeah, I played awesome.   I made a terrible double on 5 and I three‑putted for bogey on 9, and then I missed a couple four‑footers on the back, and I still shot 2‑under par.   So I played really well. 

Q.   When those things are happening, do you think you still have a chance at this thing?
OLLIE SCHNIEDERJANS:   I'm just focused on what's in front of me.   I don't have time to waste my energy on worrying about other things.   I'm just making sure I take care of my shot that I'm on at the moment. 

Q.   Do you come back and focus on the team aspect of it? 
OLLIE SCHNIEDERJANS:   I think I'll be ready to go as soon as I get a good night's sleep tonight and have a good breakfast.   I'll be very focused to do what I can in my match tomorrow. 

Q.   What kind of expectations did you have playing in a playoff like that?
OLLIE SCHNIEDERJANS:   I've had a few playoffs like that.   Match play last year in the semifinals, and I birdied the first hole.   Lots of different things can happen.   I've been successful a lot in playoffs, and I did okay.   Had a putt on 10 to win it.   Eventually one of us was going to birdie, and he made a nice wedge shot and made a nice putt. 

Q.   The putt on 10, can you kind of talk us through how‑‑
OLLIE SCHNIEDERJANS:   It was a really tough putt to read.   I hit the putt far and hit it like I wanted.   It broke a lot.   It was kind of a little bit tough to read, shadows and big break. 

Q.   Was your lie on 17 as bad as it looked? 
OLLIE SCHNIEDERJANS:   Yeah, awful.   I just swung as hard as I could with an 8‑iron at it and hoped it went out normal, and it came out nice.

Q.   You had to be pretty happy with that. 
OLLIE SCHNIEDERJANS:   I was very happy with that.

Q.   What were you thinking were the possible outcomes of taking a big swing?
OLLIE SCHNIEDERJANS:   Maybe come out sideways and go in the stuff again, or it could have done anything, but I still thought it would come out fine.   I just needed to get it in the fairway and have a wedge shot. 

Q.   Now going as a team into the match play, how do you feel about where you guys are? 
OLLIE SCHNIEDERJANS:   I feel great about my game, and I think Seth is playing awesome and the guys are all showing good signs.   Any of us can win a match against anybody, and we have some good experience.   I think it'll just come down to how we play.   I think mentally we'll be fine and we'll be able to cope with the pressure. 

Q.   Does this season feel different or this tournament feel different to you than last year because of the experience and maybe the expectation? 
OLLIE SCHNIEDERJANS:   I think every tournament is different.   It's not going to feel the same as last year.   I think last year‑‑ well, last year we had the home advantage, and playing on a course we were pretty familiar with in the Alpharetta area.   That was very different.   This feels different just because we're in Kansas, not Alpharetta.

Q.   Do you feel like you've seen everything this course can throw at you at this point, all the different conditions?
OLLIE SCHNIEDERJANS:   No, we haven't gotten these different conditions.   It was south wind both times we played, both days we played, and it didn't get above 15 miles an hour.   I know it can go from the north 20 tomorrow and it'll be a whole different course.   But we came out in the fall and we got a couple good practice rounds on some windy days from the north and the south.   That was really good for us to get to do that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT