BARRACUDA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 2, 2018
Ollie Schniederjans
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Pretty good round today.  Obviously you must be pretty happy with that start.  Nice way to finish as well?  
OLLIE SCHNIEDERJANS: Yeah, it was really good.  Eagles are huge in this format.  So it's a little more nerve-racking, three-footer being three more points.  It's interesting you have putts that are worth more than others.  But really good finish and played really good.   
 Q.  Coming here, you played a couple of times.  You haven't had a lot of success at this event.  What was your mindset coming in?  
OLLIE SCHNIEDERJANS: I got better dealing with altitude and my distances on approach shots.  And I was just coming out extremely aggressive.  But just my game is finally coming around.  I really feel in control of my swing for the first time in a while.  So I felt really good coming in.  And I kind of wanted to just get playing, because I felt like my stuff was finally in a place really good.  Instead of taking a week off, I kind of wanted to get on a roll, play a little bit before the PGA and roll into next week with some rounds.  And that was a really good one there.   
 Q.  Looked today like the key to the round was the scrambling.  Every time you missed a green you got up-and-down.  
OLLIE SCHNIEDERJANS: Yeah, everything was sort of going well -- good putting, good short game, hit it awesome.  I hit some wedges a little too far.  So I missed some opportunities from the fairway with lead shots, I just flew it over the pin.  But a couple of times I flew it over the green and got up-and-down with a wedge.  I'm hitting it really nice.  Probably just gotta dial in those wedge yardages a little better.  But it was a really good round.   
 Q.  Do you like the change in format, going to Stableford?  Some guys talked about how it allows you to be a bit more aggressive than you might be on other tournament weeks?  
OLLIE SCHNIEDERJANS: It does.  You definitely adjust your strategy when an eagle's five points.  You're not hitting 3-wood off the tee on a par-5.  You're hitting it -- on 18, for example, is a tough tee shot; it's really narrow.  And I think I would be tempted to hit 3-wood with a normal format, but today I'm hitting driver as far down there as I can, get an iron shot in there, and I took advantage today and made an eagle.   
 Q.  What did you hit from 276 on the last?  
OLLIE SCHNIEDERJANS: It was 276, wow.  It was downhill, a ton of elevation.  I hit 5-iron into 276.  My number in my head was 225, but, yeah, 276, I guess, actual.   
 Q.  How long does it take you to get acclimated when you come to a tournament like this with the elevation change?  
OLLIE SCHNIEDERJANS: It takes some rounds.  I played -- this is my third time coming here, so I felt like I knew coming in what to look for.  And just got on TrackMan.  And it's tricky, because every shot can be different.  You hit a wedge shot or a high or a low shot, it's different.  Time of day makes it different.   
So it's anywhere from three percent on a little wedge shot in the morning to 10 to 12 percent in the middle of the day with a long iron (indiscernible) out.  So you've got to pick your percentage, somewhere between three and 12 depending on the temperature and time of day and how high you're hitting it.  So it's a lot to calculate.   
 Q.  Is that Georgia Tech education come in handy having to crunching all those numbers?  
OLLIE SCHNIEDERJANS: It's pretty simple math, but I think it helps.   
 Q.  What about the wind?  When it (indiscernible) and you're trying to account for change --  
OLLIE SCHNIEDERJANS: The wind makes it really tough.  I do the elevation first.  I factor in the flight that I'm going to hit, and I do the elevation first.  And then I factor in the wind.  I'm actually glad the last few holes I got to play some in the wind because I think it's going to be really windy in the afternoon tomorrow.  I think I have a good idea for how the wind is affecting the ball out here.   
And also it just does not go the direction that The Weather Channel says.  So you've kind of just got to just trust the -- most weeks it does.  It goes the direction that The Weather Channel has it.  It will be very true to that.  But here it was kind of opposite.  And it was a little yesterday in the pro-am, too.  So I'm going to trust what it feels like because I think that's what it's doing.  I'm glad I got a couple of holes of that in the end.   
 Q.  Great start for you.  Talk about your experience (indiscernible).  
OLLIE SCHNIEDERJANS: I'm just playing better.  I'm playing a lot better.  I've worked really, really hard on my game.  It's been a struggle this year with my full game.  I've been working on it really hard.  And I've gotten a lot smarter about what I'm doing, and I just got something clicking and I know what I'm doing and it's coming off like I want it to and I got a couple of drills that are helping me out.  So it's finally, I feel like I'm in a really good place for the first time in a while with my full game.   
 Q.  Must give you confidence for tomorrow, too, going forward playing as well as you did today?  
OLLIE SCHNIEDERJANS: Yeah, huge confidence round, bogey free and a bunch of birdies and an eagles, a really, really good day.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT