WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 4, 2018
Ollie Schniederjans
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Another strong finish.  What do these high finishes do for your confidence?
OLLIE SCHNIEDERJANS: Just close, I think, again this week.  Just really coming after it, trying to get that first win.  So it was really a positive week, really needed to putt better to probably win.  I made a nice charge there at the last nine holes and bogey-free on Sunday is very, very good.
Q. What happened on the second shot on 18?
OLLIE SCHNIEDERJANS: I just whiffed it.  I actually had a perfect distance for me and everything and I just made a poor swing, just kind of fanned it, so it didn't have all, didn't have the drive in, the driving flight to it and just came up probably a few steps short and spun down off the ridge.
Q. Did you have a target number in mind coming down the stretch the last few holes?
OLLIE SCHNIEDERJANS: No, I just was, I was just doing my thing, trying to do my job the best I could and same as the rest of the week.  Just tried to execute.  And I figured I needed to go get it to like 17-under probably to have a chance.
Q. Does it get more frustrating the closer you get to winning or is it just more confidence building than anything?
OLLIE SCHNIEDERJANS: No, it's not -- I'm just trying to do my job the best I can and give myself as many chances as I can to close it out.  Really just didn't make enough putts the first three days to give myself a great chance today.  I was, it was an outside shot and really just a great back nine to have probably a top-5 finish.
Q. 15, the par-5 here, an eagle putt to get into the tie for the lead.  What's going through your mind at this stage?
OLLIE SCHNIEDERJANS: Two really good shots just to get on the green there.  It's kind of a dangerous hole but if you hit two good shots you can take advantage.  So on that putt just trying it lag it up there close and I was very pleased with that.
Q. No. 16.  You have this par putt and you take your right hand off the putter.  Tell us about that and how it evolved.
OLLIE SCHNIEDERJANS: Yeah, I have, I like to kind of take my right hand out of play with my stroke.  So when I don't really need it for speed I kind of do this drill where I take my right hand off the putter and it's really effective.  So I just took it to the course.
Q. 17th hole, you pull your tee shot left and then play an incredibly brave second shot.  Talk about this one.
OLLIE SCHNIEDERJANS: At this point I'm not going to try to not win the tournament, so I felt like I needed to birdie the last two.  I kind of went for that flag off the tee and made a poor swing, got lucky to have a shot.  And from there I had to do something fancy and try to bank it up there and pulled off a good shot and thought I made the putt.
Q. What do you do next?
OLLIE SCHNIEDERJANS: Just hang out, drink some water, probably get some lunch and see what happens.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT