WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 20, 2017
Ollie Schniederjans
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Ollie, you know you came so close but what a valeant effort.  Your thoughts on today, man.  
OLLIE SCHNIEDERJANS: I leave with no regrets.  I played as hard as I could and met all my goals mentally out there and gave myself a great chance and 1 back and 64 on Sunday.  I would have taken that at the beginning of the day for sure and liked my chances.   
 Q.  There were a number of highlights but I thought the save on 10 was the catapult for a big back-9.  
OLLIE SCHNIEDERJANS: That was massive.  And also come back, par save on 14 to keep my round going.  That was huge, too.  I did -- bogey-free, I did everything I was trying to do and came up one short.  But best tournament I've ever played in four rounds.   
 Q.  Playoffs upcoming?  
OLLIE SCHNIEDERJANS: Hopefully.   
 Q.  Ties what was the previous tournament record with 72 holes with the great run today.  Henrik, one better.  What do you take out of today putting the pressure on Henrik and to go on in this tournament?  
OLLIE SCHNIEDERJANS: Great day, totally bogey-free, 64 today I would have liked my chances.  I have no regrets.  I met all my goals, played great and finished great and put a lot of pressure on Henrik and played a special round as well with the lead so it was -- that was the best tournament I ever played for four rounds.  I gave it my best and one short.  Lots to take from this one and excited for the Playoffs.   
 Q.  You can take that momentum that you picked up today to New York.  How optimistic do you feel heading into the Playoffs considering what you did here this week?  
OLLIE SCHNIEDERJANS: It's just been a lot of fun to make some putts.  I haven't been putting well much of this year.  I've been putting myself in good positions tee to green and not capitalizing.  Getting the putter rolling was a blast this week to see some putts go in, keep the rounds going.  It was huge for me for four days.  I putted well all week.  It was awesome.   
 Q.  What can you take away from this week, Ollie?  
OLLIE SCHNIEDERJANS: Probably the best I ever played for four days.  I putted awesome all week.  No regrets from today.  Played as hard as I could and met all my goals mentally and I would have taken 64 to start the day and liked my chances of winning.   
So, lot of positives, obviously, and thrilling to be there in the mix on Sunday and form like that.   
 Q.  How much scoreboard watching were you doing?  Do you know that you had to get it done on 18 where you nearly holed it?  
OLLIE SCHNIEDERJANS: I didn't know I needed to hole it.  I thought if I birdied -- Henrik looks like he made a long putt, too, on 17 and then 18 is a really hard hole.  When I stuffed it I thought, you know, that's probably going to be a playoff and he birdied 17 and good par on 18.  Hats off to him.  He had a great finish, too, and one short.   
 Q.  Did that surprise you at all you came up with the goods after not being in that situation on Tour but going back to when you were an amateur, you did that all the time?  
OLLIE SCHNIEDERJANS: Well, I've been in the mix like probably four times this year where I felt this same heat on the back-9 where I had a chance.  I like to think I've gained some experience this year playing on Sunday, say four times before this where I had a good chance to win on the back-9.   
So, this was the best performance I've had in that situation, the cleanest, bogey-free, which is really good.  Been just a very positive year and learned a lot, gained a lot on each aspect of my game and so close today.   
 Q.  You can go deep in The Playoffs now.  
OLLIE SCHNIEDERJANS: Yeah.  The goal to start the year was to make it to East Lake.  This is a huge boost heading into the Playoffs.  Points are extremely high in the Playoffs so if you keep up the good play, get another good tournament in before East Lake would be -- I meet my goal for the year.  Big step.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT