WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 19, 2017
Ollie Schniederjans
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Ollie, very impressive 3rd Round.  What were the emotions and you look to the lead out there on the back-9?  What were you thinking out there?
OLLIE SCHNIEDERJANS: I just today, I wanted to have good round.  The goal is to put four good rounds together.  Something I learned this year to have a good tournament out here takes four good rounds and got to keep plotting along for 72 holes.
Tried to not look at the leaderboard much today, it's Saturday.  Still hard.  But it's right in front of you.  I saw I had the lead there after I birdied 12 and thought I handled it pretty well the way in.  Made a good par save on 14, hit a good drive on 15, good up and down there.
Misjudged the wind plus didn't make a good swing on 16 and I got a horrible break, plugged under the bottom of the lip.  So I was lucky to get out of there with a 4.
And played last two, three, solid.  Overall, another good round and that's the goal tomorrow is to put up another good round and see what that gets you.
Q. I thought you showed a lot of patience at 16.
That was a dreadful lie and then you hammered into the face of the bunker.  What's going through your mind, because things are going pretty fast at that point?
OLLIE SCHNIEDERJANS: It sucks on a really what should be a pretty simple par 3.  I'm hitting 9-iron at the most there.  Just -- made a bad swing at a bad time plus misjudged the wind which is why I came up short.  I thought I was going to be pin high right fringe.  Kind of ballooned on me.
I thought it was downwind and then for it to perfectly plug under the low side of the lip, yeah, just trying to make 4 from there.  I figured if I go at the hole -- I mean if it just comes back in the bunker or goes over it's not terrible, I can make 4 from there.  I thought it was worth of the risk of going towards the pin.  Didn't come out well at all, right into the lip and actually, really, really good chip from there to give me an easy bogey putt.
Q. That was a heck of bogey, really was.  Talk about tomorrow.  Coming from behind, maybe that's a better position for you.  I don't know.  But talk about the opportunity you have tomorrow.
OLLIE SCHNIEDERJANS: Another good opportunity.  I've had about three, four this year where I've played on Sunday, having a chance with 9 holes left.
Hopefully put myself in that position again tomorrow and the goal will be just to have another good round.  It's 18 holes again.  I'll be feeling it out there and huge opportunity but I have some more experience than I did in my previous times and just keep building on those and I've got like a little check point list I have for myself and just try to follow that as well as I can and so see how it goes.
I have good experience trying to win and -- I have a lot of good experience playing in the final round with a chance to win a tournament so it's a different feeling out here Sundays but I've had a good three, four times this year where I've had chance to win on Sunday and felt those feelings.
So I know what it takes.  I'll do the best I can to stay in it all the way to the end and give myself a chance to win.
Q. Inspired by JT and Spieth and all those guys?
OLLIE SCHNIEDERJANS: Those guys are doing unbelievable things.  I want to have my own path and timing.  I'm giving it all I got, working really hard on every aspect of my game and I think that I can put myself in their position.  I'm capable of doing that and it's inspiring to see those guys do what they've done.
Q. Looking ahead to tomorrow, an Army of guys right there with a chance to win.  What is it going to take tomorrow?
OLLIE SCHNIEDERJANS: You never know.  I think you got to put up a pretty good round again tomorrow, maybe 5, 6-under for me tomorrow will give me -- get at least 20.
I think that will be a really good chance.  But you don't know what everyone is going to do.  Just give it best day I can.  We'll see.
Q. How comfortable are you going to Sunday with the putter?
OLLIE SCHNIEDERJANS: Probably the best putting since Sea Island in the fall.  That's been the difference.  Keep the rounds going and capitalize when I hit good shots, even make a few of length.  I just haven't been doing that.  So it's been fun, really.  Just been a lot of fun to make some putts and keep the rounds going and score well.
Q. (Inaudible)?
OLLIE SCHNIEDERJANS: I just saw the putter on the putting greens a couple weeks ago.  I was looking to change putters.  I grabbed a couple of them.  One looks super good and felt really nice off the face and just a clean, simple putter.  I wanted to start fresh.  It had the look and feel and has a great weight to it as well and kind of got it spec'd out with me and went with it.  It's been great.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT