RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 27, 2017
Ollie Schniederjans
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Obviously a tremendous start to the tournament here.  What was kind of going well for you out there?  7-under par, tied for the lead after day one, pretty good.
OLLIE SCHNIEDERJANS: Yeah, I took advantage of the par 5s.  Chipped in for eagle to kind of get my round going on 13.  Eagled 18, too.  I took advantage of the par 5s and just played real consistently well off the tee.  I was in good positions all day.  Just a solid round.
Q. An awesome result when you made your pro debut here a couple years ago.  Is there good vibes coming back to a place like this?
OLLIE SCHNIEDERJANS: Yeah, as a rookie to come back to a course you've seen before, it's so nice.  Most of the time, Monday through Wednesday, you're kind of cramming in to see the course, and having four rounds of tournament experience here already before coming is just super helpful.  And a lot of good vibes from this place, being my pro debut two years ago.  Played pretty good.
Q. Did you feel like you had to go out and shoot a really low number today, considering the course conditions?
OLLIE SCHNIEDERJANS: Yeah, it's perfect conditions.  Couldn't get better.  The greens got a little bit bumpy at the end of the day with the poa, so I was trying to just be patient with that.  I feel like I'm putting really good, but the greens were pretty beat up at the end of the day.  But other than that, it was go for it, pretty much every hole.
Q. Would you say that this round is owed to the tips you got from James Duffy in the Pro-Am?
OLLIE SCHNIEDERJANS: Absolutely (laughter).  Great Pro-Am group.  We had a lot of fun.
Q. What did you do to maintain focus during the suspension of play?
OLLIE SCHNIEDERJANS: I just got a little bit of food and hung out.  Sat in the locker room with my teammate, my ex-teammate, Richie.  We just hung out.  We got 40 minutes to regroup and get ready to go, so it was easy.
Q. Do you find the suspensions of play distracting, or you're used to it?
OLLIE SCHNIEDERJANS: Just comes with the territory.  You're going to get one every now and again.  Definitely changes the vibe for the day.  3-putted the first hole.  I had like a 70-footer on 16.  I think I probably wouldn't have 3-putted that without the delay.  But just mentally, it's tough to go 2-putt a 70-footer after a delay over a giant hill.  I was kind of forgiving on that, and got it back with an eagle on 18.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT