U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 18, 2016
David Boote
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DAVID BOOTE: There's a lot of holes out there, like 14 if you make par there, you're probably going to win it.  Same with 17, as well, so I managed to hit a couple of good shots when I needed to again, so it's nice.
Q. What was the state of your game coming into this championship?  Obviously you're playing well now, you had to survive a 23 for eight playoff just to get into the championship.  What was the state of your game coming in?
DAVID BOOTE: Yeah, I had been playing well all summer really.  Had a lot of team competitions and came over here for a few tournaments the last sort of month or three weeks or so.  I've been hitting the ball great, just didn't really hole any putts on the first two rounds of stroke play.  Really close, I was rolling the ball well but just didn't quite hole anything.  Now they're dropping in a little bit and just playing solid really, so hopefully it continues.
Q. With the softer conditions, what are some holes out here you can really play aggressively in match play that make a difference?
DAVID BOOTE: Depending on pin positions, I think 1 was a good pin position today.  You could be really aggressive.  The par-5s you can also attack.  And then coming in, probably like 15 you can give it a good -- the tee was up today so it was only a wedge in, so you could knock it in close there.  But yeah, I mean, the level of these matches, you've just got to really take advantage when you do get a chance.  You've got to make birdies, otherwise you're probably going to lose the hole.
Q. You've played a lot of holes now, just a single-round day tomorrow in the quarterfinals, and it's in the afternoon, so what do you intend to do with the time that you have tomorrow morning?
DAVID BOOTE: Sleep.  Yeah, hopefully I'll be able to sleep through pretty late.  I'm not sure what the tee times are, but yeah, just get a good bit of food tonight, and yeah, sleep it off.
Q. What's your favorite thing about playing championships over here in America versus playing at home in the UK?
DAVID BOOTE: It's just like -- the weather is much nicer.  You know that.  I know we've had a bit of rough thunderstorms this week, but at least you know the weather is going to be good all week.  Just this week has been incredible.  The way they treat you at these tournaments is just crazy, like the free food, and I've been lucky, I'm staying with a member, Kelly Sweeney, just lives literally on the 9th hole of the North.  It's class.  It's really good.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT