NBA DRAFT
June 28, 2007
Acie Law IV
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  I read that Ernie Banks is your uncle.  Did you inherit his sunny disposition and did that help you in this Draft craziness? 
 ACIE LAW IV:  We have an okay relationship.  We speak probably a couple times a year.  He's been a guy that I've looked up to and I've seen things that he's done with his career and felt like I could be successful as he was.  He's a great guy and I'm glad to see he's a part of my family. 

 Q.  In college, you were known as a guy who took over games and brought the team to a different level; are you going to interject that in your rookie year to Atlanta? 
 ACIE LAW IV:  I've just got to do whatever it takes for us to win.  Just be aggressive and make plays for the guys that, what I'm going to do, I just want the clock to run out and know that our team is ahead and that we've got the W, that's all that matters. 

 Q.  When did you know Atlanta was going to take you?  There was a lot of speculation after a work-out that you were shutting it down and that they were making a guarantee.  When did you know? 
 ACIE LAW IV:  I think I knew about pick No. 9.  (Laughter). 
 No, last night, I couldn't sleep.  I didn't go to sleep until about 4:00 AM, and this morning, all throughout the day, I've been nervous.  Guys I've been here with have been telling me, you're going to be okay, but it's a nerve-wracking experience and your life is about to change.  When I found out at pick No. 9 or 10 that they were going to take me, it was a big relief and I was excited I was going to accomplish something that I wanted to accomplish since I was a kid and that's play in the NBA. 

 Q.  With all of the talk about this Draft being about freshmen, with you being the first senior, what statement does that make? 
 ACIE LAW IV:  Freshmen are very, very talented.  I think in the Draft, it's all about position and what a team needs, and you see some great, great players in this draft. 
 I'm happy with the team that I went to and just happy to get to Atlanta and help turn that franchise around. 

 Q.  Given that you stayed four years, does that also send a message to go as high as you did and complete four years of school? 
 ACIE LAW IV:  I always said that different guys, different players are presented with different situations.  I mean some, guys are fortunate enough to be ready to come out after the first of the season and I didn't feel like I was ready after my sophomore or junior season and I wanted to develop my game while I was in college and that's why I decided to stay. 
 That's the decision I made and I'm glad, it was a good decision. 

 Q.  I saw that you majored in agricultural leadership.  Since we are here in the big city, that's foreign to us. 
 ACIE LAW IV:  It's a wide open field.  You pretty much can get into anything you want to with that major. 

 Q.  Do you deal with earth science and things along that line? 
 ACIE LAW IV:  Yeah. 

 Q.  I was wondering what you're going to do after signing your first contract; how are you going to spoil yourself a little bit? 
 ACIE LAW IV:  I'm going to buy myself a house, give myself somewhere to stay.  I've already purchased my mom a car.  I bought her a Lexus. 
 So just going to try to get me a house and get me a nice, comfortable place to stay in Atlanta and just looking forward to turning that franchise around. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT