NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 14, 2014
Miles Plumlee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about playing against your brother.   
MILES PLUMLEE:   That's how we got to where we're at and now we're at the highest point of our careers.   And to get to play in something like this, it will be real fun.  
   
 Q.   Is it the first time like this, playing each other?  
MILES PLUMLEE:   Well, earlier this year, when the Nets came to Phoenix, we played against each other a little bit.   But I think we'll get more time tonight.   
   
 Q.   Talk about having Leandro Barbosa on your team.   How is your relationship with him?  
MILES PLUMLEE:   Everybody loves having him on the team.   I've heard so many stories about him from other teammates and former teammates and to finally get to know him, he's a great teammate, really, really funny guy.   
   
 Q.   How did you feel when you got traded so early in your career?  
MILES PLUMLEE:   It was a little confusing at first, but after I talked with Larry Bird and the staff on the Suns and the Pacers, my agent, it was a really good thing and I think the deal worked well for everybody.   And it's been a great opportunity.  
   
 Q.   Was it like a motivating added fuel kind of thing that you got traded so early in your career, or did you just say, hey, this is an opportunity for me to play.   
MILES PLUMLEE:   Yeah, it's an opportunity.   There's no hard feelings for the Pacers.   I know they loved me and I loved playing there.   
I have plenty of motivation.   Any time you don't get to play, you get motivated to get better and you want to accomplish stuff in this league.   So it was just a good opportunity is how I look at it.  
   
 Q.   How have you made such a leap in your game?   What have been some of the keys where you've gone from playing in like 18 games or whatever to now you're a guy on a playoff team.   
MILES PLUMLEE:   Yeah, I don't know, I put a lot of work in last year.   It's kind of hard to tell what I would have done last year if I would have been given more playing time.   It just wasn't there.   We had such a good rotation and we were in the conference finals.   
But I was getting better last year and this summer I continued to.   And I think it's a situation where we got a lot of young guys and you just go out there and play through your mistakes, that gives you a lot of confidence.   
And we just play hard every day and try to get better.   
   
 Q.   Speaking of getting better, it's been a great season for the Suns.   When did you guys look around and say, hey, we got something here?  
MILES PLUMLEE:   I think we knew we did from the beginning of training camp, because we had good chemistry and we thought we had a lot of talent.   And our guys have gotten a lot better since last year.   And the first couple games in, we were doing well and we just started realizing it from there on out.  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT