WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 22, 2009
Chris Riley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   CHRIS RILEY: Long day for ten holes. I three-putted my 10th hole, but I'm still right there but I see it got pretty bunched up. It's going to be fun for tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Nice way to star the afternoon.  
 CHRIS RILEY: I was a little nervous on the 1st hole. I wanted to start off hitting some fairways and greens. I didn't see it go in. Really like three, four inches by the hole and disappeared. I thought my ball mark was actually the ball. It was pretty cool.  
  
  Q. Tomorrow the course is going to be soft again. Just got to go right at it.  
 CHRIS RILEY: These are tough weeks. Seems like we've been doing this all year but, you know, going to bed at 10 and waking up at 5:00 to play golf, it's pretty -- we're athletes. So I guess we can do it.  
  
  Q. What do you think tomorrow, I mean is there a number?  
 CHRIS RILEY: Yeah, absolutely. I still think 20-under is going to win. I'm at 13 and I think -- I don't know what Sergio is at 13 and there's a bunch of 12s. The greens are soft. Someone is going to shoot another 6 or 7. Anywhere from 17, 18 to 20.  
  
  Q. Do you think it was a good decision to go out again or what's your thought?  
 CHRIS RILEY: Oh, yeah, get as much golf in as possible. They did a great job. The maintenance crew here is doing great. It's unbelievable.  
  
  Q. You were talking about feel, I don't know if the way you're feeling being in the hunt again.  
 CHRIS RILEY: I mean, yeah, kind of. It's kind of hard. I haven't been there for probably since '04 so it's fun. It's the only way you got to look at it unless you want to run and hide under a rock.   
 It's fun. It's what we play for. Definitely tests your ability of what you've been working on, stuff like that. Guys like Sergio been there so many times it's probably just like playing golf to them. To guys like me, it's different.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT