U.S. BANK CHAMPIONSHIP IN MILWAUKEE
July 17, 2009
Chris Riley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOEL SCHUCHMANN: Chris Riley, thanks for joining us, rounds of 67-66 and excellent position heading into the weekend. A lot of players still to finish their second round but at 7-under you have to like your position, and you played well last year here. Maybe a few opening comments?   
 CHRIS RILEY: Yeah, I've got good vibes here in Milwaukee. I finished tied for third here last year and the golf course sets up well for me and I seem to putt the greens well. There's a long ways to go but I'm happy with the first two rounds.   
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN: Some overall comments on your round today.   
 CHRIS RILEY: I putted really well. I made a couple good par saves on the par 3s in front. On 5 I got it up-and-down out of the bunker and on 9 I made like a 20-footer for par. Those were what really kept my round going and coming in I birdied 15, 17 and 18. So that was pretty much it.   
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN: Nice way to head into the weekend with birdies.  
 CHRIS RILEY: I'm happy with it.   
  
  Q. Anything more specific on what you like about this course?   
 CHRIS RILEY: I don't know, it seems to set up well for me. I'm not a really long hitter and this golf course is kind of a short and tight golf course, so my wedge game is my strong point of my golf game, and there's a lot of wedges into these holes.   
 I know the greens are firmer here this year than they were last year. What won here last year, 15 or 16? I don't remember. But I think depending on the weather, the rain softens up the golf course the score also get lower. But if it stayed hot and dry, the scores would have -- because I mean, the greens are very hard this career.  
    
  Q. Kevin Na said he would like more courses like this on TOUR, and that's one of the reasons why he's here. Is that the feeling for some of the guys that cannot necessarily --  
 CHRIS RILEY: No, absolutely. But unfortunately I don't think our TOUR is going that way. The longer golf courses are what people want to see. There are probably four or five, a handful of golf courses out here, the Hilton Heads, here, I'm trying to think of a couple other ones. Memphis now is getting shorter because it's kind of getting older.   
 But there's probably only a handful of courses that are playing shorter for the shorter guys. Guys like me that don't hit it as far, we have to putt well. Otherwise I think it's probably a shot or two advantage per round hitting it over 300 yards.   
 I mean, absolutely Kevin Na would love to play a course like this every year and I would, too, every week, but it's just not going to happen.   
  
  Q. You were out there when the rain came through and everything. I don't know why you were.   
 CHRIS RILEY: I was about on No. 13 or 14. And I think I made a par, but it was kind of funny, Tim Petrovic in our group forgot an umbrella. We were watching him getting rained on and it was pretty funny. But it didn't last very long.   
  
  Q. Have the weather conditions been greatly different from yesterday afternoon?   
 CHRIS RILEY: Yeah, it was really windy yesterday. I had never seen this golf course that windy but today the wind was not up that much, but you know, I'm wearing a sweater in July, what is it, July 18 or 19, it's pretty unexpected.   
 So I only had one sweater that I travel with and I'm on the road for five weeks now, so I'm glad I packed that. You don't expect it in the summertime, but no, I mean, the weather is totally different today. I don't know if the wind is supposed to blow this afternoon but it did yesterday afternoon.   
  
  Q. How important is it, you shot a strong round yesterday in the afternoon and then to come back out immediately on the course and get back into your groove?  
 CHRIS RILEY: It's hard when you wake up in the morning because you have a 7:30 tee time because you have to get up two hours before the tee time and that's probably the norm. Some guys are probably getting up three hours before, so you're getting up at 4:30, 5:00, so it's hard to get up and get loose and get ready. But this is what we do for a living and we have been doing it for a long time. But it is definitely hard to go out late and then come back real early.   
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT