BUICK INVITATIONAL
February 15, 2004
Chris Riley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOE CHEMYCZ:  3 under par 69.  Good week for you in your hometown.

CHRIS RILEY:   I actually scrambled well the first couple of days and I found my swing and actually started ball striking.  The way I was putting, I knew that I would    I didn't know 10 under was going to have a chance at the end of the day.  Actually, I was fortunate enough to be where I finished.   However, to lose in a playoff like that, what an atmosphere, people yelling, coming down the fairway, it was great being a part of it.  I would have bet my life on the putt.  I told my caddie I'm going to make this putt.  I felt so good over it.  I wanted to take John to another hole.  It's unbelievable because I just told myself I've practiced my whole life just staying in the putt and I didn't even see what it did until the end.  I saw it lip back out.  When it came off the putter I thought it was dead center.  Take my hat off to Johnny, he's been through a lot.  To see him win is great.


Q.  (Inaudible)?

CHRIS RILEY:  I didn't see it horseshoe until it came out the right side.  In regulation, I saw Duffy had the same putt and he kind of pulled his a little bit.  I knew it wasn't going to go hard right so I had to keep it in the hole.  I'm proud of myself.  I think I made like eight birdies today or something.  I made a lot of birdies.  And to make that putt on 18 in regulation, when there was one guy at 10, and I knew I had to make it, what a great feeling. 

I also got some good breaks.  I snaphooked it on 17.  I hit a tree and it kicked into the right rough.  What a great week to come home and hear people yell for you, right here in San Diego.  Who knows what can happen next year.


Q.  (Inaudible)?

CHRIS RILEY:   It would definitely be more special to win here at Torrey Pines.  This is one of my big tournaments of the year.  I put this up there with the Masters.  It's a tough week.  People coming at you from all angles.  Mr. Wilson, the tournament director, is so nice to give me so many tickets.  I got a bunch of tickets this week in my locker.  And for him to give me all of those is great. 

I started thinking about that, walking down 18 in the playoff and in regulation to win here at Torrey Pines, and I started getting teary eyed.  It just wasn't meant to be. 

I gave it my best stroke.  I'm just so proud of myself for hanging in there and staying in my routine.  I did all that I could, it just wasn't meant to be today.  I really thought I was going to make that putt on 18.  And to see it horseshoe like that     you know, I would have liked to take John Daly another hole. 

What a story, though, to see him just pull out that 3 wood, I guess he hit from the middle of the fairway on 18.  And people are yelling right when he was trying to hit it.  It was something I'll always remember.  I have a feeling I'll be in that position again sometime.


Q.  What did John say to you?

CHRIS RILEY:   I've known John    we have the same manager, sports manager, so we've talked a little bit over the years, I've been paired with him a couple of times over the years.  He's just a really good guy.  He just said, Tough luck.  When I won my first tournament, the Reno/Tahoe Open, Jonathan Kaye hit a putt on the first playoff hole that I still cannot believe it didn't go in.  It was breaking right in the hole, and then had a doughnut effect. 

You have just got to get there a couple of times.  This is definitely a step forward for me, to battle all day and to not hit the ball the way I'd like to, but to just hang in there and grind and keep a good attitude.  I would make a bogey out there and it wouldn't even bother me.  I was going to birdie the next hole.  It's just a great week.


Q.  We all know you never know until it's done.  You guys are looking at the 6 footers and he's over there in the upslope of the bunker.  I guess your thoughts about that banker shot, he hit from 25, 30 yards?

CHRIS RILEY:   I have a feeling    what touch he has for a guy who hits the ball a long ways.  That's why he's won his majors.  He has great hands.  As soon as he hit it out of there, it was coming out pretty hard and I saw it check, and I thought this has a shot.  And the crowd was getting louder and louder as the ball went towards the hole.  It really didn't phase me.  I was going to stick to my routine.  And as loud as they yelled, two practice strokes, keep that head still and stroke it.  And when I stroked it, I would have bet a lot of money that it was going to go in, but it just wasn't meant to be.


Q.  (Inaudible)?

CHRIS RILEY:   I would say about six feet.


Q.  What were you thinking when he pulled the 3 wood out of the bag?

CHRIS RILEY:   I thought he was either going to make eagle or he would be out of the hole.  Hats off to Luke Donald, too.  I played the first three rounds with him.  We were neck in neck all week.  He hit the ball a little bit better than me, but I made a few more putts.  We're pretty good players ourselves and we weren't intimidated    I mean, I wasn't intimidated at all.  It was a just a great feeling to be out there playing with him.


Q.  (Inaudible)?

CHRIS RILEY:   I've got a good friend, Craig, in Las Vegas, we always joke, if we get in a playoff I would rather lose to him.  But John Daly, what a great story for golf.  I'm just happy for him.  He's a phenomenal player and to win is something.


Q.  (Inaudible)?

CHRIS RILEY:   To tell you the truth, I didn't really    me and Todd were talking yesterday that this course is a monster, if you can post a score    you know, I wasn't thinking 10 was going to playoff, when there was a 13, a 12 and an 11 to start the day. I new Stewart Cink was up there at 12, and he's played in U.S. Opens.  He is a great player.  I told myself not to look at score boards, I peeked and saw they were coming back to us.  Maybe that's not a good thing.  I have to work on that, not look at score boards, because it's just added pressure.  I have enough pressure out there as it is, just working on my game.  10 under, I didn't think I was going to be in a playoff today.  If you had told me at the beginning.  I made a lot of birdies, but also made a lot of bogeys.  It was fun.  It was a lot of fun.


Q.  (Inaudible)?

CHRIS RILEY:   That was one of the best putts I hit in my life, on 16.


Q.  (Inaudible)?

CHRIS RILEY:   Absolutely, those putts    but I didn't know the situation.  I don't even know, was I 10? Yeah, I was 10 going into 15.  I made a great par there, up and down. 

16, I made one of the best putts I've ever hit.  It broke about two feet, and it would have gone through the size of a ball, I hit it so good. 

On 17, I still thought I was one back and I hit a quick hook and got a great putt there.  And then my putt there, I thought I made it.

To make birdie on 18 to get it back to 10, I was very happy.


Q.  Standing over that putt after Daly putted out, were you nervous at all?

CHRIS RILEY:   Surprisingly, no.  I was more nervous waiting for the playoff to start.  My stomach was hurting a little bit.  Athletes     I love having to make a shot.  Sometimes I don't do it, but I love to know that I have to make this putt.  That's what I practice.  I can't tell you how much I thought I was going to make it.  I told myself this is what I'm here for, I've worked all my life on my putting to make this putt in a pressure situation.  All I can do is hit a good putt.  Obviously I made a good putt, but not good enough.  It was something.


Q.  When you were walking back to 18, were you thinking this is my home course?

CHRIS RILEY: No, I was thinking more like you're going to have to make birdie.  Par 5, three guys, you know someone is going to make a birdie.  Playoffs in the past, birdie is going to win.  I really felt there was nothing to lose, everything to gain, especially, I guess, a Buick, if you can win a Buick, I would love to get a Buick Rainier.

I felt great.  I did everything I could, it just didn't turn out.



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT