WGC NEC INVITATIONAL
August 23, 2003
Chris Riley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.
All right, so you're cruising along in this tournament, you haven't had a bogey in two rounds and all of a sudden you run into a round like today.  What's it like to battle?
CHRIS RILEY:  Geez, I was in the last group and the wind was pretty tough, and just to shoot even par, I would have taken that at the beginning of the day.  I made a lot of good putts for pars and a couple for birdie.  I hit one great shot on No. 8.  I was in the right trees and hit it in there a foot.  I'm just scoring well.  It's nothing different than I've been doing all day, but fortunately I'm catching some good breaks.

Q.  You were in a playoff last year this time with Jonathan Kaye.  Now the two of you are atop the leaderboard.  Is there something special about this place for you two?
CHRIS RILEY:  There must be something special for us.  Last year at Reno I fortunately beat him in a playoff, but we're both great players, and whenever I see his name on top of the leaderboard I'm not surprised.

Q.  You said a few times I'm looking forward to playing with Tiger tomorrow. 
CHRIS RILEY:  That will be really good Sunday, second to last group playing with Tiger.  I'm looking forward to it with all the people and everything.

Q.  Let's go through your birdies and bogeys real quick.  You had birdie on 1?
CHRIS RILEY:  Driver, L-wedge to about 12 feet, made it. 
I hit driver, I pulled it left into the trees on 2, hooked it out, and I had like 110 to go and a tree was in my way, came up short, chipped it up about ten feet, two-putted.
Three-putted 7 from about 45 feet.
8, hit in the right tree off the tee and then I hit one of my best shots all day, 8-iron.
10, I drove it down the middle, hit an L-wedge and it sucked back off the green.  That was a tough pin.
And then on 11, I hit a 3-wood, L-wedge to about 12 feet.
13, I hit it in the left rough off the tee.  That's a tough driving hole.  I laid it out, chipped it to about ten feet and missed it. 

Q.  Do you know what club you hit into the green?
CHRIS RILEY:  I didn't get it there. 
17, I hit a driver, L-wedge to about 12 feet, made it.




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT