JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 27, 2002
Chris Riley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







TODD BUDNICK:  Chris Riley 66 today brings him to 14-under, 199 for the tournament.  Best first 54 holes of the season.  Let's go ahead through the card first.  Birdie on No. 1.
CHRIS RILEY: I hit driver, 9-iron in there about seven feet.  Made it for birdie. 
TODD BUDNICK:  Bogey on 4.
CHRIS RILEY: It was playing tough back in the wind when I made that turn.  Driver, 5-iron, chipped it to about five feet.  Missed the putt.
7, I hit a 5-iron in there about twelve feet, made it for birdie.
8, down the middle wedge to about twelve feet.  Made it for birdie.
10, I hit a driver, lay up, 4-iron, wedge in there about ten feet.
11, 3-wood left, 7-iron about three feet.
14, driver, L-wedge to about 15 feet, made it.
Bogeyed 15, bad drive right and then chipped it to about ten feet, missed it.
16, 8-iron in there about twelve feet.  Made it. 
TODD BUDNICK:  Best 54 holes of the season.  Got to be happy where you are and heading into tomorrow.
CHRIS RILEY: Yeah, I have been progressing all year.  It's getting better.  I have been having a pretty solid season and it's kind of amazing really that I am in this position really because I came back from the British Open last week and it was incredible.  It was -- we flew out Tuesday.  My planes were delayed.  I showed up in Chicago at 10 o'clock on Tuesday night, I called to get my pro-am tee time, and I am first off at 6:45.  I didn't sleep much then.  But I just played that pro-am and then pretty much rested and I have good feelings.  I finished fourth here one year.  It is a nice course. 
TODD BUDNICK:  Maybe that's what you needed a little, no thoughts coming in...
CHRIS RILEY:  Yeah, I am looking forward to tomorrow.

Q.   What a contrast in Saturdays from last week?
CHRIS RILEY: Yeah, I only played nine holes in that British Open Saturday.  I was playing pretty good Saturday; then I bogeyed my last 4 to shoot 5-over for the day.  That was tough.  I talked to Tiger.  He told me he ripped a driver off 3 and he said he went 205 something, then on another hole he hit a 5-iron that went 135 yards.  I didn't feel that kind of -- I didn't get  -- I think the holes I played were downwind, when that wind was blowing that hard, but it was pretty incredible. 

Q.   Why did you go through the trouble to get here to play this tournament?
CHRIS RILEY: Yeah, it is a good question.  Just because -- well, I mean I love the golf course.  This is how my schedule was made out.  I wasn't supposed to play in the British Open but I finished fifth at the Western Open and got me in, so, I could see how people, you know, it's a long trip over there and I could see how they just take this week off.  It's unfortunate that you know, the John Deere is this date, but I just decided just to play out my schedule, so this is why I am here. 

Q.   Kind of glad you are here at this point?
CHRIS RILEY: Oh, yeah, for sure.  Two or three back going into Sunday, that's pretty good.  I am just going to concentrate and try to set a number for myself and not look at any leaderboards and just play my own game and see what happens. 

Q.   You said you love this tournament.  Why?
CHRIS RILEY:  Well, I mean, the golf course really  -- I mean, I think they did a good job with this golf course.  Unfortunately some of the players don't get to come see this golf course, and I don't know if anybody has been able to.  It is really a fun course to play, and it's the kind of front nine that is really hilly, but it's all right.  It's just a good golf course. 

Q.   The first two days they were just tearing us up and now JP is 2-under instead of being -- he was 10-under yesterday.  How do you explain how this golf course goes from playing like that  --
CHRIS RILEY: We were lift cleaning and place today.  I don't know  -- I can't explain that.  You shoot a course record 61 and then two under the next day.  I think that's pretty good (laughs) I mean, really, so that's just golf, and I don't know.  Usually there's always  -- whether someone shoots 11 or 12-under, the winning score usually is anywhere from 16 to 19-under.  So you really can't pay any attention to those one-round scores. 

Q.   Did you come in here thinking you were going to have to go (inaudible) lower today?
CHRIS RILEY: I had a good time.  I played with Peter Jacobsen and Spike McRoy.  I really wasn't thinking about it.  I was just playing golf and just trying the best I can.  I hit a couple of awkward shots.  I don't know, had a week where I have put a couple of swings on it, and I can't believe where the ball is going when I look up because it feels like the swings are good.  I think that has something to do with the British Open because before I went over there at Western I was hitting it good; then I hit it good over there.  I am just tired now.  I will get pumped up for tomorrow. 

Q.   You say your approach is don't look at leaderboards pick a number  -- given what has gone on here this week how do you know what kind of number to pick?
CHRIS RILEY: Usually if you are 17, 18, 19-under you are going to be right there in the tournament, but you know what, last year my best finish was second at The INTERNATIONAL, and I really didn't look at any leaderboards, and I am the type of player that I mean I really  ---why look at a leaderboard.  Some guys love to look at them see what they are doing.  All I know is I can take care of my business and make as many birdies as I can, so  -- that's why I don't look at a leaderboard.

Q.   How are you feeling physically now adapting back to state-side time?
CHRIS RILEY: I am pretty much adapted now.  First couple of -- I think it's a 7-hour difference, 6 hours, but I am I am pretty much all set and ready to go.  I know I will be ready for tomorrow. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT