UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN MEDIA CONFERENCE
December 14, 2005
Lloyd Carr
Mike Hart
Chad Henne
Jake Long
Pat Massey
Garrett Rivas
Carl Tabb
Pierre Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 COACH LLOYD CARR  
   Q.  Do you have the schedule worked out between now and the Bowl?  
 COACH LLOYD CARR:  No.  We're going to figure that out once we go.  (Laughter). 
 No, we practiced last Friday and last Sunday, Tuesday.  We'll practice Thursday, Saturday, and then Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday next week and take off Thursday evening, the 22nd. 
 Q.  Is there a difference preparing for this game? 
 COACH LLOYD CARR:  It's not a lot different that on the New Years Day Bowl for the last nine years or so.  We would have left, gone down early to practice.  So we've had to work against and around our exam schedules, which I think is more difficult for the players. 
 But the schedule itself, we just move it back and we'll try to get the same number of practices that we would a normal Bowl game. 
 Q.  No surgery for Jake, how surprised were you by that? 
 COACH LLOYD CARR:  I think it's a great thing for Jake because he's been through a very difficult season.  And the opportunity to play in this game, certainly, is important for our team.  I think it was great news.  Obviously for Jake Long, it was great news. 
 Q.  How is -- inaudible? 
 COACH LLOYD CARR:  He's practicing.  He's not 100%.  Of course Henige won't play.  And Mike Kolodziej continues to have bad luck, he's having some surgery today on his hand and he'll miss the game.  But we're healthier we were when the season ended, and yet we have a number of guys that we'll just hope that they will continue to improve as we move closer to the game. 
 Q.  Inaudible? 
 COACH LLOYD CARR:  That's a good answer.  Are you talking about Mike Hart?  He's one of those guys that's not where we'd like him to be.  He's making progress.  It's a miserable injury from the standpoint those high ankle sprains are slow to heal. 
 Q.  Is Massquoi -- same category of getting better? 
 COACH LLOYD CARR:  Everybody is getting better.  Unless you're practicing, you try to stay healthy.  Massaquoi has not practiced yet, probably will not practice until we get to the game site, we'll just have to see. 
 Q.  Talk about the difference in going to the Alamo Bowl when you've been to so many BCS Bowls and the effect that might have? 
 COACH LLOYD CARR:  I think for our football team it's an opportunity to play against an outstanding program like Nebraska. 
 I think in watching Nebraska, I've been very impressed from where they were at the beginning of the season and where they were in the middle and where they are today.  I think they are a program that is on the rise.  I think they have had an opportunity from an offensive standpoint to transition and it is a very difficult transition when you go from what they have done for so long to what Bill Callahan is doing now. 
 It's different because we'll be coming home earlier.  But from the standpoint of being able to play a game, it doesn't matter if you're going to play in the parking lot, it doesn't matter where you're going to play, it doesn't matter who is there.  It's an opportunity to play I think Derek Fox and the people at the Alamo Bowl do a tremendous job.  I think in all of the places we've been, I don't think we've been treated any better anywhere. 
 So for me it comes back, and I think for our team comes back, it's one last opportunity to compete, and against an outstanding program, so we're excited to do that. 
 Q.  Are you at all perplexed why at the Outback Bowl -- 
 COACH LLOYD CARR:  Perplexed. 
 Q.  Are you at all disappointed -- no, perplexed, that the Outback Bowl did take Iowa, similar record; you beat them? 
 COACH LLOYD CARR:  I think where I am is that, you know, the BCS has been relatively successful in pitting the top two teams against each other.  And certainly this year, we have an opportunity to play a Championship Game, and I think it's going to be one of the great games that we've had in college football in a long time. 
 But I think the other side of that is that when you look at the other Bowls, you have the commissioners, the Bowl people, the TV people, doing the scheduling.  And I think it's only fair to the players that what happens on the field should dictate where you play.  And for that reason, I never thought I would say, this I think we should go to a playoff, I think we should play the top 16 teams and do it on the field, because I think that's only fair to the guys that play the game. 
 Q.  The players have talked about using this game as a spring board to next year, is that something you're stressing? 
 COACH LLOYD CARR:  I think the most important thing is this team and this season.  Certainly for those guys that were red-shirted this year or did not have an opportunity to play, it's an opportunity for them to get extra practice.  And certainly for the guys that are coming back, winning a Bowl game is always something that creates some momentum if you can win it.  Certainly it's a lot more fun to come home after a win than it is when you're not successful. 
 Q.  If there was a playoff, what reservations do you have to get past to get to that point? 
 COACH LLOYD CARR:  I think you'd have to incorporate the Bowls.  I have the same reservations I had before.  I just don't think that the commissioners and the Bowl people and the TV people should be making decisions about who plays where. 
 I think that should be -- college football, the Bowl games, have always been a reward for what you do in the season.  So I think in fairness to the players, if you're going to send them somewhere, because the truth is, that when you choose teams based on their ability to sell more tickets or fill more hotel rooms, I think that's unacceptable. 
 Q.  Is this the last straw, this Bowl, and Oregon doing more lobbying and trying their best to get into the Fiesta Bowl? 
 COACH LLOYD CARR:  I just think when you look at the entire Bowl system, we're going to add Bowls next year.  Why?  Because, you know, the financial considerations. 
 I just think that we should settle it on the field.  That's my reasoning for changing. 
 Q.  The Rose Bowl, you were always part of the Rose Bowl, it's no longer a special Bowl, it's part of the mix, is that part of it? 
 COACH LLOYD CARR:  Yeah, I think we've gone down a road in college football; college athletics I think that has changed dramatically in the last ten years. 
 I think that a lot of the tradition has been impacted.  And so I'm just joining with a lot of coaches in the past who are calling for a playoff because I think ultimately if you're going to have a National Championship game, there's going to be years as there was a year ago, where Auburn got left out, and I think you're going to continue to have those scenarios. 
 So let's do it on the field. 
 Q.  When would you like to see it go to a playoff system? 
 COACH LLOYD CARR:  In my lifetime?  Oh, it could be any time. 
 Q.  You realize a Bowl is unrealistic; you're the one that lays out the travel plans, is it upsetting because it's the first time Michigan has ever been passed up? 
 COACH LLOYD CARR:  You know, I just -- I think that we need to do it on the field.  We've added a 12th game.  Why?  Because of money.  So if it's about money, then let's not forget the guys that play the game. 
 Q.  Do you think there could be a playoff for next year? 
 COACH LLOYD CARR:  Well, right now the Commissioners have control of college football.  The NCAA has no influence.  I think that's something that the NCAA needs to do. 
 Q.  Your concern this year was always the academics -- will the press and the universities -- 
 COACH LLOYD CARR:  Well, they didn't seem to have too much concern about academics when they added the 12th game.  So we've just gone down a road where I think eventually we're going to have a playoff system.  How soon that's going to be, I don't know.  But I think it's inevitable.  Whether it will be in my lifetime or not, remains to be seen. 
 Q.  Inaudible? 
 COACH LLOYD CARR:  Well, I don't think the coaches have a lot of influence because the coaches were opposed to the 12th game.  I think the commissioners, and I think the athletic directors who need added revenue to support the athletic programs, I think that's what's driving us this thing. 
 Q.  What did you think of the Bowl voting being open? 
 COACH LLOYD CARR:  I think, you know, from a coach's standpoint, I was opposed to it, because I think within the coaching fraternity, when you reveal your vote, it creates hard feelings.  It's impossible not to, because when you are voting on the Top 25, it's very subjective.  I think it's very difficult.  And I'm sure there will be some hard feelings across the country, and yet I think grand at that point, the American coast [|] football association, felt it was extremely important for the coaches to remain a viable voice in the Championship Game, and to do that, I think you know, we felt that we had to release our votes. 
 So, you know, there's risk and reward.  Perplexing.  Perplexing. 
 Q.  What's the consideration -- inaudible? 
 COACH LLOYD CARR:  Well, I think, first of all, it's difficult in the immediate future, because, you know, it's getting I think more difficult to attract teams without agreeing to return of visits somewhere that may not be --  for example, in our case, we may get somebody to come here that would come, but we would have to return a trip to them and we may be playing in a 50,000-seat stadium, so there's revenue concerns there. 
 It's not an easy situation.  There are a number of schools who are dropping down a division to play the 12th game.  I mean, there's a lot of them.  I think when you look at, for example, Michigan/Oklahoma, people have pointed out we played the two most difficult schedules in the country.  The more difficult schedule you play, the more difficult it is to get to the BCS Championship Game. 
 So scheduling, going back to -- I always said this, Bear Bryant, when you look at his scheduling when he was with Alabama and won those Championship games, he always pointed to the importance of scheduling.  I don't think that's changed, at all.  I think it's an important part of getting to that game. 
 Q.  They have been a really good team this year, not playing you or Ohio State -- inaudible? 
 COACH LLOYD CARR:  Well, I think we have -- the competitiveness of our conference, and I think all of the conferences are competitive.  You know, I think the truth is, is, in our situation in the Big 10, the advantage we have is that we don't have a Big 10 Championship Game because we only have 11 teams. 
 I think if you look at Virginia Tech who had a great season, they lost a Championship Game and they are out at the BCS.  So those Championship games, I think make it more difficult. 
 So I don't -- I don't know how that is going to resolve itself.  Personally, I would love to have a 12th team so that we could either play ten conference games, but I don't know how that is going to work out. 
 Q.  Do you expect the NCAA to allow an earlier start, potentially as earlier as next year so that you can maintain the bye? 
 COACH LLOYD CARR:  No, I don't think the NCAA is going to do that this year.  They may never do it, which means that when you look at playing 12 consecutive games without a bye, I think anybody will tell you, we're going to have -- by the end of this season at Michigan this year, we'll have had 19 surgeries.  And that could, of course, increase as we go forward here.  I think that speaks to the toll that it has on the players. 
 So I think in fairness to the players, again, we need a bye week in there.  And so my guess is, at some point, we'll play after Thanksgiving.  I think that's -- and of course, the players aren't going to like that, and a lot of coaches aren't going to like it.  Because I think we have always had the best of that world in the Big 10 because we've been able to allow our players to go home for Thanksgiving. 
 Q.  And right now in terms of what they are trying to do as early as next year? 
 COACH LLOYD CARR:  We're dealing with a huge bureaucracy and it moves like most bureaucracies, very slowly.  So I have no idea where that is. 
 Q.  Could you talk about what you would like to see coming in? 
 COACH LLOYD CARR:  Well, we're working on being able to get people knocked off the line of scrimmage line of scrimmage, I think that's where it all begins.  Of course, you know, in our case, there's a lot of things in there that make that problematic because of our situations with injuries. 
 But we're working hard because I think we all understand that a running game allows you to control the game.  I look at the last two years, two years ago, Chris Perry, we had a great running game, and we were able to win a championship.  And the same thing happened a year ago when Mike Hart had such a great year. 
 But we were able to run the football that allows you to protect your defendants, it allows you to do a lot of things that help you to win.  So I think we understand the importance of being able to run the football in terms of what it does to your chances to win. 
 Q.  Inaudible? 
 COACH LLOYD CARR:  Well, we will use a lot of our time, particularly before we get to the Bowl site, to work with our younger players. 
 Q.  Anything that you can share? 
 COACH LLOYD CARR:  No.  With Leo out of the game, Ruben will play guard, yes.  Alex will figure in there at tackle. 
 But, you know, we've got a lot of -- as we practice, we're practicing with a lot of guys that we've red-shirted and we certainly do not want to use their year in this game.  So it means we're going to have to be able to shuffle people if we do have some injuries between now and the game or in the game. 
 Q.  About the playoff, I'm not really sure -- what would you say to Michigan football traditionalists if say it was down-graded to preseason and it was watered down, those rivalries in college football? 
 COACH LLOYD CARR:  Well, I don't think anything is ever going to water down the Michigan/Ohio State game.  If you play it the first game of the year, obviously that would change a lot of things.  But I think that rivalry is such that it's never going to be impacted. 
 With that said, I would always say that would be one of the reasons I was opposed to a playoff.  But I think in the public eye, because of the interest in college football, I think what has happened is that -- and I always tell the story.  We went to the Orange Bowl, played a great Alabama team, a team that was champions of the SEC. 
 And, you know, the only question we got down there was weren't we disappointed that we were not playing in the National Championship game.  As great as that experience was, the Orange Bowl and winning that game, I think it spoke to that experience; spoke to me that, you know, things have changed.  The National Championship game has become the game and the goal.  I think it's just one of the changes that we are dealing with. 
 Q.  Inaudible? 
 COACH LLOYD CARR:  Well, he had surgery two weeks ago and I don't remember anybody going through the number of major surgeries that the guy's been through.  It's a miserable experience to rehab an injury.  And when you're rehabbing your third, it's certainly no fun.  When you consider that he's going to be on crutches for another six weeks or so in this weather, and getting around as big as he is, I think it's safe to say it's not a lot of fun. 
 Q.  Jerome Jackson? 
 COACH LLOYD CARR:  Jerome is back and practicing well.  He'll play a role in this game. 
 Q.  What's the biggest step forward you want to see in the defense? 
 COACH LLOYD CARR:  When I look at our defense, I think the thing that stands out is from a standpoint that we're disappointed in is our inability at the end of the games to get people off the field, to make a play, to get a sack.  And so we're trying to do everything we can in practice to get better in that area. 
 Q.  Jake Long said that you said that this is a redemption game. 
 COACH LLOYD CARR:  Jake Long is inaccurate.  (Laughter).  I never said it's a redemption game.  And Jake Long better pay attention in the meetings. 
 What I did is a told a story about seeing -- I think he's a Congressman from the great State of Nebraska, state that Nebraska was going to win this game because they were going to prove once and for all that they were the better team in 1997.  That's what I told the team. 
 Now, I've got to check Jake's notes.  I don't know how he's doing in class, because he must be writing down things that the professor doesn't say. 
 I have not said that.  I'll deal with him when I see him.  (Laughter). 
 Q.  USC and Texas, the quarterbacks, how do you see that game coming out? 
 COACH LLOYD CARR:  I think it's going to be a great football team.  Texas I think the great advantage for them because --  well, Los Angeles can be a very distracting place for a group of guys 18 to 22 years old.  They were they have been there, they were there a year ago and I think that will be a great advantage for them from the standpoint that they have been to that site.  So their team is going to be much more comfortable than they would for a team making that trip for the first time. 
 With that said, I think USC obviously has a great advantage from the standpoint that nothing in their routine changes.  They are at home, they are not going to have any distraction. 
 I think there's two great football teams.  They are both -- I think USC is a different team than they were two years ago than even this year.  But when you look at Leinart, Bush and USC has been in a lot of big games, and so has Texas. 
 And Texas has had a remarkable season.  I think Mack Brown has done a great job with that team, keeping them focused and their wins have been impressive. 
 And USC, you know they are going to be ready to play.  So two great quarterbacks, very different, but I think in watching Vince Young, I think he's made dramatic improvements as a passer.  And so he always has the ability to make big plays when things happen, break down.  So I think it's going to be a terrific football game. 
 Q.  Inaudible.  
 COACH LLOYD CARR:  I thought we were being positive here today.  Hey, I've been a Lion fan a long time.  I've still a Lion fan and I think the world of Dick Deran (ph).  And so if the opportunity presents, we'll cheer the Lions on to a victory down there. 
 Q.  How many practices -- 
 COACH LLOYD CARR:  Three. 
 Q.  How much do you think he'll play? 
 COACH LLOYD CARR:  He's practiced every day.  And I think he will play.  I mean, you're dealing -- well, that's the deal.  What's the date today, the 14th?  Now, 27 minus 14 -- 13 days.  Well, maybe he'll get better. 
 Q.  Earlier Jake said that you guys didn't hit all your goals, and also he said this is a good spring board into next year. 
 COACH LLOYD CARR:  Well, our goals were to win each game, and so obviously we can't do that, and from that standpoint, the biggest disappointment is that we had an opportunity to win our third consecutive Big 10 championship.  And we failed to do that. 
 So any time you fail to win the championship here, it's a disappointment.  And yet, you know, we had some great times, we had some great moments.  But -- what's rest of your question? 
 Q.  Goals you did hit or didn't hit? 
 COACH LLOYD CARR:  Well, I think we competed hard in every game.  I think we -- I think that the guys that played in this football team, there were things --  I think we're a much better defensive football team this year throughout the season, throughout the course of the season. 
 I think offensively, we were very, very average running the football.  And that always comes back I think to haunt you.  And yet, I think, you know, we still found a way to compete and we were in every game.  And yet, you know, the disappointment is that we were not able to win some close games at the end. 
 Q.  Inaudible? 
 COACH LLOYD CARR:  The truth is that this game is important to both teams, both programs.  And regardless of the circumstances, you are dealing with two great traditions and two teams that have great pride in who they are and they also understand that people who love the tradition of college football would be watching that game. 
CHAD HENNE 
 Q.  What have you been working on? 
 CHAD HENNE:  Just pretty much we've been working on leadership and trying to take the team -- when we would be down, try to get in there and say a few words to the team.  It's just boosting the team up.  And of course, some of those times we were down in the game and we needed somebody to step in and say something and Coach Carr would kind of be the person to do that.  We're kind of pushing toward me to do that and take ahold of this team. 
 Q.  How do you work on that, just discussions with you and Coach Loeffler, do you do role-play? 
 CHAD HENNE:  He's been a guideline for me and just try to help me in the practices that we had this past couple of weeks.  It's tough at first because you really don't know what to say, and just try to be clear and decisive, I guess, and just have an attitude about yourself that winning is the most important thing. 
 Q.  Can you talk about your emotions as far as the feeling going into a Bowl game this year as opposed to last year? 
 CHAD HENNE:  We just get what we deserve.  We didn't have as great a season this year as last year, but we're just happy to be in a Bowl.  Alamo Bowl is a great Bowl and to play a great tradition lick Nebraska, just to finish off the season will be a great game. 
 Q.  How much will a win or a loss here affect your view of the season? 
 CHAD HENNE:  We definitely don't want to go down with a loss.  We want to try to send out the seniors with a bang and hopefully get a win underneath their belt at the last game.  And also just looking forward to text year, just try to get these younger guys to play and get the experience of a Bowl game. 
 Q.  Inaudible? 
 CHAD HENNE:  Yeah, definitely.  Nobody wants to have five losses.  And plus, I don't know how long it's been, it's been a while since we actually did have five losses, and we don't want to be the team that had five losses. 
 Q.  Were you aware of that at all? 
 CHAD HENNE:  Yeah, and we don't -- we're going to try our hardest not to be that team. 
 Q.  How difficult was it to go back and look back at the season and think that basically you were 30 seconds away from ten wins? 
 CHAD HENNE:  It's definitely difficult.  I mean, three points there in one game and then, what, six points in another game?  It's just hard to take down.  We just need to execute.  We kind of stabbed ourselves in the foot and we just need to execute better later in the game and hold on to the ball a little bit longer and get first downs. 
 Q.  Looking at the offense and trying to analyze the past season, what do you see with problems with execution and personal performance, and how do you look at that and try to make sense of what's reality with this offense? 
 CHAD HENNE:  The reality, we do have a great offense.  We just didn't exploit the aspects of it.  I think that it was just a team effort.  You can't point your finger at one guy.  I mean, sometimes here and there were things.  Sometimes we wouldn't be on the right page with the receivers; sometimes we wouldn't get protection; sometimes we wouldn't be able to run the ball.  I mean, you see glimpses here and there in the games that we can perform at that ability and capability that we have.  But we just need to put it all together in this last game and try our hardest just to come out with our A Game and just execute as an offense. 
 Q.  What do you see in their defense? 
 CHAD HENNE:  They have great sacks, I think it's 26 sacks.  It show that is they have great pass rush, and we're going to have to protect and also we're going to have to run the ball.  We had 36 yards -- can't just go into the ball passing the ball all over the place.  We have to keep a balance and try to keep them off-guard. 
 Q.  Have you been working mostly on -- inaudible? 
 CHAD HENNE:  Mark Buhle (phonetic) right now. 
 Q.  Can you talk about what you learned this year, after a great freshman year and then this year up and down, can you just talk about what you learned this year? 
 CHAD HENNE:  Definitely just how to deal with adversity.  I really never had a season with four losses that we had this season.  With all of the critics out there and saying you're not as good as you are, definitely puts a role in your mind.  Pretty much how I handled it is just ignore it and the teammates back you up and the coaches back you up and just lift you up. 
 It's been a tough road but I'm still standing.  I'm just trying to keep -- just keep improving in my game, mentally and physically and just try to go out there and be the best quarterback I can. 
 Q.  Is there a process you go through as the losses start to mount?  You're not used to losing twice, three times; when you get to four, is there a mental process that you go through? 
 CHAD HENNE:  Not really.  I mean, a game -- when the game ends, there's a winner and there's a loser.  If you're on the losing end, of course you're not going to feel as good as you are on the winning end, but you've got to put that game behind and you it's just like each play in the game. 
 If you make mistakes, throw an interception, you've got to put that play behind you and with those loss, just put it behind you, and when we went on that streak, I think we did put those -- when we had three losses, put that behind us and moved on to the next upcoming, that's best for us. 
 Q.  As far as the maturation process, the game plan for you has been a little different for you, did you find yourself going up against a different type of schemes or going up against teams that were better educated to what you can do? 
 CHAD HENNE:  Last year as a freshman they were pressuring me a lot.  That's what you do with a young quarterback, pressure you as much as you can, try to get your route. 
 This year they tried to do that, but if we had protection schemes that we could slide our offensive line into that, we would pick it up and we would start making plays with the pressures and then they would back off a little lit.  It's just how old you are and what the defense thinks of your abilities and how you handle pressure and just different situations. 
 Q.  Being away from football, the mental break, was it a chance to recharge? 
 CHAD HENNE:  I think you always need a break off.  When I went home after the game, kind of just relaxed with your family and get your mind off the season. Then just coming back here, getting timing back together with offense.  It's been an experience and I'm just glad to be back on the field and just be around my teammates for one last game this season. 
CARL TABB 
Q.  Talk about the difference between going into next year 7-5 and 8-4, and is this something that can catapult you into next year, is that how you look at it? 
 CARL TABB:  This is an important game; one, for the seniors; and two, for the team for next year, simply because you use a game like this, that being a Bowl game of any kind, as a catapult into the following year. 
 If you take the Bowl preparation seriously, it's nothing more than an extended season, which is why it can almost be viewed as a separate season and allows for actual development of a lot of things that you would not get the opportunity to develop if you did not have that time. 
 Q.  Can you talk about the growth on special teams? 
 CARL TABB:  Well, just start with myself, I've certainly grown since my first game on special teams.  Coach DeBord does a great job of letting us know what he wants to do and coaching us on how to do it.  
 That being said, the guys that I came in with, they have also improved and I think we have gelled as a team; and the people who are on the special teams unit together, are really just that, a team.  And everything that we did this year, we did together and it made all of our jobs so much easier. 
 Q.  Would a win make you look at your senior year a little differently?  When you look back, how much would a win mean? 
 CARL TABB:  A win would make a difference because I don't like losing.  With that being said, it would not matter if this was my first year, second year, third year.  And the fact that it is my senior season just adds even more of a desire to win to it.  
 I know that all of my teammates feel the same way, and, you know, we are going to do the best that we can to ensure that we don't have to endure another loss.  That's not something that any of us likes and it's something that we have all been fighting all year. 
 Q.  Looking ahead to next year, is that development getting more players, getting more involved? 
 CARL TABB:  The development I'm talking about is yes, it's true that you do try to get your younger players on the team some opportunities to actually practice where they may not have had those opportunities. 
 But also, the development, the further development of the current team, because it's real easy to look to next year but we still haven't made it out of this year yet.  And with the attitude of looking at next year's season, it would be really easy to lose this game. 
 Q.  Looking at Nebraska's defense, what do you see there? 
 CARL TABB:  I think Nebraska has a very viable defense, a very comparable defense.  They are a defense that can stop people.  They have an offense that moves the ball, which helps the defense, because if you don't have to play defense as long, then you're not forced to give stops.  And the offense is keeping the ball because they can, you know, possess it, which causes problems for the other team's offense because now it becomes a scoring battle of who is going to get the most points. 
 Nebraska's defense is definitely a threat to our offense because they have the ability to stop us, and we have to make sure that every one of our drives counts. 
 Q.  Is there something to be said for momentum?  They have won a couple of games and they were kind of on a roll at the end of the regular season, and obviously you guys didn't end with a win, is there a difference there, or after such a long period of time it doesn't matter? 
 CARL TABB:  To be honest with you, whether you win out or not, and I believe I've said this before, when you're approaching a football game, you can't worry about streaks, you can't worry about runs, you can't worry about outside issues or forces. 
 This being said, the fact that Nebraska has been on a winning streak means absolutely nothing towards this game.  You can say that it helps their confidence.  But I'd argue they have to approach the game the same as they are going to have to approach any game, and the same holds true for us.  You could lose every single game and then all of a sudden win the last game and people could say, well, the other team was on a run, how come they didn't win. 
 Being on a run has nothing to do with actually playing on that day.  And when we actually go off to the Alamo Bowl, it's going to be a matter of us and them and who prepared the best and who gave themselves the best chance to win and who wanted it more. 
 Q.  Have you been to San Antonio? 
 CARL TABB:  Never.  Believe it or not, before I actually came to Michigan to be a student and an athlete, I had never been on a plane and the extent of the states I had been to were states that I was visiting for actual visits and Florida. 
 But outside of that, I had not been anywhere. 
GARRETT RIVAS 
 Q.  Have you ever been to San Antonio? 
 GARRETT RIVAS:  Senior in high school I went to the All-American Bowl.  I enjoyed it.  It was a good time. 
 Q.  Inaudible? 
 GARRETT RIVAS:  Every game has a lot of intensity and there's really like no difference.  Every game has a lot of intensity. 
 Q.  Do the players tie into the whole National Championship thing, people talk about it? 
 GARRETT RIVAS:  Not really.  That was so long ago and really we're focusing on the 2005 Alamo Bowl and our season this year.  '97 is not even an issue. 
 Q.  Do you agree with what Mike said, that it sets up for 2006? 
 GARRETT RIVAS:  Every time you go to a Bowl game, it's a chance to get better and really, like if you win that game, it kind of sends you into the season like on the right foot. 
 Q.  For the kicker and punter, it can take awhile to get your legs back and get ready for a game situation; what's your mentality? 
 GARRETT RIVAS:  Just rest, really, like a week or two, just kind of didn't do anything as far as kicking goes.  I mean, you notice -- it's like a noticeable difference when you come back, but you've got more of a pop on the ball, a lot more strength in your leg.  I don't know exactly how long, I took like two weeks off and I was ready to go after that. 
 Q.  Is there a big difference of a team that's 7-5 than 8-4? 
 GARRETT RIVAS:  You're really going in, you don't want to lose any games.  We're definitely tired of losing and we're going to go with San Antonio with the mentality that we want to win that game. 
JAKE LONG 
 Q.  Did it seem possible -- Coach had pretty much ruled you out of the Bowl. 
 JAKE LONG:  Went to go have surgery on it Tuesday, and they told me that it was an old injury and that I did not have to have surgery on it so I didn't have to get it repaired . 
 Q.  Inaudible? 
 JAKE LONG:  Well, it was somewhat, but they said I did it in high school, so having surgery would just make it worse. 
 Q.  What was it? 
 JAKE LONG:  Just like a sprained ligament in my right foot. 
 Q.  How is it now? 
 JAKE LONG:  It's filing a lot better, had a lot of the rest and rehab and I'm moving a. 
 Q.  Were you actually on the table when they figured it out? 
 JAKE LONG:  Yeah, actually, I was passed out and I looked under like a fluoroscope, moved it around and they came to the conclusion that I didn't need it. 
 Q.  So you woke up and -- 
 JAKE LONG:  They said it was going to be a 5050 chance I would cake up with screws in my foot or not, and I didn't, so I was pretty happy.  (Laughter). 
 Q.  Did you have any pain?  Can you push off with that foot? 
 JAKE LONG:  There's really not much pain and it's doing pretty well. 
 Q.  Pretty big turn, going from potentially being out of the Bowl game with screws in your foot to feeling pretty good? 
 JAKE LONG:  Yeah, if it does need surgery, then I'll be able to play and it's just feeling good. 
 Q.  Any idea what you can do up there? 
 JAKE LONG:  Not really.  I'll see a little bit when we go light in practice, but everything else I do. 
 Q.  How much of a difference is it for you to you go from missing this game to all of a sudden being back in the Bowl? 
 JAKE LONG:  It feels great.  When they told me before the Ohio State game I needed surgery, it just hurt having to miss another game and when they told me I didn't need it, it was awesome.  I'm going to go out there and try to do what I can to help my team. 
 Q.  Is it a chance for you to show that the season is not a total loss for you; you only played a couple of games at the end and not at 100%, is it your chance? 
 JAKE LONG:  Yeah, absolutely, because I was hurt all four games I played and I didn't play like I could have.  I really think going into this game I'm going to be 100% and I'll be able to show what I can do. 
 Q.  Coach was very unhappy with a lot of the -- inaudible --  how much conversation has been about that and what has been done about that? 
 JAKE LONG:  Well, Michigan tradition has always been to run the ball and we haven't run the ball like we want the to this year, and especially the Ohio State game.  Our practices were definitely focused on running the ball and getting back to running.  All this game, we're going to be focusing on running and try to run the ball down the field. 
 Q.  Is it an adjustment to the injury or something else?  When you look at it what do you see? 
 JAKE LONG:  You can't blame it on injuries.  As an offensive line, we haven't played like we should have.  I don't know, I think injuries plays a little part of it but you can't blame it on that.  I think this game, we'll be ready to go. 
 Q.  What do you remember about '97, the Michigan/Nebraska controversy? 
 JAKE LONG:  I just remember Nebraska complaining that they had to share with us.  Coach has told us that this is a redemption game and we've got to show them that '97, we were the national champions and we'll go out here and beat them and prove it to everyone. 
 Q.  Coach stressed that? 
 JAKE LONG:  He just said a little bit in the meeting, but not really, he just said something little about it. 
 Q.  Is there a big difference between 8-4 and 7-5? 
 JAKE LONG:  It's a huge difference.  If we can win this game and play well, we'll leave the seniors with a good win and get us ready for next year. 
 Q.  Mike said this is almost the start of next year, this year, is that how you see it, or is it more this season wrapped up? 
 JAKE LONG:  I think it's both, because Bowl practice is a big way to get the freshmen and the younger guys a lot of practice and get ready for next year.  Then, you know, we're still preparing for a game, so this is like a whole new season, a one-game season and we're going out there and try to send the teams out on a good note for this season and also prepare for next season. 
 Q.  Do you feel that the general public -- inaudible? 
 JAKE LONG:  Absolutely not.  San Antonio, I hear it's a good place, a fun place to go.  And Nebraska is a good team and it's going to be a good game.  We're not worried about what the public says.  We're just going out there and play our game and try to win. 
 Q.  Is there disappointment -- inaudible -- not being in the BCS, not playing on January 2nd? 
 JAKE LONG:  We always try to play our best and either win a championship and play on either January 1st or 2nd.  That's always a goal we have.  I know it was disappointing, the season we had.  You know, we had a good season.  It just didn't go our way.  But, you know, Alamo Bowl is going to be a good game and it should be fun. 
 Q.  Is it sort of a wake-up call, there is a lot of parity in the Big 10, the fine line between being an undefeated team? 
 JAKE LONG:  It's a wake-up call showing us that yeah, we are competing for the Big 10 and we are we don't get it and we're not guaranteed the Rose Bowl and we can go anywhere.  We just need to focus on getting back to winning the Big 10 so we are guaranteed that Rose Bowl spot. 
 Q.  You mentioned -- inaudible -- had you made some of your goals? 
 JAKE LONG:  Yeah, every game we have personal goals and team goals.  We always set most of our goals but, you know, our goal is to win the Big 10 and go to a BCS game and we didn't fulfill that. 
 You know, we did hit goals, but next year, we'll definitely have our mind set on the Big 10. 
 Q.  Do you think Iowa deserved to go to the Outback Bowl? 
 JAKE LONG:  No comment. 
 Q.  Did strike you a little odd? 
 JAKE LONG:  I don't know how the whole championship games go.  I know that it was between us and Iowa, and, you know, that's all I really know, and they picked Iowa. 
MIKE HART 
 Q.  Can you talk about the frustration you've felt? 
 MIKE HART:  It was nothing new for me but just part of the struggle and I think it's going to make me a better player and that's -- I think it will make me a better player because everyone gets hurt. 
 Q.  Where are you at right now? 
 MIKE HART:  Got to ask Coach Carr.  (Laughing). 
 Q.  Would be a situation where you could delay your recovery more and it might not be worth playing? 
 MIKE HART:  Maybe.  I'm not sure.  That's why we're waiting to see how it goes, see how it feels this week.  As we get to that point, towards we get to that point, if it keeps bothering me then we'll see what happens.  But like you said we're just going to have to wait.  It's probably going to be a game day, game-time decision that game week. 
 Q.  Dealing with an injury like this, it's not like a broken arm where you know it's broken -- 
 MIKE HART:  I think that's the tough part because it's like, you can't say you have a broken bone and you're in a cast.  It's like, oh, you have a sprained ankle, you missed this many weeks. 
 It's tough.  It's hard.  I'd rather -- I wouldn't have rather have a broken ankle at all.  But it's just like sometimes people look at you like, oh, this kid, he's not tough, but it does come down to we do what's best for the team.  And me out there playing injured is not the best for the team. 
 Q.  Do you think that some people will think that maybe you could suffer through it? 
 MIKE HART:  I think so, definitely, definitely. 
 Q.  Are you able to practice?  Are you practicing? 
 MIKE HART:  I don't know.  (Laughter). 
 Q.  Are you able to run? 
 MIKE HART:  I can jog and stuff like that. 
 Q.  Is there a difference from three weeks ago to how it feels now? 
 MIKE HART:  It gets better and better every day.  We don't want to chance anything right now so I'm not sure.  It's going to be a game-week decision. 
 Q.  Is there something you would have done differently in terms of preparation or recovery this year? 
 MIKE HART:  Not really.  You know, when I got hurt, I got all the treatment I could and I got down there more than anybody, asked trainers and stuff, it just takes time.  Off-season, I worked hard, get in shape, do all that stuff.  So I think I did everything that I could.  It just didn't -- I came back when I could.  In other words, I did everything possible. 
 Q.  Is it hard to balance the feelings of wanting to be out with the team with not want to go risk a long-term injury? 
 MIKE HART:  Yeah.  You know, I'm not worried about -- it's not really a long -- strained ankle, it really can't be a long-term injury, the way I look at it.  So when I'm ready to go, I'll try to get out there as fast as I can and I just want to help my team out and do what I can. 
 I'm not worried about my future.  I'm not worried about long-term right now.  I'm worried about right now and we want to win and I want to win right now and I'm doing everything I can to get out on the field and do it. 
 Q.  When is the last time you felt 100%? 
 MIKE HART:  With the ankle?  Before I hurt it, the Iowa game, Iowa week.  I hurt it third play of Iowa game, but ever since then it's been bothering me. 
 Q.  Is there a danger in trying to sort of push yourself to essentially set yourself back again? 
 MIKE HART:  That's why we have to be smart about it and that's why we're smart about things.  I can't just go out there and keep practicing and keep bothering it keep hurting it, that's not good come game day.  That's why you have to be smart about it.  I do what I can, so that's why I do what I can, and if it bothers me I'll stop doing it and everybody realizes it.  They know, I'm not the type of person that's not going to be, oh, I don't feel like doing this, just not to do it.  I'll try everything and if I can't do it I won't do it. 
 Q.  Is it a pain or is it speed?  How has it limited you? 
 MIKE HART:  Just my flexibility.  It doesn't bother my speed, just when I go to cut, and I cut a lot, obviously, and so I think that's what set me back so much.  If I was a straight-ahead runner, I would be fine but that's not my style of game. 
 Q.  Inaudible? 
 MIKE HART:  We're not going to the Rose Bowl but we look at it as just another game, just like last year, Texas was another game.  Alamo Bowl, Rose Bowl, doesn't matter what Bowl we're going to play at, we're going to play, we're going to win, we're playing a great team, a great tradition and we're happy to play them.  They are a good team.  They're coming out real strong at the end of the year.  They are just like us, they are trying to get ready for next year.  And this game is going to decide that.  This game is going to jump-start the season for next year.  So both teams are going to come out and play hard and to win. 
 Q.  Chad said that nobody wants to be the team that loses five games for the first time in 26 years, how much of a motivation is that for you guys going into this game? 
 MIKE HART:  It's a big motivation.  I can't say I don't want to lose five games but it's like if we were 10-0 right now, I still would not want to lose.  Or if we lost eight games, I still would not want to lose.  Doesn't matter what our record is, we don't want to lose at all.  So going -- that's harsh, that's bad, but I don't care what our record is.  We want to go in there and win, like I said, to jump-start next year. 
 Q.  Why has it been hard for Kevin Grady and why has it been a transition? 
 MIKE HART:  I think he had a great year.  He didn't have too many 100-yard gains but he went in and did a great job.  A lot of people expected a lot out of him because he's a high-profile recruit. 
 I think he came in here and did a lot for the team.  The offensive year was hard for him, not hard for him, but it was complex.  And I think him coming in here this year, he had to learn a lot.  And when I went down, a lot of pressure went on his back to carry the team and stuff.  I think he handled it great and I think he did the best he could.  I think with our lines shuffling all the time, we just had a lot of injuries this year on the offensive line.  So I think he can't didn't run behind the same offensive line every week, he was ready.  I think if the line was 100% every game, I think he would have had a better year. 
 Q.  Inaudible? 
 MIKE HART:  I guess it's a whole new year.  You take a month off and gives you a month to prepare for one game.  We're preparing for one game for a month, so it's like a whole new season. 
 I think getting ready for next year, you know, getting better this year, it's like it's going to prove how good we are next year.  I think this game -- what I want to say is this game right here is going to show us what we have coming in, what we are going to lead to next year, what we're coming to next year. 
 So I think we have to win.  We have to win to get our confidence back so we can have a great confidence in spring ball knowing we're going into next year with a great team.  We lose some people next year, but we have a lot of our team coming back so I think it will be a great confidence booster. 
 Q.  Do you view it as much of a beginning to next year? 
 MIKE HART:  That's the way I view it.  I view it as the beginning to next year, the young freshmen, they are coming along this month and get to see what they do.  You just get to see a lot, what people have learned during the year.  It just shows you about next year. 
PAT MASSEY 
 Q. What do you see against Nebraska? 
 PAT MASSEY:  They are a team that does it all.  They definitely want to spread you out but at the same time, they have two backsets just running right down the middle.  So definitely, they do it all, they do it all. 
 Q.  They haven't been able to run the ball well this year and something I know they wanted to do, but have you seen what what's going on with them? 
 PAT MASSEY:  If you look at the last couple of games, they have definitely gotten better.  Throughout the year they are definitely a team that's improved every single game and their running game, you know, was one of the biggest improvements. 
 Toward the end of year, they are kind of a different team. 
 Q.  For you, how do you view this game and why is it important, what's important to show in this game? 
 PAT MASSEY:  I could go down the list of why this is such a big game for us.  First of all, we still have a lot to prove, especially the defense; just momentum going into next year for the young team, I think it means a lot for those guys. 
 As a senior it's important to go out on a winning note.  This is my last game with Michigan so absolutely want to go out on a winning note. 
 Q.  Talking about next year, what it means to them, seems to be a theme, why is everybody really embracing that, that this is the beginning of getting out of -- 
 PAT MASSEY:  Well, you want to leave a winning legacy for those young guys.  You want to keep that tradition going.  I've been parts of teams where, you know, the next year -- I've been a part of a team where we've lost a Bowl game and won a Bowl game.  Looking back on those years and comparing the differences, it definitely helps when you win your Bowl game for the next year. 
 Q.  Is it a mental thing? 
 PAT MASSEY:  Yeah, just a mental thing, going through winter conditioning, it's just real important to have that confidence and have that winning taste in your mouth. 
 Q.  What have the practices been like so far?  What's been the point of emphasis? 
 PAT MASSEY:  They have been intense practices.  We're going down to win and we know to beat a good Nebraska team, we are going to have to prepare.  We've had good physical practices.  Defense, kinds of been stressing the same things all year.  They have been tough practices. 
 Q.  Where you ended up, a lot of people thought it would be the Outback, do you do you look at that? 
 PAT MASSEY:  The way I look at it as every team in the country besides Texas and USC is a little disappointed and wants to be playing somewhere else.  So, yeah, of course we had high goals and we would love to be playing in the Rose Bowl or BCS, as are most teams.  We're looking at it right now as we've got huge opportunity.  This is a huge game for us and there's not a guy on the team who is not excited to be playing down there. 
 Q.  Going back and watching that game, what do you see? 
 PAT MASSEY:  I thought we played a tough game.  I mean, we made some mistakes, but overall, the biggest thing as we all know is we just didn't finish out the game.  It just came down to those last two drives.  And it doesn't matter how well you play early in the game, if you don't finish, it just doesn't matter, you throw it out the window. 
 So, yeah, just it was a matter of us as a defense not finishing out the game. 
 Q.  Have you been able to pinpoint something or find a way to work on accomplishing that in future games? 
 PAT MASSEY:  Well, I think right now, the biggest thing is just getting into that mentality where no matter what, we've just got to stop them.  We've got to have just desperation to get them off the field. 
 Q.  What do you take from the fact that -- in Texas what would you want the younger players on the team to take from that? 
 PAT MASSEY:  Just the confidence, no matter who you're playing, you can always pull it out.  You're always going to be competitive and you're always going to have that chance to win. 
PIERRE WOODS 
 Q.  Do you know much about the team yet? 
 PIERRE WOODS:  We've been watching film on them.  On their tackles, I guess they have got a lot of young guys, older guys, so they put a lot of guys in.  So it's kind of hard to really get a good grade on tackles but overall they are a good thing, a good thing. 
 Q.  Do you have expectations, all of the Bowl talk, were you disappointed? 
 PIERRE WOODS:  Disappointment is Tennessee.  They are not going to a Bowl game, I guess in the last 26 years, so I'm not disappointed.  None of the team is disappointed.  I'm happy.  You know, we're excited, we're excited.  We're getting a chance to play Nebraska.  Everybody is talking about in '97, Nebraska and Michigan should have played, so now we get the opportunity to play them and it's going to be fun. 
 Q.  If so, who would have won? 
 PIERRE WOODS:  Michigan would have won in.  '97 Michigan would have won. 
 But it's a new year so we're going to go out and work hard, practice hard and prepare for them and hopefully come out with a win. 
 Q.  Have you heard from any of those guys on the '97 team? 
 PIERRE WOODS:  No, I haven't heard anything.  We just been practicing and right now, that's what we're doing, just trying to get ready for them, prepare. 
 Q.  In practice, is there a different feeling, is it more spread out? 
 PIERRE WOODS:  No, it's basically the same.  The only thing, going to a Bowl game, it's own a one-game season, so I'm pretty sure Nebraska is telling their players the same thing.  Both teams want to send the seniors out with a win, so it's going to be a battle.  Regardless of how people look at it, I guess, I think it's going to be a battle.  
 Q.  Offensively? 
 PIERRE WOODS:  Their style of offense, I think is a West Coast-style offense from Bill Callahan, and it's different.  It's different.  They motion a lot.  It's like our offense a lot, a lot of shifts, a lot of motions and everything.  But they want to run the ball, and with their running backs, they try to throw, pass it behind. 
 Q.  Is there a different mentality going into a December Bowl instead of a January Bowl?  January Bowls here, just mentally, is there a barrier there? 
 PIERRE WOODS:  No.  It still feels the same.  It still feels like it's a January Bowl.  It's just a couple of days early.  It's just a couple days early. 
 We'll go in there and it will be like a New Year's Day Bowl and prepare the same way.  It's a shorter time to prepare, but we're on it.  We're on it. 
 Q.  Do you look at this Bowl, the Alamo Bowl -- do players think about the exposure of the Bowl, to showcase? 
 PIERRE WOODS:  It's definitely a showcase.  It's a game at night, down in Texas, so it's going to be fun.  We're preparing for this.  Everybody will be watching and it's going to be fun.  We've got to go out there and, you know, handle our business. 
 Q.  How big of a difference will a win make going into next year? 
 PIERRE WOODS:  It will be a big difference in the spirit of how our team starts out next year, going out with a win, and especially for the seniors, we need to win.  We need to win.  It would be great, especially for the team for next year, it's going to be great for them. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT