ROGERS MASTERS
August 10, 2005
Sebastien Grosjean
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Sebastien in English. 


Q.  What did you think the key was to turning it around after the rain? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  You know, it was pretty easy because he make a double-fault on the first point.  But I would say I serve much better after the rain, and I was maybe more aggressive than him.  You know, even after the rain, it was really close, 7-6.  Then in 2-All, he had breakpoint on my serve, maybe two breakpoints.  It was pretty close.  But I think my serve helped me a lot. 

Q.  Do you sense your own experience against someone like him at 19 at times during a match like that?

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  I would say maybe after the rain because now I used to it.  I played, you know, in Wimbledon, and you have many matches like that.  You can have a rainy day like three, four, five times for the same match.  You know, maybe I was more aggressive after the rain, yeah. 


Q.  Before the rain, when it was 2-All, what happened? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Well, I remember he won six points in a row.  I only served one point that was not well-played, but he somehow played his backhand down the line a little more.  But at 5-3, when he started playing, I decided to receive serve further behind the baseline.  Until then, I was too close to the baseline.  I returned not as well.  The balls came too fast.  That gave me more time.  But it's true that he did not serve that well after that. 

Q.  How do you feel about the suspended play because of the rain? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Maybe on the last point, two seconds after the lightning, we heard the noise of thunder, so it was very close, then it was better to stop. 

Q.  Gasquet asked to stop play many times, but you did not.  Did it disturb you as much? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  We wait for the chair umpire to make a decision.  It's not a situation where it was raining and it was obvious we had to stop.  We just had to wait for the decision of the chair umpire.  When it sprinkles, the lines become slippery.  At that time maybe we can ask the chair umpire to stop, but it was not the case. 

Q.  Was it like at Wimbledon? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  It's true that we are used to those situations in Wimbledon, but here the situation was different than at Wimbledon. 

Q.  After play resumed, somehow you played better.  What happened?  Even though it's not always easy to do so, we had the feeling that you were hitting more into the ball. 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  He did not serve as well after play resumed, so it gave me a better chance to hit and get into those rallies more than before.  He served a little less well.  It's true that I was not afraid to play on his backhand any more.  I felt I was going to be aggressive as often as I had the chance.  On the whole, it's true that after play resumed, I played more aggressively than he did. 

Q.  Are you happy to have played him in an official match like this? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yes.  I knew he had a lot of talent.  There's no doubt about this.  We have trained together.  I knew more Gael than him.  But I was happy to play him because he has a great future and he is a great French tennis player. 

Q.  Now that you have two victories one after the other, it's not bad, is it? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  It's a nice situation because I did not have an easy first-round match.  To beat Richard the way I did was a good match, and this is the positive part of it. 

Q.  Now the next opponent is Nadal. 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  It's not obvious the way I have to play him.  He loves to lead the match, to put pressure on the opponent.  He has a great physique.  He moves very well.  To beat him, I will have to play a great match. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT