WIMBLEDON
June 29, 2005
Sebastien Grosjean
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions. 


Q.  Second game, fifth set, you hit a great serve, you jam him, sticks the racquet out, blocks it back for a break.  Is that a nightmare kind of a shot? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  You know, I didn't really start that fifth well.  He served better since the first game.  But, you know, I have 30-All, a forehand also, and I touch the let (sic), the top of the net.  It gave him the chance to pass me on 30-All also.  But, you know, in the fifth, it's nothing. 

Q.  On this particular point at 30-40, with a break on the line... 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yeah, but, you know, that's the game on grass.  You have to accept.  But, you know, after I have no chance to break.  He was serving very well, really aggressive in the fifth. 

Q.  Are you satisfied even in defeat? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yes and no.  You know, each time I was with him in the beginning of the set, I won the set.  You know, in the second, third and the fifth, I gave him the opportunity to be ahead in score and playing his game.  I was a little bit up and down with my serve.  At the end, you know, it was not enough. 

Q.  You had a good game plan to pressure him at the net, hitting to his backhand side.  You seemed to go away from that in the last couple of sets. 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yeah, you know, but it's not easy on his serving game.  He's serving like amazing.  You have a little pressure on your serve.  So sometimes you want to be aggressive, but you don't hit the shot very well.  But, you know, I play pretty well. 

Q.  The first set, was that the best you've played against Andy?

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  It was maybe the best set of the five.  We both, you know, play well.  You know, he had chances to break me in the first two games.  But I broke first.  It was the best set.  I play pretty well. 

Q.  Of course, you had a big shot in the fourth set to break back.  Can you go through point with us?

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Which one? 

Q.  The backhand passing shot that gave you the key break. 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  It was, what, 30-All in deuce?  In the fourth, he miss a forehand on breakpoint.  He serve wide, and you return.  I pass with my backhand cross-court.  I had two breakpoints before.  I had the chance to break before, but it was a good point, yeah. 

Q.  When you got that break, what did you think about going into the fifth? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  I was -- I didn't really think about the fifth.  I was thinking keep playing the same, be aggressive on my serving game, put pressure on him.  I serve pretty well.  I think he had a breakpoint on that game after at 4-2.  He miss a backhand.  I just kept my serve and I play well. 

Q.  Did you speak after the match?

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  No, not really.  He doesn't stay at the same locker room. 

Q.  At the net?

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  At the net, yeah.  I said, "Well done.  Good luck for the rest of the tournament." 

Q.  Do you think he's capable of beating Federer if he gets through to the final?

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  He's playing Johansson in semis.  Roger is playing Lleyton in semis also.  That question, they have both to win their match before.  You know, Andy, if he's serving well, confident, you know, he can beat everybody. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT