WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2005
Sebastien Grosjean
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  Good time for a day off after five sets?

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yeah, is good.  It was tough match, big battle, against Tursunov, who is tough to play because there is no rhythm and hit the ball hard.  So it wasn't easy, you know, to stay focused during all the match.  But I really happy the way I finish this game. 

Q.  Are your legs fresh?  What do they feel like now?

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yeah, I feel good.  I feel okay.  I won't say I will play five more sets.  It's good, you know, to win.  Play a really good fifth.  You know, rest a little bit tomorrow. 

Q.  You've played Andy in practice sessions so many times.  There are no surprises when you play, are there?

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yeah, I know the way he play.  I know he has a huge serve.  I have to focus, you know, maybe a little bit more maybe on my serve to keep my serve.  Especially at the beginning of the set, you, to go on 4-, 5-All, maybe a breaker.  Is going to be the key of the match, you know, the serve, yeah. 

Q.  When you do train with him, because you know each other so well, are occasional neighbors, is there time to joke a bit during the practice sessions or are they deadly serious?

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  No, we joke a little bit.  He's really nice guy.  I like to practice with him because he puts a lot of intensity on the practice.  So it's always a good practice with him.  No, you know, I like with him, yeah. 

Q.  How will this be different than the Houston final?  Pretty stupid question because it's a very different surface.  How will you change what you try to do?

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  I played him at Queen's two weeks ago, and I lost 4 and 6.  But I had chances.  I did a bad serving game in 5-4 for him in the first, but I had the break in the second, and I didn't keep, you know, my serve.  I had chances. 

Q.  Your game has progressed considerably since April. 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yeah, but I'm talking about the match at Queen's. 

Q.  You've played so much since April, kind of getting back into things. 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yeah, I play much better.  I play more matches also, so is great.  But, you know, I have to use a little bit, you know, what I did at the Queen's and keep doing better here. 

Q.  Roger Federer says to some extent he can read Andy's serve. 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  He can read? 

Q.  Can you read his serve?

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  You know, the thing with Andy, he serve well, you know, all direction.  So sometimes it's easy, you know, when he take the ball and he serve.  But when he's taking his time, sometimes is much tougher.  I won't say you can read every time his serve, no. 

Q.  You've had great success on grass.  How is it that you do so well on this surface when you don't have a big serve or hit a lot of aces?

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  I think I serve well.  You know, I serve, my best serve is 136, so it's pretty good.  No, but my serve is, you know, much better on grass because it goes faster.  And my shot, you know, my slice and my forehand, it's, you know, a little bit more aggressive on that surface than on a different surface.  So that's maybe why I play here. 

Q.  Do you try to hit aces or are you just trying to set up the point?

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  No, I try to, you know, serve aces when I can, yeah. 

Q.  What is the most important thing that Brad has added to your game?

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  I would say more mental, you know, because even if today I didn't really play well, you know, I stay focused.  Especially in the third, I lost twice in a row my serve, and I won the set.  So, you know, I didn't really give up on his serving game.  You know, try to put pressure when I had chances.  You know, stay focused on that side, and win that third set, maybe make me win the match. 

Q.  You could have had any coach available.  Why did you ask Brad to coach you?

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  You know, I know him a little bit.  Not when he was with Jim, but when he was with Mardy, with Taylor.  I talked to him a little bit.  Since the first time I saw him, I really appreciated the person of Brad.  I want an American coach because I'm more over there, different attitude, different way to practice.  I call him. 

Q.  Do you care if you hit aces or are you more concerned with holding your serve?

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  I mean, is better to hold your serve, of course.  You can of serve three aces but lose the game and it's ridiculous.  So, no, it's better to, you know, keep your serve and put pressure on the return. 

Q.  The two semifinals here, could this be the year you go all the way?

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  It's tough to say.  I play Roddick in quarters so I have to focus on that match.  No, I don't want to see after the semis.  I want to see Wednesday, like Wednesday, be focused, play as good as I can. 

Q.  Has the relationship with Andy extended to his coming over to your house or dinner at all?

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  No, no.  You mean here?  You know, he moved to Austin.  So even his parents moved to Texas.  So I don't really see him but just for his charity.  When I can, I do stuff. 

Q.  When he was living most of the time in Boca. 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  No, no, no. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT