WIMBLEDON
June 28, 2004
Sebastien Grosjean
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions in English first. 


Q.  Could you just give your thoughts on the match today. 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  I played a really good match.  I was serving very well, yeah, since the first point.  You know, I was two-set-to-love-up and a break.  In that game, I didn't serve well, and he came back and hit the ball better.  You know, I was in trouble at the end of the third set.  He had three or four set point.  And, you know, I never give up at the end of the third set.  Little by little I came back, my serve came back, and I won in three sets.  Is good thing for me. 

Q.  That was the one thing that really stood out to me, you weren't willing to concede anything in that third set. 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yeah.  Even if I had a break down, you know, I keep playing my game.  I try to play aggressive because when he's in the feel, I mean, he was playing well.  You know, Ginepri is a good player when he's on the court and hit the ball.  So I try, you know, to play more aggressive than him all the match. 

Q.  It seems like a lot has been said of Lleyton Hewitt, Roger Federer, obviously Tim Henman.  You're quietly advancing in the tournament.  Your next match will be against a player who is in their first Wimbledon, Florian Mayer or the Swedish player. 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yeah, I don't know them.  I never played against them.  I know Johansson has a big serve.  He played Arnaud Clement in the first round.  I saw a little bit the match.  Mayer, I don't know at all.  Is going to be the first match against them.  But I don't really focus against the other guy.  I still focus on my game and what I have to do, and that's it.

Q.  Being French, this being England, grass, you continue to show that you're very comfortable on grass.  What is it about your game that allows you to be so comfortable?

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  You know, my serve is better than on clay.  You know, is a little bit faster.  I use more the slice serve.  I return well.  So that's help me a lot, you know, on grass.  It's more a game on that court.  You know, I try to enjoy on the court and use more the slice backhand.  You know, that's work, so I have to continue like that. 

Q.  Can you win Wimbledon?

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  I hope so.  You know, I'm here to win the tournament, so I will see.  I will be focused on my next match, and after I will see. 

Q.  During Queen's Club, you said you were very relaxed in London playing matches, then watching some football or listening to music.  Do you do the same pattern in Wimbledon?

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  I don't really watch football anymore (smiling).  I keep relaxing myself in London, yeah.  No, I watch a little bit at night, you know, football.  But, you know, I like to be in London.  You know, it's almost a month now.  Keep the same, enjoy playing matches here. 

Q.  French players have done well here in previous years.  Do you listen to them sometimes and talk about playing here? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  No, I don't listen to them at all, no (smiling).  No, no, no.  I just -- playing on grass, it's a surface I love to play.  You know, play my game. 

Q.  Which sort of player would you choose to play against, Mayer or Johansson? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  I don't know them, so I don't have any preference about the player, no. 

Q.  What did impress you, Johansson, in the match against Clement?

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  I saw, you know, after he was 5-All in the third, so I saw two games in the tiebreak.  So I didn't see a lot of, you know, points.  But he was serving very well.  You know, that is the best shot maybe, yeah. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT