PACIFIC LIFE OPEN
March 16, 2004
Sebastien Grosjean
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Sebastien.  
 
 
Q.  What was the key to the match today? 
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  My serve maybe.  You know, I was serving very well for almost two sets, and after, you know, I didn't have a good percentage in my first serve.  Guillermo played more aggressive than me.  That was maybe the key, you know, my serve. 
 
Q.  Was fatigue at all a factor in the last set?
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  No, no fatigue.  I mean, he was playing better and better, moving very well.  You know, I didn't have a short ball after my first serve.  So I was less aggressive in the third set than in the two first. 
 
Q.  This is the first time you played him.  What do you like about his game?  What does he do well?
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  He's moving very well.  He has a really good backhand.  I think he has a better backhand than forehand - especially down the line.  You know, he's fight very well, moving very well.  If you give him a short ball, you know, he can be aggressive, as well.  
 
Q.  You're part of almost a new breed of player, it seems, very versatile tennis being played by people like yourself, Roger, others.  A few years the thinking was that the game was going to be dominated by big guys banging the ball around.  Can you comment why this development has happened now? 
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  I think is good, you know, to see different style of the game.  Everybody, you know, can play well and win big events.  So I think it's good for the game, for the public, as well, to see different styles.  You know, but sometimes better for the public to see different games against.  
 
Q.  Was it something you worked on consciously?  Did you feel you needed all these tools or was it just that you had all these tools and you kept practicing and they got better and better? 
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  No, you know, you have to practice.  But it was my way, you know, I was playing when I was young.  So I keep practicing that way and try to improve, you know, my serve, my game more aggressive, I would say.  But you have to keep, you know, practicing the way you think is good for you.  
 
Q.  I saw Coria play Max Mirnyi, big guy, big serve.  He handled that well.  He handled your power, too.  What makes him able to handle these bigger players?  Is it just his speed?
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  I think he's returning very well.  He has a good return.  And you have always to play one more shot, always put the ball, you know, back when he's in defense.  So that's tough.  The other guy, you have always one more shot to finish the point.  So it's never easy.  You know, when he has an opportunity, he can, you know, hit the ball hard and come to the net, as well.  He can play, you know, from the both side. 
 
Q.  He's not a very big guy. 
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yeah, yeah.  But maybe Lleyton Hewitt is not a big guy, as well, and he was No. 1.  So, you know, everybody can play well.  
 
Q.  Which surface do you feel gives you the best opportunity to exploit the variety in your game?
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  I like to play on that surface.  Yeah, I like.  I like to play indoors.  I serve better in indoors than outdoor.  That's help my game a lot.  
 
Q.  You had some tough times in recent months with injuries.  How are you feeling now?  How do you feel compared to two years ago when you had the big year and reached the final of the Masters?
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  I feel pretty good.  Unfortunately, I was injured at the Australian Open again.  I took like five weeks off.  You know, I tried to play maybe less tournament than I used to play, like around 18, 20, and tried to play a hundred percent each tournament I would play.  No, I feel pretty good.  I'm really happy to play without injury.  
 
Q.  What would be your goal for this year?
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  French Open, of course, yeah.  Win the French (smiling).  
 
Q.  Would that be your No. 1 tournament?
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yeah, that's my No. 1.  
 
Q.  If you had one major to win?
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  French Open, for sure, no doubt.  
 
Q.  On the lines of versatility you see with the French players, yourself, Santoro, Emilie Loit.  Is there some reason that the French seem to approach the court and the way they use it differently?
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  I don't know.  Maybe because we play on different surfaces when we are young.  We play on clay, hard, indoors.  Maybe that's help the players.  You need to play a different way than if you only play on hard or on clay.  That's maybe why we are different games in France.  
 
Q.  Is there something in the French way of thinking?
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  No, no, not really.  Everybody's different.  
 
Q.  Is it Evian?
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  No, no.  Everybody's different.  They play the way they feel. , you know, is good for them.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT