WIMBLEDON
July 3, 2003
Sebastien Grosjean
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Questions, please.  
 
 
Q..  When you had one of the rain delays yesterday, before you came out and won that third set, how badly were you hurting with the injury in the groin? 
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Just a little.  You know, it was tough for me to run to my forehand.  But Tim was playing better than the first set.  He start to play better after 5-1, when we come back the second time.  And I was little bit lucky to win the first set after.  
 
Q..  Have you hurt your groin again yesterday during the match? 
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  It was more my butt, my behind.  
 
Q..  So a new injury?
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yeah, little bit, yeah, on my forehand.  It was difficult for me to run, especially to my forehand.  But Tim played better, you know, after.  So he was maybe more  -- less time than the beginning of the match.   
 
Q..  Is that injury the reason why you were so keen to come off court last night? 
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yes, a little, yeah.  It was tough for me.  He was playing better, and I wasn't moving that well.  After, I played more aggressive, you know.  I hit the ball harder.  So I had more time.  
 
Q..  You felt if the match would have carried on last night, that it might have been a different story given your injury? 
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  When we stop, you know, was two-sets-to-one for me and 2-1 for him in the fourth.  But the third time when we stopped at, what was it, one-set-all or maybe 1-all, something like that, yeah, that's helped me a lot, yeah. 
 
Q..  How did you sleep last night?  Did you have difficulty?
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Not really, not really.  Because I was two-sets-to-one up.  It's easier, you know, to sleep when you leading.  But, no, I knew is gonna be difficult for him, too.  So, no, I sleep pretty good, yeah.  
 
Q..  To what extent, if at all during the match, did you feel you were physically stronger than he was? 
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yeah, I knew even if I wasn't, you know, in a good shape, I knew he had, you know, the shoulder problem.  So, you know, I was maybe focus on myself and try my best and I knew he wasn't serving 100 percent.  
 
Q..  You took just 32 minutes to wrap up the match today.  Did you expect maybe it could last a little longer?  Did you expect more of a fight?
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yeah, little bit.  You know, I was 2-1 down and it's never easy to come back and serve.  But I played pretty good today and Tim missed one or two shots.  That's helped me to stay in the match at the beginning.  
 
Q..  You held your serve very well out there.  Was that difficult, or does it come easy?
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  No, it wasn't so easy.  It was difficult because I had matchpoint in 5-4, but I served two breakpoint again before.  So it was pretty close.  No, no, I was a little bit nervous, but, no, I served pretty well.  I serve three first serve and, you know, I was 40-love, so it's easier to serve at 40-love. 
 
Q..  What was going through your mind when you were two breakpoints down and you smashed the ball...
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  I didn't think.  I just smashed. 
 
Q..  Instinctive, was it?
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yeah.  Was pretty good lob and, you know, just hit the ball.  You know, I try to, you know, take my chance, yeah.  Don't wait for a miss. 
 
Q..  How difficult is that?  You weren't just playing Tim, but you were pretty much playing the crowd?  They were obviously mostly for him. 
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yeah, but I knew before the match it's gonna be difficult for me.  The quality of the game of Tim, and the people here.  But, you know, I try to focus, to be concentrate on all game, all points, and, you know, to enjoy on the court. 
 
Q..  Talk about the semifinal. 
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yeah, it's gonna be tough, you know.  Mark's serving pretty big.  So it's gonna be difficult, but we will see.  I'm gonna try to keep my serve, first, and focus on myself, and then try to take, you know, if I want chance on his serve, yeah.  
 
Q..  Quite often when someone gets to this point in a Grand Slam, the most important thing is believing in your head that you can win it.  Do you believe in your mind that you can be the champion here at Wimbledon?  Or do you have doubts? 
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  No, you know, when you're in semi, there are only four guys, yes.  So I think all of us think we can win.  And, yes, I have a chance, you know.  I beat Lleyton at the Queen's, and he won last year here.  So, yes, I think I have a chance, but I have to focus on the game of tomorrow.  
 
Q..  Did you notice any improvement with Tim and his serve here since you played him at Queen's?  Was he serving better, or was it about the same? 
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  I don't know.  Yeah, maybe he had more confidence here because he was in quarters and he won, like, four games  -- four matches here.   But it was not kind of the same, yeah.  He used to serve faster, you know, last year  -- I mean two years ago, because he's starting to feel the pain last year.  But, no, he was kind of the same spin. 
 
Q..  Henman, of course, will play serve and volley, but his first serve is maybe 110, 108 miles an hour.  Philippoussis  - 125, 130, and those long arms coming at you.  How much more difficult will it be to pass him or to make successful service returns on him?
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yeah, I just saw the end of the match.  Even on second serve, he was serving 125.  So it's gonna be difficult.  But, you know, I'm gonna try to focus and take any chance I will have, and, you know, put the ball on court each time I can.  And, you know, lot of balls he has to play, it's better for me. 
 
Q..  With a player like that, would you prefer to take his serve close in at the baseline and try to hit early or back up and just try to get a longer look at his serve and return it?
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Depends, you know, at the beginning of the match.  I always try to play the match pretty close to the baseline.  After, if is too fast or I go a little bit back, it depends of the beginning.  
 
Q..  Your first matchpoint was on Henman's serve and he put in a second serve which was about 115 miles an hour.  Did that take you by surprise? 
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  I knew he was going on my forehand, you know, because I was return better on backhand today.  So I was waiting for him.  But, you know, I hit the ball, I just touch the top of the net.  So was pretty close.  But, you know, I took my chance on the second serve.  I wasn't so surprise he hit, you know, good second serve.  
 
Q..  Is the family here? 
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Marseille.  My wife came like 10 days ago. 
 
Q..  What do you hear from the people at Bouchon du Grove? 
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  No, not that much.  I didn't call, you know, over there. 
 
Q..  They're calling you?
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  I have friends in Pompano and Boca who call me, yeah.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT