WIMBLEDON
July 1, 2003
Sebastien Grosjean
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Ladies and Gentlemen, Sebastien Grosjean. 
 
 
Q.  For the sake of European harmony and British history, would you consider playing very badly tomorrow?
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  (Laughing).  I don't know.  I will try to play a good game, you know.  But, no, I know everybody will be for Tim.  He has a really good chance to win this year.  But, you know, I will try my best to play a good game. 
 
Q.  How have you come to become such an excellent grass court player in the last two years? 
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  You know, I play last 16 five years ago here, and, you know, I like to play on grass.  It's pretty good and fast game, and I like.  It's really a game here.  And, you know, I work hard after losing in second round at the French, and I come here earlier than the year past.  And, you know, I played well at the Queen's, and I won two good matches over there and I have confidence now. 
 
Q.  How do you think the atmosphere on Centre Court will affect you tomorrow?  I mean, it inspires a lot of players, doesn't it? 
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  I play Tim it was three years ago on Centre Court.  And, you know, even if I lost, you know, the crowd was, you know, was for Tim but was, you know, good.  I didn't feel I was  -- everybody was against me.  But I know tomorrow maybe is gonna be different, but I will focus on myself.  
 
Q.  Sure, but do you think it could inspire you?  A lot of players sort of almost thrive on it. 
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Centre Court here, it's wonderful.  I mean, I really happy to play on Centre tomorrow.  I will, you know, focus on my game, don't think I have Tim, you know, against me. 
 
Q.  You won at Queen's.  Does that give you a psychological advantage? 
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  I don't know.  Did you ask him?  I don't know.  But, you know, it's always good to beat a player, you know, like 10 days before when you have to play one more time against him.  
 
Q.  Your game, as you say, is well-suited to grass. 
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yeah, yeah.  I play well.  You know, against him at the Queen's, I play a really good game.  I return so well, and so I have to return well tomorrow again.  
 
Q.  You said Tim's got a really good chance.  You must fancy your own chances?
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  You know, I will, you know, try my best tomorrow and, you know, I will think after.  I wannt to take match after match.  I don't know, everybody's talking about, you know, Tim's chances here because Lleyton lost and Andre lost.  But I don't really, you know, think about the victory, I think about the match tomorrow.  
 
Q.  May be a chance for an outsider. 
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  I don't know.  You know, maybe, but...  I don't really think about, you know, the semis and the final after. 
 
Q.  Do you think this pressure could rest heavy on Tim's shoulders, if you like, as well? 
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  I don't know, maybe.  Always when you play at home, you know, you have always, you know, little bit pressure.  But is the same for us when we play at the French Open so...  But, you know, Tim likes to play, because last past year he always plays pretty well here. 
 
Q.  All these aces you've had here, have you been working hard on your serve?  You had 27 aces in one match.  That's so unlike you.
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yeah, yeah, I work hard, you know, since one year and a half.  I work a little bit in the gym, and I serve more at the  -- in the practice time.  And, you know, that's help me a lot now in my game.  
 
Q.  There were some young ladies on the practice court who were talking about your sex appeal.  I was wondering what your reaction is to that?
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Oh, yeah?  Which girls?  Which girls (smiling).  I don't know.  I didn't see them. 
 
Q.  Are you comfortable with that, now that you have the higher profile, you might be getting more of that?
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  I don't know.  Ask my wife, I don't know if she will be happy (smiling).  No, I don't really, you know, think about that, no.  
 
Q.  At 4-4, there was a double bounce on one of your returns.  Can you say what happened at the net. 
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  At the net when I talked to the umpire, you mean?  
 
Q.  Uh-hmm. 
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  No, I told him it bounced twice, and that's it.  But I was surprised the umpire didn't see, because it was clearly two bounce there. 
 
Q.  What is your physical situation right now?  Any pain left over from the groin injury that you got?
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  It was a little bit like three or four days ago during my fourth round.  But a day off on Sunday, was better and better.  Now I feel good, yeah. 
 
Q.  Do you think it will help you or hinder you to play that extra set today while Tim had a rest day?
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  It's better for me to play only one set today, because if you play two sets, can be maybe a long set with a tiebreak in the fifth.  But I play maybe one hour today, so it's okay, yeah.  
 
Q.  What do you think of the way Henman is playing at the moment? 
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  You know, I didn't really watch his game.  Only see  -- saw him against Michael Llodra, like a few games.  But he only lost one set, so I think he's playing pretty good. 
 
Q.  What about when you played him at Queen's, what did you think about how he was playing then?
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Tim wasn't serving so good at Queen's.  He was maybe feeling his shoulder.  But I played good there, so I don't know.  We will see tomorrow if, you know, he serve better and everything.  
 
Q.  Is your belief growing round by round now? 
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  My confidence, yes, you know, match after match.  When you win matches, you feel better.  But you have to focus, you know, in next round, and, you know, really be concentrated on that again.  
 
Q.  Because, I mean, when you reach the sort of quarterfinal stage and onwards, it's within reason almost, isn't it?
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yeah, I'm really happy to be in the last eight because is my first time here, in last eight.  So I am really happy.  But more the way I play, you know?  I beat pretty good, you know, players here.  So I'm really, really happy now. 
 
Q.  If there was a race over 40 meters between you and Lleyton Hewitt, who would win? 
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  I don't know (smiling).  No, no, no.  Lleyton is really fast but, you know, Clement, too, is pretty fast (smiling).  
 
Q.  You moved to Boca, what, four years ago?
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yes. 
 
Q.  Why did you choose that place, and how do you like it there? 
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  For practice.  I mean, I was in Marseille and I moved to Paris for a few months and, you know, I didn't really like the weather in Paris, especially in winter for practice.  So we moved in '99, like March '99, and, you know, for practice, play, you know, there is few players over there.  And especially in winter, it's perfect.  
 
Q.  Can you turn the crowd to your advantage, actually, tomorrow, if you get off to a good start, win the first set, the crowd can go very quiet?
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  I don't know.  You know, I have to start the match very well and, you know, to hit the ball pretty well at the beginning.  Because if Tim has a good start, you know, with the public behind, he will have more confidence.  But, you know, I have to play very well at the beginning, yeah.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT