DAVIS CUP - RUSSIA vs FRANCE
December 1, 2002
Sebastien Grosjean
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Questions for Sebastien. 


Q.  Three sets seems straightforward.  In spite of that, we had the impression it could have turned around at any time.  What do you think? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  It's true that in the third set I had many opportunities.  But even in the third set, he played at a very high level.  I was able to maintain the lead.  I really wanted to win this third set to see what he was going to do in the fourth set, but I believe he played a very great match. 

Q.  Do you believe it's the best match he played against you, after playing five or six times together? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yes, maybe.  He was impressive with everything:  service, returns, from the baseline, he was hitting off both sides.  When he plays like that, he's very difficult to beat. 

Q.  In the third set, didn't you feel he could be a bit weak either physically or mentally? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yes, maybe.  But in difficult moments, he served very well, he played very well.  When he's in this state of mind, he's able to beat anybody.  I remember his match against Hewitt in Bercy.  He's very difficult to destabilize in those cases. 

Q.  Guy said you could give him trouble with different things.  What strategy did you choose before the match? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  To mix it up a lot, to not give him any rhythm because then he becomes very powerful.  I tried it today, but I was in a difficult position on my serve.  Every time I had the opportunity, I took my chances.  In the third set, it just was one point away from a fourth set. 

Q.  Did you feel a bit powerless?  Did it remind you of your match against Philippoussis?

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  No, not really.  Against Philippoussis, it was really mentally I missed completely my match.  Today, although I lost in three straight sets, I played a solid match.  He was hitting hard from both sides.  With this power, it's difficult to counterattack. 

Q.  You were talking about your serve.  Is it the only thing you can criticize or are there other parts of the game that were not so good? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  I believe I should have hit my forehand a bit harder.  It was difficult, because he played a lot to my backhand also.  Maybe I should have had a better percentage of first serves.  I might have won free points which would have helped me in the end.

Q.  Sometimes we had the impression that every time you hit the ball you needed a winner.  Wasn't it exhausting? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  No, I think at the end of the match he started thinking about what he was doing.  I was accelerating on my side.  In the end of the match, I was not far away compared to his level. 

Q.  In spite of that, I suppose you realized that you made incredible progress in Davis Cup since the beginning.  How do you explain that?  What are the major turning points? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  The turning points?  I think last year, I was playing very well.  Mentally I was not as good.  In the end of the season, I became better.  I think I missed a little bit in the final.  But each victory was an asset for me.  I was fighting all the time, so this gave me a good dynamic for Davis Cup.

Q.  Do you feel a real Davis Cup player? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  I don't know.  But I think in front of 15,000 people today, encouraging me on each point, I think I'm starting to love this competition. 

Q.  What did Guy say during the match and what did he tell you after the match? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  He always told me not to give up, to continue fighting.  I was really not far from bringing him to a fourth set.  I don't think I have to be ashamed of this loss.  I think he was very impressive. 

Q.  On the set points, do you have criticism about what you did? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  No.  On my serve, I tried to serve and volley.  I don't even remember.  The other were on his serve.  No, I don't think I have anything to criticize about myself.  I played those points perfectly well, but I couldn't do anything. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT