US OPEN
August 30, 2002
Sebastien Grosjean
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.  
 
 
Q.  Obviously, you're very good friends with Arnaud.  How difficult is it to play a match in the US Open against a friend?
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  It's never easy.  But, you know, here it was maybe the best I play this summer.  We played pretty good.  It wasn't so difficult to play Arnaud today because I play him like one year and a half ago.  He was tougher.  But, you know, it was a first, today we play well.  So it wasn't too difficult today.  
 
Q.  You've practiced so much together.  How much does that play into tactics in a match like this, where you know each other so well? 
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yeah, it's never easy because he know my game very well and I know his game very well.   But, you know, now on the tour we know all players, so it's okay now.  
 
Q.  At the end, losing your serve the last couple times, what happened there? 
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  I was little bit tired at the end of the third set.  I don't know, I felt something in my quad and it was tough for me to push on the serve.  But I don't know if it was an injury or maybe a little bit of fatigue.  I don't know.  
 
Q.  Clement said that it's fantastic to win in five sets, but not against you.  I take it your feelings would have been the same had you come out on top? 
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  It's always tough to beat, you know, your best friend.  But, you know, today was a really good match.  And, you know, at the end, you need a winner.  So I'm happy for him.  He can go through in the tournament.  I hope he do well like I did two years ago.  
 
Q.  I just would like to ask one question.  If you could talk about how you train in Boca Raton. 
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yeah, I'm practicing there at the Chris Evert Academy, (inaudible), sometimes in Delray.  It's a pretty good area around there.  For practice, it's perfect.  I mean, I play outside every time and there is good partner there.  I enjoy the life.  
 
Q.  We're always excited to watch you, too. 
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yeah, thanks.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT