TMS MONTE CARLO
April 20, 2002
Sebastien Grosjean
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  There was an interruption at 5-love while you were leading.  The game started for a very short while.  Did it have to be so? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  I don't believe we should have started again.  The conditions were not very good.  Even during warming up it was raining a little, and it was difficult to get back into it.  It's true that during the past half hour it was not raining very much, but after the conditions became worse.  And for me, it was very difficult to hit the ball hard. 

Q.  Given your injury, do you need a long warm-up? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yes.  But it's rather the conditions on the court which were very difficult for me.  I had problems hitting hard and winning points.  He had less difficulty than I had. 

Q.  Did you want to stop at 1-love? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  I even believe we shouldn't have started the third set, but they decided we had to play and wait for it to rain cats and dogs.  And this is what we waited for (laughing).  It's a bit of a pity, but my week was positive and I had two good sets today. 

Q.  Did it ruin your spirits?  It's really rotten to play in such bad conditions. 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yes, it's never pleasant, but you have to deal with it.  In the end, the conditions were a bit better.  It was heavy, but it was a lot better.  But that's the way it is.  There are tournaments where you have to play with those type of conditions and you have to adapt.  He was in the same condition I was. 

Q.  When you analyze the first and the second set, what do you say? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  In the first set he was in the court.  I was hitting the ball, but not strong enough.  I was playing shorter than he was.  Therefore, he put me down.  In the second I was able to play deeper.  I played one meter deeper in each shot, and I was in the court.  Against such a player, a very good clay courter, you have to try to dominate the rally.  Otherwise, it's very difficult. 

Q.  Do you believe that at 5-love if the conditions had been different and if you had continued, you would really have had the match in your hands? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  It's difficult to say.  Maybe he would have let down the first two games and afterwards he would have come back into the match.  But it would have been difficult to win anyway, even without interruption. 

Q.  During the rain delay, what did you do to keep warm? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  We went back to the locker rooms and it was quite warm in there.  We didn't know whether we were going to play again or not because it was raining so hard.  We were waiting.  Afterwards, I had someone help me warm up my thigh.  I got strapped.  I did a bit of warming up. 

Q.  Is it almost cured? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Cured, not quite.  But it's good.  But I'm not 100% yet. 

Q.  Do you believe you learned something in this tournament because of your injury?  Do you think it will change your way of playing? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yes, maybe.  Yes.  I'll try to stay relaxed, as I was here, to keep playing on clay, hitting my first serve very hard.  Not always playing first serve and second serve, but hitting harder on the first serve.  But I have to keep relaxed, because it's because of that I played well this week. 

Q.  You are going to Barcelona.  Is it good to have two tournaments in a row given the situation with your thigh?  Would you have preferred to have one week off between the two? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  I would have preferred to have one week off, but I am registered. 

Q.  You are not in the draw in Barcelona. 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yes, I'm registered.  You didn't see well (laughing).  It's the quallies draw which came out (laughing). 

Q.  Do you know who you're playing? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  No.  They're doing the draw tomorrow.  I am registered, so I'm obligated to go. 

Q.  And afterwards? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  I'm going to the United States and I'm coming back afterwards in the middle of the week for the French Open. 

Q.  Can you draw a balance of the results of this week? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  I believe it's positive.  I played five good matches.  For a first tournament on clay, that's very positive.  I will have to continue that way. 

Q.  Aren't you surprised by the fact that you got used to clay very fast, knowing that you were not 100%?  Did you surprise yourself? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Especially in the first rounds, yes.  We had played Davis Cup two weeks ago, so clay was not so far away.  I don't have too much difficulty adapting to this surface, but it's a good thing to be able to adapt so fast and to play as well as I did. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT