TMS MONTE CARLO
April 19, 2002
Sebastien Grosjean
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  News about your leg? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  I've had an ultrasound again (laughing).  It was good results.  I'm moving better and better.  I was absolutely not bothered today.  Sometimes I have a bit of fear before hitting balls that are far from my reach, but I believe the main thing today was that the quality of my shots was good. 

Q.  Kuerten was injured last year, and he won. 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  It's super.  I hope I'll do the same.  We'll see. 

Q.  It's been two matches that you have destroyed your opponent's game. 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yes.  It's been twice that they've been missing more than usual.  There's also the fact that I'm very relaxed - more than in the beginning of the season.  And I play deeper.  I am more focused on every opportunity, and I go for it without hesitation.  This is also a possibility.  But I believe they also miss a little bit more.  Normally, Costa doesn't give away many points, and today he missed many shots given the fact that it was a match on clay. 

Q.  Last year your ankle injury gave you some time to rest, and you had a great end of the season. 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Well, I had to rest.  I had a cast.  I couldn't play. 

Q.  Are we going for the same scenario? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  I hope so.  I had difficulties.  Until Bercy I hadn't won many matches, but I wasn't playing too bad.  After the injuries, you feel more relaxed.  You try to enjoy yourself because you haven't played for a long time.  So I hope it's going to continue here and for the next tournaments. 

Q.  What happened before, during the first month of 2002? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  There was a total relaxing.  The end of the season was overloaded.  Mentally, I was out of it.  I started losing matches that I should have won.  So after that, you start thinking about it and you don't feel like a favorite when you go on to the court, and that also plays a role.  Since Key Biscayne with Eric, we said that I had to play as if I was an underdog.  Subconsciously, I then feel more relaxed.  Therefore, I play better.  That might be an explanation. 

Q.  Did you end up catching up with your basic preparation that you were not able to do in the beginning of the season? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yes, I worked quite a lot.  After Indian Wells I had almost ten days.  Then in Davis Cup we also had very heavy schedules, and this is good also.  But still I believe you need confidence and matches under your belt.  I worked a lot before coming here, but I didn't play any matches.  I went back to the basics for two weeks, and that was positive.  But after, you have to play the matches. 

Q.  Before starting all your matches you played here, did you think, "I'm not going to be able to finish them"? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yes.  I was really relaxed.  I knew I had to enjoy myself and go for it without hesitation.  And the quality of my shots was quite good.  I played well  - deep on both sides.  I didn't let myself be put down by the other one.  I'm running less, and I need to keep that quality of shots for the other tournaments. 

Q.  Your serve seemed particularly efficient and consistent during the whole tournament.  You also had a lot of success with your dropshots. 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  I often use dropshots on clay.  I'm pleasantly surprised by my serve.  I'm serving well.  I've been quite consistent since the beginning of the tournament.  Maybe I'm concentrating more in order to get some cheap points or to start off the point the right way.  That's a solution also to keep for the rest of the season - service and concentration. 

Q.  Are you surprised by your level of game given your injury? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yes, of course.  One has to continue to play as well.  I believe it's also a pleasure to be on the court and to try to enjoy every hit I make.  Maybe that's what I was missing most since the beginning of the season. 

Q.  Tomorrow, are you going to have the same tactics against Ferrero? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yes.  I have no reason to be under pressure.  I will just enjoy myself, do what I've been doing since the beginning, going to the net as soon as I get a short ball. 

Q.  The first two days you seemed a bit out of shape for playing a third set.  Do you believe today you have the guts to do it? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  The day before yesterday I was tired.  Yesterday I could have continued after the second set.  But today I feel a lot better. 

Q.  Five sets in two days, are you afraid of that? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  It's difficult to think about a five-setter.  Before, I have to play a match against Ferrero, so I'm not thinking about the finals at all. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT