TMS MONTE CARLO
April 18, 2002
Sebastien Grosjean
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  Would you have been able to play a third set? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Maybe, because the first one was very fast.  He was making many errors, and I didn't really have to run.  This was good for me.  But I was not too tired in the end.  In fact, it was bothering me less than yesterday.  I felt good on the court.  I was still a bit bothered, but less than yesterday.  I could have started that third set, whatever happened, and I think I could have continued also. 

Q.  Were you surprised by the way he played in the first set, anyway?  Because in the second...? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yes, because I saw him playing Davis Cup.  Compared to his two matches in Davis Cup and even his first two rounds here, I didn't think he was going to make so many mistakes  - especially in the first set.  I took all the points.  It was good for me to win the first set fast.  On the contrary, in the second, he made a few mistakes but a lot less. 

Q.  In such a case do you think, "He knows that I have a handicap, and he's thinking too much about it"? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yes, maybe he knew it and it disturbed him a bit in the beginning.   At the start of the match, he attempted a few shots.  He was hitting all the points instead of trying to make me move.  He made some mistakes.  After, in the second, he was missing less.  He was trying to make me run a little bit more, and he played better in that second set.  Tactically, he played differently. 

Q.  Does it help you to play more relaxed? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yes, because I am more relaxed, and then I can hit the ball well.  I know that even if the shot comes back, I cannot even go to the ball, so I just hit relaxed and it helps me to play better.  I move less.  I feel the ball better. 

Q.  Maybe this makes you more focused?  You are more on guard because you know you have limited physical means?

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yes, I'm more focused on my serve because I need to have good points with my serve and to have easy shots to hit in the first points of the rallies to avoid long rallies precisely. 

Q.  Paradoxically, this can help to improve your preparation and to make you put your game together faster? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yes.  It's good for the confidence already.  Knowing that you are not 100 percent physically but that you play well and you win matches is quite important for the rest of the clay court season.  When I came here I didn't think I was going to win one single match because I felt really handicapped.  But since I've been here the medical service has been very good.  I was very well treated, and every day I feel an improvement.  It's, therefore, positive. 

Q.  Are you more optimistic about the rest of the tournament than you were yesterday? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yeah, because today I almost felt no bother at all from my lesion  - a little bit in the end.  But compared with yesterday when I knew that if I had lost the second set I would have to stop, today, I was more optimistic, less tense with my adductor. 

Q.  Against Costa you will have to run. 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  I will avoid it.  I know he plays with topspin, heavy shots on both sides.  He's going to try to put me outside of the court.  It will be up to me not to give him angles in order to avoid that.  I will have to try to hit hard. 

Q.  What are you doing for treatment after each match? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yesterday I did mesotherapy.  Otherwise, I'll have ultrasounds, relax.  I don't know what else. 

Q.  You don't practice at all? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yes, I hit a quarter of an hour or 20 minutes in the morning without moving. 

Q.  When you step on to the court, you calculate all your risks?  Are you warned about the risks? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  I was warned that there would be a risk, but I am managing the situation.  When I'm sliding, I don't put my legs too far apart.  When the ball is very far, I just don't go.  If there's a lesion, there's a small risk to make it worse.  But I am very clear on the court and, therefore, I don't believe it's going to get worse.  And if I feel I'm taking too much risk, I stop. 

Q.  Were you warned that in the long-term for the rest of the clay court season and the French Open you might have problems? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yes.  But one week ago or ten days ago the lesion was four centimeters long, whereas now it's just one centimeter.  Therefore, there's an improvement.  On the court, I try not to force too much on each point. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT