TMS MONTE CARLO
April 17, 2002
Sebastien Grosjean
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  May we have some news about your thigh. 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  I had another ultrasound, and it's better than last week.  The lesion is still there, but it didn't become worse since Sunday, and that's good.  It's on the right track.  But the lesion is still there. 

Q.  Did you suffer at the end of the match? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yes.  It was a bit more difficult, especially that he was playing to my forehand all the time and I had problems running to the ball and coming back.  So it was more difficult, but I tried to stay in it. 

Q.  Your serve was particularly efficient in the end of the match. 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Fortunately  - because I was in a difficult situation at 3-3 and 4-4, it was becoming more and more difficult  - I served well.  Fortunately. 

Q.  We heard you on TV with Patrice Dominguez and you said, "I'm exhausted."  A third set would have been possible for you or no? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Indeed it would have been very difficult.  I had problems moving.  In the end I became a bit lucky.  He missed one or two volleys in the tiebreaker, which were important points.  And afterwards, I served well.  But it was becoming more and more difficult. 

Q.  Dr.  Montalvan was reluctant for you to play this tournament. 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  On this type of court I am able to manage the situation properly.  I avoid sliding, sprinting.  I feel where the limit stands, and that's good.  And, also, I am not feeling bad.  I am feeling the ball well.  Tomorrow, if I feel it's getting worse, I will stop.  Otherwise, I will play the match. 

Q.  Are you sure you're going to go on to the court tomorrow? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  In any case, I will play the beginning of the match.  If it becomes more and more difficult, maybe I will stop.  We'll see... 

Q.  For the time being, it hasn't changed? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yes.  But, in fact, it's better than Sunday.  On Sunday, after half an hour or three-quarters of an hour I was feeling something bothering me.  But I was not forcing it very much.  But now it's better.  Yesterday I was able to play without it really bothering me.  Today, a bit more.  But it didn't become worse.  Therefore, it's on the right track.  But to play in a Masters Series, maybe it's not enough.  We'll see tomorrow. 

Q.  Against Novak tomorrow, what kind of chance do you give yourself to play and to finish the match? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Whatever happens, I'll play.  As to finish it, we'll see.  It's difficult to give the number of chances I have, but at least I have one.  That's clear. 

Q.  The problem with him is that he gives away less points than the two former opponents you had. 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  That's absolutely clear (laughing).  Maybe he will make me run more.  Although in the end of this match, Hrbaty was making me run more than in the beginning.  He was missing less.  But the truth is that maybe Novak plays slower than Hrbaty.  But on the other hand, he mixes it up more and he has a greater margin of security in his shots.  So I might have to run a bit more, but I will also have more time to hit. 

Q.  Do you feel you have better chances against him on clay than on a fast surface like in Pau? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  If he plays like in Pau, it's going to be very difficult because he played two excellent matches.  He was playing very well.  We'll see. 

Q.  Will the rest of your program be changed because of your injury or no? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  I don't know yet.  I have to see how I will be tomorrow and the following days.  If it improves correctly and I feel no bother, there's no reason to change.  But if I'm still bothered, then we'll make a decision. 

Q.  Isn't it a bit risky to pull on your injury every day? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  No, because it didn't become worse and I'm managing the situation.  I am not going to extremes.  I am not doing big sliding or big sprints.  I'm managing the situation on the court.  When I know I cannot reach the ball, I don't really try to go.  So, no, I don't think so.  Otherwise, the doctors would tell me to stop.  There is a little lesion, but it is not big. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT