TMS MONTE CARLO
April 16, 2002
Sebastien Grosjean
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  For a first match on clay, he's not the kind of opponent who allows you to put your game together.

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  He had an easy first round.  He was hitting very hard, making the point, the mistakes also.  It was very difficult to stay in the match. 

Q.  What satisfied you personally?  What part of your game on clay satisfied you? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  I didn't make many errors.  Patience was rewarding today.  He made many unforced errors today which helped me a lot, it's true.  But it was not easy.  The conditions were difficult  - very heavy, humid.  These are not ideal conditions to play a good match. 

Q.  And the atmosphere? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  People stayed there.  That was very nice.  And they really encouraged me well.  It was very cold.  You were inside, but outside it was cold (laughing).  The changeovers were not easy, but you have to do with those kind of circumstances. 

Q.  Where are you now?  When did you start playing again exactly? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  About half an hour, quarter of an hour on Sunday, and yesterday I hit for half an hour, three-quarters of an hour.  It's not much.  Today I played four (hours). 

Q.  You have no pain at all? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yes, it still bothers me.  It's rather when I play my forehand.  I can't really accelerate.  Everything which is violent bothers me.  It's not a real pain, though.  I did another ultrasound on Sunday, and now it's rather the attachment ligament than the adductors themselves.  But it's in the process of going away, so it's okay.  It's better than last Monday when it was difficult for me just to walk. 

Q.  Does that impose on you some kind of treatment before and after the matches?  Do you have to have a long massage? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yes, and I have to stay sometimes without moving so my hips stay in place.  I need ultrasounds and electricity. 

Q.  What side is it? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Left. 

Q.  It's not risky to play this tournament? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  When I came here, I did another ultrasound and the doctors here said it was okay but that I shouldn't pull too hard on it on one particular shot trying to run too fast.  But as far as the adductors are concerned, there's nothing left in the shoulder, it's positive.  It's more at the attachment ligament that it bothers me a little. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT