TMS MONTE CARLO
April 20, 2001
Sebastien Grosjean
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.  
 

Q.  For your first tournament on clay did you have a precise objective?
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN: Not really.  I came here to put my game together to try to have a good tournament, but I didn't expect to go very far.  But I was trying to have good matches. It's true that now that I'm in the semis this is something I didn't envision in the beginning.  Plus, I'm playing better and better since the first match.  Therefore, it's encouraging for the rest of the tournament.  
 

Q.  You had time to see Roger play in Neuchatel.  Did you use what you saw there?
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN: No.  It's totally different on a very fast surface.  It has nothing to do with here.  He's a very good player.  We are starting to know each other, I'm starting to know how he plays. Neuchatel is not really a reference because the surface was very fast.  But I saw him play yesterday against Arnaud, and I saw he was playing very well; that he liked to finish the points in two or three shots.  Therefore, I tried to force him to play a long time to try to make him miss.  
 

Q.  How do you assess yourself on that match?
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN: It was a solid match.  I tried to make him play the most possible, to have a high percentage, to break him today.  As soon as I had an opening to go up to the net, I tried to hit the ball so that he wouldn't impose his game on me and come to the net.  
 

Q.  Can we consciously say, "I need to have a good percentage," and have an influence on it, or else it's just rather the serve is there or not?
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN: On clay it's quite important to have a good percentage, to try to be inside the court at the first shot, and to dominate the rally.  Because when you are behind the baseline, it's difficult physically.  You run more and you cannot stop the traveling of the ball.  Therefore, you have to run further.  Today, I served well so I was able to put my game together after my serve.  
 

Q.  When you said you were not expecting anything special coming here, only to put up your game, now do you have more precise ambitions in your mind?
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN: In the semis you can always hope to win the tournament.  I will try to prepare well for the match tomorrow against Hicham.  It's going to be a very difficult match.  Physically, it's going to be very tough. After tomorrow evening, if I won, maybe I will think about the final.  
 

Q.  Against a player like Hicham, who gives no rhythm, how can we play tactically?
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN: I didn't discuss it with Eric yet.  We will talk about it tonight.  He doesn't give a lot of rhythm, but he accelerates the ball when it's needed and he also goes to the net.  He mixes it up pretty much on the court.  He knows how to do everything.  Therefore, it's difficult to put him off balance.  
 

Q.  You said it was going to be a difficult match physically.  Where are you as far as fitness is concerned? Are you still bothered by your problems with the shoulder?
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN: No, it doesn't bother me anymore.  I have treatment every day, and it's better and better.  Since yesterday and today I have no more pain.  
 

Q.  In order to serve like you served today, you need to have a good shoulder.
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN: I was not serving very hard, but it was okay.  My shoulder is holding up.  
 

Q.  Did you expect more resistance from Federer on your serve?  You were never really in danger, only two break points that you erased each time. 
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN: The beginning of the match was determining against him.  He likes to be dominating, to be immediately ahead in the score.  And as soon as it becomes difficult, sometimes he gives up or he fights less than other players.  Therefore, I had to be up from the beginning to try to keep my advance. 
 

Q.  Did you feel he was nervous?
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN: I don't know if he was nervous, but he was rushing a little bit on his shots when he was trying to make a winner too fast.  On clay, you must be patient.  
 

Q.  In the semis of a big tournament, do you play better?
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN: I also want to play well in those tournaments.  I try to prepare myself for those events because for the ranking, these tournaments are the ones which count.  You have to play the Masters Series and the Grand Slams to hope to be among the Top 10 at the end of the year, so you must take those tournaments very seriously and play well.  
 

Q.  You have less pleasure playing on clay than on hardcourts?
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN: Yes, because it's more difficult physically.  I don't like that very much.  When there's the French Open, you want to make an effort to play well on clay, but I prefer to play on faster surfaces.  I enjoy it more.  
 

Q.  Does it take away part of the pleasure to go far in a tournament when Agassi or Rafter are not there?
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN: No.  Since the beginning I played well.  My level of game is present; therefore, I'm not very much aware of the players who retired in the beginning of the tournament, thinking maybe if they had been there I wouldn't be where I am.  I don't look at the other players.  
 

Q.  On clay, patience is a determining element.  Do you work on that in practice?
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN: Yes, and I'm trying not to make mistakes.  As soon as I warm up, I try not to make mistakes.  It's important on clay because to face the opponent, you have to try to be patient to try to play deep balls, to hit well in order to avoid that the opponent be ahead of you.  
 

Q.  You only played Hicham once, but you practice with him often?
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN: Before the tournament I hit once with him.  Otherwise, no, I rarely practiced with him.  
 

Q.  Is he one of your good friends?
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN: Yes, we get along very well.  
 

Q.  And does that bother you for the match?
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN: No.  
 

Q.  The fact that you grew up in Marseille when you were young, was it important to come one day to Monte-Carlo to see the matches?
 
SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN: When I was in Marseille, I was rather thinking about the French Open.  But of course Monte-Carlo also was making me dream.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT