TMS MONTE CARLO
April 19, 2001
Sebastien Grosjean
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  First question, please. 


Q.  In the beginning it was a bit difficult, but afterwards it seemed you got the ball rolling. 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN: Yes, but I don't know if it's me who didn't start well or if it's him who started well.  He was hitting well during the three, four games.  He was missing nothing and playing very long, very deep, and I couldn't really put my game together.  At 3-love, there were three shots where I hit harder in the ball.  And after, the match turned around. 


Q.  Still, it's a good test for you on clay.  From the baseline you were very solid.  You accelerated when it was necessary, and you were good at the net.  Does this give you confidence?

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN: Yes, it's a good win.  He had won against two good players before, and I knew it would not be easy but I fought well.  I started having good feelings at the net during the match, and it finished well for me. 


Q.  Are you happy with your game going forward to the net?

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN: In the beginning, it was difficult because he was playing deeper than I was, and I couldn't dominate the rally.  But as soon as I started playing deeper, I was able to step into the court.  It was a good quality of hitting from the baseline, and you have to work on that kind of thing to have a good season. 


Q.  You don't have problems hitting a ball that some other players find very heavy?

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN: In fact, they are very hard.  It's better when they are new.  During the first two or three games it was all right.  But as soon as we started having longer rallies, it was more difficult to hit the ball.  In fact, you have to lower your tension on your racquet not to feel that problem anymore. 


Q.  Did you change your tension since the first match?

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN: Yes, now I'm at 23 kilos. 


Q.  And before?

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN: I started at 25.  But the balls are very hard. 


Q.  Rumor said that you had a pain in the shoulder.  Is that true?

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN: I felt a little pain yesterday.  It still hurt a little bit this morning, but I didn't want to serve too hard so that I wouldn't injure myself. 


Q.  Did you feel it during the match?

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN: No, because little by little the shoulder warmed up, and therefore I wasn't feeling anything anymore. 


Q.  What do you think of Federer in the next round?

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN: It's going to be a difficult match.  He plays very well.  He played a good match against Arnaud.  It will be a very difficult match because he's starting to play well on clay also, and I was playing well indoors before.  It's a good test.  I will have to play well to impose myself.  I want to stop him from putting his game together or letting him win a point in two shots. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT