TMS MONTE CARLO
April 17, 2001
Sebastien Grosjean
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  First question, please.


Q.  Good doubles.

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN: Not bad.  Yes, it's fun.  We returned well.  It was nice playing there. 


Q.  It was not an easy first round with the lack of practice on clay behind you.  How did you negotiate this situation?

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN: It was a good match in general, quite solid.  It was not obvious.  We have to get used to the surface again, but I came here early to try to get used to the surface and to get back my instincts.  And I'm very satisfied with my first match. 


Q.  Are you surprised that those instincts came back so quickly?

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN: Yes.  He didn't play very well.  He made some mistakes that he doesn't do normally.  I was watching my game, it was not bad.  I served well in general.  I had a good feeling on the court, also. 


Q.  You were a bit scared in the second set when he served for the set?

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN: Yes.  I knew that any way there was another set to play afterwards.  He had a better second set, and I started being more aggressive and I was able to break him and to break him again at 5-all.  It was a good serving game. 


Q.  Is it a good memory for you that you beat him in the semis in Key Biscayne?

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN: Yes.  It's not a comparable match over there because the surface is totally different.  But tactically, I played well today. 


Q.  Now the draw is quite open.  Safin is out.  You are in the highest part of the draw.  Maybe you have a good shot at it. 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN: I'm not watching that far.  I'm playing Ulihrach tomorrow.  He's a good player who plays very fast on both sides, so it will not be easy.  I will have to concentrate on that match, and after that we'll see. 


Q.  What is the feeling playing without Emmanuel on the side of the court?

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN: There is Eric who knows me better.  I worked for a long time with him. 


Q.  You don't want to express the reasons why...?

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN: I said there were personal reasons. 


Q.  I was asking Arnaud how it felt to be alone.  He said it's not bad. 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN: I am not alone.  I ask Eric to take care of me a little bit.  We had a week preparation.  I am not alone.  He knows me very well because we worked together with Arnaud in the past, and I'm not the only one in the tournament. 


Q.  Did you do things alone recently? He thought it was not too bad to be alone, it was like a new discovery. 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN: No, I've rarely been alone these past years.  I was always with a coach, so I don't know how it feels otherwise. 


Q.  When did you start working on clay again?

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN: Last week.  I started hitting twice on Tuesday and then I came down here.  But here I played only once on Wednesday. 


Q.  The balls are like wood here?

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN: Yes, they are very hard.  It's very difficult to make the ball go forward, because they are quite heavy.  Maybe it's also due to the fast surface.  I don't know what the other players think about it, but we have the impression that it is quite difficult to make winners. 


Q.  In spite of the hard balls and the fast surface, you still played well on clay after very little preparation.  You played a good match.  There are quite a lot of players who say it is practically impossible, and you proved the contrary. 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN: Well, I had a whole week of practicing on clay.  It's quite a lot already.  I played in February on clay ten days for the Davis Cup.  It's a surface on which I was playing when I was younger.  So I came here early to get used to the conditions.  The balls were quite heavy, but the court is fast.  So, therefore, the game can adjust, and it's easy to play well on this surface because we see some very fast-court players who play well also.  The fact of having heavy balls and a fast surface is a little advantage for every player.  There shouldn't be any problems. 


Q.  This balances the effort?

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN: Generally speaking, that's it. 


Q.  Do you think match after match you will be more aggressive?  In the beginning, we try to control the ball because we lack preparation. 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN: I don't know how I'm going to play tomorrow. 


Q.  But not only tomorrow, did you control the points today?

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN: No, I tried to play a good match and I tried to win.  We'll see what will happen in the following days. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT