AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 26, 2001
Sebastien Grosjean
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Questions for Sebastien. 


Q.  Arnaud described the match as a small miracle.  How would you describe it? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  I don't know.  I think I starting well, and then Arnaud keep fighting, starting to play better than the first set.  So after it was good fighting.  But he came back and he played better at the end.

Q.  How has that left you feeling?

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  I'm really tired.  No, I had a chance, of course.  I think I'm not losing the match at 5-4; I lose the match at 4-2, Love-40.  Then he came back and he's starting to think he can win.  He played better and better.  I was, you know, thinking of many break balls. 

Q.  You were thinking of those?

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yeah, I was thinking I have breakpoints.

Q.  And you weren't able to concentrate on them?

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yeah, keep concentrating, but it was tough because, you know, I think I had the chance.  After, you know, I played not as well I played in the first two sets, and he's starting to play, you know, much better, you know, starting to think on his victory. 

Q.  Do you think you will regret those breakpoints and the match in general for some time to come? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  What do you mean? 

Q.  Will you regret not taking those breakpoints? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yeah.  I missed two backhands on return, and he make a winner.  I have the chance, you know.  He served two second serve.  I didn't take a chance.  After, you know, the game change.

Q.  Were you starting to run out of energy a little bit in that last set? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yeah, I was tired at the end.  But, you know, I start feeling something in my legs and back in the fourth also.  I try, you know, to keep my game, you know, to stay in the game.  At the end it was really tough for me because I was tired, but he was, you know, playing better and better. 

Q.  How difficult was it for you to play a good friend of yours? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yeah, I think we play a pretty good game today because I didn't expect to play as well today.  For sure it's tough because I know him very well, since many years.  It's tough, but on the court we have to forget and, you know, play a game. 

Q.  Every loss feels bad, but does this feel worse than others you've had?

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Not really because, you know, I had a goal when I came here, you know, make quarters or semis in a Slam, so is good.  Of course, I had the chance to go in final.  But, no, I think we have to learn on all lost and everything.  It's going to be good, this tournament, for me in the future. 

Q.  Do you still believe that you can come back and reach a Grand Slam final in the future?

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  I hope so.  I think I have to, you know, keep working and practice, you know, improve my game.  Of course, I think I can, you know, maybe reach another semis or final. 

Q.  What did Arnaud say to you at the end or in the locker room? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  No, we did not talk.  I just say, "Good luck for the final."  But nothing, we didn't talk.  We going to talk tonight.  Nothing special.

Q.  Do you think he can beat Agassi?

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  I hope so.  Yeah, I hope he's not too tired.  No, I think he has a chance.  You know, if final, we never know.  He's playing well since, you know, a few months.  You know, he thinking he can, you know, win a tournament like this.  I think he can win, yeah, of course. 

Q.  Will you watch?

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  I will be in the plane.  I'm leaving.  I want to go home. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT