ATP MASTER SERIES MADRID
October 21, 2006
Sebastien Grosjean
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  For what reason were you in total control of the game? 
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  For my style of game to play against Berdych is good.  I like to hit a lot of slice, change speeds, play high, low, hard.  For the Czech players I know that's really tough.  But my serve was really good today, and I was in control of every game that I served. 

 Q.  Do you think that the constant booing of Berdych affected his game? 
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  Constant what? 

 Q.  Do you think that his game was affected by the booing because he was booed every time? 
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  Maybe.  I think it's tough to go in and get that kind of welcome from the crowd of 10,000 people.  I think it's tough.  Maybe he wasn't careful yesterday, but that was really good for me today. 

 Q.  How do you rate your game right now?  Do you think you're playing your best game right now? 
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  It's strange.  The first match I didn't feel I was really well.  Today I played an unbelievable match today.  The last two months I didn't feel like I won, but I won anyway.  I was really lucky that I won in the third round for me because that was really good for me.  I was feeling tired.  I was asleep like 45 minutes before the match.  So that give me a big break to stay in the tournament. 

 Q.  Could you tell us a little bit about your relationship with your new coach? 
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  I've been working with him for five months, I think.  The first day we started to improve my net game, and it's really important.  I don't think too much this week because I don't feel like the ball is really fast today.  I'm used to more.  But my back hand is improving a lot.  I don't get panicked when the ball comes to my back hand.  I can still play a long point from that side. 

 Q.  Do you work mentally on your game with your coach or -- 
FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  If you are in good shape, if you're playing good, if you feel the ball, if you enjoy the match, that's the best mental training. 

 Q.  And tomorrow it's Federer.  You've lost every time.  So you have to do something different, I suppose? 
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  Not really different.  Last time when we played he was playing -- I lost the first in 20 minutes.  He played unbelievable one set.  After I got into the match it was close.  But again I can't wait.  I have to go in, I have to hit the ball, and I have to win the match.  I have to go for it.  I can't wait. 

 Q.  How important was the weight loss that you made earlier this year?  Does it help you losing weight? 
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  Oh, yeah.  You asked me the other day the same thing. 

 Q.  It has many effects, doesn't it, with preparing for shots? 
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  Yeah.  Because I feel lighter on the court.  You use less energy.  So you can play longer.  You can still run. 
 The important thing is sometimes you lose weight, and you lose power.  But it was not my case I think. 

 Q.  Does it mean you prepare earlier for the shots? 
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  For what? 

 Q.  You prepare for the shots earlier? 
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  No, not for the shot.  For the long match when you have to play long points, you recover better between every point. 

 Q.  Will stamina be important in a five set match tomorrow, do you think? 
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  Absolutely.  I've had two tough weeks, and tomorrow five sets.  I played five sets one week ago.  I didn't win in any set.  But tomorrow is different.  Every match, every week is different.  Sometimes it's better to play five sets especially in these kinds of matches. 

 Q.  Does he have any weaknesses? 
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  For me? 

 Q.  Does Roger have any weaknesses? 
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  Not really.  He may have some really small ones, but like I just said a few minutes ago, I have to go for the match.  I can't wait like what happened with Roger.  If you wait, he'll pass over you, and that's it.  So I'm going to try to pass him. 
 (Questions in Spanish) 

 Q.  I've seen you play a lot.  I guess this has been your best match. 
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  It's been an even match, a short match.  I served well.  Maybe, yes, maybe it has been one of the best matches. 

 Q.  Passing shot, everything you did was great. 
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  Because this type of game suits me.  His type of game suited me perfectly.  My type of game made him uncomfortable.  That was my goal. 
 Obviously I served well.  The slice balls went well.  Because the match I played before I needed to defend a lot.  But not this time. 

 Q.  Tough points were fantastically played by you.  You didn't lose any points. 
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  Because when you serve like I served, you can keep calm.  When he serves, you're comfortable. 

 Q.  Are you encouraged towards the Masters? 
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  Yeah.  Maybe.  Who knows?  I don't want to think about that now.  If I want to go to the Masters, I need to win a match. 
 If I start concentrating on many things at the same time, I won't be concentrating for the match. 

 Q.  You're very very happy? 
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  Yes.  Very happy. 

 Q.  Atmosphere was very strange for an ATP tournament.  It seemed like the Davis Cup. 
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  I think it's very strange to go into a stadium as Berdych did and have the crowd against you like they were.  10,000 people shouting at you.  I feel thankful towards the crowd in Madrid. 

 Q.  Latin mentality in tennis, does inspiration exist?  You were very concentrated today.  What would happen if you found a crowd like Berdych found today against you? 
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  It is difficult.  What I like to play most is the Davis Cup because the crowd forms a very, very important part of the match.  Today I've been fortunate because I had the crowd with me.  I really like people to participate in the game. 

 Q.  Your slice was important in the match? 
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  Yes. 

 Q.  Tomorrow against Federer, any strategy? 
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  To go out and win the match.  But I cannot stop and see what happens with him.  He's a great player, and his match is not open. 

 Q.  We come from Mexico.  You know, there's a crisis in our country.  We're asking several tennis players what our country needs to do when it goes through a crisis like this. 
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  You have great players in Mexico.  You have Alejandro Hernandez and others.  Maybe much more of him was expected.  You have the altitude in Mexico.  When you go to other tournaments, they're at sea level, things become difficult.  It would be important to have a school at sea level and train kids at sea level and not in the high altitude maybe. 

 Q.  I do not want to ask you about tennis.  Maybe about football.  Are you going to watch the match tomorrow, the Real Madrid match, for tomorrow's results? 
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  Yeah.  I hope Real Madrid wins.  Love-2, love-3, it doesn't matter.  The important thing is that they win.  Thanks. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT