AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 25, 2006
Sebastien Grosjean
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  Was that the toughest five sets you've played?

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  I don't know, but one of the toughest, yeah, for sure.  Almost five hours and, you know, many rallies.  It was tough physically.  But I just felt a little bit tired like maybe last two or three games.  I mean, it was a pretty good game. 

Q.  That last set was 1 hour and 36 minutes.  What was it like physically and mentally? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Mentally it was tough because I had twice the break in the fifth.  Especially after winning, you know, 7-6 the fourth, you know, I'm a little bit disappointed the way I serve in the fifth set. 

Q.  Can you explain what happened when you called for the referee after he threw his racquet.  What happened? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yeah, I don't know.  I didn't know you are allowed to throw your racquet when you play, so I ask the referee.  He said he has to go with the call of the umpire.  And the umpire said I hit the ball.  But it doesn't matter.  I mean, he was on the way to the volley.  If, you know, a ball drop from my pocket, I mean, we replay the point, or even the hat.  Anything happen on the court, we replay the point.  But didn't happen like that.  He gave the point right away.

Q.  Were you asking for a let?

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yeah.  I mean, a let.  At least a let.  I mean, I think I deserve a let and we play the point.  I mean, that's the minimum.  And after, maybe he has to give me the point because he's not allowed to throw his racquet, you know, if the point is not over. 

Q.  Nicolas said he was expecting to lose the point. 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yeah, but it doesn't matter.  It doesn't matter if he's expecting to lose the point or win the point.  You can't throw the racquet.

Q.  Did the racquet end up on your side of the net?

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yes, it did.

Q.  You went on to hold serve in that game.  Did it have any kind of effect on you?

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Not really.  Not really.  Because I still focused even after that bad decision, I think.  You know, I hold.  I had two game points in 7-6 after. 

Q.  Did Nicolas apologize to you after?

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  I don't know.  Not in the locker room for sure, no.

Q.  He made reference in his press conference to being a friend of yours, good friends.  Is that the way?

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  The referee is a friend of mine?  Not really, no. 

Q.  No, Kiefer said he was a friend of yours.  Do you still feel that way after what happened during the match today?

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  I mean, "friend" is a big word, I think.  No, I think I was a little bit disappointed in, you know, the way he throw the racquet, you know, on such a big point.  So even if he was expecting to lose the point, I mean, that's not the way it is.  But I stay focused in the game, you know, try to forget this point. 

Q.  Was it a case of you felt that you were getting very tired in the last set that swung the match away from you in the end?  How did you see the pivotal points? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  No, I had many chances in the fifth, for sure.  But he's good returner, so is tough to hold, especially when you break early in the set.  But after, he was a bit better at the end.

Q.  The stats were on your side, but you lost the match.  How do you feel about that?

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  I didn't see the stats, so I can't tell you about that.  At the end, you know, when you win 8-6 in the fifth, it doesn't really matter, the stat. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT