AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 23, 2006
Sebastien Grosjean
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  How would you sum up your match today?  It looked relatively easy on paper.  Obviously it wasn't on court. 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yeah, especially when you play a Frenchman for the first time.  It wasn't that easy, I would say, because the first set was really important.  I hit two great shots, you know, to win the first set.  Then was easier for me winning the first set.  Then he makes a lot of mistakes, yeah. 

Q.  What made his game hard to read in the first set?

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  He was hitting the ball better the first set, you know, more consistent I will say.  I win the game in 6-5, and after he was a little bit down.  A little bit.  You know, I keep putting pressure on his serve.  I was returning well.  He didn't have a lot of free points on his serve. 

Q.  Kiefer next.  What is your record like against him?

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yeah, Kiefer.  I don't know.  I've played him like maybe four, five times.  Maybe it's 2-2, 3-2.  I don't know.  It's close.  He's going to be tough.  Kiefer is an aggressive player, you know, put a lot of pressure on the other guy, especially on the return.  He comes a lot to the net.  So is going to be a tough match, but is great.

Q.  You seem to have moved through the draw without a lot of attention from the tournament.  Where do you feel you're placed in terms of the whole tournament now?

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  In quarters (smiling). 

Q.  Do you feel your game... 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yeah, the first match I was playing well.  Since that, I keep playing a good tennis, so I'm really happy with my game.  I want to be more consistent with my first serve, to have more free points.  I'm in quarters.  You know, I have a day off tomorrow to keep improving my game. 

Q.  So many Frenchmen in the men's singles draw this year.  What is your impression of the growth of men's tennis in France?

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  It's great for the French Federation also to see so many players.  We have young players coming.  Also in the junior can play very well on the tour after.  So is great for the French tennis to have more players for Davis Cup also.  I mean, it start to be a lot popular again in France. 

Q.  Why is that? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  I mean, tennis was always popular.  It's the second sport in France.  Having a Slam like the French Open, there is a lot of attention on the tennis in France, so there is many young kids want to play tennis. 

Q.  Do you think we could see another Grand Slam winner?

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  Yeah, we have great players, yeah, coming.  Who knows, yeah.  That's the goal of the French player and the French Federation. 

Q.  Do you find it odd to play another Frenchman in a big match like that? 

SEBASTIEN GROSJEAN:  I mean, it's never easy.  You know, I used to it now.  I do better against French player.  I have a better record now since two, three years.  It's never easy.  Now because there are many French players, I have to play a lot, yeah. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT