WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC: ROUND TWO
March 12, 2006
Paquin Estrada
Rodrigo Lopez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.  This is question Paquin Estrada.  After your very good offense with Canada, now you have only one run with Korea I'd.  Like to know if you discussed anything with your batters and, what did they tell you what?  Was different this time with Korea? 
 PAQUIN ESTRADA:  I think we have to GIVE the credit to the pitch when there's a pitch or good pitchers there's no offense.  I think our team has a very good offense but, that's the way it is.  That's the way baseball is and, it was two-one. 
 Q.  I'd like to ask questions to both Manager Estrada and Rodrigo.  What kind of preparation have you done to prepare for this game against Korea, and what is your impression on Korean team and who do you the think the most impressive player among Korean team members? 
 PAQUIN ESTRADA:  Well, it's very difficult to prepare for from one day to the next.  We really didn't have much time, but we observed what we could and with the references that we had, and we did whatever we could do to help. 
 I was very impressed by the shortstop.  I think that he caught everything.  He was very well-placed, and he was very fast.  And that hit, that was the hit that changed the fate of the game. 
 Q.  This question is for Rodrigo.  You had very good control with the United States.  There was only one homerun.  I'd like you to comment to us what the difference were.  What was the difference in this game in starting? 
 RODRIGO LOPEZ:  I think there were several factors that influenced this.  First, the cold climate.  The climate, it was cold out there.  And second, that I wasn't very familiar with the players. 
 As Paquin had said, it's very difficult to prepare from one day to the next.  We got a video this morning, but it was very difficult to read the batters.  I had 40 pitches in the first inning.  I pretty much ran out of gas as you said. 
 Earlier there was more control than the others.  But if you watch a video, you will see the four or five batters.  That was good.  And then after that there was one foul after another. 
 Q.  My question is for Lopez.  The ball that you hit by Seung Yeop Lee, what type of ball it was?  And I notice there was a lot of foul balls from the two batters, so would that also affect the game? 
 RODRIGO LOPEZ:  Well, it was a change.  It was failed in timing.  I pitched low and out, and the batter reacted well.  He hit the ball well and it traveled well. 
 Q.  This is a question Paquin Estrada.  Once again, in the first game of the round the results are negative, are bad for Mexico.  And the teams are going to be tougher and tougher all the time.  Can you tell us how Team Mexico's feeling?  What their impressions are? 
 PAQUIN ESTRADA:  Yes.  As you said, as the competition goes on, the competition becomes tougher.  The best teams remain and the teams that have the best results, but we lost two-zero first then two-one. 
 As it goes on, maybe tomorrow we'll do better with the two games that we have left. 
 Q.  My question is for Paquin.  In the top of the 8th inning Miguel Ojeda led off the inning.  It looked like he was called out on strikes.  It looked like a questionable call.  Did you agree with that, the umpire's call, and how much did not getting the lead-off hitter -- I mean, how much could that have afforded a comeback?  Did that take a lot of wind out of your sails? 
 PAQUIN ESTRADA:  It's not a matter of whether or not I agree.  I have to accept that in baseball the umpire is part of the game.  And if he struck out, it's not whether or not I agree.  I have to support the player. 
 Q.  Question for Mr. Estrada.  Do you think Team Mexico was at a disadvantage over vis-a-vis Korea?  Korea had a week to prepare in Arizona, whereas you just got to see the video this morning.  
 PAQUIN ESTRADA:  Of course it's always good to have an advantage.  We tried to do the work the way we can.  All the teams, with one or two exceptions, had very little time to prepare in their organizations. 
 We had time, and at this level I believe -- at this point I believe that we are more prepared, and I think that we're beginning to see a difference.  I think that we are ready. 
 Q.  Yes.  But you struck out nine times. 
 PAQUIN ESTRADA:  Well, that's the way baseball is.  Maybe it would be a matter of striking out 15 times. 

 Q.  This is a question for Rodrigo.  You mentioned how the cold had affected your pitching.  Well, the forecast is that's going to be cold all week.  And now in your next game with Japan, Japan bats like Korea.  Will Mexico be able to adjust to this?  Will you be able to adjust in such a way that you can pitch well to Japan and react appropriately to Japan's pitching given the situation of the similarities that exist? 
 RODRIGO LOPEZ:  Yes.  As you said, there were several factors.  It was not only the climate that affected, and we're all different.  There are different games, and I don't think that we are bad pitchers.  We just lost two runs.  If you take me out I would say that we're excellent pitchers.  Tomorrow is another game. 
 I don't know who will be starting, and we're getting used to the cold.  We've had five days of cold starting in Phoenix.  And maybe the other starter tomorrow or the next in the next game will like the cold.  I'm a professional player, but I believe that there were several factors. 


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT