CIMB CLASSIC
November 1, 2014
Billy Hurley III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   So it feels good to finish right before the weather comes in?  
BILLY HURLEY, III:   Yeah.   Thankfully we got in there.   Maybe would have liked to have an extra 30 seconds or something on the last couple shots there, but certainly if the wind wasn't blowing as much on the last wedge, might have been able to hit it a little closer and make it, but all things considered, we got it in, so that's good.  
   
 Q.   And did the weather delay affect you at all today?  
BILLY HURLEY, III:   You know, it almost helped me a little bit.   I kind of wasn't playing that great on the front nine, wasn't hitting a whole lot of shots and got to go back and kind of warm up, and it was almost like starting over.   We got through nine holes, so it was kind of like, all right, we're going to play nine holes starting on 10, so kind of was able to warm up and get a little bit better feel for it, and definitely hit a lot of‑‑ you know, definitely played better on the back nine.  
   
 Q.   What's been the key for you this week so far?  
BILLY HURLEY, III:   I've been putting better.   Kind of making some more putts than I have the last couple of weeks, last couple months.   So that's been good.  
And then I normally hit it in the fairways, the fairways are good out here and they're not big either, especially when you're lifting it, the fairway is good.  
   
 Q.   Any birdies stand out to you today?  
BILLY HURLEY, III:   I hit a hybrid to about a foot and a half on 11.   So I had Lee Westwood flashbacks for a second.   I was thinking, oh, that would be fun.   So that was a pretty good one.  
Yeah, that was definitely the best hole of the day.  
   
 Q.   And then your overall thoughts, one off the lead heading into Sunday?  
BILLY HURLEY, III:   You know, if you told me I would have shot 1‑under and I'd only be one back, I would have taken it.   I kind of didn't think that 12 would be the lead after today.   I thought somebody would get 13 or 14 or something like that.   I was hoping I would, you know.   
But you know, just try and go play, if I can play another round of golf like I did Thursday or Friday, and you know, kind of see what happens, I think that's the goal.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT