CIMB CLASSIC
October 31, 2014
Billy Hurley III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Just talk about the day.   Obviously you got it going real well on the back nine, your front nine.   Just talk about the story to your start today.   
BILLY HURLEY, III:   Yeah, I played nicely to start.   That's what I consider to be maybe the toughest stretch; kind of 11 through 13 are kind of the hardest holes out here, and I birdied 11 and birdied 13, so it was kind of a nice way to start.   
And I had a birdie at 10 to start, so I was 3‑under early, and then just hit a couple of wedges close on 16, 17 and 18 and was able to make a couple of 10, 12‑footers to like three feet and maybe a couple of 12‑footers.  
   
 Q.   And then strong coming in to finish the round.  
BILLY HURLEY, III:   Yeah.   I played nicely.   I even played a little bit better probably than the score is on the front side; you know, one bad swing, but hit a lot of really good putts that kind of just hit the edge.   If you would have just hit the edge on the first nine and you make them all on the back nine, then you feel a little bit better about it than doing it the other way around, but at the end of the day it's the same score, so I'm happy with 10‑under for two days.  
   
 Q.   Run us about 13.   It's a tough hole.   A lot of people have been struggling with it.   What was the secret?  
BILLY HURLEY, III:   Just, you know, I think it's kind of‑‑ I think it's one of the easier tee shots on the course.   Obviously it's one of the longer holes, but I mean it's one of the wider fairways, you know, and I just hit a really good 5‑iron that happened to just hop up into the right tier to 10 feet, and still wasn't an easy putt, but I made a nice putt.  
   
 Q.   What about the double on 2?   What happened on there?  
BILLY HURLEY, III:   I just hit a terrible shot off the tee, first shot off the tee, into the bushes somewhere.   Still don't know where it is.  
   
 Q.   You're starting now after two rounds to be right up there two, three shots clear will you.   Are you getting a bit of belief?  
BILLY HURLEY, III:   There's 36 holes of golf left.   You know, two‑shot lead is better than a one‑shot lead, but it's not quite as good as a four‑shot lead.   You always want to have more.   
That's the funny thing about golf is you feel like you always could have played better.   My wife actually hates me for that, or she hates golf for that.   I'm like, ah, I could have always been one better, and she tells me, I don't want to hear about that.  
But we got, like I said, two more rounds and it'll just be another ‑‑ if I can keep hitting it in the fairway and keep putting it like I have and hitting a lot of good putts, then I think I'll be right there on Sunday.  
   
 Q.   It is only two rounds, but does it feel any different knowing you're going to come Saturday in contention.   You're going to show up for the third round or are you just trying to keep it the same?  
BILLY HURLEY, III:   Yeah.   Just trying to keep it the same really.   I've got a little bit more experience now kind of in this position from last year in a couple of spots, so hopefully I can draw on that.   
I definitely drew on that today in the back nine after the bad swing and could have unraveled there on 2 and 3 and stuff, but you know, kind of drew on some of the experience I had from last year and was able to hold it together and play nicely coming in.   So hopefully we can do the same thing coming through tomorrow and Sunday.  
   
 Q.   Anything specific that you learned being in contention?   You were in contention at Greenbrier and some other spots.   Just a different way to approach mistakes or different way to handle the round?  
BILLY HURLEY, III:   I think it's kind of all of it, it's kind of the whole atmosphere, kind of the cameras, maybe more people watching the last group, couple groups.   It's kind of just the atmosphere of it, and you learn a little bit from that.   
I think I definitely learned‑‑ it was Boston last year where I‑‑ on Friday I finished nine and I was leading, and got kind of a bad break on like 12 and made a double and then made a bogey and I went all the way back to like 40th or something like that after Friday was over.  
And I definitely used that experience today after I hit the bad tee shot on 2 and was kind of just, all right, let's just‑‑ you know, I basically said to myself after I hit the bad shot on 2, if you were, you know, 4‑under through 10 and just hit it in the fairway, you'd be thrilled about that round so far.   So let's just go play that way, you know.   
And so I definitely used that experience from Boston just a couple of months ago to turn it around there.   
   
 Q.   Any particular thing you're enjoying about Malaysia other than the golf today?   Have you been out at all?  
BILLY HURLEY, III:   You know, I haven't really been out.   You know, we've‑‑ I think the food's good.   They definitely have nice food of all varieties.   It's not just one kind of variety.   So I've enjoyed nice restaurants here in Kuala Lumpur, and you know, I kind of enjoy the heat, too.   I play well when it's hot.   So you know, I don't think it will get any cooler, so it will be all right.  
   
 Q.   You were in the U.S. Naval Service.   Was it easier to make a decision?  
BILLY HURLEY, III:   Yeah.   I loved being in the Navy, and still have great memories and great friends from being in the Navy.   If I didn't want to play golf, I'd probably still be in the Navy right now, but I'm happy to be out here and be kind of representing the Navy and the Naval Academy on the PGA TOUR.  
   
 Q.   Was that a hard transition?  
BILLY HURLEY, III:   The transition was very hard, yeah, yeah, because I took basically two years away from golf completely in the part of my naval service, so it took a while for it to come back and feel like a golfer then.  
   
 Q.   What was your rank?  
BILLY HURLEY, III:   I was a lieutenant, yeah, when I finished up I was a lieutenant.  
   
 Q.   I know you were in the Persian Gulf.   Anywhere else that you visited internationally?  
BILLY HURLEY, III:   We went to Hong Kong, Singapore, Indonesia.   Right after I left the ship, the ship came here to Malaysia.   I can't remember which port we went to, so I got to see Japan and the Philippines, so a lot of Southeast Asia.   Spent some time in the South China Sea, and I got a lot of kind of culture experience over here.   So that was a lot of fun.  
   
 Q.   What was the name of the ship?  
BILLY HURLEY, III:   USS CHUNG‑HOON.   
   
 Q.   And I think you went back and visited, I don't think it was the exact ship.  
BILLY HURLEY, III:   Yeah, it was.   They were in Pearl Harbor; that's where I was stationed.   So yeah, I've been back there the last couple of years at Sony and kind of just say hi and see the ship and stuff.   It's fun.  
   
 Q.   Interesting reception when you go back?  
BILLY HURLEY, III:   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about the SEAL Legacy Foundation?  
BILLY HURLEY, III:   It's a nonprofit charity organization.   It was started by SEALS; it's run by SEALS, and it's obviously for U. S. Navy SEALS.  
   
 Q.   When was it started?  
BILLY HURLEY, III:   It was started in I think 2000 ‑‑ oh, gosh, I should know that.   I want to say 2002 or 2001.   It was kind of started kind of right in ‑‑ it wasn't right after 9/11, but it was pretty soon after that.   They kind of started that after we went kind of hot and heavy in Iraq and Afghanistan and SEALS started losing their lives doing what they do.   
There's been I think it's right around 70 SEALS who have died since 9/11, so one of the things they're trying to do is get a scholarship endowed in the name of each SEAL.   Obviously not there yet but probably have four or five of those right now.  
   
 Q.   It's exclusively for the SEALS?  
BILLY HURLEY, III:   It's exclusively for the SEALS and their families, exactly.   
   
 Q.   So you kind of support the foundation?  
BILLY HURLEY, III:   Yeah.   So I mean the guys who started it are Naval Academy graduates, and they came to me and we kind of struck a partnership, if you will, and they do a lot of cool things to help out the SEALS in kind of ways that you‑‑ in kind of asymmetric ways, ways that normal foundation, normal charities don't do.   They kind of try and do some out‑of‑the‑box stuff to help out.  
   
 Q.   But you always have‑‑  
BILLY HURLEY, III:   This whole year I have, yeah.   This whole year I have.   We haven't figured out next year yet.   
   
 Q.   Okay.   Thank you.   Play well, Billy.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT