CIMB CLASSIC
October 30, 2014
Billy Hurley III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Did the delay affect you at all?  
BILLY HURLEY, III:   You know, kind of lost a little‑‑ we were on 18, so only one hole to play.   Maybe lost a little bit of feel, hit a short iron over the green on the last‑‑ trying to make birdie, and didn't.   Just kind of maybe lost a little bit of how far the ball was going and whatever.  
But no, I mean overall, no.   I mean would have been nice to have finished in one fell swoop, especially when you only have one hole left, but glad we got it done today anyway.  
   
 Q.   Good enough for second place.   Are you pretty satisfied with that?  
BILLY HURLEY, III:   Yeah, it was a nice round of golf.   I didn't make a bogey, I don't think, and hit a lot of nice shots and made some nice putts, so I kind of just did a nice solid round of golf today.   It was good.  
   
 Q.   What's the key around here, do you think?  
BILLY HURLEY, III:   I think it's be in the fairway, I think.   The rough's not terrible, but when you lift, clean and place, being in the fairway is that much more important because you can get a good lie, you can get a clean ball every time, and you know, make sure you have more control over the ball that way.  
   
 Q.   How are the conditions, the humidity, the heat?  
BILLY HURLEY, III:   I mean I play good when it's hot, so I like that.   Obviously it's a little bit more than we're used to in the U.S. for sure, and there's a little bit more water drank, a little bit more thought to your body as well, and just kind of, you know, hydration and food and calorie intake and stuff like that.   
   
 Q.   You got any read on what you think it's going to take to shoot around here?  
BILLY HURLEY, III:   I have no idea.   There's a lot of golf left.   No idea.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk a little bit about the opportunity to come play in this event, and what it means and maybe‑‑  
BILLY HURLEY, III:   Well, it's my first‑ever no‑cut event, so that's kind of fun.   You know you can play four rounds right off the bat.  
But it's obviously a long ways to come.   It's literally halfway around the world from the East Coast where I'm from.   So there's a travel element to it, but, you know, it's a great partner for the PGA TOUR and they're in a good market for us to be in, and golf's growing like crazy over in Asia, so we need to be a part of that, and it's a great place here at the Kuala Lumpur Golf and Country Club.   But you know, it's a nice event.   They've done a nice job.  
   
 Q.   And then the opportunity for you like to maybe play well, see what happens?  
BILLY HURLEY, III:   Yeah.   I mean so you get‑‑ to get an event like this kind of in the fall, in the start of the season, you know, and you try and have a good week and get a little bit ahead in the FedExCup points race to start the year.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT