THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 5, 2014
Billy Hurley III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JOHN BUSH:   Billy, if we can just get some comments on your round.   Birdie and bogey on your first three holes, but really solid golf the rest of the way. 
BILLY HURLEY III:   Yeah, I played nicer today.   Two bogeys, went bogey‑free yesterday, always feels better than making a couple bogeys on the par‑3s.   But hit the ball nicely.   Hit it well off the tee and on the fairway most of the day, so that makes it a little easier to play.   So hopefully we'll just keep doing that tomorrow. 

Q.   Billy, it looked like some of your shots weren't terribly aggressive today. 
BILLY HURLEY III:   No, I did the same thing I've been doing.   Yeah, there were some pins out there that you didn't want to get near.   The pin on 7, didn't really want to get close to.   You know, I guess I had a lot of 15‑, 20‑footers.   But I wasn't trying to play it safe at all; I was just trying to play it the same way that I've played.

Q.   What is going to be your approach for tomorrow? 
BILLY HURLEY III:   I figure, if I shoot the lowest score tomorrow, I can't lose, so we're just going to go out there and play nicely.   If I play well with a two‑shot lead, I'm going to have to play really, really well.

Q.   I think this is your first time leading after the third round? 
BILLY HURLEY III:   It is, on this TOUR.

Q.   What kind of mental approach will you take? 
BILLY HURLEY III:   No, I don't think so.   I'm going to try to keep doing what I'm doing.   I just want to put my mind in position so that I can play well.

Q.   You birdied 13, which not many people do, and you had the flagstick on 12.   What was your best hole today?   Either one of those or something else? 
BILLY HURLEY III:   Yeah, probably 13, three pretty good shots there, and the ball was pretty tricky from 18, 20 feet coming down the hill.   That one went right in the middle, and those were probably the three best shots back‑to‑back on 13.

Q.   How did you sleep on the lead last night, and how do you expect to sleep on the lead tonight? 
BILLY HURLEY III:   I slept fine last night.   Benefit of the Navy is you learn to sleep anywhere.   I think I'll sleep fine tonight too.

Q.   Does it help being here with the whole family and things to do sort of keeping your mind off golf? 
BILLY HURLEY III:   Yeah, hopefully the boys sleep, that would be the thing for me is that the kids sleep tonight in the room.   But it is a nice distraction.   They don't really know what's going on quite yet.   So I'm just dad, which is fun.

Q.   I guess Jimmy Buffett's not on the Dockett for tonight? 
BILLY HURLEY III:   Yeah, probably not.   I don't know.   We'll see, probably not.   I went to the concert last night.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
BILLY HURLEY III:   I haven't really thought about it too much.   The main thing for me right now is I feel like I have my card locked up for next year, which is kind of a big piece of playing the last couple weeks for me.   So at this point kind of a win is a bonus.   I'm going to give it my best and try to win tomorrow, and trying to hit shots and just have fun doing it.   I haven't really thought about it too much.

Q.   We all know anytime a PGA TOUR player is leading after the round all kinds of people jump out of the wood work and call them.   Your story gained some traction yesterday with a lot of people watching on their day off.   How many calls and texts did you receive after the round? 
BILLY HURLEY III:   Yesterday I probably got 25 or something like that.   We'll see.   My phone's in my locker, so we'll see what it looks like when I get there.

Q.   Are you expecting to hear from a lot more today? 
BILLY HURLEY III:   Yeah, I would assume so.   We were joking.   I was joking with Chad Collins about the fair‑weather friends we have on TOUR who text you when you play well, and you don't hear from them when you do whatever.   So, yeah, I'm sure I'll have just as many.   It's fun though.

Q.   You had a later tee time than you had yesterday.   How was the course playing today?   Was it any different? 
BILLY HURLEY III:   Yeah, it was a little firmer today for sure, but the wind didn't really blow, and I don't think it's supposed to blow a ton tomorrow.   I expect it to be similar tomorrow, maybe just firm up a touch some more in some spots.

Q.   You don't seem like a guy that would be easily intimidated.   Playing with a two‑time major champion tomorrow, does that faze you at all? 
BILLY HURLEY III:   It will be interesting, I think.   I just tell myself to be Billy Hurley.   Sometimes you kind of can look at a guy like that who has won a bunch and two majors, like you said.   Kind of like, oh, he does that pretty nice.   But I just kind of tell myself and I've been telling myself the last couple of days, just be Billy Hurley.   He's doing pretty well.   We'll stick with that, and it will be a new experience.   I've played with a major winners a couple times before, but certainly not in the final group of a tournament. 
JOHN BUSH:   Billy Hurley, thank you, sir. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT