AT&T NATIONAL
July 1, 2012
Billy Hurley III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   First 16 events, four cuts.   The scoring last week, did that give you a little bit of confidence coming in here?
BILLY HURLEY III:   Yeah, it did.   I finally started hitting it solid in the middle of the club face last week.   I was a couple swings away from a top 10 last week, and this week to come out here and hit it solid again and get the putter going was fun.

Q.   How much did it mean to play here locally and what this tournament means to the military?
BILLY HURLEY III:   Well, this tournament is just fantastic in the way they honor our military.   They really made an intentional choice to do that, so it's a special one to me, and certainly being here, about an hour from where I grew up and an hour from where I live now, it's a special place to play. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
BILLY HURLEY III:   I feel good about the way I played overall.   Obviously any golf tournament you want a couple back here and there, and three‑putted two times on the back nine, not that they were easy putts by any stretch of the imagination, but wish I could have gotten those two down in two putts and would have had a third place finish or something.   But overall to get my first top 10, first top 5 on the PGA TOUR is a fun week. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
BILLY HURLEY III:   Yeah, a little bit.   You know, it was one of those things where it was like, I'm going to have to play a super round of golf for that to happen, so we'll just see. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
BILLY HURLEY III:   Absolutely, I mean, there's nobody else out here who's served in the military, and to be the first service academy graduate to earn a PGA TOUR card and play out here full‑time is something that I don't take lightly and feel a responsibility to work with the military. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
BILLY HURLEY III:   Yeah, I mean, everybody was very supportive, and it was a lot of fun to play in front of people who were really cheering for you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT