SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 11, 2017
Billy Hurley III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. When you were stationed here and the Sony Open was going on or the Tournament of Champions at Kapalua did you in your wildest dreams, did you wish you were out here sometimes?
BILLY HURLEY III: Yeah, I did the Monday qualifier one year and lost in a playoff.  So that was kind of a little bit of a bummer.  I came out and watched like one or two days just for fun.  So it was definitely, you know, seeing guys out here and guys that I played against, kind of gave me --
Q. Got you fired up?
BILLY HURLEY III: Exactly.
Q. Did you write yourself notes, about try to progress your golf game as much as you can under the circumstances?
BILLY HURLEY III: I don't know if I wrote something.  I put like a thing on my bulletin board in college that said like, what have you done today to get ready for the PGA TOUR, something like that.
Q. What did your roommates think of that?
BILLY HURLEY III: That's a good question.  I think most everybody -- nobody was like against me but they were, you know, probably subtly chuckling under their breath kind of thing.
Q. Think you were dreaming a little bit too much?
BILLY HURLEY III: Yeah, the other thing I think about dreams, and I saw this when I was in college, I think I did something similar, put it up on my boards:  If people don't laugh at your dreams, then they are not big enough.
Q. Did a lot of people laugh at your dreams?
BILLY HURLEY III: I remember a conversation as a freshman at the Naval Academy with one of my classmates on the golf team and told him I wanted to play on the PGA TOUR, and he chuckled.
Q. As I understand it, nobody from any of the service academies had ever played on the PGA TOUR.
BILLY HURLEY III: Yeah, I think a couple guys Monday qualified into some events back in the 70s.  But nobody's had a full TOUR card and certainly no one's won.
Q. Wasn't there somebody at West Point that played but wasn't a graduate --
BILLY HURLEY III: I don't know who that is.
Q. When did you know this is what you wanted to do?
BILLY HURLEY III: Probably my senior year of college at the Naval Academy.  I won a lot of tournaments, like the fall of my senior year, and I shot 61 in a tournament and I was ranked No. 2 in the country at one point.  And all of a sudden, you know, your name is next to Bill Haas and Nick Watney and Ryan Moore and these guys that everybody pretty much thought was just going to come to the PGA TOUR.  That was when it came more of a reality than just a dream.
Q. Had you first nurtured that dream before then --
BILLY HURLEY III: Yeah, I think every high school golfer wants to play on the PGA TOUR, and that's kind of the dream.  But I worked very, very hard at golf.
Q. Every high school golfer who dreams of playing the PGA TOUR doesn't go to the Naval Academy?
BILLY HURLEY III: I kind of fell in love with the Naval Academy and kind of wanted to go there.  That's what I wanted to do.  I just fell in love with it.
Q. Because of the proximity?
BILLY HURLEY III: That certainly is why I knew about it, because we lived about an hour and a half away and we had family friends that had gone there and stuff.  But I just fell in love with the tradition and honor, courage, commitment, kind of the ideals of the whole thing.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT