AT&T NATIONAL
June 30, 2012
Billy Hurley III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Certainly nice to get today's round in.   
BILLY HURLEY III:   Yeah, it was a lot of fun out there.   I played pretty steady and never really got it in bad spots.   I really only made one mistake on 11, missed a five‑footer that I probably should have made.   
   
 Q.   How strange was it out there with no fans?   
BILLY HURLEY III:   Yeah, it was different.   In some ways it was nice and in some ways it was not nice.   It was different.   It was a different experience.   I don't know that I'll ever have that again.   I don't think anyone has ever had it before.   
You know, it was a little strange a couple times, you make a nice putt, and you're like, okay, we'll move on.   But at the same time it was sort of peaceful out there and easy to get around.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
BILLY HURLEY III:   Yeah, first I made a really good up‑and‑down on 4 to save par out of the front bunker, and then I hit a really good shot into 5 and got it to about 12 feet or 15 feet and made that one.   
Finally was able to keep a ball on the green on 6 today and got it to about eight feet with a wedge on 6, made that one.   Then good up‑and‑down on 7, again, from the front of the green, and then a good‑‑ pretty good wedge and a really good putt coming straight down the hill on 8 from about 15 feet.   
   
 Q.   Did you change anything from yesterday to today?  
BILLY HURLEY III:   No.  
   
 Q.   Just a better round?  
BILLY HURLEY III:   Yeah, I think I just hit more fairways today.   I think I only hit like seven fairways yesterday, so it gets tough to play out of the rough out here for sure.   Today I haven't added it up yet, but I didn't miss many.   So I was playing out of the fairway and was able to get the ball around the hole more.   
   
 Q.   How do you like your chances tomorrow three shots back?   
BILLY HURLEY III:   You never know what'll happen.   It'll be a fun day.   Probably be hot again, so sort of a lot is going on.   But especially around this place, you just never know what can happen.   
   
 Q.   Was the course playing any different today?  
BILLY HURLEY III:   It played a lot softer today.   It was a lot more scorable today for sure.   But I wouldn't go as far as to say it was easy.   But the front nine especially was a lot softer.   You saw some balls actually spin back, some mid irons sort of stay where that hit and that sort of thing.  
The back nine got a little bit closer to how it was yesterday but still not quite as firm on and around the greens.  
   
 Q.   Are you hoping it rains again tonight?  
BILLY HURLEY III:   No, I don't think so.   I mean, I think that we're not playing a birdie‑fest golf tournament for sure, so having it firmer gives you a chance‑‑ if I'm three back at the end of the day or whatever, then making up three shots out here when it's firm is going to be easier than making up three shots when it's soft.   
   
 Q.   Last night's storm knocked down trees and branches all over the place.   Was that distracting at all?   
BILLY HURLEY III:   No, it was sort of awe‑striking a little bit.   You're walking around, and you're just like, wow, that's crazy that a storm can knock down that tree.   Trees this big around just snapped.   So it was‑‑ you know, it wasn't distracting at all.   It was just sort of, you're like, wow, look at that.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT