QUICKEN LOANS NATIONAL
August 2, 2015
Billy Hurley III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Strong finish for you.  Birdied 16, 17 and 18 to close out the tournament.  BILLY HURLEY, III: Yeah, it was nice to finally make a putt on 16 and then I hit a couple of good shots into 17 and 18.  Got one real close on 17 and nice, 6, 7-footer to finish on 18.   Q.  You had to show a lot of patience out there.  Went from 7 to 16 with nothing but pars.  BILLY HURLEY, III: Yeah.  It was kind of one of those nothing was getting really close and hit a couple of good putts and misread them and didn't get the speed right on some other ones and so just kind of plodding along and, you know, trying to get something to go but it would have been frustrating had the finish not turned out to get something to go.  Nice way to finish with 3 in a row.   Q.  You know your situation, 132nd FedExCup Points.  You need some strong finishes here in all the tournaments coming in to qualify for The Playoffs.  BILLY HURLEY, III: No doubt.  You know, this kind of helps.  You know, you don't make a whole lot of points if you finish 65th but 50-ish or 55th gets ten more points than that kind of thing than 65th. So, obviously, not going to get it done finishing 50th each week the next two tournaments but nice kind of building momentum on the back-9 here and hopefully we can turn that into some solid performances at Reno and Wyndham.   Q.  Tell us about some holes and hole locations that we should be looking for as the leaders come through.  BILLY HURLEY, III: Well, there's definitely a couple of tricky ones out there.  You've got No. 6 is in a really tough spot to get to, kind of on the back of a downslope on the tier and then, you know, you're going to see a lot of fun shots on 17. That's kind a little bit of a bowl back in there and so, you know, wouldn't surprise me if someone holes it in that pin.  There's kind of a lot of ways to get it to funnel around to the hole.   Q.  Thank you Billy.  Well done.  BILLY HURLEY, III: Thanks, Fred  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT