AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: MARINERS v YANKEES
October 10, 2000
Orlando Hernandez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Could you talk about what it was like to come out of the bullpen and pitch the other night? 
 
ORLANDO HERNANDEZ:   That's the past, this is Seattle. 
 

Q.  How do you feel about the confidence level that Joe Torre has in you? 
 
ORLANDO HERNANDEZ:   I feel good about the confidence Joe Torre has in me and also the confidence which the team has in me.  
 

Q.  The other night you said before the third Division Series game that it was a game like any other regular-season game.  What is tomorrow's game like? 
 
ORLANDO HERNANDEZ:   It's the same.  You have to prepare yourself for every game, and it's a game just like any other.  You have to get 27 outs or else you don't win.  
 

Q.  Last week against Oakland, you threw 130 pitches.  Will you be able to do the same thing if it's required, tomorrow? 
 
ORLANDO HERNANDEZ:   I don't know.  I really can't talk about tomorrow's job until the game is over tomorrow.  
 

Q.  How does your arm feel, and did the work during the game, did it end up being sort of like a bullpen session? 
 
ORLANDO HERNANDEZ:   That was Thursday.  Tomorrow is another day.  
 

Q.  How does your arm feel? 
 
ORLANDO HERNANDEZ:   I feel good.  I worked so I can feel good and healthy.   
 

Q.  Do you feel like you have an arm where you could pitch every day? 
 
ORLANDO HERNANDEZ:   I'm not Superman.  I'm human, but if the need arises, I'm capable of pitching.  I always put myself up in front. 
 

Q.  Do you consider yourself a big  game pitcher?  You say you treat every game the same way, but how do you then explain your post-season success? 
 
ORLANDO HERNANDEZ:   I don't consider myself a big-game pitcher.  I consider myself someone who works hard and tries to do his job and help his team.  I consider every game the same.  I don't want to lose in the regular season, and I don't want to lose now; therefore, I prepare myself.  If you would excuse me, if you don't understand some of my responses, I'm not the brightest guy.  
 

Q.  Is there a part of you that would have liked to have played for the Cuban team in the Olympics and helped your old team beat the United States? 
 
ORLANDO HERNANDEZ:   I play for the Yankees  -- until 1995 I played for Cuba but now I play for the New York Yankees.  I represent Cuban baseball, but now I am a representative of the New York Yankees.  
 

Q.  Does the temperature here affect you? 
 
ORLANDO HERNANDEZ:   A little bit.  I don't like it, but that's the job and you have to battle against it.  That's the food that we have; therefore, that's the food that we need to eat.  
 

Q.  What is the coldest temperature you ever pitched in in Cuba? 
 
ORLANDO HERNANDEZ:   Cold temperature in Cuba doesn't exist.  The hottest, yes, I could tell you.  41 or 42 degrees Celsius.  
 

Q.  In most lineups, you can look at one guy and single out and say this is the guy that I can't let beat me.  With them you can say that about two or three guys, Alex Rodriguez, Edgar Martinez, Jay Buhner.  How do you approach their lineup tomorrow? 
 
ORLANDO HERNANDEZ:   I personally never look at one person in the lineup.  1 through 9, they are all pretty tough.  Seattle is a great team and I have a lot of respect for them.  I respect 1 through 9, and also if they bring in a pinch-hitter, I respect him, also.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT