AL DIVISION SERIES: YANKEES v ATHLETICS
October 6, 2000
Orlando Hernandez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 

Q.  Luis Sojo said the double play ball in the seventh, you were told right before it was hit that the ball was coming to him.  Why would you say that?
 
ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: The matter in which we were going after the batter, I wanted to get a ground ball.  I tried with all I had to get the ground ball to get to second base.  
 

Q.  How did you find yourself after the first five innings? Your pitch count was high.  You obviously made some adjustments. 
 
ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: For the first five innings, my control was terrible and my team was encouraging me pretty much, I could hear all the guys encouraging me.  After the fifth inning, Mr. Torre pulled me aside and told me to stop battling myself, to just pitch my game and, therefore, in the next two innings I was able to do my job and pitch well, pitch better.  
 

Q.  A lot had been made about your success in post-season.  What does it say for you that you were able to get another win in post-season even though you weren't as sharp as you've been in your post-season starts in previous years?
 
ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: I'd like to give thanks to God and also thanks to the great effort of my teammates with all the great support and the great plays that they did, we were able to come out victorious.  
 

Q.  How do you feel now, fatigue-wise? You're known for going into a high pitch count.  You've done it a number of times.  How is your fatigue now? Do you feel good, or was this maybe  -- did you push yourself a little today?
 
ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: I wouldn't say I'm tired or fatigued.  I train very hard so that I'm able to throw a lot of pitches.  High pitch counts don't really bother me.  Thanks to God I was able to battle them and come up with the win.  
 

Q.  The  -- much is being made today of pitch counts.  When you were pitching in Cuba, did pitch counts exist or did you just throw as long as you could throw?
 
ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: In Cuba there aren't any closers like Mariano.  You pretty much had to pitch all nine innings.  But although you try, not everyone's able to throw so many pitches.  
 

Q.  Although you had a high pitch count, although you didn't feel your performance was that well in the fifth inning, you did beat their best man tonight.  That's the bottom line.  How does that make you feel? You beat Oakland's best man. 
 
ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: I'd say it was a great effort on behalf of my team.  We were able to beat their top starter.  It's going to make it a little bit more difficult for them to beat us with someone who's not their top starter.  I also think that on our behalf, tomorrow we have our best pitcher going.  By the same token, we can't really lean back a little bit because Oakland has a great team and they're going to come after us and we have to respect that.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT