MLB WORLD SERIES: YANKEES v BRAVES
October 22, 1999
Orlando Hernandez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Obviously the Braves hit you pretty hard in June. What are you going to have to do
to adjust to them? What was the problem that day?
 
 ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: From what I'm going to do, I'm not going to tell you guys right now
and I'm not going to be able to say as far as my technique and approach and what I'm going
to do. Obviously it's something I should do. We're going to make our best effort to make
sure they don't hit us this time. 
 
Q. Having lived in Cuba the past ten years, what do you know of the Atlanta Braves?
 
 ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: I do know it's one of the great teams, especially of this past
decade. And over the last ten years, they're one of the best teams in baseball. It's a
team that I definitely admire and respect a whole lot, and good luck. 
 
Q. I understand you're not going to tell us what you're going to do differently against
the Braves. Was the problem a problem of your technique or specific to the Braves?
 
 ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: I've already answered that question. 
 
Q. Could you ask him, what kind of hitter gives you the most trouble? The free swingers
or contact hitters?
 
 ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: All of them. All of them. All the ones that have a bat in their
hand. 
 
Q. You've seen Livan win in '97 and how happy he was, did that make you hunger for this
all the more?
 
 ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: Making me hunger for what more? 
 
Q. Hunger to be in this position yourself.
 
 ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: Watching Livan more gave me a lot of joy and brought out a lot of
emotion in me. I thought it was something he felt -- he represented our family and he
represented it well here. That desire and hunger for baseball and to succeed at this
level, it's something I've had my entire life, ever since I was a little kid. 
 
Q. Last year before Game 4 against the Indians you pitched so well in such a
high-pressure situation. Do you prepare for games like that by pretending there is no
pressure or fully acknowledging that the team really is leaning on you?
 
 ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: Every game, I feel, is very important. Every game I feel the
pressure is the same and I prepare myself for it. Any time you play a game on the field,
you need to go out there and be completely, totally ready for it. I think the important
thing in any game is to go out there and win. 
 
Q. You say every game is the same. But with the Braves beating you twice in the only
appearances you've had, do you ever take a game personally?
 
 ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: Congratulations to them. Congratulations. 
 
Q. You never take it personally, or you do take it personally?
 
 ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: No. Congratulations to them. There's always one team that wins and
one teams that loses, and that's baseball. 
 
Q. Are you a strong believer in scouting reports and really studying opposing hitters,
or just pitching your own style?
 
 ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: I pretty much just -- my own style. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT