AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: RED SOX v YANKEES
October 17, 1999
Orlando Hernandez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. You've had one bad game and one good game at Fenway this year. What do you like or
dislike about pitching here?

ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: He say for him, every ballpark is about the same. You know you got
to pitch tomorrow, so you don't want to worry about that. You know you got to go to the
mound and he just going to try to pitch. That's it.

Q. In the game against the Rangers and the first game, you had some trouble early on,
then you settled down. What did you try to concentrate on that allowed you to sort of
smooth things out?

ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: He say he's going to try to do all the same thing. He's going to try
to pitch his game that he know how to pitch. And try to make good pitches.

Q. Anything different about pitching here than, say, the opener, pitching at Yankee
Stadium? What's different about pitching at Fenway Park for you?

ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: He say he's going to pitch into a ballclub, and they have a lot of
good, quality players. He's going to do the same thing. The team is a good team, so it
will make no difference. If you got to pitch at Yankee Stadium or if you got to pitch at
Fenway Park, it's still the same team. He say and he used to live in Cuba, now he live
here in the United States. It's no different.

Q. Does he worry about the left-field wall?

ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: He said when he pitching before -- you know, during the season, when
he pitch in Fenway Park before during the regular season, nobody ask him about the wall.
So what's the difference now?

Q. Regardless of what happens tonight, he'll be pitching tomorrow either to win the
series or try and prevent the Red Sox from going ahead. Can he draw upon what he did in
the last ALCS game against Cleveland to help him in that effort?

ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: He said he don't think about that we going to -- he don't worry or
think that we going to lose tonight. So he going to approach whatever happen tonight, he
going to approach the game in the same way, too. I don't think he wants to answer that.

Q. In your years of pitching in Cuba, did you ever pitch in front of a crowd that was
as angry and vocal as yesterday?

ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: He said in Cuba, he used to be a little bit worse than here. They
very vocal and -- and then in Cuba, it's a little bit different. They throw rocks to
tomatoes, to anything they can find to the field. He say if you win, the opposite fans,
they going to try to beat you any way they can. Then if you lose, your own fans are going
to try to kill you. So it's one way or another, we don't have no choice.

Q. You pitched well against the Red Sox the first time around. What are you looking for
out of this line-up in Game 5? Does anything concern you with the line-up coming up?

ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: Well, he said he going to try to do all the more, you know, the same
thing he did before. How he did it, there's no way he can tell you guys. That's his
weapon. He say he don't want to change nothing. He going to try to approach this game,
tomorrow's game the same way that he approach the first game in the series.

Q. What was the most difficult place to play in Cuba? Where was it? Between which
teams?

ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: He got to beat the more difficult place to play got to be Santiago
and Villa Clara and Havana. But he say for his team, every park, every park in Cuba was
pretty bad.

Q. Does he study other pitchers when they're on the mound? If so, did he pick up
anything from last night's performance from Pedro?

ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: He say he always looking at every pitcher in the League. His own
teammates and the other pitcher, the opposite pitcher, too, because you can take a little
bit from every pitcher. And then especially yesterday was a very special day yesterday,
because we got two of the best pitchers in baseball facing one against the other one. So
for him, yesterday was special. You always just learn something from them. And, sure,
Pedro right now is the best pitcher, for him, he's the best pitcher in baseball right now.
You can get a lot of stuff, you can learn a lot of stuff just from watching Pedro.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT