AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: RED SOX v YANKEES
October 12, 1999
Orlando Hernandez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Your thoughts on being named game-one starter again.
 
 ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: I just have great preparation for this game and that way I am going
to approach this game is like I know the game, like it was a another game. 
 
Q. Before coming over here how aware were you of the intense rivralry between the Red
Sox and Yankees and now that you know about it, how excited are you?
 
 ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: The intensity is -- there is no doubt about it. But it is beside the
point to anybody just about all the times when they approach the Yankees, so I am ready
for that. 
 
Q. What goes through your mind as a pitcher when you see a team score 44 runs in the
last three games of the series?
 
 ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: I am going to try to pitch today best way I could and find one place
where I know they are not going to score 44 runs, so that is exactly how my game plan is
going to be. 
 
Q. How important does that first time through the lineup become in getting that
mentality of "they are not going to score 10, 12 runs?"
 
 ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: Only God knows about that. The only thing I am going to do is I am
going to the field; I am going to give my best, like I always do, and then after that,
there is nothing you can do. Nothing you can do. 
 
Q. Do you pitch the same way in Fenway Park as you would Yankee Stadium?
 
 ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: I don't know. 
 
Q. Do you think you can do to the Red Sox what you did to Texas as a staff over the
course of the series?
 
 ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: I don't know. 
 
Q. Give it a guess.
 
 ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: I don't think about nothing. 
 
Q. You have had a lot of success in the biggest games for the Yankees and a lot of
people comment about how well you handle pressure. Can you compare what it is like the
pressure of dealing with these games with the pressures that you were under in Cuba and do
you think that helps you?
 
 ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: I was always under pressure and the pressure was in my life since I
left from Cuba, so to me pressure is nothing. I can handle the pressure. 
 
Q. When you lived in Cuba were you aware of the Yankee/Red Sox rivalry and also what do
you know about the Bucky Dent home run?
 
 ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: You are asking me for too much now. I know about rivalry between
Boston and New York Yankees, but speaking about Bucky Dent's home run, I think I was a
little bit too young. I don't remember that. They only have two channels television in
Cuba. 
 
Q. Is it a distraction having the things that came out about your age in the court
papers this week come up at this time?
 
 ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: What does that have to do with the game tomorrow? I am asking you
that. I am asking you the distraction that I was in the paper yesterday regarding my age,
if I that had to do something with the game that I am going to pitch in tomorrow, it is
two different questions. 
 
Q. Does it bother you the fact that it comes out now?
 
 ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: The only one that has got a right to ask me about my age is George
Steinbrenner and so far nothing happened, George never asked me nothing about my age. 
 
Q. How does it feel now to be named as the opening starter on a staff that has Roger
Clemens and David Cone? 
 
 ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: To me it is not any honor. It is simply I am one of those guys and
they are going to start one out of the 7 games and hopefully we play against Boston. More
important thing is to try to help the ballclub and just try to win the first game. That is
the most important thing; not who is No. 1, No. 2. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT