AL DIVISION SERIES: RANGERS v YANKEES
October 5, 1999
Orlando Hernandez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Can you talk about how you shut down Texas' three, four, five hitters: Greer,
Gonzalez and Palmeiro?
 
 ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: They're all great hitters. I had luck on my side today. God was on
my side. Palmeiro had a good hit, but Tino was able to grab it. 
 
Q. Can you take us through that first inning when you struck out Gonzalez and then
struck out Todd Zeile with the bases loaded?
 
 ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: It was a complicated inning. It was my most complicated inning. I
was able to get by with good pitches to Gonzalez and to the third baseman Zeile. 
 
Q. Did you feel any pressure about setting a tone, and how do you feel now about the
tone that's been set?
 
 ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: I always pitch with pressure. I like pitching with pressure
throughout all nine innings. I've said that various times. Relaxing is not something I
like to do when I pitch. 
 
Q. How much was it in your game plan to pitch around the three, four and five hitters?
How much was it in your plan for them not to hurt you as you had four walks to those
batters?
 
 ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: That's a tactic that we discuss within the team that I don't think
should be discussed here with you. 
 
Q. You allowed one run in 22 playoff innings. What is it about post-season
circumstances or pressure that brings out the best in you?
 
 ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: I'm happy with the way I pitched. The most important thing is the
support I received from my team, offensively and defensively. I don't feel like I won the
game; they won the game. 
 
Q. Orlando, were you worried about throwing 53 pitches in the first three innings, or
were you following the game plan and you felt you had it under control?
 
 ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: I don't worry about my pitch count. I'm not one of the people that
worries about that. Thank God I like to pitch a lot, throw a lot of pitches. I have a
strong arm, and I like to use my arm. I prepare myself and I train myself enough so that
I'm able to pitch the number of pitches I need to during a game. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT