AL DIVISION SERIES: RANGERS v YANKEES
October 4, 1999
Orlando Hernandez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Orlando, did you learn anything from your only appearance this season versus Texas
in your loss?

ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: I faced them this year, faced them last year. Every time you go out
and face a team, you learn a little bit more about them. We know that they're a very good
team out in the field, and we're looking forward to facing them again. 

Q. Last year, you looked like you were very excited and almost bred for the
post-season. You were very confident. Are you as confident this year to pitch and as
excited to pitch in post-season?

ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: Yes, I am very proud to be starting the first game. The other
players are very happy for me. I think the other pitchers are more qualified than I am,
but I'm happy to go out there. 

Q. Do you feel pressure when you go out and pitch in a ball game? And you've been
through so many different things in your life, leaving Cuba, coming here, how does that
compare to pitching, getting in a jam in a baseball game? How do you address pressure, and
is there any, stepping out on to the mound?

ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: I've always liked pressure. I've always pitched in pressure. I've
always liked pitching in pressure. Facing things in your life is different than facing it
on the field. I'll always try, though, to put pressure on myself when I pitch so that I
can pitch better. 

Q. How are you a different pitcher? And your composure, how is it different from Game 4
in Cleveland last season?

ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: I feel it's the same thing. The most important thing is to win. I
felt the same way against Cleveland; I feel the same way every time I pitch. What we want
to do is to win. 

Q. Joe said he talked to you and Roger both about pitching in Game 1. What kinds of
things did he ask you and did you lobby for it? What did you tell him?

ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: He didn't ask me anything. What did he ask me? 
JAY STENHOUSE: In a previous press conference, he stated that he talked to both of you
prior to making his decision.
ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: He didn't ask me about the first game. He told me I was going to
pitch the first game. It's not important to pitch the first game; it's important to win
the first game. It's important for all pitchers to represent the team and to win the first
game, to win any game. 

Q. ERA is a little bit high, up in the fours. There's some fluctuatation and control.
Is that a concern going into the playoffs, or do you feel that has been corrected? Do you
feel your control is fine at this point?

ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: I'm not worried about my control. My control goes up and down. It's
not something that's worrying me. There's nothing I can do. 

Q. You've gone through a lot of things coming here from Cuba. There's a dance named
after you; you are sort of living "La Vida Loca," the crazy life. Can you
comment to us about how it is now to be pitching the first game in the Division Series?

ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: I'm very proud of the steps I've taken to be here. I'm very happy
that my image is a positive one. I'm happy that my face is on the screen on TV. My crazy
life, my kids, my daughters, Steffi, Julia and my mother. And I'm very happy to be here.
And my wife, Norys Bosch, and I'm very proud to be playing for the Yankees. 

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT