AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: RED SOX v YANKEES
October 15, 2004
Orlando Hernandez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Can you just tell us how the shoulder is feeling and how excited you are to be getting the ball tomorrow? 
 
ORLANDO HERNANDEZ:   I feel very good.  I'm feeling very happy for tomorrow.  Tomorrow is my game for the team.  It's another game.  
 
Q.  How long do you think you could go and what kind of pitch count; will you be under a pitch count? 
 
ORLANDO HERNANDEZ:   I don't know.  I don't know yet.  Sorry.  
 
Q.  When you started your career with the Yankees the first time around you were a clutch performer in the playoffs.  What is it about the post-season that gets you to raise your level a little bit? 
 
ORLANDO HERNANDEZ:   I don't know.  As I mentioned earlier, I look at a playoff game as any other game.  I don't try to separate playoff from regular season games and I try to prepare for every game equally.  They are all important.  
 
Q.  If tonight is rained out and everything is pushed back, would it make a difference to you if you pitched Sunday or Monday? 
 
ORLANDO HERNANDEZ:   No, I don't think it will concern me.  It's something that you can control.  You get the ball and you pitch when it's your day, be it tomorrow or the next day.  It's up to the manager to make that decision and you do your job when you're given the ball. 
 
Q.  When you were in the Minor Leagues rehabbing this year, what realistic expectations did you have for your season once you got back to New York? 
 
ORLANDO HERNANDEZ:   My hopes and dreams and expectations didn't start when I was rehabbing; it started when I was able to stand in, on free soil when I first arrived to this country. As far as athletically, I really didn't have any goals, just to come back healthy and strong and I have a lot of faith in God and I just prayed to Him to help me along the way.  So this is like a war.  They can injury you, but what's important is that you don't die.  
 
Q.  Do you have any expectations or anticipations as to how many innings you think you might be able to give Joe tomorrow night? 
 
ORLANDO HERNANDEZ:   To anticipate would be an error.  You can't plan the future; we have to deal with now.  We'll have to wait for tomorrow, and after the game, we'll talk about how many innings I was able to pitch and how I worked.  If I was going to throw bullpen, I could guarantee you nine zeros, but I have a lot of respect for the Boston team and all of the other teams, and they are a great team.  We just have to go to battle.  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT