AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: INDIANS v YANKEES
October 9, 1998
Orlando Hernandez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. He has an affinity for Doc Gooden even though they never played together; could you
explain that?
 
 ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: Well, first of all, I'm a big fan of Dwight Gooden because I was
able to see him pitch and just as everyone else has a person who they root for and is a
fan of Doc, I am a fan of his and I like the way he pitches. 
 
Q. Coldest weather you've ever pitched in and how will you deal with it tomorrow night?
 
 ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: Well, in the past, when I was pitching the Cuban National team, we
played in Italy and Ireland, and other countries in Europe and it was pretty cold. I'm not
sure what temperature, but it was pretty cold and we all pretty much know my story. I've
been through some cold times, and I don't feel that the cold in the field will affect my
pitching tomorrow. 
 
Q. You talked to your brother, Livan, to whom you're very close right before this, and
also, when you were coming over from Cuba, this is obviously the position you wanted to be
in.
 
 ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: As I've explained in the past, I am very happy to be where I am
right now. Baseball-wise it's been a great year, I have enjoyed everything and it's great
to be in a position competing for World Championship. Also, in the past two years, not
being able to play I wasn't active while in Cuba for two years and it's a great position
to be in right now, playing for the World Championship. 
 
Q. How will the outcome of tonight's game affect your pitching and your attitude
towards pitching tomorrow?
 
 ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: It really doesn't have an effect on how I'm going to pitch tomorrow.
If we win tomorrow, I'll be happy and I'll pitch tomorrow. If we lose today, I won't be
happy but I'll still pitch tomorrow. But it really doesn't have any affect on how I'm
going to pitch tomorrow. 
 
Q. Does he hope that he can emulate his brother's success last year and has he spoken
to his brother about it? 
 
 ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: Though I haven't spoken to my brother, as everyone knows I've played
in big games before in Cuba with the national teams, we've played in World Championships.
Obviously I haven't played in a game of this magnitude in the Major Leagues, but I do have
experience pitch in big games and, no, I haven't spoke to my brother. I've pitched 21
starts with the same focus, just a little bigger stage. 
 THE INTERPRETER: This gentleman said didn't you ask your brother for any advice for how
it went and he said, no, I haven't spoke to him about it. 
 
Q. Obviously, two-week layoff is nothing compared to the long layoff you had pitching
before you came over here, but besides the physical things of throwing on the side, what
have you been doing mentally to try to stay in focus having not pitched in so long?
 
 ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: I've trained hard as always, as I always do, but those two weeks off
are not justification for me to have a bad game tomorrow. 
 
Q. Orlando, what is the biggest game you've pitch to this date?
 
 ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: The biggest game that I've pitch to this date is jumping on the boat
and leaving Cuba. 
 
Q. Besides that?
 
 ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: To me, every game I've pitched this year has been a big game. There
is pressure involved and every game is an important game to me. 
 
Q. Orlando, what were you doing last year at this time and were you able to watch or
hear any of your brother's games on the radio?
 
 ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: Last year at this time if I recall correctly, the Marlins were
playing the Braves and Livan was pitching and CNN has an office in Cuba and they allowed
me to go to their headquarters and watch the games or sometimes listen to them and I am
grateful to them. Also many stopped by my house in Cuba and kept me up to date as to what
was going on in the playoffs. 
 
Q. Can you go back to this moment when you did jump on the boat and what did you expect
to happen? What did you expect this year?
 
 ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: I cannot respond to that question. 
 
Q. This year in one of your first unsuccessful outings was here in Cleveland. Could you
talk about what the Indians did against you and what adjustments you've made since then?
 
 ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: I really don't think I had a bad outing here -- I don't think it was
a bad outing here, I think California and Atlanta were bad outings, but the Indians I
don't think it was a bad outing, I don't really have a response to that. 
 
Q. Joe Torre had mentioned that in part of his comments at some point.
 
 ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: That's his critique, not mine. 
 
Q. Could you share with us again how you developed the high leg kick and how much of
that was from watching Doc Gooden? 
 
 ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: As you all see, Dwight Gooden doesn't raise his leg as he used to in
the past. In the past he raised his legs keeping his arms in tight and I watched that and
adapted my motion, incorporating some of what he did and from there I went on developing
what I was doing and through training and practice, I've got to where I raise my leg the
way I do now. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT