MLB WORLD SERIES: YANKEES v DIAMONDBACKS
October 30, 2001
Orlando Hernandez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Can you talk about some of the struggles you've had this season, go over some of the injuries, some of the disappointments? 

ORLANDO HERNANDEZ (Through Leo Astacio):   I'm not going to speak about that.  I have to look forward and think about the future, the injuries happened and we dealt with it.   Everyone knows that I had it and we dealt with it and that was it.


Q.  How historic is tomorrow night for you? 

ORLANDO HERNANDEZ (Through Leo Astacio):   To me, all of my starts are very important to me.  Tomorrow is an important start, and I'm going to treat it like I treat every other one. 


Q.  When people talk about you as a big-game pitcher, they first go back to that game against Cleveland in 1998, what do you recall about that game? 

ORLANDO HERNANDEZ (Through Leo Astacio):   You can remember it but it doesn't really do anything for today or tomorrow.  We need to think about how to win today, and then how to win tomorrow.  And then God willing, Thursday, we'll be able to speak about tomorrow's game. 


Q.  Facing Gonzo tomorrow, it will be a Cuban pitcher and a Cuban batter in a World Series game; have you thought about facing not a Cuban-born person, but a Cuban-heritage person, does that give you any special feeling? 

ORLANDO HERNANDEZ (Through Leo Astacio):   I have given thought to everyone on their team.  Luis Gonzalez, he's a member of that team and I have thought about all of them. 


Q.  Does it matter to you if Schilling pitches tomorrow or Batista pitches tomorrow? 

ORLANDO HERNANDEZ (Through Leo Astacio):   Thank God, I don't have to hit.  (Laughter.)  By all means, we have to focus on whatever pitcher we are facing.  We've faced many good pitchers, Pedro, Glavine, and other guys, but Schilling is having a great post-season and we still have to go after him and attack him as we have other teams and other pitchers.


Q.  Is it difficult to make a playoff start without having faced many of these players before and having to rely solely on scouting reports and videotapes? 

ORLANDO HERNANDEZ (Through Leo Astacio):   It's pretty difficult, but we went through the same situation versus San  Diego, versus Atlanta, versus Tampa Bay in my first start in '98.  Basically may the best team win.  You just have to go out and battle on the field.  That's where the game is played, on the field and you just have to do battle.  There's always a first time.


Q.  Some people feel you have an advantage when you face a team for the first time because of your unusual delivery and your arm angles, do you feel that you have an edge? 

ORLANDO HERNANDEZ (Through Leo Astacio):   I never have an advantage.  You have to respect every opponent the same.  They are not here by luck or by chance.  I always try to respect their routine if we were not playing anyone, I would have an advantage, but we are playing a very good team.  


Q.  Probably going to be Batista and El Duque, and there have not been two Latin guys that have faced each other in the World Series, what is your reaction? 

ORLANDO HERNANDEZ (Through Leo Astacio):   It's very interesting.  It's very good for Latin baseball, and we have to give thanks to the United States and their baseball for giving us the opportunity to present ourselves in this country.  The only sure victory is when the game is a forfeit. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT