AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: YANKEES v MARINERS
October 19, 2001
Orlando Hernandez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  How do you feel going against Moyer, probably the best pitcher for Seattle in this important game? 

ORLANDO HERNANDEZ (Through Leo Astacio):   As far as the pitcher, Moyer, that's our hitters' problem.  My problem is to deal with the hitters as I've dealt with all season, the other teams hitters.  They are a great team.  They play together and we just have to go out and try to do the job. 


Q.  What do you think has been the biggest factor in your success in the post-season; you are 9-1, what do you think has been the biggest factor? 

ORLANDO HERNANDEZ (Through Leo Astacio):   I'd say my teammates help in encouraging me.  I never think about my personal records.  What's important is that the team wins and I'm happy.  Thanks for reminding me, but I don't think about that. 


Q.  You talked about the physical problems you have had this year and how they have affected your pitching? 

ORLANDO HERNANDEZ (Through Leo Astacio):   That's not important.  To me, that's not important.  To me, what's important is to think about tomorrow's game.  That's in the past. 


Q.  Does it take a little less pressure off of you going into this game up 2-0 where in the last game, if you lost, the team is out? 

ORLANDO HERNANDEZ (Through Leo Astacio):   No.  That would be relaxing and I try to never relax, whether it be the regular season or the post-season and I always try to keep the same amount of pressure on myself.  Two victories doesn't mean we've won anything.  It just means that we are ahead in the series.


Q.  Do you approach the game thinking about a complete game or do you go into it thinking "If I can get to the sixth, we've got a good shot"? 

ORLANDO HERNANDEZ (Through Leo Astacio):   I prepare for a perfect game.  It's just not possible.  I always try to prepare so that they don't hit me, but in baseball, as you know, you get hit. 


Q.  Are you physically capable to go nine innings? 

ORLANDO HERNANDEZ (Through Leo Astacio):   Yes, and more. 


Q.  What is the difference between pitching in a possible elimination game, being down 2-0 to Oakland or pitching in a game that could put you up 3-0? 

ORLANDO HERNANDEZ (Through Leo Astacio):   It might be difficult for you to understand me sometimes, but as I've said in the past, I always try to focus on that game.  I don't focus on whether we are up 2-0 or down 2-1 and we can get eliminated.  I try not to pay any attention to that.  I think to focus on just one game, trying to get 27 outs is enough for someone to think about.


Q.  Which one of your rings are you wearing and is there any significance to wearing one at all and wearing that one in particular? 

ORLANDO HERNANDEZ (Through Leo Astacio):   My wedding band?  No, I'm wearing last year's ring.  That way, we remind ourselves that we are the champions and that we have to win.  The champions never want to lose their title and this way we remind ourselves that we are the champions and that we don't want to give it up.


Q.  As somebody who mixes up his pitches and keeps hitters off balance, what sense of appreciation do you have for the way Moyer does that? 

ORLANDO HERNANDEZ (Through Leo Astacio):   What I appreciate about Jamie Moyer is that he's a good pitcher and he had a great season and congratulations on the great season and good luck tomorrow. 


Q.  I was just going to ask, the importance of getting Ichiro out at the top of the order, does that play into your game plan or do you not worry about that? 

ORLANDO HERNANDEZ (Through Leo Astacio):   I want to get them all out.  It's important to get the first hitter of the game out, and also the first hitter of every inning, but I'm not going to focus on just one person.  I'm going to focus on their whole lineup.  That's my way of thinking. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT