PENN STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 13, 2018
Steven Gonzalez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Steven, you guys have gone through quite a meat grinder of a schedule probably going back to the Ohio State game.  How do you avoid, after facing that quality of competition for so long, having a let-down against a team like Rutgers that's obviously struggling?
STEVEN GONZALEZ: I think our focus is to just try to keep playing hard every week.  Every game's important, just like Coach Franklin preaches, every game is Super Bowl.
We've got to treat them like any other opponent and they're just as tough and physical as the other teams and they're going to play hard.
Q. So the switch between tackles Bates and Fries moving.  Bennett said that wasn't something that you were aware was going to happen until early last week.  Does that require the whole offensive line to adapt, or is it really on those two guys and what they were comfortable with?
STEVEN GONZALEZ: Honestly, it's just kind of flipping plays for them.  Bates having to get used to right-side plays and Fries having to get used to left-side plays.
At the end of the day it wasn't much of an adaptation.  I think we're a very cohesive offensive line.  We've played with each other for a while.  It's just something we expect from our guys.
Q. Both of those tackle at different points, but when you've been next to the same guy for nine games and you switch, is there a tendency thing, do you have to go over notes before you get on the field where it becomes almost instinct in how you react and play off of each other?
STEVEN GONZALEZ: A little bit.  You have to get used to the other guys, the way he pass protects or run protects or any one of the two.  But, like I said -- like you said, I played with Fries before, Fiesta Bowl and all last year at the end of the last year, and I'm used to them and they're both great players.
Q. As an offensive lineman, when you look at a defense like Rutgers, I think the bottom 10 of FBS in rushing defense, offensive linemen like to run the football.  Is this the kind of game you guys like as a group are licking your chops to pound the rock?
STEVEN GONZALEZ: Every game we try to -- every game we try to establish a run game.  So doesn't matter what opponent it is, we're always going to try to establish the run first and then obviously build off of it with the passing game.  So it's just going to be a great challenge for us.
Q. Coach Franklin is really happy you guys collectively have eliminated tackles for loss, and a big point of pride of the running backs and focal point of the offseason, why do you think it is?  Is it guys trying to tend to do too much or improvement with you guys or what?
STEVEN GONZALEZ: I think we just improved as an offensive line.  I think we need to gain a little bit more chemistry and cohesiveness with each other and that's what we got obviously through winter and through spring and through the summer workouts, summer camp.  And then obviously through nine, ten games this year.
I'm thinking it's a little bit more cohesiveness and getting used to each other and the scheme and we feel really comfortable where we are at right now.
Q. How do you think you guys as a unit have held up in pass protection this year?
STEVEN GONZALEZ: I think we've done pretty well compared to years past.  We've had our rough moments, obviously.  No game's going to be perfect.  So especially the Big Ten with the amount of talent that we have, and that we face.  But I think we've done really well.
Q. James, when he's in here, or after games, or on Twitter, how much do you guys pay attention to what he has to say?
STEVEN GONZALEZ: We pay attention to a good amount.  What he preaches to us is very important and it resonates throughout the entire program.
Q. I'm saying publicly as well as behind closed doors.
STEVEN GONZALEZ: Yep.
Q. It usually the same thing?
STEVEN GONZALEZ: Yeah, everything's the same.  No matter what, behind closed doors, publicly, it's all the same, we all get the same message.
Q. What's the first time in your career where you were impressed by running back Miles Sanders, where you knew that some day he was going to be something special?
STEVEN GONZALEZ: I think it was a series of moments.  It was a little tough especially with obviously Saquon here.  He wasn't getting as much time in games.  But we could tell throughout practices and things like that especially in his first summer camp where he was making plays even behind Saquon.  And he's just a really impressive guy.  He's an awesome, funny guy, and he works his tail off every day.
Q. You're one of several New Jersey guys on this roster.  A few more in the freshman class that came in.  When Jersey guys get to campus for recruiting visit, are you typically putting a little extra time in that, especially when -- I'm talking more postseason when you're more flexible with your schedule, maybe you can spend more time with recruits, do you typically assign yourself and spend more time with New Jersey recruits?
STEVEN GONZALEZ: Normally the recruiting people they do a good job with pairing us with New Jersey guys, especially guys from our area.  Whenever New Jersey guys come, we normally typically say hey to them and what's up with the campus and football team and things like that.  So just really depends who they tell us to really talk to.  And normally like we'll know who the Jersey guys, New Jersey guys normally know who is getting recruited from where and things like that.
Q. You faced several good defensive lines in games this year.  But how would you evaluate the kind of test that Penn State's defensive line currently provides for whatever offensive line it's going against?
STEVEN GONZALEZ: They're a really good unit, and we knew that since summer camp.  They always gave us a challenge every single day we went on the field.  Now they're just proving it.  And they're a heck of a unit.
Q. James Franklin mentioned after the game the reason Jahan Johnson was able to get a lot of first team reps was because he learned a new position as an X receiver.  Is that something as an offensive lineman and you guys are conscious of when that's happening in practice?
STEVEN GONZALEZ: Not necessarily.  We really don't notice things like that unless we're told it.  But I didn't even know he had to learn a new position.  But it's just the fact that he stepped up and we didn't even notice that he moved positions is a big attribute of his.  And he's a heck of a player as well.
Q. James talked a lot about the freshmen wide receivers and all the hype around them.  What have you seen from the freshmen, pass catch, not just receivers (inaudible) as well?
STEVEN GONZALEZ: I felt like they've played really well.  Especially Pat.  Pat's stepped up in really big moments, made big plays.  Jahan has been getting in a lot more recently, has been making a lot more plays.  Justin has also made a couple of plays as well.  So just the impact that these freshmen are having especially in game is really important to our offense.
Q. Can you tell me about some of the scout team "D" line men that people may not know about yet but should be keeping an eye out looking forward Culpepper or some of those kids?
STEVEN GONZALEZ: Yeah, Nick Tarburton would be a really good defensive linemen, a little undersized right now obviously because he had to make the transition from linebacker to D end.  But once he finishes out throughout the year and goes through winter and goes through spring, I think he's going to be really good.  He plays really well and plays really hard.  Judd also going to be really good but he just needs time, but he's a big guy and very powerful, very physical.  So I think those are two guys to watch out for.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT