LOUISIANA TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 29, 2016
Trent Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Rice - 16, Louisiana Tech - 61   
 Q.  How does it feel to break that record?  
TRENT TAYLOR: It feels great honestly.  I know this university has produced a bunch of great NFL receivers.  There's a bunch that's come through here and just being able to pass that record tonight, it felt wonderful.  It feels even better when you look around and you've got all your teammates there behind you, supporting you 110 percent.   
They are all just happy to see me do it and it's a great thing to be able to celebrate with all your brothers out there.   
 Q.  You set that record on a night where this team -- what does it say about the program?  
TRENT TAYLOR: I mean, this program is growing tremendously.  I mean, just for the four years that I've been here so far, I mean, from this fieldhouse to the level of play that we like to stay at, I mean, everything's been changing.   
Everything's been growing here at Louisiana Tech and I'm glad that I've been able to be a part of it, helping this program grow and hopefully once I leave, it will continue to grow and be a national powerhouse.   
 Q.  On the catch where you set the record, I can't remember a time where a wide receiver has turned around and stiff-armed a guy that was coming up behind him.  Can you talk about that play a little bit?  
TRENT TAYLOR: Yeah, it's a little tough for me to get those long runs going.  I might not have the best speed in the world, so sometimes you've got to do that.  But I mean, having that catch to break the record on that one, that was a cool feeling, instead of it being a little two-yard double route or something like that.  But I mean, it was a great feeling.   
 Q.  I'm sure you were already asked this, but what are your thoughts when you come up from that catch and you hear the crowd?  I know you said earlier that you haven't really thought about it too much, but it's inevitable, seeing it on social media and hearing your teammates talk about it, when you finally accomplished that goal.  
TRENT TAYLOR: It was incredible if I'm being honest with you.  Once I got the catch and then I heard the announcer say it, and just to hear the whole stadium start screaming and cheering for me, just looking around, seeing everybody standing up, cheering for that accolade, it was a cool feeling.   
And then just looking around, seeing your brothers out there on the field and they are all congratulating me, as well.  That's definitely a moment that I won't forget.   
 Q.  Last couple games against Rice -- said they were expecting a close game and sure enough it wasn't.  Did any of this surprise you, being able to start so hot and go up 41-0?  
TRENT TAYLOR: I wouldn't say I was surprised but I knew it wasn't going to be something that was given to us.  Like Coach has told us all week, if we're 30 points better than them, let's be 30 points better than them, and not go out and play down to a lower team's level.   
And I think we did a great job of going out there and executing as an offense and especially as a defense.  They a tremendous job out there tonight.  I mean, yeah, that's what happens when you come out there with the right focus no matter who you're playing, then we got the job done.   
 Q.  How many times in a conference game do you get to rest your starters for almost a complete half; what does that do going forward the next couple weeks?  
TRENT TAYLOR: I think that was huge for us.  I didn't play a snap in the second half, so I mean, most of the starters are able to get their legs back before -- well, I don't think we really lost our legs tonight.  We just did our job in the first half and we were able to get out.   
Going through this last stretch of the season, I think that will be huge for us, just to get everybody back healthy and continue with our success.   
 Q.  Coach said last week -- was this the most complete win, collectively?  
TRENT TAYLOR: I guess could you say that.  I know our defense out there, they were dominating the whole entire game.  It just sucks to see them get a couple touchdowns at the end of the game, but I mean, they played great.  I love seeing them out there dominating, just controlling the game.   
It was kind of wearing out the offense because we were just going right back on the field after three downs.  It's great to see them with all that success.   
 Q.  What did it feel like to see your own sideline, the twos that are in there, they are able to move up-and-down the field, it should make you feel good for the future.  Can you talk about the State of the program and going forward?  
TRENT TAYLOR: Right, we know that our twos, they can go out there and compete, just like the ones can.  I mean, they have got to be guys that are ready to go in the game if anybody goes down, and I mean, what you saw tonight, I think we do a great job with our ones and our twos, just keeping our twos prepared for any type of situation, and they went out there tonight and showed that.   
 Q.  This defense has taken their bumps this season.  What have you seen in practice that's improving to see the performance they had today on the field?  
TRENT TAYLOR: I think they just have a mentality of, you know, don't look around and start blaming people.  You've just got to keep fighting, keep chopping at the wood every single day, every single week.   
I mean, they haven't given up on each other on that defensive side and the offense definitely hasn't given up on them.  We believe they can get the job done any week and that's something they showed tonight and they are continuing to get better every single week, and I love seeing that.   
 Q.  Another dominating performance in October -- in two of the last four years, and I know you're excited for the home stretch, but sad to see October go with the way y'all have been playing?  
TRENT TAYLOR: I mean, it's whatever -- I don't know why we've been so successful in October.  I guess it's just something that, I mean, something random that happens.  I don't really think too much about it.  I think we're all feeling good and confident going into November and the rest of December.  I like the way things are moving right now.   
 Q.  How do you feel at this point, as opposed to maybe the last couple years, specifically the last year heading into November for the home stretch?  
TRENT TAYLOR: Shoot, I don't know.  I think we're kind of in the same position last year, just got to finish it out.  And then kind of play against Southern Miss to see who will go to the championship.  I think it's kind of one of those same type of things.   
But we've got to continue to remain focused on each and every week, just like we did tonight with Rice and go out and execute each game.   
 Q.  With Ryan, we've all known that he can run, but we haven't seen his running ability that we saw tonight.  Do you think seeing that makes your offense even more difficult to stop?  
TRENT TAYLOR: Yeah, we've always known that Ryan can run whenever he can get in some open field.  I mean, he's just waited for his opportunity for that.  He does a great job of rolling out of the pocket and extending the plays.  You know, throwing it, rolling out.  I mean, he just finally had an opportunity to take one distance, and he definitely did that tonight and took advantage of it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT