LOUISIANA TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 1, 2016
Trent Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








UTEP - 7, Lousiana Tech - 28
Q. After a disastrous road trip, how does that feel?
TRENT TAYLOR: It feels great.  We've been waiting to get back on the field and make up for the losses we've had earlier in the season, and we were able to do exactly that.  It felt great, being in front of your fans, and being able to come out with a victory like that and confidence, it's a wonderful feeling.  I'm in a great mood right now, that's for sure.
Q. What was your takeaway from a win like that, going back to the first two drives, the offense had not scored since -- do you feel fortunate to come away with a win?
TRENT TAYLOR: Yeah, I don't know what it was, offense just kind of went on a drought after we scored those first two touchdowns.  I mean, we've just got to go back and look at the film and see what we can do to fix it, because that's unacceptable.
I feel like we should have blown away with that game pretty early, the way we were looking on those first two touchdowns early in the game.
The defense stepped up and played big for us, which is exactly what we needed.  You know, props to them and Coach Baker.  They did a wonderful job.  I mean, yeah, the defense kind of carried us that game.
Q. When you get so few possessions, you only had 50 plays compared to last week when you had 96 --
TRENT TAYLOR: When you go out there in a game like this against a team like UTEP, you've got to take advantage of your drives, which I don't think we did as well as we should have as an offense.
Like I said, there's a lot of room for improvement.  We've got to learn how to take advantage of every play that we've got just to, I mean, not think about the next one but just take advantage of what we've got and be focused on that single play.
I think our mind-set as an offense as a whole is pretty well -- we've still just got some details that we need to sharpen up.
Q. Once the UTEP defense got tired, you seemed to take off, and really put a period on the end of the sentence -- what do you think he did early in the game to set those runs up?
TRENT TAYLOR: I think Jarred Craft is a complete beast.  I mean, whenever we give him the ball, he fights for those yards, and I mean, he is a guy that's not going to give up on that first tackle.  He's going to find a way to keep pushing, put his head down and get the yards that we need to for this team.  I love watching him run.
Just once he broke that long run there late in the game, I mean, it was a great feeling.  I love watching him run.
Q. I think Monday you used the word cruise control to describe how you played against Middle Tennessee --
TRENT TAYLOR: It was pretty much the same exact thing as an offense against Middle Tennessee that we did tonight.  I mean, shoot, we got to find a way to fix it because that's not going to win us a championship if the offense is on and on like that throughout the game.
Q. Do you feel UTEP did something different defensively in the second half?
TRENT TAYLOR: I don't think they did too much of a change because they still started stopping us in the first half, as well as the second half.  So I think it was more on us as an offense to fix the problems that we had out there and be able to sharpen those problems up.
Q. Did UTEP cover you like you thought they would?  Were you surprised the way they covered you, seemed to leave you kind of open a lot of the game?
TRENT TAYLOR: I mean, I don't know, that's not something I think about too often.  I just know they started playing some man, and we were able to take advantage of it a couple times.  I thought Ryan and the O-line did a great job of facilitating that and controlling the offense when they switched it up on us.
I mean, we did our job as an offense, when it came to the end of it and lucky to come away with the win.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT