SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 10, 2006
Derrick Byars
Kevin Stallings
Julian Terrell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  THE MODERATOR:  We're ready to begin with Vanderbilt.  We'll ask Coach, if he will, to give us some opening remarks and then we'll take questions for Julian and Derrick.  Coach.  
 COACH KEVIN STALLINGS:  Well, I think that the story of the game was just that they were better than us.  They were quicker to balls, and Davis was obviously dominate in every facet and, that's probably the best that I've seen LSU play with or without Tyrus Thomas, and I didn't think they were capable of playing as well without him as they can play with him, and I believe that's the best that I've seen them play, and you just give them a lot of credit.   
 They're a confident team.  They play well together.  They defend you very well.  They rebound the ball great, and tonight they were just much, much better than we were.   
  THE MODERATOR:  We'll take questions first for the Julian and Derrick.  If you have one for either of them, please raise your hand, and we'll get a microphone to you.  Hands up.  Questions.  Start right here.  Go ahead.  
  Q.  Derrick, were you surprised by how lethal Davis was at least from the outside?  I think everybody knows about his low post play, but at least his outside shooting?   
 DERRICK BYARS:  No, I knew about his outside shooting as well.  He's multifaceted and he showed it all tonight.   
  THE MODERATOR:  Hands up.  Any other questions for either?  Okay.  Go ahead.  
  Q.  Both players, if you guys go on with this season, what do you feel like you guys have left to kind of dip into the tank, and what do you have left to give kind of if the season goes on that the point?   
  THE MODERATOR:  Julian, go first, please.  
 JULIAN TERRELL:  I think we still have a lot left.  Obviously, we're a team that doesn't give up.  So, you know, whatever is facing, put in front, you have, we'll just go at it and try our best to do what we can from here on out.   
  THE MODERATOR:  Derrick.  
 DERRICK BYARS:  Well, I have to say that Julian and Mario, this is their last go-round as everybody knows.  I'm playing for those guys.  That is my last go-round with them.  We have a lot to play for.   
  THE MODERATOR:  Other questions for either Julian or Derrick, raise your hand.  Alright.  
  Q.  This is for Julian.  Y'all had a little bit more success with Glen the first time y'all played.  What was different this time?   
 JULIAN TERRELL:  Obviously his outside shooting.  We knew he could shoot, but, you know, it seems like he pretty much knocked down every shot he took within 20 feet.  So he did a great job today, so you got to congratulate him.  He just got to the free throw line.  He was hitting his free throws and outside shot.   
  THE MODERATOR:  Other questions?  Raise your hand.  Okay.  Fellas, we'll excuse you.  You can return to the locker room.  Thank you.  And we'll continue on with questions for Coach Stallings.  If you have a question for coach, please raise your hand.  Go ahead, David.  
  Q.  Kevin, how well do you think you guys played?  Was it just such a misfit physically?   
 COACH KEVIN STALLINGS:  I didn't think we played very well, but I didn't think that we were given much of an opportunity to play well because they start off the game in the first half, they have two guys shooting 27 and 30 percent respectively from the 3-pointer line to make 5 for 5.  When you put that on top of how dominate Glen was, it's very difficult.   
 So, it's one thing if Darrel Mitchell is out there, he's the guy out there beating you from the perimeter because he's very capable.  Over the course of the season these other two guys haven't proven to be very consistent, and tonight they shot it great.   
 So when they get the inside/outside thing going, they got in their groove and -- I didn't think that we played particularly well, but I don't think that -- I thought it was much more of a case of them overwhelming us than it was us playing poorly.   
  THE MODERATOR:  Question.  
  Q.  Kevin, was it part of the game plan to back off of Glen a little bit to keep him out of inside?   
 COACH KEVIN STALLINGS:  We weren't planning to back off that far.  I think that we had some players take it on themselves to -- you know, he hit one of his two 3-pointers he had in league play the first time.  It wasn't as though his outside shots caught us by surprise, but we weren't planning to let him stand there and shoot wide open shots.  That wasn't the plan.   
 That was -- then he made a couple, and then as we got up on him, he started driving and drawing fouls and started making everything he looked at.  So -- but, again, it's -- it was just a case of him being better.   
  THE MODERATOR:  Hands up.  Go to the aisle.  
  Q.  Kevin, will you guys accept an NIT invitation?   
 COACH KEVIN STALLINGS:  Absolutely.  Absolutely.  It's what we've earned.   
  THE MODERATOR:  Hands up.  Other questions?  
 COACH KEVIN STALLINGS:  All you can hope for in your life is to get what you earn, and not only will we accept it, we'll accept it and be excited about it.   
  THE MODERATOR:  Hands up, other questions?  Anybody?  Okay.  Go to the left side.  
  Q.  Kevin, along those lines, what do you feel like you guys would have left in an NIT situation, just to kind of dip down again and go to the well?   
 COACH KEVIN STALLINGS:  Well, you know, do you love to play or do you not love to play?  We've got a very classic example right within our own little basketball family of how much of a privilege playing is and how fast it can be taken away.   
 And if our guys can't get excited after what they watched earlier in this week, if they can't be excited to play, they need to turn their uniform in, because we've got a young man that can't play anymore and -- now, our guys have played hard all season long, so I'm not the least bit concerned about what's left in the tank and all that kind of stuff.   
 If you have an opportunity to play, then doggone it, you go out and play to the best of your ability, and you try to win and do everything you can to prepare to win.  But the minute you start taking playing for granted and you don't understand that it's a privilege -- there is no right involved in it; it's a privilege, it's a privilege to coach the game, and it's a privilege to play the game, and if players don't understand that, then they're missing one of the most important lessons that this game has to offer.   
  THE MODERATOR:  Hands up.  Any more questions for coach?  
  Q.  Kevin, it seemed like the circumstances of the technical you got was one where coaches ask questions.  Were you surprised by the reaction of the referee?   
 COACH KEVIN STALLINGS:  Yeah, I was a little surprised.  I just wanted to ask a question.  I even motioned for John to come over.  I was trying to interrupt his television interview, so I get him over there with me so he could hear the question I wanted to ask.   
 You're supposed to have the other coach present, and apparently Mike didn't like the notion that I wanted to ask a question out at midcourt.  Can't say that I blame him.   
  THE MODERATOR:  Hands up.  Any other questions?  Alright.  Thank you.  
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT