ROLAND GARROS
June 5, 2018
Marco Cecchinato
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
M. CECCHINATO/N. Djokovic   
6-3, 7-6, 1-6, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  Congratulations.  That was an amazing win.  A great atmosphere on court, and you played some amazing tennis.  Tell us right now, what does that win mean to you?  
MARCO CECCHINATO: Yeah, you said good, amazing tennis today.  I was two sets up against Novak.  In the third, I was a little bit tired.  Also, in the fourth, I was two break down, and I start to play very well.  And on the tiebreak, I played very, very well tiebreak, so many chance match point, and very good points.   
And in the end, I won the match.  Is amazing for me.   
 Q.  I asked you after you beat Goffin how do you go from practice partners to opponents?  What's your answer to me now after you have beat him?  
MARCO CECCHINATO: I know very well Novak.  And after the match, he told me congrats.  And I was very, very happy after the match.   
 Q.  After the match, you and Novak shared a very warm exchange.  What does that mean to you for him to share that moment with you at your moment of victory?  
MARCO CECCHINATO: Yeah, we shared the moment after my victory.  And Novak is a very good person and is unbelievable for me.  Novak change the court and he told me, Congrats, man, and is unbelievable for you and good luck.   
Is a dream for me.   
 Q.  Until 10 days ago, you had never won a Grand Slam match.  Now you're in a Grand Slam semifinal.  You just beat Novak Djokovic.  How do you explain what you've done over the last 10 days?  
MARCO CECCHINATO: I'm very, very happy, because before the Roland Garros is, for me, was very good moment.  But when I won the first match in Grand Slam, I feel good.   
And match by match, I feel now I can won also the next round.  And also against Carreno Busta, before the match I was very focused, and now I'm -- is a special moment for me.   
 Q.  Can you describe the emotions in this last tiebreak where there was some crazy points?  And also, was it difficult to hold your nerves and really believe you could do it in this tiebreak?  
MARCO CECCHINATO: Yeah, is tough to say the emotion in the tiebreak.  I was very nervous because so many chance, so many match point.   
And on the third, I think, I was the ball for winner, and I put the ball and so-and-so, and after, on the return, when I saw on the line, it was the best moment of my life (smiling).   
 Q.  Two years ago you were in this kind of mess, and right now you're in semis.  What's your feeling about this incredible story?  
MARCO CECCHINATO: Is tough to say (smiling).  Because now I need to realize the moment, because I will play the semifinal in Roland Garros.  Is tough to say the emotion.  Is very tough.  Sorry.   
 Q.  Why did you get the warning?  
MARCO CECCHINATO: Because I went to the locker room for took the shoes, and the rules was I need to go to the bathroom.  And I don't know before the rules, and I took the shoes.  Is not possible, that.   
 Q.  Whatever happens in the semifinals, how do you think your life will change after this tournament?  
MARCO CECCHINATO: I think it's changed the life.  So after Roland Garros, I need some rest and to realize the moment, and we will see my life.   
 Q.  Was Roland Garros a tournament you dreamt about when you were a kid?  What does it mean for you?  
MARCO CECCHINATO: I don't know (smiling).   
No, I work very hard on my team, and I'm very focused every match.  I work out every day on preparation and also in the tournament.  So I think this is the key?   
 Q.  When you're in a tiebreak against Novak, can you just concentrate on playing your game and your tennis, or is there a little voice in your head saying this is Novak, he usually wins in these situations?  
MARCO CECCHINATO: Also when I start, I think this is Novak, no, in the tiebreak.  So every set I think, against Novak is...   
And on the tiebreak is a little tension for won the match, but I was very focus on every points.  I played very, very good points on match point.   
 Q.  Your ranking now will be inside the top 30.  You'll be seeded for Wimbledon.  
MARCO CECCHINATO: (Smiling.)   
 Q.  Can you believe how far you have come?  Did you always think you were capable of this level?  
MARCO CECCHINATO: Is good for my opponent in Wimbledon.  (Laughter.)   
Yeah, you said good.  In Wimbledon, I need to play two tournaments before, because this year I change the plans.  And last year, I arrive the day before on Wimbledon for ranking.   
And now, for this ranking, I can play two tournaments before.  So I can prepare the Wimbledon better from last year.  And we will see.  Why not can I win also the match in grass?  (Smiling.)   
 Q.  You have a "13" on your right arm.  Are you superstitious?  Are you going to do some rituals or special things before your next match?  
MARCO CECCHINATO: So many rituals before the match.  So many.   
Is my number and I like, so the 13.  And I want to tattoo, and I like the tattoo, and so for that is my number.   
 Q.  I'm sorry to come back to what happened in 2016.  Do you think this was, like, a mistake of youth?  
MARCO CECCHINATO: You ask me again.  Also last day you ask me, and I told you I don't want to speak for that.  I want to think for this moment in my life.  And so next time, no, please.  Thank you.   
 Q.  You face Dominic Thiem next.  Given what you've been through, you have the belief now to go all the way to the final?  
MARCO CECCHINATO: Yeah.  I won last match against Dominic Thiem, I think, was the final in one Future.  (Laughter.)   
So I remember this match, and why no?  I want to be believe for beat also Dominic Thiem.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT