ROLAND GARROS
June 3, 2018
Marco Cecchinato
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
M. CECCHINATO/D. Goffin   
7-5, 4-6, 6-0, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  When you won the ATP event in Hungary this year, did you ever think you'd go this far in a Grand Slam?  
MARCO CECCHINATO: No.  For me, this is the best moment of my life.  Maybe is a dream, because now I'm very, very happy for this match.   
Yeah, now I need to do treatment and for realize this moment.   
 Q.  You never won a Grand Slam match before this tournament.  What do you think has changed for you here?  
MARCO CECCHINATO: Now I start the match every time focused.  I need to think I put my game and every match, and I am more aggressive during the match, and so I stay every point focus and I think this is the different from before.   
 Q.  Tell us about how you were feeling during the last few matches and your emotions at the end of the game when you started to celebrate.  It was wonderful to see.  
MARCO CECCHINATO: I feel very good, because every match I play very well.  Now I beat David Goffin, is one of the best players in the world.   
So I feel very good also on the court, because I'm playing very, very good, aggressive, focused.   
So is fantastic for me.   
 Q.  You play Novak Djokovic next.  How are you looking forward to going up against a guy who has won 12 Grand Slam titles?  
MARCO CECCHINATO: For me is amazing.  Is a pleasure playing against Novak in quarterfinal at Roland Garros.   
For me, is a pleasure.   
 Q.  When we look at your form on clay so far this season, as we have said, you played well in Budapest.  Other than that, it has been hit-and-miss.  Why all of a sudden are you in such great form?  And as you've said, you have beaten two players in the top 10 so far.  Why such an amazing week here at Roland Garros?  
MARCO CECCHINATO: I think it start from the preseason, because every day I was very focused on the practice on court and also in the gym.   
So I think this is the different from past.  So is a big different for me, because I start the year play very well, so now this is the best moment of my life because I feel every match good, so I think this is the different.   
 Q.  Novak said he's practiced with you in Monte-Carlo.  How do you turn from practice partners to opponents?  
MARCO CECCHINATO: So is totally different from practice and to the match (smiling).   
 Q.  How does your mind switch from that element?  
MARCO CECCHINATO: I don't know.  I need to speak with my team and that's it.   
 Q.  You seem to be freer in your mind because of the past.  Can you tell us about that?  The story of fixing matches.  
MARCO CECCHINATO: I don't want to speak with this.  Sorry.   
 Q.  I know that you have only just come off court after your incredible win.  Have you had a chance to receive any messages from friends or family or people who are supporting you?  If so, what have they said?  
MARCO CECCHINATO: I don't check the phone, because I think is very a lot message.   
So I took shower and cryobath, and now after the dinner I think to do some message answer, so maybe later.   
 Q.  You'll have a very busy night.  
MARCO CECCHINATO: Yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT