THE LPGA DRIVE ON CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY VOLVIK
March 4, 2021
Jing Yan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Jing, thank you so much for taking the time.  Talk us through your round today.  You started off with bogey and bounced back really quickly with four birdies and the rest pars on your front nine and then also two more birdies on the back nine.  How did that happen?
 JING YAN:   Well, I started off with a bogey and missed that kind of easy up and down, so I wanted to get one back.  There are quite a number of scorable holes on that back nine.  Whenever I kind of had a wedge or a 9-iron in my hand I just tried to stick it and have like a close birdie putt to try to catch up.
 Hit it pretty good and just felt like I was on a roll there for a while.  Then on the front nine you had couple of like the more difficult holes, so I just tried to keep myself in position and try to make some longer putts and try to hit it close if I can.
 Q. What was your most memorable birdie out there.  You had six of them.  What was maybe your shortest putt or most memorable?
 JING YAN:   My No. 8, so that was No. 17.
 Q. Yes.
 JING YAN:   I think I almost holed it.  I hit it to two inches, I think.  That's a tough hole, so I'm pretty happy with that.
 Q. What was your goal coming into this week?
 JING YAN:   Nothing too specific really.  I just wanted to maybe stay under par and get as many birdies as I can out there.
 With the greens so firm it's not easy, so I know that if I make few good putts and hit a few good shots I'll be in a pretty good position.
 Q. A lot players are hovering around minue-3, minus-four, maybe getting to minus-5.  Do you think it's easier to get low this week than maybe other courses?
 JING YAN:   I think there is definitely a lot of opportunities out there, but with the greens being firm and the rough, the kind of long bermuda that grabs your ball, it can make it difficult if you miss the green to save up and down as opposed to other weeks.
 So on the short holes you got to really try to hit it close and hit as many greens as you can.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT