ANA INSPIRATION
April 5, 2019
Jing Yan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Kind of taking a bit of a step back with your recent increased performance, you found two rounds in the 60s at the end of Kia Classic.  What did you find in your game?
JING YAN: I think it's mostly the work I put in with my coach and also the China National Team in the off-season.  That's really given me a lot more consistency in my game, especially in my long game, which I was struggling with last year.
So that's helped a lot.  Like getting to play Kia and Founders and here is just a good boost of confidence to see what the results are during tournament play instead of just during practice.
Q. What did you do with the China National Team in the off-season?
JING YAN: I practiced at CBC Sawgrass for a couple days, almost a week I think, and it was good to be able to play there.
Got some work done with my swing and putting, yeah.
Q. Last year you missed a lot of cuts in a row.  What were you telling yourself to keep grinding and working on your game?
JING YAN: It was pretty tough, but I started working with my coach, Ted Oh, and really, between him and my dad and my mom, my parents, everybody who is supporting me, they helped keep me up.  Especially some of my friends just said, Don't worry about it.  You're a good player.  Take it one shot at a time.
Eventually we were able to figure out some problems.  Hopefully.  Yeah, been playing a little bit better, so that's good.
Q. What were the problems you guys figured out?
JING YAN: Just with my long game.  Just needed to clean up the technique a little bit.  I was hitting a lot of shots right, so try to avoid that miss.  Just overall get my consistency a little bit better, my greens a little bit better, and I think I've improved that stat this year.
Q. It's one thing for your friends to tell you, You're a good golfer.  It's another to try and believe it.
JING YAN: Yeah.
Q. At what point did you start to really buy into that?
JING YAN: I feel like it was really tough to believe in myself, especially with the scores I was shooting last year.  I think this year really helped during the winter training when I was shooting couple lower scores and this year coming out into tournaments and shooting numbers in the 60s.  That helps me confidence a little bit.
Just keep telling yourself that you're going to hit good shots no matter what the outcome is.
Q. Was there anyone else on the LPGA Tour with you other China National Team?
JING YAN: We didn't bump into each other a lot.  It was mostly like -- I think Shanshan was there for a bit, yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT