KIA CLASSIC
March 28, 2019
Jing Yan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So this is your second start of the 2019 season.  Last week you were DQd.  What happened there and what was the mental preparation like going into this week?  
JING YAN: Well, last week I had a problem with one of the rules regarding yardage book reads, and, you know, it was kind of tough to have that happen on the first tournament of the year.  I take full responsibility for it.  I should have been more careful with the rules.   
I guess it's good that it happened early in the year so now I can just focus on trying to continue playing better for the rest of the year.   
 Q.  What were you working on in the off-season to help you gear up for this season?  
JING YAN: Yeah, I did a lot of work with my coach in the off-season trying to get my swing to be a little bit more consistent, especially after last year where I was struggling a little bit with my long game in general and just my game in general.   
It was good to get some confidence back.  Yeah, we worked out a couple things to do that helped me out.  Not try to search for something every tournament.  Yeah, big boost in confidence.   
 Q.  Who's your coach?  Who else do you work with?  
JING YAN: I work with Teed Oh.  Been working with him since middle of last year.  Yeah, I feel like it's really good partnership.  Yeah, he gives me a lot of things that made me feel more confident about my game.   
 Q.  That's great.  So hopefully you're able to make more cuts and make it out this year.  What are your goals this week and also for the season?  
JING YAN: Strange, because this year I haven't really set any because I guess just like the way I played last year.  I had some goals in mind that I just did not reach at all.   
Mostly just trying to take it one round at a time.  I know it sounds cliche, but just trying to be more confident with myself in general.   
 Q.  So when you did go through some of those struggles of disappointing finishes and stuff like that, what helped you continue on and press on?  Who helped you?  
JING YAN: Well, I think mostly my parents and my coach and a lot of my friends.  They really just kept supporting me and telling me that, Oh, it's temporary.  Someday you're going to be able to play well.  Just try and look forward to that.  Just did everything I could to try to get back to a good place in my game.   
 Q.  Sure.  Great round today.  
JING YAN: Yes.   
 Q.  Talking about the present.  Talk to me about your round and how you felt about it.  Were you satisfied with the score and playing?  
JING YAN: I started off really well; birdied three of the first four.  I struggled a little bit on the greens last week, even though I was hitting it really good.  That was a nice change.   
And just trying to keep it going.  Even though in the middle it got a little bit windy and it was harder to keep the ball exactly where I wanted it to go, I was able to make some par putts and keep it going.   
 Q.  And your dad is on the bag today?  
JING YAN: Uh-huh.   
 Q.  Was he on the bag last week, too?  
JING YAN: Uh-huh.   
 Q.  How instrumental is he in your golf game?  
JING YAN: He's always there.  Been there for me since the day I was born.  He's always very insightful about what I need to do with regards to my game and just where I am mentally.   
I feel like, yeah, it's just good to have him there as a sounding board always.   
 Q.  Is he the one that got you into golf?  
JING YAN: Yeah, I would say so, because his job is related to golf, so it was always around the house and just watching it.  He made me see that it could be really fun and a good sport to be in.   
 Q.  What age did you start golfing?  
JING YAN: Four.  Yeah, early.   
 Q.  So then at what point was it your choice to go to the range and practice?  
JING YAN: From day one.   
 Q.  Always?  
JING YAN: Yeah, because I saw it on TV and thought it was really cool.  I fell in love and just wanted to try it.   
 Q.  Who were some of your idols?  
JING YAN: The normal ones, Tiger, Annika.  Yeah, those were the ones that I really looked up to growing up.  They were the big two I guess.  They did incredible things on the course that people tried to emulate, including me.   
 Q.  How are you going to prepare for the rest of the week?  
JING YAN: Not really doing too much now that the week has started.  If anything, make some adjustments after rounds.  Mostly just trying to get enough rest and get my body in good condition.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT