NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 23, 2002
Goran Ivanisevic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  Shoulder? 

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Yeah. 

Q.  How much longer can this go on before you do something about it? 

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I don't know.  I want to play Wimbledon.  That's my priority.  And if I have a surgery, I can't play Wimbledon.  So...

Q.  What's the plan? 

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  The plan is, I have a couple of choices.  Take two, three months off, play Wimbledon. 

Q.  Is that possible, do you think? 

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  That is only solution. 

Q.  Do you think that's something that you are seriously considering?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Yeah, but worse thing, you know, if I take whole clay off and I come to Wimbledon and then is same pain, then I will hang myself probably in London somewhere.  That would be the worst scenario.  But we have Davis Cup in two weeks which is Argentina on clay which I'm - I don't think  - can't survive seven games on hardcourt.  And I was hoping, you know, yesterday was okay play.  But today it was not good.  I mean, the doctor told me it's a lottery.  It's a lottery which one week can be good, three weeks can be bad.  And that's why I didn't want to operate last year, because I thought with the amount of pain I had last year I could survive another year.  But I was not thinking it was going to be worse, which it is.  Just is getting bigger and bigger and this amount of pain is just more and more, which I cannot handle.

Q.  What does the doctor advise you? 

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  He's told me at least I need one and a half months doing exercise and not play tennis to have a chance to play Wimbledon.  So...

Q.  So no Davis Cup? 

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Most probably no Davis Cup.  I mean, if I gonna  -- I don't think I can last.  Is no fair I go there, play ten games, they gonna put ten kilos of clay on Argentina, the ball is heavy and those guys are good, you know.  So I don't think I can last.

Q.  At this point in your career, you don't need to play any clay court tournaments?  Wimbledon is it for you? 

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I mean, I don't need to play.  I mean, I don't need.  I would love to play but, you know, I want to be there at one o'clock on Monday in London.  So if I am able to do that, I have to see what is my best option, which is not to play for two months most probably.  Maybe see how is going and then play French Open.  But I don't know.  It's tough.  I tell you, it's tough.  I mean, now doctor told me now that I shouldn't play between now and Argentina.  So I come there and it's tough, you know.  I gonna go crazy two and a half months. 

Q.  You've had such a varied career.  I mean, is this kind of the hardest decision you're going to have to make, do you think? 

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I made my dream, you know.  If somebody told me after that  -- before Wimbledon last year, "If you win Wimbledon and don't play tennis again," I'd pick Wimbledon and don't play tennis again.  Maybe when I was thinking about it, maybe God heard me and said, "Okay, is enough for you."   But I want to step one more time there, you know.  And at least if I have to have a surgery after that and come back after six months, you know, I can't finish my career like that, you know. 

Q.  So you can't have surgery now and play Wimbledon? 

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  No.  No.  Is gonna  --.

Q.  You've got to decide?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Is gonna take four months before I hit the ball.  Plus two, three months to get in shape.

Q.  What exactly is the  --?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  It's a tear.

Q.  A tear? 

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  The rotator cuff.  It's growing, it's getting bigger. 

Q.  Every time you play, in effect, it can worsen it? 

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  It can snap.  The best thing to snap completely, that's what the doctor said.  When they put it now together, everything that you repair is not  -- he say I gonna have 75 percent to play without pain.  If everything snaps, then they put it together, they make it great and then is okay.  So, I mean, the best scenario would be snaps everything after Wimbledon, and then I go...  I mean, maybe.  I see.  I don't know.  Maybe after Wimbledon I can take protected ranking and come back at least for half a year, you know, just to, you know...  Like this is just killing me.  I know I am playing good.  I want to play and I can't play, you know.  I am hoping, you know, my prayers, they don't get...  So it's...

Q.  How much is this affecting your pride, to have to withdraw from one event?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I hate to withdraw.  I mean, that's why in Palm Springs I didn't want to play before.  But in these days, it was okay, playable.  Yesterday was playable.  I mean, the other day I play one set with Pavel, it was okay.  I could play.  But like the doctor said, it's a lottery.  Every day I wake up, it's lottery.  Plus, this hurt me little bit.  I'd rather play during days more warmer and it's easier, you know.  The balls are pretty heavier.  I can hit serves.  But as soon as I hit this big serve, I can't hit a second shot.  It's just my arm, it's just killing me, you know.

Q.  What would you say if you had to put it in a percentage, your chances of being there the first Monday of Wimbledon?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I gonna be there.  I have to be there.  At least as a spectator (smiling).  I mean, I try to do everything.  But like I said, it would be worst that I don't play now for two months and I come to Wimbledon or Queen's and then, again, the same thing.  That would be... I mean disaster.  But that's life.  But I gonna do everything.  Try to do my exercise, try to do everything and to have condition like I had last year during Wimbledon.

Q.  Because everything you said since Wimbledon has  been part of winning Wimbledon is defending Wimbledon for you?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Yeah, everything.  I mean, I got my chance.  I made my dream.  I made my everything, you know, for all what I was working in my life.  And maybe is time to go, you know.  But I don't want to leave in this way, you know.  I don't want to leave.  At least if I stop tennis, I have to stop in a nice way.  I mean nice way, just that I play and I say, "It's enough.  I can't deal with it anymore."  Surgery, no surgery, I have to finish one match properly. 

Q.  Will you be in Buenos Aires playing Davis Cup?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I have to decide.  Maybe I go there to support the team.  (Inaudible) I've never been to Argentina and I would like to go there.  But I can't survive here, seven games.  I don't think on clay I can survive.  Plus they gonna put a lot of clay there, very slow, and those guys, they're good players.  (Inaudible) Chela, Canas, they are... With the spectators, it's gonna be tough.  So I don't think I have a chance to finish this match. 

Q.  Any chance you will play doubles?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  It's a possibility.  That's I consider, you know, maybe.  I have to see these two, three days.  It's a tough decision, you know.  I am here now, I want to go so badly there.  It's a good chance for us, like you, to go into the semis.  I have to think.  My first priority is Wimbledon.  If I want to be there, I have to stop for two months.  So...  But most probably I will go there to see how beautiful your country is as a tourist, you know. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT