ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 20, 1993
Goran Ivanisevic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Goran, what about your health today; I think  the way you played, it is all right?  

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Yeah, it was good.  I was a little bit tired  in the second set, and then he took the chance, and he  put few returns in.  I hit late volleys and he passed  me pretty easy.  But it was okay.  It was good.  


Q.  It is always a German who stops you on the  way to the final in Frankfurt.  

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Yeah, always.  I don't know why I have SOME  complex against Germans, but it always has to be some  dramatic finish.  He had 6-3 in the tiebreaker, then I said, I  mean, it is no fun if he finishes now, so I have to hit  some good returns.  Then I hit a good return.  Then I  had a chances, but, I mean, all the match I was coming  from behind.  I mean, he had the more chances than I.  Second set I had a break, but didn't last for  long time.  He break me straight-a-way and pretty  easy.  But, I mean, he is playing very good.  He is  very confident.  He hit some big serves on the --  especially on my set point, he hit a second set on the  line, unbelievable fast, I didn't have any chance.  


Q.  Goran, you had no medication at all during  the match or before the match?  

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  No, maybe this was why I lost the match, I  should take something.  


Q.  Talk about the end of the year for you and  how satisfied you are with the last two, three months.  

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Yeah, I mean, it was unbelievable.  All my  year was like three months.  That was my year, last  three months.  I didn't play first six, seven months,  it was holidays.  Then last three months, I really play  tennis and now I finish the year in great way.  I play  a great match today and now I have to prepare for next  year.  I have to be ready and start without injuries  and try to play good because I don't have any points to  defend and I really have to be ready to start fresh.  


Q.  So you will have a medical checkup  definitely?  

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Yeah, I am going to have medical checkup but  when I rest a little bit and when I put some kilos back  I think I am going to be okay.  


Q.  Any thoughts on tomorrow?  

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Pete -- I think Pete is favorite in the match  but you never know.  Michael is serving pretty big and  he is very confident.  I mean, if you give him a  chance, he is tough to cool him down.  I mean, then he  is playing unbelievable.  He is on the net very  confident; moving good; playing great volleys.  I don't  know, I mean, Pete has to play very good.  I don't know  how good he is going to return, but he has to play good  tennis.  But I think Pete is my favorite for tomorrow.  


Q.  Do you agree Goran that the meeting tomorrow,  the final is the meeting of the two best players in the  world by now?  

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  They are in the final, so probably they are  the best.  This is World Championship, so if you want  to say it that way, they are the best right now.  


Q.  No more questions?  

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  No more, great.   


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT