ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 19, 1993
Goran Ivanisevic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Goran, your game, was it the same problem as  yesterday?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Yeah, I was breathing very hard again; it was  tough.  But it was only for a couple of games, then he  gave me again the thing to smell.  I was okay then  after that.   
 

Q.  You took medicine?  You smelled something?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Yeah, he gave me some -- not medicine, just  put it under my nose, and I can smell and I can breath  normally again.   
 

Q.  Same thing as yesterday?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Same thing as yesterday.   
 

Q.  What happened to you twice when you served  for the set, first set and second set?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  First set, I played little bad game.  First  he played terrible game at 4-3.  He never misses that  backhand volley.  Never saw it in my life.  Missed a  couple of volleys.  Then I played it.  At 5-4, I think  he played a great game.  First, he passed me on the  first point.  Then, second point, I hit a great serve  down the middle, and he hit unbelievable forehand  return.  Then I hit a doublefault.  And then on 30-40,  he hit it again; this I hit a first serve; he hit a  backhand; he came in, and it was just too fast.  You can't do anything after that, I mean, you  just -- then I, in tiebreak, I made this easy mistake  with the smash.  I wanted to change my mind, but I was  really clear in my -- I mean, I was really -- I think  one of the best matches ever I play mentally.  I was  really clear all -- and I knew I have to stay with him  because I knew he is going to -- he is going to play  one loose game; then I am going to have my chance and I  did it.   
 

Q.  Did you think that he is going to break you  again in the third set?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  No, because I was really strong.  I was --  didn't -- he didn't have any chance.  I was serving  very good.  Every time I was really close I serve ace.  Last game at 4-3 I felt a little bit that I have to  stay that game with him and I am going to get a chance,  so I get the first chance in the third set and I just  hit a return and that was it.   
 

Q.  Is this problem which you use the smelling  thing, is that just something you are learning to live  with now?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I hope not because I mean -- because it is  very bad, the taste, you know, so I hope this is -- I  mean, this is the last tournament, so after this I take  little off, I hope I am going to feel okay.   
 

Q.  Do you feel well or is it just --  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Just I start to feel dizzy and then if I  can't breath I feel dizzy a little bit, my body feels a  little shaky.   
 

Q.  Are you going to see a doctor tonight or  tomorrow?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  No, no.  I think -- I am okay for this  tournament.  It is okay, but maybe after all this I am  going to maybe make a checkup to see what is going on.   
 

Q.  Goran, this time last week you must have felt  your chances of being here were slim; let alone being  in the semifinal.  Your thoughts now?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Yeah, I was sweating in front of TV last week  hoping that Pioline was going to lose and now I am here  now, I am in the semifinals and last year I played  Boris; now I play another German, Michael, so I hope --  I think it is going to be a good match.  It is going to  be -- we both going to serve and volley.  I had chances  two weeks ago in Stockholm, so this is going to be a  good match.  It is going to be good for the people and  I give it my best and we see what is going to happen.   
 

Q.  Last week, against Pioline, you didn't seem  to be very motivated in the second set you didn't play  --  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Yeah, I didn't play -- I was really tired.  I  was tired from the first round.  For the finals I was  just -- it was too much.  Because Pioline, you have to  be really clear to beat him because he is a very good  player and I was not ready to beat him that day.  It  was really too much.   
 
 
Q.  Thank you.      
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT