ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 18, 1993
Goran Ivanisevic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Goran, are you as satisfied the way you  played?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Well, I think I hit the ball great,  especially from the back.  I mean, I was feeling not so  great, so I had to play pretty fast, but I think I play  good match, because he didn't play bad at all.   
 

Q.  What was given to you because we saw that you  were sneezing or something?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Drugs.  Something very bad smell, but makes  me clear my nose and goes into your brain.  It is very  strong - I don't know what it was, but it is -- it was  okay.   
 

Q.  What were you feeling?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I start to feel very dizzy.  Like my heart  was going pretty fast.  I couldn't breathe.  After  every long point we play, I couldn't breathe, and I  didn't know what is happening.  Then I was also -- my  whole part of the body were really slow, like dead.  I  didn't know what is happening.  And they gave me  something to drink and that thing and that helped me a  little bit.   
 

Q.  Was it anything like you felt in Monte Carlo?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I was getting afraid, because started in  Monte Carlo and I went to hospital.  I spent 4 worse  days in my life, but now I check the blood pressure  blood, everything, the heart and the doctor says it is  okay, so no worries.   
 

Q.  Were you feeling ill before you went on  court, or was it just during the match?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  No, I mean, I felt this morning, I didn't  practice too long.  I practiced for ten minutes only  and then this -- then I felt okay, but then as soon as  I came on the court, I felt a little bit dizzy, and  then the match was going on and on.  I felt bad, worse  and worse, but then after a couple of last games I felt  okay.   
 

Q.  Have you any idea what causes it, Goran?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I don't know.  Maybe a little bit more  nervous than usual.  Now I have to -- when you come to  the last week of the year, you know, this is last  couple of matches and you want to finish and, you know,  you have a little bit enough and you are a little bit  nervous.  You know you have to win both the matches  like this one and the next one, so maybe from that, I  don't know.  I don't know the reason, but I hope  tomorrow it is going to be okay.   
 

Q.  Is it a cold, Goran?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  No, it is not a cold.  He just gave me  because I can breath-- because I couldn't breathe  normally, so they gave me this thing so I can breath  again normally.   
 

Q.  Do you feel perfectly all right now?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I feel great.  I took some vitamins and I  feel good.   
 

Q.  Goran, Jim was reading a book last night  during his match on changeovers against Andre.  Do you  have any thoughts on that?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  No, I saw it.  It was pretty funny.  I don't  know, I mean, that is his -- maybe -- I don't know,  last couple of months he is not-- I don't know, he is  not playing well, so I don't know why he was reading,  maybe he had a reason to read that book.  But --   
 

Q.  Did you ever consider doing that?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  No, I rather read a newspaper, something more  interesting.   
 

Q.  Thank you.

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT