ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 15, 1993
Goran Ivanisevic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  How do you explain your chances and your  performance after the U.S. Open?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  (inaudible) I was working very hard before  U.S. Open and now the year, I just couldn't win the  match.  Then after U.S. Open, I just started to win.  You get confidence when you win.  And then I won a  couple of matches.  Everything started in Vienna.  (inaudible) I had almost no chance and took the  wildcard, came here and I played good, won a  tournament, went to Stockholm; I had to defend a lot of  points, two matchpoints down, won a tournament and  after I played final, but I almost won a tournament,  but after that, I knew I played good tennis.  And that  I just have to concentrate and try to play good in  Paris and I play every match great except first round.  I was match point down again, but I won the match and I  beat like four top players in a row.   
 

Q.  Did you watch last Saturday, did you  (inaudible)  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I went to Cinema.  I sleep and when Pete play  I went to Cinema.  So I didn't watch it.   
 

Q.  You are lucky because matchpoint in one  tournament; matchpoint in another tournament, then  Becker loses to Gustafsson, Sampras wins against  Pioline  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Luck, I don't know, the way I played the last  couple of months I think I deserve it.  I really played  good.  I really won a lot of matches and --   
 

Q.  Is it more important than anybody else that  the surface is quick, how do you think it is this year?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Slower than last year, but it is quick  enough.   
 

Q.  Are you happy about your -- I mean, your  group is probably the strongest, but I mean you have  good records with all of them?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Yeah, I have a good record with Pete, with  Stefan and Sergi.   
 

Q.  So you are the favorite of the group; do you  consider (inaudible)--  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Not a favorite, but I mean --   
 

Q.  You have confidence?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  (inaudible) I mean I am going to start to  play with Pete on Wednesday and (inaudible), I mean  every match is going to be nice to play; it is going to  be very exciting to play.  It is going to be -- it  doesn't matter what kind of record I have against  players.  It is nice to be here and it is going to be  nice to win.   
 

Q.  But you have won the last two matches against  Pete?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Yeah, I won -- not last couple of matches --  (inaudible).   
 

Q.  What is it with Pete Sampras (inaudible)--  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I think last four, five times I beat him, but  he is No. 1 player in the world.  He is not easy to  beat (inaudible) but I mean, he doesn't like to play  lefty.  It would be interesting match.  He did me a  favor last week beating everybody there, so maybe  actually I will beat him now.  It was a gift  (inaudible).   
 

Q.  Bruguera?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  He had a great year.  He deserve to be here,  but I don't think that it is his court.  But he has to  play again everybody, I mean, they have to take it  serious, everybody and try to beat him.   
 

Q.  (inaudible)  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  It was good score against him last couple of  times.  I beat him pretty well.  He had a great match.  I was lucky and won the match, so I had think it is  going to be another great match.  We will see who is  going to win.   
 

Q.  Looking back at your performance last year  and your last couple of weeks, you seem extremely  confident?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Yeah, very confident.  Playing great tennis  again; winning a lot.  I mean, I am rely sure on my  serve.  I am not afraid of some shots.  They are just  coming up -- (inaudible) coming off the racket.  I am  very happy to be here and looking forward to play  matches.   
 

Q.  If Pete Sampras didn't beat Pioline you  wouldn't be here, did you say thank you to Pete Sampras  after the final?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I am going to say thanks Wednesday to him  when we play.   
 

Q.  How do you explain your success?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I don't know, already when I came to Antwerp  I was very tired and I was mentally tired and  physically, but my first two opponents, they were not  too strong to beat.  But Pioline is a good player, so I  just couldn't get -- I was like-- it is like water  balloon.  It-- just all the pressure, all five weeks to  play, six weeks in a row, pressure and pressure and you  play good for 15 matches, every time like that, just  somebody just put a needle and it is like an explosion  and you can't explain.  You can't concentrate.  I mean,  I had to play first set because even if I was in first  set, I think I haven't any chance to win the match  because I was completely dead.   
 

Q.  When did you think you had a good chance to  come to Frankfurt?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I didn't think-- I won Vienna and final in  Stockholm; I almost defend all the points.  Then they  tell me you have to win Paris -- (inaudible) I won the  Paris and all the questions, now you have to win this  now.  Then I start to think before I didn't think and  then I start to count everyday; see if he wins or he  lose then I just-- I was a mathematician everyday.  I  was calculating, thinking, and then you can't play like  that.  Good thing that I didn't calculate before I  play; otherwise no chance I would win a tournament.  I  was lucky.   
 

Q.  Are you happy to be here  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Yeah.   
 

Q.  Why?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  It is just fun.   
 

Q.  Are you happy to be here  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Very happy.  I have to thank Pete but also  thanks to myself because I really played great three  weeks in a row and really I think deserved to be here.   
 

Q.  Do you think you might have played all of  your (inaudible)  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  What do you mean?  Can't (inaudible).   
 

Q.  Do you think you might have peaked, played  all your good matches before coming here?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  What do you mean?  No, I think I still have  something left.   
 

Q.  This morning we had a tennis forum held by  the ATP journalists and Luke Jensen was there; he was  talking about rock and roll tennis and how tennis  should be made much more open; much more lively and get  the public much more enthusiastic, rock bands on stage,  fire works; things like that.  Is that a good idea?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Rock and roll tennis?   
 

Q.  Yeah, will it make it much more open and much  more lively?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Like what, bringing people to the court.   
 

Q.  Introduce the players with pop music and  flashes and lasers, things like that?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  That is okay for some tournament, but not  every tournament.  I think tennis is good like it is  now.  I don't think you have to make a show from the  tennis.  If you want to go to Hollywood; then you can  make that.  But this is tennis.  This is not rock and  roll, shows, lasers, it is okay, sometimes.  Sometimes  you have these things, but this is not show business.  It is tennis.   
 

Q.  He was saying it is the entertainment  business; not just tennis?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Yeah, but he is playing different.  I mean,  he thinks different.  I don't think that is a good  idea.  He is playing more rock and roll type, so he  wants it like that, but I don't think it is good.  I  don't think (inaudible) don't think it is going to help  tennis.   
 

Q.  Changing the subject.  Did you go to Drazen  Petrovic's funeral?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Yeah, I did.   
 

Q.  Did you play tournaments each side of the  funeral -- exactly when was it because it was --  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  That was during Queens, I lost the Queens;  then I went to Zagreb and I came home.   
 

Q.  Goran, on the subject of the forum, obviously  a lot of people think that tennis has got to make a  change a little bit, or personalities of the players--  personality of the players got to come through.  What  is your feeling, I mean, is it possible to make the  tennis more interesting?  Is it possible that players  because of the competition now can actually show their  personality more than they do or is it very hard?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  It is tough.  I don't think the people in  these big tournaments is all sold out every week and  the people enjoy, if you have play final, big  tournament not going to make a clown of yourself to  make people happy.  I want to win the tournament.  That  is what happened in Paris.  They start whistling to me  because I hit a lot of aces.  I don't want to be a nice  guy, okay, now, I am going to make sure a little bit  serve less aces and be an idiot on the court and-- to  make them happy.  I don't care they pay the tickets and  I play three sets too fast.  They are going to come  anyway next year, they are going to come always.  So I  don't think you have to change anything.  You have  exhibitions, they want the funny thing is --  (inaudible).  Not on the final.  Maybe in exhibition.   
 

Q.  What were you upset about?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  It is stupid because they paid the ticket and  it they want five sets they want something different,  slower, but it is not my problem.   
 

Q.  Is this a sign of the times now, the public  catching up to the fact that they are getting a little  bit fed up with having no rallies in the tennis match?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I think clay court season is coming so they  can watch a little tennis.   
 

Q.  When were you sure in Antwerp that you were  going to be here?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  About Saturday like 11:00, 11:15.   
 

Q.  In the morning?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  No, in the evening when Pioline lost.  Then I  was very sure that I am going to be here.   
 

Q.  You were in your room?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Yeah, I was watching last set in my room.   
 

Q.  Goran, can you explain a little bit about  your friendship with Marc Rosset and how do you see his  development now?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I think I am very happy because he is my best  friend on the tour and (inaudible) he start a year very  bad and he really proved that I know he can be-- I  think he can be even better, but I think he didn't  believe it.  Now he is 16.  He won the tournament and  very happy for him.  I think now he has to work even  more to be top 10, if he wants.  I think he can be --  he can play tough tennis.   
 

Q.  Do you see a comparison with Marc when you  were younger; you were not that stable; suddenly you  realized I am able to beat these guys; then you --  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I think, I don't know, I mean you cannot  judge myself with him.  I am different maybe than him.  He has to know that he is able to be top 10.  I know  that he can be, but he has to know.  He has to want  it.   
 

Q.  You are planning to play a lot of doubles  together?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Yeah, my ranking is dropping now, but I think  we are going to play a lot of doubles.   
 

Q.  Are you going out with Marc?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  We go to dinners.  We hang out together,.   
 

Q.  Goran you made up your schedule are you going  to play doubles with anybody?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Yeah, Rosset next year, a lot of doubles.   
 

Q.  What do you think about your group  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I think my group is stronger than the other  one.  I mean, Pete, Stefan and Sergi, it is a very  strong group.  I have a good record against Pete, good  record against Stefan, Sergi, I mean, never play  indoors, but now, I am very happy, but now I have to  start to play like I play in Paris.  I have to take one  match at a time and try to play good.  I mean, it is  not easy to beat anybody here, but I have to be  mentally strong and try to beat everybody.   
 

Q.  Sampras going to have to play (inaudible)?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  He is No. 1.  It is always tough to beat No.  1 player in the world, but he doesn't like to play me.  He doesn't like to play lefties.  He has a problem with  the lefties.  So we will see.  I mean, last times I  beat him and he has to think how to play me.  I know  how to play him.   
 

Q.  Stefan Edberg?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Also last five times I beat him.  I Paris I  was lucky, I won the match.  They were all close  matches.  It is going to be who is going to be  stronger, having a little bit luck and what is going to  happen, I don't know.  I cannot say.  I cannot judge  the match now.  We are going to see when we are going  to play.   
 

Q.  Bruguera?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I don't think that is his surface, but you  have got to take him serious.  (inaudible)  you just  concentrate with him like I am going to concentrate  with Pete to beat him.   
 

Q.  Do you remember last year the semifinal  against Boris Becker?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Yeah, it was one of the best match ever in  tennis and good match, I lost that match, (inaudible)  this is a new year, so we will see what is going to  happen.   
 

Q.  (inaudible)  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  He is not here this year.  I am strong  enough.  I don't want to think about last year.  This  is now and I want to think about this year.   
 

Q.  Boris Becker a lot of (inaudible)  maybe the  coach for --  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Same coach, little bit sorry because he is  not here.  It is bad for Germany and I think it is bad  for the tennis because he is a great player and he is  not here.  It is bad luck (inaudible).   
 

Q.  Are you still with Tiriac.  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Ion Tiriac is my manager.  One year ago Boris  was with him now it is finished but I am still with Ion  and we are doing great.  I like it.   
 

Q.  What do you think about the situation between  Ion and Boris  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  It is not my business.   
 

Q.  Are you happy to be here?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  It is nice to be here.  I like Germany.  The  people, they understand tennis and they like I like to  play here.  I always play good in Germany.   
 

Q.  Do you follow the situation in your country  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I mean, I am tired of these questions.  The  situation is bad and I don't know when it is going to  stop.  What can you do?  I hope for those people in  Croatia and people who are fighting, they end it very  soon, because nobody is going to win -- a lot of people  are dying and people, they have nothing to eat there  and it is a really bad situation.  I mean, I am going  to help my country every time when I can because I am  Croatian and I am proud to be Croatian.   
 

Q.  Can you do anything --  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I try to talk about Croatia.  I try to  represent, playing here, winning for Croatia.  If I  could help, I would help any time.   
 

Q.  (inaudible)you are enjoying basketball?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Yeah, I am interested in every sport.  I like  basketball and football a lot.   
 

Q.  You lost two friends?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  He was my good friend and it was really bad  and he died.  Drazen was one of the best players in the  world.  He played in the NBA and very tough that  happened during Wimbledon.  It was tough to play.  (inaudible).   
 

Q.  (inaudible)  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I am playing very good at the moment.  The  year is going to (inaudible) finish this week and I  have to keep practicing and be mentally strong and try  to start next year, fit and good.   
 

Q.  Were you upset about the crowd's reaction in  Paris  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  They don't only criticize me, but if you see  the list of the (inaudible)  the top is Pete Sampras.  Every time, they complain when I am serving.  It is not  only me serving.  A lot of players are serving a lot of  aces.   
 

Q.  Are you concerned about what the fans like?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I don't care what they like.  I am  professional so I do my job and what I like to do -- if  they want to watch tennis slowly, watch clay court.   
 

Q.  Are you playing some golf?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Yeah, I am starting.  I am taking some golf  lessons when I go to states; I always play  (inaudible).   
 

Q.  You enjoy golf  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  It is fun to play.  Especially if you know  how to play (inaudible).  It is relaxing.   
 

Q.  Do you agree when people say that players  throwing rackets is sometimes good for tennis?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I think people, they like when somebody is --  I mean, not when you break the racket, but when you are  throwing the racket; talking to the people and talking  to the umpire, I think it is like two point players.  (inaudible).   
 

Q.  Throwing rackets is showing emotion from the  players.  Do you think that they should loosen the rule  on that?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Yeah, because they throw the racket too much  they give you warning and then penalty point; then you  are out.   
 

Q.  You think it is too severe?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Yeah, I mean, depends, sometime they give you  warning for nothing.  Sometimes you can throw the  racket and he can warn you a couple of times before he  gives you the real warning.   
 

Q.  (inaudible)  throwing the racket is kind of a  --  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  It is fun.  I mean, fun for-- you can relax a  little bit and fun for everybody.   
 

Q.  So you think maybe that -- (inaudible)  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I think it is okay like this.   
 

Q.  (inaudible)  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I don't know.  I don't think they are going  to be like that because the guys can serve a lot of  aces.  You have Pete, you have Michael, Pete and  Michael, myself and I mean, all the guys, they can  serve aces, but I mean, I am not a leading guy in  aces.  First one is Pete - like 100, 150 more aces than  I have.  So it (inaudible)  long match and it is not my  fault that day I served great.  It is not easy always  to serve good.  You have to have good concentration to  serve for three sets good.  It wasn't easy.   
 

Q.  The Germans know something more about tennis  (inaudible)?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  They know for sure.  I think the Germans,  they really follow tennis good enough.  They know a lot  about tennis.  I like to play here because they really  -- last year me and Boris (inaudible)  they really  enjoyed it.  They said it was one of the best matches  ever.  (inaudible).   
 

Q.  I saw it was really a great one and the press  conferences (inaudible)  all talked about this match.  And Boris (inaudible)  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Yeah, it is bad for the German people and for  the audience and for the tennis, I think because he is  not here.  But what can you do?  I mean, I am sorry  that he is not here.  I would like him to be here but  it is bad luck, I mean, didn't qualify.   
 

Q.  When you look back to the year 93, okay you  are here and you qualified, the last year, let us say  in the last week, what about the year 93?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  It is not a great year for me.  I couldn't  come back after injuries and my confidence was not  there.  I started to play great tennis; now I am here.  Like after U.S. Open, I said if I finish the year about  15, 14 place in the word I am going to be happy.  Now I  am here, so I should be more happy.  I really didn't  expect a lot of the year --   
 

Q.  Goran, maybe it is the same thing that Boris  last year, he went to this tournament; he qualified the  last two weeks and same with you this year and Boris  won.  So they say Goran is No. 1 pick.  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I mean, I beat all the guys last couple of  weeks, so I don't -- (inaudible)  I am going to be  thinking.   
 

Q.  Were you not playing tennis right now; were  you not involved in the sport, what do you think you  would be doing?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I have no idea.  Maybe to be mathematician,  fight in Croatia, I don't know.  Something I would do.   
 

Q.  No thoughts at all?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  No.  No idea.   
 

Q.  Frankfurt, did you believe after losing in  Antwerp that you can make it?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  For me, I wasn't strong enough to beat  Pioline but when Gustafsson beat Boris and Pete beat  Pioline then it was okay.   
 

Q.  What is your goal for Frankfurt?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Just to play good tennis and play tennis like  I play in Paris and last couple of months --  (inaudible).   
 

Q.  What do you think are favorites here?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I think Courier is not playing great tennis  last couple of months, but you never know with him.  He  can all of a sudden come back.   
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT