U.S. OPEN
September 1, 1993
Goran Ivanisevic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Goran, the last point, second serve, hit it over again, you hit a shot, went for broke.

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  It is tough.  You make something like that.  Every time I hit when I had match point he played unbelievable.  It was just-- I hit great return.  He hit some good volley or something like that, but it was really great tiebreak, best tiebreak I have played in my life.


Q. Is it the longest one as well?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Longest one and best one.


Q. Does its help you early in the tournament like this to have a tough match like that?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I rather win easier, but it is okay, it doesn't matter.  Win is win.  It is good -- I was good I was quiet all the match, surprising, but I didn't say a word.  Even when I struggled a little bit in the second set, I lost two service in a row.  I had a break and I lost the serve another time.  But I was quiet.  I keep my concentration and I was really pleased the way I behaved.


Q. Goran, what about your form in general right now?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Form is not so great, but if I keep cool like I did and if I believe that I can beat everybody, and then come up with some big serve when I need it and play like this.  I think if I play more matches, it is going to come, my confidence is going to come.  I am going to play better and better. I don't know how good, but I have-- I just have to be cool like this.


Q. How do you do that?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  It was tough today.  I had to do something after I won the match because I keep everything inside and then just I explode, you know?  I mean, I tried to talk to myself inside, take it easy.  Slowly.  Don't do anything stupid.


Q. Do you put the pressure on your shoulders by yourself or is it somebody else or --

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I start to force too much when, I mean, when -- when I don't have confidence, then I throw the ball everywhere, then I start to force and then the serve is not coming in like I want.  But it is okay, it is getting better.


Q. How bad was the temperature out there today; seemed muggy, hard to play?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  It not so hot.  Little bit humid.  It was okay.  Not so bad, it could be worse.


Q. He was taking a lot of time between the points.  It seemed like it was part of his tactic.  Did that upset you in any way?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  No.


Q. I know you like to play fast.

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  It is okay.  I mean, he can take whatever time he want but I won the match; that is what counts.


Q. Are you still working with Ion who used to be with Boris?  Are you still satisfied?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Yeah, I am still working with Ion but what happened with him and Boris, it is not my problem.  Nothing to do with that.  That is their problem.  Ion is just my manager.  I have still a lot of years to go with him, so he was good with me.  I mean, working one year already, and he is helping me, so it is good.


Q. Goran, there are a few guys who have been right near the top, right at the level of winning a Grand Slam, yourself and some new guys like Medvedev.  Do you feel like there is going to be a change of the guards a little bit to some new players?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I mean Medvedev is going to come up very soon.  I think he is a great player.  I don't know who else, but I think he can win a Grand Slam.  I was very close last year, so I mean, it is tough you come so close; then you have good chance; then you don't win; then you think, geez, maybe that was my last chance.  But I still believe that I can win a Grand Slam.  Doesn't matter which one. So if I don't put too much pressure on myself, I think just go for it and try.


Q. Goran, is the sadness for Drazen diminished the same for you?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Yeah, I mean, it is still a little bit tough.  When I think about, I can't believe that he is dead.  I mean, I just can't believe it.  I still talk with good friends of his who lives here, I mean, we just talking about him like he is alive.  You can't believe.  But it is -- that is life.  That is destiny.  Can't do anything.


Q. Thanks.    


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT