COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
December 12, 1992
Goran Ivanisevic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Goran, you looked very nervous today since the beginning.  Was it the situation, the match?  What was the problem? 
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  No, I was not nervous.  It is okay.  
 

Q.  Goran, do you find it sort of surprising in a way at how Michael can keep to play in the same level all the time, and obviously your play is not like that? 
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  That is his biggest weapon, I mean, that he can play steady all the time like this.  But I stopped to play after the first set.  I didn't play for two sets.  I was in the lockerroom for the second and third set and then I came back and then I played much better.  But then, every time I lost my serve, it was with the new balls because I served to -- I didn't put a lot of slice on the serve.  I didn't put a lot of slice on the serve.  I was thinking too much what to do; whether hit forehands or backhand down the line crosscourt, every time I miss.  I had so many chances in the fifth set to break him, but I didn't do it.  
 

Q.  Goran, now that the year is over, can you reflect back on the year?  Are you surprised by the success?  What was your biggest success, your biggest disappointment? 
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  This year was my best year by far and I am very pleased the way I play, but I lost two most important matches in my life this year.  
 

Q.  Which? 
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Wimbledon and Frankfurt.  By one point.  I mean, they were all very close matches, but it doesn't matter -- I am happy the way I was playing the whole year.  I was playing very steady and I hope I am going to continue to play next year like that.  
 

Q.  Now that you have come close, you talked about the Wimbledon and the Frankfurt loss, what is for next year?  I mean, have you already set up your ideas of what you need to do, want to do next year? 
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  First I have to take some holidays now and then I am going to see what I am going to do next year.  But it is planning to win a Grand Slam tournament next year.  That is the biggest plan.  I am going to concentrate on Wimbledon, mostly Wimbledon because I have the most chance there.  
 

Q.  Looking back now at the last game today when you came so close to breaking him, do you now regret throwing your racket in the game before losing that with a point penalty cost you a lot of money and everything else? 
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Because that serve was out and I wanted to show the guy it was out.  But that racket was jumping and it was too far.  I got a penalty point, but the guy is terrible.  The guy didn't deserve to be there on the chair.  He is not for the matches.  I mean, he is too bad. He has to first do the juniors tennis and then something like this, because -- okay, I deserved that, but I mean, he has a lot of bad mistakes and he didn't overrule one point, matchpoint and then you can't overrule that.  That is too bad.  
 

Q.  You have talked a lot this year, Goran, about being better in your mind.  Do you think that is the reason why you have been able to play better this year or was it something stroke-wise, technical-wise, something else? 
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Yeah, sure, I was mentally more stronger, but I was much fitter than last year.  I was doing a lot of weights, with the ball, much stronger and my confidence was growing.  I felt better on the court.  That is why I play so good.  Didn't have one injury this year, and was -- I am really -- I mean, now I have to continue to work like this for the next year.  
 

Q.  Are you surprised to see Michael so aggressive and playing, going for it so much today? 
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  He is always-- that is his game.  He is taking the ball very early and putting pressure on the other guy.  Doesn't have to come in but he is also like that.  He is one meter in and -- I mean, all Americans, they are playing pretty the same, because they used to play on hardcourt and they are playing the same tennis, coming in.  They are staying one meter in and they are hitting the ball.  They are putting pressure on the other guy.  
 

Q.  Goran, you talked about Wimbledon, Frankfurt being the biggest disappointments.  Those were your two biggest tournaments.  Is that at the same time your biggest highlight of this year or was there another highlight? 
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I think biggest one was Olympic Games for me when I won that medal for my country.  That was the biggest thing I did this year.  
 

Q.  When did you stop going for your shots?  After you won the first set, you were just returning the ball up the middle so many times. 
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I don't know.  That was the tea time, you know.  I don't know, I just stopped.  Everything was bothering me on the court, off the court.  So that is -- that just happens like that.  When you are a little bit tired at the end of the year, that is always happening, but then I start to play good again and in the fourth set didn't have any chance and then I stop again a little bit.  Then when I try to come back, I had some chances but it was already finished.  
 

Q.  Were you thinking about the money at all?  You know, it was a lot of money and if you got to tomorrow, you could have won two million dollars. 
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Yeah, it is a lot of money but I wasn't thinking about money.  When you have fifth set like this, you are not thinking about money.  You try to think how you are going to hit your shots.  Otherwise I will be losing three sets and go home.  
 

Q.  Having beaten Chang quite comfortably in Frankfurt, were you not thinking you would be able to do something similar today? 
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Yeah, I was thinking, but I mean, it didn't happen.  He beat me, so --  
 

Q.  Thank you.  

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT