ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 19, 1992
Goran Ivanisevic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  So how important was that for you to beat Jim Courier at this stage of the final? 

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  It is always nice feeling when you can beat the No. 1 player in the world 6-3, 6-3, and it is very important.  Every match is very important here, so that is -- this one was important, too. 


Q.  It looks easy?  It was easy or not? 

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  It was not easy at all.  I mean, it is never easy to beat -- maybe it looked -- he is No. 1; he is the best.  I mean, he is the best in the ranking.  But it was not easy.  He had some chances, but I was always coming up with some great points, very concentrating, and also from the back, I won almost every point, so, today, I mean, I just played too good. 


Q.  Was that a particularly pleasing thing that you didn't have to rely on the whole flow of aces to beat him? 

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Yeah, because everybody say I am only serving, but I mean, my serve is nothing -- I mean, okay, I hit more aces than Sampras or Krajicek, but it is not faster than those guys' serves, so -- and I won almost every point from the back against Courier and he is one of the best players from the back in the world, so he is also fast.  If I play from the back I have to run from the back, I just played too good. I hit the ball harder than him today.  He didn't have any chance to compete with me from the back. 


Q.  After Wimbledon, Goran, somebody had a debate about power of tennis - because of what Agassi did by winning.  Do you think the argument could be reopened this week? 

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Power of tennis, everybody is talking about some power of tennis.  I don't know what they mean.  Also Courier is playing power tennis from the back.  He is hitting the ball; you have to be on the court to see that.  You have -- it is tough to run like five times.  He is hitting ball every time harder and harder and I am -- they never say he is like power tennis.  Always complaining about my tennis because I hit an ace and that is the power of tennis.  I think it is not -- this is not a question.  I think -- I just can hit more aces than the other guys and I also can play from the back, so I think the power of tennis -- maybe we are playing faster than before, the guys, because we are stronger; much better athletes than the guys before.  So it's easier to run more and to hit stronger.  I think in ten years the tennis is going to be much faster than it is now because those wide body rackets, you can hit the ball much faster than the one that I play now on. 


Q.  It is easier for you to take concentration indoors? 

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I mean, yeah, because if it is cold, like here, if I am serving then it's easier.  I mean, then I am trying to hit the ace, but if it is not ace, then I am in trouble.  I am -- I mean, not in trouble, then I have to think what I have to do, come in or stay back, or, but maybe it is -- I mean, I am maybe more concentrate indoor than outdoor, because outdoor I am rushing much more, but this year, it is okay.  But a lot of years before, I mean, I was rushing more outside, when I play on clay or hardcourt. 


Q.  Two years ago you said I am playing better and better and there is no reason to go on this way.  We have seen today -- the same programs, or -- 

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I mean, last year I didn't play great, so -- but this year I changed a lot.  I mean, I change a lot, and I improved.  I can see on the court.  I see I am much more concentrate.  I mean, last year, if I have Love-40 on my serve I would never win this game.  It doesn't matter who I play Courier or Nick Brown, like I lost to in Wimbledon, but now, I am Love-40 and I hit first, first serve in, so that is the big difference.  You have to be able to hit five first service.  It is not to easy.  It's not that I go there and throw the ball and hit the ace.  It is not easy at Love-40 to hit an ace.  So that is also a good thing.  I mean, not everybody can hit the ace on Love-40. A lot of guys can doublefault; hit two aces; then doublefault on the next point, so that is also my big advantage, I can do that. 


Q.  In this match do you have a special intention to win from the baseline against Courier to prove that you are not only a serve and volley player? 

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I don't have to prove to anybody that I am not serve and volley.  I know that I am -- that I can play from back of the court. And I am the only guy who won the set-off him in French Open and I had 4-1 in the fourth so I can play from the back.  So I don't have to prove.  I just prove that -- I mean, I am a good tennis player. 


Q.  Do you think you are ready to be No. 1 early next year if you keep playing like this? 

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  At first I have to win a Grand Slam then I am going to think to be No. 1. 


Q.  What would a win in this tournament mean to you? 

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  It means a lot.  This is most important tournament after those 4 Grand Slam, and it means a lot.  That best eight guys at the moment, and you are the winner.  So that would be a great present for me at the end of the year.  A great win, so I would try.  I mean, I am playing very well at the moment, very confident, and I just continue to play.  I am not thinking -- I mean, tomorrow is the next match and then if I am in the semis and the final then I am going to think match by match. 


Q.  Goran, everybody sees that you can concentrate much better.  Is the reason a lot of Bob Brett? 

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I mean, Bob Brett helped me, but that is everything inside me.  I mean, I have to help myself, and I want to help myself because I said if I continue to concentrate like last year, I can't improve.  So I said you have to change; you have to take the towel more, I mean, try to breathe, a little bit, I mean, do something, I mean, because when I start to rush too much, and also how I walking.  I mean, if I walk like my grandmother, then it is not good.  But if I walk normally, also it has a lot to do with that.  If I walk normal like I am walking then it is okay, but as soon as I start to walk too slow, too like -- then it is not good. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT