ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 17, 1992
Goran Ivanisevic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  How did you feel about your game today, Goran? 

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I am happy the way I play.  I was a little bit nervous because it is my first ATP Finals.  It is different to play.  There are only eight players.  Every match counts because it is important.  But I think I served great.  Michael had only one chance, and I hit an ace, but I mean, all the match I was controlling the game.  I mean, it was -- in the tiebreak, every time I come to the tiebreak, he is lucky -- I had more luck; I won a tiebreak.  Second set, I was -- I was making pressure on his serve; I was much better.  He didn't have any chance in that.  I broke him twice. 


Q.  Did you ever feel the pressure on your first serve during the first serve -- 

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  He was trying to return strange.  First he was standing like some woman is serving, I mean -- but I mean, then I was serving to his body, and then he went a little bit back.  Then I was serving a banana to him, and then he went in again and he went back in; I mean, it is tough.  He was trying.  I mean, it is good to try, but if I served like that I mean, he can stay wherever he wants. 


Q.  How do you feel about the best of 14 ranking system as it is right now?  Do you think there needs to be a change? 

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I don't know, maybe.  I mean, it is -- sometimes it is strange.  I don't understand this, it is difficult.  I mean, it is strange.  I think it is strange.  I think a lot of top guys are complaining about it.  And I think -- I have to study this a little bit better, then I can tell you. 


Q.  What about the point system, do you think there should be more points awarded to the Grand Slam tournaments? 

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Yeah, I think it should be more points Grand Slam tournaments because some ATP tournaments you have a lot of points, so you can get like almost the same points like you play final of Grand Slams.  I think that is not fair. 


Q.  There were some people of Croatia here.  Did you expect to have someone from your country? 

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Everywhere I play there is a lot of Croatian people and also here.  So it is nice to have them here, so it is nice to play.  But they are not so loud as the ones in Australia. 


Q.  Someone seemed to say something to you.  Was that a Croatian fan that stopped you during your serve? 

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Some lady was talking German.  I don't know what she said.  She was talking for 20 seconds, and then I hit an ace.  Maybe she said hit the ace. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT