U.S. OPEN
September 5, 1992
Goran Ivanisevic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.   What happened today?

 GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I didn't feel good.  I was playing without
any energy.  I mean, my legs felt very heavy.  I couldn't run.
 I mean, I was serving badly because my arms were so heavy, so
I didn't -- I really felt bad.  Since I came here in America,
I feeling very bad.  Very sick.  First in New Haven and then here.
 I mean, I don't know what is that. Maybe some kind of virus,
but something is -- I don't know what.

 Q.   Was that a doctor that came over?

 GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I went to the doctor in New Haven.  He took
my blood and everything was okay, but today I didn't feel good
at all.  I mean, I felt -- I don't know.

 Q.   Is it just too much tennis, you think?

 GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I don't know.  Maybe, those Olympic games,
maybe they put me back, one, two months, but it is not normal,
since I came to New York.  I can't sleep.  I am waking, like,
five times a night.  Never before, is so -- every time when I
wake up in the morning I have bad stomach cramping, so I can't
eat.  I don't know, I mean, today I couldn't play.  I couldn't
run.  Because he didn't play anything special, but I was not there.


 Q.   He said that he played terrifically, he thinks, the best.

 GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I mean, he play -- sure, he played because
I didn't play, but second and third set, he start to play better
because I couldn't move, so he was -- he saw that I couldn't move
and he was playing left, right, but nothing special.  I mean--


 Q.   Is it terribly disappointing?

 GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Yeah, disappointed because I had a good draw,
but I mean, what can you do?  I didn't feel -- I feel so bad,
so I couldn't help.  I have to go to check what is wrong with
me and, I mean, before -- because after Olympics, I played too
much.  A lot of mistakes I did. After Wimbledon I played two tournaments;
was big mistake, then I had to play Olympics, and then I play
a lot, a lot, and then now everything is coming back.

 Q.   What will you do today with doubles?

 GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I will play doubles because I say I am going
to play and I have to play, and I try to give my best.  If I can't
I am out of here tomorrow morning.

 Q.   Where will you go?  Back home?

 GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Back home.

 Q.   Is it true that you promised two and a half million to
Croatia, to the homeless?

 GORAN IVANISEVIC:  What?  What did you say?

 Q.   I saw in the newspaper reported that you promised to
give two and a half million to Croatia homeless?

 GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I promise, no.  I never promise that.

 Q.   No intentions?

 GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I going to give, but it is my problem how
much and when and what.

 Q.   When are you supposed to play again, when is your next
tournament?

 GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Sidney, Tokyo.

 Q.   That is in a couple of weeks?

 GORAN IVANISEVIC:  That is five weeks, four weeks.

 Q.   So it is a good chance that you will be able to play
or depending on what the doctors have to say?

 GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I mean, I am going to play for sure, but just
I want to see what is wrong with me because I went to doctor last
week and he said there is nothing wrong, but there must be something
wrong because I am waking up like crazy every five times, so something
is wrong, because usually when I go to sleep, I sleep all day,
if I want, but now I can't sleep.  I mean, it is bad and then
in the morning I can't eat, so you can't play then, because something
is wrong, but I don't know what.

 Q.   Does what happen today take away any of the great things
from either the Olympics or from Wimbledon that you have already
accomplished this year?

 GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I mean, yes, but you know, you can't help.
I mean, first of all, I am not playing the great tennis at the
moment, but I am winning, so that is important, but I mean, today,
Volkov was great player, second, if he played like that; if you
feel like that, you can't win.  Because I wasn't there; until
4-All, I was okay, but then stopped. That is life.  That is tennis.
 Might be some virus.  I have to check and go see what is wrong.


 Q.   How long has this been going on?  How long have you felt
sick?

 GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Since I came here in New Haven, I was like
three days in a row and I went to check my blood.  I did a lot
of testing.  He say everything is okay, but I was feeling the
same.  Here, I came the same.  Everyday I have a bad stomach.
 Everyday I have cramp in the stomach.  I mean, I was playing,
but I was not so -- I mean, I am not like when I am normal, it
is not easy to play like this, so but today was the worse.  I
woke up in the morning; I was feeling really bad and then I ate
something, but not enough, and when I came on the court, I was
really bad because there is -- a little bit heat, so there was
probably some kind of virus or something.

 Q.   A lot of people like coming to the states; it doesn't
sound that this has been a good  place for you the last couple
of weeks?

 GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I mean, it is not bad, but it is different.
Europe is much better than the states.

 Q.   Why is that?

 GORAN IVANISEVIC:  For me, because first food is-- here food
is not good.  If you eat those Mac Donald cheeseburgers hamburgers
you go to the hospital forever.  But they got used to here because
they eating all their life, these things but they didn't get used
to those, this food, but I am eating okay.  I was eating good
food.  I went to some Italian restaurant, but I don't know.  Probably
the air, something is wrong, I don't know what.  I don't hate
-- I like America, but I don't know, last year I didn't felt like
this year.  I wasn't sick, but this year when I came from first
day, I was sick, everyday, I had some problems here.  I don't
know why.

 Q.   How is your family in Croatia?

 GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Good.

 Q.   No problems?

 GORAN IVANISEVIC:  No problems.

 Q.   Thank you.    


 End of FastScripts....            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT