US OPEN
August 31, 2001
Goran Ivanisevic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Questions, please.  
 
 
Q.  Did the planes bother you a little bit?
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  No.  Is good when plane come, you can scream, and nobody can hear. 
 
Q.  Can you elaborate a little more on the differences of living here and working in the US Open as opposed to Wimbledon?
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  What do you mean?  
 
Q.  The differences from your take on living in New York for two weeks as opposed to living in London, playing here as opposed to playing at Wimbledon. 
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Actually, it's more quiet when you play Wimbledon.  You rent apartment or house close there.  You finish your practice, you walk for five minutes, you're there watching movies.  Here you have to drive every day, if you lucky 45 minutes, if you not, one hour and a half.  They put like six people in the bus.  They don't even give you the car alone.  Then they take two people in this hotel, two in this.  You come to the hotel, it takes you two hours.  But actually New York is nice.  I like New York.  This is the last Grand Slam.  You have to deal with anything, everything.  If you start to make problems, then this comes on the court.  I don't try to make any problems.  I do whatever I have to do.  Drive two hours, three hours, whatever.  When I win the matches, you don't complain too much. 
 
Q.  What do you like about New York?
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  It's action city.  It never sleeps.  Like 300 kilometers an hour every day, everything is so quick.  But is good for three weeks.  After, is too much, you know.  You just get into that rhythm and you find yourself hitting the wall.  You have to take off and leave.  But it's fun.  You know, it's fun.  It's fun to walk around, fun people, is really nice.  
 
Q.  You kept your temper under control losing the first game of the third set.  You felt there was no problem?
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I actually felt great today on the court, much better than first round.  I really enjoy myself there, I have fun more.  Even when I lost that serve, I didn't feel like I lose the match.  I was really feeling well and I knew he's going to give me something, you know, sooner or later.  Was good for me.  I broke him straightaway back.  Really felt nice.  Was nice to play.  With a little wind, but was nice. 
 
Q.  What did you think of your service motion?
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Was great.  Sometimes I was 40-Love up, I play a couple of stupid points like 4-2.  40-Love, deuce, breakpoint.  But then I serve three aces.  I think my serve was much better than first day.  Motion and rhythm was much better. 
 
Q.  Do you feel you brought the momentum that you generated at Wimbledon, Cincinnati before here, the momentum in your game remains pretty high?
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  It's high.  I play good in Cincinnati, even better in Indianapolis.  Really hitting the ball well.  When I have to hit, I hit.  When I have a push, I push.  I can do whatever, come in.  Is great.  Like I say, if I pass the first week, it's great thing, then anything is possible.  I have one more match, but this one is going to be tough.  I never beat Costa.  Is going to be tough for me.  
 
Q.  You are in the position of coming here as Wimbledon Champion.  Has that given you a different kind of feeling?
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  It does, it does.  Now when I'm 15-40 or 30-40 down, I produce ace first serve or I hit a good shot.  Before, I was too scared to make a double-fault.  Now I'm more confident.  When you're more confident, then you have more variety of shots.  I can come in.  I can stay back.  Before I was maybe rushing too much.  Now I can do more things on the court. 
 
Q.  The other guys maybe look at you slightly different. 
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  That's true, more respect.  They know I'm playing good.  They know they can expect from me anything.  It's nicer to play like that.  
 
Q.  Off the court, the fact that you won Wimbledon, does that sort of relax you? 
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  It is some.  When I'm in bad mood, it just gives me so much pleasure.  When I walk, when I go somewhere, just give me so much pleasure that I won, that I remove that stone from my back.  I don't walk anymore heavy.  Now I'm lighter, more fun.  Is just great feeling. 
 
Q.  Do you think since it was so important to you, you were sort of punishing yourself all these years?
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Maybe, maybe.  I didn't punish, but looked like I was punishing myself because I want it so bad.  When you want something so bad, is opposite reaction, is not going.  You can't get loose.  When a Grand Slam come, was the same question, "Are you ready, Goran?  When you going to win?  Is this your year?"  Me again, "Yes, I know.  I don't know.  Yes, maybe."  Now I don't have to answer anymore those questions.  I'm very happy about it. 
 
Q.  Did you ever feel, "I'm completely unready and want to lose the next Slam"? 
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  No, because I don't mean that.  When I come on the Slam, I believe I can do well, especially Wimbledon, especially this year I felt I can do well.  I don't know for what reason.  My confidence didn't give me that.  I just felt that's it.  And that happen.  When I look forward  -- actually back one year here, I lost 1-Love-1 to Hrbaty.  Was disgusting.  Even you tank, but you try.  You lose 1-Love-1.  When I won Wimbledon, I just so happy.  Everything on the court, I'm happy off the court.  Everything seems easy. 
 
Q.  Are you still talking about the need for surgery?
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I need, you know, because on clay I have tough time.  A lot of matches, I have tough time.  Lucky I'm winning in three sets.  When I play more sets, my neck gets stiff, all this gets stiff (pointing to shoulder).  I can't pray every night.  I can, but I can hope everything going to be fine.  Hopefully when I clean this, everything is going to be easier for me. 
 
Q.  October?
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Yes. 
 
Q.  150,000 came out in Split after you won.  If you win here again, do you think the people of Split will come out like that again?
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Can't happen again.  This is once in your life.  Maybe 20,000.  That kind of thing, a city of 350,000 people, almost 200,000 people came out, it's unbelievable.  They said everybody who was not dead came there. 
 
Q.  What were the other 100,000 doing?
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I don't know.  That was just a great feeling.  I think especially because all these three finals and everything out of nowhere, I win.  Everything was just so nice like in the dreams, this fairytale story, it's just great. 
 
Q.  We Americans are thrilled that Andy Roddick is a rap singer.  Can you sing a bar or two of "I'm Dalmatian," the big song they were singing at your celebration.
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  (In Croatian) it's called.  We were singing a lot of songs.  That day was the happiest day of my life.  A lot of songs they were singing there.  It's just fun.  When you don't care, you can sing whatever you want.  I just won Wimbledon.  I could do there what I wanted.  I even stripped.  I don't think nobody stripped in front of 150,000 people.  I'm the only guy there. 
 
Q.  Getting on-court massages around the tour, does that help get you in the mindset to strip in front of 150,000?
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Actually, I never strip in front of everybody.  In front of my girlfriend, yeah.  In front of so many people. 
 
Q.  Is your shoulder injury similar to the one Patrick Rafter had?
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Is not that bad, but it is bad.  They were thinking about the same surgery.  If I touch the tendon, like he did, then I'm out for six, seven months.  That's tough to get back.  You know, you have to really tough it out and try to practice.  But mine, they just going to clean it a little bit, then I'm like 10 to 12 weeks out, which is easier.  You can never say with your shoulder. 
 
Q.  Are you seeing a Croatian surgeon?
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  No, no, I'm going to Germany.  Germans are good, you know (winking).  
 
Q.  Has this doctor worked on other famous athletes before?
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  No idea.  He's one of the best shoulder doctor in Germany, so he must be good.  I don't know if he work on somebody good or not.  He must be good.  
 
Q.  A few years ago a secret admirer sent you some pretty interesting packages.  What kind of packages or communications did you get after winning?
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Nothing.  I got this Teletubby thing.  They send me, the producer from this show, send me all four. 
 
Q.  You went from black leather to Teletubbies?
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Yes, and the handcuffs. 
 
Q.  What's happening?
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I don't know.  I'm going down.  No more handcuffs, nothing.  Nothing interest.  Just "Happy Birthday."  That's it. 
 
Q.  Doesn't that get depressing?
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  That's okay.  I won Wimbledon.  I was not winning Wimbledon, so they try to cheer me up with the handcuffs.  I don't know how can cheer you up somebody with handcuffs.  Pretty depressing when you see handcuffs. 
 
Q.  Which of the four Teletubbies do you relate to best?
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  They are all funny.  It's a show for two years old kids.  My sister has a daughter, she's two years old.  She knows everything.  I watch with her the other day when I was home.  But, I don't know, I like this tall guy Tinky-Winky.  They're funny to watch, but not more than ten minutes, then gets too much.  They repeat one thing for 50 times. 
 
Q.  How many personalities does Tinky-Winky have?
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I don't know.  I didn't ask him.  
 
Q.  Does it seem like everyone in Croatia finally came together?
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  What do you mean "came together"?  
 
Q.  As a country. 
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  It already came together long time ago.  I mean, I don't understand what you mean.  
 
Q.  There's still probably a lot of ill will going on.  Nationalities come together or  --?
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  We have our country already ten years.  Everything is okay.  No more wars.  There was one government before.  Now we have a different government, which is not the best government.  But I don't want to talk about it.  It's not my job, you know, to take care of the country.  I play tennis.  I like my country.  I enjoy.  I going to live there.  Hopefully in the future we going to be one of the best living country in the world, if is possible.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT