TMS - THE ERICSSON OPEN
March 23, 2000
Goran Ivanisevic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 GREG SHARKO: Questions.  
 
Q. Vince Spadea, 1997 all over good. Remember that match?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: Yeah, it was interesting match. It was a good match actually, some
good points. It's going to be not easy match. He's not playing very well lately, but it's
okay. You have to beat everybody, anybody, whoever you play. He's a good player. I'm
looking forward for that match.  
 
Q. He was pretty irritated that night with the chair umpire. Were you upset with the
chair umpire, too? 
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: Some pretty stupid guys in the crowd, so I had fights with everybody.
They piss me off, I serve a couple of aces when I needed. It was okay for me, actually.  
 
Q. What's going through your mind this year for your tennis?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: Mind is fine, clear, playing a little golf. Actually, hitting the
ball well. It's just I'm losing the matches which I shouldn't lose. Last week I had so
many breakpoints, I shouldn't lose that match. I was already up. I play bad, I come back,
third set I should win easy, instead I'm losing the match. Then the thing happen never
happen to me in 12 years, on the breakpoint the ball hit me in the leg, which is disaster.
 
 
Q. What was that?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: 4-3 in the third for Costa, I hit a good serve, 30-40, the ball is
going like (indicating), hit me in the leg.  
 
Q. You were getting under?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: I don't know what I was doing, watching.  
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: Yes. All this year, a lot of matches I lose close, have a lot of
chances, a lot of breakpoints, a lot of opportunities. So some way, somehow, I have to win
those matches and break through. A couple of wins is going to help me. But I'm playing
three times better than I play last year, hitting the ball better, my concentration is
much better, I'm not doing so many double-faults. I'm more happy as a player. But I just
need -- I don't know when it's going to happen, those matches, but should happen,
otherwise is not good. 
 
Q. Any ideas how to fix it?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: I don't know. Practicing is not going to help me because I'm
practicing, trying everything, doing everything. I don't know. Just maybe tough it out,
then I get more confident. You don't miss the balls on these important points which I'm
missing at the moment. Just try to tough it out. I'm capable to do that. We see.  
 
Q. What motivates you to stay with it? Just your love of the game? 
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: I think I still have two, three good years to play. I believe that.
With my physic, I'm not getting fat, I'm not getting slower; I'm getting older. Serving
still a lot of aces. Everything is working fine. I'm enjoying on the tour, you know,
having fun. The worst I play, the people they like me more, I don't know why (laughter).  
 
Q. So many top players have been hurt in the last year. The only time I can remember
you being seriously hurt wasn't related to tennis, your hand in the door. 
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: Yeah.  
 
Q. How do you keep from being injured?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: I don't know. I just don't want to be injured. In this time of the
tennis, it's not easy not to be injured. They slow the courts so badly. Now the fastest
courts are hard court, Indian Wells and here, much faster than indoor. The balls are so
heavy. Everything is so heavy. Every week is almost different balls, different court. I
mean, they complaining, big servers. Now they have a lot of rallies, a lot of injuries.
It's tough. Sometimes you play a night match when it's cold. You try to hit these balls,
your shoulder is going, you know, for a couple of days. So heavy, these balls. It's not
easy. No more free points; no more easy matches. 
 
Q. You managed not to have a bad back, rotator cuff injury. 
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: My back is not so good. I have a lot of things that hurts me, but
it's just I don't like to complain too much. I start to complain when is too late. Just
thanks God, everything is fine so far.  
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT