US OPEN
September 5, 1999
Goran Ivanisevic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. (Inaudible.) 
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: He's not so tough. Is 41%. It doesn't do anything; so he didn't play
anything special, I guess. I didn't do anything.  
 
Q. But overall, you felt you were starting to play better during this US Open? Do you
think tonight was not as good as you expected?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: No, no. It was 41%, everything is based on my serve. I'm at least
55%, you know, at least that. And every time he broke me, I play such a -- I mean a couple
of these volleys. Then again, I broke in the third set and then I lost the game. So it's
all these presents; you can't do that. You cannot. Against Caratti, maybe, yes. But not
against Kuerten. He's too good to do that. 
 
Q. Did he tell you it was your birthday soon so he could give you some presents?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: Not yet. But those guys, they don't give you any presents. Not on the
tennis court.  
 
Q. So what's next for you? 
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: I don't know what is next for me.  
 
Q. Are you in the mood to play more, or are you in the mood to take a break? 
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: Now I am in the mood to kill myself probably. But it's tough to
explain what kind of mood I am in now. It's a mood for nothing. It's a mood I have to go
to the drug-testing now. 
 
Q. You said a couple of times you're going to kill yourself, you are very depressed.
How do you handle this year after year? Is it worse? Is it better? 
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: I don't know. It's not good.  
 
Q. Do you have to sleep on it? What do you do?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: I sleep, but then you wake up and it's even worse. So it's whatever.
Not good. At the moment, it's not good. But we'll see what happens.  
 
Q. In the previous press conferences, you say, "I'm an old player, nobody's
interested in me anymore." You saw the atmosphere on the court tonight, the crowd out
on the court tonight. The crowd was great, and it was for you. How did you feel? 
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: Actually, I felt great, there was a crowd behind me. And that's --
that make me great. You know, after this match, it doesn't matter. I play so bad and I
didn't play good at all. But this crowd really -- really is nice to see all these people
behind me; is really something, you know. After -- that means that they still like me,
they still love me, so it's nice.  
 
Q. You want to come back for this crowd? 
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC : Sure. If I'm still alive next year, I come back.  
 
Q. You're going to kill yourself, huh? 
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: No, I am not that fucked up to kill myself.  
 
Q. Did you did something different to focus for the game? You have to wait and --?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: It's tough, you know. It's tough. It's just tough. I mean you try
everything. When you fight, I mean you practice and no results. It's tough, you know. What
to do, you know? What to change? Where to go? How to play? That's tough. If I know that I
was spending eight months doing nothing and going out and going to the Discotheque, then,
okay, I do that and I play bad. But I didn't do anything of that. And I was practicing
hard, trying, playing and it's not happening. So that's -- then I don't know what to do
anymore. You know, just you hit the ball and you can't go through the wall, you know. So,
now I hit the ball. So what to do?  
 
Q. For you, is it more difficult to be a tennis player than five years ago? 
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: It's tough to be a tennis player, you know. Nobody can -- in
football, you can play like shit, but still your team can win. But here, nobody can change
you, and it's not fun for me to not win and play tennis. I have different goals. And I
don't know, you know, is just -- this moment is no fun anymore.  
 
Q. Was it easy five years ago? 
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: It was easy. Every time was easy, I mean, when you win the matches.
It's nice to practice, it's nice to have fun. Everything is easy. But is not easy in two
months when you win four matches. It's no fun. Having to lose to some guys which are very
bad. Not bad, but very bad.  
 
Q. Do you think maybe you want to win too badly, and that could --?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: I don't know. You see some guys, you know, like Chang, you know, he's
trying. The guy is always trying and he's not happening. He just cannot produce that
moment to come back. Andre did it. You know, he was 140, he play Challenger, and he came
back to No. 1, you know, which is unbelievable effort. So, you see -- I see guy like
Muster trying like maniac, you know, practicing. And, again, he's not coming. You know,
it's tough. After all these years, you know, but for sure I gonna try. I try, I try. I
don't know how long. I have power --. 
 
Q. Is it a good solution to go in more tournaments, win more matches, get more
confidence? 
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: I don't know, smaller, bigger, Challenger, whatever. But is I don't
know, is just -- see how this season is going to end up. I see. I am not ready to go yet,
but it's just more energy I have inside me to fight this, you know. Is no fun. Is fun to
be here, but is no fun when you have to practice for ten days, and then you lose first
round to guy that I never heard in my life and then again. And that's not easy. But I
still gonna fight, and I don't know how long I gonna be able to fight like that.  
 
Q. Some players play better when they have satisfaction outside tennis. Do you have any
satisfaction outside tennis? 
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: I have satisfaction. I have my girlfriend and everything. But this is
-- I come on court, you know, is just I have to play. Nobody can -- I have to hit winners.
I have to hit serves. And it's not working. I don't know why, but is not working.  
 
Q. Do you still like tennis? 
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: Yeah, I like tennis. Tennis gave me everything in my life. I always
gonna like tennis, even when I stop I gonna. This is my life. Everything was -- I gave
everything to tennis. Tennis gave it to me. I had a lot of disappointing moments in my
life, but still, I had a great eleven years. I hope that I can have still a couple more.
But like this, is gonna be tough.  
 
Q. What's the plan for your birthday? 
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: I don't know. Who thinks about birthdays now, you know? That's
another day in your life, you know.  
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT