US OPEN
September 8, 1998
Goran Ivanisevic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. What made the difference? 
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: Serve. 
 
Q. Was it your first serve not going in?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: Yeah. I had maybe 40 percent first serve in. I cannot play on the
junior girls with that kind of percentage. 
 
Q. Did you try and do anything to correct that?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: I don't know. Last night I served badly. So I thought, okay, now
maybe I have one day, and I going to change something. But nothing changed. I continued to
serve badly. With that, it's tough, you know. It's tough to keep up. He gets everything
back. Have to hit great shots from the back, you know. He doesn't miss. He doesn't do
anything from the back, but he doesn't miss. He gets everything back. If I could not put
my first serves in, then I'm always under pressure with the second, he can chip and
charge. Then again, I start important fourth set, 15-All, I play a shot between the legs
without any reason, only idiot like me can do that. It's 15-30, you know. Game is over,
you know, break. Very bad backhand volley. I had whole open side, I had cross. He was
running five minutes before I hit the volley there. It's break. The way he was serving
today was too good. I had a good return, he hit a good volley. 
 
Q. You've played him before. How is he playing now?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: He's playing very good tennis. He won three tournaments this summer.
He doesn't give you anything for free, you know. You have to work for every point. 
 
Q. Is this the best you've seen him?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: I didn't play him long time. Last time was Wimbledon. But, I mean, if
he continue to play, serve like this, he's going to be tough to beat. 
 
Q. How much did the break in play from yesterday, continuing on today, have an effect
on the match?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: No, was not effect. I started good, that game at 5-4, that was the
best service game I play all the match, and I lost that game. I hit three first serves in
the court. He hit three unbelievable returns, which you cannot do anything. It was too
good. But other break was just, I mean, from that, the next two sets, I was maybe putting
one first serve in whole game. It's tough, you know. He's there, he's waiting, you know. I
have to play good, you know. I have to always play, play, play. And on his serve, I don't
have any chance, you know. I have to work. I have to wait. I have to try. Stay here. Stay
there. Hit great returns. He hits great volleys back. Three breakpoints, and again three
terrible returns. Was not one -- one miss-hit I hit like home run, one I just miss all the
balls with the forehand, and one because he hit these not-so-fast serves, he hits very
deep, 100 miles, and he comes very quick to the net, stays very close, tough to pass him. 
 
Q. When you missed those breakpoints, you threw the racquet. Was that out of anger or
just frustration at what was going on?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: It was everything, you know. I was just -- it was a chance to get me
into the match back. He start to get a little nervous, not too many first serves. I hit a
couple good returns, and that was the chance, you know. And then I come up with three bad
returns, you know, two miss-hits completely, one backhand. Then it's tough. 4-1, he's
pumped. Then I got penalty point.  
 
Q. Did you lose your cool out there a few times?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: Yeah, I lost. But is not because of that I lost the match. I lose
cool so many times. I hope that I can just put some first serves in, and it was not the
question today. I couldn't put the first serves in. 
 
Q. In your last two Grand Slams, Wimbledon and this one, you've gone out against
Sampras, and now Rafter. If those guys meet in the semifinals, how would you look at that
match-up?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: It's going to be interesting match. I mean, Rafter is playing very
good tennis at the moment. He's confident, he's hot. He's going to be tough, you know. Has
to win first the quarterfinals. But it's going to be even match. 
 
Q. You say he gets everything back. Is he fast out there? Does he anticipate?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: Both. He's very fast and he anticipate very good. He doesn't hurt you
from the back so much, you know. But he just gets everything back. You come in and then he
comes with some great passing shots, especially from the backhand. You know, chips in,
then if you don't hit a great volley, you're history, he pass you like you're not at the
net.  
 
Q. How would you rank his volleying ability compared to some of the guys like Edberg
you've played in the past?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: Oh, he's somewhere up there, you know. Because he moves at the net
great. He's there all the time, you know. He picks the side. Even when I broke him in the
third set, you know, I had an easy forehand, and he was already there, you know. I had to
hit another passing shot, but he's there. I mean, I thought today I hit so many good
returns, so many passing shots, but always ball comes back. I don't know how. I hit a
winner and ball is back, then again. I mean, he's moving great. He's very great, good
athlete. 
 
Q. How about his serve? I know last night I was watching him, there was one serve that
was maybe 95, 94 miles an hour, he would kick, he would slide one.
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: Doesn't hit big serves, but he's very -- I mean, a lot of percentage
in, and he's mixing a lot, one kick, one slice, one in the body, and very deep serves.
Every time today when he was 30-All, 15-All, he hits the first serve, he's on the line.
These lines are so fast. I mean, not once I had the chance, like play. 30-All, I see the
chance, and then two big serves, that's it. 
 
Q. Are you disappointed at going out in the fourth round or is this just the kind of
day where he's the better player than you?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: I mean, I have to accept that he was better player today. I played
all the summer good tennis. I can be happy the way I play all this one month. I lost to
some good players. Is just a day, you know, a day that he played better, and he deserved
to win. 
 
Q. When your first serve doesn't come in, do you try and change anything?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: I don't know what did I try. I mean, I tried, but I didn't try, you
know. I just -- today I was maybe (inaudible). I was a little stupid today. I was hitting
the same stupid serves all the time, and same stupid mistakes all the time. 
 
Q. Is it strange to be here for a US Open and hear all this talk about baseball and
home runs all the time, or not?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: No. When I go to the hotel, I heard on TV, you know. But I don't
follow baseball so much. 
 
Q. Does it seem strange, since it's a sport that's not really known in Croatia or other
places, that it's such a big deal?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: In Europe, nobody cares about baseball. Is just here in the States
big. I mean, okay, I following only because the guy is hitting the home runs. Now he has
one more and going to break the record, so it's interesting. Otherwise, no way I going to
watch that. 
 
Q. Too slow?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: Probably for American people, it's a great sport. For them soccer is
boring. For us, baseball is boring. It's normal. 
 
Q. Looking at Rafter's game, on this surface, is this the best surface for him, number
one? Number two, is there someone in the field that you think will give him particular
trouble for a reason?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: I mean, anybody can give him trouble now. I don't know who is he
playing. Bjorkman? 
 
Q. Yeah, Bjorkman.
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: Bjorkman can give him trouble. Bjorkman is for sure best returner in
the game. I know anybody can give him. From now on, you have so many guys up there,
Agassi, Kucera, Pete. 
 
Q. How about his style of game on this surface?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: This surface fits him the best because it's fast, you can play from
the back, you can come in. I think that should be his best surface to play, in my opinion. 
 
Q. Bjorkman's returns are better than Agassi's? You say he's best in the world right
now.
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: Yes. For me, yes. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT