US OPEN
September 5, 1998
Goran Ivanisevic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Your good friend and next opponent, Patrick Rafter, was in here a few moments ago.
He informed us that you'd received a number of interesting items in the mail, including
handcuffs. Could you share with us what those items were, and where they came from, what
use they're going to be? 
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: I don't know. First time in my life I see handcuffs. I just came at
9:00 o'clock this morning, a little bit earlier, 9:15, I was checking the mail. I saw the
big package. It's my name. So I open, and I see handcuffs. I see there's something like
chocolate, it's like tube, so you probably do this for the painting, so you paint the girl
probably. I don't know what you do with it (laughter). I know -- I know from who, but I
can't tell you. But she said, "Don't open before your birthday." But I was
curious to see. 
 
Q. Who was it from? 
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: What? 
 
Q. Who sent it?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: I know, but I can't tell you that (laughter). 
 
Q. Was there a note?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: Sure, there was a note. 
 
Q. What did it say?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: I know you want to know, but I can't tell you (laughter). 
 
Q. Can you talk about your relationship with Patrick Rafter? You guys seem to be pretty
friendly.
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: Yeah, he's a nice guy and a great player, defending champion. Going
to be a hell of a match on Monday. Both playing very good tennis at the moment. He's
confident. I'm confident. We'll see. But somebody has to win, so it's going to be
interesting. 
 
Q. How confident are you right now? I mean, you're in the second week.
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: Oh, very confident. I beat Paul, which I usually used to lose to him.
The way I'm playing, it's very good. I mean, even today I was not very aggressive from the
back. I was keeping the ball in the play. I mean, I can play everything. I'm returning
well, serving well. I mean, I'm hitting the ball very good. So it's maybe the best ever I
play the US Open. But doesn't mean anything, you know. 
 
Q. John McEnroe said with the speed of the courts being so fast, if you've ever had a
chance at a Grand Slam, this could really be it. Are you feeling that way, as well?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: I had a chance '96, but nothing happened. I play Patrick. For him is
also -- this speed is good. He's going to serve and volley. Doesn't matter, you know, if I
play good, I can play slow, fast, hard court. But it's better, you know. I can hit more
aces. That's okay. 
 
Q. Looks like you solved the problem with your sleeve.
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: Yeah. I try, but is not -- doesn't help. Again, it's coming down. Is
best to cut it, you know. I don't think to can I any is going to like that. 
 
Q. What about something like that, both sides?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: Yeah, maybe. But this side is okay (indicating). I just have problems
with the other side. 
 
Q. That's something interesting, because that's the side you serve, the left. That
doesn't bother you at all?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: No. 
 
Q. Is it just the toss?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: Yeah, from the back, it's coming down, up, over. I always go like
this (indicating). In the middle of the point, I hit a forehand, then I go quickly like
that (indicating). It can be pretty annoying. 
 
Q. There's talk about you being the best player out here not to have won a Slam in
singles. Do you feel that at all? Is that pressure or frustrating?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: It's kind of the question I'm hearing for six, seven years. Every
time I come to a press conference, you know, always the same question. Always the same
stupid answer from me, you know (laughter). You know the answer. What can I tell you? I
know that I'm maybe the best player who never won a Grand Slam, but I'm trying. So
probably when I finish my career, I can say I won. But I give it the best. I mean, I gave
it a shot, you know. I was three times Wimbledon finalist. This time I was close. But it's
a chance here I can win this one, if I play good, if I continue to play like this -- 
 
Q. What were you saying to the line judge there in the third set?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: I don't think she made -- that ball was pretty wide. There was a mark
there. I just said, "Did you see it?" She was pretty serious, you know. Tough
lady. So I didn't say anything anymore. 
 
Q. She didn't send you the handcuffs?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: No -- I don't know. No, not her, no, sir. 
 
Q. Back to this note that you got in the package, Goran. Did it give you instructions
on your ball toss or how to punch your volleys?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: No, no, no. It give me different instructions (laughter). Gave me
instruction what to do with the handcuffs, and how to put it. The tube is nice, chocolate
tube is great, you know. Is to paint (laughter). 
 
Q. Going to try it out soon?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: Yeah, but I have to find somebody. This is pretty weird stuff, you
know (laughter). 
 
Q. They don't have anything like that in Croatia?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: Yeah, we have probably. But those things you hide. Maybe if you have
your wife or girlfriend, you do it. But you don't go out and say, "Oh, I bought the
handcuffs for my wife. We're going to have a great time tonight." 
 
Q. The other night you were banging your head on the court. How do you think that's
affected your game since then?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: Great. I started to play better. Probably something, sometimes I have
a little bit messed up there, I have to bang, then everything comes together.  
 
Q. Patrick said you guys were in the locker room, starting to say, "Bring it on,
I'm going to take you down." Did you guys start in the locker room trash talking a
little?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: Yeah, we started. We just have fun, you know. 
 
Q. Are you doing anything different this year as compared to the previous years?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: I don't think so. Everything is pretty much the same. 
 
Q. Is it always a battle against yourself out there to keep your concentration,
especially through a five-setter?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: I usually tease. When I'm clear with myself, then rarely I lose the
match. You know, I can lose to Pete or somebody really who is very good that day, but it's
tough when I have to play me and the other guy. It comes a little bit mixed up sometimes.
But lately, I'm playing most of the time against the other guys, not against myself. I'm
pretty good, you know, confident in my head. I'm pretty clear what I have to do, playing
good tennis. 
 
Q. One of Patrick's most important weapons is his kick second serve. Your height and
the fact that you're left-handed, does that help you neutralize that serve a little bit
more than other players? 
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: I don't know. I mean, maybe. I like kick second serves. Maybe he's
listening now, he's going to change. But if he serves good, I have to return good. I
return always good against Stefan Edberg who had this great kick serve. I had good results
against him. So I know Patrick, his serve is not so hard, but he's mixing his serve very
good, he's hitting kick, he's sitting slice, and it's tough to read his serves. I going to
have to really be very concentrate on his serve. Even if you hit a good return against
Patrick, he comes up with some great volleys. So it's going to be interesting. 
 
Q. What are the two or three things that are the key to your serve which many consider
to be the toughest in the game?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: My serve? 
 
Q. Your serve.
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: When I have a good rhythm, I mean, I don't think. Always before I
toss the ball, I know where to serve. Sometimes I change when I toss in the air, then is
not good. But when my rhythm is right, then everything is fine. It's very simple motion,
and I hit, you know. 
 
Q. Is the rhythm something you can work on mid match? 
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: It's tough, you know. When is rhythm not a hundred percent, then I
start to force it too much, start to go for the big serves. Usually those big serves don't
go in. Then I start to go for the big second serve. But lately I'm not going for these big
second serves, only sometimes when I'm 40-Love up. Hitting more kick serves, and is
working much better. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT