PILOT PEN INTERNATIONAL
August 21, 1998
Goran Ivanisevic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MIKI SINGH: Goran is our second semifinalist and will play the winner of Kafelnikov and
Ulihrach which is about to go on court. First question.

Q. It looked like a pretty comfortable match for you.

GORAN IVANISEVIC: Yeah, I was controlling the match from the beginning, but I think
when he had match like that yesterday for him, it was a hugest win ever in his career and
he must probably play well and today I think all those shots which went in yesterday, went
out today. But, I think I served good and I am not Sampras, you know.

Q. How badly did you want to play Pete? Were you hoping that you'd get another shot at
him after Wimbledon?

GORAN IVANISEVIC: Yeah, I wanted to play him, but it is okay. I am in the semis, so I
don't mind - I don't complain I didn't play - I going to play him sooner or later -.

Q. How long did it take you to get over that loss assuming that you are over it?

GORAN IVANISEVIC: It didn't -.

Q. You haven't gotten over it yet?

GORAN IVANISEVIC: No - no - no.

Q. How long do you think it will take?

GORAN IVANISEVIC: I don't know - the other one is the '94, it took me four years, so I
don't know - I don't know when I going to play the final next time -.

Q. Do you look at what Jana as maybe some inspiration that your time will come?

GORAN IVANISEVIC: Yeah, but she was twice in the final, I am three times now, but it
doesn't matter Jana or not, I just -- I was sure I was going to win - when you are 100%
sure, you lose then --

Q. What did you do following that the next Cup of days?

GORAN IVANISEVIC: I took three weeks off - I was on the boat in Croatia cruising
around, trying not to think, but it is always a time when you are alone, then you think.

Q. Do you think you are playing well enough right now to win the Open?

GORAN IVANISEVIC: Yeah, I playing good tennis, motivation is coming back - I more
happier to play and winning matches -- sooner I win more matches this motivation is going
to be back for the tennis and I think I am ready, if I play like this, and this U.S. Open
you have to win three sets, you never know -- with me you never know, anything is
possible.

Q. If you were to win one of the other Grand Slams the U.S. Open or the Australian,
would that help to soften the disappointment of Wimbledon?

GORAN IVANISEVIC: Oh, yeah, sure I take anyone. (laughter) Whatever.

Q. Was there anything concerning today's match that gave you any concern whatsoever? It
seem like you were just very comfortable throughout and he didn't pose much of a threat to
you personally, at least on this day, was that the way you get?

GORAN IVANISEVIC: Yeah, I get like that from the first point. I was returning better,
serving better from the back I was better - I think I play did -- actually I am playing
well all these couple of weeks. I mean, last week I actually win a match against Korda
with matchpoint, Toronto I had -- Agassi, I didn't let him in, but I don't know, I lost my
concentration, I lost. So I am playing good tennis - just I need this breakthrough that I
win tournament, play the Final and then it is going to be much better.

Q. What is needed to take that next step to break through? What is missing in your game
in your mind that is missing?

GORAN IVANISEVIC: It is maybe if I win the tournament that is going to be break, a
great thing for the U.S. Open -- I have another tournament coming next week, but if I can
win -- I never won a tournament in the States. I was twice in the final, once here and
once in Long Island -- once in Indy - it will be a great thing to achieve something before
I end up my career to win a tennis tournament in the States and I am capable of doing it
and the way I play now, it is possible.

Q. There was no concern after coming off of that big win from Paes did you think he was
going to keep that fire going?

GORAN IVANISEVIC: He is not easy. He came through qualies - he beat Rosset 3 and love.
He beat Bruguera 2 and 1 and beat Pete pretty easy. He is tough. He is tough to keep this
momentum going - especially with the way I play, you know, if I serve good, I don't give
him a lot of free points and he can -- he was trying to hit winners, but those were going
everywhere, those forehands - he was missing a lot. I knew this is my chance to start up
because I knew he was going to be a little bit down. He won yesterday, and then you go
like, whoosh, then now, me coming I have to jump on him straight away, which I did it and
the early break in the second and that was it.

Q. Do you fee like you have a really good chance to breakthrough and win this
tournament?

GORAN IVANISEVIC: Sure.

Q. You look like you are playing well.

GORAN IVANISEVIC: Sure, tomorrow, whoever I play, I never lost to Ulihrach in my life.
Kafelnikov I have a better score than him - so it is -- I can beat anybody. I can lose
too, but I know I playing good tennis and I know I am capable of also winning this
tournament.

Q. Do you think that Kafelnikov is a little bit like you, depends on what side of the
bed you wake up on the day?

GORAN IVANISEVIC: Yeah, probably. We should stay together in the room. (laughter).
Maybe I suggest him to do that. One bed, two beds, he wakes up on one side and --

Q. You want to tell us something.

GORAN IVANISEVIC: No. No - no. (laughter). Not for sure, but -- so I see which way he
gets up, on which side, so then we know we are ready or not - play golf straight away or
we come here.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT