GREAT AMERICAN INSURANCE ATP CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 1998
Goran Ivanisevic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Not quite the big one you were looking for to get back on track.

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Not like this.  This puts me even more down, especially after what I had today, so many break points, which is -- and I don't mean the match.  Three 4-1 in the third, Love-40, five 2- matchpoints, second serve, also had 4-1, Love-40. Nothing spectacular.  Twice second serve, I didn't do anything.  Second set, I had so many break points, 4-3, 15-40 break point, ace, 15-40 break point.  And when you have so many chances, you don't deserve to win any more.  But then I thought in the end, okay, I'm 5-3 serving good, then he came up with some serious good returns, especially at 5-0.  I mean, he hit two returns.  I didn't see the ball -- especially Love-15, I hit a great serve, and then it was Love-30 again. And then 30-40 he had some serious slice, really.  And then he had more guts and he the winner.


Q.  Did you feel the match slipping away or did  you always think you could make it?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  No but when you are at 4-1, Love-40 and I serve great, I say no problem.  And then matchpoints, and that slice was pretty bad.  I had 15-30 he didn't call the ball. And then we had another matchpoints and I had return in and the ball was good and he call it long.  So many mistakes, but even a lot of that game I felt now is just -- serve it at 15-30, I won the point and then I'm already walking and he's calling a let, I mean, from nowhere.  It's big difference, 15-40, 30-0.  15-40, I had the great second serve with the easy volley.  So it just can happen, you know.  But I mean those were the match that I shouldn't lose.  My game is not great, my confidence.


Q.  Can you just say, "it's not my day", walk away and forget it?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  It's not my day -- it's not my year, probably.  That's more like -- but what can I do.  On the team -- I know I can always go to play golf, which I'm going to do.


Q.  Do you feel good about the fact that you got into that position to win the match, despite missing so many shots?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I mean, the way I played, all the match was  -- some stage was okay.  I serve well from the back.  I was hitting the ball well and then suddenly, I don't know.  I was in front and then I start to push the ball, instead of just -- when you're 4-1, Love-40, you've still got a break and at least I should risk one -- one point, if I don't want to risk three points.  But still I don't want to play too safe. From three times -- it came in three times.  And he got one lucky slice at 15-40; ball didn't bounce at all but this happen.  He got more guts.  He more lucky in this game.


Q.  Goran, you say that it's not this year, but did you not feel that compared to the first six months of this year, you've now recovered (inaudible) and some of your reputation?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  But like I say, you never know with me.  I can always come up and play some great tennis. I'm playing good tennis at the moment, but I don't need to lose those kind of matches like I lost last week against Agassi.  And now again, if I wanted to get my motivation and confidence back, you know, especially after Wimbledon finals.  If you guys miss me two and one, I prefer that.  Then I know I don't serve well, I don't play well.  But I'm hitting the ball well.  And then last week I had match in my hand and I give him the match.   Today I serve for the match and I had some so many break points and again here -- sure, when he starts, he played good.  I couldn't do anything.  So my confidence not good, but what can I say?  I have another tournament next week and then another big tournament and hopefully I can play good there and then U.S. Open comes.


Q.  During Wimbledon, you showed fantastic self-discipline, the likes of which we have not seen before.  Can you not draw strength from that?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Even when I throw the records and I talk to the umpire, I am clear.  Sometimes I do to calm down and maybe everything okay.  Let's talk to him a little bit and let it out.  But I can't behave -- you know, whatever I feel on the court, you know.  But still too quiet is not good, then, it's better when I let my emotion out and mentally clear. When I'm keeping inside me, then I snap, one two points and then it's gone.  I need long to come back.


Q.  (Inaudible).

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Today was okay.  Today I had to talk to the umpire, to the linesman, the records one or two times. Everything -- but was nothing like crazy, everything was under control.  My head was under control, always believe that I can win even when I lost the second set with so many break points.  I was never, you know, out,  even 5-0, you know, I was still hoping I can win.  But then he start to play -- he's the guy who can just, you know, from 0 he can come to 1,000, you know, turn off something, turn on something and play some great shots.  You never know with him and he did.  But that's okay.


Q.  (Inaudible).

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  It's New Haven, after five, six years -- seven actually.  New Haven, little change is good.


Q.  Looking ahead to the U.S. Open, how difficult is that tournament to win, playing back-to-back and in the atmosphere in New York is a lot different than the other Grand Slams.  Is it more difficult?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Any Grand Slams is difficult.  Australia it's hot as hell and you go to French, you have to run like crazy.  You go to Wimbledon, it's another story.  It's mentally very tough, raining, stopping playing, any Grand Slams -- like U.S. Open it's going to be very humid, airplanes, lot of things.  But it's two weeks and you have to be prepared for anything.  And we came there to play to try and win and who is best prepared mentally -- and you have luck, and you have to have luck.  There's lot of luck.  Without luck you can go pack your things and go home.  And probably this year was my luck left me. Like they say it's better to be born without this thing  than with luck.  So if you have luck maybe it's growing.  But my case, I was born with this thing but no luck, lately.  So without luck, you can't win.  You cannot go in there into the bathroom without luck.  So that's the point.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT