EUROCARD OPEN
October 22, 1997
Goran Ivanisevic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. What is the injury, Goran? 
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: I don't know. I am going now to take MRI and they are going to tell
me more. 
 
Q. But, it is pretty painful?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: It is painful. I don't know why I played today. It is just maybe I
thought it is not going to be painful. Maybe I just wanted to play so badly and then in
the end, I just make myself stupid and they were booing me and they don't know why I
stopped. Just I make the mess without -- for nothing. 
 
Q. Does it hurt you when you get booed off the court like that?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: I mean, they don't know why I quit. And, I mean, it is stupid if
somebody stops to play, it is not because I want it. It is probably something wrong with
me and they were booing. But, I don't care. I mean, hopefully, it is not so bad, my
injury, but we will see what is going to happen. 
 
Q. How close were you beforehand not to playing? 
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: I was very close. I was maybe 10% to play, but then I was okay, maybe
it is better, maybe this, maybe that. I wanted to play so badly because I am playing good
tennis at the moment and I have a good chance to qualify because all the other guys are
losing who are close to me and it is just unbelievable. Finally, I find my game. I find
the desire to play again and then the injury happens. It is probably not my year. I have
to forget about this year. 
 
Q. How early in the match did you realize it was going to be a hopeless situation?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: I realized as soon as I lost my serve. At that point, I was in pain,
unbelievable, but I didn't play for three days -- I didn't serve, I mean, at all and my
serve was terrible. I mean, I was throwing the ball everywhere. I hit one serve 10 meters
long. It never happens to me. I mean, my serve was going everywhere and he was returning
pretty easy. But, then after it was -- I knew it is not going to happen. 
 
Q. Was it because he was able to return the serve so easily that you weren't making
those volleying errors in that first service game?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: I mean, he was returning pretty easy, but I couldn't put first serves
in the court. Every time I needed it, it was not there. Even when I am 100%, he is a tough
opponent. He is 19 in the world. He beat me before. He beat a lot of good players. So, he
knows how to play tennis. But like this, it is no fun for me to play. It is no fun for
anybody. 
 
Q. Perhaps the crowd saw the speed gun and I mean, you were serving like 205, 208.
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: It is no problem for me to serve. I can serve hard. It is not a
question of serving hard. I can hit the ball hard, but it is a question that when I hit
the serve 205, it is enormous pain and my whole shoulder, elbow is getting so tired. And,
then like it is okay; I hit a serve; I hit one more shot and then I cannot hold my racket,
it is getting so heavy. That is the problem. It is not a question that I cannot hit the
serve. I can hit the serve. I can hit anything, but it is just something is probably wrong
inside that makes my whole arm -- it makes it tired then. I have to find out why. 
 
Q. Did this just come on with playing with the heavier balls in Vienna?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: Something, I don't know what. I didn't play for a long time after the
US Open and then in Vienna, I played a lot of matches, a lot of serving, a lot of stress
and I don't know -- I don't know where this is coming from. The balls in Vienna, they was
so heavy.  
 
Q. Here?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: Here also. I don't know what they are trying to do there, but they
are putting some strange balls and I mean, anyway, my shoulder has been hurting for a
couple of years. But it is never like this. Now I always have a problem. So now is the
time. Maybe it is like a sign for me to go to check and see what -- because I want to
still play tennis and for one, two tournaments, it is not worth it to risk anything. 
 
Q. Do you still think you are going to Paris?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: I am going to find out now. I am going to the doctor at 7 o'clock and
do all the test, MRIs and probably tonight I will know. 
 
Q. How long were you told that you could recover from Sunday's injury?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: They told me a couple of days, but maybe it is worse than they
thought. I don't know how worse. I cannot say anything how bad it is before I do the MRI.
I do the MRI. When the guy tests me, then I am going to know what is the problem. 
 
Q. Is it that the way Tim played really hasn't got much to do with the result today?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: No, he played a solid game. He doesn't have any big shots, but he is
-- every shot is solid, forehands, backhand, serve, volleys. He is doing -- and there are
worse guys to play like him because you don't know where to play, forehand, backhand.
Whatever you play, it is solid. He doesn't have any big shots, and he is always doing --
giving 100%, always playing his solid game and that is why he is 19 in the world. 
 
Q. That contributed to you losing your head a little bit?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: I mean, to go into the match already knowing that even if I win
today, I don't know if I can play tomorrow, or you don't know if you are going to finish
the match, that makes me very nervous, very nervous, very -- I mean, maybe today I was
very close, if I continued the match - I was very, very aggressive, not because I was
losing, but because all of this pain in the shoulder. All these things were happening.
And, a little bit sad because I am playing good tennis and I am not able to produce at the
moment because of this. So I was very pissed about everything. Nothing is over yet. If
they say next week I can play and then I still have two tournaments, but so now I have to
see what is going to happen. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT