THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 23, 1997
Goran Ivanisevic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Nobody.


Q.  What do you think about the crowd atmosphere tonight?  You had a few reactions.

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I think a lot of mistakes by umpire.  He let that happen, not only this last call.  I think my second serve was in the court, the other one I didn't see.  He won both points after that.  Nothing hurt him.  He made a lot of bad calls even before in the first and second set.  I mean, there were some idiots like everywhere, especially here, it's always a couple of idiots there.  It's okay, you know.  They come.  It's a free country, so any idiot can come and watch tennis.


Q.  Goran, you may have answered this, but what did the people say to you?  What were they saying?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  The guy told me, damn me.  I  think it's not a great thing to say.  But then I hit ace.  I like that when it's more pressure on me, then I can play much better, when they scream and yelling and clapping.  I make the opposite reaction inside me, then I always play better.


Q.  Goran, you make the game very exciting and fun to watch.  How do you want to be perceived as a competitor?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  What do you mean?


Q.  You make it fun.  How do you want people to perceive you?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I don't care.  However I play, however I behave, they always going to think different, so I don't know.


Q.  What was your opinion of Spadea's service returning today?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  He's a great player.  He's a really tough player.  He had great results before.  I mean, he's returning my 128 serve almost winner.  He's taking the ball so early, I didn't have any time.  I play one short ball and he just comes in.  The same when I serve.  In the third set, he started to put too much pressure on my second serve, so I start hit harder, some more double-faults.  Every time I hit a second serve, he came in.  I didn't have any chance.  But every time on the breakpoint when I needed, I hit a good first serve.  That's  what happened.


Q.  When you serve like that, do you expect the other guy to return the serve so well like he did?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I knew he has a good return of serve.  He grew up on those courts.  You see almost every American, they return great.  They stay very close to the line and they take every serve, from Agassi to him.  They just take the ball.  They pick the side and they really doing good.  I mean, I serve very good, but not lot of guys can return my serve like this.  That's one good thing.  If I can keep serving like that, it's going to be okay.


Q.  How long are you going to grow your hair?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I don't know.  It doesn't get on my nerves yet, so it's still okay.  Probably pretty soon, because clay is coming, a lot of running.  Jumping and everything, gets sweaty.  Starts to get on my nerves a little bit.  Start to get like glue to my neck.  I don't like that.  It's going to come off pretty soon probably.


Q.  Off totally or just short?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Off, I don't think so.  I wait for another moment to cut it off.  I cut slowly, piece by piece.
 


End of FastScripts....


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT