U.S. OPEN
September 7, 1996
Goran Ivanisevic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Was it a slow start?

GORAN IVANISEVIC: Slow - I mean, second game he didn't do anything, two doublefaults,
two easy mistakes. He just stand there and won the game. I gave him two many presents
today and I didn't have too many chances. I mean, he served unbelievable. Every time when
I had breakpoint he came with unbelievable serve. Second set, same thing, present on my
serve and you can't do that against him. If you give him too many presents, you are gone,
especially if he serves like that he was serving too good. And then suddenly I got a
chance take break. He got a little tight; made doublesfaults. I had passed him once; then
I won the tiebreak and then instead of pushing harder on his second serve I get into the
match again. He was a little down and instead of breaking him at this 2-All, I don't know
what was the game, I let him get through that game and this game was another little
present, you know, Love-40, deuce and then two easy mistakes, and you can't do that
against Sampras, otherwise no chance, especially when he serves like today, no way.

Q. Did you feel he was getting tired?

GORAN IVANISEVIC: He was -- I don't know if he got tired. He was real down after the
third set. Then I should jump straight on, but you have to put some returns. That was my
chance, when he was missing some first serves, I didn't -- I was not able to put returns
back and that is it. And then after when he gives you the chance, you don't take it, that
is it, you know, thank you very much, I gave you a little chance you didn't take it; now
it is my turn and then came with some great serves. I can't do anything when he put the
first serve. I can just guess and try to hit return back, but that is it.

Q. Were the conditions difficult today the wind and the planes?

GORAN IVANISEVIC: A little wind wasn't bothering me. Just little upset because this
first game of the second -- of the first set when I served, he just stand there waiting
for my mistakes, two doublefault, two easy, one fault and one volley, I can't do that,
especially semifinals Grand Slam. I am not allowed; especially against him. And then he
just -- you give him that, he gets confident and he is just rolling, playing like
unbelievable. Try to stay with him in the beginning and it is more difficult for him. 

Q. Were you finding it hard to forget about that game?

GORAN IVANISEVIC: Okay, I mean, I forgot, but I didn't have a chance to break. He was
serving too good; then I had 15-40 in the second set, two aces, I didn't see the ball, and
then he broke me again. I didn't put too many first serves. I missed a couple of forehands
and now same story. Three breakpoints, I came to deuce, again, two easy mistakes, I
mean.....

Q. In the tiebreak, when you were down, did you feel that you still had a chance?

GORAN IVANISEVIC: Yeah, I felt, I -- especially when I won that game, when I won that
point 6-4, now I said, okay, if he misses first serve, you never know, maybe he is going
to get a little tight. He did, a little tight. He made a doublefault. Then 6-5, like
pushing the ball and I knew he is not going to attack. I knew if I have short ball, I
should hit, that is what I did and he missed it. And then I won. But I was not able to
return his second serve. That was a key point, the second set when he started to serve not
so good to try to take advantage on his second serve, but I was hitting too many -- too
hard and all the mistakes, instead of putting in and trying to rally with him, because he
was a little down; then I let him back in the match, then it is tough. He is No. 1. He is
not going to let it go.

Q. If he plays like this, what do you think his chances are for tomorrow?

GORAN IVANISEVIC: If he serves like this, he has a great chance. I mean, he serves
unbelievable. I mean, he is very -- very tough. I mean, Chang is playing good tennis, but
I think he has good chance if he is playing like this.

Q. Were you surprised he came out so strong being that he obviously had difficulties in
that last match?

GORAN IVANISEVIC: I knew it is not such a big deal, you know. I mean, I knew he was
going to be strong today. Nothing to do. He had one day to recover. It is not -- he just
throw up in that match, not a -- he didn't die, if you know -- (audience laughter). This
is semifinals, so you have to come strong, so I knew he is nothing to going to bother him
today, that match was past and he came through and pretty strongly.

Q. This is the last year that the stadium will be the prime show court. Do you have any
good memories from your years out there?

GORAN IVANISEVIC: I have great memories, I mean, I came this year, I made my best
tournament semifinals. I mean, I am disappointed, sure, that I lost today, but, you know,
it is nice. I won a couple of good matches. I beat Stefan. I think I show some good tennis
these two weeks in this tournament and I am happy, so next year going to be a new stadium
maybe I will have a better chance.

Q. Aside from the speed of the serve, what is so difficult?

GORAN IVANISEVIC: It is tough to read the serve. You have some players they throw the
ball -- if they serve to my backhand, they throw one side -- if they serve, I mean,
inside, they throw the ball the other. He throws the ball always the same, then he
switches, it is tough to read, tough to pick his serve. That is why he is one of the best
servers in the game, you know, don't hit so hard. He hits with a lot of wrist and a lot of
slice. Those serves are the most difficult to return.

Q. Did you think that you might have a chance the longer the match goes on?

GORAN IVANISEVIC: Yeah, I had a chance, but I slipped my chance. I got him back two
careless mistakes in that game, 4-3, deuce, I mean, I hit two good serves. I hit little
miss-hits return and twice easy mistakes and that is it. He is not going to let the match
go. He let it once, not twice.

Q. What is next for you?

GORAN IVANISEVIC: Next I am playing Monday in Bucharest. Then I am playing Davis Cup
after that.

Q. How frustrating is it to you to get to the finals and the semifinals at all the big
tournaments and not breakthrough yet?

GORAN IVANISEVIC: Very frustrating, but what can you do? I mean, I don't know, I can
only jump from the bridge, you know, on the way to the hotel (audience laughter). But I
don't know, maybe it is still some hope for me. This year is past with the Grand Slams and
next year.

Q. What will you have to do different to win a Grand Slam?

GORAN IVANISEVIC: Nothing, try to take these chances with the guy that the guy give to
me and try to put it in. If you do this, if you make these chances, then you are going to
win. I was not able to make these chances and I lost.

Q. Is that just because of your preparation or coaching?

GORAN IVANISEVIC: Not preparation. Just tennis. Tennis is a tough sport. You are alone.
There is -- no one can change you if you play bad. It would be nice if you play couple of
bad games and a new guy comes in, but you can't do that. You are there alone and it
doesn't -- I will have to try to find the reason why and try to -- I fought back. I gave
everything what I could today and was not enough.

Q. Did you also have the impression that from the very moment this tournament started
everybody was thinking about Sampras/Agassi final?

GORAN IVANISEVIC: Everybody is, but you can't do that in the Grand Slams, especially
now in this times. Everybody playing good tennis and always in the Grand Slams somebody is
going to come through, so you can't say Sampras/Agassi final here or in Wimbledon, this
one's final, now, nothing is sure, you know.

Q. Would you predict anything for tomorrow's final?

GORAN IVANISEVIC: I am bad at predicting. Every time I say I say wrong, so... (audience
laughter). Let them play it.

Q. You used to travel with Father Joe. Are you still with him?

GORAN IVANISEVIC: He is my friend, so I just wanted to see the tournament and I took
him there to see the tournament.

Q. What did he bring to you?

GORAN IVANISEVIC: I didn't bring him there for the spiritual thing. I just bring him as
a friend and there was a big story like I am some guy that is a crazy man (audience
laughter). That there is -- he stay with my father. I stay in a hotel. I just saw him when
I play, and nothing to do with -- he is a friend and good friend and never he was at this
tournament and I enjoyed it. So I did better without him here. I don't know what is wrong.

Q. For a European pro what is the most important thing to know about travelling through
America playing tennis tournaments?

GORAN IVANISEVIC: Not to make any problems. I mean, we don't like so much, Europeans to
stay too much in the States, you know, Americans they don't like in Europe too much, you
know, so, but this year I enjoy it. Before I was making too many problems. This year I
have more fun and that is why I am playing much better on this hard courts and enjoying
more the states.

Q. So you are liking America more these days?

GORAN IVANISEVIC: Much more.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT