U.S. OPEN
August 27, 1996
Goran Ivanisevic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. How does it feel to finally win here again?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: Feels great. I mean, tough match. I was not so happy when I was
supposed to play court 16, then I have to play center court, night match. Same thing
happened last year. I twisted my ankle. I was a little nervous in the beginning. He played
good, and I couldn't put so many serves in, balls in. I started to play better. It's nice
to win. 
 
Q. A lot of unforced errors in the first set, it seemed?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: Yeah, a lot. But he put everything back. I started to think, "I
can't beat him like this if he gets every ball back." I started to serve and volley a
little bit more, start to take his second serve, come in. I broke his rhythm a little bit
by coming in, by dropshots, serve and volleying, staying back, hitting winners. When I
started to put the ball in, then I was better. I put more balls in, come in on the better
shots. That was important. 
 
Q. Do you feel like the New York jinx is over for you now?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: Hopefully. I still came this year to make my goal, to try to reach
the second week of this tournament, which I never did in eight years. If I achieve that,
then I going to be happy. 
 
Q. How do you feel you play compared with Indianapolis?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: I think I played good. I'm fit. My game is here. It's just important
now to win. I can't change anything anymore. If I want, it's too late now. The game is
here, everything is here, my mind is here. Now we just have to wait. 
 
Q. Do you feel like now that you've got this under your belt, you'll be more
comfortable on center court here or on any of the courts here?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: Yes. I need these couple of matches, especially matches like this,
tight matches, to get through and then I think I going to be fine. Then I can be
dangerous. 
 
Q. Did you take any care about all the discussions about the seeding and the draw?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: I was a little bit messed up at first. One day it's one draw, next
day I woke up and I see Chesnokov, I see might be mistake, then I see everything is
turned. I think it's not fair. I think one ATP ranking, one seeding. Thomas No. 2 in the
world, he should be No. 2 ranked. If I'm No. 6, I shouldn't be No. 4 seed. You shouldn't
put Kafelnikov No. 7. They should have one ranking for Wimbledon, US Open, French. They
should go by that ranking. I think it's not fair to change every week. Then they have one
draw, one seeding is different, another draw, they turn everything around. I don't know
why they doing it. Now it's finished, so. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT