RCA TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
August 18, 1996
Goran Ivanisevic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 

Q. The 3-0 second set, 40-Love, you lead, second serve, I think, 130; it was a doublefault; then another doublefault; eventually you lost that game.  What what was happening?
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I lost concentration a little bit.  It was bad game.  I didn't have to go for the big -- so big I have to go for 125 or 130, but bad game, two doublefaults and another I played really bad in that game against him, you are not allowed to do that; otherwise it is tough to come back.  No chances.  Plus after all that bad games, I got a chance.  I played good at 5-4 and again I played a pretty bad game.  I got another two doublefaults, not too many first serves in and that is the way - I started pretty bad with these games, so mean, with him you have to be, from the first moment, on the top.  That is what you have to do and not let easy chances slip away. 
 

Q. Do you think you lost your rhythm on the serve at the end of the match?
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  A little bit.  I don't know what I tried to do because in the beginning after I lost my serve, I was serving much more aggressive, coming in.  Then I started to  throw it higher and stay back.  Even when I hit the first serve in, didn't follow the serve, so I was starting to miss a lot of first serves. 
 

Q. Otherwise it was a good match?
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Well, it was good match.  It is tough even -- it is tough to beat him.  He serves -- he gives you a little chance and then he hits you two aces.  Then he plays unbelievable shot like he did on matchpoint.  All these little things, you have to always be concentrate, ready for everything when -- he can hit a couple of bad shots and then 10 unbelievable, so he is No. 1, you don't -- you are not allowed to give him any chances. 
 

Q. Is he back in top form now?
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I don't think top, top, but he is always tough to play and he is going to be very tough to beat at U.S. Open, especially, three sets; when he serves good and his forehand - tough to beat. 
 

Q. Are you back in top form?
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I am playing good.  I am happy the way I played this week before I came here.  I didn't play well and now I am in the final.  I gave good match today, I mean, it would be a little bit different today if I had couple of points here and there, be 7-6, 7-5, for me, but it is for him.  It is always, when I play him, like this because matches -- I am playing good.  I have one more tournament to go before U.S.  Open, and I think in these next week I think I can be prepared for U.S. Open well. 
 

Q. Don't you think it is too much playing this tournament and Toronto just a week before the U.S. Open?
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  It is a little bit.  Maybe it is too much, but that is okay.  Better to play something than to stay one week and practice.  I don't like that and then match comes and I am too nervous, like to play and do whatever, the best you can; then you come to New York and the tournament starts. 
 

Q. How do you rate your chances there?
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I don't know.  I mean, I set a goal to reach the second week.  That is my goal in U.S. Open this year, try to be there on Monday, not as a tourist - second-week player.  So if I achieve that then I can be dangerous after that. 
 

Q. Goran, you have played a lot of good tennis on American soil, but yet you don't have a title to show for it.  Does that kind of get to you after a while?
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I mean, it is sad, but every time when I play the final, I lost against some great players, and to lose to Pete here - I know nobody likes to lose - but you lose to No. 1 player.  Key Biscayne maybe was my chance, but I was unable to play it.  Hopefully it is not the last time I am in the final on USA tournament.  Plus I prove now to myself that I can play on hard court, which can be maybe one of my best surfaces, better than clay which I didn't believe before when I was coming here to the States. 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT