RCA TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
August 14, 1996
Goran Ivanisevic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Goran, is 136 the fastest you have ever served?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I served that today? 


Q. Just two points before the end of the match. 

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Yeah.  I think 135 was fastest or 136.


Q. Congratulations.  You put your game together, it seems in the 7th game of the third set; isn't that right?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I started to put couple of -- because it is very tough to play here and it was windy and the balls are flying a lot.  They are the worse balls in the world.  The balls are getting heavy and then sometimes you hit; it is going straight to the fence.  Sometimes you hit; it doesn't go anywhere and I tried to hit too many winners and it was not working and then in the end I was already going and then I said, okay, just try to put some balls in the court and make him hit a winners and then he got a little tight and then  I broke him and then after I started to play much better.


Q. Your concentration was good during the match?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Concentration was not so good.  I started pretty slowly.  Then I broke back.  I had two-set points.  He hit two aces and then it was not great, but in a game like this, if I can manage to win it, it is okay.


Q. Can you talk about the way the first set ended with the overrule and then how you got your mental game back?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  That was pretty bad call.  First he didn't overrule straight-a-way.  He wait for him to complain.  Then after a couple of seconds, he said the ball was good.  I mean, then important game for me was 1-0.  Then he had two breakpoints.  I hit couple of good serves.  Then I broke him.  Then I got into the match back, but still it was a lot of frames.  He hit a lot with the frame.  I hit with not too many good rallies, but matches like this, you have to struggle and try to win and today I struggled and I won and I think it is going to hip me for next match.


Q. Your first serve percentage wasn't very high today.  Like in the 30 percentile.  Was that part of the struggling on your part?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Yeah, I tried to force too much.  I tried to hit every serve 125 miles an hour and I broke my arm almost with these balls.  It is not going and sometimes instead of mix, sometimes hit the second serve a little bit variation,  but today I was just hitting one serve and pretty stupid, but in the end, I hit two aces now when he had two breakpoints; when I needed to hit first serve, I always put first serve in. 


Q. You are second on the Tour in breakpoints saved.  Is that where you bring your best tennis, breakpoints?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I always play best when I am under pressure, when I am down.  When he has 15-40, then I hit, I don't know why, I don't hit when I am up.  Just like this always with me.  When I am down, I just hit the ball and with pressure I hit ace, I go for the shot and it is okay.  I don't mind.


Q. Are these balls so much different from the ones they used last week?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Completely different ball.  Different everything.  There the ball is not flying so much.  It is better to hit -- with these ones, you never know what to expect.  Sometimes it is going straight to the fence.  Sometimes it is not going and they get pretty big after a couple of games, but these balls you are going to use at U.S. Open, so I better not complain.  I better get used to it. 


Q. It means you are going to have a hard time at the U.S. Open?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  No, if I put my mind together, then it is going to be okay. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT