GREAT AMERICAN INSURANCE ATP CHAMPIONSHIP
August 9, 1996
Goran Ivanisevic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. How do you feel you played today, Goran?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: I didn't play very good. But he didn't do anything, I start pretty
wild, you know, I start -- I didn't keep to his game, but everything went in. Today was
opposite everything he was just putting the ball in, two balls and then third one was
going 10 meters long, plus I had a chances 4-2 to break back, 5-3 another break back, and
what surprised me today he served very good. He never served against me like that and that
is what made the big difference. 
 
Q. Do you see any differences in his serve or he is just hitting it harder?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: He was hitting very hard and very accurate, on the lines, deep. I
couldn't do too much. Every time I have breakpoint, he put first serve in. I had a chance
the second set and another two breakpoints, another two big serves and no chance. 
 
Q. What was going through your mind in the second set were you sort of saying to
yourself "this is my chance? I will play better?" 
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: I started to serve much better. I did have chances and then I lost
concentration at 4-All, but I managed to win that game with a couple of big serves. And
5-All, I played a terrible game, 40-15 and then I hit four forehands with the frame. I
mean, without any -- he didn't put any force. I mean, he just put the ball back and I hit
four easy forehands, and with him, you cannot afford to do that. I gave him too many easy
mistakes today, which against Chang, if you do that, there is no way you can win. 
 
Q. What caused you to lose your concentration?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: I mean, I am still not playing my best tennis. I won two rounds here
which I was surprised the way I played. Today I was not in my best and I mean, I am pretty
happy with this tournament, but today I didn't -- if this went in, all the things, it
would be a different story, but everything was going long and a lot of close calls, close
to the line and every time they call it long, so -- 
 
Q. You say are not playing your best tennis right now. What is wrong?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: Nothing is wrong. I had some 20 days off before Atlanta and I didn't
practice so much, so it is still a lot of things to improve in my game. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT