GREAT AMERICAN INSURANCE ATP CHAMPIONSHIP
August 8, 1996
Goran Ivanisevic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Talk about that first set.
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: I had my chances first set, but I didn't -- first game I served four
aces; then next game I didn't put one serve in the court, first serve, and then he broke
me and with him you have to put pressure with your serve otherwise it is very dangerous.
So I was a little bit up and down and I had breakpoints. He hit ace. And then second set
he had breakpoint straight away, but then after I came back and a couple of crucial games
that 3-1, Love-40; 4-2, Love-30, then I came up with big serves in the third set, I just
served too good, and he didn't have any chance. 
 
Q. Do you feel like you had an inconsistent match or just good enough to win or --
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: With him, he has a game that I don't like. He gives you very dead
balls and you think you can hit every one of them; then suddenly he just accelerates and
he hits a winner. And then you give him the short one, a slow one, and he hits a winner.
You never know what he is going to produce. He is a tough player. But I think I played
good and -- because I won, because otherwise I wouldn't win. 
 
Q. With as little as practice time and match time as you have had since Wimbledon, are
you pleased with the way you are serving?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: I am very pleased with the way I am playing because I start to
practice and I came here, you know, seriously when my coach arrived, so these couple of
days of practice and two matches, I think I am playing good tennis and I can't complain. I
can play only better. 
 
Q. What you were saying yesterday, is this the first time that your coach has really
supervised you since Wimbledon?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: First time he supervised me after Wimbledon. 
 
Q. How long did it take you to get over the disappointment of the semifinal?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: Quarters? 
 
Q. Quarterfinals, I am sorry.
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: It takes time, but, you know, I wanted to have my holidays and I
don't want to think too much about Wimbledon, but then I go there and everybody ask me
"you didn't win, if you didn't win this year, you are never going to win." You
know, people are strange in my country and they write me on the car, "you are never
going to win Wimbledon; you had the chance now." They don't understand. It doesn't
matter who is in the draw. You have to beat everybody. I was disappointed, but I had a
good time off and I recovered pretty quick. 
 
Q. Was there a fair amount of negative stuff at home?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: A lot. It is always negative. It is pretty negative city where I
live. They are all negative. When you play good, "oh, oh great." As soon as you
a little bit down, they don't ask you how you feel; if you are injured. You have to win
and then they give you so much in the paper or people in the streets. 
 
Q. They left notes on your car?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: Yeah, they leave notes. Strange people. But the city like that, you
have to be good, otherwise it is tough to go back. 
 
Q. With Davis Cup, you could expect the same sort of thing?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: Ooh, it is going to be tough, Davis Cup, for me, I better win. At
least my matches, you know, it is going to be great support. It is going to be tough with
Australia, but I better win. 
 
Q. He seemed to be struggling with his groundstrokes today; especially in the third
set. Were you doing anything to maybe keep him off balance or --
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: He or me? 
 
Q. He did.
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: He did, yeah. I think I played better in the third set also from the
back because first set I didn't move him too much left and right and then in the end, I
think I played better. I played deeper and didn't miss so much and he had trouble. He
missed a lot of easy balls which I was surprised, which I don't mind. 
 
Q. The mental strides you have made during the U.S. Summer hard court season that you
come in here and lose the first set in the heat like it was and sort of regroup; get a
break and cruise on after that?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: I think I changed a lot this year a matter of this -- maybe before
when I lose the set, I go a little bit down and not that I don't fight, but, you know,
mentally go down and then I lose most of the matches. But this year, I think I improved
that a lot and I proved that against Sampras in Key Biscayne which was killing me, 6-2,
1-0, no chance, and the rain came and I came back and I won the match. A lot of matches, I
won this year like that. I think I am much better. So a lot of guys, they think, okay, I
have to win first set, but he is gone. I think they are making mistake, I don't know. 
 
Q. Goran, most likely Michael Chang next. Talk about what problems his game presents
for you?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: First I hope I am going to play night match and if I play night
match, I will be good because we play in Key Biscayne. I like to play him. I think we have
a lot of matches. He won a couple of times, and I won, but with him you have to win
points, three times, he is never -- it is never over. Always the ball comes back, but I
have my things when he doesn't like when he plays me, but he has to win first. 
 
Q. Are you surprised you are playing as well as you are with the layoff?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: I am surprised. When I saw the draw I said, geez, it is pretty tough.
Then Todd lost and I am in the quarters and beating Bjorkman and Karbacher, which are two
good players; especially with this match today, I think I am pleased with the way I am
playing at the moment. 
 
Q. Years ago players used to be able to lobby where they could play and say I am going
to play at night; I don't want to play in the day. Is there any of that today? Do you get
to, you know, let your feelings known?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: No, nobody ask me. I have to play whenever. 
 
Q. You have never gone to the tournament officials and say can I play a night match?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: Actually I hate to play night matches, but I would like to play night
matches this time. 
 
Q. Because of the weather?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: Yeah, today was okay. After the first set a couple of clouds came and
it was very nice to play, but yesterday was unbelievable. It was really tough; especially
if you have to play Michael on the ground for one hour, it is going to be tough. But it
doesn't matter, I am professional and you have to play wherever they put me and try to
win. 
 
Q. Can you comment about Indianapolis?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: Indianapolis is next week, so I am still here, so I will think when I
come there, but as a tournament, I think it proved that it is the best tournament six,
seven years in a row and I mean, they take great care. It is a little hot, but last year I
had a good tournament, semis. I had a great fun there and probably going to be the same
this year. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT