TELECOM ITALIA MASTERS
May 3, 2004
Goran Ivanisevic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  To lose with an ace is not nice.

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  No, it's okay.  He served good, so it's okay.  Ace, no ace, it's never nice to lose.  Doesn't matter if it's ace or no ace. 

Q.  How do you feel?  Can you talk about your moment, your condition.

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Shoulder felt okay, but I play very bad today, I don't know.  Is not a problem that I play bad, everybody can play bad, but I don't feel good on the court.  I felt little bit lost, like I never played tennis before.  Because he didn't do anything.  He served okay, but, otherwise, he just put one ball in the court and that was it, you know.  He didn't have to do anything.  So I just didn't feel very good.  Happens. 

Q.  Are you playing now because you are trying to find your rhythm on court?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I mean, I'm playing because I want to play Wimbledon and there is two choice  - to stay home and practice for two months, which I don't want to, because I don't have fun to practice so much anymore.  And, plus, you know, two months, again stop and then play...  Or is just to be on the Tour and play.  Because there are weeks I play okay.  I didn't win, but that was okay.  Today was not good.  But for me is better to play, just to have match.  Shoulder is better when I play, is like engine.  When you stop, and then it needs time to go on again.  So more I play, shoulder is better.  And, hopefully, I survive little bit more before I come to rest.

Q.  Family is growing up?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Family is growing up. 

Q.  You didn't play for many months, but your fans are still here.  Everyone loves you.  Do you love them? 

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I love them.  I love everybody (smiling).  No, yeah, I have always a lot of fans in Italy.  I did well here.  I played twice semis - three times maybe - one final, and I won Milan.  I play always good in Italy, so it's just they still like me, and it's fun to come back again.  Just today I feel sorry that I give such bad performance, you know.  But they still supported me, you know, even I play so bad.  They were still  -- one guy said, "Doesn't matter," you know, "You're still good." 

Q.  Do you think they are there to watch your game, watch your serve, or even to watch some crazy things, you broke some racquets?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I didn't break anything, you know (smiling). 

Q.  Maybe they are hoping. 

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  They are hoping.  I didn't even have fun to break anything today.  That's how I felt, you know.  Today's such a day when, you know... Even if somebody told me, "Break," I wouldn't break.  You just...  But I don't know.  With me, anything is possible.  When I come on the court, you know, anything happens.  So they always expect something, something is gonna happen.  But today, nothing happen.  Today was show but no actors in the show, you know.  Disappointing. 

Q.  You have done very much for your country, for Croatia, when there was the war.  Now Croatia is growing up.  Which is the situation, and what do you think to do for Croatia now? 

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Me, I can't do anything.  But the situation is fine.  Now was elections, the change of government.  They're all the same, politicians.  They're the same.  They just talk, talk.  They lie before elections, and you vote for them and they don't do anything.  It's everywhere the same. 

Q.  In Italy is not like this (smiling).

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Now we are fighting to go to the European community, 2007.  But I don't see the point, what is good to go to European community.  Everything is more expensive, everybody has equal things.  So I wish we don't go to the European community, but everybody wants to go, so... But we gonna have still time, maybe 2007, 2008.  But situation is fine.  Life is fine.  People are unhappy.  Summertime, we have beautiful coast, you know, very nice  - sea, women, everything, food.  Nice country to live.  Similar to Italy, no  - especially where I come from, Split, close to Ancona. 

Q.  Yes, I know this, but in Italy and especially in Western Europe what people knows about Croatia is you and the soccer players and nothing else.  Why? 

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Well, I don't know why.  That's government fault.  We have to explore more our sea, our food, our something.  But, you know, sports is easy.  They know me, they know football players, we were third in the World Championship in '98.   But I think, you know, we think we are beautiful country, but we think because we are beautiful, everybody's gonna come.  That's not going like that, you know.  You have to do something for people to come, you know.  So I think they have to do more  - more on TV, they have to travel more to talk about more about Croatia.  Summertime comes, and they put the price, it's so expensive.  They want to make money in two months.  It's impossible like that.  But, hopefully in the future, the future is gonna be better.  I think -- I see 10, 15 years.  Because it's not easy after the war, you know, it will be change of generation and a lot of things has to happen, you know.  So I think we need another 10, 15 years to be perfect. 

Q.  Is true or not, that in that incredible, wonderful, fantastic Wimbledon when you were in trouble with your shoulder, you say something, looking up, "Please, let me win this, and then I promise to you I won't play again."  Is true or no?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I said, yeah, yeah.  But you cannot bargain with God, you know.  You ask him one thing, he give me what I want.  And I want more.

Q.  Why you are playing more if you made a promise to God?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Because I won Wimbledon and then it's tough to stop, you know. 

Q.  A promise is a promise. 

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I know is a promise, but I say, "Okay..."  I thought he's not going to  -- he's gonna let me play.  But since then, everything is going downhill. 

Q.  Yes, is a promise. 

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  My shoulder is getting worse.  Last year when I tried to come back, I step on the shell in Miami, two and a half months, I need to have operation.  Like, you know, is doing something, you know.  I get scare sometimes, you know, "Sorry," (looking up) but...  I am going through the wall, you know.  I want to come to Wimbledon.  I think I deserve that; maybe I don't, but I think I do.

Q.  You are Catholic?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I am.

Q.  So, if you give a promise...

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Yeah, but, no...  A lot of Catholic people, they promise and then  they -- but it's different kind of promise.

Q.  But you are honest. 

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Yeah.  But you see what happening.  You know, I have pain.  This is not getting better, depends of the day.  Today was okay, and tomorrow maybe I can't serve.  Like in Miami, one day was good, the other day I have to stop the match.  So it's up and down, you know.   Every time when I wake up, I don't know if I can serve or not.  So he heard me and now he's...

Q.  In Italy we say "Don't do promise to children and to Saints."  Now? 

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Yeah, I made promise to the wrong man, you know (laughter).  Now I am in trouble.  I have to go to Pope, you know, I tell him, "Listen... Talk to him.  Tell him two more months."   Two more months is not too much time, you know.  Is not.  But we'll see.  But there is something there.  It's scary, but it is.  You know, I won Wimbledon; I don't know why.  I didn't play good.  I lost in Queen's, I play very bad.  Everything was bad.  After one week, I start to play best tennis of my life.  Why?  I don't know. 

Q.  Was a miracle, do you think?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  It has to be.  I come, suddenly start to play, after one and half years, best tennis of my life.

Q.  And with your father?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  And plus with my bad shoulder.  Something was written there, that it has to be.  And then why?   And that rain against Henman also came in the right time.  Why?  He knows why (pointing up).  But he also knows why now I have pain, you know, and why everything, you know  -- other things are happen, you know, to me, this problems, that problems.  I am every week injured.  Okay, I am older, but back, shoulder, this, foot.  But still I gonna keep playing.  Maybe he's gonna struck me with the lightning, lightning (smiling). 

Q.  How long do you think you will keep on playing at the moment? 

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I don't know.  I don't know.  I have to play Wimbledon, that's for sure.  And after Wimbledon, I don't know.  Every time, I say I have to play.  Last year I didn't play.  The year before I didn't play.  So we'll see.  We'll take day by day, you know.  Who knows what comes tomorrow? 

Q.  Someone says you are playing because you have financial problems.  Like other players, they came back because they lost money.

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Think I can make some money today?  $6,000.  Is not going to help my financial problems.  Every week I lose first round.  No contract.  So I don't think financial...  No, no, no, is not true.  Even if I would have financial problems, is not a question I play tennis.  I mean, I play tennis because I went for surgery, I lost two years for nothing, and I think I deserve  - in my opinion  - just another run.  How long, I don't know.  We'll see.  What happens, happens.  Every day is a new day.  Enjoy it.  I have a different life now.  I have a daughter, and she is the number one priority in my life.  And it's fun. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT