GREAT AMERICAN INSURANCE ATP CHAMPIONSHIP
August 7, 1996
Goran Ivanisevic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. You have one match in before today. How do you assess you are playing since
Wimbledon? You feel like you are ready for this?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: I was surprised that I played today because I took 20 days off after
Wimbledon. I came to Atlanta without one day practice. Lost first round and then I didn't
practice there too much because all the other sports, I was watching, having fun there, so
first serious practice out here when my coach came, so I was surprised the way I hit the
ball and I think I am going to be ready for U.S. Open. 
 
Q. Was that distracting for you there what happened in Atlanta?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: No, you can't practice there. You go watch handball, basketball,
water polo. You get moved from there; then after when you win, you are happy. When you
lose, you can't practice, you know, it is fun. You go there and watch. You don't go there
and practice. There is no chance.  
 
Q. Did you have a different feeling for yourself and tennis players compared to other
people that don't get the glory than some of your countryman (Inaudible.)
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: I think, first of all, tennis shouldn't be in the Olympics for me. I
think this is so many guys that don't take it serious and I know it is a nice feeling. I
have two bronze medals from Barcelona. It was nice feeling when I step on that thing and I
get the medal. I feel very good. But Grand Slams are most important for the tennis
players. But actually when you go there, then I think you should give your best and you
should stay in the village. A lot of guys they go there and stay in the hotel. It is like
the same, like you play here, you go here and you stay in hotels. So there is no
difference when you go to Olympics. You don't have to stay in hotel. It doesn't matter
that it was terrible to stay there, but it is fun. 
 
Q. You stayed in the village?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: Yeah, I stayed 12 days. It was five square meters; two guys in the
room. Not good. But that is the Olympics. 
 
Q. You didn't go to win the Olympics; you went to see the Olympics; is that what you
are saying?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: I needed holidays. I had very tough first half of the season. I
didn't take any weeks off and I needed, so I said to myself I am going to practice after
Wimbledon and maybe I am going to crack somewhere here or in the end of the year or take
the holidays and try to concentrate on the U.S. Open and the end of the year. So I think I
did the right move; took some weeks off; went there. I tried. I was in the qualies of
doubles. Actually, we had the chance in the doubles, but we lost in the quarters, and I
watch other matches. I enjoyed it there. 
 
Q. Talk a little bit about the conditions today and how you paced yourself in that kind
of humidity?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: It is tough. It doesn't matter how you are fit. When the heat hits
you, I was very tired. It was actually good thing that I was a break up; then I could just
walk when he was serving hoping that I can always hold my serve, which I did. I mean, when
I broke him 3-2, 4-2, then I just -- I was just standing there when he was serving a
couple of games and holding my serve. But when you need to run here it is going to be
tough because it is really hot and last year I had trouble in the quarters with Enqvist,
third set, I just couldn't breathe, so it is going to be tough here -- Indianapolis and
here the same thing. 
 
Q. Do you have to pick your spots at all, what games to really exert yourself knowing
that you got another two sets?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: I mean, I have to play my game. It doesn't matter and it -- it is
nice when you are a break up then you can -- you don't have to run so much on his serve
and okay, I can hope that I can win my serve, but guys like Chang and the other guys, they
have to run for every point. I still can win a lot of free points on my serve. That is a
good thing, especially when I serve like I served today. 
 
Q. Does it take a lot out of you to serve like that as consistently --
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: It takes -- a lot of people think it is just you come there, you
throw the ball and hit an ace. It is not easy. You have to manage when you are tired, when
it is heat there, you have to manage to hit ace on 30-All, deuce, breakpoint, which I
managed today and it is not always easy to hit that. 
 
Q. (Inaudible.)
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: It is, but I came here; tried to do well, so it doesn't matter heat
or not. Nobody is going to ask you when you lose, you have to try to win no matter how hot
it is out there. 
 
Q. You said players like Chang have to run for every point. Who does this play to the
advantage of? What players will benefit from the conditions?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: I think the guys like Pete, he can blow you out in half an hour.
Andre, when he is playing good, he also can just hit the ball and you are out -- you can't
see the ball. Michael is a great player, but, you know, he is still -- he doesn't hit hard
like Andre hits, so he still has to run more. But he is always fit. He is everywhere. You
think that he is dead, but he is still running, left to right, you never know. Of course
Thomas likes to play here, he likes to make you dead. Left, right, until you die. 
 
Q. Do you think that changes the strategy when the weather is like this; do players
depart from their usual game more to where the (Inaudible.)
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: Depends. Sometimes for me when I know that I cannot run from the back
anymore I know I have to come in. I am hoping to hit ace. If it is not an ace, then, okay,
I say hit second serve hard then come in and some other -- guys just like when the other
guy is tired, he doesn't hit a winner he just makes you run, so you are even more tired
after. 
 
Q. Do you have the Open in the back of your mind this whole time?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: I concentrate on these tournaments and then in the Open last year I
twisted my ankle. The year before I played bad and I never made the second week of the
U.S. Open. So I made a goal for this week to try to make second week of the U.S. Open to
see how it is to play Monday of the second week. 
 
Q. Last year was particularly frustrating because you kind have had a breakthrough
results (Inaudible.) 
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: Yeah, I played good last year here Indy, L.A.; then I was leading
pretty easy in the U.S. Open and I twisted my ankle and it is frustrating, so it is going
to be tough for me mentally to -- first round especially is going to be tough at the U.S.
Open knowing that I lost a couple of times first round and I never reach second week. I
never played good there. So if I can pass a couple of rounds, first round there, it is
going to be easier for me. 
 
Q. Wimbledon you had some good results, but I guess you had to feel like maybe an
opportunity kind of passed by too the way the field was opening up?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: No, but it is Wimbledon. I didn't produce my game at the quarters. I
lost to Stoltenberg. I didn't play well. He played good and it doesn't matter who was in
the semis or in the finals, you have to play good. I think previous years I played better
and I had tougher opponents and I made the final twice, but this year, I just couldn't
make my game in the quarters. We were stopping -- I was hoping when we stopped the night
that I am going to come next day and play better, but nothing changed. 
 
Q. Is that something about you having to take a break and have fun at the Olympics?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: Yeah, I think that helped me. I mean, it was not easy to take a
break, you know, when you think, oh, I have a chance, but sometimes you have to forget
about everything and just relax and it is a tough sport. We don't have too many weeks off
and when the season finish, next season starts and it is just too many tournaments, too
much competition. Too many tough rounds. No more easy rounds. Everywhere, where you go,
first round comes the guy never heard in my life, like Wimbledon second round, and gives
me trouble, so no more easy rounds. Getting very tough. Tougher and tougher. So I think
everybody needs a break and nobody can play great all the year. 
 
Q. You used to keep a pretty hectic schedule, I mean, pretty heavy schedule --
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: I don't know what I wanted to make with the schedule, but I had tough
schedules and especially end of the year, I have tough schedule indoor, six tournaments,
so hopefully I can make it. 
 
Q. When you hit an ace, how important is the speed and how important is the placement?
 
 GORAN IVANISEVIC: Speed is not important. I am not going for the speed or anything. I
just know where I am going to serve and try to place it deep as possible and so that is it
because a lot of times the guys hit the serves so hard, but it is very easy to return this
very hard serve because you just block the ball and it is easier. When you hit more with a
slice, then the ball going away from you and it is tougher to return.  
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT