XXVI OLYMPIC GAMES
July 24, 1996
Goran Ivanisevic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Goran, that didn't look like the real you out there. What happened there?
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:   Nothing happened.  I just took 20 days off after Wimbledon, and I had two days practice arriving two days ago, so I don't think I didn't expect any better. 
 

Q. Did you want any better, though?  Did you come here thinking that?
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:   I wanted better, but it was not possible because with two days of practice here, I don't expect any better. 
 

Q. Were you not with the Croatian team in Mississippi? Did you not go with them there?
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:   No, no, no, I was in the island, you know, on the beach. 
 

Q. You have got a nice tan.
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:   Yeah, I know, everybody tells me that.  But I practiced without shirt, that is what I tell to everybody. 
 

Q. Why did you come so late?
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:   I just needed some time off because I had very tough first part of the season, and then I  was just losing my energy and concentration; French, Wimbledon, you know, two very important tournaments for me, especially Wimbledon.  I just -- I was missing a little extra energy to go forward, and I lost quarterfinals, so I decided that if I get prepared well for here, and then I am going to kill myself for summer season here, so I just took some two weeks off and came here and just gave it my best. It was not good enough, so..... 
 

Q. What did you think of his serve; was it bothering you the first set?
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:   I mean, he served good, but I mean, I was moving a little slower to pick his serve and to return it.  The balls are flying a lot here.  I don't know why, but just it is tough to control the ball. 
 

Q. Are you going to stay around?
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:   I have to play doubles tomorrow, and then I don't know, if I lose, then I don't know what to do.  I have ten days to go for Cincinnati, then I am in trouble.  But I hope I am going to win the doubles tomorrow. 
 

Q. Would it be fair to say that you weren't taking this very seriously then if you --
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:   No, I am taking. 
 

Q. If you were not prepared and you don't seem disappointed --
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:   No, I mean, I didn't take so seriously.  I came here to try to represent my country and give  my best.  I gave my best today; it was poor, but that was the best I can give at the moment.  And hopefully I can -- I was hoping to play doubles Friday, so I get one extra day practice to try to put my form a little better, but unfortunately playing tomorrow maybe on the half court I think I can do better, I can play better.  Plus we are playing against Bjorkman-Kulti, which are very tough players to beat.  So nothing to lose, just play and try to win. 
 

Q. There were no contributing factors today, like a couple of footfault calls that didn't bother you.
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:   Well, I mean, didn't bother me.  I didn't expected to I am going to win this match, so it didn't bother me so much. 
 

Q. Where did you go on your vacation?
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:   Home. 
 

Q. Islands?
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:   Rented a boat and I just was cruising around. 
 

Q. Off the coast of Split?
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:   Yeah. 
 

Q. Basically what you are saying is you felt it was more important for you to take some time off and rest and clear up your mind than it was to whip yourself into shape, perfect match shape to be here?
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:   That is right.  I think if I want  to do well 'til the end of the year, that was the only solution for me, to take the time off and prepare for this rest of the year.  Plus I have two medals in Barcelona, so I think so many other guys here in Croatian team who can win the medals. 
 

Q. What kind of disappointment was it, the start of the year, you had such a great run at all those titles and then the problem at Lipton, after that things started to slip away a bit.  What changed?
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:   I didn't change.  I had a bad luck.  I get neck problem, then I got sick a little bit, then I couldn't get prepared well for clay season.  And then I was, like, catching something instead of taking couple of weeks off and prepare for French.  But I just wanted to play every week, every week, thinking I am going to play better, but it was a mistake.  And then I just lost my energy at Wimbledon, I was not 100%.  I was there, but little things in the game, you know, made me lose in the quarterfinal. 
 

Q. So you don't think don't think this would be a good hard court preparation for the season?
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:   I mean, I still have ten days to prepare for the hard court season, plus I want to do this year well at the U.S. Open, which I didn't do previous year, so I have three tournaments to play before U.S. Open, and hopefully I can get well prepared for that. 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT