NEWSWEEK CHAMPIONS CUP
March 13, 1996
Goran Ivanisevic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 JOE LYNCH:  Goran is 25 and 1 since the Australian Open.

 Q.  Waiting a long time?

 GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Waiting six years.  Long time to wait.

 Q.  What was the difference today than all the other years?

 GORAN IVANISEVIC:  It is different because first I am very confident
at the moment. I have won a lot of matches and I came Monday,
so I didn't care too much, just went there and hit the ball and
everything went in.

 Q.  What have you been doing since you have been here?

 GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I played the doubles yesterday, and lot of
practice, and nothing much.  Today nothing special. Practiced
for 20 minutes and watched some movies and played some good tennis
this night.

 Q.  What movies?

 GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Actually I saw this Ace Ventura. Pretty funny.


 Q.  Was it a good movie?

 GORAN IVANISEVIC:  It was funny.  It was a pretty funny movie.
 This guy is very funny.

 Q.  Have you surprised or stunned yourself with the results
that you have had in the last three months starting in Munich?

 GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I think I surprised everybody. Everybody asked
me what is going on with me, when I am going to lose and it is
strange because last year they were asking me when I am going
to win something; now they are asking me when I am going to lose.
 See, with me, it is winning or losing.  I can't produce something
in between that.  So -- I don't know what is going on.  It is
just a nice feeling and I hope I can keep this as long as possible.


 Q.  Has Bob Brett said anything to you?

 GORAN IVANISEVIC:  No, we had a run yesterday at 6 o'clock in
the morning and we talked a little bit and..... Nothing interesting.


 Q.  So are the people any older here --

 GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I am not going to say.

 Q.  -- than previous years?

 GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I said it once.

 Q.  Maybe they all died off from the last time?

 GORAN IVANISEVIC:  The fresh one.  They make the fresh -- no,
actually, it is a nice place.  I always say it is  bad, but I
always come back here.  Especially after two indoor tournaments,
here it is very nice.  It is nice.  It is getting -- I mean, actually
yesterday it was so many people. Today was bad weather, but it
is getting better and I enjoy it more and more here.

 Q.  Obviously you will be a factor at Wimbledon again this
year.  Did you think that you can be a factor at the French as
well?

 GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Why not, if I am playing like this, and if
I believe I can do it keep my mind, everything is possible.

 Q.  Do you feel good on the clay court?

 GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Yeah, I had a great season last year on clay
court beating Bruguera, Berasategui a lot of guys, and I play
bad French.  I lost first round, but I have a good chance.  I
grew up on clay and maybe it is one of the best surface I play.


 Q.  What do you think of this tournament having the men and
women together?  Does it have any affect on you or your practice?

 GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Actually I liked it before when they finished
on Sunday and we come on Monday.  I don't have anything against
women, but just I don't like to see them too much around, you
know.  It is better for my mind, especially I have to see them
in Key Biscayne and it is too close, but  actually after Hopman
Cup I changed my mind a lot about women's tennis especially after
Hingis and Rubin they had returned my serve like a piece of cake
and then I really -- it is unbelievable.  I couldn't hit an ace.
 They were returning better than guys, my serve, so I was pretty
impressive.

 JOE LYNCH:  Anything else?

 Q.  Congratulations.

 GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Thanks.

 End of FastScripts........            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT