RCA CHAMPIONSHIPS
August 19, 1995
Goran Ivanisevic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Goran, what is it about Enqvist that causes you so much trouble?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I think when he -- it is important, he is playing better points than me. Returning better, serving better, that is it.


Q.  You lost the first set, but you lost the match anyway?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  It doesn't matter.  I served very badly all the match the match was not so bad.  Both play pretty bad, but in the end when it was deciding who was going to win he played better.  The game when I lost my serve, I didn't put one first serve in, three easy mistakes.  It was not that he made something unbelievable.  I mean, returns, I made 3 unforced errors in two seconds; one doublefault and that is it.  I mean, that is a different level than Berasategui and all these guys that I beat.  If I am going to beat those guys, I have to play much better and probably I am not able to produce my best tennis or play better than this when I need --


Q.  When you lost your serve in the third, it is because a question of concentration or something? 

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I don't know a question of just -- question was happening the last four weeks when I played him.  Every time the same thing.  Every time when it is tight, I lose my serve.  But I didn't lose. He didn't win my serve.  I lost my serve.  Because I gave him all points.  One first serve -- every time when he has to with a big game, he puts every first serve in.  That is the difference.


Q.  And the level of this match compared with the other match?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I think it was the worst match out of all three that we played.  It was not easy when you play somebody four weeks in a row.  It is pretty tight, you know, I mean, we know each other very good now.  We are playing, and it just depends on your mind.  I play badly first set.  He played bad the second set.  I didn't do anything the second set.  I just put more first serves in and he gave me a couple of easy points.  Then third set, he just put ball again in the play and that was enough probably.


Q.  If you don't draw Thomas again, you have to feel better than you have going in the Open for quite a few years?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I mean, I feel good, but  if I want to do well, I have to play better against those guys because these guys are playing good tennis, and if I want to do very well, I can't play the tennis what I play yesterday.  Can't happen in my game, I don't put one first serve.  Because they take a chance and you are gone, you are history; then they don't give you anymore chances; especially like Thomas, he is a great player,  and he takes the first chance he gets; he get it and then he just keep rolling and then he plays just too good.


Q.  Are you going to practice with him before the Open?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I don't know, I hope I don't see him before.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT