RCA CHAMPIONSHIPS
August 17, 1995
Goran Ivanisevic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  How was it weatherwise today as compared to yesterday?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Very nice.  Pretty cool and -- but more humid than yesterday.  Not so hot.  I mean, very nice to play.


Q.  Were you happy with your match going three sets?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Yeah, I mean, I played him last week in Cincinnati and I won in two sets, but there, he was missing a lot of balls.  Today he played very good.  I mean, he put a lot of percentage of first serves; especially in the second set, I didn't have chance to break.  I was always 30-All and then he put two first serves in and he was attacking my second serve very good.  He played very good  he deserved that set and I was -- I mean, I played very good tennis when I needed and it was a good match, but....


Q.  Not the second set, though? 

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Yeah, I mean, second set, I played okay, but he played very good tennis.


Q.  You'd like to get off there as fast as you can with the heat?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Yeah, he played very good.  Whatever I did, he played better.


Q.  Talk maybe about fighting through that and got down a little bit early in that first game third set, but seemed like you fought through and took -- you know, were able to hold off at breakpoints?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Yeah, first game of the third set I broke my shoe for the fourth time this summer.  I mean, every tournament I am breaking a shoe and it is pretty bad because I mean, it is very important 15-30 and what if I don't have anymore shoes?  That is history.  Those shoes are pretty new and I was a little upset, but good thinking, I went yesterday and bought the shoes and I managed to win the match.  But I mean,, but I was pretty cool in my head and I was ready to fight all over today.


Q.  My memory is that last year at this point you were pretty shaky from a confidence standpoint on hardcourts.  Is that right?  Has that changed a lot?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Yeah, I think I am playing  much better, much -- sometimes I even -- I don't know even what I am doing there, but I am still playing much better tennis; serving better and from the back, I am much more confident than before.  Before I was just hitting the ball anywhere, everywhere, no control.  Now I can hit 50 balls on the court if I have to.


Q.  You played a pretty quick pace.  Is that because you are comfortable with it or maybe because your opponent isn't comfortable with it?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  No, I mean, I play like that all my life.  So if the guy stop me, I stop.  But if the guy accepts the way I play, then I just play like that.


Q.  Is there any aspect of your game that you feel you will have to improve the rest of the way to win the whole thing?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  No, I think everything is working fine.  I am happy the way I played.


Q.  So it would take a superior effort -- really superior effort on the part of somebody to beat you the way you are feeling now?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  They can beat me or they just put Enqvist on the other side of the set; then it is going to be tough for me, you know. 

GREG SHARKO:  Anything else for Goran.  Thanks.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT