RCA CHAMPIONSHIPS
August 16, 1995
Goran Ivanisevic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Seemed pretty determined to take care of business put him away in the second set after you got through it?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Yeah, start pretty slowly. I mean, first four games I didn't win a point and then first point when I won was 4-All.  He served and I won a game and it was pretty hot.  It was tough to play.  A lot of quick points.  Didn't play too much rallies because it is impossible, I mean, this is too much, so I just went for a couple of big serves on the second serve and especially now the matchpoint I was pretty tired and I just took the risk, so -- but I am happy the way I played.  The conditions are very tough.  The balls are flying and it is very hot, but I hit the ball okay.


Q.  How hot is it compared to other places like Australia?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Montreal was not so hot. L.A. was great.  Cincinnati was unbelievable, I mean, when I played Enqvist in the third set, just I couldn't move anymore; especially the game 4-3 when he broke me in the third I was gone.  I mean, it is tough, and  those heat gets to you.  It is tough to move.  You just hope that the other guy is more tired than you and try to stay and hit some aces or get free points.  But it is very hot here, I mean, I think U.S. Open is not hot like here.  U.S. Open is very humid and I think it is going to be nice.  I mean, I came here so I don't want to complain too much.  I have to take the heat if I want to play good here.


Q.  You are hoping maybe now to maybe to draw some night duty after get away from the heat?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I mean, it doesn't matter night or day.  Like I say, came here to try to win. Doesn't matter where they put me.  I have to win.  That is my priority to win.  If they put me at 12 o'clock, I have to fight with the heat.  It is nicer to play about 4-5 o'clock, but this year, where they put me I have to play.


Q.  Talk a little bit about about Cincinnati, I know you -- did the heat and that add a little bit to the frustration you had at the end of the match there?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Yeah, I had a little frustration beginning of the second set against Enqvist in Cincinnati.  It was my mistake a couple of bad calls; then already there I was starting to get tired. When I am tired, I losing my control easier than when I  am not -- when I am fresher, so was very tired and losing my control very easy.  But it is another tournament.  I mean, I have to look for this one and I know that I hit the ball very good, better than any year coming to the U.S. Open, and hopefully I can do a little bit better this year.


Q.  Do you think there is anything you can do about working towards controlling yourself or is that just you?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I think I control myself pretty okay, but when it is a big heat and when I am very tired, then it is tougher to control, my emotions, I mean, I get frustrated to the crowd, to every call, but because I am mad on myself, I am very tired and then everything is bothering me.  Wrong ball -- ballboy giving me the wrong ball, everything, then there is no way I can beat anything.  It is too much fighting with everybody around.


Q.  Goran, you were just saying you are hitting the ball really well and feeling pretty good with the way things are going with your tennis.  When was the last time you felt that way?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Last time in the states, never.  I mean, maybe I am going to lose again first round in U.S. Open, but I know that I hit the ball  better than ever in this particular time of the year and I am happy about it.  I mean, I can play -- I mean, this year, hopefully I can prove that I can play on this court, because there is no reason why I have bad results on these courts.


Q.  You have talked before about some of the temptations here of playing hoops and all and things like that.  Has it almost been too hot to enjoy any of those?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Yeah, it is tough.  This tournament is taking some unbelievable good care of the players and you have so much things to do here and then you are forgetting why you came here for, and I mean, but it is first priority is tennis; then all the other things, but it is a great tournament; just would be nice if it was a little cooler; it would be even a better tournament.


Q.  How is your basketball?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I didn't play it, but hopefully I can play.  It is okay.  Still have to improve a lot.


Q.  Have you visited the music room at all into that?

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Music room, no.  No.  I like the game room much better than music. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT