VOLVO MONTE-CARLO OPEN
April 29, 1995
Goran Ivanisevic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Goran, you lost eight tiebreaks out of nine  against Boris Becker.  Does it mean something to you or  it is just bad luck or --  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC: No, if I play like this, it  is not bad luck.  It is bad for me; not bad for him.   
 

Q.  When you were serving at 6-5 in the first  set, you put in only one first serve out of six.  Is  that also something that shows emotion or is it  coincidence?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC: Not coincidence.  It is  that is what I was doing all day today.  I mean, every  time when I needed, I didn't put the first serve and  when you come 6-5 and you serve for the set, I mean,  you serve like that, it is bad.  I mean, it is bad,  everything was bad.   
 

Q.  But you didn't play bad.  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC: I played very bad.  He  played very bad and match was very bad and only he won  because he served better and I gave him the match.  Actually, he didn't do anything.  I just gave him  present.   
 

Q.  What was the problem with the wrist today,  you had problems on your serve?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC: In the beginning, yeah,  when I hit the second serve, but then afterwards it was  okay.   
 

Q.  No pain?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC: No pain.   
 

Q.  The fact you didn't play very safe the other  matches and that you played very safe this match or did  you --  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC: I didn't do anything this  match.  The other matches I didn't play safe; at least,  I hit the winners.  Today I didn't do anything.  I just  put the ball back and wait for his mistake.  He did  sometimes -- he was playing smart -- slice, topspin, he  comes in; if I pass him, okay, usually I don't pass him  and the only good thing that he did he was serving;  nothing else; just put more balls in the court than me  and I didn't do anything; I could still have tried to  at least do something, but I didn't do anything.  And I  could win.   
 

Q.  Do you think the first set was probably  decisive, if you had won that?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC: I mean, I had chances every  game I had a breakpoint and he didn't want -- two  points, when he broke me; then tiebreaker I had a  couple of set points and he played one lucky volley  and -- but then again I was -- had more chances than  him, but just didn't do anything.  Even when I won the  second set, third set I started the same; just putting  the ball back and every time when he had a chance he  came in and when I had a chance I didn't do anything.   
 

Q.  Do you know the reason why if you didn't do  anything?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC: No, I don't know.  Same  thing was in Rome last year, also "present" match you  just serve better and that is it.  From the back he  doesn't do anything.  Just puts the ball in and he put  the ball in and when you are short he comes in and when  it is short for me, I don't do anything.  It is tough  to pass him because he is good at the net and you have  to pass him on the breakpoint, the big point; it is  tough to do every time.   
 

Q.  Is it because it is Boris Becker that you  don't try too much?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC: I don't know.  It doesn't  matter.  I don't know why.  Just -- no idea.   
 

Q.  Maybe you should have an idea for the next  match.  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC: Maybe.  I don't know if you  play fast court than it is easier for me because then I  come in; then I know I have to come in, but on this  court I don't know why I don't come in, I just -- I  don't know.   
 

Q.  Did you discuss with Bob Brett a little bit?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC: Yeah, but it is nothing to  discuss.   
 

Q.  Strategy?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC: What strategy, if I play  like this, this is no strategy.  This is bad, very  bad.   
 

Q.  Are you going to take some rest this week,  not play maybe for a few days if your wrist --  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC: I don't know.  Same thing.  Rest or not, not going to help anything.   
 

Q.  What is your next tournament Hamburg?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC: Yes.     
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT