VOLVO MONTE-CARLO OPEN
April 26, 1995
Goran Ivanisevic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Goran, you seemed maybe a little bit  frustrated in the first two sets when it was not  working as well as you wanted in the last set, even  when you had a tough moment, and then you looked very  quiet and calm and it was okay for you; isn't that  right?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC: Yeah. But first two sets, I  didn't play very good.  I gave him a lot of free  points.  I knew he is a tough player and he is not  going to give me a lot of free points, but I have --  two, three times we really -- I mean, I have to hit a  winner.  I was missing a lot of balls.  I mean, my  serve was not working.  Even when I won the second set,  I didn't do anything too much.  I just -- maybe I hit a  couple of more winners, but I was missing a lot 'til  4-1 in the third.  I mean, but before 4-1, I had --  first game I have six game points, breakpoints, and  then he broke me.  Then I have another one to break  back and then every game I have something.  But then I  start to play much better.  Then I make him run more  and I was hitting more winners.   
 

Q.  But at this moment when you had these  breakpoints on the first game, that third set and then  he broke you; it was 3-Love and then 4-1; you kept your  concentration perfectly.  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC: Yeah, I was -- I said to  myself -- I mean, I had so many chances and I think I  have to make one because every time I had a breakpoint  he play unbelievable.  I mean, I couldn't do anything.  When I say -- I just stay there; keep my serve because  he is not a big server and every time when I play on  his serve, it is deuce, I mean, so many tough points,  so I said one time I am going to break him.  So I was  fighting there, kept in my mind; then I broke him.  Then when I broke him first time, I knew I am going to  win.   
 

Q.  How was your knee today?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC: My knee was good.  It was  not hurting and it was good.   
 

Q.  And the conditions, because it was cold and a  little bit windy; it was not too tough for you?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC: Yeah, but this year, I  don't know why, but they put so much clay on the courts  and the courts are very, very slow.  I don't know what  for, but it is very slow conditions today and very  tough to play.  I won, so it doesn't matter.   
 

Q.  What do you think about the last 12 points?  You won the last 12 points.  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC: Last 12 points I played  very good; especially the last game, I think that was  the only game in the the whole match I served good.  I  served three and a half aces and I mean, finally I knew  I had to serve one game good, so I was waiting for the  last game.   
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT