COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
December 10, 1994
Goran Ivanisevic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Goran, what is your immediate reaction after  coming so close and hitting all those aces, and here  you are?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I mean, reaction -- I  mean, I played a good match.  I gave everything.  I  tried everything, and then again, I lost.  But I mean,  maybe -- only mistake what I did I let him too easy  sets -- I gave him two easy sets, second and third.  After winning the first set, I stopped, I  don't know what for; why; what was the reason, but I  just stopped.  That was -- then it is tough.  Then I  have to put all my energy back because he is No. 1.  He  is the best player in the world, and he is two sets to  one up; then I have to put all my energy back to come  back into the match, what I did.  Then again, you have  to fight, fight, fifth set always a little advantage.  He was serving good, and he starts to return better.   
 

Q.  Comparing the two other matches you played  against him this year, this one is very encouraging;  don't you think so?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I think, that was maybe  the best match I played this year.  It was very  exciting.  It was a good match.  I mean, that is a  little luck when you don't have a tiebreak in the  fifth, 6-All, 7-7, you -- just luck; you have to wait   -- one backhand, but it is easier for him because he  is always serving on 7-7, 6-6 and it is less pressure  and he is going for the big second serves.  And every  time when I serve, when I come, those guys, they are  going around with these waves.  Then I have to wait for  five minutes; they are "waving" like idiots around and  then, you know, then you lose a little concentration.  You have to be very focused because when you are 7-6,  8-7 down against Sampras in the fifth, you have to be  100% there.  If you are a little bit out, you are gone  because he is waiting there.  You make two mistakes;  you are gone.   
 

Q.  The reason why two or three last games on  your serve, you didn't serve that many first serves.  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  It is not easy.  I am  always down first and if I don't put the first serve,  he is waiting in the second, and then why I have to  risk a big second serve, I have to do something.  But I  was serving a lot of good second serves.  I stayed back   -- back and from the back I was playing better than  him, I think.  It is tough.  I mean, it is pressure.  No tiebreak.  One has to go down.  I mean, one has to  lose concentration a little bit, and that last game, I  mean, that ball was -- I don't know.  I mean, he called  good; like he called wide, and then at Love-40, I  missed easy volley, but what can I do.   
 

Q.  You would have rather played a tiebreaker in  the fifth?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  When you are serving like  Pete and me in the fifth set, it is better to play  tiebreak.  But it is okay, like this.  It is lottery.  Tiebreak is lottery like this also because one has to   -- you cannot go forever, you know.  One, because it  is a big service.  I had a chance at 8-All, 30-All.  He  hit a second serve, but he was always serving very  deep, because he was going for it.  And if I don't hit  it clean, then it is no way, I mean, then he hits a  good volley and no chance for me.   
 

Q.  Goran, do you think Pete now has a big mental  edge over you?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Pete is No. 1 player in  the world, you know, and every time we play good  matches, and sure he is tough.  You give him a little  chance, he is taking it.  Then it is tough to get back,  you know.  He is mentally very strong, he is No. 1 and  he has for sure proved that he is best player in the  world at this time.  He is mentally better than maybe  everybody in the game now.  He is really good.  He is  hitting some big shots when he needs and I mean, he is  the best player.   
 

Q.  What are you going to do between now and  Australian Open?  How will you prepare?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I am going skiing a little  bit, if I can ski, no snow, but -- and then I prepare a  little bit, eight days I go home and then I go to  Australia to practice for two weeks.   
 

Q.  At the moment you lose a big match like this,  wouldn't you like to cry when you feel disappointed or,  you know, to let your emotions go?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I mean, I would like to do  a lot of things, but not allowed, you know, but what  can I do.  I mean, this is -- even if it is not for the  points, this tournament is a big tournament and I came  here to win, to hope to win and it is a big  disappointment for me, but in the end, I lost to the  No. 1 player in the world 10-8 in the fifth and that is   -- he is No. 1 and he has to beat me 10-8 to beat me,  and yeah, I am disappointed, but I think I finished the  year in a good way.  I had a great year and I hope next  year I can do a little better.   
 

Q.  A lot of times today you obviously really  fought to stay in control of your temper.  You really  didn't explode.  You kept control.  Does that have an  effect on your game?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  No, I try to control  because if I explode completely then it could be  dangerous, but there was some chances I could explode  completely, but then I said, okay, I am not going to,  safer for me and everybody there.  I mean, it is  tough.  It is tough in the fifth set, the guy is making  such bad calls, you know, then it is tough to stay in  control.  I mean, like 5-4, he had that first two  matchpoints, 6-5, I hit ace on 15-40, and the let-guy  calling "let."  That was not even close to be a let and  what can you do to him, I mean ...   
 

Q.  Does it affect your game if you have to  swallow --  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  It is not -- I mean, then  next point I tried to scream or yell just to get out  everything, you know, but it doesn't affect anything.   
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT