COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
December 6, 1994
Goran Ivanisevic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  What do you think about your match today?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I think I played okay.  I  didn't play much for two weeks; plus Frankfurt, where I  didn't win one match, so I lost a little confidence,  but I think I played very good today.  I returned  great, and I think I served a little better.  It was  not great, but okay, it was still some good aces.  I  mean, some good serves when I needed, and generally, I  think I played good tennis.   
 

Q.  How did you prepare for this tournament?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I mean, I went home, and I  played one exhibition match with Stich and split.  I  was working more on my physical running, gym, last week  I went to Germany to practice, and I came here Thursday  to practice with Bob, so I think I am playing okay.   
 

Q.  Did you watch the Becker match today?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Yeah, I watched a little  bit.  It was not a great match.   
 

Q.  That is what Boris said.  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  But he won, I mean, who  cares.  That is what counts, to win.   
 

Q.  So what do you think?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  It's going to be maybe --  it is not going to be the best match in the world  Thursday, but it is going to be, for sure, an exciting  match.  And I know the whole crowd is going to be on  his side, but it is going to be fun.  I mean, we had a  lot of great matches, especially this year, and we know  each other very good, and I think it is going to be a  good match.  I mean, interesting match.   
 

Q.  Goran, even if you can play this tournament,  are you bothered by the fact that the ATP Tour gave you  the suspension?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I mean, it is not going to  be easy coming to Australian Open without playing a  match before that, but ATP -- you can't fight ATP.  Okay, I did my mistake, which I didn't behave good this  year -- I mean, I didn't go to press conferences, but  they suspend me for Hopman Cup which is, I think,  pretty stupid decision, because Hopman Cup has nothing  to do with ATP, but, you know, you can't fight that and  it is good that I can play this event, because it is  not in ATP and this is a great event and I am happy  that I am allowed to play here.   
 

Q.  So what are you going to do between this  tournament and the Australian Open, how are you going  to prepare it?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I am going to Australia  28th.  I go to Paris to play charity exhibition.  I  stay there two weeks practicing.   
 

Q.  What do you think about the surface, is it  still as fast as last year?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  This one?   
 

Q.  Yes.  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  No, I think -- it is --  but it is not so fast like previous years, but it is a  little bit attitude here in Munich and the balls are  flying a little bit more, but I think it is good  surface.  You can serve and volley.  You can play  back.  It is good surface to play.   
 

Q.  Any special tactics against Becker?  
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  No tactics.  I just go  there and hit the ball as hard as I can try to win.   
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT