ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 16, 1994
Goran Ivanisevic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Goran, when you had a Love-40 lead in the  second set, close to tying it, did you think you were  going to pull it off?  

GORAN IVANISEVIC: I was hoping, but he hit  every first serve in and it is tough.  I mean, I had  perfect return because with these balls, which are the  worst that I ever played in my life, you have to hit  like crazy.  You cannot play dropshots or anything.  This is just a ball to hit.  So you have to hit  perfect, otherwise the ball doesn't go anywhere.  So,  you have to hit perfect to do something with these  balls.  But you just -- he served pretty good serves  and I couldn't do anything.  


Q.  The reason he has so much trouble with the  returns with the balls --  

GORAN IVANISEVIC: It is tough to return,  especially with the second serve.  It is tough to serve  and volley all the time because you have to hit perfect second serves, and you have to risk a lot because  second serves stays nice with these balls, it doesn't  go anywhere.  Then you just hit like crazy and it  doesn't go anywhere again.  So it is pretty -- I don't  know why they play with these balls.  It is the second  time this year we are playing with these balls; Paris  and here.  But that is ATP, they do whatever they want  to.  


Q.  Still, it didn't look like you were yourself  today on the court.  You looked uncomfortable.  

GORAN IVANISEVIC: It is tough.  I had a match  yesterday which is -- I was really flat today because,  you know, when you lose 7-6 in the third, you had your  chances.  It is not physically.  It is mentally, I was  a little empty, and first of all, we shouldn't play  today this match because I think today should be Pete  against Stefan, but again, ATP -- it is again ATP doing  whatever they want, so you cannot beat it.  You cannot  beat the system.  It is like communism, they just --  (laughter) -- that is it.  But you can't cry now.  I was flat today, completely.  I mean, I was  there, but not there.  I mean, mentally it is tough  because yesterday, that match, if I would win and play  today's match easier because I won 7-6, it gives me  confidence, but that match hurt me a lot yesterday, and  is tough to come up today.  It is not like today I  played against some guy who is ranked 200 in the  world.  It is another guy who is ranked No. 8, Stefan,  so it is not that I can take it easy.  So it is -- that  is a tough thing.  


Q.  Is the system so bad, you think?  

GORAN IVANISEVIC: I don't know why they  didn't play Pete and Stefan today.  I really, I don't  know why.  Everybody who ask me they couldn't believe  that I play today against Stefan, so, but, you know,  you can't -- I don't know, you can't fight it.  


Q.  Did you get an explanation from anybody about  why?  

GORAN IVANISEVIC: You can't have  explanation.  You just have to go and play.  


Q.  How do you see your chances now?  

GORAN IVANISEVIC: I have another match and  Friday I go and I play I am going to try to beat Pete  if it is possible.  I don't want to -- I mean, I have  still little chances.  It can be everything -- it can  be a little mixed up situation, but I have one more  match; I want to finish this year in a good way.  I  want to give my best match on Friday.  If I win, I  win.  If I don't, what can I do?  So I want to finish the year in a good way  because I did good this year.  I fight good this year  and I did a lot of good things this year.  I don't want  to blow it.  I mean, I didn't win these two matches,  but I won more and I want to be happy when I leave  Frankfurt.  


Q.  Goran, Edberg's volleys were so crisp and  yours just lacked zip.  Were you intimidated?  

GORAN IVANISEVIC: Edberg is maybe the best  volleyer of the game and I know I have to -- every time  I play him I know I have to return great because he has   -- especially his backhand volley, he is never missing  the volley, so you always have to play unbelievable  returns so he misses the volley.  So I know that from  the beginning that I have to play good tennis, good  returns to make his volley -- to make him miss the  volleys, but mine, I didn't make so many volleys, also  yesterday, I mean, I was missing a lot of volleys.  They were not going like I wanted to go.  Like they  were pretty slow, so he had time to pass me pretty  easy.  


Q.  If Berasategui had not played today because  he was hurt, they were supposed to put Stich in his  place and he would have played for the points and  everything.  What do you think about that?  Do you  think it is fair to put a new player in the game?  

GORAN IVANISEVIC: Why not?  Oh, he is nice,  so if he had a chance to play and qualify, why not.  But he didn't have a chance, Berasategui went to the  court and played.  


Q.  Did you follow the Becker/Sampras match a bit  on TV?  

GORAN IVANISEVIC: Yeah, I saw it a little  bit.  Boris played very good, played much better than  yesterday, which is normal, you know, because it is the  same -- because he won 7-6, gave him confidence.  He  was very good, you know, very confident; all the crowd  with him, you know. And it is opposite with me today.  I was pretty flat, mentally very flat, and it is tough  to -- it is tough to push, you know, and Stefan was  playing very good.  


Q.  Are you writing yourself off for this  tournament or --  

GORAN IVANISEVIC: No, I have one more match  to play and --  


Q.  How optimistic are you really?  

GORAN IVANISEVIC: I am always optimistic.  I  want to win that match.  It doesn't matter if I don't  have any chance, I am going to try.  I am going to go  on the the court to win that match, not to just play  that match.  So, Friday I am going to go on the court  and try to win; try to play my good tennis and we see  what is going to happen.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT