ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 15, 1994
Goran Ivanisevic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Do you think you lost this match about the  volley?  

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  It is not because the volley.  I mean, I had  my chances.  I didn't make it.  Every time on big  points I didn't make them.  When I play him, I don't  know what happened.  He was playing better on big  points, that is it.  


Q.  You had your chances to lose one or two  points.  How frustrating is that (inaudible)?  

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  It is pretty bad because every time when it  is a match with him, a tiebreak, I am losing and the  second time in two years I am losing the same match  against him here.  I mean, I had five first points in  the tiebreaker, I mean, to be 5-0, I had five easy  balls to put -- to win a point, but all easy mistakes,  I mean, two passing shot, one volley for me, I mean,  and those things if you give the player like him, you  don't have a chance.  Then 5-3, put me back 5-4 and  then 5-All another doublefault.  I thought I could have  saved serving and I did a doublefault.  But I had too  many chances and I didn't do anything, so it is no way  against him that I am going to win like that.  


Q.  Did you feel as if you were playing the whole  crowd as well as Boris.  

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I don't care about crowd.  They can scream  even harder, you know, I mean, it is better for him,  but I don't care; I had to win this match today; I had  chances in the tiebreak.  Doesn't matter crowd or not,  I had my chances; I didn't do it.  


Q.  Did the match two years ago go through your  mind when you were playing the tiebreak?  

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Didn't go through my mind at all, but it is  frustrating, I mean, it is all these tight matches I  lose against him here, but I mean, what can you do; it  is another two matches I won one set, and it can be  helpful for the next two matches.  I mean, it is not  over yet.  


Q.  Does this feel like a round robin match to  you or it seemed like more?  

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I mean, it is nice to beat him; doesn't  matter -- especially here, you know, because two years  ago I had bad experience and now this match, I wanted  to win.  I mean, I don't like to lose to anybody, so I  wanted to win, and I couldn't do it again.  


Q.  Do you think it more difficult to beat Boris  here in Frankfurt in this atmosphere crowd behind him?  

GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Yeah, but he didn't play so well today.  I  mean, he was -- I was pretty bad match, anyway, and he  was nervous; I was nervous, a lot of mistakes and then  in the end, you know, he was better.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT