VOLVO MONTE-CARLO OPEN
April 20, 1994
Goran Ivanisevic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  So far so good, Goran?
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Yeah.  Why not?  It doesn't matter.  I mean, I won the match, so that is what is important. 
 

Q.  How well do you think you played?
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I told you, I didn't play so good.  Bob told me that I played better than first round, that I hit ball much cleaner than first round.  I don't know; I mean, I didn't feel that I am playing better than first round, but he said I played better than first round. So probably I played better than first round. 
 

Q.  You weren't happy with your serve in the first round?
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Yeah, today I served much better.  I serve -- I missed -- I served to his body, so he didn't have any chance, but so I probably - I played good when he said I played good.  Maybe I should come more to the net, but it is okay. 
 

Q.  Do you see, Goran, when it comes to the French Open this year, do you think we have to look at sort of Courier, Bruguera; can you see any other people sort of maybe coming in with a chance --
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  There is a lot of people. 
 

Q.  -- who don't get talked about?
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  A lot of Spanish guys that are playing very good tennis.  Sampras also is not out.  Stich.  Chang. So it is a lot of people who can -- I think this year is going to be much more open, Roland Garros, than previous years, because I think two years ago Courier was dominating on the French Open.  I mean, he lost one set, I mean, whole French Open; that is too good.  I think this year it is going to be very interesting French Open.  I had think a lot of guys can win it, and I think who is going to win is going to sweat a lot to win this year. 
 

Q.  Goran, I saw you watching the Agassi match last night.  Were you surprised he lost, and do you think he can still be a contender at Roland Garros?
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  You never know with him.  I bet with my mother that he is going to win, and then he lost.  But you never know with him.  I think he is much serious. I saw him practicing before the match.  I never saw him practicing before in my life before the match. Yesterday he was just two minutes before the match he was there on the practice court and -- but he was killing the guy 6-1.  Then I left, and he lost the match.  So I don't know, I mean, but -- I think he is always going to be dangerous.  He is returning great. He is always tough guy to beat; especially in the French.  It is best of five.  You have to win three sets against him, so it is not easy.  So I think he is also one of the not favored, but he is also one of the guys who can win the French. 
 

Q.  What do you have to do to win the French, Goran?
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I have to win seven matches. 
 

Q.  But what do you have to do that you have not done before to win the seven matches?  Where do you think you are falling down?
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I think, I mean, like two years ago when I lost to Courier, I mean, I had the chance.  I mean, 2-1 sets for him, then I had 4-1; then when I am up against  those guys I think I have to push one more step.  I am sort of like, okay, okay, I won a set or I won two sets; maybe that is enough.  But then I start to get loose a little bit, instead of keep going, keep going. I think -- I think I am ready, but-- I don't know if--.  I am fit enough, so I can stay with anybody. I can run from the back.  I think I have to push.  It is not easy five sets, especially against top guys who are all clay court players, but I think if you want to win I have to beat somebody good, and against those guys you have to believe that you can win from the first point and try to stay with them.  It doesn't matter if they won already French or not.  You just have to believe you can do it and try to keep your mind, because it is tough for two weeks; sufficient to have a lot of energy; a little bit luck.  Luck is always important to win a Grand Slam. 
 

Q.  Goran, do you think the way the results have gone on in the early events on clay so far this year suggests there could be even more good challenge in Paris, or should we wait for this week, and probably Rome, and then reassess it after that?
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  No, I think it is going to be good Roland Garros this year.  I think a lot of guys, they can make some upsets and things, so I think it is going to be very interesting.  I cannot put one guy with like this guy is going to win; this guy is most favorite.  I don't think this year is the guy who is most favorite to win the French.  I don't think even Bruguera or Courier, they are not 100%.  Like before, you say, okay, Courier is most favorite guy; he is going to win.  I don't think that there is one guy this year. 
 

Q.  You bet with your mother, so you obviously like a gamble.  Can you give us one name that might be a real good outsiders this year to surprise people?
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Berasategui, I mean, he is playing -- he is running like machine, but I don't know how good he is when pressure comes.  To win a Grand Slam you have to-- that is also when you have to beat the pressure also. When you see that you have chance and then you get scared.  I mean, Sampras also is not out of the question because he is very confident this year and he won six tournaments and I think he is-- also has a good game to win it. 
 

Q.  He is not an outsider?
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Yeah, I know, but he never did well on this. Also maybe -- I don't know -- Costa.  But -- I don't know how those guys, when they come at this moment, they have to beat somebody good on the Grand Slam and how they can keep the pressure -- 
 

Q.  How much do you like it to play on clay?
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Yeah, I like.  I started to play my tennis on clay, so I love it.  It is nice.  You have to run a little bit more, but it is okay. 
 

Q.  Do you love it less than a few years ago now --
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  No, I always like to play on clay.  It is fun. 
 

Q.  Do you think that you need to change this powerful serve that you have and adapt it more to clay, put more spin on it and less power, so that you can conserve your energy for sort of exchanges against these Spanish players also?
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Depends who I play.  I like to serve the way I am serving now.  I don't like to change too much.  Then I got confused.  Then I don't know which serve I am going to hit.  Like this, I know.  I am thinking before I hit the serve what serve I am going to hit and where I am going to hit, so I like the way I am serving now, so I don't think I have to change something. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT