VOLVO MONTE-CARLO OPEN
April 18, 1994
Goran Ivanisevic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Goran, you live dangerously these days?
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Why?  It is fun, more fun to live dangerous. 
 

Q.  What happened at the end of the second set when you should have closed the match out?
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I mean, all the match, I mean, I always give him like Love-30, Love-40 on my serve, and then it is tough to come back.  I mean, you can do it for three, four times, but not every time.  That is what happened at 5-4.  I had serve for the match Love-40.  I won two points, and then I went for the-- 30-40 I went for the forehand and I missed it, and that happened, and then I lost the tiebreak 7-0. I mean, I don't know how, but around then, third set, I start to hit them more.  I was missing more, but I was hitting more, and then after 4-1 I was -- coming back.  At 5-4 I told them maybe it is going to be like second set when I -- maybe he is going to be a little bit tight and I am going to win that game, and that is what happened.  Then at 5-All, again, I had Love-40 down. Again, I won the game, but, I mean, I didn't serve so great today and I gave him too much advantage on my serve, those Love-40, Love-30.  I mean, I don't remember maybe one game I won maybe when I was up 40-15, 40-30. 
 

Q.  When he had all these matchpoints, did you think it was finished?  What went through your head?
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I just thought after we do something, if I put too many balls in the court I am going to miss - I was thinking it - so I have to risk, first short ball doesn't matter what I am - I just got to hit -- come in and just hit.  I came, I mean, twice, and he missed -- I hit one volley, I hit one smash -- I don't know, but I played a little bit risky on matchpoint, but I think that is what you have to do.  It is 50/50 chance, so you take the risk, and you can lose or win, but I won this time, so maybe next time I am going to lose, but who knows.  You don't take the risk, you don't know. Then after, maybe you are thinking maybe I didn't take the risk, but now I know I took the risk and I won the match. 
 

Q.  Goran, having got yourself into a problem so often, getting out of it the way you did, is that particularly pleasing?
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Never I have such problem with my serve in my life.  It is pretty slow today and he is a good player, but I mean, almost every second game on my serve, I am Love-40 down or 15-40, then it is tough I have to come up with some good shots or something.  It is not easy, I mean, sometime I was pretty lucky, I mean, he helped me sometimes.  He missed some easy shots and -- but it is okay, I hope-- this is my first match on clay and I hope it is going to be better and better. 
 

Q.  You have come in here quite often starting the clay court season here; not done terribly well.  It is a tough tournament to start in.  Have you ever thought about getting on to clay earlier?
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Yeah, start Nice last year, it was same thing.  Depends, I don't feel like-- maybe Barcelona to start Barcelona, but I think if I play, I play here and  I play four more tournaments I am going to play here Madrid, Hamburg, Rome; I think that is enough tennis on clay.  I am going to have enough matches, so I don't think it is so bad to start here.  I was practicing hard before physically, so I can be fit.  I mean, he was a little bit tired in the end of the match and I was pretty fit, so I am okay. 
 

Q.  How long have you actually been practicing on clay, Goran?
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I played Davis Cup on clay so I was practicing-- after Key Biscayne I played on clay and I have enough practice, but you know, practice is different.  You can play good on practice but you have to put those things in the real match and I didn't have a real match a lot of weeks and it is a little bit tough.  But I think I am playing good.  I am hitting the ball good, but I just have to put some little things in my game and it is going to be a little better. 
 

Q.  Have you talked to Bob about your goals for this year, I mean, about the fact that you are now 22, whatever, and the kind of things you should be trying to achieve to make one more step up?
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  Yeah, he wants me to play a little bit more aggressive, doesn't matter where I play, hard court, indoor, clay, he wants me to attack more, to look for the chances to come in; it doesn't matter if I win or lose, just to be able to -- that I improve in something that he can see that I am doing something different. So I am going to try to do -- I mean, try to look for the chance to try to come in more if it is possible, on any surface that I play. 
 

Q.  You said your serve wasn't working, well, why wasn't it working?
 
GORAN IVANISEVIC:  I don't know, I mean sometimes on clay it is so slow I try to force too much and try to hit harder, pretty hard, and then I mean, I miss a lot and I am throwing the ball a little bit too much to the right, and, I don't know, I mean, it was not like I like, like I know to serve; I didn't have my feeling, but when I needed it today sometimes I served okay; not too many aces.  I don't know if I served one ace, maybe couple of aces, but it is pretty -- those balls are pretty heavy and it is not easy to serve.  This tournament-- I had never served good in this tournament, I don't know why, but any other clay court tournament, I am serving pretty good, but, here, I don't know why.  It is okay, if I play good from the back.  It is not so important to serving it great here. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT