NCAA MEN'S 3RD & 4TH ROUND REGIONALS: WASHINGTON
March 23, 2006
Lamar Butler
Jai Lewis
Tony Skinn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Can you give us an analysis of how well Coach did dancing in the locker room (after the UNC game)? 
 LAMAR BUTLER:  It was probably the worst dance move I've ever seen in my life.  Coach has no rhythm it was funny.  He tries his best to get his height when he dances.  We laugh every time. 
 Q.  For any of the players, you guys have been underdogs in a lot of people's eyes.  In this game, you're playing at home and you're if not favored, you're considered a good chance to win this game.  How does that feel when you're this deep in the NCAA Tournament? 
 TONY SKINN:  I think through the course of the NCAA Tournament, I don't think it matter who is we're playing.  We were the underdogs playing against Michigan State and North Carolina, but Wichita State is a great team.  They have been playing real good all year and I think we've just got to go out there and play our game and not worry about what everybody else says. 
 Q.  Can you talk about your performance in Wichita, your five three-pointers, what X's and O's was allowing you to get open with your shots? 
 TONY SKINN:  This team is so balanced, it's like any of our stars can get off and get 20-plus points.  I was able to contribute to the win.  But any game, we've just got to go inside and try to open it up for me, Lamar and Jai? 
 Q.  Can you talk about that game in Wichita, did you come into that feeling it was almost a make-and-break for you getting in the NCAA Tournament? 
 JAI LEWIS:  We were probably the bubble team at the time.  Coming in, people were saying we had no major wins, so going into Wichita state, we knew it was going to be an important game, winning against a team that's ESPN, Top-25. 
 Q.  Lamar, obviously when players get recruited to a high major school, they dream of the National Championship.  When you went to George Mason, obviously imagine you never thought you'd be on the cover of SI or playing in the Sweet 16.  What did you think you were going to be able to accomplish in your career and what's it been like for you? 
 LAMAR BUTLER:  When I first came in, Coach's goal was to go to the NCAA Tournament and I told him I wanted to go to the Sweet 16.  For it to finally happen my senior year is amazing.  I said it but I never imagined how it would be.  It's been fun the last couple of weeks, enjoying the victories we have.  But we're not finished, we have a game tomorrow night, and we're just focused and prepared to play Wichita state tomorrow. 
 Q.  Before you went out to Wichita to play that game, did you have a sense that it was going to be important on whether or not you would make it into the NCAA Tournament and this is a team just like you, Conference leader from a league that doesn't always get multiple bids.  Did you look at that game like it was your big shot to make it into the tournament? 
 TONY SKINN:  I think around that time we were both first place in our Conference.  Everybody was talking about basically the MVC and the CAA.  We wanted to go out and represent our Conference well.  I think our Conference went 6-2 that day against the MVC. 
 Going into that game, we wanted to play the same basketball we've been playing all year and not try to change anything.  The odds were against us, we were playing on the road and we were playing well on the road and fortunately for us, we went out there and played a great game and got the win. 
 Q.  Did any of you think when you walked off the court again that you would see Wichita in this type of situation? 
 LAMAR BUTLER:  We knew they were a tournament team without them playing.  Coach was saying, "That's a Sweet 16 team you just beat," and he kept saying that.  I never imagined we would see them in the NCAA Tournament and we would be in the same bracket but that's the way it is this year.  But this is here, now, chance to go to the Elite 8 and that game is over with, so we're just looking forward to tomorrow. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT