ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS LADIES SCOTTISH OPEN
July 26, 2018
Kelsey MacDonald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  On 18, were you trying to get it close rather than holing it?  
KELSEY MacDONALD: You're picking your line and speed and my speed was good all day and I gave myself really good chances.  That's what you have to kind of do.  I mean, I got the perfect weather for it.  The wind died down towards the end, so really lucky with my tee time.   
 Q.  It was windy at times?  
KELSEY MacDONALD: It was windy to start with but you've just got to stay present, don't you.  I've got Katy on the bag.  She's like my best friend and keeps me intact.   
 Q.  Is that handy?  
KELSEY MacDONALD: Yeah, she kind of brings me back, which is what I need sometimes when it's -- especially on a day like today when it was really hot and slow.   
 Q.  Obviously local knowledge doesn't do you any harm, does it.  
KELSEY MacDONALD: It's pretty good.   
 Q.  How many times have you played here in the buildup for this?  
KELSEY MacDONALD: Quite a lot.  Alasdair and his team at Gullane have been amazing letting me come and play beforehand.  I know Amy came up and played with me, as well, so yeah, and David, the secretary, just allowing us all to really come up and do our homework before playing.   
 Q.  Robert Rock did well around here a couple weeks ago.  Did he offer any advice?  
KELSEY MacDONALD: Is I mean, we speak all the time and he's obviously my coach, but we just stick to the same process.  When I saw him on the leaderboard, that's good vibes.  So you know, it would be nice to follow his footsteps, but you know, just one day at a time.   
 Q.  Feel good about tomorrow?  
KELSEY MacDONALD: Yeah, and it's tartan, as well, for obviously charity of Maggie's and that means a lot to a lot of people.  Aberdeen Standard Investments have been so good with women's golf and me in particular, backing the last four years.  So my first invite to The Scottish Open was through them, so it's really just spiraled from there.   
 Q.  The birdies you had today, was there one that was most pleasing?  Best birdie?  
KELSEY MacDONALD: Best birdie would have been 11 because it's a reachable par 5 but the bunkers off the tee, you're just hitting out sideways.  You're not getting anywhere.   
So we just hit 2-iron off the tee and 6-iron for my second shot which left me a really good yardage and up-and-down.  We played it well.  Tough pins out there.  There was some sneaky slopes, but I mean, the leader, Tiffany Joh at 8-under, 9-under, that's incredible golf, unbelievable.   
 Q.  There's not many between you and her.  
KELSEY MacDONALD: That's just class around there.  Really, really impressive stuff.   
 Q.  You talk about this process quite a bit with Robert Rock.  Can you delve into that a bit more?  
KELSEY MacDONALD: Because I'm quite a quick player and I'm distracted from what I'm actually about to do, so I've kind of just go through, yeah, my process, like I've said.  That just really slows me down and keeps me present, and I'm just taking it one shot at a time.   
When you're younger, you kind of get ahead of yourself or thinking, you know, two holes in front or about the last shot you hit.  That was really good for me to stay in the present.   
 Q.  And then you mentioned a little bit about Aberdeen Standard Investments and their support of you for the last couple of years.  You're obviously an ambassador of theirs.  What would it mean for you to win this event, for them, and obviously for yourself?  
KELSEY MacDONALD: Yeah, it would just be an amazing thing to do, on home turf and have sponsors, you know, and I'm an ambassador for them so that would be fantastic.  It's a strong, strong field and I've just got to keep plodding away, and you never know.  It's four days.  Just got to hole some putts and who knows, who knows.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT