TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 4, 2017
Eli Howard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Kansas State - 42, Texas State - 35
Q. Eli, was there a little bit of a difference in the second half when you saw the new quarterback?
ELI HOWARD: They didn't really change their scheme up too much for No. 10.  We really just tried to keep our play from the first half and just keep getting after him and whatnot.  But like I said, they didn't change their scheme a whole lot for the quarterback change, so we didn't really change how we played him.
Q. Kind of bottled him up in the third quarter but in the fourth quarter got into a rhythm.  Was it something that you all weren't hitting or chunked down?
ELI HOWARD: I think we have to do a better job of getting back there and making him feel uncomfortable.  He's probably a little rattled third quarter because he just came in and wasn't really warmed up or readying to.
He definitely got going in the fourth quarter and the D-line has to put more pressure on him at the end of the day, make him feel uncomfortable and hopefully throw us the ball or something.
Q. Guys are all working together and stuff like that, but is it hard at this point not to be affected by a missed field goal --
ELI HOWARD: Yes, sir, but we're defense.  We expect quick turnaround, sudden change and we've got to handle adversity better, even after the score, I think we could have stopped them on two-point conversion.
We even had a chance in overtime.  I'm not going to say that the missed field goal affected us too much, because we've still got to come to play no matter what.
Q. What's the mood in the locker room?
ELI HOWARD: The mood?  You know, tired of losing.  We've lost about four in a row now but we've got to execute better.  Kind of down on it right now but tomorrow we're going to get ready to go for Baylor and we've just got to keep pushing, keep everyone's heads-up and whatnot.  We've got to execute better as a team and as players.
Q. How do you think you did on the defensive line, given the issues with Kolin being kicked out, injuries and whatnot?
ELI HOWARD: Yes, sir, next man up.  Injuries happen.  Ejections happen.  When you're playing hard, you know, you can't really help a targeting call.  It's not like he meant to do that call in any way.
But as the D-Line, you know, someone else has to step up and make plays and do their job.  We kind of slowed down a little bit in the fourth quarter.  I think we can keep the foot on the pedal and keep pushing.  Definitely improvement from our play.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT