WNBA FINALS: SUN VS MYSTICS
October 10, 2019
Jonquel Jones
Alyssa Thomas
Jasmine Thomas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Washington - 89, Connecticut - 78   
 Q.  Alyssa [Thomas], if you can just talk about that fourth quarter, you guys were up three and they made this 13-2 run. It seemed somewhat similar to Game 4, where you guys in the fourth quarter made a run to take control. What did you feel on the court in that stretch where they turned a three-point deficit into an insurmountable lead?  
ALYSSA THOMAS: I mean, they were aggressive. They found something that was working and kept going back to it, and we struggled to slow it down, and then we couldn't put the ball in the hoop on the other end, and we can't let that happen.   
 Q.  Jonquel [Jones], from an early point in this game you seemed eager to assert yourself. It seemed like that was something you were increasingly comfortable with over the course of this series, and I'm wondering if you feel like you found a different level of assertiveness and engagement in the way you've played this series that you are looking to take forward.  
JONQUEL JONES: I think any time you play in a championship, you learn something about yourself. I think I've been able to take it to another level, but it was just -- you know, it was winner-take-all, so I just wanted to go as hard as I could. Unfortunately, it didn't go our way.   
 Q.  Jonquel, could you talk a little bit about what you thought you guys were doing well so much in the first half, really going into the third quarter you were still able to keep them at arm's length, and what exactly changed on your end and also the Mystics' end for them to go on that run in the fourth quarter?  
JONQUEL JONES: I think AT [Alyssa Thomas] spoke to it. They were aggressive. They were doing the things that were working. Yeah, I think that was the difference, and we weren't able to score the ball.   
 Q.  Alyssa, this is looking ahead already, where are the three of you going to play next? And AT, is shoulder surgery in your immediate future?  
ALYSSA THOMAS: No, I'm about to head overseas to play in Prague.   
JONQUEL JONES: I'm going back to Russia to Ekat [UMMC Ekaterinburg].   
JASMINE THOMAS: I'm waiting until January, taking a break.   
 Q.  Jasmine [Thomas], could you speak to what you think the legacy of this particular team is being able to come within 10 minutes of a final, and obviously your franchise's motto this whole season was "Burn it down" and then later being disrespected, what do you think this group was able to bring to the league and to basketball overall?  
JASMINE THOMAS: I mean, I'm proud of us. I think we asserted ourselves and wanted to make ourselves known in this league, not just as individuals but as a team. You know, we have taken pride in team basketball all season. We're a close group. We really care about each other, and sitting next to these two women up here, with how hard they work and how special they are, they're two of the most talented people I've ever played with. So it hurts that we couldn't win this championship for them, but I think we'll always remember this team.   
I think going forward, we know what we're capable of. We know we can be back here, and we're just -- it hurts right now, but I think we've done -- we have a lot to be proud of.   
 Q.  Jazz, if you look back at -- I think it's the last four champions were the runners-up the year before. Curt [Miller] obviously made a great deal of the fact that there was no one who was 30 on this team until you at the very end, but obviously even so, there's a tremendous amount of youth up and down this roster. I wonder whether you view it as the beginning of something when you think about the arc of where this team is and where it's going.  
JASMINE THOMAS: For sure. I feel like every season we have accomplished more. With those two early exits in the single elimination, I feel like we've grown and we've matured as a team where we're completely different now. We know how to win. I think from the beginning of next season, we'll be determined to get right back here.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT