ROLAND GARROS
May 27, 2018
Gregoire Barrere
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
R. ALBOT/G. Barrere   
4-6, 0-6, 7-5, 6-1, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.   
 Q.  Well done for this match.  You did win two incredible sets, in particular the second set was beautiful.  Since you won in Lille, you played a lot of matches.  Did you feel that physically when you had to tackle the fourth and fifth sets?  And what was it that was missing to get through?  
GREGOIRE BARRERE: Well, obviously since the Lille challenger, I played a lot of matches, I played a lot.  I didn't take much time to practice because I had to be ready for the quallies of a Grand Slam.  Therefore, I didn't have much time to practice.   
I don't think that if I collapsed in the end it was because of that.  I think it was probably due to stress.  I was also very worried about a match to the best-of-five sets.  I hadn't really been able to discover that kind of play, and it's a kind of pressure.   
I really had a pressurize at the end of the day of the third set and beginning of the fourth set.  It was probably due to that more than the number of matches I played.   
Now I'll have to go back to practicing, practice for a few weeks, and be able to pick up on the second part of the tour.   
 Q.  You got a massage.  Would you say the heat or the conditions got into play?  Maybe you had a cramp?  
GREGOIRE BARRERE: Yes.  It was very warm, very stuffy today.  I tend to sweat a lot naturally.   
But we often play in such conditions, so I'm used to these conditions.  Obviously it wasn't any help, but I'll have to work on it.  I'll have to manage my emotions a bit better and get through next time.   
 Q.  You inaugurated the court No. 18, which was full to the brim, a great atmosphere.  Did that help you, or did that represent an added stress?  What do you think of the court and the atmosphere in general?  
GREGOIRE BARRERE: This court is absolutely great.  I had seen the quallies, had gone to see the quallies to see how it was.  I was very happy to play on it.   
There was a bit of pressure, but the public was really great and encouraged me till the end, even when it was very difficult.   
So I was very happy to play on this court, and there can be a great atmosphere.  I'm sure there will be lots of beautiful matches that will last.  And a warm atmosphere.   
I'm sure the players will love it in that court.   
 Q.  What is your feeling?  Are you disappointed to have such a close failure or are you happy of the past 10 months and the journey you have had?  
GREGOIRE BARRERE: Well, I have sort of lukewarm feelings; I'm obviously disappointed to lose like that, but I'm very happy about my playing level for the first three sets.   
I'll have to continue playing like that and seizing the game in my hands.   
I was very far from imagining I could play from here nine months ago, so I'll have to continue making progress.   
 Q.  Would you say there was a real turning point in Lille for you?  
GREGOIRE BARRERE: Yes.  Well, first of all, it enabled me to know that I could beat good players who were in the top 100.  I had never won a challenger tournament, so I was happy to see I could do that.  And the next week I was able to play in another challenger tournament.  Even though I lost in the finals in Bordeaux,  I'll have to continue what I have done over the past six months and to work hard.   
It shows that I'm not far from that level.  And Lille was a great help for the season.   
 Q.  So what do you miss to go to the next step, next level?  What do you think?  
GREGOIRE BARRERE: Well, being in the top 200 was one of my objectives, and I reached that objective in three or four months.  So now obviously I'd like to be in the top 150 as quickly as possible, and why not in the top 100?  But I'll have to continue to work physically.  I have to work on a lot of different points, but it's rather positive.   
It means I still have some ground to cover.  My objective will be to get as close as possible to the top 100, and why not be in it at the end of the tour?  I'll do my best.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT