NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: CAPITALS v RED WINGS
June 15, 1998
Dale Hunter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Here's the question of the day: You guys are down 0-3, getting ready for Game 4 to stay alive in this thing, yet at practice today it seems like you guys had a ball out there.  What does that say about this game?
 
DALE HUNTER:  Well, you know, you can't worry about the past.  What's gone is gone and you've got to worry about what's ahead and that's what we're doing. We're having fun with it and just taking it basically one game and one period at a time and just don't look at the whole big picture, you're down 3-0.  Just look at it, well, we'll win tomorrow and see what goes from there. 
 

Q.  Is this Game 4 as much about getting respect from the Red Wings as much as it is staying alive in the series?
 
DALE HUNTER:  No.  I think they respect us, you know, as team.  One-goal games, all three.  So anything can happen in a one-goal game.  So definitely we've got to play a little better and we just have to score in our scoring chances and maybe get a few more shots on that. 
 

Q.  What about the first period?  It seems all  year you guys have been so good in scoring and taking charge of the game in the first period yet in this series it's been different.  How do you change that in Game 4?
 
DALE HUNTER:  Right.  You know, we've got to be ready for it, concentrate on it.  Maybe don't make such fancy plays early and just get in deep and try to scope a puck in goal or something. 
 

Q.  What was happening out there with the puck? It would appear you guys were having fun with Tik and that little drill at the end of the practice --
 
DALE HUNTER:  Well, we were just practicing in case we ever get a chance to get heavy like the other night, to get it in the net. 
 

Q.  Does it get to be a pride thing when you get to this part because a lot of guys like yourself haven't been this far and you get into the Cup and you're down three games and it's like, we're going out fighting?
 
DALE HUNTER:  We've been a team that never gives up all year.  We need to win -- starting the season, we didn't make the Playoffs last year and, right from the start, we've been battling and bartering, like, naturally, you don't want to look at the big picture, but you look at a small -- like I  said, one game at a time, one period at a time and have fun with it and win tomorrow and worry about the next game. 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT