NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: CAPITALS v RED WINGS
June 12, 1998
Dale Hunter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Ron Wilson was saying he thinks you can bounce back.  How important is it for you to be at home to have the home crowd to come back?

DALE HUNTER: It is important.  Basically they just kept home ice.  They won their two games and we have to win at home now too.


Q.  How frustrating was it, you guys could have won both, should have won last night's?  What is the mindset you have not been able to take that step?

DALE HUNTER: Surely we would like to have a split there in Detroit, but you know, we were right there with them and with a few breaks, we could have really won last night. With a lead like that you should be able to hold it.  Ended up that we didn't and the positive note is that it was a one-goal game, an overtime game and we are coming back to our own arena and we have to hold our own ice.


Q.  What are the little things that you didn't do?

DALE HUNTER: We have got to cut down down the mistake.  Limit their chances more and just keep shooting the puck.


Q.  Is it a frustrating thing knowing that you could have won both?  Was that the team's feeling last night just a big let-down?

DALE HUNTER: When you blow a lead all the time like that, it is a little frustrating, but like you say, you try to take the positives from it where basically they kept home ice and basically we have to win in our own building to get another chance to beat them in theirs.


Q.  Coach says you have to pay the price.  Is there some guys that he feels aren't paying a price and do you agree?

DALE HUNTER: Well, every time you play it is a team game and everybody has to pay the price to win and I think we made a few mistakes last night and they capitalized on them. Turnovers and stuff like that, and that is the game.


Q.  Is that what is separating these two teams right now, just a few little mistakes?  Is that the way you look at it?

DALE HUNTER: Yeah, and they are talented.  They can jump on your mistakes.  Good teams we played, but they have got a little bit more talent up front where if we do make a mistake, they can bury you.


Q.  In terms of where this team is at mentally -- (inaudible) --

DALE HUNTER: It is frustrating after a game like that.  We have to come home and play well in our own rink and do what they did - they won twice in their rink.  They kept home ice and we just have to win our in our own rink.
 

DALE HUNTER: When we have a lead like that, we have to be able to hold it for one thing and tighten up a little bit more defensively.


Q.  How do you shut them down?

DALE HUNTER: We have got to play tighter.  We have got to eliminate our mistakes just play a lit bit better. They capitalize on mistakes.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT