NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: CAPITALS v RED WINGS
June 9, 1998
Dale Hunter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  You waited a long time for this.  Come up a little short.

DALE HUNTER:  Yeah, they scored two goals and we put a lot of pressure on them trying -- scored one trying to get equalized.  Just didn't come out tonight.


Q.  Second and third period you dominated territory and possession.  Two minutes a part -- (inaudible)

DALE HUNTER:  Yeah, they capitalized on a couple of scoring chances they had and we only capitalized once tonight and we had a few at the end there to score and we just didn't get it in tonight.


Q.  The fact is the winner of the first game has won about 80% of the Finals series --

DALE HUNTER:  Buffalo won in the first game at home -- no, you don't look at that.  You look at one game at a time.


Q.  Satisfied with the game?

DALE HUNTER:  Yeah, -- no, when you don't win, you can't be satisfied, so we came up a goal short tonight.
 

DALE HUNTER:  I was a little nervous first shift, you know, first time playing in the Finals like everybody, I think, was.  We settled down; played pretty good hockey and just have to capitalize on a couple of their scoring chances.


Q.  Did this game basically come down to that two minutes and change when the Red Wings got those two goals?

DALE HUNTER:  Yeah, well, they jumped over 2-nothing lead and, you know, they are a good team and we came back and we had our chances to score, though.  We just didn't get it in, that is all.


Q.  Do you bring out of this the fact that they are not invincible; that you have stayed with them for the whole 60?

DALE HUNTER:  Yeah, 2-1 game, you couldn't get any tighter game than that with scoring chances right at the end to tie it up.  It is one of those things where we could have easily tied it up.


Q.  You did a good job shutting down their big named forwards, is that what makes Detroit -- (inaudible)

DALE HUNTER:  You know, sure, they didn't score, but other guys scored -- (inaudible) we got a balanced team over there.  We scored once and we had our chances at the end to tie it up and tonight it just didn't go in and we have got another night.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT