THE CELTIC MANOR WALES OPEN
June 4, 2009
Nick Dougherty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Very good round of golf, talk us through your third shot on the last. 
 NICK DOUGHERTY: Yeah, no doubt I'll get a text about it. It was an awesome shot to be fair. I executed it perfectly, and it was particularly tough. I'm not sure if you can see that on TV how much slope there was off the right, but it was my only option really. Turned out to be a really nice day.

 Q. A couple of 3-putts, but you hit the ball really well. 
 NICK DOUGHERTY: I played fantastic. The only mistakes I made all day were the 3-putts unfortunately. I felt I rushed a little bit on 15 because we were called through that group, but overall I think the main problem I had on the greens was struggling to read because they are really quite slow compared to what they look. So I just found it difficult to get it to the hole. 
 Overall I'm very, very pleased. I thought I played fabulous today.

 Q. You shot four rounds here in the 60s and finished fourth; is this a course that particularly suits your game?
 NICK DOUGHERTY: I don't know, I just like it here. I used to have some great times here with my Mum. She would always come because she was Welsh obviously and I just think it's a great feel to it. I love coming to the Celtic Manor. I think golfers, we are a little bit like that, sometimes when we feel comfortable is when we perform our best. 
 So I feel at home here in Wales, and I've also got some of my mom's side of the family coming down this weekend. So it should be nice.

 Q. So you did rush?
 NICK DOUGHERTY: Yeah, did I rush. I was annoyed with myself. Aside from the two 3-putts, it was a great day. I played wonderful golf. 
 And on 11 the par 5, I hit a good shot 40 feet behind the hole and left it short and missed a short one, a bad putt actually, and really the only two mistakes I made. I hit the ball great. I had great control. I don't really know what my stats were in the round but I would imagine -- I can't really remember chipping that often to be honest. 
 Yeah, very, very pleased and it was nice to see a round of golf like that. Obviously to finish it off as well, because I think when I've played well in the last few months, I've always thrown in some mistakes here and there and not quite finished off a good round so that was very pleasing. 

 Q. You've made a habit of decent shots at the 18th. 
 NICK DOUGHERTY: Yeah, it's been a good hole to me. I was tempted to hit the same club in today but my lie was not quite as good. So I had to go for the hybrid in there and hit it in the back unfortunately but obviously a great chip saved me and it was a nice way to finish the day birdie, birdie. 
 Stuff like that, it's all about confidence, because we are all aware that the pond is over the other side of the green. So when you're playing a flop shot like that, if you get it wrong, if it doesn't get over the top, it rolls back to you and you have the same shot again. And if you hit it skinny, I do recognise that those things are around. But at the same time, I have a lot of trust now. I was really excited to play that shot because I knew what it demanded. I have big thanks because he's really helped me with my short game.

 Q. You mentioned why this place is so special, can you just elaborate?
 NICK DOUGHERTY: It's just a place -- my late mum was Welsh, and she would always come to this event, because it's a beautiful hotel and we used to have some great times there. 
 It's close to me still, and obviously she can't come anymore, but I love it here. I love the Celtic Manor. I find the Welsh people very receptive to me. I'm lucky I've got my mum's sister, my godson, coming down, so it's just a nice feel for me. I do love the golf course; I think it's fabulous. I think the fact that I feel so comfy as well certainly helps.

 Q. A sweet place to win? 
 NICK DOUGHERTY: It would be. I always thought that would be a lovely thing for me to do. I have to keep enjoying the fact that I'm playing a lot better now. Even The London Club, I struggled on the greens, but a lot of guys did that week to be honest. But I've got to enjoy the fact that I'm starting to play some good golf again and certainly on my way back to where I was. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT