QUINN INSURANCE BRITISH MASTERS
September 25, 2008
Nick Dougherty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Tell us about a first round 70.   
 NICK DOUGHERTY: I thought I played really well today. Didn't make any birdie putts at all. My two birdies came on par 5s. I did hole a couple of decent par saves.   
 I'm very pleased with how I hit it. It's nice after I've had a couple week holiday as well and three weeks, also, so very, very pleased with the start.   
  
  Q. And you had a couple of very good finishes; overall pleased? This is your 22nd tournament.   
 NICK DOUGHERTY: Yeah, it is nice to be playing some sort of golf again. As everyone is aware, I've had a really tough year this year and not played well at all. It's nice to be turning the corner and playing some good golf again and nice to have those two good weeks and then to come here and carry it on in the first round is great.  
  
  Q. What was it like watching The Ryder Cup at home?  
 NICK DOUGHERTY: Actually I had two company days on the weekend. I don't know if they were planned on purpose. It was disappointing that we didn't win. I got back in time to watch most of the singles.   
 But I thought the guys did great. I think all of them did fantastically well, especially the rookies, to be honest. It was fun to watch. It was a great atmosphere and obviously we will look forward to the next one and trying to win it back in Wales.  
  
  Q. Must have been disappointing not to make the team; is it true that Nick Faldo invited you to join the party out in Valhalla?   
 NICK DOUGHERTY: That's true. It just wasn't for me. I've always wanted to go to The Ryder Cup as a player, you know, not as an assistant or whatever you want to call it. It was very generous for him to offer for me to go, but it just didn't really work with me and also, I needed some time off.   
 I put so much into making the team. I needed to get away and go on holiday and that's exactly what I did do and I had a great time and I feel much better for it. As much as it was a lovely thing for him to offer me to go out there and be with the guy and experience what they were experiencing from the outside, it just didn't work well with my plans unfortunately.  
  
  Q. Now defending next week, looking forward to that?  
 NICK DOUGHERTY: Yes, absolutely. Hopefully give me some great vibes. I'm feeling much better about the game anyway now and going there will up that again, so, yeah, I'm very excited about going back there. It's obviously a great place to go any time, even if you're defending or not. Very excited.   
 But going to put all my concentration this week first, because I enjoy the golf here, as well.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT