COMMERCIALBANK QATAR MASTERS PRESENTED BY DOLPHIN ENERGY
January 25, 2008
Nick Dougherty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Obviously perplexed after your round, did it surprise you as well? 
 NICK DOUGHERTY:  Yeah, a little bit.  I made some decisions last week that there were some factors in the swing I needed to work on and Damien (Taylor), my coach, have been doing a bit of work and it was nice to get the result today. 
 It was great.  I played solid and hit a lot of fairways so it was a good start. 

 Q.  I know you're hoping for the wind to get up in the afternoon the way it did yesterday. 
 NICK DOUGHERTY:  Hopefully.  It's tough.  When we came here, it looked like it was going to be hammered the course, because there was no rough compared to normal, but it seems that the wind has filled its place.  So I would imagine it will keep getting up a little and hopefully it will stop the guys pressing on too far in front of me. 

 Q.  You've been talking this week a bit about the sort of ongoing unit this three-week swing is, and you talk about the work that you've been doing and there's no need to go away from things; it's a short flight from here and you can carry on.  Is there a continuity about that that you like? 
 NICK DOUGHERTY:  Certainly, it's great to go week-to-week.  It meant I could fly over Monday morning and obviously the time change at the same time and it's great to play in some good weather and fantastic golf courses. 

 Q.  You said at the start of the day it's one thing in a golf tournament to have a really strong field, but to have them all involved in the leaderboard -- 
 NICK DOUGHERTY:  I think Westy looks really strong at the moment.  I fancy Henrik to do well this week, too.  I think it's going to be a tough leaderboard by the end of the day and the weekend, as well. 

 Q.  As one of the young players, Barry lane we saw that he was presented with an award for the 600th tournament, and given what he said about the way the Tour was when he first started, do the young guys really appreciate what you've got here? 
 NICK DOUGHERTY:  I think we do.  I know the stories -- I was four years old when Barry came on Tour.  It's an incredible achievement, 600 events, fantastic, and still going strong now. 
 The Tour has changed a lot, all for the better.  We are very fortunate now and we can compete with the United States and it's a privilege to be a part of it. 

 Q.  Wasn't what you probably wanted? 
 NICK DOUGHERTY:  No, especially my ball got stuck up a tree the first hole yesterday and wasn't ideal by any means.  I stuck in yesterday and got a good score in the afternoon, level par and to go out there and shoot 5-under today, still tough, it was great.  It put me in good position and hopefully I can carry on and play some good golf on the weekend. 

 Q.  And the confidence, did you approach today feeling confident after the way you battled back yesterday? 
 NICK DOUGHERTY:  Not really because to be honest I'm making some changes with my golf swing, and it doesn't fill me with confidence to be honest, especially when it's tough, when it's windy it doesn't help that.  It came together well today and I think the course management and the experience is what got me the 67.  So certainly wasn't anywhere near how I would like to hit it but I'm getting there. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT