ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 5, 2007
Nick Dougherty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Great round? 
 NICK DOUGHERTY:  I played solid today - there were about four or five putts that I would have put my last dollar on to go in, but I am happy with that today. 66 is a great score round any course, but round Carnoustie it's a great score. 
 
 Q. Must be great playing these amazing courses in such good weather and with the pro-am atmosphere? 
 NICK DOUGHERTY:  It's great. There was a bit of breeze at times, like 18 was playing tough when I went through there but all in all the conditions have been amazing. 
 
 Q. Fancy your chances? 
 NICK DOUGHERTY:  I am playing really well at the moment but I am just going to go out there and try to enjoy it. I have tried so hard to win won this year that I am now at the stage of thinking, just go out and have a good time. 
 
 Q. Has there been a definite change of attitude in that way? 
 NICK DOUGHERTY:  I think so. I am still gunning to win one and I know that I can. I have just got to relax and let it happen. One of the main things that has helped me this week is my new putter. Callaway fitted me for a new Odyssey putter and it has been great. I have been using the same putter since I won until two weeks ago and the last couple of weeks it has been very, very good. That has turned it around a bit because that's the difference between shooting 66 and 70. 
 
 Q. I would imagine that's the thing that grates most if you are playing great and not taking the chances? 
 NICK DOUGHERTY:  It is a bit. When you are playing great and don't take the chances and then you make a bogey and you are one over after five or six holes and you should be two or three under it can be frustrating so hopefully I have turned that corner. 
 
 Q. St. Andrews tomorrow? 
 NICK DOUGHERTY:  Yes - the Old Lady. 
 
 Q. She's a beautiful Old Lady? 
 NICK DOUGHERTY:  She is indeed, although she has never been that good to me to be honest, so I think it's time for the tide to turn. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT