BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 25, 2007
Nick Dougherty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  71, leaves you at the moment quite well placed as people are not scoring at the moment. 
 NICK DOUGHERTY:  Yeah, maybe that's why I feel like I do about my round.  I feel it's been a bit sloppy.  Bogeys, I made four yesterday and seven birdies, and today I only had four birdies so the three bogeys pretty much cancelled them out.  I'm relatively pleased with it. 
 I didn't play quite as well today.  I played lovely yesterday.  Sort of played good but I hit a couple of slack iron shots and my 3-wood wasn't too good. 

 Q.  Where were the slack irons? 
 NICK DOUGHERTY:  I hit bad shot on 6, a little half 6-iron really into that green and I pulled it left of the green. 
 7, I hit a good shot to about 5-foot and spun it off the green and had a horrible pitch shot from where I was. 
 And then on 14, I 3-putted.  That was a poor iron shot, I hit on the front right and it was a difficult putt.  I just wasn't quite there with the irons. And the 3-wood. I hit a lot 3-woods around this course, I'm hitting my driver great but doesn't ask for it on the holes half the time around here.  Holes like 18, it's a gimmie birdie really after you hit the tee shot, downwind today, not my typical tee shot and anywhere on the fairway I can reach, so disappointed not to make birdie there. 
 But all in all mostly pleased because it was a tricky day and I think -- I don't know, the course doesn't seem difficult, but no one's really hammering it at the moment. 

 Q.  Can't put your finger on why? 
 NICK DOUGHERTY:  The greens are really tricky here, but just bogeys -- it's perfect, it's fairly calm, it's great condition, I don't know.  Just can't put my finger on it to be honest. I pleased though as it keeps me in the hunt. 
 I don't really understand why because I thought it was tougher last year and I scored better on it.  I don't know, it's disappointing and a little bit confused by it, but there's still plenty of time for the guys to get out.  I think David got to 11 under last year after two rounds and I would be surprised if someone got there, but it's feasible unless if they shot 5 under on Thursday and made a really good one today. 
 Form is not too bad.  I would have liked to get another one in the 60s today, but this still gives me a good chance on the weekend anyway. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT