THE CELTIC MANOR WALES OPEN
June 6, 2009
Nick Dougherty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. That day wasn't going to plan going out in 40 but you came back in 30; explain yourself.   
 NICK DOUGHERTY: Yeah, it was a tough day out there. The course is playing ridiculously long. There's no run on the ball. The front nine was really tough. I didn't hit many bad shots to be honest, and I paid the penalty every time I was a little off.   
 So wasn't great, but I knew that I would have a chance, because I was playing good enough, and I was fabulous on the back nine. It's one of those things, because everyone knows the forecast tomorrow, and I did think -- my goal today was to try to get to the lead by the end of the day, or at least tied for it. So I prepared like it was my last round I played today in case it's cut off. But now I'll prepare like I've got another one to come, because obviously I don't want to think that, that I hope it rains.   
 I'm very proud because I won the golf tournament today in my own way. I was very, very pleased with that, especially to eagle 18, knowing that I really wanted to get to 5-under, because I know that's probably going to be the mark. I'll be surprised if somebody goes past it, so very happy.  
  
  Q. Very difficult day, you're out in 40, can't easily get away from you, but you've been playing well recently; were you thinking you could bring it back?  
 NICK DOUGHERTY: I backed myself. That's something I haven't done for a year. I backed me to play the golf that I can play, and I gave it the opportunity to happen, which it did. It won't always, and it did. I deserved the good results I had on the back nine. And the putter got hot again for me because it's been a little quiet for the last week or so, and holed a couple of nice putts. So all in all, I was delighted with that.  
 You know, if you back yourself, we're all good enough players out here that if we trust ourselves that we can do it, there's a chance it will happen, and I did that well today.  
  
  Q. How big a bonus to get finished?  
 NICK DOUGHERTY: It's great. Like I say it's a weird day, because you think, well, this could be it. You also don't know if you're going to get to the end, and playing 18 now is going to be tricky, because it is getting really hard to read.   
 I was getting really lucky on 18 that I got to read Ignacio's putt before mine, so I know what it did. But yeah, it's difficult, and obviously we've got to hope tomorrow that the weather is good enough for us to all get back out there again and get it done for four rounds because it would be a shame for it could be cut to three.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT