US OPEN
September 5, 1997
Nicklas Kulti
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Despite losing, this puts you in good position for Hartford, up about No. 5 or so. 
 
 NICKLAS KULTI: Yeah. I'm not really sure. 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: Yeah? 
 
Q. That's what they said.
 
 NICKLAS KULTI: Okay. 
 
Q. Are you looking forward to that?
 
 NICKLAS KULTI: Yeah. It was a good effort to qualify for the World Championships. Eight
best guys in the world for singles. Doubles, eight best teams. So I think it's very good
in that case. We haven't qualified yet. Hopefully we will. 
 
Q. You were 2-Love up in both sets. Couldn't keep it alive. What was going on?
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: No. We got broken straightaway. That's what happens. We had a lot of
opportunities today, and we didn't make the opportunities. If you don't make them against
the top teams, it's tough to win matches, definitely. 
 
Q. How many matches will you play together this year in doubles, because you are
choosing to play more singles, I suppose? How many tournaments are you going to play in
doubles?
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: We have two for sure, and maybe one more. It all depends. Nicklas,
unfortunately, lost his ranking a little bit. He wants to try to get it back as fast as he
can to be ready to play some good tennis again. I think we're going to play Paris and
Stockholm for sure, and maybe Stuttgart. 
 
Q. For how long Kulti plays on the right side and you play on the left? I know you
changed maybe your partnership, changed sides.
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: I think we've been playing the same. You mean that I played with Apell? 
 
Q. Yes. With Apell, you play on the left side or the right side?
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: I played on the forehand side with Apell, now I play backhand side. 
 
Q. Together you always play on the same side?
 
 NICKLAS KULTI: Last year we played the same as we did today. In the beginning of the
year, we tried to change that. 
 
Q. Why do you change? 
 
 NICKLAS KULTI: We always like to be better. I mean, always try to improve all the time.
We try that. We agree that we played a little better when it was done me on the forehand
and Jonas on the backhand. 
 
Q. Which difference you can see in Bjorkman now, but he is a better singles player?
More personality? Take more risks or what?
 
 NICKLAS KULTI: He looks the same to me (laughter). 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: More cocky. 
 NICKLAS KULTI: I mean, single-wise, he's moving much better than he did last year, I
think. Of course, his confidence has been building up. With that, you play a little
better. I mean, you can take more risks and you're confident with that. I mean, Jonas has
improved a lot, actually. 
 
Q. This make more motivation to you?
 
 NICKLAS KULTI: Yeah, of course. I mean, I like to see it when Jonas is playing good.
That makes me want to play good, too. Jonas is trying to give me confidence. We practice
together. We give each other some tips. Of course, it helps when he's playing good. 
 
Q. How would you describe your opponents today?
 
 NICKLAS KULTI: Well, yeah, they're both very solid tennis players. They both serve very
big, return big, especially Kafelnikov returns very big. They won French Open two times
and the final here, so, of course, they must be good tennis players. To beat them, you've
got to play really good and convert the chances that you get. We had our chances today. We
didn't convert them. If you don't do that, then you're not going to win. 
 
Q. To be a good couple in the field, you must build up sort of a chemistry, even
outside the field, as friendship or share the same interests or not?
 
 NICKLAS KULTI: Of course, it's very important that you get along good. I mean, me and
Jonas, we are very good friends. I think that's important. We enjoy playing with each
other. We like to be with each other off the court, just have fun. I think that's very
important. 
 
Q. What are your favorite things to do, go to a movie?
 
 NICKLAS KULTI: Favorite thing is to see my soccer team beat his soccer team. 
 
Q. What's yours?
 
 NICKLAS KULTI: Djurgarden. Champions league for two years (laughter). 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT