ROLEX PARIS MASTERS
November 2, 2017
Nicolas Mahut
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








F. KRAJINOVIC/N. Mahut
6-2, 3-6, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.
Q. Did you believe you should at some point make it shorter, especially at the end of the first set?
NICOLAS MAHUT: Yes, no.  No.  I wanted to go as far as possible and try my best.  I had my wife, my son in the stands, and friends.  I was in the round of 16 in Bercy and I didn't want to get out of this tournament like that.
Q. Can you tell us how bothering your calf was during the match?  Were you able to move and run around?
NICOLAS MAHUT: Well, just look at how I played two days ago and today and you'll see the difference.  It's very painful to finish the tournament like this, because it was a good opportunity that I had here to reach the quarterfinal.
So it is not a very pleasant thing to experience.
Q. Were you afraid it was going to get worse during the match with the Davis Cup in the loom?
NICOLAS MAHUT: Of course.  Yesterday, I had an ultrasound examination which was positive, so that's why I played doubles and this morning I felt better.  And I really hoped it would be all right.
In the semifinal of the Davis Cup I had a similar injury, but I had 24 hours rest.  This time, I couldn't because I played doubles yesterday.  So I had to use my leg and, of course, during this match the pain came back quite early.
I saw that if the rallies were lasting more than two or three shots my calf was hurting a lot and I had to make the rally shorter if I could, and it was complicated, of course.
Q. So now there's a worry about the Masters and the Davis Cup then?
NICOLAS MAHUT: Well, immediately I'm going to have an MRI.  If you don't ask too many questions I will go there quickly and I will know more about it tonight.
Q. Given your health now, was it less frustrating to play on Court No. 1 today or is it any way a disappointment to play a round of 16 on a court No. 1 instead of center court?
NICOLAS MAHUT: When you are a French player and you're in the round of 16 you want to play on center court.  But, of course, given my injury and my game, I believe the crowd wouldn't have liked my match anyway so it's not that bad that I played on No. 1.
I'm not sure I will be able to have the opportunity of going into the quarterfinal here in Bercy so I'm very frustrated.
Q. Are you more than worried?
NICOLAS MAHUT: I don't know what it means.  I'm worried for sure.  Of course, the ultrasound was reassuring yesterday.  I was hoping it would be all right, but this morning it was not that good.  So I hope it didn't get worse.  I'll know more tonight.
Q. So you might not play doubles tomorrow?
NICOLAS MAHUT: Of course, yes, it's possible I won't be able to play.  We'll talk about it with the physio, the doctor, Pierre-Hugues.  We would like to continue the tournament.  We went to the finals last year.  But if I'm feeling like I do now, we will not be able to win the quarterfinal or further.
So we'll see what the MRI says and we'll make a decision after that.
Q. So what is your assessment of this singles season?
NICOLAS MAHUT: I've been not as well ranked as last year, only top 100.  I traveled a lot.  I went to Japan.  I went to Miami.  So it was difficult for me to be consistent in my singles.
It is difficult to play several seasons playing singles and doubles.  It's the third year I've been doing that and it was difficult this year and I was not as consistent as before.
I'm going to choose more carefully my schedule for next year, but I see I am really able to play well in some singles events and have a high level.  So I will try that next year again.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT