ROLEX PARIS MASTERS
October 30, 2017
Nicolas Mahut
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








N. MAHUT/V. Pospisil
5-7, 7-5, 7-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.
Q. I believe this match was good for you.  As a single match also, you are finding a new energy here.
NICOLAS MAHUT: Of course.  After Orleans I wanted to have a break because part of the season had been pretty busy and when I started playing again in Antwerp it was difficult.  But then in Basel I played better.
And today it was even better.  I feel good physically and I have a lot of energy.  I was serving better, moving better.
So a victory in a Masters 1000 is extremely pleasant to have.
Q. You are going to be 36.  How fit are you?
NICOLAS MAHUT: Well, I do always the same things.  I try to play in singles and doubles, although in doubles I have higher expectations.  I am going to play for being in the Australian Open tomorrow in doubles.  So it is important for me.
I don't want to give up singles either to play only doubles, and I'm just trying to be good at both.
Q. You were in the quallies in the US Open.  Is it easy to accept?  Would you play smaller tournaments in 2018?
NICOLAS MAHUT: I have no ego issues.  If I'm not qualified directly for the main draw, I have no problems playing the quallies.  I did many quallies in my career.  The difficult part is in Wimbledon because we don't play on the same side.  Otherwise it's no problem.
And playing in the quallies for the US Open didn't stop me being in the main draw after all.  And I need to prepare before.  It's a good preparation because it's tough to qualify.
What is more difficult for me is to play challenges in singles when I'm not playing in France.  It's more difficult for me to leave my home if I have to go and play challenges out of France.
Q. You kept watching Polo playing his last match.  You seemed moved.  Did you think of yourself?
NICOLAS MAHUT: No, I was not thinking about him at all.  I was there for him, to watch him.
But it was quite moving because we grew up together.  Under 14 we played the tournaments, we were playing in the tournaments in France together.  So we've been friends for 25 years now.  So we lived this passion together.
Of course, we were not at our best at the same moments of our career, but it's been 20 years we've been on the tour.  So it was quite moving to watch him play his last match.
I had tried to play very late on Saturday to be able to see him but we played more or less at the same time.  But I thought that if he was losing I would stop my practice session and watch him because it was an important moment.  I believe there was not enough people watching his match yesterday.  It was not warm enough in this stadium.
But there will be the doubles match too.  And I believe people will see him then.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT