MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 18, 2017
Nicolas Mahut
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. KHACHANOV/N. Mahut
6-2, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.
Q. How is your injury?
NICOLAS MAHUT: It's the first day I have been playing without any pain.  I'm very happy.  I won't tell you how it happened.
Q. Why not?
NICOLAS MAHUT: It was after match point in Rouen.  I let myself fall on my knees.  It hurt.  I couldn't practice for one week.  During the past two days, it's been a bit better.
Today I played without pain.  I had a calcification and there was some water around.  Today was all right.  It's good news.
Q. What did you think of your opponent?
NICOLAS MAHUT: He's still young.  He can become very good.  He can improve a lot.  He has a very good coach.  He will be very good in the future.
Q. What was difficult for you coming into this tournament?
NICOLAS MAHUT: Last week I wanted to have two days' rest.  After that I wanted to try to get used to the conditions here.  What is difficult for me is moving around on the court.
I didn't have much preparation.  I believe this match is encouraging.  But now I need to spend more time on clay, to spend hours on it, practice, adapt my aggressive game to it.
You always have to strike the right balance between being aggressive and waiting for the right shot.  Some things you are able to do during practice that you can't do during a match.  I have two weeks ahead of me to work on that.
Q. So you're going to play other tournaments on the tour?
NICOLAS MAHUT: I'm going to play in Madrid.  I'm going to play some doubles.  I'll have 10 days' practice before Madrid, where I'm playing the quallies.
Q. You're not supposed to go back to Brittany?
NICOLAS MAHUT: Yes, in Taden there is a tournament.  I will be able to play matches on clay over there.  It's part of my preparation.
Q. Is it really on clay?
NICOLAS MAHUT: Well, that's what I was told.  Even if it's in Brittany...  It's indoors?  Really?  Well, I thought it was on clay.
I'm going to try to find more information about it.
Q. Jo being back is good news for the French Davis Cup team?
NICOLAS MAHUT: Of course.  If you have the top players, it's always better.  Now Yannick will have to make a choice for the selection of players.  If all players show up, they will be very much concerned, eager to play.  It's a good thing.
The captain is the one who will make the decision.  If we are all involved, we have chances to maybe come up with good news at the end.
Q. What happened in Bercy during the evening?
NICOLAS MAHUT: I don't really know.  With Pierre-Yves, we left early.  What happened is that Jo announced that for some reasons he was not able to be with us during the whole campaign.  After, a certain number of things happened.
The important thing is that now he's back for the semis.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT