ROLAND GARROS
May 26, 2014
Nicolas Mahut
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. KUKUSHKIN/N. Mahut
      6‑3, 6‑7, 6‑3, 6‑4

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please. 

Q.   Congratulations. 
    NICOLAS MAHUT:   Congratulations?   I lost.

Q.   You lost?   Okay.   So what happened out there? 
    NICOLAS MAHUT:   Are you serious?   Did you watch the match? 

Q.   No, I didn't.   I was told that you won.   I'm sorry.
    NICOLAS MAHUT:   Questions in French, please. 

Q.   You already talked about the conditions.   The match was interrupted because of the rain.   How did you experience this?   Was it tougher for you than for your opponent?   How did you manage to manage the conditions? 
    NICOLAS MAHUT:   Well, the conditions were bad for everybody, for all the players, for the spectators. 
    When you're an attacker you hope to have sunshine, warm weather so that you can play a good, attacking game.
    In spite of this, I had some fun.   I had some fun because we had a fight.   I'm very frustrated because I lost, but if I had won the match it would have been a very, very good memory.
    That's it.   Very early this morning I understood that it was going to be difficult.   It's happened to me before in the past that the match was interrupted. 
    Physically I did not fear anything.   I was well‑prepared.   If the match had continued, I would've done well.
    Definitely my service quality today was poor. 

Q.   Unfortunately you lost the match, so we're not going to have a remake of your match against John Isner.   I would like to know whether in this match you felt that you could have played him in the second round, and what was your reaction when you found out you wouldn't? 
    NICOLAS MAHUT:   Well, I thought it might have happened because everybody talked about it; however, I did not really think about that match because I had to get through the first round first.   And I didn't.
    Obviously would've been very nice to have played Isner here again.   Honestly, I don't want to talk about that because that match is never going to happen.   I would rather not talk about it.   It's sad for everybody.

Q.   You talked to the referee.   What did you talk about? 
    NICOLAS MAHUT:   Well, about the rain interruption.   I felt like they stopped the match whenever they pleased.   We didn't know whether we were going to stop, continue.   They stopped and started again two minutes later.
    I had trouble understanding, that's all.   Nothing else. 

Q.   In the fourth set we felt your opponent wasn't too well physically.   He seemed to have signs of strain on his face.   Did you see that?   Did you think, Maybe if I can come back into the fifth set I might win it?
    NICOLAS MAHUT:   Yes, I could see it was beginning to be difficult for him.   It was a tough match physically.   Again, the court was wet.   Sliding was a bit more difficult and demanding.
    I saw that he was having trouble.   I wish I could have led him into a fifth set.   He would've been in trouble then.   But it never happened. 
    I can be happy that I felt better than he did, but this is not going to allow me to play a match on Wednesday.

Q.   What about your frustration?   All the efforts you made to play on this surface and year not being rewarded, is that part of the frustration?
    NICOLAS MAHUT:   Well, that and other things.   You know, the frustration is not being in the second round at Roland Garros.   Nobody cares whether I go to the second or the third round here at Roland Garros.   But for me it's very important.   It hasn't happened very often to me to go to the second or third round. 
    Today he was well within my reach.   I could have won, and that's why I'm very disappointed. 
    But, again, I have to bounce back.   There is nothing else I can do.   It's very difficult to come and talk to the journalists half an hour after the match.   My mind is still a bit fuzzy.   I might say stupid things.   I'm trying to focus, by the way.   It's not very easy. 
    It's going to take some time.   And the doubles, I still have to play the doubles.   I can remain focused on the tournament and move on to the next tournament.

Q.   Plans for the future? 
    NICOLAS MAHUT:   I'm sure you know about that. 

Q.   Well, I have an idea. 
    NICOLAS MAHUT:   What's that? 

Q.   Well, grass. 
    NICOLAS MAHUT:   Where do we start? 

Q.   Queen's?
    NICOLAS MAHUT:   And then?

Q.   Wimbledon.
    NICOLAS MAHUT:   Before that? 

Q.   'S‑Hertogenbosch?
    NICOLAS MAHUT:   And then after Wimbledon? 

Q.   Newport?
    NICOLAS MAHUT:   That's it.   Congratulations. 

Q.   At least somebody is listening. 
    NICOLAS MAHUT:   Well, that's never happened to me.   You get surprises. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT