AEGON CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 11, 2013
Nicolas Mahut
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. MAHUT/R. Williams
  6‑3, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Next up for you is Mr.Murray.   Your thoughts on that?
NICOLAS MAHUT:   Yeah, to play Andy here at Queen's is not a good draw, but last year I played amazing and I won the match.   So I hope this year it's going to be the same, but, you know, everyone expect him to win here, to win Wimbledon, so he has a lot of pressure on his shoulder, so it would be much easier for me to play tomorrow. 

Q.   How much of an advantage would it be that you have had a match today on grass whereas this will be Murray's first match?
NICOLAS MAHUT:   His first match here and first match since, I don't know, a month.   Back problem?   Back problem.   I think if he's playing here it means he's feeling 100%. 
But still, it's the first round, especially on grass.   And I know he had some practice here, but still it's never easy to start a tournament, especially in the grass season.
Of course it's better for me to play him here on first round than in Wimbledon in two weeks.   So I know that, I knew it last year, and I hope I could play my best tennis tomorrow.

Q.   What's the secret to beating him?   What did you learn last year?
NICOLAS MAHUT:   The secret against Andy?   There's no secret.   You have to play very, very good tennis; otherwise you lose.   There is no option. 
The secret is no secret.   I have to play my game, play good.   Of course, if he's at his best level, that will be very difficult for me.

Q.   Do you feel, given his recent layoff, that you're more confident with pulling off the same result this year?
NICOLAS MAHUT:   No, no.   You know, even if I beat him last year, and even if he didn't play for a month, he is still No. 2.   He won the gold medal on grass.   It was finalist at Wimbledon.   He won here two years ago. 
So it's enough, no?   (Smiling.)   He's the favorite, and it's going to be a tough match but exciting to play. 
You know, six months ago I was not able to play.   I was injured for six months.   Now I'm going to play Andy second round on centre court at Queen's, so I'm going to enjoy the moment.

Q.   What was your injury?
NICOLAS MAHUT:   I had a knee problem, the quad tendon.   So I had to stop for six months, so I'm really happy to be back.

Q.   You have had a lot of wins here, haven't you?   What is it about playing here that brings the best out of you?
NICOLAS MAHUT:   You know, I feel the atmosphere.   I feel coming back here, I feel like home here.   I know Chris Kermode for many years.   He's the best tournament director on the tour.   I know his daughter well.   I know everyone from the tournament:   the press agent, the practice court, the concierge, the people from the transportation. 
So I know since ten years I played here every year.   I really feel home and I love play on grass.   To me, the grass season is always too short, but I don't know why.   My best two victories here.   I beat Rafa.   I beat Andy last year.
I don't know how to explain that.   Just enjoy, really enjoy to play here.

Q.   What are your reflections on your match today?   Were you pleased with your return to the grass?
NICOLAS MAHUT:   Yeah, today I played well.   I don't need to practice much on grass to play match. 
Just arrive Sunday from Paris.   Practice only 30 minutes yesterday morning before the doubles and played the doubles yesterday night.
Today I play a great match.   I'm really happy about it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT