AEGON CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 10, 2009
Nicolas Mahut
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. MAHUT/M. Cilic
  7-6, 7-6 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. You must be pretty pleased with that after the tough time you've been having?  
 NICOLAS MAHUT: Yeah, I'm really happy, you know. You know, I beat a guy top 15, so of course I'm really happy, especially here at Queen's. I'm third round, so I want to go further.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about what you mentioned on the TV interview about the racquet?  
 NICOLAS MAHUT: I mean, I don't know what happened. My racquet just disappeared before my match, so I don't know. Maybe a player took it by mistake. I don't know what happened really. We have to find out, but we have to ask two other players.  
  
  Q. All your racquets?  
 NICOLAS MAHUT: No, just one.   
  
  Q. Just one?  
 NICOLAS MAHUT: Hopefully I had four more in the bag.   
  
  Q. How are you feeling on grass this year? You've had a good record here before, and you've got the game to go far.   
 NICOLAS MAHUT: I mean, I love this surface so much. You know, since I was junior, I won the Wimbledon title in junior. You know, here is my favorite tournament. I cannot explain how much I like to play on this -- especially on the center court.   
 You know, even if I lost in final with match points two years ago, it's so many good memories from -- I mean, the crowd was just fantastic with me, and I have fun, you know.   
 I cannot explain. I really love play here. You know, I played two good matches, and, you know, the road is really long, but I know the way to go farther.  
  
  Q. Do you think grass is best suited to your game?  
 NICOLAS MAHUT: Yeah, I can serve and volley and I can -- I can play really aggressive. It's a good surface for my game.  
  
  Q. And you obviously beat Nadal in 2007 here. That must prove to you that you can beat the best players.   
 NICOLAS MAHUT: Maybe this match was really important for my career. From this match, I know I can beat everyone. I can lose, too, but I can beat everyone.  
 So every time I play on this surface, I know I can be really dangerous.  
  
  Q. Do you think you can be a threat at Wimbledon?  
 NICOLAS MAHUT: You know, I don't know. I have to pass through the qualification first, because I'm not in -- I'm not in the main draw with my ranking, so I ask for invitation wildcard, so maybe I will get one. From now, I have to play next Monday qualification. It's too far.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT