NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: FLAMES v LIGHTNING
June 6, 2004
Martin Gelinas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Marty, should you come up with another series winner, that would be an unprecedented achievement.  Any point in the last couple of days where you have allowed yourself to think about that possibility? 
 MARTIN GELINAS: Not at all.  I think you know, we're in a pretty special place right now.  We have got an opportunity to win and doesn't matter we score that goals, obviously would have been nice yesterday if it would have, but we got another opportunity to win now and doesn't matter how we score the goals. 
 Q.  The team has a great record on the road.  It is a big advantage for you guys tomorrow night to know you can do it.  You are not afraid to play on the road; you are very confident... 
 MARTIN GELINAS: Seems like on the road we feel good, yeah.  We just get back to basics and which is chipping pucks and working hard and going to corners and working the corners, throwing a lot of pucks on net.  Yesterday you could feel at home that guys were a little tense and probably overwhelmed with everything what was going on with the surrounding outside and so on.  So tomorrow our heads will be clearer, our feet will be fast, we'll be ready to go. 
 Q.  Have you had a chance to see the ABC television replay of -- as well as the Calgary Sun front page picture today, both of those look a little more conclusive than what we saw with the others.... 
 MARTIN GELINAS: That's right.  I did see it when I got home yesterday.  I saw it in the newspaper, and it's very unfortunate, you know, could have been the turning point last night.  There's just a few minutes left in the game.  At the same time, I am disappointed, but it's part of the game and that's the card we were dealt and got to move on and tomorrow we got a huge game.  It's a do-or-die for both teams.  It will be an exciting game, and we'll make the best out of it. 
 Q.  Now that you have seen it, do you think that was a goal? 
 MARTIN GELINAS: It looked in, unless the  -- unless from the angle they were shooting, you can see it, or it is changing the angles, but anyway, I mean, you could judge it too.  I mean, it was right there. 
 Q.  Were you surprised that they didn't stop the game and then go review it; that the game pretty much started right away? 
 MARTIN GELINAS: We could talk about this goal for as long as we want.  The picture is there.  The film is there.  They didn't count it, they didn't count it.  We have got to move on now and you know, obviously the NHL looked at it and they decided that it wasn't in. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT