NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: BRUINS v CANUCKS
June 10, 2011
Johnny Boychuk
Dan Paille
Tyler Seguin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

 Q. Johnny, Ryan Kesler does not seem the same player after you hit on him in the second game. It was a hard hit but it was clean and you're an honest player. Do you think the physicality of the play that you bring in game in and game out and the physicality that we see in the series has sent a message to the Canucks and there is going to be a high price to pay if they get into the so called "greasy" areas? 
 JOHNNY BOYCHUK: Well, the first two games we were playing physical and so were we. It's not like we changed anything, but we're going to be doing the same things that they have been doing. 

 Q. Guys, talk about how important it would be to get off to a fast start, get couple of goals early today to get you guys playing the way you play on the road?
 DANIEL PAILLE: I guess it would be nice, but it doesn't always happen that way for all of us. We've been there before where we haven't scored in the first period and been down or tied, so we know not to get too worried about it and just focus on our style. 

 Q. Home team has held serve in the first four games of this series. What's it going to take to beat this team in this building as far as you're concerned tonight? 
 TYLER SEGUIN: I think definitely we need that good start like Pais was just talking about. We lost the first two here, we won the last two and made our adjustments. And when you're in this building, you have to have a good start and try to get the fans out of it a little bit. 

 Q. Johnny? 
 JOHNNY BOYCHUK: I think just even if we don't score the first goal or if we do, we have to keep playing the same way that we have and not stray away from it. Just make sure if they do score the first goal, not let it get into our minds, know that we have to come back and make sure to keep doing the same things that got us here. 

 Q. Johnny, can you talk a little bit about the chemistry that's built between you and Andrew Ference over the last couple of months as you guys played together. 
 JOHNNY BOYCHUK: Well, when you play with someone for a long time, I think throughout the course of the year defensemen have all played together, whether it's me and Andy, me and Kaba, we've been doing a job of trying to adjust to our partner's style. We have the chemistry that if they put us with anybody, we can adjust and do the job no matter what. 

 Q. Johnny, in getting back to the physical play in front and stuff like that, Timmy has become part of that in the last couple of games. And earlier in the series the Canucks were complaining about him getting out of the crease and roaming where he shouldn't be. Do you guys have to keep an eye on that, that they take a few liberties after what has happened? 
 JOHNNY BOYCHUK: If somebody does take liberty, you've got to back your goalie up. But he's a passionate player and that's his style of game. He's not going to stray away from it. He's playing great and I don't want him to change a thing. 

 Q. Tyler, just to follow-up on that, what's the confidence level that you guys have. When Tim is "in the zone," what that does for you, the other 18 skaters on a night when you know that he's on his game? 
 TYLER SEGUIN: Definitely it's going to make us feel good. Regardless of if he's having a good night or bad night, we always have confidence in him, even if he's knocking a shot out, we know near the end of the game he's always going to make that big save. It definitely makes, from the goalie out, all of us very confident. 

 Q. The Canucks seem to be really put out that Mike Milbury called the Sedin twins Thelma and Louise. I'm wondering if you guys have another name for them? 
 DANIEL PAILLE: Not at all. I'm sure there are a lot of names that people have been calling them, but for us, we go out there and try to play as physical as we can. 
 You know, we have fun in doing how we play, but for me, and I'm not much of a talker out there so I just kinda get at my play and show it there.

 Q. Brad called himself a "rat." Do you have another name for him? 
 DANIEL PAILLE: Brad did, eh? That's funny. I like that name for him. 
 But he's a confident guy and he's been nothing but great for us this series. And hopefully we can get him to continue with that. 

 Q. What do you guys expect from the Canucks tonight, especially being back here in their home building? 
 DANIEL PAILLE: I expect them to play like they did when we were here last time. They have the crowd, they have the energy, you know, they're going to try and create that momentum through them. Our job is to stay within the course, stay focused and realize that we got a job to do. 
 We maintain that and we'll be good. 

 Q. The Boston media has had a lot of fun labeling certain Canucks as villains, the Vancouver media has responded by naming the Bruins as villains. Are you guys cool with that? 
 DANIEL PAILLE: I mean, it's been an intense series. From watching years in the past, I don't know if there has been so much hatred on either side. 
 I think we all want to win and we all put it out there as much as we can. It's been that type of series where everyone is kinda getting away with things and it's been kind of interesting to watch, I guess. 

 Q. After seemingly finding the formula on how to win games in this series while you were in Boston at the Garden, if you play that way, do you think it doesn't matter what building you're in? 
 TYLER SEGUIN: I think you have to maybe pretend like we're playing at home, maybe go out tonight and maybe block everything out and just play our game, carry on like we've done the last two games, stay consistent with that. And I think if we do that for the full 60 tonight, hopefully it works out for us. 

 Q. Back to Johnny, can you talk about Andrew Ference, how he's helped you, a veteran guy and how he's helped you in the second year here? 
 JOHNNY BOYCHUK: He does a lot of things right, he sees the play well and he skates the puck well when he has a chance to. Gets his shots through, plays physical, and he brings that edge that I like to play as well, likes to play physical when the time calls to be smart physically. 
 When you play with Andy for a while, it's nice to know that if you do have an off-game, he's going to be there to back you up or vice versa. If he has an off-game, I'll be there to back him up. And we know that we got each other's backs no matter what. That's great to have in a teammate and a defense partner. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT