NHL ENTRY DRAFT
June 22, 2002
Dan Paille
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  With each pick that went along, how were you feeling?  Were you getting more nervous? 

DAN PAILLE:   Every pick, I was just getting exactly as you said, more nervous.  I knew whenever I would get picked that I would be so thrilled and filled with joy and excitement.  I'm very happy that Buffalo picked me.  I got pretty lucky with the team picking me.  I'm fortunate to be on Buffalo. 

Q.  How familiar are you with them?

DAN PAILLE:   When I grew up I always went to Buffalo games to watch, because I always wanted to play on a team.  Playing for Buffalo is a great dream.

Q.  Were you a Buffalo fan growing up?  Is that the team you rooted for?

DAN PAILLE:   I wasn't a Buffalo fan.  I was a Montreal fan, but I always went to see Buffalo.

Q.  What do you make of the cheers and the reaction that you got out there? 

DAN PAILLE:   I have a big family, so my reaction, I think it was ten times bigger than what it was supposed to be.  I think they were a little too loud at points; sometimes it was unnecessary.  But they are supportive and I really like that.

Q.  Can you tell us how you are going to prepare yourself mentally to make the transition to the NHL? 

DAN PAILLE:   I just want to try my best at everything I do, especially on the ice.  I will probably do some visualization as well.  I do that quite a bit.  I think they'll be prepared very well.

Q.  How far away do you think you are from being able to play in the National Hockey League? 

DAN PAILLE:   I hope in the next five years that I will be ready.

Q.  What do you think now about your hometown, how proud they must be of you right now. 

DAN PAILLE:   What do you think?  (Laughter).

Q.  Hosting the Memorial Cup this year, being a big factor in that, does that cap off a fantastic season for you? 

DAN PAILLE:   It's been a tremendous season.  I know I could have done better in some situations, but it turned out really good.

Q.  How would you describe yourself as a hockey player?

DAN PAILLE:   I would describe myself as a physical player.  I take it to the net.  I like going in the corners.  I won't be afraid to fight anybody if somebody challenges me.  I think I'm a strong offensive player. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT