NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: CAPITALS v RED WINGS
June 16, 1998
Martin Lapointe
Mark Tinordi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  You guys looked down and out when it was 2-0, then you get back in the game to make it 2-1.  Lots of flurries for you guys as well towards the end of that period.  How tough was it to see them go up by two goals again?
 
MARK TINORDI:   It's frustrating because they have difficulty in the play when they have a two-goal lead.  But that's a predicament we're in right now and we have to find a way to persevere.  We've got to come out hard and can't hold back.  We've got to get our D involved.  We've got to be aggressive on the forecheck, persistent around the net and make an attempt to prolong the season right now.  That's what we're faced with, 20 minutes to keep on going here. 
 

Q.  Your sense from the bench and the locker room; do you guys have anything left for the third?
 
MARK TINORDI:   We've got a lot left. Obviously, we're frustrated.  We had a pretty good period.  We would have preferred today to come down 2-1 or tied 2-2, but we're facing a 3-1 deficit.  We've got to kill this penalty off and get to work.  You can't get frustrated.  You've got to find a way and get the job done.  This is a final opportunity to prolong the thing.  
 
Q.  When you talk about Detroit, you talk about Lapointe.  You're a goal ahead in a game like this that could win the Stanley Cup, you're 20 minutes away; is it going to go fast or is it going to seem like forever? 
 
MARTIN LAPOINTE:   It's going to seem like an eternity out there.  There's lots that can happen out there in the -- in a second, it can happen. 
 

Q.  You guys can crank it up and play offensive on your left wing.  How are you going to approach this period, defensively or try to get another killer goal here?
 
MARTIN LAPOINTE:   I think when we put a lot of pressure on them, I think that's our best defense. That's what we'll try to do.  There's 20 minutes left and -- but I think the guys are ready to start packing. 
 

Q.  Congratulations.  Good luck in the third period.

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT