BARRACUDA CHAMPIONSHIP
July 30, 2020
Adam Schenk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. You're in with +14 points; looked like a flawless scorecard out there.  Was the round as flawless as it looked on the card?
 ADAM SCHENK:   Yeah, had a couple nice par saves, which always makes it easier to add up these points.  You're not going backwards at all, and hit a couple wedges close and pretty much kept it out of trouble.  On this golf course you have to -- there is some room to drive the golf ball, but if you do drive it considerably off the fairway you can find some trouble, but I stayed away from that today.
 Q. You played this event once before at Montreux Golf Course, and coming here again, just the comparison, or how do you like this golf course?
 ADAM SCHENK:   Yeah, I liked the last golf course, and I like this one a little better, in my personal opinion.  But the format is fun to play, and I think everybody enjoys it.  You make just as many birdies as bogeys and still be positive for the day, so it is weird looking at the scoreboard and seeing minus 4 and it's not near the top of the leaderboard, so it's kind of strange.  It's just a fun format to play really.
 Q. You come in here ranked No. 110 on the FedExCup standings, only a couple of events to go.  How important is it for you to have a really good week this week and move up to get higher up in the points?
 ADAM SCHENK:   Yeah, it's definitely important.  I'm not in next week.  I'm not even sure if I can still qualify for next week.
 Q. You can with a win.
 ADAM SCHENK:   All right, so that would be great to change travel plans.  But a lot of golf, obviously, left to go.  But excited about today's round.
 Q. What did you excel at today, and what do you think maybe was a weakness if you had any today?
 ADAM SCHENK:   A weakness was I didn't take care of the par-5s on my back nine, which was the front nine, so I need to clean those up tomorrow.  I had a 6-iron in and had a 2-iron in on the other one and wasn't able to capitalize, so clean those up tomorrow, and hopefully do that, and something that I did well today, probably won't work as well today, I had a couple wedges go stymie, so that always helps when you don't have to putt those.
 Q. You mentioned there are a lot of opportunities in this format for eagles, so there's a couple of drivable par-4s and the par-5s are reachable.  How challenging is it when you have those opportunities and you don't take advantage of them?  How challenging is it for you mentally and for your patience?
 ADAM SCHENK:   You definitely feel like you go backwards a little bit, but like you said, there are so many of the reachable par-5s and the drivable par-4s.  You can't get them all, so when you don't get one it's important to make sure you're making par and not forcing the issue too much and going backwards, so I think that's when you really hurt yourself is when you go backwards on those holes.  You can't get them all, like I said, but just try and get most of them.  If you miss one, just try and get the next.
 Q. Playing in the early wave today, do you think the afternoon guys will have a better chance?  It looks like the wind is picking up a little bit, but with you going ahead in the afternoon tomorrow, how different do you think it'll be?
 ADAM SCHENK:   Yeah, the afternoon plays much more difficult.  We played nine holes yesterday in the afternoon, and it gets considerably windy, and trying to gauge the altitude with the wind, it can be tricky, and the golf course obviously will firm up in the afternoon.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT