JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 13, 2019
Adam Schenk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Adam, I would call that a fun Saturday, put yourself right in the mix of this tournament.  
ADAM SCHENK: It was.  Kept the ball in play, made a few timely putts, caught a few good breaks.  I think that was my first bogey-free in a while, so that's always nice.   
 Q.  The numbers were trending for you.  I thought your ball-striking numbers through 36 holes were really impressive.  I would say water finds its level with the putter, and you found birdies out there today.  
ADAM SCHENK: Yeah, my lag putting has been the best it's ever been this week.  Hit a lot of close putts that could go in, just like everybody else, and had a couple that did go in today, and the ones that were longer that didn't go in, we were really close, so I had a lot of tap-ins, so a little more stress-free.   
 Q.  You grew up watching this event, a lot of Midwestern vibes here, it's comfortable, nice people, all that fun stuff.  How special is this week for you to play well?  
ADAM SCHENK: Yeah, it's great.  Being from a farm, we've always had John Deere tractors, always been a big fan of the tournament, always watched it on TV, looked forward to it, and yeah, just go and have some fun tomorrow.  Hopefully it's a special day, but it'll be good regardless.   
 Q.  It's a crowded leaderboard out there.  Talk about your day and kind of the fun and craziness that goes on out there.  
ADAM SCHENK: It is, yeah.  I saw it a couple times, and I remember from years past there's always a bunch of volatility at the top.  You make a couple bogeys or a couple birdies you move up a lot of spots.  So yeah, it was a lot of fun.  With as good as the greens are and as good as a condition as the course it in, you know you have to play well, and if you get off to a nice start and take care of the par-5s you should have a chance to have a pretty good round.   
 Q.  When you have the heat and the conditions and the greens and everybody else around you, is it hard to focus on what you do and is that what you have to do is kind of focus on yourself instead of what else is going on?  
ADAM SCHENK: It is, and some weeks you do better at it than others, and this is one week where I've been doing better than I have in the past, so hopefully that continues tomorrow.   
 Q.  What is it about this week and this round and especially today that that worked for you?  
ADAM SCHENK: Just been keeping the ball in play a little better and been eliminating the bogeys.  I think I've only got maybe two or three bogeys through the first 54.  The course isn't too firm, and with the heat and how good the greens are, you can hit a bunch of greens and keep it in play, you're going to have a lot of birdie looks and you should be able to shoot some good numbers.   
 Q.  How much were you guys kind of feeding off each other?  It seemed like you were kind of matching each other's birdies for a few holes.  
ADAM SCHENK: Exactly.  I figured out, out here on TOUR, it's a lot more fun and beneficial to play with a playing partner that is playing well, and they might be beating you by three or four if they're 5- or 6-under, but that raises your level of play, as well.   
 Q.  What's your mindset going into tomorrow?  Obviously it's probably going to be a similar Sunday to what the Saturday was.  
ADAM SCHENK: Just the cliché, keep doing the same things and keep the ball in play and hit a lot of greens.  I've hit a lot of good putts this week, and hopefully get a couple longer ones to fall and make the shorter ones tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT