THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 2, 2019
Adam Schenk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. When did you find out about what happened yesterday, and were you aware at any point that your caddie might have made an infraction?
ADAM SCHENK: I had no idea until probably 40 minutes before I teed off this morning.  They pulled me aside on the range in the ball area and kind of showed me what happened and assessed me a two-shot penalty from yesterday.
Q. They showed you on an iPhone, iPad?
ADAM SCHENK: It was an iPhone, I believe, yeah.
Q. And who was it that showed it to you?
ADAM SCHENK: I'm not exactly sure of the official's name.
Q. And did they tell you how they found out about it?
ADAM SCHENK: No, I'm not sure.  I'm guessing someone sent it in or just coverage from TV.  I'm not exactly sure.
Q. What was the first thing that went through your mind?
ADAM SCHENK: You know, I broke the rule, so the intention was never to cheat, obviously.  I really don't know.  I haven't had much time to think about it.  I had probably 15 minutes more to warm up after that and played nicely today under the circumstances.  Now you just try and forget about the whole thing, really, but what's done is done, I guess.  Just try to forget about it really.
Q. I was there at 17 yesterday, you were playing with Erik and José.  You had a really tough lie, took a lot of time trying to get settled in that bunker.  Was Mark saying anything to you?
ADAM SCHENK: We were just talking about probably chunking it in front of us in the bunker to leave myself a decent chance to get up-and-down for bogey.  So if I hit it long on the green, was probably going to roll off in the water, so we were just talking about chunking it in front of us or leaving it in the rough or the bunker, so that's what we were talking about.
Q. It never occurred to you that he was behind -- he walks away and --
ADAM SCHENK: Yeah, I haven't seen the video.  I don't even know if he was exactly behind me or close.  I don't even know.  There wasn't a great place for him to stand there because if he was right, he was in the bunker.
Q. What was that discussion like with him this morning once he found out about it?
ADAM SCHENK: You know, I just -- I was upset.  I felt like I was polite.  But I was just asking questions, and after a couple questions I was just like, I'm just going to get a two-shot penalty, so I might as well just go warm up, and I was like, yeah.
Q. What about with your caddie?
ADAM SCHENK: Yeah, I just told him let's just forget about it and just try and play a good round of golf, and sometimes I get upset, I play better, and I shot a couple under today, so maybe I would have played worse if I didn't have the penalty.
Q. How quick were you able to forget about it?
ADAM SCHENK: I never forgot about it, I just tried to put it out of my mind.  I knew if you still played a good round of golf and it was playing hard, you could still make up a lot of progress, and fortunately did that.
Q. Would you rather have not known?
ADAM SCHENK: I was going to find out at some point or another, so might as well find out sooner rather than later.
Q. Is this just one of the many rules, kind of controversies that have been going on since the new rules came into play in 2019.  What are the conversations that you've been having with your fellow player friends about the rules, and is this one of them that concerns you, if any?
ADAM SCHENK: Some conversation, but you know, the rule changes are what they are.  They're fine.  Everybody has got to play by them, and I just unfortunately didn't.  But like I said, the intention was never to cheat, and sometimes the rules are a little more lenient in that way like with the putter against your chest.  I can't think of anything really off the top of my head.  Or maybe there's not any.  But just probably never do it again.
Q. Were you aware when it happened, I think Denny McCarthy was penalized in Phoenix --
ADAM SCHENK: Oh, yeah.
Q. -- and it was rescinded?  You knew about that incident?
ADAM SCHENK: Yeah, I was friends with Denny and saw it all over social media and saw the thing with Rickie and maybe there was a video with Justin Thomas, I'm not sure.  I never saw that one, but I saw the one with Rickie, and that's why they changed the rule from there, because Denny and his caddie, their intention was not to line him up, and that was kind of the same way with mine and Mark's.  The intention was never to line me up.  You could see that, I was fried egg on the side of a bunker.  But just a different situation because I guess Denny did back off and I didn't, but that was never the intention.
Q. You said earlier that after you asked a couple questions, it was clear that you were going to get a penalty no matter what.  Do you believe you deserved a penalty?
ADAM SCHENK: I mean, I guess technically by the rule, I did, and Denny by the rule deserved a penalty, as well.  But I don't think Denny should have been penalized, and I don't think Rickie should have been penalized.  And me personally, I mean, I guess I did break the rule, so I guess I should be penalized.  But you know, you just can't hope for leniency, just probably never do it again.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT