RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 26, 2018
Adam Schenk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Nicely done today, great start, five birdies off the bat and finished with three birdies to end.  What was going right for you today?
ADAM SCHENK: Just made a lot of putts today.  I drew a different line on my golf ball and just got it going, kept it in play and made some putts.  I don't know the amount of feet of putts today, but it had to be my best all season.
Q. Golf course is a little soft; what was the key as far as what you needed to do in order to put yourself in those good positions?
ADAM SCHENK: Well, if you were in the fairway, it was much easier to attack, but you could still play from the rough, so I did that too often today but was fortunate to get away with it.  But if you can get within 20 feet of the hole, you're going to make some putts, especially in the morning.  The greens are very smooth.  In the afternoon, they'll get a little more bumpy, but in the morning you can make some putts.
Q. You're a rookie on the PGA TOUR this season.  Currently you stand at 153rd on the FedExCup points list.  You know all the scenarios.  You've got four weeks left, five tournaments.  What are the things that you've learned this year that you're going to try to implement the last four weeks?
ADAM SCHENK: I need to start hitting it a little bit straighter.  I've been -- good ones are as good as anybody's, but my bad ones are not where they need to be, so I did a better job today of keeping it in play.  There's not as many tough tee shots on this golf course.  Probably a second-shot golf course, and you just need to make some putts.  But as for a whole on the PGA TOUR, I need to start hitting it a little straighter, and I did that today and made some putts.
Q. You had success on the Web.com TOUR, which got you to the PGA TOUR.  Has anything surprised you this season?
ADAM SCHENK: No.  I mean, everyone kind of told me what I was getting myself into, and after a few events you kind of figure it out.  But the rough is long.  You hit it straight, you hit your wedges close and putt, you'll be all right, but if you don't do some of those things good, you're going to struggle.
Q. Maybe just take us through the round today.  Tremendous start to this tournament.  How are you feeling?
ADAM SCHENK: Feeling nice.  Like I said, I drew a new mark on my golf ball today, and for putting it, it lined up well and seemed to make about everything.  Kept it in play for the most part, and like I said, I started with five birdies, so that always helps.  The back side is probably easier with the par-5s, so if you can capitalize on those holes, you can shoot another good score on the back nine.  That was kind of my goal was to forget about the front nine and just go for it on the nine back.
Q. What was kind of your first impressions of the golf course here?  Did you think it kind of fit your eye?
ADAM SCHENK: I liked it.  I played the first day with Jonas and Harris English.  I didn't make a single birdie.  I thought it was kind of hard.  We teed off in the afternoon.  It was windy.  But I feel like most of the golf courses out here, they seem pretty hard the first time you play them.  Then you play them again, then they get a little easier each time.  You know, to start with five birdies was nice after not making any birdies in the practice round.
Q. Did you see any of the other low scores coming off the board as you were walking around today and realize I need to put the pedal down?
ADAM SCHENK: Yeah, I saw I was maybe top 5 after starting with five birdies, and then we go to 5, 6, 7, 8, and I think I saw Robert Garrigus shot 9-under, so I mean, there's going to be some good scores in the afternoon, as well.  The greens are obviously smoother in the morning, but there will still be some good scores in the afternoon.  With the soft conditions and the playable rough, you do need to keep it going.
Q. You're outside the Top 125 in the FedExCup right now, but how important is having a good week to move forward?
ADAM SCHENK: Yeah, it's really important.  Running out of weeks.  I think this is the first time y'all have interviewed me, so need to start playing a little better, but today is a nice start in that direction.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT