ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
February 7, 2011
Steve Donahue
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


   THE MODERATOR: We're joined by Boston College head college Steve Donahue. Coach, a few comments about your team, then we'll open it up for questions. 
 COACH DONAHUE: We had a very important win for our program on Saturday after taking a hit pretty hard versus Carolina, really came in and gave us a great game, really took it to us. I was really proud of our guys how we bounced back, in particular defensively. It's been something obviously we need to get better at. I think the guys really took some personal pride in that and did a very good job against a very talented Virginia Tech team. 
 Now we have Clemson. It gets no easier in this league, in particular on the road. Brad is doing a great job with his team. Extremely disciplined. Fundamentally sound on both sides of the ball. We got to do a great job. 
 THE MODERATOR: We'll open it up for questions. 

 Q. Can you talk about Reggie Jackson's situation. Obviously in the Duke game you took him out of the starting lineup. How has he responded to that? Is he giving you now what you were hoping to find when you made that move? 
 COACH DONAHUE: You know what, I think people read a little too much into what coaches do - at least what I do with starting lineups. If you look, Reggie's minutes haven't changed one bit. 
 What I'm trying to do is have all the guys understand how I value practice and how important it is. Reggie did not practice particularly well in the meantime. A couple guys really did. 
 The other thing that goes into it, sometimes I just need to see what's best for us at different times. I was disappointed in Reggie's practice for a couple days. In reality I've been very pleased with everything he's given since I've gotten here. I think I need to continually push him and motivate him to get better because, one, I think he has unbelievable potential, and two, it makes our team that much better. 
 Reggie's responded very well. I thought he had a great second half against Virginia Tech, his best defensive game by far. He did a lot of little things in that game that really helped us win that basketball game. 

 Q. You played Duke and North Carolina back-to-back. With their game coming up, a focus of attention, can you give us any critique? What do you see as the keys to the game? 
 COACH DONAHUE: Oh, man, I was honestly very impressed with both teams. We got Duke at home. They did such a great job that game in terms of moving the basketball, playing at such a great tempo. I think when they get that going, with their skill level, how hard they play, if they get the offensive tempo going, they're making shots, they're very difficult to beat. 
 That being said, I don't know if there's a more talented team 1 through 10 in the country than Carolina. I just was overwhelmed by their ability to sprint the floor, nine guys coming at you at all times. You make a mistake, it's two points down the other end. 
 That being said, if you control the tempo a little bit, you do things that Duke can do, then I think it minimizes those advantages that Carolina has. That's why it's athletics. 
 I imagine it will be a great basketball game. Both teams have their pluses and they're going to try to play to those strengths. 

 Q. Did Corey end up going to the Super Bowl? Do you know what happened there? 
 COACH DONAHUE: He did not. He did not go to the Super Bowl. Our schedule just didn't allow it. We had a practice yesterday. He understood that going in, that he wasn't going to be able to make it when he saw that out there. 
 You know what, he's been very excited obviously for BJ, now that the Packers won. I think all of us here at Boston College are very proud of what he's done. I've been very pleased with Corey's ability to stay focused on what we're doing, practicing hard, really enjoying his brother's success, but at the same time understanding how important his job is here. 

 Q. Did you have a get-together of any kind as a team? 
 COACH DONAHUE: You know what, I'm sure those guys did. I know they were talking about it. Once again, they see enough of me. They don't need me at their Super Bowl party. 

 Q. Your whistling, I wanted to get more in depth on that. I know you mentioned it was in seventh grade you realized you had that skill. 
 COACH DONAHUE: Yeah, I did. This is embarrassing (laughter). It's pretty funny. 
 Yeah, I mean, I somehow figured out how to whistle during a practice. The coach kicked me out of practice. What the heck you doing whistling during my practice? He had every right. But I obviously picked up a skill. I don't know exactly how I do it. It's worked well in my profession anyway. 

 Q. You don't find that the kids are tuning you out, while trying to play defense, it's a distraction? Has anyone ever said, I can't focus when you're whistling so much?
 COACH DONAHUE: Sometimes I don't realize I do it so much until I watch the film and I hear the whistle. I honestly don't even know I do it that much. They probably tune it out more than I think. 
 However, I can get their attention even in loud arenas, and they give me a look. They can look over without breaking their stance, doing something. I don't have to yell. I can do a sign, a signal, something like that. I'm glad I have the skill. I probably abuse it though, for sure.

 Q. Are there different whistles that mean different things?
 COACH DONAHUE: That's what another guy was saying (laughter). I wish I could do it. I can do it. But I don't know if my guys would say if I do that long 1-2, like Morse code, I probably could. But I have never tried that. 

 Q. I assume Gabe is okay. He got poked in the eye the other day? 
 COACH DONAHUE: He did. He got smacked in the eye. It was bruised pretty good under the eye. I thought he did a very good job for us. He's actually one of our best on-ball defenders. I think he competes throughout possessions defensively. He's another obviously good ball-handler for us to have. We need him. I've been pleased with his progress throughout this ACC season. 
 THE MODERATOR: Coach, thanks for taking time being with us today. We'll hear from you same time next week. 
 COACH DONAHUE: Thank you. 
 THE MODERATOR: That concludes today's basketball teleconference. Thank you for taking part. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT