ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 15, 2013
Ryan Anderson
Steve Donahue
Olivier Hanlan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Miami: 69
  Boston College: 58 
  
COACH DONAHUE:   I thought we played a really good basketball game, I was proud of our guys, we hung tough.   We had a couple of injuries, with Eddie going down I thought that hurt our defense but you give Miami credit we couldn't stop 'em in the second half for the most part and that was the difference in the game.   They got what they wanted and I was proud of what we did and how hard we worked and competed really hard and played smart.   Fortunately, to beat a team like Miami you got to play great, we didn't make foul shots and turned the ball over in key spots but besides that I was proud of our effort.   
   
 Q.   The way your team ended the season and especially the regular season, overcoming the deficit today to play with Miami and be tied with three minutes to go.   How do you feel about that?   
COACH DONAHUE:   I think when I take a step back I will be extremely pleased and proud of our players.   These guys have done a tremendous job of working through a lot of things our scholarship players and our freshmen and sophomores.   I felt we did an incredible job starting to play and believe and compete and it's ‑‑ to be honest, I'm pleased with the development of our program.   
   
 Q.   Coach, your kids played nose‑to‑nose with the number one seed.   How did it get away from you in the end?   
COACH DONAHUE:   I think the last three minutes is basically a three‑minute game.   One of the things we pride ourselves on is being at the line taking the two points, and that didn't happen.   But I thought in that game we didn't execute.   We did a poor job.   I said to these guys, "Winners want the truth.   That's the truth.   You wanna win that badly you have to execute," and we didn't.  
  
 Q.   Another step or a next step in the proceeding is the ability to finish games.   Miami is a team that's matured and I think they have finished 13‑3; that's how it works sometimes.   
COACH DONAHUE:   Unfortunately‑‑ and I said this to the guys in the locker room‑‑ to get where you want to get to you're going to have to do excruciating, frustrating failures to figure out how to get better.   
We've done an incredible job in tight games, we had so many this year more than my 13 years combined in my coaching career just in this year so they had a ton of that.   I don't think it was necessarily inexperience, I give Miami credit.   I think they guarded well and we didn't do a great job for a stretch there and honestly I didn't feel good going down the stretch because we played well for about 20 minutes there and over the last seven or eight just didn't seem like we had that same execution going.   
   
 Q.   I would like to ask the players, Ryan and Olivier what do you think were the determining factors in the last three minutes?   
OLIVIER HANLAN:   I think we had mental breakdowns, I had a breakdown in defense I was supposed to switch out on Shane Larkin and I messed up on that.   Like I said, it's the little things that make us‑‑ or hurt us.   
RYAN ANDERSON:   I think it was the mental breakdown at the end of the game.   I don't know if it was metal fatigue but we messed up on rotations and finishing things and making free‑throws, so a lot of the things they beat us on at the end.   
   
 Q.   Ryan, it looked on your face like you knew the game was that close and things weren't going your way.       
RYAN ANDERSON:   I thought I made two key plays at the end, and I didn't get the ball and go up strong.   I just didn't do that on those last two plays and those are key points and the momentum turned down the stretch.   
   
 Q.   Even today, do you feel like there was an emphasis on the performance you had yesterday?   
OLIVIER HANLAN:   I was out there trying to make plays.   Miami did a terrific job on me, and I had a hard time.   I could have done more today, but I had a bad game.   
COACH DONAHUE:   I don't think you had a bad game, I think it's pretty great play on his part.   He got his average, shot a high percentage, did a terrific job and the play he was referring to, no one in this room knew his responsibility to get out of the screen.   He didn't have to mention that.   I thought he handled his playing well and we played off things well.   The last few minutes of execution is why they're really good and why we're trying to get there.   And I didn't mention Eddie's ankle.   Eddie has been a real difference to us over the last month and a half particularly over the defensive end.   He gives us easy buckets on the offensive end but, he's someone we can switch out easily and that's why we're switching Larkin's ball screens because Eddie is the one doing it.   When we don't have him, I think it's difficult.   We lost in transition with having our two bigs out there and obviously small at times, and we would have loved to have had him healthy the whole game.   
   
 Q.   When it was 57‑55 you called time‑out, what did you set up?   And Olivier, what did happen at mid court when they trapped?   
COACH DONAHUE:   We knew they were going to trap and we did what we call pocket passes, they were taking that away, beg your pardon doing what we call a Butler action, quick reversal out of the trap and I think Shane and the other defender did a better job and got in to "O" at that point and that's what we're talking about.   
We wanted that trap to get it out of there and then we have four shooters around and we spread it out and get a good look.   
OLIVIER HANLAN:   We were trying to get the Butler, and I was not strong enough with the ball so I turned it over.   That was the play.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.     
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT