EMAAR-MGF INDIAN MASTERS
February 8, 2008
Henrik Buhrmann
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   SHENTON GOMEZ:  Good job, 6-under after two days, you must be quite pleased with your round.   
 HENRIK BUHRMANN:  Thank you, I'm pleased.  I didn't play good but I really played good for this golf course.  I knew what I needed to play to play pretty good, not taking chances and stuff like that.  I'm happy, thanks.   
 SHENTON GOMEZ:  What's been the key for you the past two days?   
 HENRIK BUHRMANN:  Keep the ball in play.  I mean, for the last 13 years I've been playing here coming out here, you just know, you've got to keep the ball in play.   
 The setup of the course now, it's easier than ever before because the fairways are soft.  They have a little rough up on the side, which helps your ball stay in play more than ever before which makes it even easier for me.  It plays a bit longer but you just use longer clubs in, which I don't mind that.   
 SHENTON GOMEZ:  India seems to be a good playing ground for you, you won here before on the Asian Tour.   
 HENRIK BUHRMANN:  Yeah, I won in Mumbai.  And before that, I had Inderpal as my caddy -- I finished third here at the Indian Open, and then he went over there and caddied for me the next year and I won, which I had a good record.  He reads the greens good.  We both understand the game a little bit which is nice.   
  
  Q.  The course has been the talking point this week. How do you feel about this course?   
 HENRIK BUHRMANN:  When I saw this venue was going to be on The European Tour, I thought it was the best thing for a lot of reasons.  Firstly, that, you now, I think it's a totally different style of golf that most of the Europeans or modern golfers haven't played yet, which is classic old-style.  You've got to hit it straight.  Length is not everything, but you do hit it off the tee, the driver, you're going to get rewarded.   
 It's a well-disciplined golf course, and I think it's unique, and I'm glad actually it's happening.  But it's unfortunate the weather is not good.  When we play in the summer or towards after summer, I think the course is in fantastic condition, the greens are superb, which The European Tour haven't seen the course on it's best which is a pity, but I still think it's a fair test of golf.   
 You know, it's a big pity that it is not, like I said -- because it's a fantastic golf course.  I like to come here, I like the food and I like the golf course, really.   
  
  Q. What does it take to do well here?   
 HENRIK BUHRMANN:  As you look at the past here what happened, it's really going to happen the third and the fourth day, and I think more the guys who are going to take a chance and at the top of his game, he's going to come up top, which obviously he's going to putt well.  But I'm still thinking it's more of a hitting golf course, keep your ball in play, the more you take chances, the more you are actually going to get rewarded.   
 If you can actually keep that for the next 36 holes, I figure you're going to do well.  If you look at Jyoti, there are guys who play well here always, and you see there's some great examples how to do it.  He's very good and he's very strong on this golf course.  He's probably had his bad day today and he's always a guy to look out for I think.   
  
  Q.  What's your strategy heading into the weekend?   
 HENRIK BUHRMANN:  You know, I think especially me, it's getting to -- you're not going to take a chance in the way of going aggressive.  You're going to play as your gut feeling, you're going to get on a tee and you feel good about the wind, you're going to go driver.  Otherwise you're going to keep it in play, all depends where the flag is.   
 I think all through the years, I would say aggressive/conservative is the strategy and that's what I'm going to try to do, very aggressive but very conservative at the same time.  So you're going to choose a shot and you're going to play aggressive, you might hit a 2-iron off the tee, but aggressive.   
  
  Q.  When was your first ever outing in India?   
 HENRIK BUHRMANN:  It was in 1998 at the Classic Indian Open.   
  
  Q.  Was wind a factor today?   
 HENRIK BUHRMANN:  Yes, it was very cold, actually I feel the cold -- of course we're not used to playing in the cold.  It was pretty cool, and the winds do actually make a difference, especially down the tree line and above that it moves your ball a little bit around.  You can see the scoring this morning, nothing spectacular out there because it's difficult to get your clubs right and it's playing a little bit longer and at the same time the wind is spraying it all over the shop.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT