MOUNTAIN WEST CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 10, 2006
Brad Jones
Steve McClain
Derek Wabbington
Justin Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
 COACH STEVE McCLAIN:  Well, I thought, you know, once again the kids fought through.  I thought both teams at times looked a little tired.   
 But we got a nice lead.  We kept our lead.  When they made their run, they never got it back to a point where the pressure was on us.  You know, they did a good job, once again, of setting screens, moving the basketball.  You know, we were missing a few free-throws, then Justin kind of started us making 'em, then Brad and Brandon kind of finished it off.   
 You know, once again, a very good team effort out of everybody.   
  
  Q.  Justin, did you know you needed those free-throws to get your triple?   
 JUSTIN WILLIAMS:  No.  I never pay attention to things like that.  Last game I could have shot -- a couple games back, I could have did that.  You know, I just don't pay attention.  I just play hard till the end of the buzzer.   
  Q.  When did you find out you had the triple?   
 JUSTIN WILLIAMS:  I looked up on the Jumbotron while Brandon was shooting free-throws and I seen it (smiling).   
  Q.  Justin, could you just talk about your game, especially blocked shots and rebounding.   
 JUSTIN WILLIAMS:  I mean, that's just what I bring to the table.  That's why Coach McClain brought me here, was to rebound and blocks shots.  I didn't go out trying to score.  I just wanted to do whatever it was I needed to do to help my team get to the championship.   
  Q.  Brad, you spent a lot of time driving down the lane.  Is that sort of part of the game plan for you, to get to the basket like that?   
 BRAD JONES:  Yes, sir.  Coach did a nice job of telling the bigs that if me and Brandon get around the guards, just seal (indiscernible).  They did a great job of doing that.  We had easy looks.   
  Q.  Brad, last week against Utah, you guys got off to a slow start.  What did you do tonight differently?   
 BRAD JONES:  Well, coach did a great job of getting us ready for the game plan, showing us their sets, showing us what they're going to do on defense and offense.  We just knew we had to be the aggressor, to come out and play hard from the jump and get the lead.   
  Q.  Brad, second half looked like they were spreading the middle for you.  What was going on there?   
 BRAD JONES:  Like I said, coach did a great job of telling the bigs that if we got past their guards, just to hold the seal on the big man, so we could get those easy layups and all.  I owe it to these two guys.  They seen me being my man.  They just held the seal.  I got to the goal and finished the layup.  Just trying to do my job to help us win.   
  Q.  Justin and Derek, where are you guys drawing motivation?  You're really hitting your stride right now.   
 DEREK WABBINGTON:  Well, we're just getting it from each other.  You know, our coach always tells us when we're on the road, all we have is each other.  We just feed off of that.   
 JUSTIN WILLIAMS:  I think, you know, coach told us, you know, before the first game, you know, we only have 40 minutes left.  I think we really embraced that as a team.  Just went out and played for 40 minutes.   
  Q.  Derek, tell me about Nevill getting those early fouls, how important that was.  Was that kind of a goal?   
 DEREK WABBINGTON:  You know, our coach just told us to go out there and be aggressive and be physical with him.  That's what we tried to do.  You know, luckily he did pick up his early fouls and they had to go to their bench.  We just attacked from there.   
  Q.  What did it mean to have those fans tonight?   
 JUSTIN WILLIAMS:  It meant a lot to us.  It's a real great spirit going around right now, Cowboy pride.  You kind of felt it yesterday after the game, after we went into the crowd and just said our hellos to our people.   
 That's really lifting us up right there.  This is almost like it's a home game for us with all these fans we got out here.  So, I mean, those Cowboy fans, they're great fans.  We've been saying it from the beginning.  If they keep coming out and supporting us, the sky's the limit.   
 BRAD JONES:  Like Justin said, it's a great atmosphere, just like we're playing a home game.  Coach always said, show them we're the hardest playing team for them.  We just try to play hard for them and get a victory.   
 DEREK WABBINGTON:  I just add to what they said.  It's just big.  We didn't have the greatest year, and they're still coming out and supporting us.  It just really means a lot to everybody on the team.   
  
  Q.  First time it was overtime, and on the conference call this week you said you kind of ran into a buzz saw.  What do you expect tomorrow night?  Going back to the fan base, I don't know if it gives you an edge, but you can count on the encouragement of those people.   
 COACH STEVE McCLAIN:  And I think when you're playing three nights in a row, maybe if we can get a little luck, that crowd can give us some energy, give us something that will take it over the top.   
 But, you know, the respect I have for what Steve Fisher has done this year.  There isn't any question about their talent level.  There isn't any question about the job he's done coaching that team.   
 You know, I didn't think we were at our best tonight.  We'll have to be at our best.  We'll have to do everything perfect to have an opportunity to win the game.   
 But, you know, when you get to this time of year, it's about getting to play one more.  Again, that's where I go back to San Diego State, people question whether they should be in the NCAA tournament.  They won the league outright and now they're in the championship game.  They shouldn't even have to worry about being in the NCAA tournament.   
 I think the fun part will be, it's going to be two teams that are going to lay it on the line, and hopefully show people throughout the country what Mountain West Conference basketball is.   
 I think it all proves that, once again, when you start thinking about all the players on San Diego State, Wyoming, Utah, Vegas, the number of young players that are making these games happen, you know, how good is this league going to be a year from now?   
 But, you know, hopefully our fans are going to help us out a little bit tomorrow night.   
  Q.  Did you see something before the game in Justin's eyes, anything Utah was doing that foretold you he was going to have a monster game on the defensive end?   
 COACH STEVE McCLAIN:  I think, one, we changed it up a little bit and we didn't have him guard Nevill the whole time.  We had Wab guard him.  We had Chris Anderson guard him.  But then Justin could go guard him.  He's such a different defender, it created, you know, blocked shots, it created other things.   
 You know, again, these kids have taken their hits, yet the last game of the year they were playing as hard as they could.  I think, you know, this senior group wants to still be remembered for something.  They're playing.  I don't see a bunch of guys that are tired and ready for it to be over.   
 An old coach told me a long time ago, he said, "Steve, come this time of year, teams that want it to be over, it's usually over."  And I don't think this group wants it to be over.   
  Q.  You're aware that in the past in this tournament, San Diego State won it all I think as a five, Colorado State as a 6.  Do you think as a 7 it is kind of your destiny this year?   
 COACH STEVE McCLAIN:  I don't know.  You know, if Steve and them want to let it be, I'd sure like it.  You know, it's one thing about our league, the champion of the league has had a hard time ever winning the conference tournament.   
 I just think, more than anything, it says something about the depth in our conference.  You know, I read where somebody wrote that, you know, they thought this was a mediocre league.  I don't think you can be the eighth ranked conference in the country and be a called a mediocre league.   
 If we were 18th or 19th, maybe you'd call us a mediocre league.  But we're right there with the Big-12, the Big-10.  I just think it says something about the depth and the coaches in this league, the respect they have for each other, the programs, and what they're doing.   
  Q.  You have said all year that you're right there, on the verge of being a top team in this league.  Do you feel like you have maybe gotten past that now and are at the point where you are just there?   
 COACH STEVE McCLAIN:  You know, I think the kids are playing with a lot of confidence.  This group of kids hasn't had a lot good happen for 'em.  You know, they've had people take shots at 'em.   
 I think Wab said it best.  I teach kids in life, "Control what you can control; don't worry about what anybody else is saying; don't worry about what they're doing; you control what you can control."  And they've believed that.  They've kept getting better.  So, you know, again, we're playing for a championship.  No matter what anybody wants to say about our program, this will be three out of eight years that my program has played for a championship.  We've won two championships outright, and we'll play for the third one this year, with some pretty young players.   
 I think, you know, to answer your question even simpler, they believe in what we're doing.  They're going to try to lay it out there for 40 more minutes.  They're laying it out there for 40 more minutes.   
 I went back and used a Billy Tubbs.  When I left the other day, I brought one suit.  If you notice, I'm wearing the same clothes I wore last night.  I'm going to wear 'em again tomorrow night.  Because about eight years ago, we went to Vegas, and Billy said before we left, "One suit."  I said, "What do you mean one suit?"  He said, "One suit.  Any time you pack for more days, you don't get to stay.  Let's pack for one day and maybe we'll stay."   
 Well, we stayed four nights.  I packed for one day.  We're going to play another night.  Again, I couldn't be prouder of these kids.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT