WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 17, 2014
Fredrik Jacobson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You played like a warrior out there today.   The birdies, three of whom, the eagle at No. 5 and then just that last bogey at 18, so tough.  
FREDDIE JACOBSON:   It really sucks when you play solid all day and you know, I really thought it was my day today coming in, just really starting to click with my swing, at least with my iron play so I felt like I've been giving myself a ton of chances this week and knowing I roll it pretty good, so I would have a good chance.   
Did just that but didn't catch my second shot from 18 from the down slope, caught it a little thin, didn't get enough height for getting up on the green.   Actually a pretty accessible pin.   All I needed was a solid strike to get up there and good feed in and have a good chance at winning.  
   
 Q.   How much fun was that charge on the back-9 when you started making those birdies?   It was great to watch.  
FREDDIE JACOBSON:   It was great fun.   I knew on 15 I had to get an up and down from the bunker there to kind of get back in it.   Thought I needed a couple more coming in.   We both birdied 16, he made a great putt, I made mine afterwards, both getting to 17, kind of sucks with both of us being in the fairway on 17 with a wedge in the hand, finishing bogey/bogey, I finished par/bogey from the fairway on both holes.   Wish I could have done a little more but it's a good effort.  
   
 Q.   You played great Freddie, thank you.  
FREDDIE JACOBSON:   Thank you.  
   
 Q.   Freddie, what do you take away from Greensboro, the fact that you put yourself in position at least get to a playoff.   What happened on 18?  
FREDDIE JACOBSON:   Yeah, I mean I really fancied my chances coming in today, 2nd, 3rd round play really solid, my iron play was getting really good.   A course like this, that's what you need.   Kept firing with the irons pretty good and rolling it pretty good all day.   
You know, I did what I had to do on 15 and 16, getting a couple of birdies there, thought I needed one more.   Good tee ball on 17 with a wedge in my hand, couldn't get it close enough there.   18, good tee shot again and pretty accessible pin actually.   Pulled it thin from the downhill, couldn't get up enough to clear the front.   
Kind of got up short and it was a tricky putt from there having the humps running away.   You hit it too soft, it goes way right, firm, goes long.   Wasn't quite sure how to hit that thing but, yeah.   It kind of sucks when you put yourself in the position, you get a good chance, yeah, but at least big progress in my game.   Take a couple days off and go at it again.  
   
 Q.   Not many weeks you shoot 16-under par and you don't win.   You guys kind of knew you had to go super low today.  
FREDDIE JACOBSON:   Yeah.   I mean I kind of thought around 16, 17, around there, 18, maybe.   My goal for the back-9, I was hoping to shoot 4-under on the back-9.   I had it 3-under through 16, needed one down the last two which would have worked out just fine but hit the fairways but just didn't hit my iron shots the way -- little too far away on 17 and 18, caught it thin from the downhill slope and couldn't clear the front.   
All I needed to do was have a solid strike and feed in there nicely, could use the right bank.   Didn't quite catch it and then it was really tough from there.   Would have been a great two-putt if I could get it down in 2.   Can't leave it there.  
   
 Q.   18, that's a tough finishing hole?  
FREDDIE JACOBSON:   I went with 3-wood.   I knew where the pin was.   I figured if even I had the 6-iron coming in, main thing for me was to hit the fairway so I could have a shot at the green and kind of try to feed it in for that back left pin.   Did the first half, didn't catch my second shot and I caused enough trouble to get my 4.   Kind of sucks.  
   
 Q.   With the number already on the board, talk about chasing coming in.  
FREDDIE JACOBSON:   Well, I actually didn't know what it was.   I didn't really look.   So, I didn't know who was at 17 or, you know, where we were at exactly.   I was just trying to hit the good shot and get a birdie at the last.   That's all trying to do.  
   
 Q.   What did you hit into 18?  
FREDDIE JACOBSON:   I hit a 6.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT