TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 23, 2012
Fredrik Jacobson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   I love the fact that this wasn't your best golf, but you come up here, you hear the music.   Is that the sign that you know what, you can't changed what happened today, but you can get ready for tomorrow?
FREDRIK JACOBSON:   Yeah, I think so.   I mean I was after all, happy the way I finished down the last couple of holes.   I made a great putt on 17 for a 5, which is not what you're hoping to have on a 6‑footer swinging hard left to right, but I made that one.   I made a bogey at the last. 
Certainly happy of being three behind coming into tomorrow than five or six.   You know, I'll take the positives out of that.   We all had a little bit of a rough time.   An evil cloud came in around the ninth hole, and it was blowing really hard, and everybody in the group kind of struggled for 20, 30 minutes and we all lost like two, three shots at that time.   So kind of a little bit of ‑‑ lost a little bit of momentum there and kind of had to fight my way from there to the finish line today.

Q.   You know, people forget about stuff like that, because everyone says this is such an easy course for you guys and stuff.   But there are tricky parts to it as well, and then when the wind changes like it did today, it can make it kind of a difficult course, can't it?
FREDRIK JACOBSON:   Yeah.   I thought those holes were really tough there around the green on 9, 10, 11 when we were playing them.   It was strong winds and then it laid down.   It wasn't very long.   But on the 10th hole, certainly it caused trouble for me and the other guys in the group.

Q.   I know there is a mental game, and I asked you the other day about knowing how to close it out, and the fact that it was here, will you draw on any of that?   Will you think tomorrow through your round or think tomorrow morning and prepare yourself?   Will you try and take yourself back a little bit to last year?
FREDRIK JACOBSON:   Well, I hope I will draw from it.   I do feel good about the course.   Obviously I like it here.   I've had great support from the fans this week and enjoy it and hopefully can play a little more solid tomorrow than I did today and make a few more putts and get something going.

Q.   The way you ended today may be a continuation tomorrow hopefully?
FREDRIK JACOBSON:   Yeah, I'm hoping.   I hope so.   It's a course where there will always be some low scores, so I gotta shoot a really good number to give myself a chance tomorrow.   That's the bottom line.   I gotta play really good golf.

Q.   Can you take me through No. 10 real quick?
FREDRIK JACOBSON:   Do you want to end on that note? 

Q.   No.   I'm going to ask you which club you hit on 18, too.   I was going to finish up with that one. 
FREDRIK JACOBSON:   All right.   You're a fine man.   (Laughs). 
Well, 10, the wind was kind of swirling and blowing the hardest there.   I was in between driver or 3‑wood from the tee.   Picked the driver, tried to keep it down, but it went up in the wind and just sailed way off to the right.   Had to chip out from there.   And hit a poor third shot to the left of the green.   It was laying up against two rocks down there in the slope with bushes and stuff.   I was really fortunate to get that on the green and actually get a putt for the 5, which was pretty close.   But after all, the tee shot could have gone out of bounds.   So I guess the six was kind of ‑‑ that shot I hit from the tee that's kind of the score you can expect, I guess.

Q.   And lastly, which club did you hit in on 18?
FREDRIK JACOBSON:   I hit search iron.

Q.   And what yardage did you have on that?
FREDRIK JACOBSON:   I had 167 I think to the flag. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT