MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 6, 2012
Fredrik Jacobson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   It started off in kind of a crammed spot today.   You needed to gain a few shots out there. 
FREDRIK JACOBSON:   Yeah, yeah, I was ‑‑ I guess all the parts of my game came together today. 
Yesterday I was driving it well, I putted well, but I had big trouble with my irons.   It cost me a lot of shots. 
Today my iron game came with the rest of the game and so the conditions were very tricky out there with the wind.   It was kind of gusting out and laying down and little swirling.   To make seven birdies out there today was very special. 

Q.   Can you tell us about some of those?   I know I wrote down the holes.   Any real long ones?   When we're up here, we don't see all that you are able to do. 
FREDRIK JACOBSON:   Well, I got a couple early like ‑‑ well, one on the second hole and then I ‑‑

Q.   How long? 
FREDRIK JACOBSON:   That was just a tricky slider from four or five feet. 
On the 5th hole I made my next birdie.   It was probably a 20‑footer. 
Then on 7, I made another birdie.   Hit it to three feet there, so that was good. 
My next birdie was on 12, I think.   I hit it to over six feet beyond the flag there. 
13, made a long putt up there hill there from like 35, 40 feet. 
16, made a nice putt there on the hill from a little over ‑‑ it might be 25 feet. 
Then finished off with one at the last, so that was ‑‑

Q.   How long was it on 18?
FREDRIK JACOBSON:   Probably just under 20 feet, I think.

Q.   I mean, the winds were kind of tricky out there today.   I can imagine that you consumed a lot energy dealing with that on this course? 
FREDRIK JACOBSON:   Well, the course played long.   It was cold out there today, so I mean it was suddenly playing long and being a little soft.   So I managed very well today to stay in the moment and just focus on my own business and taking it easy.   So I felt pretty good out there all the way.

Q.   Were the winds kind of hard to pick up, the direction?   Were they swirling? 
FREDRIK JACOBSON:   Yeah, yeah, and since the ball was going so short early on, it was kind of hard to know if you had the downwind or if you were going to count on it.   Normally you add a little bit.   If you don't get the help that you are looking for in the trees and the ball is short, sometimes you get knocked down or you get a little gust and that can make a huge difference on the audit.   This was a tricky thing.   I fought the golf course a couple of times.   Apart from that I was very happy with the way I was striking the ball today.

Q.   Did you do something different from yesterday to today in regards to your ball striking? 
FREDRIK JACOBSON:   Yeah, we had a good session this morning where we just tried to flatten the swing a little bit.   It was probably a little steep on them, a little too upright.   I was hitting them to the right first and then I was compensating on the last two holes hitting them right.   Being a little steep I was coming either across it or I just tried to wait too long and got a little late.   Being a little flatter, I was getting a ‑‑ (inaudible) a time to sort it all out today.

Q.   I think remember talking to your coach, that's one of the things that you guys have been working on for a while?
FREDRIK JACOBSON:   Yeah, that's going to keep him busy for some years.   That will keep him employed until retirement there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT