WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 6, 2011
Fredrik Jacobson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   FREDRIK JACOBSON: Yeah, really happy with the way I played this week. Obviously played solid. I thought the course was playing a bit tougher today. It was a bit windier, and a little bit chillier. So I was impressed with some of the scoring that the boys put up today. 
 But yeah, I was happy with the chances I gave myself out there, and I wish I could have made maybe a couple of more putts along the way to really get a little bit of a cushion and put a little bit more pressure on Martin coming down the stretch. 
 But it is what it is. I gave it my everything, and overall, a great week. 

 Q. Well, you did hang in there nicely, didn't you, after the bogey right at the start, you bounced back and still had that opportunity right to the end?
 FREDRIK JACOBSON: Yeah, well, I felt I was very much in. It. Obviously 17 was a bit of a swing after I hit my tee shot left there, I took a look at the board and I saw that he birdied that one. So I knew if I was going to have a shot at it, I probably had to up-and-down that to have a realistic chance, and when he birdied the last, it was kind of -- I just hit my third shot playing for second at that point. There was no need to go for that back pin.

 Q. The bigger picture, to play as well as this in an event of this calibre, World Rankings and all that entails, super, isn't it? 
 FREDRIK JACOBSON: Yeah, I've been extremely happy with the progress I made and the work I put in over the last couple of years where I feel I've been -- I always feel I've been dedicated. But the last couple of years, I've been taking it a step further, and I feel like it's been paying off big time, so I'm really pleased with that.

 Q. Do thoughts drift back to 2003 when you had that stellar year? 
 FREDRIK JACOBSON: Well, I think I played a lot better golf this year to be honest. I know I won three times that year, but I've been leading so many tournaments this year at some stage, I feel I've been contending a lot. I had two weeks going into the fourth day.
 Just to be up there in a lot of weeks, and I did feel that when I moved over to America that the competition was a lot deeper. So I did feel I have shots that I might not have handled so well when I first came over and some of the short game stuff that I've developed over the years playing over there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT