WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 16, 2014
Fredrik Jacobson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Frederick, another wonderful round of golf for you out here.   I know you wanted that one at 18.   Still a great day.
FREDDIE JACOBSON:   Yeah.   I mean I came out putting really, really good the first 6 holes, one putted the first 6 holes, got me 4-under through 6 which was great.   Just kept hitting the ball really well all day which was good fun.   Just like the one at the last was a few close calls coming in but feel like I'm playing really well.

Q.   Even the pars you made on the back-9, you had some really good looks there for birdie as well. 
FREDDIE JACOBSON:   Yeah.   Yeah.   I think so.   Unfortunately 11 where I bogeyed ended up over the green which was a tough spot, you know, the par 5 but where I made par where maybe felt like I was in a good position where I should have made a birdie.   Hit good shots on both, just trickled over the green.   That stuff happens.   Hopefully can get the clubs right tomorrow.

Q.   Tell us about the second shot at 17.   That was wonderful.
FREDDIE JACOBSON:   Yeah.   It was a good yardage.   Kind of a full wedge coming up the hill for me.   Just go ahead and swing fully at the wedge and checked up nicely.   That's a good distance there.

Q.   You're inside a foot.   Thoughts on the final round.   This is a logjam at the top and you know you better be making birdies again tomorrow.
FREDDIE JACOBSON:   Yeah.   That's the thing.   You can't really go out and protect anything here.   Not that I'm in the lead after today but you got to go out there and keep firing like I did today, just keep giving myself chances and hopefully run a few putts in tomorrow and give it a chance to bring it home.

Q.   Can you just give us an assessment of your round today?
FREDDIE JACOBSON:   I started off really good, go out 4-under through 6 which you couldn't ask for a better start out there.   That was really nice.   I kept hitting the ball really well, you know, couple of holes where the ball just ran over the green on the par 5, 15, which was a good birdie opportunity and 11, hit a great tee shot, great second shot, ran over.   I made the only bogey of the day there.   Really tough shot behind the green. 
Apart from that, just kept giving myself chances all the way around which was nice.   Hopefully can drop a few more putts in the round tomorrow, too.

Q.   With the course giving up as many birdies as it is this week, how do you go in with a strategy tomorrow to stay aggressive?
FREDDIE JACOBSON:   Yeah.   It's so much easier.   Like today I hit a lot of fairways.   You know, attack this course a lot better from the fairway.   That's really where it starts.   You can hit the ball well from the tee and swing it well, you know, you can fire and give yourself a lot of chances and hopefully roll a few in.   You got to keep putting low numbers up.   That's going to be the ticket tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT