U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 18, 2011
Fredrik Jacobson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. That was a tremendous round of golf out there. Can you describe what you were doing and how things were clicking out there?  
 FREDRIK JACOBSON: My coach came up this week and it's been feeling good in practice, but the first day I wasn't striking the ball swell. I was a bit all over the club face and it doesn't quite work on this course, so I didn't see much of the fairways.   
 I had a good training session after the round. We stuck with it and kept plodding along with the work and it felt good in training.  
 Yesterday, down the stretch I started to strike the ball good. It feels like I've been rolling the ball well on the greens all week. Now hitting fairways, hitting greens, it feels like I'm taking advantage of that.  
  
  Q. I remember talking to you at 2003 in Oakland Hills and you had the accident and had back issues and so forth. Are you back where you feel like you're playing top tier golf? Do you feel right now this is where you belong on leaderboards in major championships?  
 FREDRIK JACOBSON: I think I've been playing consistent golf, the last couple of years have been extremely good when it comes to consistency, scoring age, when it comes to improving ball-striking. My short game has always been holding a good level. And I feel I might be lacking, have a day or two where my swing gets out of sync, and I struggle with fairways. If I can make it up around the greens, I've got to putt well and pitch well, save pars and keep myself in it and hopefully strike it like today, hit a lot of fairways and greens, and make a lot out of those days.  
  
  Q. A lot of red numbers out there, this being a U.S. Open, guys are saying that perhaps this doesn't feel or is not the test it should be, your thoughts on that?  
 FREDRIK JACOBSON: I think you run into some good tests. It all depends on if you hit the fairways. Weather, you can't control weather. And since we've had rain, the greens are softer, especially coming in with 5-iron, 6-iron, the course is playing long. But if you hit good shots, they're receptive, you can take advantage of it and go for more flags than you can in a U.S. Open. That's why I think we're seeing red numbers. It is what it is. If it rains by a bit, you've got to try and make the most out of it.  
  
  Q. Given how much ground you made up today and depending tomorrow where Rory finishes at, are you intimidated by that gap?  
 FREDRIK JACOBSON: I'm not really focusing too much on that. I wanted to obviously go out and play some good golf.   
 Yesterday, with an hour left of play, I was at plus 5. I was struggling to make the cut. I felt I could go out and give a good run today. I hit driver pretty much I think on every tee shot and I managed to keep it in the fairway all day. So a little bit of aggressive play paid off today and got me back for the tournament.   
  
  Q. You have a shot at winning this. How do you feel -- well, there aren't too many people that could say at least they could go out tomorrow and have a chance?  
 FREDRIK JACOBSON: Well, I'm going to stay aggressive. I'm going to go for the kind of golf I went after today. If I can keep hitting the ball out of the middle of the club face, it will be fine.  
  
  Q. You are in contention on Sunday, how does that feel?  
 FREDRIK JACOBSON: It feels good.   
  
  Q. Some guys have said they're playing for second. Obviously you're not taking that mindset, then, right?   
 FREDRIK JACOBSON: I'm just focusing on doing what I kept doing. It was tough earlier in the week and it's getting better so I'm excited about that. I keep working on that and hopefully have a good session tomorrow before the round. And hopefully go out and play another good round of golf.   
  
  Q. On today with Lee shooting 6-under, having your playing partner shoot so well, kind of get in a rhythm and keep scoring?  
 FREDRIK JACOBSON: I don't think it matters that much. I kind of had my run before he had his run, so I was kind of hot already. Well, I think coming down, obviously, it helped with the atmosphere. The atmosphere was fantastic, it was a great experience. It was a lot of fun out there. There was a lot of cheering and there was a lot of rooting for us, and it was great fun.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT