VALERO TEXAS OPEN
May 16, 2010
Fredrik Jacobson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DOUG MILNE: Okay. Freddie Jacobson, thanks for joining us for a few minutes after a great week here at the Valero Texas Open. You almost got the job done, 2-under 70 today, long day, obviously with 36 holes. You mentioned outside about really feeling like you're getting -- past few weeks of getting yourself in position. If you could just elaborate on that a little bit and kind of recap the day and the week for us.
 FREDRIK JACOBSON: Yeah. You know, last few weeks or last few months I've been hitting the ball really solid and the last few weeks I felt my putting hasn't been where I know I can have it at times. 
 I put a heck of a lot of work in the last three, four weeks when -- after having one or two weeks in a row where I felt it wasn't up to the standard. I feel it's starting to come around. 
 I wish it wasn't the level where I knew I couldn't have it today because I wouldn't have had the job done. I probably struck the ball today better than I ever have for any single day without making a whole lot of putts. I went bogey-free for 36 holes and shot 9-under for the two rounds and hardly felt like I was making any putts.
 The amount of looks I had at birdie today was a lot of fun and the way I put the ball in play was great.
 DOUG MILNE: How did the course suit your game? Obviously it suited it well but just some thoughts on being here obviously the first year, still a brand new course.
 FREDRIK JACOBSON: Yeah. You know, it's certainly a course where you got to be on top of your game because you can certainly miss it outside the grass a bit and end up with rocky lies or in the high stuff. 
 That's one thing, you know, driving the ball the way I did this week and feeling I wasn't in trouble a single time off the tee for four rounds and that's pretty sweet. I hit one the second shot on the par 5 in my second round where I could go for the green that I ended up there and cost me three shots instead of looking at a birdie. 
 I know how costly it can be in that stuff off the tee. It's one of those where I felt if I could keep doing the same thing and put it in play I could really, with my irons, give myself a lot of looks at it.
 DOUG MILNE: Okay. With that we'll take a few questions.

 Q. What were your thoughts when Adam pulled out to a 4 stroke lead and then you still had a lot of holes ahead of you?
 FREDRIK JACOBSON: I still wasn't aware until you told me now. I didn't really look until I was on that par 5, probably was it 14th? I had a 3-iron left there and missed it right off the green, tricky bunker shot. Wanted to see how I was doing then.
 I think I might have been three behind at that time. I certainly knew I needed some birdies and I didn't get that one up and down. So got a couple after that, to close the gap a little bit. I felt of the -- this morning I birdied the last five on that side. I certainly felt with five holes to go I could something. 
 I had good feelings coming from the morning. I gave myself good looks on all five of them. Didn't just happen -- they were that length in the morning (indicating) and now they were ten feet. Some of them got a little tricky.

 Q. You knew that the putt on 18, what it meant, I assume, right?
 FREDRIK JACOBSON: Yes.

 Q. Did it come off the way you expected it to or did something happen mechanically?
 FREDRIK JACOBSON: I don't know. It is what it is. It didn't come out the way I wanted because I wouldn't have seen it after the putt. It would have disappeared (laughter). Since I could still see the ball after I put the stroke on it it wasn't what I wanted. Rest doesn't matter.

 Q. Was it on the path you picked?
 FREDRIK JACOBSON: It probably wasn't. You know, it was weak, it was short. Rarely do they go in when they're short, you know, very few over the years.
 Fun aside, it wasn't what I wanted. I obviously wanted to give it a run and it didn't get there.
 DOUG MILNE: Okay. Real quick before we let you loose, if you wouldn't mind running us through -- we don't have to go through Round 3. If you could just take us through your birdies on the last 18 and some clubs and yards.
 FREDRIK JACOBSON: 12, I hit -- I had 120 yards to the flag. Hit a 52-degree wedge to 7 feet, maybe.
 DOUG MILNE: 15?
 FREDRIK JACOBSON: 15, I hit a 9-iron. That was probably 20, 25 feet past, 22 feet past.
 DOUG MILNE: Congratulations on a great week and we appreciate your time.
 FREDRIK JACOBSON: All right. Thank you very much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT