VALERO TEXAS OPEN
May 15, 2009
Fredrik Jacobson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Fredrik, close birdie putt missed on the last hole, still a good 4-under par round.   
 FREDRIK JACOBSON: Yeah. I've been playing really solid for a while now and managed to bring it into this week, so a couple of solid days.   
  
  Q. You've got a little boy, Max, and you've also got some little girls. Max is the youngest, though. Is he hitting the ball yet?  
 FREDRIK JACOBSON: Yeah. He's not purposely hitting balls, but he's swinging his club, and I think he was swinging at balls already when he was sitting down.   
 I haven't really taken him to the golf course or anything. I guess he's seen me practice swing or chip a little in the house sometimes. He's going after it.  
  
  Q. If he gets your short game, the world's going to be in trouble with another Jacobson. Tell me about the round today, how you started out and the conditions out there.   
 FREDRIK JACOBSON: It was probably slightly less wind for us today than it was yesterday. Ball didn't go quite as far in the morning, it was a little bit more humid and not quite as hot, so played a little bit different, but not a great deal.   
 And the places we were in, there was a couple of par 4s maybe where you had a chance to run it on yesterday or close to it where it was playing a little bit longer on the first hole where you couldn't go for it in two.   
  
  Q. Did you have any advantage this morning going over the guys that are going out right now?  
 FREDRIK JACOBSON: I don't know. Seems like the wind has been pretty steady all day, so I think the conditions should be fairly fair for all the groups.   
  
  Q. Last week, Henrik won THE PLAYERS and now we've got a couple of Swedish players at the top this week. What are your thoughts on that?  
 FREDRIK JACOBSON: I think it was Helen Alfredsson yesterday went out and shot a low round and Johan Edfors shot a low number on the European Tour, probably late after the first session. Might be inspiring to some of the Swedes.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT