AT&T NATIONAL
July 6, 2008
Fredrik Jacobson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. It looks like you've wrapped up a spot in the British Open unless something crazy happens; that's pretty exciting.   
 FREDRIK JACOBSON: Yeah, I hope so. I've been working really hard for a long time with my coach and it's coming to the last couple of weeks, so I feel the form is good and got a new driver last week from Callaway that was working really well. So I've been excited with my putting the last couple of weeks, and I would really like to get in there and do something there as well.   
  
  Q. You're climbing the FedExCup points, as well.  
 FREDRIK JACOBSON: I don't know about all the stats, just happy to play well and finish off this week. That was fun.   
 The greens, you have to time both the pace and the line which can be hard to run into spots when you're not really making anything for nine holes and suddenly you see the line a bit better and you get on a run, so you've got to be patient from the greens.   
 It's playing pretty receptive out there, so you should be having a chance to shoot the low round if you're playing really well, and you've still got to make those tricky, slippery putts.  
  
  Q. What did you find the last few weeks?   
 FREDRIK JACOBSON: I've been working really hard for a long time. I've been working on a few things and it's come together but I haven't matched all the areas. I've either been driving it well and putting poorly or putting well and not driving so well.   
 Got a new driver from Callaway, the FT-5 that was working really well and got excited about that, because it's been a couple of courses where it's fairly tight and you need to get great chances and you would like to hit driver on as many holes as possible and I've been really comfortable with it. So that's been a huge help for me to know that I've been driving it well.   
  
  Q. This week got you into Birkdale; did you know coming in that you had a chance to get in if you put up something special?  
 FREDRIK JACOBSON: Yeah, I didn't know that there was one spot this week. I'm not sure if it's totally locked up yet but I would hope so, I love to get in there. I would love to play 37 holes on the qualifier and just missed out, actually been pretty tired all week after that one, got in at 3:00 in the morning and fell asleep Monday night coming here, I think yesterday and today were the first two days when I really felt refreshed, hopefully.   
  
  Q. I don't think if you're a believer in momentum, how important is it to play well going into the British Open if you're going to play there, and it looks like you are?   
 FREDRIK JACOBSON: I think the feeling that you play well and have at least all of the areas of your game pretty sharp; it's a bit of a help, but every week is a new week; and we know one week you can miss a cut and the next week you can finish right up there and vice versa.   
 It's more about if I do get in, to prepare well and get comfortable over there, and I female like I'm ready to go over there. It's a new week.   
  
  Q. Thoughts about Anthony Kim?   
 FREDRIK JACOBSON: He's got a lot of game. He's a great ball-striker. Hits it far. He's got good flight on his long irons, as well. So he's a guy that can play really well on tough courses. This is a challenging course like Wachovia where he won earlier in the year.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT