BUICK OPEN
June 27, 2008
Fredrik Jacobson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. What was the difference for you today on the golf course?
 FREDRIK JACOBSON: Yesterday I played well and today was a little bit easier. I reckon with not as much wind, there was opportunities for good scoring.

 Q. Talk about the greens, playing first thing in the morning, still pretty soft?
 FREDRIK JACOBSON: Yeah, they are soft and receptive. I've been driving it pretty well, and still you have to hit some good shots and hit some good wedges in this week. You've got to hit it a little further. 

 Q. What's it like, the difference of putting new clubs in the bag with new grooves and ones that you've been playing with that you're used to. 
 FREDRIK JACOBSON: Yeah, I have one new wedge that I've hit two shots with. I made a bunker shot with it and up-and-down on my first hole but I've used it twice. I've never played more than a 58-degree before, so hope it can continue to do the job like that. 

 Q. You have to be happy to be in double-digits. 
 FREDRIK JACOBSON: Yeah, it was big. I got off to a hot start today. I shot 5-under on the first five and the one on the par 5 was really good. Happy that I birdied two out of the last three. 

 Q. Birdieing five in a row, what does that feel like? What's going on for you? 
 FREDRIK JACOBSON: Yeah, I birdied four out of five, and I had a 3-putt but happy with my game.

 Q. Did you do anything different today from yesterday?
 FREDRIK JACOBSON: No, I played really well yesterday. Yesterday was tougher conditions. It was a lot windier. I'm really happy with my game. I put a new Callaway FT-5 in the bag this week, and I've been driving it lovely, and if you can do that around here, you can have wedge shots into the green. 

 Q. Have you used one before?
 FREDRIK JACOBSON: I used a different one before, so I went to this one. 

 Q. Talk about playing at a place like this where you know you have to get a lot of birdies. When you see guys putting low numbers on the board, what goes through your head?
 FREDRIK JACOBSON: I didn't really look at any boards today. It's Friday morning and you know that you have to play a good round of golf, and just trying to do my thing on each and every shot. 

 Q. If you have a good round with your driver --
 FREDRIK JACOBSON: I've hit it on every tee shot. I haven't used anything else off any tee. I've been hitting driver on every hole which has paid off. Some of the holes are pretty narrow, and you have to focus. I feel I've been hitting it well, so I've kept doing it.

 Q. I understand you chipped in on 17. Can you talk about that a little bit? 
 FREDRIK JACOBSON: Yeah, I hit in the back-left bunker there and used another new club, the 52-degree wedge that I haven't played any bunker shots with before. 
 It's one thing to use it in a practice round but it's another thing on the course, but it worked out great. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT