AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 8, 2008
Fredrik Jacobson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   NELSON SILVERIO:  Fredrik, thanks for spending a few minutes with us here in the media center, 67 today.  Just give us some thoughts on the round and the conditions out there compared to yesterday. 
 FREDRIK JACOBSON:  I thought at first -- it felt really cold the first few holes, but fought it off all right with a birdie at the 1st hole.  But then it got a little slow. 
 Well, it warmed me up a little bit at the 18th when I holed out from the fairway for an eagle to get the round going, and then it actually got warmer, as well.  It wasn't that easy of conditions, but wasn't the toughest, either.  I think if you were playing well today there was an opportunity to put a score up. 

 Q.  What was your distance on the shot you holed out? 
 FREDRIK JACOBSON:  If I remember right, I think it was like 88 or something, 88 yards. 

 Q.  Was the ball behind the hole and come back down or -- 
 FREDRIK JACOBSON:  No, no, it was the real thing, from behind (laughter).  It landed a couple of yards behind and spun back. 

 Q.  What do you think of the greens here?  People over the years have complained too much poa annua, very bumpy.  That's why some guys don't come.  It looks like they're in pretty good shape this year. 
 FREDRIK JACOBSON:  Yeah, I think they are running better.  I've got to admit a few years ago when I first came over here I skipped this tournament a couple times because I planned to start around this time, and I've seen some years, some TV, when you saw a lot of short putts missed.  I wasn't sure if my mind could handle it the first week out, to start out and maybe hit good putts, or not knowing if you hit good putts, rather, if you missed them. 
 But I think they're running pretty good this week.  It's that kind of grass where there's a lot of grass and it's going to wobble a lot more than other kinds of grass. 

 Q.  And also, this tournament has been around so long, and the celebrity field and the Pro-Am field, some guys just don't like the format, I know, and the long rounds, and yet other people come out every year.  What's your approach to all that? 
 FREDRIK JACOBSON:  I think it's just a matter of different characters, how you normally play your tournaments.  The guys that normally chat a lot with their playing partners might not have any problems in focus and rather have a good time and chat away.  The guys that are really into it and really do their own thing a normal tournament week, it might be too different to tee it up with somebody and might feel obligated to chat some. 
 But I think the rounds are obviously going to take an hour and a half more than a regular round, so that's one aspect you have to switch on and off for a bit longer.  But I've only been here twice and the weather has been beautiful both times, so I don't find it difficult.  But I've also heard about the years when it's freezing, freezing cold and rainy, and then I can see you struggling for six hours to keep it together. 

 Q.  Was your round six hours today? 
 FREDRIK JACOBSON:  Yeah, I took six hours and five minutes.  I think the back nine took three hours and 25. 

 Q.  The argument is that the golfers are independent contractors, and the TOUR cannot make anybody play where they don't want to play, just have to play the minimum amount of tournaments.  I just wondered, do people feel a responsibility, not you necessarily, to support tournaments, particularly an event like this that's been around for 60 years?  Is it difficult?  Do guys say, hey, I'm not going or I am going, that type of situation? 
 FREDRIK JACOBSON:  It's hard to say.  I think a lot of times it's going to come down to the way the courses are playing these days.  They make some courses really long, they make some short, they make some tight courses, some are more generous.  I think you have good memories where you've played well.  You're always going to go back to those courses obviously and tee it up because you feel good about getting there.  If you've been hitting your face into the wall five times at a place, you might skip that one the next year and save the headaches. 
 I think some of the guys have been around and have been playing here for many years, I think they would take that into effect.  I think guys coming out, the younger guys, I'm not too sure what they would do.  I think a lot of younger guys maybe that have the first couple years out are looking for playing opportunities and will play anything this time of year to hold their ranking up. 

 Q.  Pebble Beach, which is obviously world famous, doesn't the course itself draw people, and would it draw you to have the opportunity to play Pebble, or it doesn't really make any difference? 
 FREDRIK JACOBSON:  No, I think it sure does.  You have days like this, it's absolutely gorgeous.  If you're playing good golf on top of it, it's fantastic.  But a lot of times you catch yourself walking around just watching the scenery and enjoying the whole thing.  Definitely that's a reason to play the tournament. 

 Q.  Making the decision to come over from Europe to focus your schedule here, how satisfied are you with what you've achieved? 
 FREDRIK JACOBSON:  I would have obviously liked to win, to have a win or more by this time.  But I think the number of times I've been in contention or my consistency of play, Top 10s, I think I'm pretty high up there.  I don't know how many I have.  I might have close to 20 Top 10s in the years I've been over here, which is pretty good.  I've covered everything apart from the No. 1 in the Top 10.  But it's something that I think I feel I'm getting close. 
 NELSON SILVERIO:  Fredrik, thanks a lot. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT