GINN SUR MER CLASSIC AT TESORO
October 29, 2007
Fredrik Jacobson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  We welcome Fredrik Jacobson in.  Thanks for coming in.  Maybe just talk a little about what the objective was coming in this morning.  Making a couple of birdies and see what happens? 
 FREDRIK JACOBSON:  Well, 17 is an not easy hole, especially not starting on it.  To warm up, you do everything and then you think you're riding the cart out to a tee, and you know you're playing for the tournament so you try to finish up around it yesterday. 
 I was happy the conditions were better than they were last night.  We had a decision to make yesterday whether to keep playing yesterday when it was getting dark or hang on.  And as good as it was this morning, I thought, all right, at least it's not playing any harder. 
 On that round, you're starting fresh on a hole like that.  I got myself into a bit of troubles, didn't quite relax after the tee shots, either. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Talk about the up-and-down there at 17 then? 
 FREDRIK JACOBSON:  Yeah, I mean, the two par 3's are there.  I was hoping to have a clear shot.  We've already short sided.  We don't need any trees in the way as well.  It's a bit of an elevation to get up on to the green.  Then the green is sloping away. 
 So it's one of those if you wanted to make a par, you had to be very precise, and it came off just the way I wanted it.  It's a little hard.  You haven't hit any shot this is way or I haven't.  So you're kind of gambling how tough this is.  It worked out good. 

 Q.  How much is there disappointment of not winning or how much is it satisfaction that you played very well in the final round and you did all the things you wanted to do to play within yourself? 
 FREDRIK JACOBSON:  Yeah, it's hard to control if you're going to win or not.  So what you can control is to stay in the moment and just give it your all on each and every shot.  I feel I have done that this week. 
 So I think you can be proud of yourself.  If you feel you've been letting it go or dragging old stuff with you, then you'll be getting down on yourself if you come off one shot short of it.  But I'm proud of that. 
 I'm proud that I was trailing a bit coming into the week and getting closer and closer.  And I ended up having a shot at it, which was nice.  One thing we could have hoped for was maybe one proper opportunity on the last two holes to get a par, possibly within 25 feet or something. 

 Q.  Do the rest of the Swedes consider Daniel to be Swedish or Indian or a little of both?  Does he sort of play both sides of the fence?  He's like the only guy that doesn't live down here in your South Florida commune where you guys all hang out. 
 FREDRIK JACOBSON:  I don't know.  Does he know what he is (laughing).  No, well, I consider him Swedish.  But the funny thing is probably speaking one or two languages just as good as his Swedish, which is perfect as well.  So it's unbelievable that way. 
 You can't hear that he's been living in India that long or living over here when he speaks Swedish.  But you still would think that English would be his first language or Hindi or whatever he speaks there. 
 You know, he's been a world traveler for a long time.  He's played in Asia.  He played in Europe.  He's played over here.  Probably played as many tours as anybody.  So he's a very experienced player in that aspect. 

 Q.  How well do you know Daniel, and talk a little about his game? 
 FREDRIK JACOBSON:  Yeah, I've known Daniel for quite some time.  We obviously run into each other on different tours around the world.  He's always been an extremely talented player. 
 Last year showed particularly how many times he was into contention coming into the weekend.  He might not have had the best Saturdays when he was in this phenomenon I've been fighting a bit this year.  But I think on the other hand, if you keep putting yourself there and sooner or later, you breakthrough.  I mean it's got to happen. 
 This time he did very well and he hung in there.  He got a bit of a cushion, he kept slugging away, and he did what he had to do. 
 It's great.  No matter how often you're in contention, sooner or later, you will want to have a win.  And that's giving you, also, a good feedback that the things you're doing are working and works all the way, so. 

 Q.  The first four months this year, this puts you up in the top 60, I think in the Invitationals.  Just talk about what you had to overcome this year, and what you feel about what you've been accomplishing for a very short time? 
 FREDRIK JACOBSON:  Yeah, I was gone from golf for seven months which was the longest I've ever been gone since I started playing the games. 
 One end I think it's nice.  Because when you're in it and you play all the time, it's easy to lose the perspective, and you're always in it.  But when you get to step away for a longer period of time and you're with the kids and you're training.  You get time to train on things when you can't physically play golf, you get a chance to try to improve other areas of yourself or with strategies or how you're going to train when you do come back. 
 You see it from the outside, which is hard when you're playing all the time.  You guys know as well, you travel around, and before we know it, next week gets started and you're in that.  You forget about last week.  Things are just rolling.  You have a short little off-season, and you're on it again. 
 So we never really get -- if you're healthy, you never really get a lot of time to look on it from the outside.  So I think I've benefited a bit from that.  Because the practice went really well. 
 If I got started after the operation, and I had a chance to work on my putting, for example, for two or three months before I teed it off.  Then you got working on the chipping for maybe two months.  You got to hit balls for one month.  Got to play like probably played 7 and a half before I teed it up in the first tournament. 
 But, anyway, gradually you can take it piece by piece.  The game rolls in and you try to take everything on at once.  It was a different experience, but I think it's something that I had great uses from this year.  If I missed a game? 

 Q.  If you missed it because your rehab happened, you sat out that long.  You've always played a lot of tournaments, you know? 
 FREDRIK JACOBSON:  Well, no, not like Daniel and this guy.  Yeah, I play maybe 23, 24, 25, normally.  I get up to 20 still this year.  I think you can tell I missed it, because I went up and played 9 in a row off the bat when I came back.  I've never done that before.  But it's kind of playing a week at a time, and I love to be back. 

 Q.  (Indiscernible)? 
 FREDRIK JACOBSON:  Yeah.  I mean, yeah, in a certain way you do.  But I would have had the medical and gotten those later.  But I wanted to get started.  Once I thought I was going to have a break, I was lucky enough to get into the Invitationals.  And I can't say no to this one.  I like this course.  So I played one and then I played the next.  But it's been good. 

 Q.  (Indiscernible)? 
 FREDRIK JACOBSON:  I tore a tendon and the ligament was loose as well.  So it was tight in the ligament.  It's great.  I stitched that up, too. 

 Q.  Hasn't bothered you? 
 FREDRIK JACOBSON:  Probably for a few years.  But it got really bad at Chicago last year.  That's where I felt, probably, one or the other.  I would say the ligament probably was the one that's given the pain got bad.  One shot, and it didn't recover normally.  Before then, even if it hurt a little bit, it would recover for the next day, but then it didn't go away, so I had to do something. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT