GINN SUR MER CLASSIC AT TESORO
October 28, 2007
Fredrik Jacobson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  You have a lot of momentum.  Talk about where your position is. 
 FREDRIK JACOBSON: I'm really happy with the way I played this year, and it's nice to so far put a very good weekend in.  It's rough to follow it up and keep trying. 
 It was a good day today.  Only one dropped shot along the way in these tough conditions which was key, basically, enough to keep it in play, because it was a bit tougher.  So but we'll see. 

 Q.  Talk about tomorrow.  You have two holes to play.  Chopra has three.  Tell us how you'll approach that. 
 FREDRIK JACOBSON: I just, honestly, since I've had the way I've had with the weekend a bit, I've been in this position a lot of times this year.  And this week it's worked really well, I stayed kind of in a half pissed off attitude, tried to force through that thing and rather than get too keen or too happy, give myself a kick in the butt and just focus on my own stuff.  Really, that's all I've been doing this week to stay in the moment, to keep telling myself all the time to stay right here.  This is where it happens. 
 That's been the thing.  I've been running a little bit ahead of myself previous weeks.  And lost a connection with the leader, starting to feel it goes out of you and you're chasing too hard and start making mistakes.  A week maybe you could have finished fifth and sixth, end up 15th or 20th and end up giving up a lot of ground if you do that.  So so far so good. 

 Q.  Would you have liked to have kept playing (today), as well as you were hitting it on the back nine? 
 FREDRIK JACOBSON:  No, I was probably the one calling it off.  I don't have great eyesight when it gets dark.  So I kind of struggle with the putting.  It's a little tough to zoom in on the shots and distance to the ball.  I thought since we weren't getting done any way, I might as well start over tomorrow.  Hope for downwind on that par 3. 

 Q.  It will be difficult for you not to think you're going to have to make at least one birdie somewhere because Daniel still has 16 to play? 
 FREDRIK JACOBSON:  Not if I keep focusing on what I have done well this weekend.  That's what I've got to stick to.  And whatever that turns out to be, if that turns out to be a win or if it turns out to be a top 4 or top 5, whatever, I guess I'll be happy if I can stick to what I have done.  And that's where I want to be. 
 I guess that's where I want to be, in the moment.  I don't want to worry about what anybody else is doing.  I didn't know where they were standing when we got finished.  I was just focusing on my shots.  And I think that worked well. 

 Q.  Did you get angry at the tee shot on No. 8 - you hit a really good second shot there and started to put -- 
 FREDRIK JACOBSON:  I got angry a few times out there today.  (Laughter) But it wasn't pretty.  It's not often you have a 5-wood into that hole.  9-iron yesterday.  It was a little longer.  I was happy, excited I got it into the fairway.  At least I had a shot to go for the green.  I think everybody saw a little of my aggression. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT