VALERO TEXAS OPEN
October 5, 2007
Fredrik Jacobson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOAN vt ALEXANDER:  Thank you for Fredrik Jacobson joining us for a few minutes here in the Media Center at the Valero Texas Open.   
 Another nice round out there, 65, on top of the 66 you had yesterday.  I notice that -- I had forgotten that you didn't play your first event until April of this year, had some wrist problems from 2006 but you've actually had a tremendous year for the 16 events that you did get to play in.   
 Just talk a little bit about today and little bit about your year and how your wrist is doing.   
 FREDRIK JACOBSON:  Yeah.  First of all, I was gone for seven months.  Starting out I wasn't quite sure how long it was going to take before I got into tournament form, but I did get some good time to start putting and gradually move on with the game.   
 I started off with putting and chipping and then pitching.  So I guess my putting has been pretty good all year.   
 Got a good chance to work on one piece at a time and also get some -- it's not that often we get that much time to actually work on our game before tournaments come around so you get a bit of privacy to work which was nice in a way.   
 We're always curious to see how it's going to go.  But after a couple of weeks, I got into it very well so it took some pressure off when I finished 7th or something at the Byron Nelson, my third tournament.   
 After that it was felt like I was -- felt like I was back after that week.  The hand is doing fine at the moment.  It's been good.   
  
  Q.  Right hand?   
 FREDRIK JACOBSON:  Yeah.  It's actually been pretty good all the way.  It might be a shot here and there in the rough where I still feel it but I'm not sure I wouldn't -- I might have felt it even though if it was -- if I didn't have the operation.   
 It's one of those, it's tough to say whether it's because you operated on it or sometimes it hurts anyway, doesn't it?  So it's find to keep it smooth and flexible.   
  
  Q.  What was the injury?   
 FREDRIK JACOBSON:  It was a ligament that was loose that they stitched up and a tendon was slightly torn as well, so there was some scar tissue and put some stitches to that.  It was one more thing that I don't even know.   
  
  Q.  Was it a fall or swing or how did you injure it?   
 FREDRIK JACOBSON:  Got really bad at the Western Open last year, one tee shot where I really felt it burnt and then I kept playing for awhile but it never, never went away.   
 Kind of had a bit of trouble on and off for a long time with it but that's when it got over the line and couldn't get it well.   
  
  Q.  So it wasn't an injury like falling or anything, it was something just repetitive from the golf swing?   
 FREDRIK JACOBSON:  Yeah.  I must have tendon I probably torn a long time ago but that was probably okay.  I think the ligament went that week at the Western.   
  
  Q.  Have you played this course several times or is this the first time?   
 FREDRIK JACOBSON:  My second time here.   
  
  Q.  Does it meet your eye?  Is there something about it that you're playing so well this week?   
 FREDRIK JACOBSON:  I think it's fun.  I don't know much.  It's a lot of altitude and quite a bit of calculation when you're playing out there to get the right distance and that which I enjoy.   
 On the other hand, you've got to walk the hills, don't you, so it can be quite hard work, too, especially if you're missing a few shots to keep it going.  It's a fun course to play.   
  
  Q.  Your putt on 18 was about six foot.  What was the read on it?  Did you feel like you could make it on this last putt?   
 FREDRIK JACOBSON:  Obviously I was looking to make it but I tried to play it a couple balls outside right.  I think it was lacking a bit of pace and I didn't quite make it.   
  
  Q.  If you make it, it puts you at 10.  Jesper is at 13.  Because this course you can score on.  You don't have the feeling that things are getting away but there's still too much to do at the halfway point.   
 FREDRIK JACOBSON:  I'm obviously happy with the position I'm in and lot of golf to be played.  If somebody runs away with it, all the credit to that player but I got to try to stay patient.   
 I think the one thing I'm fighting from this point is having played quite well this year and been up there quite a few times more than I have in the past and quite haven't had a 1st or a 2nd yet.  I'm really trying hard to get that and the fuse is getting a little shorter.   
 That's the one thing I got to deal with and I wanted it badly on 18 and I had a lot of chances today.  I was either close -- one hole I wasn't close to a birdie on 17.  Up until then it took me 14 holes or something to make a putt of three feet.   
 It tested my patience a bit when I play well.  As good as I'm normally putting I feel I should have a chance.  It took a lot a long time before this round took off.   
  
  Q.  So you got Jesper, you've got yourself and Richard Johnson.  What's with the Swedish invasion here?  Is this a lot like Sweden, Valero Swedish Open?   
 FREDRIK JACOBSON:  It was great to see the guys, everybody getting off to a good start yesterday and quite a few of them are borderline of keeping their Tour cards so they need a good week.  It would be huge if a few of us could hang in until then.   
 JOAN vt ALEXANDER:  Everybody all set.  Thank you.   
 FREDRIK JACOBSON:  Thank you very much.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT