AT&T NATIONAL
July 6, 2007
Fredrik Jacobson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Have you been up to Carnoustie since '99? 
 FREDRIK JACOBSON:  I wasn't there then, either. 

 Q.  Have you been there at all? 
 FREDRIK JACOBSON:  I played that Dunhill Links a few times, but it's a totally different setup when it's in the fall, because it actually plays quite easy at that time of year. 

 Q.  You've obviously heard nightmare stories about '99.  What are your expectations about how the R&A is going to set it up two weeks from now? 
 FREDRIK JACOBSON:  I don't know.  I don't really -- I missed the qualifying Monday.  So I don't really care too much anymore to be honest.  I'm going on a holiday or I'm going to go to Sweden for a holiday. 

 Q.  Unless you finish as the top non-exempt player here. 
 FREDRIK JACOBSON:  Then I might start caring a little again.  (Laughter) One thing at a time, though. 

 Q.  Can you see the DNA of this course as a U.S. Open course; even though it's not set up that way, is it still playing pretty difficult? 
 FREDRIK JACOBSON:  I think it would be.  If you speeded up these greens a little bit and they firmed up, absolutely.  They would be -- now you're lucky, I mean, it's still playing tough but you're lucky that you can stop the balls quickly. 
 So even if you happen to get a lie in the rough, you can stop the ball, which you wouldn't be able to if they firmed it up.  So I think it could play very tough. 

 Q.  Do you recall watching the '99 British with Van de Velde and everything? 
 FREDRIK JACOBSON:  Yeah, I didn't really watch the tournament.  I obviously have seen replays of the last few holes, the playoff and what went on on the 18th with Craig Parry holing his bunker shot from being one off and Van de Velde making a putt for 7 to get into the playoff.  But that's pretty much all I saw from it.  A bit of a torture to watch it, as well. 

 Q.  How did it go today? 
 FREDRIK JACOBSON:  Yeah, I played well.  I played well.  I got off to a good start.  I was a couple under early.  But around the turn, got into a bit of trouble, missed a few fairways and made three bogeys in four holes and bounced back and got it back to 1-under for the day.  So, I was happy. 

 Q.  I know you are concentrating on your game, but Tiger shot 73 yesterday and came back with a 66 today.  Is that of any surprise at all to you? 
 FREDRIK JACOBSON:  Not really, no.  He might have needed one day to get whatever little rust he might have after having the baby and all that.  But I think he's probably keen to go now and he'll probably make a move every day from here on. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT