QUICKEN LOANS NATIONAL
June 28, 2014
Fredrik Jacobson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Thoughts on running into a tough golf course this afternoon; the greens firmed up on you.FREDDIE JACOBSON: Yeah, today they were certainly firmer.  They were faster yesterday and they got even faster today.  You know, they are starting to get a little bit crunchy in certain spots.  It's getting very testing out there, and, you know, it's been a tough course all week, but it's not getting any easier.
Q. What a great front nine for you.  You make the turn in 4-under.FREDDIE JACOBSON: Yeah, I was kind of making everything I looked at on the front side and I kept hitting good shots, and you know, I was able to shoot 4-under and still not being super aggressive on my shots and just playing for the safe spots but thanks to rolling in a few longer putts, I turned at 4-under. I was in a good position.  You want to get by 10 and 11.  You know those are the toughest holes, and got me good today, but I hung in there from there on out.
Q. On a day when I thought your game could have gotten away from you, you had just 25 putts out there.FREDDIE JACOBSON: Yeah, I was rolling it great.  I think it's one of those, you've got to put it in play and you've got to putt and short game pretty good this week.  It's going to be testing, and I made a good amount of putts today, which was nice.
Q. I know when you teed off on Thursday, your intention was to win the golf tournament.  When you tee off on Sunday, imagine you have that opportunity?FREDDIE JACOBSON: Absolutely.  Absolutely.  This is my last tournament for a couple of weeks, so I'm heading back to Sweden for a while. You know, that's been my goal for the week, to give myself a chance and hopefully pull a win off before I go back.  It happened once before at travelers just before I left.  Hopefully can give myself a chance to do it again tomorrow.
Q. Why the knickers out here?FREDDIE JACOBSON: I like them.  Oscar Jacobson, the brand I wear, they do a good job tailoring, and I thought I'll wear them, and it's a little bit cooler in this heat, too.
Q. Will we see them on Sunday?FREDDIE JACOBSON: Maybe, we'll see.  I've been wearing them on and off.  I had Oscar Jacobson made a bunch for me last year and some new ones this year.  It's been kind of hot this week here, so I thought, let's air it out a little bit this weekend and bring them out.
Q. How treacherous is this golf course, especially in the afternoon?FREDDIE JACOBSON: I played in the morning yesterday, so compared to the morning to afternoon today was a big difference.  I noticed when we got on the putting green today before the round, things had firmed up a lot and it was even faster.  In the morning it was pretty fast but it keeps getting tougher and tougher.
Q. Heading into tomorrow, it's a condensed leaderboard, but on a difficult golf course.  What is your mentality?FREDDIE JACOBSON: Well, I mean, you can't really focus too much on the other guys. I've said all week, it's one of those you've got to try to hit as many fairways as you can, and then, you know, you've got to short game it well and have your touch, because it's kind of tricky around here.  Hopefully put your irons in a spot where you can give a few putts a go.  There's a lot of fast, downhill putts out there. Obviously I would have liked to move a few spots with that front nine I had, but I was pretty close to the lead coming into the round, and if I can stay pretty close -- I really had it going on the front side and played some fantastic golf.  Got by 10, 11, two tough holes.  But hung in and played good golf from there on in.
Q. Why the knickers today?FREDDIE JACOBSON: Well, it's pretty hot out there and Oscar Jacobson, the clothing brand, made a new knickers last year and made a few this year, and I thought I haven't really brought them out this year, so I thought it was time.
Q. You had three 20-foot putts early for birdie.  How much did that help?FREDDIE JACOBSON: If you're going to go low, which I had a chance to do today, I think you have to make a few of those, because it's really tough -- either that, or certain pins you can feed it from the hills and get close.  But as it firms up, it gets tougher and tougher to go for the pins.  And the golf course is such you don't really want to miss on the short-side because it's a really tricky up-and-down.  I think that's the key to really rolling a few 20-, 25-footers if you can.
Q. Talk about 10 and 11.FREDDIE JACOBSON: The disappointment was that I backed off the game plan I had.  I couldn't hit a 3-wood the way I wanted off the tee.  I was playing for four-and-a-quarter or four-and-a-third by hitting 3-wood and planning on laying myself short off the green and go for a chip-and-putt, which I had a good chance of up-and-downing. But I was there and my playing partner impressed me with a 3-wood from further back, hit it up on the green and tapped it in.  And I took the 5-wood and carved it out. But it's one of those, you get away from your game plan, you pay the price sometimes.  Instead of four-and-a-third, I took a six.  I had to dig deep after that and I think I did.
 
 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT