STANFORD ST. JUDE CHAMPIONSHIP
June 7, 2007
Fredrik Jacobson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   COLIN MURRAY:  Alright.  Fredrik, thanks for joining us, 3-under par 67.  I just want to start us off with a few previous comments about your round and then we'll open it up for questions. 
 FREDRIK JACOBSON:  Yeah.  Well, it was a tough day from the beginning, weatherwise, a bit of wind.  Got off to a great start starting on the back side, the first three holes playing pretty tough, obviously, and playing them got me a bit of confidence in the wind and got through the tough start and kind of went from there. 
 COLIN MURRAY:  Can you take us through your birdies and bogeys? 
 FREDRIK JACOBSON:  First hole I birdied was 11.  Hit an 8-iron to 15 feet and made that. 
 12, I had 9-iron on the second shot to four feet, made that.  On 16, I pitched it up from left of the green, short-sided to 15 feet and made that. 
 I forget the bogey.  I hit it in the water on 14 and two putted from the fringe on that. 
 On 4, I hit 6-iron on the fringe, putted from 20 feet and made that and on 5, I hit a 5-iron on the second shot to four feet. 
 I missed a four foot putt probably for a par. 
 COLIN MURRAY:  Alright.  Open it up.  We've got a wireless mike.  If you can just raise your hand if you have a question. 

 Q.  You mentioned the wind.  How tough was it to get used to it and did that maybe cause some problems making sure you had the right club today? 
 FREDRIK JACOBSON:  I think what we're doing calculating the distances and that which can be crucial on some holes, if there's water around and all that. 
 Actually, worked it out well for distances.  I noticed, too, we kept hitting good shots the last few holes, maybe missed one a little bit, but we had some good chances. 
 But I felt it got to my putting a couple times when you have a gust coming in the middle of your stroke.  It's not only the full shots, it's also once you're on the green trying to stand still and get a little push, it can push you off. 
 Most of the day we're fortunate.  I noticed a couple of times it was, if you had a big gust, blast of wind, it makes it even more difficult. 

 Q.  Could you talk about your success?  You had three Top-10s in three previous trips here. 
 FREDRIK JACOBSON:  Yeah.  I think it's a little bit the same wherever you go, if you play well in a place a couple of times, you feel good about coming here and you have a lot of good memories and a lot of fond memories from previous years.  Last year I missed the cut for the first time.  Before then I was Top-6 three times in a row, fourth, fifth and sixth. 
 I tried to get back to where you start feeling good again and today was a good start for that. 

 Q.  With the way the wind is going, do you like your position at this point getting ready to go into tomorrow? 
 FREDRIK JACOBSON:  Yeah.  I mean anybody that shoots under par today will be really happy with where they are at the moment and I feel that I'm right where I want to be.  Obviously, I'm happy with putting a good score on the board with the wind difficult and getting to the tournament and hopefully keep playing well the rest of the week. 

 Q.  The field is obviously different than it has been some of the times you've been here. 
 Does that give the whole thing a different feel for you or is it where you are simply playing the course, or looking around and see the names that are here, does it change the way it feels? 
 FREDRIK JACOBSON:  Yeah.  It's obviously more exciting when you have 6 of the top 12 guys in the world are here this week.  Last week we had a great field, as well. 
 You like playing with people like that.  One year I probably finished 5th here and I got the same world ranking points as the guy finishing 28th in Europe that week at Wentworth. 
 I mean if you like the place, you have a place where you play well, you obviously want to gain a few points also if you're doing it.  It's a little bit of a bummer if you have a good week and don't really climb anything or just hold your position for a Top-5. 
 Even if those guys aren't here, it's still not easy to finish in the Top-5 but it adds to the whole tournament, obviously, with the factor of some players here this year and for points and everything, which makes it more exciting, interesting for other players to come, as well. 

 Q.  A lot of players like to play obviously a week before a Major.  Are you tuning up for -- talk about tuning up for the Major.  Are you tuning up or simply trying to win a darn tournament? 
 FREDRIK JACOBSON:  Well, tuning up.  I'm not playing next week.  I've been tuning up for quite sometime for a Major.  It's been awhile since I have there. 
 I actually skipped the qualifying Monday because I've been playing eight weeks in a row and I didn't go to Florida to qualify.  I was given an invitation so I decided right there and then I'll put my bet on playing at Muirfield and play this 9th week and take a week off. 
 Also, with my hand injury, I figured when I heard Phil getting some troubles with his wrist, I didn't think it would be very clever for me to play my 10th week in a row in that kind of rough with my hand just coming back from an operation. 
 COLIN MURRAY:  Alright.  Thanks for your time. 
 FREDRIK JACOBSON:  Thank you. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT