BARCLAYS CLASSIC
June 9, 2006
Fredrik Jacobson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
NELSON SILVERIO:  Fredrik, thanks for coming in for a couple minutes, another solid round.  Why don't you just take us through your round real quick.  Did the course play any different than yesterday?
FREDRIK JACOBSON:  Not really.  I mean, the greens are not quite as soft as they were yesterday.  Yesterday the ball was spinning a lot, today was not spinning as much.  The fairways are still soft.  Pretty similar I would say, but you want me to go on about the round a bit, as well, at the same time?
NELSON SILVERIO:  Just some open thoughts, yeah.
FREDRIK JACOBSON:  Well, a bit of a shaky start.  I didn't hit too many greens in the beginning there and scrambled my way through the first four or five holes, started to play good from there on, didn't really hole any putts until late in the round.  At the end of the round I felt the putting got going again.  Luckily it got going before I made it to the clubhouse.
Q.  Have you played with or been around Vijay much lately and got a barometer on his game?
FREDRIK JACOBSON:  Well, am I going to
Q.  You may
FREDRIK JACOBSON:  I've only played with him one time, and I think that was in Chicago like three years ago in 2003.
Q.  Do you notice any appreciable difference in the way you're hitting the ball now and say, I don't know, the last couple years or something?  I remember when you first came on the scene and you made the qualifier for the U.S. Open over at Old Oaks there and your game has gradually progressed where now it's not really a surprise to see you up there because you have a total game.  When did you find yourself getting comfortable and knew you were able to play with everybody out here?
FREDRIK JACOBSON:  I thought I was playing better at that time than I do now, to be honest.  No, I think this week so far, I've been pitching the ball very well, and out of this grass I think you've got to try to feel comfortable somehow when you miss the greens, and I managed to get up and down around there.  Lately I think that's the part I've been working a lot on, the pitching and the putting because that's what's been lacking the last few tournaments, so that's what's been very good so far this week.
Q.  This is kind of an off the wall question, but you rarely see golfers wearing glasses anymore.  Tiger Woods made a big deal about his lasik eye surgery.  Is that something you thought about or is that kind of a distinct look?
FREDRIK JACOBSON:  Well, I haven't worn glasses before, but I checked my vision and I started to struggle to see the ball landing the last couple of years a bit.  I checked it and it was a little bad for long distance.  I have astigmatic problem, as well, so I thought I'd get some glasses to fix that, as well.  I tried the contacts and it didn't work, got too irritated.  That's why I ended up with this.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT