BARCLAYS CLASSIC
June 8, 2006
Fredrik Jacobson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Fredrik Jacobson, thanks for joining us hereafter a first round 67 under some wet conditions, but didn't affect you too much today with the good round, especially on the front nine with a 4 under 32.  Maybe some opening comments about your day.
FREDRIK JACOBSON:  Yeah, I mean, a few people have said a lot about the weather, but it's actually been very good playing conditions out there.  There wasn't a lot of wind, and it only rained for a couple of minutes at a couple of different locations.  I think we've been very lucky this morning with the weather.  The course actually dried up extremely well.  I mean, it's not like the ball is running or anything, but you don't have to take relief for gushing water too many times or anything like that.  I'm amazed the condition the course is in.  Looking at it like that, it probably hasn't affected us too much I wouldn't think.  The rough is heavy, but at the same time we get preferred lies on the fairways, which maybe even helped us a little bit.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Sweden has had a lot of success in the past couple weeks.  Are you hoping to continue that trend.
FREDRIK JACOBSON:  Yeah.  Obviously you would want to play well every week.  That hasn't been the case lately, but it's been a very good swell.  It's been a lot of different names that's been up there.  That's a good sign.  A lot of times we've had one or two players doing well for a spell of 12 months or two years sometimes, but to see more players getting up to the top is definitely a big step forward for the Swedish men's golf, I think.
Q.  I don't know if anybody asked you, how difficult was it out there with the conditions?
FREDRIK JACOBSON:  I just talked about it (laughter).  You'll have to ask one of your pals in a couple of minutes (laughter).
Q.  How did it affect the greens?  You didn't really mention how it affected the greens.  Is it making them pretty receptive?
FREDRIK JACOBSON:  Yeah, very receptive.  I'd say if you're coming in with a longer club it's perfect because it stops straight away.  If you're coming in with a short one, you might have to adjust a little bit and take an extra club and hit it soft and spin it.  That would probably be the toughest thing playing for the back pins.  If you were having a wedge in your hand you would have to adapt a little bit or lay up for a different yardage to hitting a different club in.  I think those holes were playing different from what they were before.
Q.  How much of an advantage is lift, clean and place?  Does it make a two shot difference, three shot difference?
FREDRIK JACOBSON:  It's tough to say, but I think it's just more to make it fair.  Some shots pick up a lot of mud, and if you have mud on the ball it's tough to read what it's going to do.  It's to make it fair more than anything.  It's tough to say, it definitely makes a difference in these conditions.  If you were going to play with a mud ball, it would be much tougher.
Q.  Were you happy to post a score this morning, get it out of the way?
FREDRIK JACOBSON:  Yeah, it's always nice to get off to a good start in a tournament literally the first day.  Any time you start off solid and get yourself in a position where you can try to advance from there, it's nice.  We got the good weather, maybe it's good this afternoon, but if you can take advantage of that, it's nice.
Q.  Tom Lehman was in here yesterday talking about the Ryder Cup.  Is that on your mind already?
FREDRIK JACOBSON:  No, it's not, because I can't make the team no matter    I haven't joined the European Tour, and I would have to play 11 tournaments and I'm not going to do that this year.  It's not an option for me this year, so I've got that cleared out of my mind.
Q.  Is it something you wrestled with?
FREDRIK JACOBSON:  No, I would have loved to play or have a chance to play, but as the system works up to today, it doesn't make it possible for me because I'm not in the majors and the World Events, so to play there, it wouldn't leave much of a season here for me.  This is where I want to play.  I would have tried if I was into those tournaments, but since I'm still    I'm exempt for a couple more years over there, and when you're exempt, you can't join and just play a few.  If you join then you have to play 11.  If I ran out of exemption, I would have been fine.  I wouldn't have had to play anything there and still join the Tour.  That's the difference, I ended up in a bit of a situation this time.
Q.  Are you considering playing any events in Europe this year?
FREDRIK JACOBSON:  Yeah, I plan to try to qualify for the British obviously, and I'll probably play the one next week.
Q.  When do you think the Ryder Cup may be an option for you?
FREDRIK JACOBSON:  Well, we've got two kids now, two years and one is four months.  Right now it's not an option.  It would have an option if I'm top 50 in the world.  As the system is now.  Or it would be an option if they just picked them off the World Ranking points or some other system that made it possible to play here.  It's tough to say.  I don't know, it's tough to predict if you're going to be top 50 or what's going to happen with the way they pick the team.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  If we could just touch on your round really quick.  Four birdies on the front side starting with No. 4, par 4.
FREDRIK JACOBSON:  On the 4th I hit an 8 iron to a foot.

Par 5, 5th, pitched it up to two feet, three feet.

Short par 4, No. 7, hit a 9 iron to four feet.

Birdied the last on the front nine, No. 9, par 5, two putt from 60 feet or something, 70 feet.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Fredrik Jacobson, thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT