THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT
June 4, 2005
Fredrik Jacobson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
FREDRIK JACOBSON:  Five minutes of glory, five minutes of fame.
Q.  From no fame yesterday and relative anonymity at even, and then you go out and throw a nice 65 to throw yourself right in it, moving day, I guess.

FREDRIK JACOBSON:  Yeah, I've been playing well the last couple of weeks, and I felt I played pretty good the first couple of days here, just a few too many mistakes.  I think I lost like nine shots out there the first couple of days.  Today I managed to stay away from that and made one bogey.  I think that was the difference in really hitting a lot of shots within the scoring circle today or within 20 feet, so I made a few of them, so that was great.
Q.  What is it for guys today?  I mean, we've seen a 64 from Jim Furyk.  What is it that guys are able to get into that scoring zone today?

FREDRIK JACOBSON:  I mean, the weather has been fantastic today.  There was just a little bit of breeze and the course is playing great.  I mean, the greens are running so well.  I think there has been a chance all week.  Some guys are shooting it the first couple of days, and there will be a few guys shooting low today.  I think we're going to see that every day.  I think this is going to be a course you can play well.
Q.  Back side, tell me what you did.  Furyk ran off six straight birdies on the back side.  Are there some places accessible out there?

FREDRIK JACOBSON:  Yes, there was a few pins today like 10 and 11 and 13 and a few of these holes where you could actually feed it off the slopes so you could still get it to run down really close to the pin if you hit the shot the right way.  I guess that kind of    the pins were tight before, but you couldn't feed it down, and if you missed it you were in trouble before.  So you had a few of those pins where if you played a good shot, you could roll it down close.
Q.  Did you drive a par 4 or come close to one?

FREDRIK JACOBSON:  Not that I am aware of, no.
Q.  Somebody had said that.

FREDRIK JACOBSON:  No.
Q.  How is the heat?  Humidity bothering you at all?

FREDRIK JACOBSON:  You need to use the towel quite a bit on a day like this.  That's the difference today from the first couple of days, just to make sure the hands are dry and the grips are nice and sticky and it's a little bit of extra work keeping it dry.

FastScripts by ASAP Sports....



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT