FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
May 27, 2005
Fredrik Jacobson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Fredrik, welcome.  6 under par, 64 today, no bogeys.  Just talk about your play today and the first few days.
FREDRIK JACOBSON:  Obviously I had a good short game these first couple of days.  Gave myself a few opportunities as well.  I got off to a rough start yesterday.  After a few holes I was over.  I have been a little bit hard on myself the last few months.  That is what I worked on, trying to not change anything because of how it is going.  I just tried to do the same and give myself the best chance at each shot.  That is what helped me a lot these last few weeks to turn things around a little bit.  I hope this is a sign of more consistent form.  I think that has made the difference.
Q.  With the tie for third two years ago, tie for fifth last year, something about this golf course you obviously like?
FREDRIK JACOBSON:  I was happy playing well last week, the week before this to at least know I had form coming in.  I know it is a place I really like to play.  It's a place you feel good about coming back to.  I was happy to come back here and try to be in a good position for the weekend.
Q.  How is the    we read about your daughter last year; how is she doing?
FREDRIK JACOBSON:  She is doing good.  A lot of baby flues.  I have had my fair bit of it as well.  Everybody knows about it.  I just didn't know that was going to be part of it.
Q.  You didn't anticipate that?
FREDRIK JACOBSON:  No.
Q.  Probably been a while since you were sick?
FREDRIK JACOBSON:  I think before this year I have only had the flu three or four years.  Now I have had more flues than that this year.  It has been quite different in that way.  I am still coughing a bit this week.  Hopefully get that out soon as well.
Q.  What affect did that have on your training?
FREDRIK JACOBSON:  It affects your training.  I am not going to blame it.  If you have the flu you can't do your fitness training.  You still need to keep playing.  It is not a job where you can stop playing because you have a flu.  You have to keep going.  I certainly would have liked for training purposes to see it go away.  If you have more energy you feel fresher and you can perform better.
Q.  Did you feel the need to try to get as low as you could today considering what Justin did yesterday?
FREDRIK JACOBSON:  I haven't really worried about what the scoring was or about closing in on the lead.  I just try to do what I did yesterday.  I try to work on my own game.  Try to focus on each shot.  That is all I was work on out there today.  That led up to a good score that I am happy about.  I did what I could today.  I am happy about that.
Q.  Do you like being in this position?  Do you feel more comfortable going into the weekend?
FREDRIK JACOBSON:  Yes.  I had six good tournament rounds in a row.  It has been probably the beginning of the year since I last did that.  That is always nice when you can get a few rounds in aq row where you are playing well and keeping it together.  Hopefully I can do the same over the weekend.
Q.  What do you think of the changes in the course?  It is firming up out there; is it fair?
FREDRIK JACOBSON:  Yeah, I think it is playing very fair.  As firm as it was in the beginning of the week there might have been a couple of par 3s where it was hard.  They moved the tee up to make it more playable.  No. 11, it I gives you a fair chance to stop the ball.

That is always the thing with new greens, they are firm in the beginning.  I think they have done well to keep them as soft as possibly.  It has been playing well.
Q.  You kind of take a like to Memphis?  What is it about Memphis, not necessarily the course?
FREDRIK JACOBSON:  I had a great reception the first time I came here.  Phil Cannon, the tournament director and FedEx St. Jude Classic gave me an invitation to play this tournament when I first came over.  I had a great time.  I have enjoyed it.  I like it a lot here and it has been a lot of fun.
Q.  You are staying focused solely on this Tour this year; is that right?
FREDRIK JACOBSON:  Yeah.
Q.  Not going back to Europe?
FREDRIK JACOBSON:  I go back for a bit of holiday; I won't be playing anything.
Q.  Why did you decide to make that decision?
FREDRIK JACOBSON:  I combined them for the last two years and it is hard travelling wise I feel.  With the little babe, I didn't feel like doing it, to fly back and forth.  It is a minimum of 11 events.  I want to be sure I was going to be doing well.  That means I have to stay there in the summer and play every week.  It is hard enough to keep your position over here.  It needs my full attention this year.  That is where I am.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Bogeys and birdies.  Good start with birdies on 1, 2 and 3.
FREDRIK JACOBSON:  First hole I hit a 54 degree green wedge to a foot.

2, I hit 54 degree wedge again to six feet.

I hit a 60 degree wedge on my third shot to tap in
Q.  Birdied 12.
FREDRIK JACOBSON:  9 iron to 12 feet.

13, 7 iron to 20 feet.

18, I hit a wedge just short of the green and made it off the fringe; it was 35 feet
Q.  Chipped that in.
FREDRIK JACOBSON:  I putted it off the fringe.
Q.  Any danger of bogeys out there today?
FREDRIK JACOBSON:  I had a few after them three birdies.  I got a little aggressive on 4, 5, 6, and 7.  I ran all those putts by.  I had 4 four footers in the road coming back.  It was a little sweaty there after the good start.  I managed to make those and kept it going.
Q.  You said you did well with six rounds in a row.  How hungry are you for a victory over here?
FREDRIK JACOBSON:  I am very hungry on victories.  The only thing I can do is control myself and feel that I control my game.  I haven't done that for a while.  Before these last four weeks.  I feel like I have given myself a lot better chances.  That is where I choose to put my focus at the moment.  Just because you are thinking that you want to win a tournament, that is not going to make you win it.  I tried probably too hard to do just that for the last few months.  That is why I am stepping back, trying to find different parts to get me back in a situation where I have a chance.
Q.  Is that strange for you?  You have had such success in the past couple of years; is it strange to struggle?
FREDRIK JACOBSON:  It is hard.  I think when you play well for that long, your expectations on yourself are high.  You see yourself having a chance to win tournaments.  When it is only quite far from that, and you are still fighting as hard, it can be very frustrating.  You have to understand in that situation that it will help to try less.  I think that is what I had a problem understanding for a bit.  You burn a lot of energy out on the course for no good.  Sometimes I need to try less.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
FREDRIK JACOBSON:  I talk to my coach and I talk to other people or other players.  It helps if other guys share with me anything that can help to get somebody out of a bad time.  It is easy when things are going well.  You enjoy playing.  I have couple of people I speak to and I have done that the last few weeks.  The goals don't have to do with the results.  That has been good.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Fredrik, thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT