BOB HOPE CHRYSLER CLASSIC
January 28, 2005
Fredrik Jacobson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Fredrik, we appreciate your time.
FREDRIK JACOBSON:  No problem.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Great round yesterday, followed up another good round today.  Maybe just talk about your day and starting off with an eagle on the 1st hole.
 FREDRIK JACOBSON:  I started off playing well again, just like the first two days, and I made a good putt at the 1st for an eagle to get it started right away.  I kept playing well all the way.  The back nine was a little disappointing.  I missed some putts on the back nine with two three-putts.  I hit all the par 5s in two and shot 1-under, which was a little disappointing.

But I guess the good part is I could keep playing well, keep getting birdie chances to try to stay in contention.
Q.  Fredrik, what was working for you today?  And in terms of the back nine, what caused maybe some of the struggles that you were talking about?
 FREDRIK JACOBSON:  I mean, it wasn't really -- I think I had two three-putts.  I hit a couple of putts too firm.  I thought I had it and then it went by a few feet and didn't make it on the way back.  And then on the way back, the long putts, knocked them by, as well.

I missed quite a few putts left to right, a few more than I thought.  It's just the way it goes sometimes.  You pick a line and you hope you've picked the right one, and that didn't happen on the back nine.

I putted well yesterday and I feel like I'm striking the ball well, and hopefully I'll get off to a better run with the putter tomorrow.
Q.  What do you think of the five-day format?  Does it favor a guy like you?  It's unusual.  What do you think of it?
 FREDRIK JACOBSON:  I think it's a great tournament.  I mean, all the courses are in fantastic shape.  I mean, it's great weather to be playing in, and I think it's just a great tournament for the game, to try to get it in shape and stay patient and you get a lot of chances if you're playing well.  And you have a chance to put some good scores up there, which can be good for your confidence early in the season.  I think it's a great tournament and everybody gets to play at least four rounds, so players should be happy to play here early in the year, and I really enjoy it.
Q.  Fredrik, obviously you're not playing with any of  your fellow PGA TOUR players for the first four rounds.  Are you at all aware of what's going on around you?  Are you looking at score boards at all or are you pretty much focused on your own game?
 FREDRIK JACOBSON:  I try to focus on my own game.  We're all playing different courses, so it's kind of tough to know what's going on.  But as long as you play well here, you see a scoreboard every now and then, you run into one, but you don't pay too much attention.  I'm in the hunt, and hopefully I'll keep playing well tomorrow.  And I think Sunday is when it matters, when we find out which guys are in the hunt.
Q.  The Golf Channel showed that little clip of you and Jesper clothes shopping in New York.  What was that experience like and why didn't you pick up that mesh shirt you were eyeballing?
 FREDRIK JACOBSON:  We got to visit -- we did a little thing with the Lindeberg store in New York.  It was nice to get into New York and see it and drive a little bit around the town and have a little session in there.  That was good fun.
Q.  Especially being on the European Tour as well as over here, do you enjoy playing over here early when the weather has been perfect for you?
 FREDRIK JACOBSON:  I'm only playing here this year.  I'm not joining the European Tour this year.  I'm really planning to play full-time here in America.  Last year I tried to combine it because of the Ryder Cup, and it was kind of hard to travel back and forth, as I did the year before, as well, when I tried to play as much as possible here.  I'm coming off a couple of years where I really traveled back and forth between the tours.  It's tough to get 11 tournaments in in Europe.  I'm going to pass on it for this year and focus on playing here.
Q.  What's been the reaction at home, obviously because last year with the Ryder Cup as you mentioned, but your fans must miss getting a chance to see you play?
 FREDRIK JACOBSON:  Well, they do love the sport in Sweden and a lot of other countries, and I'll be playing the British Open in the summer.  Hopefully I'll get to play that.  That would be great.  We're going to spend a couple of months or six weeks in the summer in Sweden and play that tournament.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  If you wouldn't mind, you said you made a 10-footer for eagle there on No. 1.  Tell us about the birdies on 4 and 8.
 FREDRIK JACOBSON:  It's kind of tough to remember.  Birdie on 4, yeah, that was a par 5.  I lined up and hit a wedge shot up to ten feet, made that.

No. 8, I hit it up like 10, 12 feet or something.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  And then bogey on 11?
FREDRIK JACOBSON:  I three-putted from 15 feet or 20 feet.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  And then the two birdies on 12 and 13.
FREDRIK JACOBSON:  On 12, the par 5, I was just short of the green.  I pitched it up to about 12 feet past the hole and made it.

On the next one I hit a good 8-iron to four feet, made that.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  We appreciate your time.
FREDRIK JACOBSON:  Thank you very much.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT