BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
August 27, 2004
Fredrik Jacobson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








SCOTT CROCKETT:  Freddie, thank you very much for coming in as always.  A 65, a number of highlights, you must be very pleased with that effort
FREDRIK JACOBSON:  Absolutely.
SCOTT CROCKETT:  What was good today.
FREDRIK JACOBSON:  I think all parts were pretty good.  I was driving it all right most of the day.  Hit some good iron shots and gave myself plenty of chances and took quite a lot of them.  The first nine, really, before the back nine, I really had a lot of close ones on the first nine holes.  I pitched it on the 18th which made up for some of them close ones along the way there.  So that felt great there, because I had eight good chances, really, before coming to 18.  So, that was great.
SCOTT CROCKETT:  You birdied the second?
FREDRIK JACOBSON:  Yeah, I hit 5-iron up to 15 feet.

3, 7-iron to about the same.
SCOTT CROCKETT:  The last?
FREDRIK JACOBSON:  I hit my 3-wood on the second shot.
SCOTT CROCKETT:  You had a chance for eagle there, didn't you?
FREDRIK JACOBSON:  Yeah, I had just over 20 feet for a 3.
Q.  You had good recovery on 6 after putting it in the water; kept the round going.
FREDRIK JACOBSON:  Yeah, it was a tough shot to take on but at the same time it didn't feel too easy with the slight -- played a low cut shot to lay it up.  It was still a tricky one.  I didn't know where it was going to end up.  With the tree in play, I could still put it in the water.  I decided to take a gamble and tried to go really low and if I had to putt for a 3, I thought that's great.  Kind of already knew if I miss it, it's going to be in the water and I just tried to save it.  That was a nice point to make that putt because it wasn't a nice shot from the rough over there in the water.  Yeah, that kept it going.
Q.  Just sum up your season so far, Fredrik.  How do you feel you're performed this year?
FREDRIK JACOBSON:  I'm very pleased.  It's the last year -- last year I probably rate that higher than this year, but it's definitely the second best season I've ever done.

Having had five Top-10s over in the States feels great.  I'm really proud of that.  I expected it to be tough going there not knowing any of the courses coming into the year.  So to do that, making ten Top-20 finishes in the whatever, 15, 16 starts that I've had, it's actually nice.  The highlight would have been if I would have won one tournament by now.  But at the same time, I feel I've had a chance, a few times I've been in position and that's all we can ask for, really.

If it goes your way and you win one, that's great.  If I win one before the year is over, I will consider it a very, very good year for me.  It still is, no matter what happens the rest of the year.
Q.  Do you feel you're a better player than last year?
FREDRIK JACOBSON:  I definitely feel comfortable in America.  I had a good opportunity last year to play a few before during this first full season over there.  I definitely feel more -- I know more courses, I know more about the setups and everything.  I did unbelievably well last year when I had the chances.

I had a lot of Top-10s when I was over there last year, as well.  Pretty similar, but I've been -- I've probably been closer to winning now when I've been over there in a couple of occasions.
Q.  How much time did you take off early in the year and did you come back a bit earlier than you might have done because of the Ryder Cup?
FREDRIK JACOBSON:  No, actually I haven't played any extra tournaments because of it.  I actually took more time off because we had a baby in May.  So actually, I only teed it up once in those five weeks and I was in second place.  That's when we had the baby.

So actually I had to pull out at a very bad occasion concerning the Ryder Cup points.  It was a tournament where all of the top players were in the field, everybody was there.  It was a lot of World Ranking points to play for, but that list is now out and I haven't played anything more in Europe than I had planned.  I followed the schedule that I set up apart from that thing with the baby where it changed my schedule a bit.  Unfortunately got five weeks off where I planned to have two weeks off at the most.  That was a bit of bad timing, but something you can't plan, so still delighted with what happened.
Q.  You partly answered the question I was going to ask.  Coming into this week, did you feel worried or disappointed, saying that you played well in America, that it may have cost you a chance of qualifying automatically for the Ryder Cup Team?
FREDRIK JACOBSON:  Yeah, of course you're worried.  I think everybody -- I don't think anybody has heard anything or is promised any spots this year for the Ryder Cup.  We are all playing for it.  We are all trying to prove ourselves to be the man to pick or the man to make the team.  I mean, it's the last call this week.  Certainly you feel the pressure that you want to do well.
Q.  Do you have a rough idea of what you have to do this week?
FREDRIK JACOBSON:  Yeah, I think I haven't counted exactly, it's a lot of people that could do that, but I think I need to make it automatically on the points.  I would think I would have been at that time least Top 3 in the tournament.
Q.  Considering where you are in the World Rankings, would you actually be annoyed if you don't get picked if you need the pick?
FREDRIK JACOBSON:  Yes and no.  There are other players outside of the team at this time that can't actually make the team this week that would well deserve a spot on the team, as well.  That would be unfortunate for me if that turns out to be the case; that those players have played so well lately, and that means that I don't get the pick.  I would be annoyed by the case that I've moved up these last couple of years to the position where I'm the No. 4 ranked European player in the World Rankings and did not make it.  That would be hard.  But that has nothing to do with the other guys or who Bernhard would pick.  It has more to do that I feel that I've been in contention so many weeks, and being up in the rankings these last two years, that I feel that I would be among the Top-12 European players.
Q.  Would you be annoyed with the system?
FREDRIK JACOBSON:  I'm not saying that I would be annoyed with the system.  I'm just saying that it would be unfortunate that I would feel that I played good enough to be -- I mean, that's the way it goes, sometimes, isn't it.  We still have two days to play and hopefully it works out fine.  I mean, it's always one or two guys that after this week they will probably feel that they would have wanted or deserved a spot on the team that's not going to be there.  There's only two picks and that's the rules.  We all knew beforehand what the deal is and that's fair enough.
SCOTT CROCKETT:  Thanks very much.  Well played.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT