QUICKEN LOANS NATIONAL
June 27, 2014
Fredrik Jacobson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Just from the numbers and just looking at the stats, you hit the ball pretty good today and the putter wasn't as sharp as it was in the opening round?FREDDIE JACOBSON: Yeah, I felt I played well.  It was pretty uneventful out there today, which is nice in a lot of ways.  I did have a lot of putts from reasonably close to the flag, but they were pretty much all downhill.  It was fast. The greens were fast this morning, and you've got to play a lot of break on those downhillers.  It was one of those, maybe I could have made a couple more if my putting was really on, but you've got to feel that touch when they are so fast.  You know, it's one of those, I just couldn't give a lot of putts a round.  I tried to drop them in and that's tricky.
Q. Did the golf course get faster?FREDDIE JACOBSON: Not really.  Only the greens but overall they are pretty receptive when you come in with shots but the surface was a bit faster than yesterday for sure.
Q. You got a bit pumped up after the par putt on 18.FREDDIE JACOBSON: When you felt like you've been playing well all day and I didn't want to shoot over par.  That was a nice four.  I was up in the trees a little bit with my tee shot.  I was happy scrambling with a four and getting out even for the day.
Q. You played well here at the U.S. Open.  Is there something you like about the golf course?FREDDIE JACOBSON: Yeah, it's a course that you've got to hit fairways, you've got to hit greens.  I was second to Anthony Kim one year here and was second at the U.S. Open coming into the back nine after Rory's -- far behind Rory. So I feel I've been up there a couple of times which is nice.  It's one of those you've got to keep playing well.  I've finished well and hit the ball well and managed my game well and so far I've done that this week.
Q. What made your round special today?FREDDIE JACOBSON: It wasn't a super special round today.  But it was a consistent one.  I played well and I hit a lot of greens.  Somebody told me I hit 14 greens.  I had a lot of good looks at it but most of the putts today were downhill or sliding putts. You know, you're not that far from the hole, but it's a lot of break.  You're playing two, three feet of break, a foot and a half, and you've got to hit it kind of dead right so you don't end up with 4- or 5-footers coming back.  Not a lot of good putts but I felt like I managed my round well.
Q. Do you like the challenge of a U.S. Open course?FREDDIE JACOBSON: Yeah, U.S. Open has been pretty good to me actually.  I've been contending a few times I feel like in the U.S. Open, and I've played well here a couple of times.  I do like the golf course.  But it's a tough one.  It's a tough walk.  It's tough to play.  It's just long and it's challenging.  So no time to rest out there.
Q. Do you prefer tournaments where the winning score is eight, 10-under rather than 20, 25?FREDDIE JACOBSON: I think so.  I mean, the rough is a little bit on the thick stuff for my taste this week.  You know, you can't catch a few lies.  I do like when you have a chance to create something from the rough, and if you're lucky with a couple lies, sometimes you can chop out, but I think the course is playing well.
Q. What will it take for to you win this tournament the next two rounds?FREDDIE JACOBSON: I don't know.
Q. What do you feel like you need to do well to win?FREDDIE JACOBSON: You've got to stay consistent.  You've got to keep hitting a lot of fairways and a lot of greens and stay away from mistakes.  Like most week, a little more premium on hitting fairways, but apart from that, pretty similar.
 
 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT