WACHOVIA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 6, 2004
Fredrik Jacobson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CHRIS REIMER:  Fredrik Jacobson, 6-under 66.  I last saw you at the Heritage.  Is there something you worked on during your time off or did you get away from golf a little bit?
FREDRIK JACOBSON:  I went away from golf quite a bit.  I needed a rest.  I haven't had more than a week off during the season.  I worked hard a few days and played some golf, but mainly it was about having a rest to get the appetite back.
CHRIS REIMER:  Talk about your round today.  Did you see a 6-under out there?
FREDRIK JACOBSON:  The course is in fantastic shape and it's a challenging course.  I was surprised to see that many scores down to 5 or 6 under.  After playing yesterday, I didn't play too great, I didn't really see this number.  I thought maybe one or two players would get to 5 or 6 under, but it seems the good weather helps a bit.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
FREDRIK JACOBSON:  I've been working for 15 months with my caddie, and I think he needed a little bit of a rest.  I had two weeks off and I am playing these two weeks coming up, and then three weeks off.  He wanted a bit of a longer break.  We're starting out at the Buick again.  I think it's just as important for a caddie to have his rest when he's tire, he's been out for a lot of tournaments, as it is for a player.  I know when I need time off, I take time off.  He has had his time off now, as well, preparing for later on.
Q.  Was playing over in the States a long-term goal for you, and talk about why you decided to play over here?
FREDRIK JACOBSON:  For myself and as a golfer, I've played most countries on the European Tour, and traveled around the world, South Africa, Australia, Asia, all over the world, and the main place until last year was in the U.S.  I never played a pro tournament over here.  It's been a long-term goal for me since '99 that I wanted to come over here.  Since then I've been focusing to play here.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
FREDRIK JACOBSON:  I think it's always good.  You get to play new courses.  Playing in Europe, you start learning the courses very good after playing a lot of years.  The conditions might vary a little bit from Europe, as well.

The main thing, I think three of the majors are played every year over here and one is in Europe.  I want to be able to compete in all of them.  I think it's the best place to be.
Q.  Is making the European Ryder Cup team on your mind?
FREDRIK JACOBSON:  It's one of my goals for this year.  Obviously, I'm not going back there to play too many events, but it's part of the plan for me.  The competition is hard over here.  I feel if I want to come over here and play, I need to focus most of my time on this Tour.  That's something I planned, I'm up there the points, even in the European rankings from the two events I've played.  Hopefully I'll keep playing well here.  The last 18 months or so I've played good enough to be on the team.  I just hope I can keep playing well.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
FREDRIK JACOBSON:  I haven't really seen a great deal from the whole field what the scores are like.  I was surprised there were that many guys that were 5, 6 under.  When it comes to the whole field, I haven't really looked at it yet.
CHRIS REIMER:  Thanks.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT