VOLVO MASTERS ANDALUCIA
November 1, 2003
Fredrik Jacobson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
GORDON SIMPSON:  It's been a very long day today and some great playing, maybe just one or two loose shots, as well.  How would you assess the whole day? 

FREDRIK JACOBSON:   From my point it's been a little bit up and down.  I think I came back a lot of times.  When I was in trouble, I recovered well on the next hole and followed it up by a birdie.  So that kept me in it all the time.  Just in the first round and early part of the second round today, second or third round, I felt I let a few slip here and there and I kind of lost the momentum a little bit.  But came back in in very good style after that.  So I was happy to be able to perform some good golf coming back after that double-bogey.  That pleased me a bit.

GORDON SIMPSON:  There seemed to be very much a head-to-head between you and Carlos the last seven or eight holes.

FREDRIK JACOBSON:   Yes, Carlos has been playing absolutely fantastic today.  He's been very solid.  I think I played good, as well, for the most.  I've been in a little bit of trouble, not getting up-and-down as much as I would have liked on a few occasions.  I had a few bunker shots the first round where I might have thought I had a better chance, so that's the way it goes.  I hung in and I'm in a good position for tomorrow, so looking forward to that.


Q.  Is there one area of your game that you can put your finger on this year that has led to this rapid improvement this season? 

FREDRIK JACOBSON:   I think I've played good for the last four years.  I've heard that before, but just think I've played more and have been around the top after Hong Kong.  I've just been better at setting goals and I've been working harder.  I mean, I try to do that all the time.  I don't feel any different.  It's not that I'm striking the ball much better or putting much better, but I feel that I'm having a good focus all the way.  I think I've got my head sorted even better than it was before.  I was quite happy with my mental side before, but I think this year it has been even better than before.  That's what I say would be the biggest improvement.


Q.  How do you explain the first nine holes of the day, you made birdies after your bogeys, how could you concentrate when you make a bogey? 

FREDRIK JACOBSON:   Yeah, I mean, that's the thing, you don't have much of a choice.  As long as you try everything you can, and I really did today, you've got to try to move on.  There's going to be a few shots lost around this course, especially the condition it's been.  The wind did slow down a little bit and gave us a better chance at some stages.  But it's a tricky course and you've just got to try to move on. 

I think I've done that very well today.  So that's all you can try to do.


Q.  When you came off the 11th green tonight, were you anxious to play the 12th or would you have preferred not to have played it? 

FREDRIK JACOBSON:   No, I think I was quite happy to play.  It was getting a bit dark but conditions were fine.  There wasn't much to say about it.  It was a fair call and good enough for everybody.  It was a good decision to call it off because it did get dark when we were putting.  So I think they made a good decision.  I would have liked to have finished with a 3, though.  (Smiles).


Q.  How much tougher were conditions this morning compared to Thursday afternoon when you shot your 64?

FREDRIK JACOBSON:   I think it was quite a bit tougher, at least for some parts, the early part of the round was tougher.  But it seemed to slow down a little bit on the back nine, or we got used to it, I don't know if it's either one of them two, but it felt like it got a little bit easier. 

GORDON SIMPSON:  Thanks very much for coming in and good luck the rest of the round tomorrow. 


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT