QUICKEN LOANS NATIONAL
June 26, 2014
Fredrik Jacobson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  What a good round of golf, particularly in the afternoon when the course started getting a little firmer?  FREDDIE JACOBSON: Yeah, it's a tough course the way it sets up and with all this rough, it's not easy, that's for sure.  I hit a lot of 3-woods just to try to hit fairways and left myself a little longer shots.  Put a few of them in the rough, makes for some tough holes. But managed to kind of give myself enough chances out there, and up-and-down when I was in trouble a few times, kept the round going.   Q.  You made a couple bogeys and then got it back and finished strong.  FREDDIE JACOBSON: My caddie, Lance, he hit me with the flag in the head after the two bogeys.  I said, "That should kick us back into gear."   Q.  Did he really?  FREDDIE JACOBSON: Well, took a little turn with it and got a little hit.  I think that should have snapped us back into it.  We made I think four birdies from there on in.   Q.  And now fresh greens in the morning to look forward to.  FREDDIE JACOBSON: Yeah, I'm just happy with the day right now, looking forward to a little rest.  Hopefully a little cooler in the morning.  A little bit of heat to deal with this week.   Q.  You actually missed six fairways today, but you were able to post a 4-under round.  How were you able to do it considering this rough is so difficult?  FREDDIE JACOBSON: I don't know.  I didn't know how many I had hit to be honest and I still backed down trying to hit more.  So I guess hitting eight, missing six; it's tight out there. It's a tough golf course.  I think when you're in the rough, if you can come in some angle, we can chase it up close to the green, maybe if you give yourself a good angle you can up-and-down it.  That's what I managed to do a few times.  When I did hit it well, I took advantage.   Q.  PGA TOUR tries to keep the pace of play up out here, and it happened quite often, a group is put on the clock for slow play.  Your group was put on the clock for so play.  When that happens what does that do to your rhythm and mentality?  FREDDIE JACOBSON: Sometimes you feel you deserve to be put on the clock but sometimes not.  I know now when we are standing in the group behind came walking in, they were 25 minutes after us today.  So we were 14 minutes behind the group in front of us.  We were put on the clock the group behind, so you figured we played 11 minutes faster than they did today. Today I was a little disappointed with it because we walk up the sixth hole, 3 1/2 holes to go, and the group in front is on the par 3 green just in front and we're playing five-minute gaps this week.  So it didn't really feel like we were, you know, behind when you're walking up. So those situations, it doesn't feel like it's deserving when you have more than a hole behind open and you have a couple holes to go, you feel a little upset about it.  It feels a little unnecessary.  But I see why they tried to keep it up.  My fellow Swede struggled a bit and birdied the last for an 80 or something.  If you struggle on this course and don't hit greens, it's going to take time, but we are still keeping up.  That's the way it goes.  I didn't agree with it today.   Q.  Do you think the PGA TOUR is consistent in governing pace of play out here?  FREDDIE JACOBSON: I don't know.  I'm not the one to answer that.  You'll have to ask those guys.   Q.  How much momentum do you think you can carry into the morning?  FREDDIE JACOBSON: Tomorrow is a new day.  I'm happy I got one good round down and tomorrow starts all over and we'll see what happens in the morning when we wake up, and I'll do my best out there.   Q.  Talk a little about your round.  FREDDIE JACOBSON: Well, this course is challenging the way it is with the setup.  They moved a couple of the tees up and there's a lot of rough and I can't really advance it too much in some spots.  Have to hit the fairway, so played a little bit defensive off the tee with a lot of 3-woods and hit driver where I felt I had to.  That was kind of my game plan today and tried to make scores with my irons and short game.   Q.  Did you think the afternoon was going to have more difficult conditions, the wind up a little bit?  What did you find with the wind?  FREDDIE JACOBSON: Normally it gets a little tougher in the afternoons, but especially courses like this and the greens are pretty fast, as well, so they get a little trampled up by the end of the day.  Normally it is; normally somebody gets it going in the morning pretty good.   Q.  You had a stretch of Top-20s for a good chunk of the early part of the season but a little rough lately.  Where do you feel your game is?  FREDDIE JACOBSON: I feel it's been close lately.  The last three or four tournaments, I had a third at Colonial and I had a few weeks after that where I've been kind of contending and been in the Top-10, Top-5 in the first couple of days.  I just haven't quite finished it off.  Last week I had a good final round where I was up in the Top-20 again. I feel I've been playing pretty solid for a long time now.  Had to do a little work early in the week.  My swing was getting a little bit long and a little inconsistent so I was struggling a little bit yesterday but got some good help from my coach, Sean Hogan.  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT