FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 5, 2014
Fredrik Jacobson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Can't be disappointed, 67.   Heck of a way to start on this golf course especially today.  
    FREDDIE JACOBSON:   Yeah, a little bit breezy.   Started playing really solid and made some putts coming in.   This is my fifth week in a row playing now so kind of key to kick it off, you have an early start the first day, starting to get a little bit tired.   
    Kind of important to get off to a good start and get that rest before tomorrow afternoon's tee time.   Really help you with that.  
   
 Q.   You know you're going to miss greens on this golf course.   It's just the nature of the beast.   
    How do you approach not only get it up and down but also putting yourself in position to make that as easy as possible?  
    FREDDIE JACOBSON:   Its a tricky grass around the greens and, you know, even more so if you happen to short-side yourself.   This grass I always find a little bit tricky.   You got to try to hit some iron shots with a little bit of extra margin.   You don't have a whole of error.   Hitting fairways is key, too, because that's the only way you can control the ball coming in there, otherwise you'll be chipping.  
   
 Q.   You mentioned five straight weeks for you. Just outside of the Top 70 in the world.   This is an important week.   Six weeks in a row playing next week.   
    Does that help you, does it get you out of bed in the morning to say just go out there and try and do this and get in the U.S. Open field?  
    FREDDIE JACOBSON:   Absolutely it's in the back of your mind.   Still, week 5 I got to take it a day at a time.   Try to give it my everything and rest as much as I can, look after myself and see if I can really keep that good focus going for the whole week.  
   
 Q.   What did you think, 67 is a great score?  
    FREDDIE JACOBSON:   Yeah.   It's my fifth week in a row playing now.   I've been playing pretty solid.   I do start to feel it and little bit tired.   
    It's an early morning start so just happy I settled into the round here and got everything going and played really well on the back-9.   Got a few birdies there.   Nice to have a good start.  
   
 Q.   You've had good rounds here before.   Does that start bringing back some good memories for you, what you need to do to play well?  
    FREDDIE JACOBSON:   It's a place where I really enjoy to play.   Like you said, I have been in contention a few times, few Top 5s here.   Try to draw on some of those memories and, you know, played a lot of rounds.   You know the course pretty well.   It's a tough track.   
    If you don't hit the fairways makes it very tough to hit those greens.   It's become a very challenging course especially with the bit of breeze going on.   Doesn't matter how well, you got to execute and play well and managed to do that today.  
   
 Q.   You can never win a tournament on Thursday but you can lose it.   When you look up there and you're walking back to the hotel now at 3-under, you got to feel good positioning-wise after 18 holes.  
    FREDDIE JACOBSON:   Absolutely.   Absolutely.   Like I said, having played this much lately I felt like the early tee time today, getting a little bit of break before tomorrow, I always feel that's a key time, you know, play in the Pro-Am like in the afternoon yesterday so it's a short recovery time in between and then this heat here.   You try to rest up as much as you can and give you everything.   Really happy to get through the first round okay.  
   
 Q.   Freddie, how often do you play a schedule like this so many weeks in a row?  
    FREDDIE JACOBSON:   I don't do that a whole lot.   I had another run a little bit yearly in the year where I played five in a row as well.   I'm just trying to see if I can play a little bit more and a little bit better.   That would be a good combo.   We'll see.  
   
 Q.   With the rain coming in Freddie, is it always good, you look at it as I got it out of the way, I got my round out, I won't worry about delays?   
    How good does it feel knowing if this rain comes in your score is already up on the board?  
    FREDDIE JACOBSON:   You don't want to sit around and wait to play one, two holes.   That doesn't help, especially after a long delay or you don't get done.   
    You're missing out on rest time.   No one knows with the delay I get even more time.   I need to get on with other things.  
   
 Q.   How did you handle the wind?  
    FREDDIE JACOBSON:   I mean it was enough wind to make it a little bit tricky but it wasn't like super windy or maybe one club wind.   So, you know, I like a little bit of wind.   I actually prefer that to no wind.   Kind of just the amount I like.  
   
 Q.   How about your second 9, the momentum?  
    FREDDIE JACOBSON:   Yeah.   I had a couple of -- good chance on my 10th hole, the first hole, lipped that one out.   I hit some good shots.   Just gave myself chances.   Eventually I made a few putts and that was the key.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT