CROWNE PLAZA INVITATIONAL AT COLONIAL
May 25, 2014
Fredrik Jacobson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Next thing you knew you had to make birdie on 18.   Tell me about your thought process on the approach on that?
FREDDIE JACOBSON:   Yeah, I mean I was off in the rough, so I knew I was going to lose a little bit of control.   I had to play a little bit right of the flag.   That was the sensible shot.   So I had to give myself like a 10, 15‑footer.   The green checks in a little bit from right‑to‑left, but it just came out flying a little bit too much.   I hit it a few yards too much to the right and it came out jumping a little bit more than I thought it would.   I had 135, and had to hit my sand wedge and it landed almost at the flag and just released over the back of the green. 

Q.   So with the chip, though, what was your mindset in trying to get that‑‑ obviously your mindset on how you thought it would react?
FREDDIE JACOBSON:   I chose to putt it.   I've been having pretty good pace throughout the week.   I thought at least if I putted I should get it to the hole and have a proper run at it.   Whereas if you chip from this grass it can be a little bit tricky.   And maybe checks off.   The greens have been fairly soft this week.   I just wanted to make sure I kind of gave it a good roll and I did.   And it was tracking the whole way. 
But everybody in the crowd helped me out, tried to get the ball to reach, and it almost does.   But it came up just an inch short.

Q.   What do you think about the week?   Obviously a shoot out with the No.1 player in the world. 
FREDDIE JACOBSON:   Absolutely.   Anytime you can get yourself in position ‑‑ I fell back a little bit on the front side.   I was happy with the way I played my way back in it.   Just birdied 11 to get back to par for the round.   And just really played solid from there on and felt like I could really have a pretty good chance on 17.   And I had a decent chance on 15.   I made some good putts on some other holes and kept giving myself good chances.   I was very happy with the way I played under pressure. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT