U.S. OPEN
September 2, 2010
Arnaud Clement
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. CLÉMENT/E. Schwank
  6-3, 5-5 (ret.) 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
  
  Q. Can you just describe the match out there today, your feelings about it?  
 ARNAUD CLÉMENT: Oh, can describe one set and a half. It was not so bad from my side. I played much better than past five weeks. So it was more than the last two sets against Baghdatis and the other weeks.  
 So, yeah, was happy about the way I played. But it's always strange feeling when you finish a match like this.  
  
  Q. I wasn't able to see the match. Was he showing an injury?  
 ARNAUD CLÉMENT: He twist his ankle. Yeah, he had to stop two games after. At one set 4-3 he twist his ankle, and then we stop at 5-all.  
  
  Q. Obviously you took the first set, playing well in the first set.  
 ARNAUD CLÉMENT: Yeah, I was very happy about the way I played, yeah. It was aggressive and was very focused every point.  
 So that's what I try to do, and that's what I did.  
  
  Q. You're playing Mardy next.  
 ARNAUD CLÉMENT: Yeah.  
  
  Q. Mardy has been playing spectacular tennis in this hardcourt season, and certainly going to be a crowd favorite out there. Crowd seems to give you a good reception. Talk about that match.  
 ARNAUD CLÉMENT: I know it's going to be in a big court. I know it's going to be for him it's going to be a lot of crowd and very good ambiance. It's gonna be, I don't know, maybe night session. It's possible. No?  
  
  Q. I would think with Mardy.  
 ARNAUD CLÉMENT: But the most important is he's playing unbelievable this tournament. I know it's gonna be very difficult. So I have no -- you know, I was supposed to lose first round here. Now I'm third round and I'm playing Mardy Fish.  
 So it's just gonna be maybe outsider in this match, and I'm gonna try to do my best. That's only thing I have to do.  
  
  Q. You've been on a lot of big stages before. You've been on the big stage here. I think we can safely predict that you'll be out there in your next match. Just your thoughts about just being back in that theater again.  
 ARNAUD CLÉMENT: Boy. Yeah, I already play couple times now on center court, on Armstrong, so for me it's not a big pressure for me. It's just very exciting to play on this court. I know this court, so...  
 Okay, I hope I'm gonna be good, very good. Because if I'm not very good, I'm gonna lose this match for sure, because Mardy is playing great.  
 So now let's play, and we'll see in two days.  
  
  Q. You're recently married, are you not?  
 ARNAUD CLÉMENT: No.  
  
  Q. I'm sorry. You've been on the tour for a long time. Can you make some observations about how marriage affects male players?  
 ARNAUD CLÉMENT: Oo, I have no idea. No idea really.  
  
  Q. I mean, is there a certain kind of - I'm not saying fear - but a certain kind of maybe hesitancy about getting married as a pro tennis player because you feel like you might take your focus off...  
 ARNAUD CLÉMENT: I think it's very tough to answer to this question in French, so in English is not possible for me. I'm sorry. (Laughter.)  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT