AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 28, 2001
Arnaud Clement
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  Did you have two speeches prepared? 
 
ARNAUD CLEMENT:  No, just one. 
 
Q.  Just one?
 
ARNAUD CLEMENT:  Just one, yeah.  I just have to change a few words if I win (laughter).  Good for that.  
 
Q.  Can you tell us how it felt to be in your first Grand Slam final? 
 
ARNAUD CLEMENT:  It was okay.  I was not very nervous.  Today he was just too strong for me.  Was too strong. 
 
Q.  What did you feel like, there was a changeover, you lost the first set, then it was 1-5, you were going out to serve?  What were you thinking then that you would try to do against Andre? 
 
ARNAUD CLEMENT:  Nothing special, just play my game.  I beat him two times just with my game.  But today, his game was two or three levels higher.  For me, it was impossible to beat him today.  I think it's impossible, yeah.  
 
Q.  Were you tired from the other match the other night?  Was that all a factor, fatigue?
 
ARNAUD CLEMENT:  I don't think so because at the beginning of the third set, I run a lot, everything was okay.  I run, I think, fast for me.  No, not tired.  
 
Q.  At the start of the match, before the first ball was hit, you walked out and had a look around everywhere.  What was your feeling of your first Grand Slam final? 
 
ARNAUD CLEMENT:  I was good.  When I play on the big center, I like to  -- when I walk on court, I have to see everything, public, big court, everything is here, here, here.  Always I do that.  It's not because it's a final I did it.  
 
Q.  Was it everything you thought it would be, apart from obviously not winning?  Did you feel it was such a big event for you?  It was obviously not a normal tennis match. 
 
ARNAUD CLEMENT:  (Translated from French.)  I've been trying to think for two days it was just a normal match.  Sometimes it was difficult to think that way, but when I walked on court, it was okay.  I thought it was just another tennis match.  
 
Q.  Do you think the way Andre played today, anybody could have beaten him from the baseline? 
 
ARNAUD CLEMENT:  On the baseline, I don't think so, no.  Maybe another game, serve-and-volley maybe.  I don't think so.  Not because I lost 6-4, 6-2, 6-2.  I really think this part of the game, he's the best.   
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT