AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 22, 2001
Arnaud Clement
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  Have you ever been through a tournament without losing a set? 
 
ARNAUD CLEMENT:  We have a little challenge with my friend, Sebastien.  For the moment, I can win.  I hope he is going to win tonight in four set (laughter). 
 
Q.  Are you surprised how well you've done at this tournament?
 
ARNAUD CLEMENT:  A little bit because in Adelaide and Sydney, I didn't play good tennis.  Now I play better and better.  I didn't play a seeded player for the moment.  I'm seeded, it's normal.  
 
Q.  How did you feel coming into this match?  A lot of people were saying after Rusedski had beaten Kuerten, that he would go in as the favorite.  Did that change your thinking about the match when you saw he won the other night against the top seed?
 
ARNAUD CLEMENT:  No, not really.  You know, Kuerten is very far from the baseline when he's returning.  Me, I'm in the court.  He don't like that  -- he doesn't like that (smiling).  
 
Q.  This is your second consecutive quarterfinal appearance in a Grand Slam.  Why do you think your game has stepped up to this level, and maybe further?
 
ARNAUD CLEMENT:  I think I play better in US Open.  My first match I play very good tennis today, but just my first match.  I don't know, I improve a lot my game the last year, and I continue in 2001. 
 
Q.  The glasses you wear, are they optical?
 
ARNAUD CLEMENT:  Yeah, it's prescription glasses.  I'm astigmat.  
 
Q.  Did you get a warning at the start of the third set, a time warning?
 
ARNAUD CLEMENT:  Yeah.  I don't think it's normal because I have to change my shirt, my headband, and my (indicating wristband).  Somebody told me after the match, my father also phoned, maybe Rusedski asked for warning for me.  I don't think it fair play.  
 
Q.  Do you always change everything after the end of each set?
 
ARNAUD CLEMENT:  Yeah, I have to change it, because it's so sweat.  
 
Q.  Can you talk about your quarterfinal? 
 
ARNAUD CLEMENT:  I don't know.  I don't know yet really.  I beat him the last time in Cincinnati, but he didn't play very good.  He beat me three times before.  He's a very good player.  I don't know what I can tell you.  I have to play my best tennis if I want to have a chance.  That's it.  I have time tomorrow to think about my match.  
 

FastScripts by ASAP Sports…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT