INDIANA UNIVERSITY BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
December 6, 2019
Aljami Durham
Joey Brunk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You had a little issue with second half turnovers against Florida State. Watching the film, was it playing too fast? What kind of things do you try to correct on Saturday?  
ALJAMI DURHAM: Just, you know, just being mindful of what's gone opponent in the game, being mindful of the time situation and just knowing the smart -- making the smart read. That's all, really.   
 Q.  Joey, how much did playing in the Big Ten factor into the transfer process for you, getting that opportunity, and what do you think about your first chance to get to play in league play?  
JOEY BRUNK: Obviously the Big Ten is one of the best in the country and I grew up watching a lot of Big Ten games and being from the Midwest, I mean, it's a great opportunity and I know we're all excited to get going.   
 Q.  For both Al and Joey, this is your first true road test, against a hard-nosed Wisconsin team. What do you do to calm your team down when the crowd is getting into it and make things more comfortable for some of the younger players on the team?  
JOEY BRUNK: You can start.   
ALJAMI DURHAM: Just reminding them to stick together and make sure we all are on the same page and just not letting ourselves get out of control or getting rowdy because ear won the road at Wisconsin and the crowd is getting rowdy. We are just going to stay together and stick to our day one rules and stick to our day one aspects that we stick to every day.   
JOEY BRUNK: Yeah, we're going to rely on our preparation and what we've done, and you know, kind of fall back on what's got us here to this point and be confident in that and have confidence in each other.   
 Q.  Justin's growth as a leader, what kind of growth have you seen from him and his different approach to the game this year?  
ALJAMI DURHAM: Justin was definitely grown since our freshman year obviously, but he's taken a step on bringing the younger guys in and just being more vocal as we've gone along, so I mean, he's done a tremendous job for us and he's taken a step each and every day in my opinion.   
 Q.  Joey, with the Jimmy B Classic coming up obviously with your father, does this game have any additional meaning for you what does it mean to play in a game that's associated with that cause?  
JOEY BRUNK: It's a great cause, and I have a lot of family ties with that, with grandparents and my Pops. Obviously for the time being, we're pretty locked in on Wake Forest, and we'll worry about that when the time comes.   
 Q.  For either of you, as veterans when you think about this, I know you've had some tight turns in November, but this being high-major opponents and big venues like on the road in the Big Ten, do you talk to guys about, this is the way it's going to be now and the rest of the year, you're going to have this, Saturday on the road, to a Tuesday big game to a Saturday Big Ten; you just have to get used to this grind, basically?  
JOEY BRUNK: I mean, that's why you come to Indiana. You come here to play in big-time games and big-time atmospheres. That's why we work as hard as we do over the summer, so your body can handle it and you can be ready when the opportunity's there.   
 Q.  I often see you in here early for games and late at night. Just your work habits, how has that developed over time for you, getting in some of the extra work?  
JOEY BRUNK: That was my only chance to ever come play at a place like a Butler or at Indiana was by doing more than other people were willing to, whether I was in high school or now. So my mindset is, why it's gotten me this far, why would I want to switch it up now.   
 Q.  Damezi had a pretty good game against Florida State and hit the three at the end. What have you seen from him, growing in confidence?  
ALJAMI DURHAM: Damezi has grown tremendously from his freshman year, too, as well and we all have confidence in Damezi. He's a great player and played great defense last game and he can shoot it, and we have confidence whenever he gets it and he's wide open, he'll knock it down. It was great to see him play really well last game and I know he'll continue to do it as the season goes on.   
 Q.  Archie was saying that rebounding is the one thing that really has to travel for you guys. Why do you think you guys have been so successful and what has to carry over in these games versus Wisconsin and the like?  
JOEY BRUNK: I think it's been a point of emphasis every day in practice, and you know, when you work on it, you talk about it every day and you have a lot of great kind of natural rebounders like Justin and Trayce, you know, guys that are competitive like Race and just kind of becomes a part of our team, and obviously at this point, we want to make sure that travels wherever we are, wherever we are in the country.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT