NBA DRAFT
June 28, 2007
Greg Oden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Greg, just a quick question, big man, obviously a big part of your game is going to be who sets you up.  Talk about playing with Brandon Roy.  Have you had a chance to talk with him and are you excited about that combination? 
 GREG ODEN:  Yes, I had a chance to talk to him and actually when I was in Seattle I texted him a little bit because he's from Seattle. 
 I've seen a couple highlights of him.  He's pretty good, pretty decent. 
 But to have somebody like him and all of the other guys, Rodriguez and Jarrett Jack and Fred Jones and all of those guys throwing passes to me, that will be nice. 

 Q.  Can you speak with Phil Knight?  And when you signed an endorsement deal with Nike was it in anticipation of being with Portland? 
 GREG ODEN:  That could have helped.  Could have happened.  Thank you if it did.  But I did get to see him when I was there at Nike.  He was strolling by us in Nike's.  He's a cool guy. 

 Q.  How old were you when you first started thinking about being the No. 1 draft pick, and how important was it to you? 
 GREG ODEN:  When I first started thinking about it was really after last season.  I know a lot of people talked to me about it; said that whenever you leave, you'll be No. 1.  But really I knew myself that I wanted to go to college and I wanted to be ready when I left.  So actually after the season -- well, about two weeks after, that's the break I took after the season.  But two weeks after is when I really started giving it thought. 

 Q.  What made you think that you were ready for the NBA? 
 GREG ODEN:  Me coming in, I didn't think we would be able to accomplish what we did, especially in college being able to make it to the National Championship and me to have a decent season like I did.  I didn't think I was ready for that.  I wasn't sure if I was ready for that. 
 But when I came in and we did it, it was like, well, I know I can improve because I've been playing with 50 percent because I didn't have my right hand the whole entire year.  So I know I can improve. 
 I think the next level is going to be really difficult, but I think as long as I improve and just keep working hard, I can play pretty well. 

 Q.  The Blazers have had some tough times the last few years and had some difficulties on and off the court; how ready are you to try to help turn that around, along with LaMarcus and Brandon? 
 GREG ODEN:  Well, I have 1:30 bed time limit, so I won't be out at night.  (Laughter). 
 Just all of those guys, those are great guys.  Just being around those guys, they are all great people, and they did have a bad represent, but I think Brandon and LaMarcus kind of turned that around and I hope that I can come and just push that along some more. 

 Q.  Leading up to the Draft, all of the talk was about you and Kevin and who would go first; now you're in neighboring states and in the same division; how long do you think all of that talk will continue? 
 GREG ODEN:  As long as we're both in the same league; I hope. 
 I know we're going to be connected for a long time.  Kevin Durant, Greg Oden. (Laughter). 
 He's a really, really good player.  I'm a pretty decent player.  So I hope things work out.  I would love to get way more championships than him.  He's coming, but he's not here yet, so he didn't hear me. 

 Q.  First of all, who were you on the phone with when you came in, and second of all, what was the, what did the Commissioner say to you when you got up there? 
 GREG ODEN:  He said, "Everything is about to slow down now.  Just enjoy this for next 24 hours and look out there and smile and then go follow her."  (Laughter) That's what he said. 
 I was on the phone with the radio station back in Portland.  They said they stumped the floor like they won the NBA championship once they called my name. 

 Q.  Any regrets about leaving the collegiate experience? 
 GREG ODEN:  Well, it was way more than enjoy; everyone who is here knows, going to college, that first year, it's the greatest thing ever.  So that's what I went through.  I had the greatest year of my life. 
 And just leaving Columbus is great and I loved being there, and it's hard to leave. 

 Q.  Are you going to go back? 
 GREG ODEN:  I'm definitely going to go back.  I've got David there, I've definitely got to go see him. 

 Q.  What about your degree? 
 GREG ODEN:  Oh, we already have plans of me doing that.  I don't know exactly when, but I do have plans to get the Ohio State University degree. 

 Q.  We know you know plenty about basketball and you have four or five endorsements already.  What have you learned about the marketing game? 
 GREG ODEN:  Oh, you try to throw some big stuff at me. 
 I know this first and foremost, you've got to know people.  If you know big people, then good things will happen.  So what I did is instead of meeting people up here and moving up; they started me up and I'm moving down. 
 So already, if I meet somebody and they want to do something and it's like, well, maybe not, then the big guy is like you know what, I just met him, he's a great guy, we're going to do it. 
 That's how I run, I start from the top and go down to the bottom. 

 Q.  This week has been rough on you with your scheduling; you caught a cold.  Just talk about this week and now that it's over, what do you plan on doing now that you know what your future is like? 
 GREG ODEN:  I think I get like two days to relax before I have to start practicing for Summer League.  Hopefully I get to go back and pack, because I think I get picked out of my apartment the 6th and I don't think they want to throw my stuff out, just saying. 

 Q.  Does this take any of the sting away from that Monday night game back in April against Florida? 
 GREG ODEN:  No.  Not at all.  I still lost.  They still won two National Championships in a row, and that doesn't change. 
 This feels good, but it's two different categories.  I'm always going to have that memory of that loss forever. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT