LPGA CORNING CLASSIC
May 24, 2008
Erica Blasberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Erica, thanks for coming in and joining us. You are the 18-hole leader. You're back with the 54-hole lead, tied for the lead. Can you just talk about the way you played today and going into tomorrow with the share of the lead for the second time this year.  
 ERICA BLASBERG: Yeah, you know, it feels good. I actually played pretty well today. I had a couple hiccups on the back nine. Just tough conditions, the last nine holes out there with the wind and everything. But everything feels good.  
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Let's go over the birdies and bogeys and your eagle too. You want to start with the bogey on 1?   
 ERICA BLASBERG: Yeah. Had a lie that I thought would make the ball go right, but it went left so just got in the bunker. Almost actually saved par with my putt.  
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: How far was the putt?   
 ERICA BLASBERG: Maybe 16 feet.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: The eagle on 2?   
 ERICA BLASBERG: I think I hit a 6-iron out of the rough and had maybe a 15-footer.  
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: How far was your 6-iron shot roughly?   
 ERICA BLASBERG: 170, I think.  
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: The birdie on 4?   
 ERICA BLASBERG: Knocked it close. I think I had a pitching wedge in and had a tap in.  
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Okay. Birdie on 5?   
 ERICA BLASBERG: I had a chip just short of the green and maybe a 3-footer.  
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Birdie on 7?   
 ERICA BLASBERG: I hit a 5-iron today. I think it was a little long, just by the way the crowd reacted, but it came back, and again I had a tap in.  
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Wow. Bogey on 11.  
 ERICA BLASBERG: Just a tough first putt. I was just off the green and then had a putt up the hill and broke completely the opposite way that I thought it would. So just a bad putt.  
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: How far was it?   
 ERICA BLASBERG: 3 feet, 4 feet.  
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: And the bogey on 13?   
 ERICA BLASBERG: The wind was swirling, and I took out a 5-wood trying to play it long and let it come back off the slope and it stayed up on the upper tier there. So it stayed back up on the upper slope and just an impossible putt coming back down. Actually, I almost saved par but maybe left it like 10 feet.  
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Okay. Questions for the co-leader?  
  
  Q. Have you been in this situation before where you have led after one round, dropped back, then bounced back?  
 ERICA BLASBERG: No. I haven't.  
  
  Q. How does that feel?  
 ERICA BLASBERG: It's kind of nice.   
 Yesterday I didn't go out as relaxed as I was the first day. But today I just kind of learned I guess a little bit from the day before, just go out relaxed and have fun. Today I did that, and it was kind of tough out there with the swirling winds but just kind of kept it easy out there.  
  
  Q. Did that eagle help to pump you up a little bit ?  
 ERICA BLASBERG: A little bit. It was nice. Started with a bogey. I'm like, all right, we've got to stay focussed for awhile. To eagle the next hole was definitely nice to make me a little more relaxed for the day.  
  
  Q. You missed a short putt; I think maybe it was the birdie putt on the back nine early?  
 ERICA BLASBERG: It might have been a par save on 11.  
  
  Q. A par save on 11?   
 ERICA BLASBERG: Yeah. It was a short little putt and I just -- I was playing it left then it went left, and I probably hooked it a little bit. I don't know it was just a bad putt.  
  
  Q. Are you surprised at the way the scores have been this tournament? Normally the tournament has been-- at least the last few years 20 below par and now you have a 7 at the lead after three rounds?  
 ERICA BLASBERG: A little surprised, definitely, because there's quite a few good players here this week. And, again, I think it's the swirling wind out there, and the fact that the first three days played so different than these last few days. And no one really had a really good practice round out here because it was cold and windy and rainy and couldn't really get a feel for the course. So that might be a factor too.  
  
  Q. What about tomorrow; what are your thoughts about tomorrow, being in the lead?  
 ERICA BLASBERG: I think I'm just going to go out with pretty much the same game plan, just playing good, consistent golf, just hitting fairways, hitting greens. Hopefully, make a few more putts tomorrow and try to play -- I'm sure it's going be windy tomorrow afternoon as well so just trying to get a better feel for the wind.  
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 ERICA BLASBERG: Yes. Earlier this year in our first event at the SBS in Hawaii I shared the lead with Annika so that was pretty cool.  
  
  Q. How did that work out for the final?  
 ERICA BLASBERG: I struggled my final round out there. I think I was almost taking it as a learning experience, playing with Annika in the final group on Sunday. And I don't think I quite was focused on my own game as much. But it was good because I learned a lot.   
 And I think tomorrow I'm just going be relaxed because that's just the what you got to do, you know.  
  
  Q. You used the word "relaxed" but do you also have to be aggressive? Or do you have to pick the times you are aggressive on this course?  
 ERICA BLASBERG: Yeah, as far as relaxed, I just mean my total mentality out there. But as far as shots, like individual shots, yeah, there's going to be times tomorrow where I am going to feel like I want to be a little more aggressive or go after a birdie just to put me in a good position or something like that.  
  
  Q. Do you have a number in your head that you think? Because this course hasn't given up a lot of low numbers except for your 7-under.   
 ERICA BLASBERG: I don't really have a number in mind. I'm going to go out and play golf tomorrow and see what the golf Gods give me.  
  
  Q. Having won before -- you're going to be paired with someone who has won before and also won a major. Is that any advantage or is it just a matter you're playing the same course and --  
 ERICA BLASBERG: No, it doesn't really affect me at all. I don't really think about it that way. I just kind of -- I'm just going to play the golf course.  
  
  Q. Having played Annika the first time out gonna give you at least a little way of knowing how to approach the round?  
 ERICA BLASBERG: Yeah, definitely. Because, like I said, when I was playing that round it was almost like I wasn't playing golf because I was watching her so much. I think I was able to learn a lot from that experience.  
  
  Q. Are you almost tempted to put on six layers of clothes tomorrow?  
 ERICA BLASBERG: I don't think so. (Laughing.) I'll -- even though I played well with all those clothes I don't think I could handle that.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Any last questions for Erica? Thank you, Erica. Good luck tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT