LPGA CORNING CLASSIC
May 23, 2008
Erica Blasberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Erica, thanks for coming in and joining us today. A little bit tougher day out there, but you're tied for second on the leader board going into the weekend. Can you just talk about today's round? 
 ERICA BLASBERG: Yeah. I kind of struggled hitting the ball today, and luckily I was had some really good saves out there on my front nine and was kind of scrambling out there for awhile. 
 Yeah, I just wasn't relaxed out there hitting the golf ball for some reason my first few holes. As the day went on, I started to relax a little more. I don't know if I was putting pressure on myself or what I was trying to do, but it just wasn't my normal game. So I think in the middle of the round it started going my way, yeah.
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Let's go over your scorecard then we'll start with questions. Birdies and bogeys. The bogey on 14? 
 ERICA BLASBERG: I 3-putted.
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: How far was the first putt? 
 ERICA BLASBERG: Maybe 20 feet. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: The birdie on 4? 
 ERICA BLASBERG: I had maybe an 8-foot putt.
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: What club did you use on the approach? 
 ERICA BLASBERG: A lob wedge.
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: And the birdie on 5? 
 ERICA BLASBERG: I had a chip, and it was about, maybe, 8 feet again.
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: The double bogey on 7; can you talk us through that? 
 ERICA BLASBERG: Yeah. I had -- I hit 4-iron today just kind of -- the wind didn't really take it back where I was planning on it to. Then the pin was back in the shadows and it was like on a weird slope, and I knew the slope was there, but I didn't trust it and my chip just kind of took off. Then watched my fellow competitor putt and she went way by. So I barely hit it and it still kept going, and then just didn't make the putt coming back.
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: How close was your chip? 
 ERICA BLASBERG: How far to the hole? 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Uh-huh.
 ERICA BLASBERG: 10 feet.
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Then was that a 3-putt? 
 ERICA BLASBERG: Uh-huh.
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: And the final bogey on 9? 
 ERICA BLASBERG: I was a little confused on the fairway what club to hit just because the wind was up, the wind was down. So I finally went with the 9-iron, and I had just barely got up to the slope. So I actually had to hit it hard but that was the club that I went to to hit less. But I had maybe a 30-foot putt, and it pretty much went in the hole and lipped out. I think it actually was a power lip out. And it took it -- it was only maybe a 4, or 5-footer and didn't make it.
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Okay. Questions for Erica?

 Q. Did you hit the a scoreboard out there? You took a drop out there somewhere. 
 ERICA BLASBERG: Yeah on Par 5. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: The 5th. You still made birdie.
 ERICA BLASBERG: Yeah, the 5th. I kind of pulled my approach shot then luckily I hit the scoreboard then I got a good drop.

 Q. Today was probably a disappointing round for you and of course the day before a good round. Can you take anything out of both rounds of what you did maybe yesterday and weren't able to do today and carry -- you are still obviously in contention and in good shape, you know, for the tournament?
 ERICA BLASBERG: Yeah. No, there's a lot of positives. I mean, I really didn't hit the ball well today. But I still was able to kind of keep it respectable for the most part today, as far as score. 
 And it did play harder today. It's drier out there, the wind's up, you're guessing a lot on your approaches. And if you get in the wrong spot on lot of these greens it's kind of tough to save par. So I think positively. I am putting pretty well, and I'm going to -- I don't think I can hit the ball worse than I did. So definitely going to hit the ball better this weekend. 
 And, I don't know, I always come to Corning and decide to throw a couple bogeys out there in the wrong spots. But it feels good.
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Better to get it over with on Friday.
 ERICA BLASBERG: Yeah.

 Q. You had a pretty decent size gallery out there. Have you been to places where you have had people starting to follow you especially as the leader?
 ERICA BLASBERG: Yeah, I love the gallery. So I've definitely have been in positions where I've had big galleries out there. So it's always nice to have them. It kind of keeps you kind of focused like when the times kind of goes a little bad. Like you have the gallery there to kind of like root you on. It's nice to have them out there.

 Q. Is it safe to say that the winds today were a bigger factor than yesterday's cold?
 ERICA BLASBERG: Yeah. Because cold and rainy, I mean it's uncomfortable but everything's consistent. But today I mean I pull off -- I don't usually pull off shots, and I backed off maybe four shots today, approaches. And it's just -- it's tough. Especially when you are trying to protect a little bit. You know, I was trying to protect a little bit the lead and I didn't want to do something totally wrong.

 Q. You talked about being a little bit nervous. Do you think that had anything to do with having a two-shot lead?
 ERICA BLASBERG: I don't know if I was nervous. I just wasn't relaxed. Again, I might have been trying to protect the lead, or a little psychological things that get in your head maybe that I just didn't swing the way I normally swing in the beginning today.

 Q. Do you feel lake maybe not many people made a run today so it's there for the taking kind of?
 ERICA BLASBERG: Yeah, definitely. Again, the course did play a little tough today. But yeah it's a little disappointing knowing that no one really scored and I did have opportunities.

 Q. Taking you back to when you were here a few years ago, you shot a really good score and that was in the very early round. Are you more comfortable in the morning playing than you are with the afternoon, or is that just how it turned out here those two rounds?
 ERICA BLASBERG: Yeah, it really doesn't matter to me. I mean, the morning, obviously, you don't typically have wind to contend with. But if you in the afternoon that means you are playing well, at least on the weekend, so I'll take it.
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Any more questions? All right. Thanks for your time, Erica.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT