GREAT AMERICAN INSURANCE ATP CHAMPIONSHIP
August 8, 1996
Jim Courier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Was the delay a factor?
 
 JIM COURIER: No, I mean, I actually felt better after the rain delay than I felt the
whole match, but Wayne just played very well. The last set I made a few errors; missed not
by much, but he came out and played a lot better. 
 
Q. What do you do during the delay, just kind of sleep?
 
 JIM COURIER: Hang out. Hang out. Just whatever comes to your mind at the time. 
 
Q. Did the delay break you? I mean, you were seemingly getting into the match --
 
 JIM COURIER: Well, just like I explained, I felt better, actually, afterwards, but it
just didn't work out and, you know, I guess Wayne really, he didn't make any errors there.
I don't know what the stats would be, but he seemed to be pretty sharp and I made a
couple, you know, missed a few balls by here and there and that is usually the difference
against a good player. 
 
Q. How does a match go to tiebreakers and all of a sudden the last set is not as close,
not nearly as close? 
 
 JIM COURIER: Is that a rhetorical question? I mean, it should be fairly obvious, no?
Anything happens in sports. There is not always an explanation for what happens in sports.
If we knew what was going to happen, why would you and I even show up? That is why sports
is great because you never know - the unexpected is expected. There is no reason for
matches to go to tiebreakers and to not go to tiebreakers, it just happens. 
 
Q. Did you have a sense early on in the set that Wayne was feeling good and was on at
that point?
 
 JIM COURIER: No, not really. 
 
Q. But you didn't feel that your play went down?
 
 JIM COURIER: No, I am telling you, I felt better. I don't know if my shots went better,
but I felt like I was hitting the ball better and I had a better idea of what I wanted to
do, but, you know, can't work out all the time. 
 
Q. You felt physically better too probably, it was a little cooler afterwards?
 
 JIM COURIER: Well, this wasn't that much of a physical match, really. 
 
Q. Not even before the delay?
 
 JIM COURIER: Not really because it got nice and cool. A pause like that usually means
you can ask for one more question. 
 
 JIM COURIER: Thanks. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT