GREAT AMERICAN INSURANCE ATP CHAMPIONSHIP
August 6, 1996
Jim Courier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 JIM COURIER: You know I hate when you do that. 
 
 JIM COURIER: First question. (AUDIENCE LAUGHTER) 
 
Q. Jim pretty good match to get you into --
 
 JIM COURIER: Certainly difficult match and I really haven't played many matches since
the French Open, so, you know, it is always difficult-- more difficult to get the mind
going than it is the body. The body is willing, but the mind, you know, takes a while to
turn it back on and get into the intensity. So I am happy with the fight that I showed out
there and stayed with it the whole way and that is the best thing about that match for me. 
 
Q. Can you talk about some of your training and preparation since you haven't been
playing a lot of tournaments? 
 
 JIM COURIER: Yeah, I have been practicing, just normal practicing trying to stay out of
-- I actually practiced out in California at some friend's house, friends' of mine house
to try and avoid the humidity as much as possible. In the summer, it is kind of beachy, if
you stay there all the time. 
 
Q. Do you train with that same intensity as you used to?
 
 JIM COURIER: I think at this stage of my career I really don't need to, to trade with
that recklessness that I did when I was younger. Right now I know what I need to do to get
myself ready and I don't have to beat myself up quite as much. 
 
Q. (Inaudible.)
 
 JIM COURIER: They are very, very big point tournaments so it certainly helps your
ranking if you do well and it is very important -- it is important to do well mentally
because you are playing against the best players. 
 
Q. How much is a tough first round like this a factor and how much is it a factor that
the better players knowing that they are going to be around longer (inaudible)--
 
 JIM COURIER: I think that -- I certainly wasn't pacing myself out there. You can't
afford to. And ever since I have been playing, you couldn't afford to. I think that there
has always been, you know-- guys are always good and getting better, for sure.  
 
Q. Jim, you had the option of being on the American team for the Olympics and you chose
not to. Did you watch much of it and if you watched any of the tennis, did you feel that
you liked to have been there?
 
 JIM COURIER: I didn't see any of the tennis. I didn't know that it was on at all on
NBC, frankly. And I didn't miss being there at all. I really enjoyed watching it on
television and I enjoyed watching the events that I like to watch at the Olympics, like
the gymnastics and the swimming, diving, track and field, and some other sports that you
normally -- you just don't see all the time and in my opinion, we are in the spotlight,
you know, basically all year round, every year, and I think it detracts from the games
when professional athletes that have their moments every year are in there stealing time
away from the athletes that train for four years for that one particular moment of -- I
think it is not really what the Olympics spirit is about, in my opinion. That is why I
wasn't there this year. Grant it, I went to Barcelona; didn't enjoy the tennis event. I
enjoyed being in the village and the opening ceremony, but the actual tennis is a bit of a
let-down because it is just the same old, same old; same as this week, actually weaker. 
 
Q. Does that extend to the dream team? 
 
 JIM COURIER: Absolutely. I think they are making a big mistake if they put baseball and
football in, but Samaranch, he is a greedy, greedy person. 
 
Q. Do you think that even though you won a gold medal and Andre missed out by not
staying in the village and staying out in Stone Mountain --
 
 JIM COURIER: If you want to seriously compete in the Olympics, you can't stay in the
village. So that is simple. If you are, quote unquote, celebrity, which he most certainly
is, he would be hounded to no end and I was ranked No. 1 in the world when I played the
Olympics and I was hounded and I am no where near as possible as he is, so I could only
imagine of what it would have been like for him. 
 
Q. Jim, how much of a factor was the heat and humidity out there; both of you were
battling it, obviously, and it was a very long match and is it likely to drain you as you
go forward in the week?
 
 JIM COURIER: If it stays warm, certainly the conditions will play a part in the
tournament and normally I do better the most in extreme conditions. It was a night match
tonight so we had only the humidity to contend with; not really the heat. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT