U.S. OPEN
September 5, 1995
Jim Courier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Jim, would you say that the guy who has the responsibility of cranking that net up
to just the right tension did a pretty good job?

JIM COURIER: Are you referring to the points in the tiebreaker? That was just right.
Yeah, it is nice to get a break like that. It seems like the net cords haven't been going
my way too much this week. But it is funny, they didn't go my way when I was playing
Australia. I played Adelaide; I must have got 40 net cords that went the other way and I
ended up winning the tournament in singles and doubles. Maybe that is a good sign for me
when they don't go my way.

Q. You don't see too many net cords long?

JIM COURIER: No. That was very pleasant.

Q. Jim, the ranking says you are down at 14. But if this was like a hypothetical thing
like boxing or college football, where do you think you would be ranked in the world, if
it was just -- 

JIM COURIER: I think that the ranking reflects how I have played the past year no
doubt. I think on good days, I am a much better player than my ranking reflects, but now,
I have to parlay that to some better results along the way and I think the computer pretty
much speaks the truth most of the time, so I don't feel like I am being slighted by the
computer at all.

Q. Do you feel right now that you beat the No. 3 player in the world or do you feel
like you beat a clay court specialist that you should beat on hard courts?

JIM COURIER: Personally, I feel like -- I feel pretty good going out against Thomas on
any surface, even clay. Obviously, what a great year he has had. He deserves all the
credit he is getting because he is having a phenomenal year, but I wish we could turn back
the clock and be in Paris right now, me playing like this, but we can't, and, you know, we
are in New York and I am playing pretty well here and that is not too bad either.

Q. Why is that; because so many times you hear people say --

JIM COURIER: We are going to play the same match on any surface. We are going to play
that kind of match on clay. It is going to be power versus power, the same thing.

Q. As far as we know, there is nothing that really changed dramatically in your life
unless you can clue us in and tell us why you are suddenly playing like Jim Courier 1993?

JIM COURIER: I just feel pretty good. I felt pretty good about Wednesday before the
tournament - I started feeling pretty good, and when I feel good, I usually play well. I
don't think there is any real secret.

Q. Do you feel like you are in enough of a rhythm where you can win this thing or...

JIM COURIER: I am taking it one match at a time. Cliches are a good thing. No reason to
look any further when you got Michael Chang in front of you, you can't afford to.

Q. What do you have to do to beat Michael?

JIM COURIER: I think if I play like this, you know, just play all the match all the way
through at a very high level, that is what I am going to have to do. I am going to have to
play some of my best tennis, for sure, because I know Michael, he is probably one - he is
the toughest guy out there to beat all the way through. He is is a guy that never gives
you an edge. You have to beat him. And, you know, I am looking forward to the challenge.

Q. Jim, you played some tough guys on hard court this season, I think probably since
Tokyo. I don't think it is the first time you really beaten one of the top players - I
guess, top 3 or top five guy. How big a deal is that for you?

JIM COURIER: I mean, it is a good time for it, but I don't want to get - go outside and
start doing cheerleading exercises or anything like that. It is one match, and I am very
happy that I am playing well, but I don't want to make more of it than it really is. I
have got to keep my feet on the ground and keep moving because this tournament is getting
nothing but harder, that is for sure.

Q. When you are playing this confidently and you then go look at the tape, how does it
show in your game as it might if you looked at your tape of today's match against Muster?

JIM COURIER: Well, basically just going for my shots. When I am confident, I go for
them, and, you know, more times than not, I am going to make them when I am feeling on
top. It is a cryptic answer...

Q. Are you playing better now than you did back then?

JIM COURIER: That was then; this is now. 

Q. 6-Love in the second set surprise you?

JIM COURIER: It's a good score, it's a happy, pleasant surprise. I didn't expect to
beat Thomas 6-Love, but, you know, you got to keep going. If you get ahead 4-Love, no
reason to say, well, let us bag this set, 6-2. Go out and keep him under your thumb as
much as possible.

Q. Did you really have it in your mind to beat a top player?

JIM COURIER: Had it in my mind that I should beat Thomas, yeah.

Q. Now going to the next round, you feel confident like you just beat the No. 3 player?

JIM COURIER: Well, I get confident knowing that I played a very good match, yeah. That
helps.

Q. You dropped in the rankings from 1 down to 14 or 15 and I think the general feeling
was that -- the word on the street was that you may be overtrained; burned yourself out.
Is that a fair assessment or is that just all wrong?

JIM COURIER: Well, I don't think so. I think that, you know, sometimes you have to take
some steps backwards to take some more steps forward, and whatever reason, I really
haven't pinpointed the reason for, you know, not playing as well in the past couple of
years as did I in the other years previous to that. I haven't pinpointed it, and all I
know is that that is the way it is, and today I am playing well, and I am going to try to
keep playing well for a good long time.

Q. Is there something you learned from that time from --

JIM COURIER: I learned I hate losing. I have always known that, but you really find it
out when you lose a lot.

Q. How hungry are you to get back to No. 1?

JIM COURIER: Pretty hungry. I haven't had anything to eat for a couple of hours.

Q. You like your chances against Thomas? You kind of both stay back...

JIM COURIER: I think that we play pretty similarly. Although he is lefthanded, I think
that we try and do the same thing as basically from the back of the court, and if I am
serving well, hopefully, I am going to get some more free points and then he is on his
serve and on the baseline; I think I match up with him fine. I think I can hold my own or
do better.

Q. This guy is playing you five to ten feet behind the baseline. How do you exploit
that in your game plan? 

JIM COURIER: I stand right on the baseline and make him run back there. It is tough to,
you know, if guy is standing on the baseline and not missing, and you are standing five
feet, or further back, you know, you are taking bigger risk if you go for a big shots, so
I like to be aggressive.

Q. Jim, do you feel like when you were No. 1 is that -- Pete hadn't matured yet; Stefan
was starting to slip and Becker was down and Andre hadn't come up yet. Do you feel like it
was a time of opportunity for you?

JIM COURIER: Oh, it was pure chance. I should have never gotten there. Next question.

Q. Ever cross your mind when you let Thomas get that break back in the third that he
has a history of really just grinding out long five-set matches; did that ever cross your
mind?

JIM COURIER: A little bit of. I was trying to close the door on him. I didn't do a
great job of it. But I hung in there and I got the job done. I am sitting in here now
instead of the fourth set, I am thankful for that.

Q. Jim, you said repeatedly during this conference that your confidence level against
Muster is high because you play him well. But you are 1 and 2 against Chang this year so?

JIM COURIER: 1 and 3.

Q. So how is it going to be different two days from now? Are you going to be able to go
out there and take whacks at the lines?

JIM COURIER: I think some -- that is what I need to do. That is what I am going to have
to do.

Q. Jim, back at the French Open, you are playing Alberto Costa and your money shot,
inside out forehand, a lot of nets; a lot of misses off that one, but today you are
hitting that ball consistently. What is the difference? What are you doing differently
when you are making that shot as opposed to missing it?

JIM COURIER: A lot of it is in confidence and a lot of it is just, you know, physically
feel a lot better now than I did then. And hitting that shot, basically, it's a confidence
shot. That is my money shot. If I am not hitting that one well, I am in trouble. That is
pure confidence.

Q. Slightly off beat question. You are -- a number of top players relax with rock music
and you do too. Any obvious link for tennis players --

JIM COURIER: I don't know. I mean, for me music is like, you know, it is almost like a
different language and I Love to just kind of lose myself in it. For me, it is almost
therapeutic, you know, just put on the music and it takes me away to another place - which
is what I like about it.

Q. Jim, Michael talked today about whenever the top four Americans play each other
there is something a little extra special about the rivalry. Do you feel that against him?

JIM COURIER: Well, I know we have tough matches, for sure, and I don't put any extra
weight one way or another on it. It is a match against a good player and I know I am going
to have to play at a high level to compete and that is about as much as I put into it.

Q. What changes do you see over the past year in his game?

JIM COURIER: Past few years he has added a pretty solid net game and obviously, he is
serving with a lot more heat right now, although, he tends to not have a very good service
percentage, but that is a trade off. You take more risk, obviously, you are going to miss
a few more. And he is playing with a bit more aggressiveness and, you know, Michael is a
very intelligent person and is a very intelligent player and I think he is real thoughtful
about where he wants to go with his game, and, you know, what I respect about him is that
he has not been afraid to add things to his game; and take a few steps backwards, lose
some matches trying to do it. In the long run, that pays off.

Q. Have you made any major changes in the way you train and prepare the last two years?

JIM COURIER: Not really.

Q. You mentioned feeling physically well twice now. Were you not feeling so well
before?

JIM COURIER: Well, this year, I have had some ups and downs just, you know, I have had
a tough schedule at the beginning of the year and, you know, when you don't have as much
time to train, you -- obviously you are not as fit as you want to be and -- but there is,
you know, when you get asked to play Davis Cup when it doesn't fit your schedule,
sometimes you have to just bite the bullet and do it, and, you know, it is not your best
interest, but in the long run it, is really, so, you know, those things are -- everyone
goes through them. Obviously I am not the only one and we all make -- due the best we can.

Q. Talking about rock and roll tennis, do you think the Jensens are good for tennis?

JIM COURIER: I think they bring a lot of people that possibly wouldn't come to watch a
normal tennis match. That is good. 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT