THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 20, 1995
Jim Courier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.  Hi, Jim.  What has been the differences when you have
lost to this guy and have beaten him, if there is a general --
is there a general consistent theme?

 JIM COURIER:  Today is just -- it was just a case really that
I didn't play very well and that is going to be tough for me to
beat a player that is clever like Mark, if I am not playing well.
 I just had one of those days, didn't come, and I haven't had
too many so far this year and, hopefully, I won't have too many
more.  I will have to try and fight through it.  I tried to fight
through it today and unfortunately couldn't quite get through
it.

 Q.  Jim, you played Mark a number of times.  When you do play
him, does your mind flash back to wining the previous matches
that you had against him?

 JIM COURIER:  Well, I mean, I try and take what I have done well
against him in the past and keep that in my mind on what I need
to do to beat him.  I have a general idea because we have played
a lot of matches together and we do practice on occasion also
in Palm Springs, so, you know, we are very familiar with each
other's games.  I don't think there is many surprises out there.


 Q.  He is a player that can do so many different things against
you.  Is that pretty frustrating out there?

 JIM COURIER:  Well, this is the fourth time I have played him
this year, and he did the same things today that he has done the
other times and I beat him pretty handily the other times.  It
is just -- it was more me than him today, I think.

 Q.  Take a few days off and get on clay?

 JIM COURIER:  I am not going on the clay for another couple of
months.  I am going to Asia.

 Q.  How much of the fact was the wind today?

 JIM COURIER:  Well, the conditions are the same for everybody.
 I am from Florida, so I generally adjust better to the wind than
most people, but, you know, I don't know if that had anything
to do with the way I played.  Maybe it did.  Maybe it didn't.
 But, you know, that is a poor excuse, because it is the same
for both players, so I don't really want to use that as an excuse.


 Q.  I kind of just meant fairly -- I am not --

 JIM COURIER:  It was a normal Florida breezy kind of day.

 Q.  You have been able to turn around last year into a good
start this year.  I think I have read that you are trying to be
more relaxed in your approach - I don't know if that is true.
 Do you feel good about continuing that approach?

 JIM COURIER:  I am just going day-by-day.  I am taking things
as they come - just like anybody else.

 End of FastScripts..... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT