THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 13, 1994
Jim Courier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Just a slow start, Jim?

 JIM COURIER:  Yeah, I just-- I didn't start off serving too well
there and kind of set a tone for the way I played in the first
set.  I finally got my serves together a little bit in the second
and the third and that really helped me out to get some free points
I needed.  Jeff was playing pretty well.

 Q.  Did you see him go for your racket back there?

 JIM COURIER:  Yes, Jeff's got quite a personality.

 Q.  Did you see him showing off his muscles to the crowd;
did you see that?

 JIM COURIER:  Yes, my peripheral vision caught that, I wouldn't
look at it.  I have seen Jeff's body, it is not a pretty sight.


 Q.  Were you a little surprised when you saw Stefan take the
wild card?

 JIM COURIER:  Stefan took a wildcard here?  I had no idea.

 Q.  You knew he was playing the tournament?

 JIM COURIER:  I saw him here, I don't really look at the entries,
so I just kind of see who shows up.

 Q.  You know it could have moved you around in the draw?

 JIM COURIER:  I don't pay much attention.

 Q.  Do you know who you play next?

 JIM COURIER:  Yes, I just found out.  I do know that, that's
all I need to know.

 Q.  How satisfying was tonight or was the slow start discouraging
to you; do you feel you need to eliminate that from your repertoire?

 JIM COURIER:  I certainly would like to eliminate it from my
repertoire.  Slow start is not something you want to keep in your
bag of tricks, but, no, I'm very happy that I was able to come
back and, you know, I played some good tennis in the second and
third sets, and, you know, just played intelligently.  That's
a real positive sign for me.

 Q.  Do you feel a reason to be fresh and motivated at the
moment?

 JIM COURIER:  Yes, feel very good.

 Q.  As strong as the men's game is right now, you and Pete
and even like the up and comers, Todd Martin, can you get a sense
of the women's game missing players and they've got no sponsor
and now no executive director --

 JIM COURIER:  Well, it certainly-- I think it's difficult to
create excitement when you have a girl that hasn't lost a match
since the number one player got hurt.  I think that creates a
little bit of a stigma, kind of an asterisk situation which is
kind of undeserving, nothing to do with Steffi, she had nothing
to do with it and she has been the benefactor of it through no
doings of her own and certainly is playing fantastic tennis, but
I think that it is a little bit-- it's just too much of a foregone
conclusion that she's going to win tournaments and I think no
one likes to see a sure thing.  That's what men's tennis has going
for it is the parity.  People can come out to a match today--
I'm playing guys not even ranked in the top hundred, and guys
I know have played many times and played tight matches with and
know it's going to be tough, but they think, well, here's a top
guy playing out of the top 100 and he should cruise, and certainly
on the women's side that happens and that doesn't happen for us.
 Sometimes it does.

 Q.  One of things Steffi mentioned about the reason that there's
a gap between her and the others, she thought a lot of the other
players didn't work hard enough for it.  Do you think the men
players generally work pretty hard to get to the top or is there
complacency in the middle ranks as well?

 JIM COURIER:  I think that-- I think that most of the guys on
the men's side in the singles really work hard.  The women's side,
I mean, Steffi, you look at her body, she's got very, very little
body fat, she's extremely fit and I look at a lot of the other
girls and I can't say that.  They're fit, but not relative to
Steffi.  She's in a whole another level.  She's kind of like Martina
was maybe eight, nine, the ten years ago, I can't remember, when
she went on the diet and started weight training and took off
and Steffi is kind of there, right now.

 Q.  Do you feel like the men kind of have to carry the women
through the sport right now?

 JIM COURIER:  I wouldn't say that.  Don't put any words in my
mouth.  I don't need that grief.

 Q.  Jim, do you change anything about your preparation for
this season knowing the kind of run that Pete has been on?  Does
Pete's success alter anything you do?

 JIM COURIER:  Not at all.  Anybody's success doesn't change the
way I approach the game.  I'm playing for me, not for them or
for anybody else.  So, you know, I'm kind of in my own little
tunnel with my blinders on and what everybody else does is great.
 I'm just worried about what I'm doing.

 Q.  Yeah, but he said he used you a little bit as an incentive,
that you having won the French and it showed him that he could
do it, he could win Grand Slams; are you learning from him at
all?

 JIM COURIER:  Everybody has their own way of motivating themselves.
 My motivation has always been me, seeing how good I can do.

 Q.  Which is the most important tournament for you after the
Grand Slam and Davis Cup?

 JIM COURIER:  I don't have one in particular.  Not one in particular.
 It would be tougher to pinpoint one after that.  Probably the
Grand Slam Cup.  I want that.  A million six, that's what I want.


 Q.  Are you agreeing with the new ranking system?  Is it good
for you?  What is your opinion?

 JIM COURIER:  I don't even know much about it.  I know what I'm
doing, I know they've added points for the Grand Slams which I
think is something that should have been done before, and, you
know, the points-- the tournaments should be weighted by their
value to the game of tennis and that's the way it should be done
and that's what they're doing now, so I'm in agreement with that.


 Q.  Thank you. 


  End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT