ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 19, 1993
Jim Courier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Another season is over?  
 
JIM COURIER:  No flash.  (AUDIENCE LAUGHTER)   
 

Q.  You need some dark shades in here?  
 
JIM COURIER:  Another season is over, yeah.   
 

Q.  How do you feel about the way things ended?  
 
JIM COURIER:  I am glad it is over.  Time to go home.   
 

Q.  Will you take six weeks off?  
 
JIM COURIER:  Yeah.  I have no tournaments for six weeks.   
 

Q.  Is it possible to describe the frustrations  you have had this week in coming to the year-end  tournament and losing three matches?  
 
JIM COURIER:  It is not fun to lose 3 matches.  But, in a  positive way looking at them, I am glad that I made it  though this event, and I had a good first half of this  year, disappointing second half, but overall, when you  say you at the beginning of the year you are going to  win one Grand Slam or two Grand Slam finals, you know,  I will take that for the next ten years.  I will sign  up for that right now; sign up for the six months of  frustration, too.   
 

Q.  Jose was quoted as saying that the middle of  the night training session you had on Wednesday night,  Thursday morning was one of the most productive for  three months; did you feel that way?  
 
JIM COURIER:  It was something that needed to be done,  yeah.  What is with the flash, guys?  Are you afraid  you are never going to see me again?   
 

Q.  No baseball cap.  Jim, what did you change in your way to  prepare the year in order to be better all year long;  you had a very good start of the year the last three  years --  
 
JIM COURIER:  Yeah.   
 

Q.  -- I thought the U.S. Open, you don't play as  well as you used to play at the beginning.  Can you  change something?  
 
JIM COURIER:  I don't really know.  I am not sure why it  happens like that.  I don't know if it is biorhythms or  just blind luck or if I just get tired or what.  I am  not really sure.  I mean, really, you know, my problems  didn't -- I don't really think that my problems started  until after the U.S. Open.  I mean, okay, I wasn't  playing great at the U.S. Open, but mentally I was 100%  there and I kind of been fading in and out like a  television picture for about the last five tournaments,  so I really -- I think I had nine mentally good months  this year, and about two little shakier, but I don't  know what I can do differently.  But you know, I will  figure it out one of these years.   
 

Q.  Jose felt it was like losing the final of the  French, losing Wimbledon was a little bit of a blow to  maybe your confidence; kind of took a toll as the year  progressed; do you think that is true?  
 
JIM COURIER:  It was very tough losing those matches, for  sure.  But it is-- there are many things along the way  that scar you, you know, on and off the court, and you  know, you just have to kind of grow with those and get  over the humps and, you know, I have had some big  hurdles to try and clear this year and I haven't been  able to quite do it this second half.  I did it okay  the first half, so you know, got to make do.   
 

Q.  You mean hurdles in terms of playing tennis  or life?  
 
JIM COURIER:  Basically tennis.  My life is great.  I have  had lots of ups and lots of downs and it is -- you have  to learn to balance that out.  I have never had so many pictures in a press  conference before.   
 

Q.  You are coming back, aren't you?  
 
JIM COURIER:  1993.   
 

Q.  Is balancing it a difficult part of your job?  
 
JIM COURIER:  I wouldn't say it is the most difficult part,  but it is one of the things that I enjoy the least.  I  would say.  It is maybe not as hard as getting up and  training everyday, but because it is not something that  I face everyday, but it is not something that I am  entirely pleased about.  I always have said I'd  rather be rich than famous, but --   
 

Q.  It is nice to have the option.  
 
JIM COURIER:  Yeah.  And I do not have that option.  I  can't get my anonymity back right now.   
 

Q.  What is the price of the book?  
 
JIM COURIER:  What is the price --   
 

Q.  Of the book?  
 
JIM COURIER:  I can afford it.   
 

Q.  What did you think of Michael's serve?  
 
JIM COURIER:  Pretty nice second, is better than mine  sometimes:  All right, guys.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT