ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 16, 1993
Jim Courier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Jim, did you feel that he played out of his  skin, or that you were having a bad day?  

JIM COURIER:  I think Michael played very well.  I think he  didn't play out of his skin, but I think that he  definitely played extremely well.  


Q.  Do you think it was the fact that you  couldn't make it on his serve because you never seemed  to really challenge him that much?  

JIM COURIER:  Certainly if I could have hurt him a little  bit more on his serve, maybe he wouldn't have been able  to play quite so freely as he did.  Really, he had  quite a few easy service games which kind of freed him  up to take some chances on my service games.  


Q.  You lost an early match here last year, still  made it to the final, but you got tougher ones here.  Stich and Medvedev to come.  Do you feel you can make  it to the final?  

JIM COURIER:  I still have a chance, so as long as I have a  chance, that is all that I ask.  I can still make it.  Just going to have to win a couple of matches here and  see what pans out for the rest.  


Q.  You say, Jim, what exactly -- how frustrated  can you get against a guy like Chang where every is  coming back?  

JIM COURIER:  It is nothing new for me.  I have played  Michael numerous times.  If you haven't played him and  you don't know what to expect, you know, it could be  frustrating.  I knew coming in exactly what I was in  for, so there was no surprises, really.  


Q.  It seemed later on, though, after you're up  and your backhand was way down, you were going with  slices more.  Were you just saying the heck with him,  just try anything now?  

JIM COURIER:  No, but I have had good success slicing  against Michael in the past, but my slice wasn't quite  as sharp as it needed to be when I tried to use it, so,  you know-- but I was just trying different things  because you got to try something if what you are doing  is not working.  


Q.  Jim, knowing how well you can play, what  level from 1 to 10, where would you put that  performance?  

JIM COURIER:  I don't know.  Probably around a 7 until  4-All.  And then about a 2 from there on in.  


Q.  Early on I thought your extra weight of shot  would do it all.  It looked like --  

JIM COURIER:  I was hitting the ball great.  Really.  I  thought except for the return of serve, there were  rallies.  We were having some entertaining points and  good points, but, you know, he just kind of outlasted  me a little bit.  


Q.  Jim, what can you say about the surface, is  it much slower than last year?  

JIM COURIER:  Well, I was asked that before.  And I can't  really recall exactly the speed last year, but I think  it is a pretty fair surface.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT