ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 15, 1993
Jim Courier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Inaudible.  

JIM COURIER:  No, I didn't know what the other guys were  doing. I don't know how they all got the same clothes  and they put them together.  


Q.  What have you done after Paris?  

JIM COURIER:  Well, I went on- where did I go? I went home  and didn't do much.  Watched a little TV. Seinfeld,  Saturday Night Live. Just the normal stuff.  


Q.  No tennis at all?  

JIM COURIER:  Inaudible. . .  I went actually to Palm  Springs.  


Q.  You said in Paris that your bed--  

JIM COURIER:  My bed is a good surface. I never loose in  there.  


Q.  Inaudible.  

JIM COURIER:  It seems to be my pattern here. The last  three years, I've had really good first halves and then  not as good in the second halves. So I figure I had a  couple of good years, why change it.  


Q.  A lot of people say you're having motivation  problems; is that right?  

JIM COURIER:  No.  No, I'm pretty motivated.  


Q.  Inaudible  

JIM COURIER:  No, not really. I mean, it was a good result.    I'm very pleased I was going to get to the final.  But it's not something I look back on as the highlight  of the year.  


Q.  Are you disappointed that you don't....  (Inaudible) 

JIM COURIER:  Well, I've had all year to compete for it, so  it's over: It's okay. Move on.  


Q.  Inaudible.  

JIM COURIER:  I think it should be played in Palm Springs.  I think it would be great.  In Florida. And I'm there. But I'm not coming back to  Europe in December. Has nothing to do with me not  liking the tournament or not liking what it represents.  It's very difficult for me to get back on another plane  in December and travel across the world.  


Q.  Inaudible.  

JIM COURIER:  Is that an invitation? I don't ski.  


Q.  Inaudible.  

JIM COURIER:  I don't know what I'll be doing. I'll be  around the States somewhere. Be glued to the TV,  watching those guys making all that money.  


Q.  In December, Jim, do you practice a lot, or  do you just put in three weeks?  

JIM COURIER:  A little bit of both. I think it's important  to get away, and it's also important to prepare for the  next year.  


Q.  Inaudible?  

JIM COURIER:  I really don't have much  to say about it.  I'm just playing.  


Q.  All get together. . .  

JIM COURIER:  It's just something that I'm really not  interested in right now. The thing is for me, to just  play as well as I can every week. But, worrying about  it has never helped, never has helped and never will  help. It doesn't have anything to do with while I'm out  there on the tennis court. It can't possibly help me,  so why bother.  


Q.  You are all powerful...  

JIM COURIER:  I'm all powerful, huh?  


Q.  Somebody said you don't like it very much,  indoor tournaments.  

JIM COURIER:  I would rather play outside, but we have  plenty of indoor events, and I play them. But if I had  my choice, I'd rather be outside, sure. I think it's  better for everybody.  


Q.  Is that a technical matter? Or because you  like the air?  Because it's boring to stay in the  stadium or what?  

JIM COURIER:  For sure, it's not my best surface, and that  has a lot to do with it. I mean, if I was winning all  the tournaments where I've won indoors, then I'd be  saying I can't wait to come play indoors. But, that's  not the case.  And I think that people... I mean,  speaking for myself, for sure, I'm much happier when  the sun is shining. I mean, it just has some sort of a  quality that makes me a little livelier.  When you play  indoors, and you're indoors, all the time you kind of  loose track of the time. I don't know; it kind of gets  me depressed being inside. It's probably because I'm  from Florida; I'm from the hot weather, so I'm always  used to playing outside; it's just what I'm used to.  I can say it's just a little bit depressing, and it  makes me a little less energized.  


Q.  Inaudible.  

JIM COURIER:  It can be a little dull when you're just  walking back and forth just watching his  serve go by. I don't know, I mean, for the spectators,  too, I think.  


Q.  Do you find this surface this year a little  bit slower than last year?  

JIM COURIER:  I can't exactly remember last year's speed,  but the speed seems pretty good here.  


Q.  Are you happy with your group because it  seems a little bit...  

JIM COURIER:  Whoever is in front, that's who I have to  play so, you know, I guess I'm happy. It doesn't really  matter to me who's there.  If you want to go through to the final, you're going to  have to play everybody.  


Q.  Inaudible.  

JIM COURIER:  No.  No, we've been going through the whole  year, it's the last week of the year for me, I'm not  disappointed.  


Q.  What does Frankfurt mean to you?  

JIM COURIER:  Well, it's a good event. It's the only event  where we have all Top 8 players together, and that's  it, so, it's a big test, everybody has to play each  other. And the champion of this event is going to be  somebody who played great tennis, because you can't win  at least four matches  against Top 8 players and not be doing well.  


Q.  Inaudible.  

JIM COURIER:  For me this year has been.. I'm regarded as a  success.  Because any time I can put some titles the  board and play well at the Grand Slams, I think it's a  successful year.  The second half of the year hasn't  been that great, I've really not played well, and  that's a little bit discouraging at times, but that's  kind of the nature of life, as well as the game. You  can't have ups all the time; you have to experience  some lulls, too. So I'll be able to come next year and  have a good second half of the season. I say that every  year.  


Q.  Are you happy about...  

JIM COURIER:  Yeah, and I haven't thrown the towel in; I'm  still playing. You've got to roll with it.  


Q.  Can I ask you for an explanation why you  haven't played as well? Is it just an up and a down, or  is it more than that?  

JIM COURIER:  I have no explanation.  Maybe you can give me  some help with it.  


Q.  No, I wouldn't try to rationalize it.  Is it just simply...  

JIM COURIER:  There's really not much to rationalize when  you're just playing a game. You play well or you play  poorly.  I try the same, whether I'm playing well or  I'm playing poorly.  I don't know what makes me play  great and I don't know what makes me play bad. It just  is.  


Q.  Is it just something you have to live with?  

JIM COURIER:  Oh, I've lived with it all my life. Since I  was seven years old playing junior tournaments.  


Q.  Is the reason you're not playing Munich  because you want to win?  You're loosing a lot of money  because...  

JIM COURIER:  Well, it all depends on how you see it. No  one is taking any money away from me, so, it's like the  money wasn't even there. It's like, is the glass almost  empty, or does it have something in there to drink?  It's not going to change my life if I go over there and  play; it will probably hurt me for next year. It's more  important for me to get ready for next year than to  make money.  


Q.  Is it a prostitution, Jim, or is it  just no  way in December are you going back to Europe?  

JIM COURIER:  Well, not this year. And I don't  foresee myself changing.  Not for that event.  It's an  exhibition.  I'll be at a  very large financial exhibition, but, you know, that's  what it is.  


Q.  If it was at a different slot on the calendar  and there were ATP points for the event, would you  support it differently?  

JIM COURIER:  If it was at a different slot on the  calendar, it wouldn't matter if there were ATP points  or not. As I was saying before, the whole problem with  the event for me is the calendar.  If it was in the United States, I would play it for  sure, but I'm not going to cross the Atlantic and screw  up my body for two weeks, time zone changes, just for  money, you know, at that time of the year.  


Q.  Are you going to play...  

JIM COURIER:  No, Australian Open.  I play exhibition for real, yeah.  


Q.  When... Because.... Don't they give you money  each time....  

JIM COURIER:  Yeah, they do, but it doesn't count for  anything; that's what I consider an exhibition.  It's  an exhibition tournament. I mean, I don't have a  problem with the event. I think the event is great.  Someone throws you money, you'd be a fool to go slap  them in the face. You know, that's great for the guys  to go play. But, it's just a tough time of the year for  me to get motivated and go play in Europe.  


Q.  Inaudible.  

JIM COURIER:  I'm excited.  I'm going to India. Maybe as a  practice partner. But, yeah, I've told Tom that I'm  prepared to go.  And I plan on going; it's in my  calendar.  


Q.  Why this difference from last year, from this  year?  

JIM COURIER:  See, last year was a different situation.  Last year I thought for sure that Andre or Pete would  go to play in Australia. It was playing on grass.  I  never had any good results on grass. No one would  really... I mean, I didn't think that I would be the  best guy for the team to go. And when it came for me to  play, I just didn't like feel I could go down there and  give a good effort.  I would be tired. It would be  grass. I would have two days to adjust.  If I did well  in Lipton, I'd get down there on Tuesday and I'd have  Wednesday, Thursday to practice, then play.  Yeah, but this year I don't think Pete's  going to go. Unless he changes his  mind. Andre is out of the first tie.  And I don't want  what happened to us last year  ... I don't want us to get knocked out in the first  round.  Because I wanted to play Davis Cup this year,  and try and do it again, and this year I'm going to go,  and maybe I'm going to loose my matches; maybe I'm  going to win.  Maybe I'll get sick and not be able to  play, but I'm going to make the effort and go. And I'm  no hero for that, but I'm just doing what I think is  right.  Sure stinks that we're going to India.  No,  actually I'm kind of interested in going, because I've  never been. And I haven't played Davis Cup out of the  country in three years since I went to Mexico for my  first time, so I'm kind of looking forward to going and  playing in that foreign environment. Because that's  really what makes Davis Cup special is going into  places like that, to find out how there crowd is going  to be, what they're going to try and do to throw you  off, and overcome it.  It's pretty exciting.  


Q.  Inaudible.  

JIM COURIER:  No, not really my schedule is pretty good. I  tend to play... You know, my schedule next year will  follow very closely this year's schedule.  


Q.  Can you tell me a little bit about what  happened at the US Open.  

JIM COURIER:  There's not much really to say.  I mean, I  came in there the way I wanted to.  I had won  Indianapolis and was confident. And came in and I just  for whatever reason I just didn't play the best I  could. I tried the best I could, but the magic just  wasn't there.  


Q.  In....  

JIM COURIER:  I mean, it's disappointing to lose early, but  I'm not disappointed as long as I give myself the best  chance to win.  And the best chance really just to play  my best.  And I think I did everything correctly going  into that tournament.  And, Cliche City:  You can't win  them all. But you can prepare the best you can, and  hopefully play well. Sometimes playing well, you're  still going to loose.  


Q.  Inaudible.  

JIM COURIER:  Yeah, I mean I just didn't want to come in  fatigued. No, I came in fresh.  


Q.  I think you mentioned that you would ask  Stefan Edberg to come together.. Inaudible.  

JIM COURIER:  Can you translate for me?  It's okay. Take your time.  


Q.  Yeah, I know what you're saying. It  just  never really happened.  It never really panned out, but  it's okay: I don't worry about that anymore. Whatever  happens with that, happens. And I'm just going to worry  about what I can do on the tennis court.  I try not to  be a politician; I just try to be a tennis player. The  world doesn't like politicians too much, any way.  

Q.  Inaudible.  

JIM COURIER:  It's kind of like banging your head against  the wall.  I guess I'm just kind of tired of trying to  change something that might change,  but it won't be  because it won't necessarily be what I want it to  be.  And maybe it will be.  I remember I talked to you  guys last year, and immediately after this press  conference we went over to the mayor's, whatever, the  mayor's mansion, and I had three guys jumping all over  me, don't go to the press; tell us first.  And that's  the kind of political stuff that I don't really care  about. I don't need that feeling. I don't need those  guys getting mad at me or trying to corral me or  whatever.  Just trying to avoid the hassle I suppose.  


Q.  Do you look at it as energy you're wasting in  a sense?  

JIM COURIER:  It is. It's mental energy in a sense that  kind of evaporates,  unfortunately.  I don't have that  much mental energy, so I have to kind of guard it with  my life.  


Q.  Inaudible.  

JIM COURIER:  Well, yeah, we have the power to say  something to you, and we entrust that power with you to  get it out to the people.  You know, do we have the  power to come up and say, this is what we want to do  about the ranking system;  we don't care about what the  tournament directors think. It's been done. It hasn't  worked.  


Q.  Can you talk about.... Inaudible.  

JIM COURIER:  Absolutely.  A lot of hot air blowing around.  I mean, Mark's not at fault. I mean, it's just kind  of the way the system  works. There's so many different  interests.  So many financial interests and political  interests going on, you know, in the back doors there;  I have no idea what they mean. I'm a tennis player. I  tell them what I think they tell me what I want to hear  and then they kind of slide it underneath.  How about that Bear's game?  Hell of a game.  


Q.  Is this a good surface...  

JIM COURIER:  I think Michael and I any surface we play on  is fairly even for us because we play similar styles.  


Q.  Inaudible.  

JIM COURIER:  Well they're more ground strokers, compared  to last year was pretty much serve and volleyers.  


Q.  Inaudible.  

JIM COURIER:  Well, I don't think the edge is off. This is  a big tournament, and I want to play well. I never  played for the ranking.  I play to play my best and try  and win some titles. I'm just glad to be here. This is  my third year in a row. I'm in the Top 8; it's kind of  nice to have made it again. Now I'm really starting to  hit the cliches. Just glad to be here; the good Lord.  It's 4:00; it's dark outside.  


Q.  Inaudible.  

JIM COURIER:  I would have loved to have been a musician.  But I don't know if that's reality.  I think if I would have been a businessman, I don't  know what I'd be doing. I'd probably  still be in school. I don't know, what do you think I'd  have?  Yeah, I play guitar.  I'll use a  psychiatrist's trick:  Repeat the last word.  


Q.  Inaudible

JIM COURIER:  There's a lot of space for tennis musicians,  that's for sure. I don't think they're lacking for  musicians, and I don't think we're going to fill any  holes.  We have some fun.  Well, I haven't played  with Murphy,  but I've played with Luke. But they're  fun, good guys.  


Q.  Inaudible.  

JIM COURIER:  I didn't go to it, but Luke is here, and I've  been practicing a little bit with Luke. And I think  Luke was going to speak or whatever, and they have some  ideas, and I'm sure he had some good ones.  


Q.  They have some interesting ideas.  

JIM COURIER:  Yeah, Luke's funny.  


Q.  Do you think the game needs some..  

JIM COURIER:  I don't know. I'm a player. I'm on the court.  I'm on the court. I'm not in the stands  watching.  I don't know why it is. For me anyway, maybe  it's just if I'm not playing I'm really not that  interested. I mean, I'll watch tennis on tape if I'm  trying to learn something from it, but I don't think  that watching a match is that entertaining.  


Q.  Kind of MTV-ize it?  

JIM COURIER:  He wants it to be more or less how the NBA  games are packaged. Timeouts, you know, they have the  people coming out and doing contests, shooting  blindfolded for a car.  Well, I'll give them a few  ideas, cause all I'll have to do is just go out and  watch an NBA game 'cause they're just nonstop  entertainment all the time.   I don't think tennis purists are going to  like that. I think the game is fun. Tennis is a game  built on tradition. And I think you'd be loosing a  heavy core audience. Let's say for example you try and  do any of that stuff in Monte Carlo or Rome. Can you  imagine what their response would be?  Australia?  It  might work at an indoor event in Detroit, but I don't  think  that's going to fly at the events that have been  established and have been around, and that have that  core audience that comes to watch good tennis.  There's, for certain, there's a market out there young  people that want to be entertained, that come to see  the athletes, not really the sport necessarily.  I  mean, I see that more in basketball than any other  sport.  


Q.  Inaudible.  

JIM COURIER:  Don't really know. I just pretty much told you  everything that I know about it.   Luke when he's into something, boy...  


Q.  Have you been asked about India and Davis  Cup...  

JIM COURIER:  I was explaining earlier that basically the  scenario was different last year. I expected Pete or  Andre to go. They were the Wimbledon winner and semi  finalist. And they were good grass court players, and I  was unestablished on grass. But I think people would  look at me in a different light, at least think I have  a chance to play decent on that surface. So I didn't  expect that I would be A., asked, at all, B. Needed,  and also C., I didn't think that I would be able to  give a good quality performance down there and coming  from Lipton I  would have about two or three days to  practice, and I just thought it just wasn't going to  work. And I wanted to play Davis Cup this year, but  that didn't happen.  I mean, I may not play singles, I mean who knows what's  going to happen between now and then. I'm ready to  go  and I want to go and I'm looking forward to playing on  a foreign surface. It will be the first time. I really  think we can put together a similar situation that we  had two years ago. I hope that Pete, and I'm not sure  who else is going to be involved. But I hope we can get  a good group of guys and go after it again.  


Q.  Inaudible.  

JIM COURIER:  I really don't know. I've talked to Delhi a  lot. I think Andre is out, and I don't think Pete is  going to go.  


Q.  Lipton?  

JIM COURIER:  No, I'm going to play Lipton.  


Q.  Inaudible.  

JIM COURIER:  Gully is Gully; we love him.  Gully is one of  the boys.  


Q.  Inaudible.  

JIM COURIER:  Well, I think it's going to be a good  tournament. It's going to be tough as usual. And we'll  see what happens.  


Q.  I think your group is not as  tough as the other one.  Do you think you have a good  chance?  

JIM COURIER:  I hope so.  


Q.  You'll play from the baseline...  

JIM COURIER:  Why should I tell you?  They may be  listening.  You can't tell that.  


Q.  Tell us about the three players. 

JIM COURIER:  Well, I'm playing Chang first. I know it will  be a tough match. We both know each other's games very  well. Medvedev, a young player coming up; I played him  one time in a tournament, one time in an  exhibition. I had two tough matches with him. It's  going to be a tough match as well. And Michael Stich is  playing very well on an indoor surface right now. He  has a very expressive game. We played many times, and  he's beaten me, I've beaten him. So it will be tough.  


Q.  Inaudible?  

JIM COURIER:  I sure hope so. This court is not as fast as  Stockholm and  Paris.  


Q.  You have a red guitar?  

JIM COURIER:  My red guitar was stolen in Wimbledon this  year. I have a black guitar with me.  


Q.  You have a red Porsche?  

JIM COURIER:  No, I have a black Porsche.  


Q.  Your favorite color, is it black?  

JIM COURIER:  No, I don't have a favorite color. If I have  a favorite color, maybe it's green.  


Q.  But when you're playing it's red.  

JIM COURIER:  Not anymore. What I'm  wearing now it's  purple and green.  


Q.  A lot of players play golf. Do you play golf?  

JIM COURIER:  Sure, I play.  


Q.  Why? Is it a game to  concentrate more on your tennis or what?  

JIM COURIER:  I played since I was 8 years old, five years  old. I played with my Dad and friends.  It's a good  sport.  


Q.  Inaudible.  

JIM COURIER:  How did these guys get dressed in the same  stuff? Must have called each other. I don't look good  in that color. That's why I didn't wear it.  


Q.  Last year a lot of the top players were  complaining about the ranking.  

JIM COURIER:  Yeah, we're not complaining about it this  year. It's another year and  maybe we're  more mature  and more experienced and we agree one hundred percent  with the ranking system.  


Q.  Inaudible.  

JIM COURIER:  I don't agree or disagree. That's the way the  ranking system is, and I'm just playing it.  I'm a very positive person.  


Q.  When did you start coming to terms with the  media and all that stuff?  

JIM COURIER:  Why, don't I look so comfortable?  


Q.  I know it's not something that we find...  

JIM COURIER:  I don't think it ever gets  easier.   You guys have a job to do, and sometimes what  I'm trying to do doesn't have anything to do with what  you're trying to do and vice-versa, so we... There are  times when I would rather not have to deal with it, but  it's the job and that's what I have to do, and I  understand what you guys have to do. And I'm not  defending us, but I'm not friendly all the time, and I  don't think you can expect us to be friendly all the  time.  


Q.  Inaudible.  

JIM COURIER:  No, I don't think so either. I mean, some  guys will get upset if you're short in a press  conference.  I'm fairly infamous for being short  whether I'm winning or losing. But, it's the job.  


Q.  Inaudible.  

JIM COURIER:  I think guys like you two that are on the  road with us a lot, you know our personalities, and  it's different with the people, say the local  reporters, see somebody and they don't really have any  idea what their personality is, and they'll jump to a  conclusion a little bit; I don't know how you can say  who or how a person is or acts based on a ten minute  press conference.  But that happens sometimes.  And  they're trying to do the best they can and explain  things to their readers.  Maybe I'm trying to keep  things inside and not expose myself.  


Q.  In terms of you reading USA Today, and see  sort of see the other side of the court....  

JIM COURIER:  I really try not to read the tennis articles,  because a lot of times they're guessing at how a player  is feeling, and I like to keep myself kind of open  minded about how I'm feeling, rather than have someone  else explain to me what's going on.  


Q.  Inaudible.  

JIM COURIER:  Could be.  Could be.  You have to play those  games, you know. Sometimes you have to try and, like  you say, hide a light under a bush.  Or sometimes I'm  trying to hide it from myself as much as I am from you  guys.   Yeah, but you can see how things can get a  bit out of whack.  You can see how the media had a  large part in driving Jordan out of the game, and  that's really disturbing.  And we're fortunate that  none of that has happened in tennis, as far as no one  has fixated on anyone's private life.  Everything  that's written, pretty much, is written about players  on court activities, and there's been really no  negative publicity.  


Q.  You don't say that comes with the territory,  do you?  

JIM COURIER:  People have the right to comment on what he  does on the court and what he does for the team.  I  think it's nobody's business if he goes to Atlantic  City.   Just like it's nobody's business if he stays  awake all night in his hotel room and doesn't sleep.  What's the difference.  In my mind it's better for him  to go to Atlantic City, be home by one o'clock and in  bed than for him to be sitting up in his hotel room  playing cards and playing until five in the morning,  nobody knowing anything, getting one hour's sleep and  then going to the game.  But it's nobody's business. I  really strongly feel this way.  People want to know  things...  


Q.  Inaudible.  

JIM COURIER:  Yeah. I can't say that I'm not intrigued to  read about it, because I am, because it's like the  people in Hollywood; everyone wants to read what  they're like in their life, and the reality is they're  like me and you. But that's boring; that doesn't sell  papers. So they have to find something else. I think  that's  what people are afraid of, is that the people  that do things that they perceive that they can't do  are different. But people are always the same.  


Q.  Inaudible.  

JIM COURIER:  I'm not a philosophy major.  


Q.  Interesting.   Do you foresee a time in your  career, like Lendl for instance...  

JIM COURIER:  Maybe I'll get older and wiser and more  mature.... Inaudible.  


Q.  Inaudible.  

JIM COURIER:  I don't know.  It's hard to say. I mean, I've  changed so much in three years, you know, it's  unbelievable.  And who knows how I'm going to change in  the next three.   We just can't see what's around the  corner.  And sometimes I do think to myself, maybe I  should try and be a personality, try to be funnier, and  do things on the court.  You know, what's important for  me is to do my job the best that I  can do it, trying  not to create controversy, but trying (inaudible).  


Q.  Inaudible.  

JIM COURIER:  People are watching.  I'm certainly not going  to point a finger at Charles Barkley and say you  shouldn't be doing it.  I'm no angel: You guys know  that and I know that.  


Q.  Inaudible.  

JIM COURIER:  Well, first off, you have Michael Chang, a  young American from California, a very talented young  man, won the French Open when he was 17, has worked on  his game a lot in the past few years, much more  aggressive than he used to be. Much more comfortable at  the net.  He's playing an all around game. He's had a  very successful as far as number of titles won year.  He's got five titles, four of them coming in the Asian  Run, which is where he's extremely popular. Some would  say more popular than God, although he wouldn't. And I  think you can look for an exciting match from Michael.  He's a scrapper.  He's going to run around, and he's  going to try and .... Jim is going to try and pound the  ball down his throat, and Michael is going to try to  carry out the best he can.   You have 22 year old Jim Courier from  Florida. This tall, striking handsome young man. He's  having a fairly successful year, albeit not as  successful as last year.  He's been in three Grand Slam  finals this year.  He's got four ATP Tour titles. Plays  big from the baseline. Got a decent serve.  And he's  been home for the last ten days, gathering his  thoughts, kind of getting ready for this event.  And we  hope will play his best tennis, certainly feels that he  will.  


Q.  Inaudible.  

JIM COURIER:  You say that TV ratings are down. That's  something I can't really explain to you why that is.  Shoe sales may be down; the world economy has been  down.  People don't spend money on the things they  don't deem as necessary goods.  And I think the first  things to go is extravagances, maybe instead of buying  a new pair of tennis shoes twice a year, they may buy  one pair a year instead.   You know, what Luke was talking about, which  is what you really you want to hear, is, you know, I  think that Luke has good points, but I think that  tennis is a very... Tennis has a lot of history, and we  have a lot of prestige, and the general tennis fan in a  lot of places is a country club player who appreciates  watching good tennis and that's why he goes to watch a  tennis match as played.  And I think that we're playing  good tennis out here, and I think that there are young  players up and coming on the way that will play good  tennis to replace the John McEnroes, the Connors and  the Ivan Lendles and all these people, and we have guys  that will come out and will play good tennis and  entertain the crowd as well.  And that Andre Medvedev  over there, that guy's a walking quote machine. I think  he's hilarious. I don't know what you guys think about  him, but I think he's great for the game. So I think  the game is doing okay, but you might as well take a  look at some other options and see... I don't see how  we're going to have laser shows and rock & roll in  Rome, in Monte Carlo, in Wimbledon, in Australia. Okay,  I can see it in the United States in certain events, in  certain cities. But I don't see it everywhere.  There's  just too much kind of a country club scenario in some  places; people go there to try and entertain  themselves, and they dress up, and they go to watch  good tennis and it's a social event. Nothing wrong with  that.  


Q.  Inaudible.  

JIM COURIER:  Like I said before, the interest of the  player and the interest of the media are not always the  same.  We were just talking before about how guys like  yourself who come around to lots of events that we know  personally, I mean you know us personally; we're a lot  more open with you.  But with people we don't really  know, I am certainly much more guarded and I don't give  much of myself away. In big settings where I have 15  people sitting in front of me I'm just not going to say  much.  You get me one on one,  you know, I'll crack a joke with you; I'll tell you  what I've been doing, what's been happening in my life.  But, I mean, I feel like we've got something going.  But sometimes it feels like it's me against them.  I  mean, if I'm standing there and someone asks me a  question, but everyone's waiting, but I don't want to  answer it, so how do I answer it.  Do I try and walk  around the question and have it answered it asked in a  different way, the next question. If I could, honestly,  if I could I would do one press conference before every  tournament, and then I would never do another press  conference after the match. You know, after the matches  of course you guys want to  figure out what we were thinking in the match and  everything, but when I'm done with the match, I don't  look forward to coming in to the press, I really  don't.  But it's my responsibility and you guys need  some quotes, and maybe that's why sometimes I'm a  little bit short. But I'm not a bad guy.  


Q.  Inaudible.  

JIM COURIER:  Well, I thought this was the suit we were all  going to wear.  


Q.  Inaudible.  

JIM COURIER:  It's a bad color for me.  This is much  better.  


Q.  Inaudible.  

JIM COURIER:  Well, that's my story.  I'm sticking with it.  That's right.  


Q.  Sometimes you're funny and you're in a good  mood, and the other days nobody even dares to ask you a  question.  

JIM COURIER:  I don't know. I guess I'm just moody. I don't  think I am. But you'd have to ask the people around me.  Ask Jose; he'll tell you.  


Q.  The jokes people are making is there should  be mutual trust between the media and the tennis  players because otherwise the fans, who only find out  about you guys through us, who the real Jim Courier and  the real Pete Sampras are all about...are (inaudible)....  Going to be misquoted.  So how do you do it?  (inaudible)

JIM COURIER:  Well, I don't really worry about being  misquoted.  


Q.  But you don't reveal a side of you. Nobody  does.  

JIM COURIER:  Well, speaking for myself, I don't want  everybody that reads a magazine to know everything  about me. There's some things in my life that I prefer  to keep to myself:  How many cars I have, how many  friends I have, what the relationship with my Mom is  this week as compared to last week.  People can know  the generalities about, you know, where I live, how  many brothers and sisters that I have.  There's stuff  that I'm not willing to give away everything. The  public probably knows more about me because of the  commercials with Nike that I've done than anything else  that's ever been written about me.  


Q.  When you do one on ones you say you're much  more...  

JIM COURIER:  Yes.  


Q.  The one on ones, when you do one of those, do  you look at the newspapers. . .  

JIM COURIER:  I don't really get asked for that many one on    ones in the first place, and I don't really give away  too much time for that.  But, when people ask me and I  say either I can or I can't, and it's not because I've  read this guy's article and not read this guy's, that I  do it, I just see what fits my schedule. That's usually  the basis of whether I accept or decline, is whether I  can or cannot do it at that particular day or time.  Because my schedule is the most precious thing to me.  Because I don't have many days.  


Q.  Inaudible.  

JIM COURIER:  I'm just not coming back to Europe in  December.  This is it for me for the year.   I don't ethically disapprove of the  tournament at all.  I think the tournament is a great  exhibition. A great opportunity to make some money it's  a bonus for having done well in the Grand Slams. And I  think that's great.  Why do you want to slap somebody  who throws down $6 million in prize money; there's no  reason. That's found money. If I lived in Europe, I  would be the first one to sign up. But as the case is,  I'm in the United States, in Palm Springs. Practicing  where Jose is.  For me to go to Munich, a., if I want  to do well there, I need to be there three days in  advance to adjust to the time change, and then I come  back after the tournament is over and I have another  week that I'm trying to get back on the time change, so  it really takes two weeks, plus the two weeks before  that I could have been vacationing and then getting  ready to practice. So then I only have really three  weeks to get ready for Australia.  


Q.  Inaudible.  

JIM COURIER:  No, I don't. But I think that, you know, I  have worked with some in the past and I've had good  success with it.  


Q.  What do they do for you?  

JIM COURIER:  Just a place for me to bounce ideas off my  head, that are inside of my head, and for them to kind  of listen is the main thing.  


Q.  Coaches do that. So one  doesn't really need  one, you can use a coach as a sort of double...  

JIM COURIER:  Oh, sure, you can use your parents if you  wanted to, use your friends; it's really up to you.   Has it been an hour? Is it over?


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT