ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 21, 1992
Jim Courier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Jim, you had a lousy call at the start of the tiebreak. You find yourself 3-Love down in that tiebreak.  You jumped out of it. 

JIM COURIER:  Well -- 


Q.  A bit of help from Pete? 

JIM COURIER:  I put myself in a bit of a hole there by getting upset. I should have just sucked it up and held out those first two serves instead of getting in a 3-0 hole.  But I kind of just gathered myself a little bit and, said, well -- I mean, I am not going to give it away I, am at least going to make him earn it the rest of the way.  He gave me a couple of points back, so I was able to get back in there, and anything happens when it gets 4-5 all in the tiebreaker; you never know what is going to happen. 


Q.  You are more surprised about how you played on this surface, or about he played? 

JIM COURIER:  How I played on this surface? 


Q.  Yes. 

JIM COURIER:  I just went out there and whacked the ball, and I hit the ball pretty solid; served pretty well, and, you know, I am sure Pete is going to come in and tell you he played lousy, but you know, that is par for the course. 


Q.  Are you peaking at the right time, do you feel, for this tournament? 

JIM COURIER:  I am playing better.  I don't know if I am peaking, but I am playing better.  Obviously you are going to play the best tennis at the end of the week, if you can still be playing without getting beat early. 


Q.  Jim, why did you explode so much?  Did this pent up? 

JIM COURIER:  Horrendous call.  I mean, you don't, you know, you don't get too many -- can't give anything away, particularly in tiebreakers, and it was just -- absolutely mind-boggling.  I hit the ball, but I wasn't even playing it.  I just kind of hit it in play and looked over there and over there, and what the hell is going on, you know.  Maybe that is the fire that I needed to get back. 


Q.  Seemed like Pete kind of lost something in that transition there, he sort of lost a little juice, lost a little bit on his serve.  Did you notice that? 

JIM COURIER:  You have to ask Pete.  I really don't know. 


Q.  Do you feel the match turned to a certain extent when you saved the two set points at 4-5 in the first? 

JIM COURIER:  Well, that certainly helps things, yeah.  I hit some good serves to get out of it there.  Pete gets up a set; he usually loosens up and goes for his shots a little bit more, serves a little bit bigger, so I was able to just stay close to him there until we got to the breakers.  That was good. 


Q.  Jim, there was the big forehand across the court diagonal from Pete where you seemed to looked shocked.  Were you surprised by his shots? 

JIM COURIER:  Where was this? 


Q.  Before the tiebreaker. 

JIM COURIER:  In the first set or second? 


Q.  First set.  He came right to the corner and whacked it past you.  You sort of watched it go right down -- 

JIM COURIER:  Oh, yeah.  I had a duck volley, and I didn't put it away. 


Q.  Are you going to watch Becker and Ivanisevic? 

JIM COURIER:  No.  I have seen them play enough.  I don't need to watch them. 


Q.  We will not ask you about the No. 1 race for a while-- 

JIM COURIER:  I guess not.  I read today in the paper that it is over. 


Q.  How do you feel about that? 

JIM COURIER:  Well, you know, it is nice.  I don't think it would have bothered me too much if I wouldn't have gotten it.  But I had the best results in the Grand Slams; I deserve it. 


Q.  Because you are going to look down a list some day; you are going to see Connors, McEnroe? 

JIM COURIER:  It is there for history.  It is there.  It is another thing that is knocked off.  It is nice. 


Q.  Did you feel a little bit surprised that you outserved him in the end? 

JIM COURIER:  Well, I served well yesterday, so I am kind of getting in the groove.  I don't know if I will be able to serve that well tomorrow, but five sets is a long match.  But I am finding my range, and, yeah, maybe a little bit surprised because his serve is definitely bigger than mine, but I don't know what the percentages were.  It seemed like I got a pretty good percentage in, so-- 


Q.  You hit 17 aces? 

JIM COURIER:  Yeah, I was going for it. 


Q.  Were you a little surprised here in the final considering how you struggled a bit early on? 

JIM COURIER:  Even the Ivanisevic match, that kind of made me have a little bit of a doubt, but you know, I came back out and fought pretty good yesterday against Michael, so it is working out for me so far.  It is always tough to play against these guys.  Every match is a tough one, but it is the end of the year, you get up for it, just go for it.  You hit it, you keep playing.  You miss it, you know, you go to the beach. 


Q.  With a 6-1, head-to-head record against you, what did you go -- was the big serve -- 

JIM COURIER:  Just basically try not to play a conservative at all. You can't win indoors against big hitters playing conservative, so match head-to-head records don't mean a thing when you get on the court. 


Q.  Would you agree to support an increase of the drug testing in the top nine tournaments next year? 

JIM COURIER:  I believe that we are going to have more drug testing, and I have nothing to hide, and I will take a test any time anywhere.  I have taken four drug tests this year.  Last one coming in Stockholm, and it is a pain in the butt, to be tested, really.  This year, in Cincinnati, I played a night match it was finished like at 11:00 and I had to go give a urine sample and I was really dehydrated after the match.  It was very humid and I was there until 1:00 trying to give a sample, and you know I had to come out and play like at 1:00 the next day, so I think you know, if we can do it within reason, you know, it is fine.  I don't see -- four times a year, random drug testing, I think is plenty.  I don't think we need to drug test every week like they do the track athletes.  I don't really think there is any abuse that I know of.  I don't know of anybody that is doing anything that they shouldn't be.  I don't know what drugs would be beneficial to a tennis player anyway, except if you are injured and if you want to rebuild a muscle, maybe steroids you can do it faster, but drugs in tennis it is -- you don't have to be big to play tennis.  Look at me, I mean -- 


Q.  Look at Peter Korda? 

JIM COURIER:  Look at Petr.  Look at Goran.  You can go down the list. Krajicek doesn't have weightlifting legs, does he? 


Q.  Thank you.   

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT