U.S. OPEN
September 5, 1992
Jim Courier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.   Is there a difference in your play today and Chesnokov? 
 
 JIM COURIER:  Well, it was a different match.  Cedric was playing
a lot more attacking than Andre was, but you-- over all, I feel
pretty good about it.  I really finished the match well.  So I
have a good feeling coming off the court.

 Q.   Was it a struggle up to that?  I mean, except for the
end?

 JIM COURIER:  It was a very tough match.  I mean, he was serving
very well, and I was, most of the time, winning comfortably on
my serve, so it came down to, you know, the break in the first
set, one break in the second, one break in the third, then one
break in the fourth.  So it was, you know, it was pretty nip and
tuck all the way.

 Q.   We heard your commentary over the TV set on the McEnroe
match.  If he in fact does win, you, obviously, will be in the
position of playing one of these Open crowd favorites.  What is
it you have to do beside play good tennis to get accustomed to
the atmosphere that you are going to most likely have out there
next match?

 JIM COURIER:  Just another tennis match, really.  Go out there
and you get into your concentration, you don't worry about the
external stuff.  I haven't had any problems.  The worst case scenario
you could ever see was Connors last year in the semis and I didn't
really have any problems as far as crowdmania.

 Q.   Does there have to be sort of a nasty streak that a young
player has to have to play in a match like that?

 JIM COURIER:  I don't think so.  You just have to get in there
and do what you know how to do and don't worry about the rest.


 Q.   Is it easier for you now than two, three years ago?

 JIM COURIER:  Well, I think that I am more mature on the court.
 I know I have been in more situations, so I know how to handle
them a little better.

 Q.   And the things that you do to handle them are?  

 JIM COURIER:  Just not to really do anything.  Just to play my
game.

 Q.   ClichÃƒ © city?

 JIM COURIER:  Just here to help the club.  Good Lord willing
--

 Q.   Anyway that he can be more dangerous here?

 JIM COURIER:  John?

 Q.   Yes, than any -- you know, forget about throughout the
French.  But have any of the other --

 JIM COURIER:  Obviously has had a great season in the Grand Slams.
 He did very well in Australia, had a great run in Wimbledon.
 He tends to rise to the occasion, and that is what I am striving
to do too.  Always to rise to the occasion at the big moment.
 So I expect a tough match if John gets through, if Richard wins,
but I expect a tough match.

 Q.   Did last year getting to the finals and so forth change
your comfort level here drastically or not necessarily, is it
more of a build up of all of your experience?

 JIM COURIER:  Kind of a combination of the two.  Certainly helps
to have done well at a tournament.  You can do it, but I think
that I have played a lot of big matches in the last couple of
years, so I am fairly comfortable with it.  

 Q.   Is there any worry at all about approaching a match like
this.  It is only going to be the fourth round and you are playing,
you know, 16 seed and somebody else besides McEnroe or any worry
that it could become too big?

 JIM COURIER:  I don't see it that way.  I see it as here is my
next match and every match is a new challenge.  I am just going
out there and hoping to perform well, and see what happens.  No
reason to expend any extra energy worrying about it.  I can't
control the outcome.  All I can do is go out there and play my
best, and we will see what happens.

 Q.   Have you ever intended to expend any extra energy worrying
about stuff?

 JIM COURIER:  I used to when I was first coming up.  But I have
learned kind of to control it a little better.  Thanks guys. 
   

 End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT