U.S. OPEN
September 3, 1992
Jim Courier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.   Jim, what did you do different today compared to the
last five times you played him? 
 
 JIM COURIER:  I won the last point, which is a start. Something
I hadn't been able to do five times against Andrei.  I played
a little smarter today.  I was a little more patient than I had
been in our past meetings, and that was really the difference.
 I served smarter, and just, you know, wasn't over anxious out
there.

 Q.   Was he always just one of the players - obviously you
didn't beat him in five tries - who would always give you more
trouble than anybody else?

 JIM COURIER:  Seems like Andrei, I mean, he kind of goes like
this during his tennis year.  He comes out a couple of good tournaments,
then he goes back down.  He always seemed to get up to play me.
 So today I kind of got up to play him.  

 Q.   What is your tennis doing this year?

 JIM COURIER:  I feel really good after this match.  Best I felt
in a long, long time.

 Q.   Can you explain, elaborate a little bit?  Is it more
physically?  Is it mentally?

 JIM COURIER:  The whole package is feeling really good right
now.

 Q.   Andrei says the difference between the five victories
he had over you is that you are playing with a lot more confidence
now.  Would you acknowledge that?

 JIM COURIER:  I'd say that is one of the factors that I would
not be worried about, staying out there extra long. Before, maybe,
I was too anxious to get off the court, and today I wasn't concerned.
 However long it took was how long I was going to try and be out
there.

 Q.   What about the fact that he said four of them were when
your ranking was lower than his.  Do you think specifically being
in the favored position and number one helps that confidence?

 JIM COURIER:  I really don't think that ranking gets into the
match.  Once you get on the court, it is man against man.  You
see who  plays better on that day.

 Q.   Given your history with him after the result of the first
set, you said you weren't anxious today; but after the first set
with the history did you feel --

 JIM COURIER:  Actually, four times, except this year and Indian
Wells, he beat me in straight sets, but the four times prior,
I had won the first set.  So my strategy today was to tank the
first set and come back; not really, but you know, it is a long
match.  Three out of five, just go out there and keep playing
and I didn't play really -- I played one bad game in the first
set.

 Q.   Would the word slump be too hard of a word to describe--

 JIM COURIER:  I would never use that.

 Q.   What would you call your summer starting after Wimbledon?

 JIM COURIER:  I mean, let us look at my first half of the year.
 I may never duplicate that in my career again.  That was something
that you know, four tournaments in a row on two different continents,
two different surfaces, from Tokyo on through to the French. 
It was unbelievable.  I mean, for me, I still can't fathom that
I made it through, you know, almost three months without losing
a match.  And, you know, I was having a good year prior to that
too.  I had been in a bunch of finals, won the Australian.  Shoot,
it is tough to match up with the first half of the year. You know
if I do that, then, you know, goodness, gracious, I am going to
be almost on another planet.

 Q.   Jim, you said that after today you feel real good.  I
mean, is it a Grand Slam that always is a mystery; you have no
idea how you are going to do?  Did you come in here having no
idea?

 JIM COURIER:  You never really know.  You come in and you hope
that you are physically and mentally fresh and ready to go and
you give it your best shot.  There is no-- you can't go to see
a palm reader or anything like that and tell you how you are going
to do.  You come in; do your best.

 Q.   You can come in with a good feeling and do terrible?

 JIM COURIER:  Sure.  Edberg came in two years ago; lost first
round.  He was on a five tournament win streak.  He was feeling
pretty good.

 Q.   You were talking before about your patience on the court
today.  Was that reflected the way you dealt with the rain delays
and perhaps the way he didn't deal with it?  He was upset when
the rain came and he had to keep on serving?

 JIM COURIER:  That is another thing.  I just wasn't really worried
about any of that stuff.  There is nothing you can do about it.
 

 Q.   Jim, how did you develop that kind of inside-out forehand
like a right-handed batter hitting to right field?

 JIM COURIER:  Repetition.  I don't really know.

 Q.   So you take what happened to you in the summertime or
the way that you played in the summertime was almost sort of natural,
or inevitable after such a first good six months?

 JIM COURIER:  I don't think anything is inevitable.  You try
to do your best.  I certainly was given everything I had.  I didn't
play, you know, as well as I did in the first -- through that
period.  I had a little lull but, you know, I think that everything
is back in gear, and you know, it is very difficult, I think,
for an athlete to try and peak five times in the span of three
months which is what they are asking for us to do - when you play
French, Wimbledon, Olympics, U.S. Open, and then go on to the
Davis Cup.  After that, I think it is very tough for an athlete
of any sport to peak that many times.  That is what we are trying
to do.  You do your best.  Hopefully, I am peaking again now.


 Q.   Is being number one much fun as it may have seemed from
the outside looking in?

 JIM COURIER:  You want to switch for a day?  I don't know.  You
can go sign some autographs.  Some days is better than others.


 Q.   I mean, what are the down sides to it that maybe you
didn't expect?

 JIM COURIER:  I said this in Indianapolis, it is not like you
wake up in the morning and go, Whoa, I am number one. It is not
something that you can reach out and grab, you know, it is in
the back of your mind, but winning a tournament or winning a match
is something that you can say, on this day and date, I have done
it.  The ranking is a 52 week process that says that you have
played the best tennis over the last 52 weeks, not necessarily
today, that today you are playing the best or whatever, just means
over the last year you played the best.  It is not something you--
really that you can reach out and grab.

 Q.   Aside from money, has it changed your life in tangible
ways, like people calling you or wanting to talk to you that you
didn't know before?

 JIM COURIER:  No, not really.

 Q.   Are you rushing the net, making a point of doing so more
than in the past?

 JIM COURIER:  I am doing whatever in each match needs to be done.
 

 Q.   When you talk about the everything is back in gear, is
there a first-- sort of first thing that has to-- that clicks
in or has clicked in over the last couple of weeks or this match
or something that everything else rolls off of, Jim?

 JIM COURIER:  I wish I knew, Richard.  If I knew I'd never have
bad matches.  That is the world's biggest mystery for the tennis
players is why some days you have it and some days you don't.
 But that is what we keep striving and searching for.

 Q.   So you don't know whether you are going to still have
it come Friday or Saturday, the next match or do you feel confident
now?

 JIM COURIER:  I feel pretty good.  Sometimes you get that confident
feeling, and that carries into the match.  And I feel pretty confident
right now.

 Q.   What do you think the chances are of anybody winning
the Grand Slam, all 4?

 JIM COURIER:  I don't know.  What do you think?  I wouldn't bet
on it.

 Q.   Jim, I know this is kind of silly, but I will ask anyway.
 Can you see yourself playing at this level when you are 40 the
way Connors is doing it?

 JIM COURIER:  Definitely not.  

 End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT