NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PISTONS v CELTICS
May 30, 2008
Flip Saunders
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Sorry to have to ask you this question, but ESPN, you know, they talked about Lindsey, talked about what Rip said to Sheed and all that. Can you just tell us again so we know, that that's kind of how this team is?
 COACH FLIP SAUNDERS: Yeah, it was kind of more in jest and joking than anything else. I think they're saying, you know, you can maybe hug a little bit, but let's make sure you don't forget about hitting, getting in the post and hitting and doing those things. But that's the way the team is as far as being able to talk to guys about those situations. 
 But our league has kind of become that. What's happened so much is so many of these guys growing up now playing in AAU basketball, they play on the same team, they become so close, that that's kind of how it's become. In the old days you never acknowledged the other team at all. But that's kind of how it's been. 

 Q. Just to clear that up for good, there's no dissension in the locker room?
 COACH FLIP SAUNDERS: No, no. 

 Q. How is Rip Hamilton? Is he starting? Any limitations on him?
 COACH FLIP SAUNDERS: It'll be a game decision, but as of right now we anticipate he's going to start. I'm sure he's going to have a little bit of soreness and we'll have to just kind of wait and see how he is when he starts playing, what he can really do. 
 Most guys I'd worry a little bit. Him, when it comes to shooting, he'll find a way to get it off, so that doesn't concern me nearly as much. 

 Q. What have you said or what do you plan to say to Rasheed about the technical foul situation?
 COACH FLIP SAUNDERS: He's had a lot of people talk to him, just he knows where he's at. He tries to watch himself, but he's got to kind of watch the fine line of knowing that he still has to play with emotion but he can't get carried away. I think the technical he got in the last game really wasn't a T, probably as Perkins' wasn't a T. Probably the reason Perk got a T was because Sheed got one, probably make up more than anything else. That's where we're at. 
 Like I said, he understands the importance of him to the team and that he's needed.

 Q. If Rip is limited and you have to go on a short leash with him, what's the confidence level with Rodney Stuckey having to play more minutes based on the way he's performed so far in the playoffs?
 COACH FLIP SAUNDERS: We have confidence in Rodney. He's been one of our better players and one of the most consistent players during this series. He's the one guy that has the ability to break people down and get to the basket, create for other people. We wouldn't hesitate using him. He'd probably also use Arron Afflalo a little bit if Rip is not able to go much. 

 Q. If there is any concern about Rip's ability, would you consider changing the active list and maybe making Juan active?
 COACH FLIP SAUNDERS: No, I think as of right now he's planning on going, so he's going to play. As of right now. That can change, but we've still got a little bit of time yet. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT