NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CAVALIERS v PISTONS
June 2, 2007
Flip Saunders
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Flip, obviously disappointed with the outcome, the season, could you talk about your message?   
 COACH SAUNDERS I really didn't talk much afterwards.  We'll talk tomorrow, we'll get our group together.  I really didn't say much, to be honest, I just got our guys together and said "We'll talk later."   
 Like I said, it was disappointing, they played well.  Gibson had a phenomenal series for them, and you get in a situation where you're trying to -- LeBron kills you one game and you want to not let him, you know, totally get off, and you give him a little bit -- more people running at him, and Daniel made every big shot.   
 And the big key was, you know, we came down and threw it away, LeBron gets a three-point play and Daniel Gibson hits a couple threes, and all of sudden we're playing from behind from about the ten-minute mark.   
  
  Q.  Could you explain your substitution at the start of the fourth, you had Lindsey and Flip on the floor, were you just trying to make sure that Chauncey and Rip were fresh?   
 COACH SAUNDERS:  Trying to get those guys fresh.  We made a decision we were going to play more guys and buy those guys a couple minutes, and that couple minutes right there was -- we didn't score a couple and kind of did us in.   
  
  Q.  Flip, can you just talk about the growth of Daniel Gibson in this series?  He came in as kind of averaging about three points a game, obviously grew into a tremendous force?   
 COACH SAUNDERS:  He continued to make big shots.  I thought it started in the New Jersey series, where he started making big shots and doing some things and he just continued to make big shots.  When he shoots like that from three, even if you're in the game -- he made shots under pressure.   
  
  Q.  How do you account for the poor shooting?  It seemed like every time you guys had a chance to spread the game you would --   
 COACH SAUNDERS:  You exert a lot of energy defensively, and does it affect you offensively?  Who knows?  But our shooters never really got into a rhythm as far as anytime in this series and you've got to give them credit for that, too.   
  
  Q.  Flip, you've been around this team long enough to know speculation is going to begin the minute this game is over about you and the players and the future and things like that.  How comfortable or confident do you feel as the head coach moving forward from here on out?   
 COACH SAUNDERS:  I feel comfortable, I think the players do, too, we've got to go and get better.  That's basically what you do.  Every year there is only one team that's happy and all the other teams are doing things to try to get better.    
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT