MLB WORLD SERIES: METS v YANKEES
October 20, 2000
Al Leiter
Mike Piazza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Al, what about the line-up you're facing, a lot of people are saying it's
advantageous to you and Mike Hampton. 

AL LEITER: It's only an advantage if the pitcher is able to make quality pitches and
execute. Every hitter has a strength and weakness. If you look at a well-pitched game,
it's generally a pitcher who stays away from the middle of the plate, is able to switch
speeds and keep it away from the fat part of the bat. I don't necessarily agree with that.
From my understanding, there's a couple lefties who hit well against lefties. It will be
my ability to continue to execute pitches, know what we want to do, their strength and
weaknesses, and throw it. 

Q. Question for Al, two-part question. What do you remember about the day the Yankees
traded you, and what do you remember about the day the Mets traded for you?

AL LEITER: I remember the day that Michael Kaye lied and said I was crying when I was
driving away from here. He was a beat writer for the Post. I didn't actually cry. That was
a fan, her name is Milly. All the Yankee fans knew Milly. He made a nice story of my
getaway from Yankee Stadium. I was upset. I grew up in the area, three years before that.
I was pitching, here I was a teammate of Winfield and Guidry and Mattingly, very
impressionable. Over a period of time, it's eleven years that I've grown up so much
mentally and physically. I've been through so much in my career with injuries and
setbacks, wondering if I'd become a Big League pitcher again. So no hard feelings, it's a
fond memory. One of my most memorable moments is still my debut here in September of '87,
which I'll never forget. Your next question was leaving the Marlins after a World
Championship and a very exciting time for the Florida Marlins, knowing full well they were
getting rid of everybody, and I was thrilled to death that the team was the Mets. I grew
up a Met fan; and having played for the Yankees and living in the area, any time a player
gets an opportunity, in my opinion, to play for the team that he rooted for as a kid, now
here I am in a World Series, actually possibly going to do my share to help win a
championship, it's a big thrill. 

Q. Mike, can you contrast your experience in LA compared to New York, even now as it
percolates even more? Considering you're probably the most watched player in New York
right now. 

MIKE PIAZZA: I am? (Laughter.)
AL LEITER: He said "probably." 
MIKE PIAZZA: Probably, okay. (Laughter.) What was the question? Like compare?

Q. You came from a laid-back situation in LA to what this is. What's the difference?

MIKE PIAZZA: Well, I mean I've said many, many times before that both places are
totally unique and definitely have their positives. Obviously, coming to New York has been
a great situation for me, personally. Coming to an organization that made a commitment to
try to put a World Series team on the field, and now having accomplished that is something
very gratifying. As everyone knows, as you all know in baseball, there's no guarantees in
this game. Teams will look great on paper, but you still have to play as a team. As I've
said before, to be part of a team, a bunch of guys that pull for each other, in this day
and age is kind of rare. I think as far as just guys that we really believe that the only
way we're going to win is everybody contributing. So as I said, for me, it's kind of funny
when I still get asked about LA questions, because it's almost now been three, almost four
years ago already. So it's something for me, I just take with a grain of salt and realize
I'm a member of the Mets, and this is obviously concentrating on just trying to help this
team win a World Championship. 

Q. Al on the days he starts has a real game face and doesn't even appear to talk to
teammates much. How much do you talk to him on the days he starts, and is it purely about
the other line-up when you do talk?

MIKE PIAZZA: Yeah, we have a routine. We go over the line-up. We're kind of
superstitious, so we try to do the same things when we pitch well, when we've had good
games. Al's professional. He has his routine. I try to get on the same page with him, and
we just want to go out and execute the pitches and do the best we can. I mean, there's all
kinds of situations. As far as Al, he's a professional. We've had some great times on the
mound, and that's what we're looking forward to tomorrow night, just to execute our
pitches; if we have a lead, keep a lead; if we get down early, keeping our team close.
There's all kinds of things. You don't know. You just want to pitch well. And sometimes
pitching well is not always going out and throwing a no-hitter. It's, as I said, pitching
according to the situation, and that's what we want to do. 
AL LEITER: I just try to keep Mike happy. Mike, how you feel today?
MIKE PIAZZA: I don't know how I made it this far, actually. 

Q. Were there times when the team started scuffling along in September that you doubted
you'd be here? Also, were there times you watched the Yankees in the regular season
freefall that you thought they were finished?

MIKE PIAZZA: Well, of course. It didn't look promising at the beginning of the month
for us. And as I've said many times before, we could have taken that as a negative and
allowed ourselves to get down, or we could have taken it as a positive and used it as
motivation. That's what we did, and I'm sure the Yankees did the same thing. They peaked
at the right time, were able to bounce back. Won a key game against Atlanta, going to
Philadelphia, won that series. So we ended the season on a positive note and we obviously
took that into the post-season. So, as I said, you can argue momentum. Both teams look
like they have momentum right now. I don't know, it's going to be interesting to see,
we're just excited and ready to go. 
AL LEITER: I think as a player you're always harder on your own team. Forget about what
we thought about the Yankees, I think they're a great team. They know how to win, and
they've certainly shown it by winning championships. Sometimes as a team member, when
you're so close to it, you forget that other teams stink now and then, too. Because you're
so critical on yourselves when you do go through a losing streak, you get a little testy
and a little -- not angry, but, "Hey, let's go. What do we have to do?" If you
keep the open perspective and realize other teams have ups and downs, too, we never gave
up on ourselves. That's what Mike was saying, I think of all the teams. I've been lucky.
I've been on a lot of teams that we really, really bond. The corny cliche of having good
team chemistry, what does it mean? To me, it means a lot. Really, truly, not only pulling
for Mike Piazza or Al Leiter as a teammate, but you care about them as people. It goes so
much deeper than that, that whatever he's doing on the field, there's a bond and there's a
closeness. It's not unusual for this year's Met team to be out somewhere, have 15, 20 guys
out together. There are some clubs that it's not like that. I think it's fabulous. 

Q. Mike, can you talk about any interaction you might have with Yankee fans who live
near you when you're living up here? Also, can you talk about the concept of people who
hate your guts but actually might like you if they met you?

MIKE PIAZZA: The concept of people who hate my guts. (Laughing.) You know what, again,
I can honestly say all the fans have been very gracious and very supportive. I've met
Yankee fans who have wished me luck, said, "I'm pulling for the Yankees, but good
luck." And I've met Yankee fans that have said other things. (Laughter.) So you know
what...
AL LEITER: Just don't go to Madison square Garden right now. For some reason, there's a
lot of Yankee fans out there. 
MIKE PIAZZA: As I said, as a player, it's kind of fun, especially in New York. I've
seen it on smaller levels in other cities, but it's fun to get into the rivalry thing and
experience it. But as I said, I've never had any problems. And as far as hating my guts, I
think if they saw the real me, saw how sensitive I am and what a nice person, they would
like me. (Laughter.)

Q. Al, are you really a grouch like Kevin Brown on the day you pitch? Nobody can talk
to you? You only snarl?

AL LEITER: No. But what I think I'm saying, I'll talk to whomever, but just don't talk
about the game or pitching or baseball. I generally have the ability to relax and try to
have fun with it, but there's also an internal fire and definite routine of what I'm
trying to do and a game-face about it. But I think my ability to relax and have fun with
it has gotten a lot better over the years. 

Q. One early World Series memory when you were kids, TV or in person?

AL LEITER: Watching the '69 Mets in the upstairs of my house in Ocean County, New
Jersey, when they won the World Series on a black and white TV. 
MIKE PIAZZA: First thing that came to mind for me was Pete Rose catching a popup off of
Bob Boone's glove in 1980. 

End of FastScriptsÃƒ ¢?Ã‚ ¦            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT