MLB WORLD SERIES: METS v YANKEES
October 23, 2000
Mike Piazza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Now that you've had some time to digest it, did it make any more sense, what
happened last night?
 
 MIKE PIAZZA: First off, I want to say I hope everyone kind of gets out what they have
to ask, and then I just really think it's important to move on at some point. But what can
you say? I mean, first off, the play was extremely bizarre. Secondly, I went out and
confronted him and asked him what his problem was. And, thirdly, he... Whatever. I can
assure you, if there was any sort of aggressiveness, if he would have said anything else
to me at that point, it could have been a different situation. However, there was a little
bit of -- so much ambiguity as far as the whole situation. I thought of every situation;
and obviously, I first off wanted to get back and try and get a hit off him. Then,
secondly, like I said, it was just a bizarre play. And knowing, as I said, as far as my
confusions where the ball was and where the bat was, and once the bat got by me and it
took me a second or two to comprehend what happened, I went out to confront him about it.
That was it, like I said.  
 
Q. Have you ever charged the mound? And, if so, what were the circumstances?
 
 MIKE PIAZZA: No, I've never charged the mound. Like I said, to me it's a question of: I
go out and I look at the guy. If he says anything to the point of -- that's basically my
rule of thumb. I basically look at him. If he says anything like derogatory or obscene, to
me, that's a problem. But he seemed extremely apologetic and unsure and confused and
unstable. (Laughter.) I just, like I said, I mean if he had a problem with me at that
point, I'm sure he would have been a lot more aggressive, and it would have been a
different story. As far as our team, as far as him, is it intimidating? First off, it was
idiotic. As far as intimidating, Roger Clemens has not intimidated our ballclub. It was
not an act of intimidation. The guy pitched a good game, number one. I think it is
obviously unfortunate that this is the incident that takes precedence over the ball game.
Number two, what is intimidation? I mean, it's idiotic. Like I said, I went out to
confront him about it; and obviously, he chose to -- whatever his excuse was. Like I said,
as far as demanding an apology, an apology is only as good as where the source is coming
from. So I really don't -- I could care less about an apology or anything else. Like I
said, it was a stupid situation. What can you say? So we reacted -- you could argue left
and right. You're damned if you do, damned if you don't. We punch him, guys get thrown
out, we're selfish. We back down, we... Whatever, we look gutless. So what is there to
say? It's the World Series. Obviously, we want to win a game. Now, being down two games is
-- we're in an unenviable situation.  
 
Q. Can you equate this to a batter who for whatever reason gets angry at a pitcher and
throws a bat in the general direction of the pitcher's mound?
 
 MIKE PIAZZA: I think that's premeditated, though. I mean, I think if a hitter is going
to throw his bat at the pitcher, he has his mind made up. As far as myself, looking at the
videotape, looking at the replay, it looks like he -- I don't know whether he was so
charged up with emotion, or whatever, that he caught the bat. His first reaction was to
throw it. Didn't know I was there; didn't know I was there. I don't know. Like I said,
that's all irrelevant to me. But as far as, like I had said, I wanted to make sure that if
he had a problem or he had a personal problem with me, if he still does or doesn't or
whatever -- whatever he wants. I have no problem talking with him about it now. Whatever.
So, like I said, the thing that our team is obviously disappointed about -- everyone's
opinions are opinions. We can't change their opinions. But we're trying to win a World
Series game. And as far as our team shows restraint, you could argue left and right. I
don't know. I mean it's obviously a no-win situation either way for us.  
 
Q. In order to be successful in Game 3, do you think it's good for your team today to
wipe the slate clean of everything from Games 1 and 2? Or do you take some of that emotion
from those first two games?
 
 MIKE PIAZZA: Well, I think you're never going to have a lack of emotion, as far as I'm
concerned. You get out on the field, you get in a situation, you're always charged.
Whatever. Whatever you've got to use to motivate yourself, sometimes it's personal. I
mean, to me, I want to win a World Series game, and I want to win a World Series.
Obviously, that looks very tough right now, but the series is not over. We've been down
before. So we got to fight back and hopefully beat these guys. We're going up against El
Duque. The guy can pitch. So and as I said, the fact, too, look at our ballclub, the way
we battled back both games and obviously fell short. With a little good fortune, it could
have been a different series. Obviously, it's not. So that's the most frustrating thing of
all.  
 
Q. If Roger Clemens is unable to distinguish between the barrel of a bat and a baseball
on the field and has the ability to throw 95 or 96 miles an hour, does he have any
business being on a Major League Baseball field?
 
 MIKE PIAZZA: To be honest with you, that's really not for me to say.  
 
Q. I mean, you've dealt with the issue of danger before. That's why I'm asking you in
particular. You were concerned about that in July. I'm wondering if you think, does he
present a danger, his mental state?
 
 MIKE PIAZZA: You're asking me if he needs a psychiatric evaluation? (Laughter.) 
 
Q. I'm asking if you, as a baseball player, are comfortable; and should other players
be comfortable if that's his state of mind out there.
 
 MIKE PIAZZA: Obviously, that should be something taken into consideration. Where it
goes, I don't know. I don't know what the process is. However, I know as a hitter, my
first at-bat, I had not the least bit at all of intimidation or whatever. I mean, as I
said, you cannot go into that batter's box with a guy throwing like that and think about
getting hit. Like I said, my first at-bat wasn't great; he made some great pitches on me.
Obviously, Justice made a good catch. So I was hanging in there. I wasn't thinking at all
about it. Now, as far as back to what your question was, I don't know what the protocol
for that is. I don't know -- 20, 30 years ago it wouldn't have been an issue. This day and
age, who knows? The whole sort of situation, it could be a different protocol. I don't
know. And I do believe now that I have had time to think about it, I do believe his
actions should be looked at by Frank Robinson or whoever is in charge of conduct.  
 
Q. Do you guys take any momentum from the ninth inning yesterday into tomorrow's game?
 
 MIKE PIAZZA: I think so. I mean, you score those runs against two of the toughest
relievers in baseball. I think it goes without saying. I mean, it's a must-win tomorrow.
We can't afford to go down 3-0. We've been down 3-0, obviously, to the Braves, and we
almost came back and evened the series. But that's extremely difficult to do. So we've got
to come out tomorrow and do the best we can, and hopefully come out with a win.  
 
Q. You repeated last night how he tried to call you after hitting you in July. If he
followed that up a week later, three days later, how receptive would you have been to that
call?
 
 MIKE PIAZZA: What was the last part? 
 
Q. If he followed that up and tried to call three days later, a week later, how
receptive would you be to that?
 
 MIKE PIAZZA: I chose not to be receptive. I like to consider myself as a person who
doesn't talk a lot. Certain emotions and feelings I keep to myself. As I said, I didn't
think it was very sincere, so I didn't want to talk to him about it. I mean I wasn't --
but that's me. I don't know what the whole issue is of apologies and calls and where this
got started. To me, that situation was he... Whatever. He threw the pitch; I said what I
felt. I didn't feel the need to go back and forth with this dialogue. You know? So as I
said, personally though, I mean it's irrelevant how I feel about him. On the field, it's a
game, and we're trying to win that game. But the bottom line is we're trying to win a
World Series. So I mean, unfortunately, this is a situation that has taken prominence over
the ball game, which is unfortunate. But that's the way it is.  
 
Q. Looking at it objectively, does Roger -- not just your incident, but other
incidences, do you think he gets away with more than most pitchers?
 
 MIKE PIAZZA: Again, that's subject to debate. I think it goes back to -- as I said many
times before, and I don't want to beat an issue to death, it's the whole issue of the DH
again. Like I said, I've DHed, had success DHing. Obviously, it's something I could do
maybe toward the end of my career, but I don't like it. I mean, I do not like it
personally. And I think that's an issue that needs to be talked about. But like I said,
you debate it forever. But you think about it, when a guy like that has to come to the
plate four times a game, it's going to make a difference. It may sound like talk, but
whatever. That's just my opinion.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT