MLB WORLD SERIES: METS v YANKEES
October 22, 2000
Mike Piazza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 

Q.  Mike, do you agree with that assessment, that he didn't throw the bat at you?
 
MIKE PIAZZA: Do I agree? I don't know.  I think I was more just sort of confused and shocked as everybody through the whole thing.  So I just  -- I mean, after that, what could you do? I just concentrated on trying to finish the game.  
 

Q.  Do you think that was an attempt at all to intimidate you, or did that cross your mind?
 
MIKE PIAZZA: As I said, I don't think it's an attempt.  I just was confused.  No. 1, I was a little disoriented, because obviously, my bat shattered, and I had really no idea where the ball was.  As a matter of fact, even when everybody came out, I talked to the umpire  -- one of the umpires, I said,  "Where the hell did the ball go?" I really had no clue.  So when I started slowly jogging down the line, because, again, I really was just as  -- I had no idea where the ball was.  Then, again, when he threw the bat, I basically after that just walked out to see what his problem was.  I started asking him.  He really had no response.  So I was taken aback.  It was bizarre.  It was bizarre.  
 

Q.  What did you yell at Roger?
 
MIKE PIAZZA: I asked him what his problem was, basically.   I mean, I didn't know what the problem was.  I didn't know  -- I had no clue what  -- again, I was trying to figure out if it was intentional or not.  I was going to ask him.  If it was, then obviously he really had no response.  I was kind of  -- by the time I kept asking him, obviously, there was intervention by everybody else.  
 

Q.  Reading his lips, it seemed like he was saying,  "I thought it was the ball." Did you hear him say that?
 
MIKE PIAZZA: No, I didn't.  I really didn't.  (Laughter.) I don't know.  (Laughter.) 
 

Q.  Does that cause you to lose more respect for Roger? I know you said you lost respect.
 
MIKE PIAZZA: I think it's irrelevant.  It's just so bizarre.  I hate this to be an incident that we remember for a game that was such an interesting ball game, that was obviously on our part, our team to come back like that against two quality relievers.  I mean that, to me, like I said, after it occurred, the umpire came out, he told me what he said.  So what can you do?  I mean, it was over as far as I was concerned.  We went on with the game.  
 

Q.  When you were surprised by the incident and you went to say something to him, did he say to you,  "Oh, I didn't mean to throw it at you," or anything to that extent?
 
MIKE PIAZZA: No, I mean, like I said, I was just waiting for a response.  I didn't know if he was going to say  -- I had no idea.  He didn't say anything.  So what could I do?  I just kept asking him, trying to get him to  -- I really didn't understand.  I was trying to get him to say it was an accident or whatever.  He didn't say anything.  So by the time, like I said, I didn't get a response, there were more people out there.  So what are you going to do? 
 

Q.  Did you see him catch the bat?  Did it just kind of skip off the ground up into it?  Did you see that?
 
MIKE PIAZZA: No, that's the thing.  I mean, my head went down.  Obviously, the bat was completely sawed off.  Believe it or not, I really had absolutely no clue where the ball was.  I could count on my hand the number of times that has occurred.  I mean, it happened before.  I mean, I have very thin-handled bats, and they have a tendency to break in that fashion.  
 

Q.  Even the barrel, you didn't see the barrel go toward him?
 
MIKE PIAZZA: I saw the barrel.  But like I said, after I saw the bat break, I was trying to pick up the ball.  I kind of took my eyes off him, and I was trying to find the ball.  I didn't know if it was a ground ball to shortstop or a popup or what.  That's the thing that really, for me, confused me and disoriented me more than anything.  Then, like I said, when the bat came flying at me, I was just like  -- then I went out.  I said,  "What is your problem?" I kept asking him,  "What is your problem?" He didn't say anything.  If he would have said something, maybe it would have been a little different.  I don't know.  
 

Q.  How close did the bat come to you, and what do you read into the fact that your teammates poured out of the dugout and went directly to the mound?  They thought there was something involved, didn't they?
 
MIKE PIAZZA: Well, I think that's obvious.  I mean, I've said before, my teammates have always supported me.  If they thought it was intentional, they came out to make sure that I wasn't in a vulnerable situation being among their team. That's usually the protocol when it comes to something like that.  But as I said, I really  -- if I was kind of waiting for something more  -- if he was, like I said, throwing the bat at me intentionally, you're going to keep an aggressive tone or manner or anything like that.  So I just  -- it was bizarre.  I can't really describe it.  I've never been  -- the bat kind of came back at me that way.  I was obviously a little bit angry.  But as I said, I went out to talk to him about it.  And it seemed like by the time I tried to get  -- as I said  -- I hate to sound like a broken record, but that's what happened.  
 

Q.  With all respect, considering what might have happened once he threw the bat, what difference does it make whether he threw the bat at you or threw the bat in your direction?
 
MIKE PIAZZA:  I'm sorry? 
 

Q.  He threw the bat in your direction.  Whether he was throwing at you or just threw the bat in the heat of the moment, isn't the result the same?
 
MIKE PIAZZA: Yeah, I guess that's what I said.  That's why I walked out in his direction.  I really thought, again, I was considering all possibilities at the time.  Just more shocked and confused than anything.  Like I said, it's not every day that happens.  I didn't know what to think.  It seemed like when I initially first looked at him, when it came in my direction, I was  -- obviously, he was extremely pumped up, and I just went out to ask.  That's exactly what happened.  I mean, that's it.  Everything after that is  -- that's what happened step by step.  
 

Q.  After an incident like that:  Bat's thrown at you, players pour out, it seemed like the team should have responded.  They should have been pumped.  Do you think on the contrary they were overworked, trying too hard to make something happen?  Or was he that dominating?
 
MIKE PIAZZA: You got me.  I mean, it's just one of those things.  I think maybe for us, obviously, it was a little too late in the game to come back, and obviously we gave them a few too many insurance runs.  It could have been a different story.  So it seemed like after that incident, everyone was just, you know, concentrating back on the game.  I didn't detect any sort of exterior aggressiveness to try and get him.  Obviously, he pitched a good ball game.  He made some good pitches when he needed to.  He did a good job.  
 

Q.  Should he have been ejected from the game?
 
MIKE PIAZZA: You know what? Doesn't really matter.  Like I said, I don't know what their  -- they thought that it was unintentional; that's the ruling.  Doesn't matter what I think.  
 

Q.  If he didn't say anything when you asked him,  "Did he have a problem," could you read anything into his facial expression?
 
MIKE PIAZZA: It seemed to me, like I said, he didn't seem like he was any more  -- I didn't think he had a problem.  That's what I said.  You know? I kept trying to talk to him; he wouldn't answer.  He wouldn't say anything.  I was expecting either, you know, something.  So it just kind of, like I said, took me back.  I didn't feel any aggressiveness after that.  Obviously, it could have been different.  But that's what happened, so I just went back, tried to get a hit.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT