UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 16, 2003
Tyrone Willingham
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.  After starting your career here at Notre  Dame coaching, 8-0, the last games have been a struggle.  Has the opposition made huge adjustments?  Was 8-0 an inaccurate indication of where you were in the development of the program, has the opposition been that much better or how would you assess that?

COACH WILLINGHAM:  I would prefer to look at it from the total.  I know there are those who prefer to look at individual parts of it.  There are some that will probably focus on, what is it, four of the last seven,  okay.  That's a preference. 

Q.  Last week I asked you about the relationship that you have with Bill Diedrick and why it works so well, that you share the same philosophies?

COACH WILLINGHAM:  Yes, indeed.

Q.  The quarterback has to make plays you can't put him in a perfect play all the time.  Does it hurt, is that philosophy hurting you a little bit as Carlyle struggles to get a grasp of the big picture?

COACH WILLINGHAM:  Well, we've said Carlyle's growth has continued and it has.  I think he's getting better.  There are points sometimes where that may not be visible with you.  It's also never just a quarterback.  And that's what we have to always keep in the right framework is that the problems of our offense are never just limited to one person, okay.  We as coaches believe we have to do a better job to put him in better position.  We have to have better execution, and that's the way we look at it. 

Q.  Would you consider altering or have you considered altering the West Coast offense in order to accentuate Carlyle's assets more a little bit, running skills?

COACH WILLINGHAM:  Well, you do what it takes to win.  That's the goal and we have always said that.  Do you curtail certain things at the expense of the entire team?  So you have to balance that and that's what we are constantly doing. 

Q.  After the game you were asked about the quarterback, who was going to be the quarterback, you said whoever the best player is.  I'm going to ask whether -- if Carlyle was losing -- you said potentially but not yet.  How close is Brady to overtaking Carlyle at this point?

COACH WILLINGHAM:  The word, I think it was potential, or potentially, something along those lines that was used on Saturday.  That is the case every day at our quarterback position,  at our guard position, at our tackle position.  It fits very comfortable with the words that we used earlier:  Best player plays.

Q.  How close is Brady as good to being as good  --

COACH WILLINGHAM:  Carlyle has still identified himself as the best quarterback.

Q.  If you struggle early against Michigan State are you more likely to bring in Brady faster than you have in the past?

COACH WILLINGHAM:  Well, please remember, again, please take into context, I know you're very interested in getting the next guy in there, okay, and I know that's not you necessarily.  But please understand that that framework is dictated by a lot of things that go on in the ballgame.  It is never just one position, okay. 

Q.  And along with that, last year the defense obviously made a lot of key plays, they are making some this year, but when you look at the stats, Notre  Dame is in the bottom half of almost every category.  Is there something that you see, a fix there that you see or is it just working harder or what is it ?

COACH WILLINGHAM:  All of the above.  And that is the easy way for the coach to get out, to say all of the above.  But it is true, we have got to do a better job in every category of defense, every category of offense.

Q.  Coach said that Jeff Smoker cannot start if he's still injured, they are going to bring in a red-shirt freshman in, Drew Stanton, who has not played at all this season over than some special teams plays.  How do you prepare for a quarterback you have never seen?

COACH WILLINGHAM:  Well, I think they would hold very true to their system.  Right now their running back, I think is Jaren, is playing very well, okay.  He's also been not only a good runner for them but also an excellent receiver for them.  They have an excellent receiver, so you are going to get the balls in the hands of the guys that can make big plays for you.  So they will continue to do that.  Now, they will do it based on what they believe Stanton can do.  So there will be, I think, some change, but not noticeably a total change or departure from their system.

Q.  After the game on Saturday, several of the players said they saw some mixture of anger and -- how do you catalyze that into something positive that they can use sort of an energy that they can use to get better this week.

COACH WILLINGHAM:  I think that anger speaks to a hurt, a dissatisfaction with what took place.  Our players are hurt and dissatisfied with what took place.  And being the competitors that they are, they will come back this week to redeem themselves which will mean practicing better performing better and hopefully that gives us the right method to move forward.

Q.  I believe the year that you guys went to the Rose Bowl at Stanford, you started out with a 69-17 loss that year.  What do you remember  -- do you remember how the team reacted to that and how you were able to turn that year around?

COACH WILLINGHAM:  Well, what we did is the same thing we do with any loss, is that you're very positive about the things that were good, and you really try to make quick and decisive adjustments about the things that were bad.  And then you move forward.  Because one game, if that's  the only game we lose, I think that will be an excellent season.  But what you have to do is focus on the next game.  You can't stay in the past nor can you get ahead of yourself to the future. 

Q.  You talked about Freddie Parish and what he did to put himself in a position for playing time and contributions this early in the season.

COACH WILLINGHAM:  Freddie had showed himself to be a bright, aggressive player.  And what we are looking for again is that guy that can step in and make plays and make major contributions to our defensive scheme, and Freddie is showing himself to be that type of player. 

Q.  You mentioned earlier, and I hope I'm quoting you right here, that Carlyle was making progress, but it might be progress that's not visible to the rest of us.  Can you share what progress that you've seen?

COACH WILLINGHAM:  Well, I've said all along, I thought his command of our system has been grueling, it started last spring and it continues.  Sometimes we take steps forward.  Sometimes we take a step or two back.  But it's all influenced by all of the things that go on around you. 

Q.  And have you ever been in a position where you've had a quarterback situation where you've had really two different systems for your quarterbacks?

COACH WILLINGHAM:  I have not.  We've been very fortunate in most cases we have been able to recruit  --

Q.  Do you have to bring in a couple this year, just to get the numbers up?

COACH WILLINGHAM:  Well, you'd like never just to get the numbers up.  You hope that what you're doing, No.  1 is focussed on the quality of the player.  So that will be the No.  1 goal, always seeking quality.  But in order for us to really operate and get things the way we would like, yes, we would like to have some numbers, also. 

Q.  Sticking with recruiting theme, when you're talking to players and you're thinking position switch for this kid, how do you approach a kid who maybe has his mind set on staying at a certain position and you're thinking of him at a different position?

COACH WILLINGHAM:  At what level are you speaking? 

Q.  High school player.

COACH WILLINGHAM:  It depends on the players.  You may give him the option to carry out or work to his dream first, and then you have an opportunity to bring him in if that's not working and then slide him into a position.  But usually my thought is, we have a pretty good idea what the young man has coached in, where he can play and usually we will work in that area first before we can talk about real position changes.

Q.  Does that change when he gets here?

COACH WILLINGHAM:  It depends on the individual and the needs of the team. 

Q.  To look at it from a different perspective, you played two games, that means you've played four halves, you're down 3-1 in terms of halves that's been played.  Is Notre  Dame football in trouble?  Can Notre  Dame win a first half and can you put over 38 points on the board?

COACH WILLINGHAM:  Interesting perspective. 

Q.  Thank you.

COACH WILLINGHAM: Yes; yes; yes; haven't yet; yes.  (Laughter).

Q.  The way you organize your practices, does the first string quarterback get almost all the reps with the first team and the second string quarterback just a few?  And since Brady is so new, does he get remedial help so he gets to do a little more than he sometimes would or did you not deviate that at all?

COACH WILLINGHAM:  We vary it.  We vary it based on situation.  There will be certain days that that ratio may change, certain drills it may change, just to make sure we are bringing that second guy along; that he does have enough practice time and enough composure to be prepared to play.

Q.  Does it depend probably more on the first string quarterback, what he needs, his needs are sort of addressed first and the second string quarterback?

COACH WILLINGHAM:  I think you have to.  Because if that's your first team guy, he's earned the right to be the first team guy.  You have to be sure that he's ready to play the game.  But the second teamer also has the ability at the point.  But in most cases in a system like ours, you expect the guy to do a great deal of it mentally.  Now that's unfortunate for this guy with his first opportunity because he does not have that base, that library to build from.

Q.  When you look back at the Michigan game and you are talking to the team through walk-throughs, practices, is that experience that you want to bring up as a motivator, or do you just kind of let it go and not forget it, but don't harp on it or bring it up again?

COACH WILLINGHAM:  You're speaking about the overall Michigan experience? 

Q.  Yeah, this week as you prepare for Michigan State, do you talk about Michigan?

COACH WILLINGHAM:  I think you have to.  I think you have to, because there are lessons from Michigan that we can grow from.  There are good things and bad things.  You have to find those things that can help your team go forward, and sometimes a negative can help you go forward.  Sometimes it's better spent working on the positive. 

Q.  As you look at the tape, specifically at the defensive line, Michigan obviously had a very talented offensive line, at the same time, were you surprised at Michigan's ability to really win at the line of scrimmage and hold the point of attack against a very veteran defensive front that you have?

COACH WILLINGHAM:  The thing that I've said all along is that we have to all be on the same page.  We have to be executing.  Michigan did a great job and there were stretches during that ballgame that I thought our defense stood up very well.  But when you play as many plays as our defense has played, it's very difficult to hang in there against a very good football team. 

Q.  Talking to Coach Diedrick when the subject of playing a freshman came up, he said they have to be physically ready, mentally ready, but on more than one occasion he said that maybe the most important being psychologically and emotionally ready.  What did you see maybe out of Brady, whether it be full camp, as you talked to him over the summer on occasion, that led to you believe that maybe he would be psychologically, emotionally ready to do some things this year, if need be?

COACH WILLINGHAM:  I think Brady has been and still is very eager to be our starting quarterback.  I think he's driven and he's driven to be the best and help this team be successful, and I think those are all positive qualities that have led him to this point where he has the balance okay to be ready to play. 

Q.  I ask this question not in a negative way to Chris Holson (ph) at all but last year when the subject of a No. 2 quarterback came up, is Pat was very much more in the race, obviously was healthy at the time as well.  But as yourself and Coach Diedrick talked about Brady and freshman playing this year, there seemed to be much more of a thought that Brady was maybe a little farther along or he had grasped the offense a little quicker.  I don't know if that's something natural, he was more suited to do this than year was last year, but what are some things that maybe have accelerated Brady's progress to the point where he's maybe a little bit farther area head than, say, what Chris was last year?

COACH WILLINGHAM:  I think you can lump that into just one quick gathering of words and say, Brady himself. 

Q.  Just a different personality, different perspective, all that?

COACH WILLINGHAM:  Yes. 

Q.  You had classified Mike Boosby as day-to-day week-to-week, month to month --

COACH WILLINGHAM:  Also year-to-year.

Q.  That's what I was getting to.  I wondered if at what point does he become year-to-year in the season, is there a point of no return where you say, we're not going to blow your eligibility to let him play two or three games?

COACH WILLINGHAM:  Well, there are a lot of things you have to consider.  First of all, there's no guarantee about an additional year.  There's always something that you have to work through, so you have to be very cautious there.  But at the same time, you want to do what's best for the team, okay.  And the different year, you reach that decision at different points. 

Q.  How does this year shape up?

COACH WILLINGHAM:  Still shaping. 

Q.  This is a big game for both teams, coming off two pretty big losses, Michigan State and Notre  Dame.  What would it do to either team's psyche to lose this game?

COACH WILLINGHAM: Well, I'm hoping I won't have to deal with that one.  You can ask Coach Smith that one hopefully.  But you have to go forward, okay.  You can't dwell on losses.  And to be very honest about it, you can't dwell on victories.  You have to go forward because both of those are detrimental to you if you allow them to be. 

Q.  What's that going to be like to host  your alma mater?  Last year you came up here with Notre  Dame and coming down there, are you excited, nervous?

COACH WILLINGHAM:  Excited, not necessarily because it's Michigan State; it's a great opportunity for our football team.  That will probably be the focus, the game.  It happens to be Michigan State. 

Q.  I heard about you maybe wear an MSU t-shirt on game day but not against MSU, is there any other memorabilia that you keep around that you wear on the practice field or anything like that?

COACH WILLINGHAM:  No. 

Q.  What was it like for you as a player from Michigan State coming to play the Irish, do you have any memories of that series?

COACH WILLINGHAM: Well, I think we most of the time, I don't think we had success.  I think we had success once as a player here.  You come in a game that's laden with tradition.  I remember as a young man watching the '66 ballgame between the two schools.  So the rivalry is kind transcended to the region, at least for me it did.  As a player, you know this is a big game.  You know Notre  Dame is a team that you focus on.  It's one that you would like to win.  So I believe the Michigan State team will come in with the same approach.

Q.  What was it like coming out of that tunnel for the first time?

COACH WILLINGHAM:  Which time, what team? 

Q.  For you as a player, coming out of that tunnel, first time.

COACH WILLINGHAM:  Gosh, I can't remember.  That's a lot of years ago. 

Q.  You mentioned earlier how when the offense struggles, it's not just the responsibility of just the quarterback.  How much of some of the problems may be just natural growing pains that come with having to replace some veterans on the offensive line?

COACH WILLINGHAM:  Well, we are not making any excuses about that.  All of the young men that we have, we expect them to step up and play.  We as coaches have to do an excellent job of getting them in the right positive, getting all the things done right with them.  Right now, as an offensive team, we have not executed.  We have got to do a better job of execution for us to be successful. 

Q.  Like you said Saturday, there was not much that went right, but I'm just wondering what your opinion is of utilizing the wide receiver, are you looking to get them more involved in the offense, do they have to be more involved in the offense?

COACH WILLINGHAM:  I think they have to be.  But I will say right now, our first focus is probably to make sure we shore up our running game.  Because if we can get that, I think it opens up other avenues for us in our passing game.  We have always said we want balance.  Usually when you say balance, you lean a little bit more toward the passing game in terms of overall numbers, but at the same time we have got to have an effective running game, because as you know, it does a couple of things for us.  One, it allows us to have some control of the clock and have some control of the ball.  In doing so, it helps us become a better defense and a better football team.  I think we need to start there and then branch out into our other areas with great balance and hopefully great execution. 

Q.  Speaking of the running game, I don't know if it's by design or by happenstance that Carlyle has not seemed to run the ball that much this year, has that been by design or just the way things have gone?

COACH WILLINGHAM:  I think it's really in some cases it's some growth on his part in terms of doing a better job of trying to work down through the system.  But the thing that we have always said, when you have a mobile quarterback, it is a plus in your system because he can create some things.  And when you have a quarterback that can create things, it puts additional pressure on the defense. 

Q.  I'd like to ask you about the execution you referred to and intensity during the game, as you pointed out numerous times it's difficult to know with certainty what's going on in someone's mind, certainly that includes players, but through our indications in the meter and actions such as obviously the hard-hitting versus arm-tackling, I'd like to ask you a two-part question.  One, would you agree that the level of intensity, the mental game, if you will, last Saturday was won by Michigan, and if so, how do you motivate the players?  You've already talked about  -- how do you help the players take the intensity from the practice field and put that into the game situation?

COACH WILLINGHAM:  I think I'm on record as saying there was not much good that came from the contest.  So I would probably agree with you that all battles Saturday were probably won by Michigan, and I think that's a fairly safe assessment there. But we've shown great intensity.  We've grown great tackling at times.  We've got to bet back to those things.  It's one of those scenarios again where you don't necessarily throw the baby out with the bath water.  We like what we are doing.  We will stick with what we are doing and we think that we have the young men that can do it, but on occasions you don't do it.  We try to address those issues and go forward.

Q.  If I may follow-up, how much is that consistency on the field, how much of it comes from emotion, from intensity, if you will?

COACH WILLINGHAM: I'm not sure if I can give you a percentage or  --

Q.  Not a percentage, but is it a major factor?

COACH WILLINGHAM:  Consistency is a major factor with? 

Q.  Is emotion intensity a major factor in producing consistency on the field during a game?

COACH WILLINGHAM:  I think it's an important ingredient, yes. 

Q.  I wanted to talk to you about Michigan State and their running defense.  They are ranked very high but they have not faced many teams that like to run yet.   This is an opportunity for you guys to come in and establish the ground game.  I wanted to get your thoughts on that offensive idea.

COACH WILLINGHAM:  I think even though they are ranked very high.  And some would consider that they have not played a team that runs the ball, or has made a major effort to, but I still think they do an excellent job.  And they will be geared up for our attack because they will believe that that is a face that we would like to strike and establish ourselves to be productive.  But I think they have got great players.  I have looked at them, they have speed, their ability off the edge as pass runners; and I think you can translate that ability, also to be quick in the run game.

Q.  And one other thing as far as Ryan Grant and Julius Jones, is there a difference between the two guys that would lend better to what you are going to see Saturday?

COACH WILLINGHAM: I think there is a difference between the two backs.  I think Julius, he's loose, and Ryan is more a lasher, but we love the style and combination that they bring to our offense.

Q.  Michigan State's quarterback situation has been a little bit of a flux this week.  Just curious how you go about preparing for the possibility of seeing two different quarterbacks, and does it matter a whole lot to Michigan State's offense if Jeff is at the helm?

COACH WILLINGHAM:  I'm not sure if I can tell you how much it matters to their offense.  I think that's probably better for their team to really give you those subtle differences. But I think for the most part, they will try to work within their system, because sometimes when you get out of the system, that way you eliminate other areas of their offense that have been very productive.  I think they will try to stay within that, and within doing so, match up that that quarterback does well within their system. 

Q.  Do you feel like you have a balance on offense?

COACH WILLINGHAM:  That is an unfair question because the numbers don't say anything about balance right now.   We have not been very effective, okay.  We have got to get effective.  We have got to get execution.  We're going to do all of those things.  To date, we haven't done that. 

Q.  To that end, looking back at Saturday's game, it seems like there were a lot of instances where you end up 2nd and 7, 2nd and 8.  How much does that limit your play-book or change what you can call there to get out of a 2nd and long situation?

COACH WILLINGHAM:  It's very difficult.  If you're faced with 2nd and 3rd-and-long all the time, it's very difficult to have a high percentage on those.  When you're in those medium distance areas, No.  1, you have the ability to force the defense to have to defend more things.  When you take that away from yourself, you begin to limit what you can do offensively. 

Q.  I know you practice indoors, preparation for the Michigan game, was that helpful, was their surface any different from the indoor practice you are used to, and did it have anything to do with the game?

COACH WILLINGHAM:  No, it did not have anything to do with the game.  The surfaces were very similar, but yet slightly different, I think, because of the outdoor conditions of rain and weather, and compacted just a little bit more.  But it was still an excellent playing surface.

Q.  Different from what you're accustomed to?

COACH WILLINGHAM:  For the most part very similar.  I'm not sure it is the same distributor -- we don't have astroturf.  We have that variety of fieldturf.

Q.  What was the reaction of the players?  Was it prepared for the record crowd and the noise?

COACH WILLINGHAM:  To the best of our abilities, I don't know anywhere that you can simulate 111,000 people and the noise that comes from that.  But to the best of our abilities, we tried to simulate that, and for the most part, I think they performed well against the noise.

Q.  How do you communicate when it's that loud?

COACH WILLINGHAM:  You practice that.  You practice all year long non-verbal communications, and when you don't have sound and you do different things; that, they were prepared for.

Q.  Looking ahead to the pep rally, any celebrities coming in?

COACH WILLINGHAM:  I am not aware of any. 

Q.  Are they helpful to the team, to motivate the team when you get name players, Regis or whoever?

COACH WILLINGHAM:  I think they are helpful.  There are search things important about the program, so it's always very useful to them. 

Q.  You say that you would like to establish a run and you think that that's your strength.  It appears that every defense you face is putting eight, nine at the line of scrimmage.  Is it a situation where you night have to throw just to be able to run?

COACH WILLINGHAM:  Well, your system is built on ability to do both.  When you're nine in the box, you throw.  When there's six in the box, you run.

Q.  Is that Carlyle's decision, you come in with a play and you see eight, nine guys up there?

COACH WILLINGHAM:  We have options on almost every play. 

Q.  A lot of people have had a lot of criticism towards Carlyle Holiday.  Do you think that's fair?

COACH WILLINGHAM:  If we are not performing, the quarterback, just like the head coach, receives more of the criticism, okay.  And more of the success and well wishes also; so it goes both ways.  That's part of the territory. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT