U.S. OPEN
September 4, 1996
Judith Wiesner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Judith, you missed many breakpoint opportunities. Were you nervous?
 
JUDITH WIESNER:  Not really.  I just -- sometimes I went for too much.  Sometimes I went for too little and, you know, I guess that is the difference between good and great players.  Great players, like her, they can really focus on the big points.  You know, it is like if I play somebody, you know, like the last time, last round I played somebody like that, I have a bit of an advantage.  I think she does in situations like that.  And -- I don't know, I mean, especially that one game in the second set, the first game in the second set, I had my chances, you know, first game of the first set I had three breakpoints, but every time she hit a great serve, so there is not a lot you can do.  You just have to forget those, but, you know, once the point is over, you have to get to the next one. 
 

Q.  Were you able to do that? Were you able to forget them? 
 
JUDITH WIESNER:  Yeah.  I think mentally I had a great attitude out there today.  I just tried to play every point and just, you know, not being down when I was down a set and Love 4, I just thought, you know, hang in there and play each point at a time and it is so important when you play somebody like Steffi because so easily you can go out there and having lost already once you go out on the court.  So -- many players, they go out and they would not have to play at all because inside they already lost.  So I really tried mentally to be in the match - not playing her, but playing somebody and, you know, it turned out to be good, but it wasn't good enough. 
 

Q.  Compared to other times you have played her, how did Steffi look to you out there today?
 
JUDITH WIESNER:  Well, you know, I think as an opponent, you don't really try to focus too much about her.  I was so busy thinking about myself.  So I realize that she was making a lot of errors in the beginning and I saw her play before and, you know, just happens every time that when you ask her she probably hasn't, you know-- is not going to tell you she played great or whatever.  Her standards are different, probably, I don't know. But I don't really care, because I am going to play my game and if she plays well, you know, then it is going to be that more difficult.  If she doesn't, then I am going to have a little  bit of a chance and I think I had that little bit of a chance today; at least, in that first set. 
 

Q.  When you are up a break in the first set, are you thinking that you can win the match?  Are you thinking that far ahead?
 
JUDITH WIESNER:  Not really.  I mean, once you do that, then you really going to be, you know, I would be tightening up and be really nervous thinking ahead about winning and stuff.  The problem was when I was up, I lost the next game very quickly and, you know, she tries to do that once you are up, she goes even faster, that -- kind of steamrolling you, and I just couldn't serve as well at that stage and probably that is why because I was trying to serve well and you give a little bit of extra effort in your serve and you should just play normal, your game.  But it is difficult because you think, okay, I just have to hold my serve and stuff, and at that moment you really tense up a little bit.  But I didn't feel like I was hitting the ball so great.  I had a bit of a problem with her balls because they were so deep and I had a problem on my forehand with her slice, so I felt end of the first -- beginning of the second set I felt I was hitting the ball better. 
 

Q.  Is there anyway to slow her down because she does play so quickly?
 
JUDITH WIESNER:  Yeah, but the pace we were going was  okay.  I mean, I didn't really try slow and it down.  I just went for the towel a few times because it was really humid.  I think the pace was okay.  We were just going along; didn't rush me at all.  But, you know, you probably want to break her rhythm a little bit, but I didn't try to do that because I like to play the same pace so it was good for me. 
 

Q.  Judith, obviously Steffi has compiled a record over her career that ranks up with the greatest players in history. In your mind, does she deserve to be -- history will regard her as up there with the Margaret Court's, the Martina's, the Chris Evert's?
 
JUDITH WIESNER:  Oh, definitely.  I mean,, you know, just hearing the introduction on court when you play her is like, oh, my God, you know, and sometimes you don't realize all the Grand Slams and stuff that she won, I mean, it is just so big what she has done for women's tennis, and I think she is going to have more wins.  She has a lot more years to go; she is going to have unbelievable record. 
 

Q.  As a senior member, what do you think of the youngsters on the court, Hingis....
 
JUDITH WIESNER:  Well, I mean, I saw a lot of players coming on.  A lot of them did well in the beginning.  A lot of them went away.  And I hope for them that they have a long career and I hope they can have the, you know, when they turn  30 they will be still around like me and have a lot of fun.  It is different because, you know-- it is completely different when I was 15.  I wasn't nearly as professional as they are and it is really hard out there. I hope they can keep it up for a while and they can enjoy.  It is easy when you come out and you are having a lot of fun and everything is new and you are just winning.  I hope they can keep it in perspective and can have, you know, a long career as well. 
 

Q.  Do you feel that you are at your physical peak at age 30 or do you feel your body is in a little bit of a decline?
 
JUDITH WIESNER:  Right now I feel a decline (laughter). 
 

Q.  Your two best Slams showings are this year, though. Are you playing as well as you ever had?
 
JUDITH WIESNER:  Yeah, that was my goal to reach, you know, at least the quarters at sometime in a Grand Slam.  I had reached the round of 16 a few times, but it is just tough to get to the next level, and, you know, I had a break in those few where I just beat a seed or I just got through a draw, when there was an opening, and I guess I need those kind of breaks sometimes, and I was looking for them a long time and I was looking for the right form and I just, you know, you don't know when it happens.  It can happen 20, at 30.  I was patient and I am there.  I hope I can go to the semis one time. 
 

Q.  She has been able to play through a lot of off-court  problems, a lot of on-court problems.  Do you sort of respect that for Graf what she has been able to do on the court?
 
JUDITH WIESNER:  Oh, yeah, I mean, I can't think of anybody who is having a more difficult time and I think what she enjoys playing a lot, so when she is out on the court, she can really forget about the other stuff, so I think, for her, it is kind of getting on the court is good for her.  I think. I mean, I don't know what she is thinking, but sometimes I am amazed how anybody can shrug off all that stuff and just go out and play that well.  It must be very difficult, but obviously she can. 
 

Q.  As a veteran player and a member of the Tour and everything, do you watch like Grand Slam finals on television? Do you like watching like a Monica/Steffi match or a big match?
 
JUDITH WIESNER:  Yeah, sure, I am a tennis fan. 
 

Q.  Is she beatable at the level she is playing at now?
 
JUDITH WIESNER:  I think anybody is beatable.  On a given day you can beat anybody.  There is no point in having a tournament if you know, if you pronounce the winner before the tournament starts. 
 

Q.  What do you think of the chances of your countryman Thomas Muster?
 
JUDITH WIESNER:  Tonight? 
 

Q.  Yes.
 
JUDITH WIESNER:  Well, I think it is going to be  80,000 people against 1.  But I think Thomas can take it.  He is tough enough.  It is going to be quite a match. 
 

Q.  What is next for you in your career? How far how long do you plan to play?
 
JUDITH WIESNER:  One tournament at a time - no, I think I had play the next season for sure, and I just don't want it look too far ahead.  It is just going to put me under pressure.  I really enjoy playing right now and competing and when you are younger to go out on a tournament and go on the court is more like a threat, you know, I am going to lose; I can lose.  It is like -- now, I just really enjoy competing and giving my best and, you know, if I lose, I lose.  If I win, I win.  I can take things in a different perspective now.  As long as I enjoy playing, I am going to keep playing. 
 

Q.  You played a lot of matches a lot of tournaments this year?
 
JUDITH WIESNER:  I did. 
 

Q.  Does your husband travel with you?
 
JUDITH WIESNER:  Yeah. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT