PACIFIC LIFE OPEN
March 12, 2005
Sesil Karatancheva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  First question.  
 
 
Q.  When you go home, you can say you won eight points in a row from Davenport.  Is that something you can take away with you?
 
SESIL KARATANTCHEVA:  No.  I think it's a good match.  I think so.  I mean, uhm, I'm 15.  So, you know, obviously there's a lot of things to work on.  I mean, if it didn't have a lot of things to work on, then I probably wouldn't be here.  Probably, you know, probably wouldn't even be like top hundred.  Probably already be No. 1 if everything was perfect and I didn't have any mistakes.  I think I need time to work on things and just get, you know, going.  
 
Q.  What kind of things? 
 
SESIL KARATANTCHEVA:  Technically serve mostly, frontly, No. 1, serve.  So, yeah, serve is the one thing that I think I should work on mostly.  
 
Q.  You seem to have improved your serve a great deal since last year.  Last year you weren't serving very forcefully at all.  Today you had a serve at 111 miles an hour.  Pretty good jump up. 
 
SESIL KARATANTCHEVA:  I think I've always had like the power, you know, the serve to go fast.  I don't think I really ever had the consistency.  So I think that's something I should need to work on because, you know, I have power, but if I don't have consistency, then I don't really have anything.  
 
Q.  Any nervousness going up against the world No. 1 the first time? 
 
SESIL KARATANTCHEVA:  The thing is, I was a bit.  I was a bit.  But it's just that, uhm, I was -- I wasn't really nervous, I was just a bit nervous.  In fact, I got more nervous once I lead at 2-1.  It was like, "Holy crap, I'm leading.  What the hell is wrong here?"  So, you know, I mean, you know, it was kind of a shock for me, you know.  I really never had this experience before.  So it's just kind of like, you know, I didn't really know what to do with my lead.  You know, I once felt calmer, you know, when she was leading.  I mean, I'm learning.  I'm learning.  Obviously, I think it's a good experience, match, and I'm just looking forward to the Nasdaq. 
 
Q.  Did Lindsay anything to you after the match?
 
SESIL KARATANTCHEVA:  Oh, yeah, she was really nice.  She said, you know, "Keep it up."  I mean, I'm just happy.  
 
Q.  What are the rules now?  Can you play a whole schedule now or are you still too young? 
 
SESIL KARATANTCHEVA:  I can play -- the last tournament I can play is Wimbledon, and then I have three weeks off till I turn 16.  So I probably play World Team Tennis for those three weeks.  I think, yeah, almost a full schedule.  
 
Q.  Who are you going to play for?  What team?
 
SESIL KARATANTCHEVA:  I don't know.  Whoever picks me.  I still don't know who pick me.  Hope I get picked.  
 
Q.  We enjoyed you greatly last year.  I think you enjoyed it, too.  I asked Sharapova before if she remembered your match.  She said she's played a lot of matches, didn't remember.  You remember last year, what you said you were going to do to her, what you almost did to her? 
 
SESIL KARATANTCHEVA:  I don't really remember everything.  
 
Q.  You said you were going to kick her ass. 
 
SESIL KARATANTCHEVA:  Yeah, I remember most of it, yes.  Well, you know, what, it's just, as I said, the last time, I was 14.  And, you know, as I said, it's better that I did it then and not now.  So, you know, it's just a thing that you need to go through to get to the point where I am now.  So I'm not -- I don't really feel sorry for anything I did or whatever happened, you know.  
 
Q.  I'm not saying you should. 
 
SESIL KARATANTCHEVA:  I just think it was a good lesson in every kind of way, good way, bad way.  You know, it's just kind of this thing that I look back now, I'm like, "You know what, it's a good experience to go through."  And I don't think I would have been the person today if that wouldn't have happened then, so I think it was a pretty cool thing.  
 
Q.  What experience do you take away from this match?
 
SESIL KARATANTCHEVA:  Definitely that I'm just -- I never really think that I kind of fit yet in those Top 10 players.  But after the match, I think that, you know, as my bracelet says, "Impossible is nothing."  I don't think it's really impossible things.  I think, you know, as long as what you are out there for and what your goals are, I think you can get to, you know, whatever you're aiming for.  So, you know, I just think that, you know, as long as you believe in yourself.  I personally think that the thing I took out of this match is that I just think you should believe in yourself more and that, you know, there's nothing that you can't do.  
 
Q.  Did you choose those words for your bracelet? 
 
SESIL KARATANTCHEVA:  No.  Actually, I like it because I got it -- it's from adidas.  I got it because they're cool words actually.  
 
Q.  You played a woman today who has been a model for gracious mannerly conduct.  When you grow up, do you ever expect you'll be like her?
 
SESIL KARATANTCHEVA:  I'm sorry, like who?  
 
Q.  You played a player today who has been a model of gentle behavior.  Do you think when you grow up you'll ever be like her?
 
SESIL KARATANTCHEVA:  I hope so.  I think she is -- I think she's a young woman to be looked at.  I think that, you know, everything she's done - and still does - you know, I think just something that all our little kids, young, you know, should look at it because I think it's really nice to have a person like her up there, you know, just nice and positive on the court and off the court.  I think it's just a good person to look at.  
 
Q.  When you watched Sharapova win at Wimbledon last year, were you thinking, "I had her down a set at Indian Wells"?  Did you flash back to that?  She went from here to winning the Wimbledon title in about three months. 
 
SESIL KARATANTCHEVA:  I don't really look at it that way.  I kind of looked at it, you know, if you look at the match back then, I don't think I played my greatest tennis and I don't think she did either.  I think it was just kind of match, you know, of what said what and what did what before that.  I don't think either of us played, you know, the best tennis of our lives.  That's why, you know, the match kind of got tight in the beginning and everything.  So I'm not really sorry for that.  I don't really flash it back because it's not really like my best game ever, so I can't really look at it.  But, uhm, in a matter that I won the first set and I was leading, yes.  You know, a lot of people say this win could have changed your whole life.  But, you know, I don't think one win can really do this.  I mean, if it was one win, then probably, you know, why would you aim for the first place or why would you try to win a whole Grand Slam?  I think it's just all those one wins that you win and gets you to a point, I think that's more important, beating one player, and fall behind.  
 
Q.  Have you ever seen her in a hotel lobby or talked about this?
 
SESIL KARATANTCHEVA:  No.  
 
Q.  Are you still working closely with Nick? 
 
SESIL KARATANTCHEVA:  Yeah.  I work in the academy.  I work with my dad now, too.  I work with -- you know, I'm just getting ready, you know, working my way through.  
 
Q.  Last year Nick was talking about going on the road with you.  Is he still traveling a bit? 
 
SESIL KARATANTCHEVA:  He's coming to Miami.  So, I mean, it's Nick.  I don't know what his plans are.  But, you know, I hope he does come.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT