CLEMSON UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 7, 2016
Deshaun Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
Clemson - 56, Boston College - 10   
 Q.  Talk about where you are a couple weeks into the season.  Do you think you're right where you want to be?  
DESHAUN WATSON: Yeah, I think I'm where I want to be.  A lot of mistakes, a lot of -- not so much mistakes but learned lessons throughout my first five games, and I wanted to come in here and be as smooth as very productive as I can, help this offense, and not do the same mistakes that I did the previous week and just improve.  I think it's not just me individually but the whole offense has been improving each and every week, and we're getting better, building more confidence, playing as one unit, and we have so many athletes and so many playmakers that we're all just not being selfish, we're all cheering one another on, and whoever's time it is and the opportunity that comes, they take advantage of it.   
 Q.  How do you focus on the job that's in front of you versus all the outside noise?  
DESHAUN WATSON: Because we have the one-game mentality and one-week season.  Each week we try to be 1-0.  We don't look forward to the next game or the game past.  After that one day, after we play, we turn our focus on to whoever we have next.  Now we're going to celebrate this win, and tomorrow is about the 0-0 and try to be 1-0 next week.  We're going to put all our focus and all our time and energy into that one game and then move on.  That's just the coach that's been here has said from day one.  Even before I committed, ever since Coach Swinney has been here, he's had that one-week mentality.  It's just built in from the coaching and everyone understands it.   
 Q.  After you had that pass today for the touchdown, it seemed like you had good rhythm.  Did that pass get you going tonight?  
DESHAUN WATSON: Just a little thing, just opening up the run game, opening up the passes here and there.  It's always passes like that that kind of connects, not just for me to get my rhythm in, but also the whole offense.  But once we connect on those passes and do the little things right, the big things open up.  Once we start clicking, it's hard to stop us.   
 Q.  I think you were the last offensive starter to come off the field.  Was there a focus tonight on making sure to get four good quarters in and string them together?  
DESHAUN WATSON: I have no idea.  That was the coach, Coach Swinney -- I think they probably wanted to take me out before then, but I don't know, I think they probably just left me in.  They probably wasn't even thinking about it.  But it was a great time while I was in, had an opportunity to play with a lot of different receivers, different O-linemen, different running backs.  It was great to get out there and have a rhythm.   
 Q.  Was this the most complete 60-minute game you guys have played so far this year?  
DESHAUN WATSON: I think so.  We had a little slow start in the second quarter, but all three phases kind of hit, and it just kind of went from there.  But I think it was probably the best game we had this year, and we've got to improve on it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT