COLLEGE FOOTBALL PLAYOFF SEMIFINAL AT THE CAPITAL ONE ORANGE BOWL: CLEMSON VS OKLAHOMA
December 27, 2015
Deshaun Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  When you were growing up, are you more of an NFL fan or a college fan, and either way, when you finally got to this point, did you ever dream that you'd be in a playoff game in college?  
DESHAUN WATSON: I grew up more college.  A little bit of NFL just because the Falcons are right down the street.  Just a bigger college fan because that's the video game I liked to play, just growing up seeing that and playing the game.  I didn't think that the playoff committee was going to become a part.  I didn't think I was going to see another playoffs until the NFL.  But hey, it's here, and I'm enjoying it so far.   
 Q.  What teams did you play with the most when you were playing the college video game as a kid?  
DESHAUN WATSON: As a kid probably Florida.  I used to love playing with Tim Tebow, and then as the games, as I got older, I started playing with Oregon a little bit more.  I just liked to spread the teams around and do the up-tempo little things.  That was probably the main two.   
 Q.  From an outsider's perspective, what do you see in Baker Mayfield?  
DESHAUN WATSON: Yeah, he's a special player for their team.  You know, he does a great job because without him they wouldn't be in this position.  It takes a special guy to lead a great team, and they're pretty good, and they wouldn't be here for no reason.   
 Q.  The Oklahoma defense, does it remind you of anyone you've played this year?  
DESHAUN WATSON: No, not really, just because they're their own style.  They have their own way of doing things, and they have their own -- they're their own team.  When I go to play different teams I don't compare them to no one else.  I respect everyone, and they're very good.  They wouldn't be at this point for no reason.  We just have to go out there and play.   
 Q.  Have you talked to Chad much throughout the season leading up to the big game about what he's been doing and what you've been doing?  
DESHAUN WATSON: Yeah, we keep in touch all the time, but it's not really about so much football.  It's just about checking on the family and checking on each other, and just regular conversation.  Whenever we talk football, it's very brief.  We just talk about how we're doing, and hopefully we get to see each other soon.  We've always had that great relationship.   
 Q.  Given the role that he had in getting you here, he was one of those first guys that was recruiting you and obviously paid a lot of attention to you to make sure you ended up at Clemson.  Is there any part of you that's kind of sad that he's not here with you, or when he decided to leave was it difficult?  
DESHAUN WATSON: I mean, it was hard, but at this level I understand what this role and what this business is, and he had to take the next step.  I knew during my recruiting process that some day he would be a head coach.  God don't make mistakes.  It was just time to move on and take that next step.  We talked, and it wasn't really hard for me because we had that relationship, that chemistry, that even though he's going to leave we're still going to have that bond and communicate.  I'm his biggest supporter and No. 1 fan, and whenever we're not playing, I'm going to try to watch SMU and support them.   
 Q.  How is Coach Swinney's personality different than what you expected coming in?  
DESHAUN WATSON: Nothing really.  I mean, everything he showed in recruiting has been true ever since I've been here.  He's probably the realest coach I've ever talked to and been around, and he's going to make sure you're a great citizen first before football player, and then make sure you get your degree.  Everything he sells in recruiting is the same thing he brings out whenever you get here.   
 Q.  Is your mom going to be at this game?  
DESHAUN WATSON: She will.   
 Q.  What has that meant to you to have her at all these games?  
DESHAUN WATSON: It's a blessing to have her in the stands and just to have her see her son achieve the dreams that I always dreamed about, and every time when I was a little kid I told her I wanted to play college football and be at this stage, and now I'm here.  So being able to have her in the stands and support me is great.   
 Q.  How is she doing?  
DESHAUN WATSON: She's doing good.   
 Q.  Some of the Oklahoma defenders are saying they have to keep you in the pocket, that if they let you out of the cage they're going to have a big problem.  What do you think about that?  
DESHAUN WATSON: You know, it's on them.  They're going to have a scheme and try to contain me, but I've still got a job to do.  Either way, if I'm outside the pocket or in the pocket, I've got to do my job.  We just have to see what happens, and they have their strategy and we have ours.   
 Q.  Do you feel like you're more dangerous when you are able to get out of the pocket?  
DESHAUN WATSON: I feel like I'm dangerous either way.  I would say -- I didn't throw 3,500 yards for no reason, and they weren't always outside the pocket.  Either way I feel like I'm pretty dangerous, and that's just the confidence I have in myself and my teammates.   
 Q.  Coaches have said that the deep ball is your specialty.  Where did you develop the penchant for throwing it like that?  
DESHAUN WATSON: It just started back in high school, and my coach teaching me how to really control the ball while it's in the air.  Just over time practicing it and just working on my craft, that's what I did, and just learning tips and different ways of throwing the ball.  As I grew up, and I'm still trying to master that position and throwing the deep ball and learn from other guys.  You know, it's still an oncoming thing, but it's just one of the gifts that I'm happy to have.   
 Q.  What are the nuances of throwing the deep ball?  What are some of the things that Coach Perry drilled into you back then?  
DESHAUN WATSON: You know, just really placing the ball, and it starts with your feet and eyes.  You know, whenever you throw the ball you don't take your eyes where the ball is, you take the ball where your eyes are.  It's kind of hard to explain.  It's really better if I actually show you.  But that's probably --   
 Q.  Can you talk about the importance of ball security in this football game?  
DESHAUN WATSON: I mean, yeah, it's hard to win a game if you don't take care of the ball.  Last year we took care of the ball, and I don't think they did.  I can't really remember.  But that was probably the biggest difference in the game.  I mean, every game, whoever has the ball most, especially in this game, is going to probably come out on top.  We want to control that and make sure that we have every opportunity we have to make points.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT