AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 21, 2020
Jannik Sinner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. SINNER/M. Purcell
7-6, 6-2, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Does getting a first Grand Slam win, a main draw win, feel like a big step for you?
JANNIK SINNER: I mean, it was not easy for me first match, first time in Australia. I have been practicing quite well before, so yesterday I started the match a little bit tight, which sometimes is normal. I find a solution, so I'm very happy.
Q. Was it difficult at all having the match held over from last night? Did you have to think about it a lot?
JANNIK SINNER: I mean, I was up in the score, so it was a little bit easier for me. Obviously I wanted to finish yesterday. We waited here till 8:00 p.m., so it's been a long day yesterday for me, for every player.
But, you know, it can be difficult. I tried to go on court with a good mentality, and I started well. Yeah, that was the key.
Q. Federer was in here yesterday, and he said about you that he thinks that your forehand and backhand speed of shot is the same. He said that's very special. Is that something that you work on? Is that something you're conscious about at all?
JANNIK SINNER: Yeah, I heard about it, that he said that.
Yes, we are working on every shot. Because I'm young, forehand and backhand are quite solid. The shot is getting better and better, which is our goal.
And of course there will be matches where maybe you cannot feel the shot so you have to maybe slow down a little bit, trying to find another solution. You cannot play the whole match with the same speed. You have to change a little bit the ball some heights, which I have to learn. I have to learn everything.
But what he said is, I mean, it's nice for me. But, you know, we still have to work.
Q. Do you have any thoughts about your second-round match? Do you know anything about Fucsovics very much?
JANNIK SINNER: I still have to study a little bit. I don't know so much about him. I think Riccardo knows a little bit better him, so maybe he can give me some good tips for tomorrow and I will see.
Q. Are there any specific expectations for this year or for this season?
JANNIK SINNER: I mean, I just try to play week after week better. That's my goal.
And then after, obviously if I play better, the ranking goes -- it will be better, for sure.
But, you know, I'm not thinking so much about the ranking. We are just trying to make match after match good, trying to play better, and then we will -- I mean, then we will see. I don't want to take rush about this.
Q. Does Riccardo tell you stories about Ljubicic and Raonic and Gasquet, all the players he's been working with?
JANNIK SINNER: Sometimes, yes, it can help me. I mean, he passed to Ivan, he had Djokovic a little bit, talking a little bit about him sometimes.
I mean, it can help me, because I hope that I can have many informations about other players, how they passed maybe difficult moments which we will have, or which I will have, for sure. And, you know, just to knowing every player has a different personality, and hopefully I can find mine as soon as possible.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT