INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA
September 18, 2020
Jannik Sinner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  G. DIMITROV/J. Sinner
 4-6, 6-4, 6-4
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. Tough loss.  What I'm wondering is a year ago I saw you playing at a challenger in Lexington, Kentucky.  Now here you are beating Tsitsipas and taking Dimitrov to three sets.  I'm wondering, what has changed for you in the last year?  Is it more physical, technical, or mental?
 JANNIK SINNER:   I think obviously in one year you can do a lot of things.  Obviously growing in general, I think that's the biggest one.  I still have to grow a lot, because like today it's a tough loss obviously.  I hope I can take out as many positive things as possible.
 I think some points I have been a little bit unfortunate.  At the end of the day it's just important to grow, to improve, to trying obviously your best day after day in practice and then trying to play what you're doing in practice on court in matches.
 I think physically I still have to grow much more.  Tennis, it's getting better.  Obviously if you play day after day you can just improve.
 I think in one year playing every day, it's my pleasure, and then obviously you can just improve in one year.
 Q. For years we have been talking about who will take over after the big three are gone.  Does the fact that Thiem and Zverev were in the final at the US Open give greater hope to players like you and Lorenzo and other teenagers coming up?
 JANNIK SINNER:   You know, everyone is coming in a different way up.  It's not that if they play finals or we have a new Grand Slam champion something change on my side.
 It's very nice to see it's finally a new one winning Grand Slam.  You know, I have watched the final and has been tough for both.  You know, first of all, mentally.
 Yeah, it's great for our sport having new people coming, and I think it's becoming time now.  There is going to be some point where the big three are going away at some point.  I don't know how many years.  But, you know, after are coming new ones, and I think that's even good for sport.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT