MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAú
March 31, 2021
Jannik Sinner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  J. SINNER/A. Bublik
 7-6, 6-4
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. As you were walking off the court and shaking hands with Alex, he shared some thoughts with you.  Could you share with us what he said and what your reaction was to that?
 JANNIK SINNER:   Yeah, he said that I am not human (smiling).  Yeah, and obviously, you know, playing against him is never easy.  I had a tough one in Dubai as well.  Managed somehow to win there.
 Today I was break down.  I think the tiebreak, at some point I played well, two good points from 5-4 down.  But he was serving and, you know, I managed to win that.
 Obviously when he says that, you are a bit surprised, obviously but, you know, I think I played good at important points today.  Yeah, that's it.
 Q. Alexander said a few minutes ago that you are, from the young players, you are so different.  You are strong physically and mentally.  You have different things regarding other players.  What do you think about Alexander said about all these good things about you?
 JANNIK SINNER:   Well, it's obviously pleasure, you know, hearing that, first of all, but, you know, I'm 19, I still have to improve everything.  You know, some matches you play good; some matches you maybe make some mistakes.
 Yeah, for me, the most important thing is to stay there every point, trying your best every match and every practice session.  And then something is coming for sure.
 But as I said, you know, still with 19, you know, you can only improve.  For sure maybe in next year I'm another player and one year after I'm another player once more.  So I'm going to change for sure something.  And, yeah.
 Q. I want to know if you think that this is your best week in the tour?  Because you reach the semifinals in the tournament, and you have great tennis in this week.
 JANNIK SINNER:   Well, it's tough to say, you know, if something or some week is the best week I have had because, yeah, maybe it can be but maybe not.  It depends how it goes.
 Obviously I'm very happy being in the semifinal, but, you know, after tomorrow I have a tough match once more.  It's not easy, for sure.
 Saying "best week" I think is difficult.  If somebody ask me what has been your best week, it's tough to answer.  We will see at the end of the week (smiling).  Then we see.
 Q. I notice in a lot of the toughest points of this match or the biggest moments, seems like you came up with your best tennis and you were able to hit through the court well and just go for shots without missing.  Where do you go in your mind in those moments to stay composed and to hit I think your best shots instead of, you know, breaking under pressure?
 JANNIK SINNER:   Having a great game plan, you know, going with the right decisions on court with the right things, and, you know, being I'm able to do them is obviously the best you can do.
 You know, to play the best tennis on important points, it's not starting from them but it's also the things what you are doing maybe in the beginning of the set.  We changed a little bit of mindset in that sense.  Especially these two weeks now in Dubai and here, I have more clear what I have to do.  Yeah, it's working quite well.
 Q. You're the youngest Italian in the Masters 1000 semifinals.  When I hear you talk, you're always so down-to-earth.  What or who helps you to be like this, so focused and concentrated on just your goals?
 JANNIK SINNER:   You know, obviously my family are very calm persons.  Obviously when I came to Riccardo Piatti when I was 13 1/2, it's all about work in progress.  So, you know, if you win matches or if you lose matches, you know, at the end of the day you always have to improve.
 As I said before, especially when you're 19 and all the rest, honestly I am focused about, yeah, improving my tennis, my physical.  Especially physically I have to improve very, very much.  Mentally, as well.
 I'm just looking forward to getting better day after day and, yeah, that's for me the most important thing.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT