GREAT OCEAN ROAD OPEN
February 5, 2021
Jannik Sinner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  J. SINNER/M. Kecmanovic
 7-6, 6-4
 THE MODERATOR:   A long day at the tennis.  When was the last time you played and won two matches in the same day?
 JANNIK SINNER:   I don't remember, honestly.  I think it was junior maybe?  But maybe future one time.  I think maybe in qualifying in future, it happens sometimes that you play twice in one day.
 Yeah, it was back in the days (smiling).
 Q. This ATP stuff seems to be coming pretty easily to you.  How much confidence did you get out of Sofia last year and some of the results against big names?
 JANNIK SINNER:   I mean, obviously a little bit of confidence can give you some results from last year.  But, you know, every tournament is different.  Every day of match is different, you know.  Sometimes you feel great.  Sometimes you feel tired.  Sometimes you have pain somewhere.
 So every day is different.  Especially today was different, you know, playing two matches in one day.  It's a long day obviously.
 So, you know, I'm happy that I got through.
 Q. How quickly have you had to readjust your expectations, knowing you've jumped into the top 40 so quickly, beaten top 10 players?  Are you now feeling you're competing on a weekly basis to win finals?  Is that where you're at now?
 JANNIK SINNER:   Yeah, you know, knowing myself a little bit better as a player, as a person, as, you know, every match has difficult times, trying to get through them and trying to search your level.  You know, important matches are here to, especially for younger players, to see where your level is and what you have to work on.
 You know, I think last year I have done quite well.  So, you know, I'm looking forward to play in important matches against important players.  So, you know, I'm feeling improved, trying to improve every day, waking up with this mentality, and then you see where you can go.
 Q. I know you've obviously had a really busy day, but have you had a chance to look at your draw for the Australian Open, first up pretty exciting matchup?
 JANNIK SINNER:   Yeah, they told me.  Is going to be an exciting match, difficult match for me.  And, yeah, I'm looking forward.
 Q. Where do you see Denis in that group of the young guns coming through?  People see you as part of that too.  Who are some of the other guys who you really like?
 JANNIK SINNER:   There are many.  Kecmanovic, Felix, Alcaraz is coming.  So, so many, you know, I don't want to say names and then forget someone, you know.  There are many.
 And I think that's good for tennis, good for the sport, seeing new people coming, new people staying like Denis is there already for a few years.  Tsitsipas is there, Medvedev, Rublev.  It's good for tennis to see new players.
 Q. Are you ready for that expectation that's already there this is going to be the group that can potentially take over from the monopoly at the top of tennis, with the Nadals and the Federers and these guys?
 JANNIK SINNER:   You know, having big names like Novak, Roger, and then Rafa takes time, you know.  It's not if you make one season well you're there and then after you're not.
 I think a big group is Thiem, Medvedev, Rublev now is coming, as well.  Many, many players.  I think for the younger generation, it still takes a little bit of time, but I think Thiem is there, Medvedev, Tsitsipas, many players.
 So it's going to be interesting.
 Q. Even though you have made this great jump in the rankings, I would say it's still all very new to you.  Who has given you the biggest piece, that you think, has given you the biggest piece of advice?  What was that?  And how have you changed in the last year?
 JANNIK SINNER:   Well, for me, after winning the NextGen Finals, I have been a bit in trouble.  I came here trying to win matches, which was maybe the wrong mentality.  I think I have improved quite a lot, especially in the last year.
 So, you know, I'm always there to improve day after day, and I think that's the most important thing.  Then I think I have a great team behind me, a lot of experience.  Riccardo, my physio Zimaglia, my fitness coach Dalibor Sirola.  I think everyone is doing a great job with me.  I'm there day after day to improve.
 I think that's the biggest advice, you know.  I think obviously playing important matches like with Rafa in Roland Garros or even my first ATP final with Pospisil, I don't think there is only one, there are many together, and you have to be focused on what you can get out of these important moments.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT