SAN DIEGO STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 15, 2018
John Baron II
Kyahva Tezino
Kyree Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








SDSU - 28
ASU - 21
Q. Can you each talk about how it looked like you had the game well in hand and then you finish like that.  What are the emotions you're going through.
KYAHVA TEZINO: Well, that right there, everyone's kind of scared at that moment.  I mean we all were scared, I mean, but we just persevered, just was saying that we was just going to make this stop because our whole team deserved it.  Throughout all the six months we worked we fought for moments like this and we just all wanted it and as you can tell we wanted it.
Q. What were you thinking Kyree there at the end?
KYREE WOODS: Just adversity.  Coaches preach it every week that we're going to have some adversity, but we just going to have to pull through and tonight we pulled through major.  And just props to Agnew and the offense giving us a chance to go out there and play ball and just props to everybody on the defense, just holding it down, because adversity hit and we finished strong.
Q. Kyree talk me through that last play.  I think that was you that knocked down the ball at the end.
KYREE WOODS: It was Parker Baldwin.
Q. What was going through your mind just like seeing you guys run through the field celebrating that?
KYREE WOODS: It was a great feeling.  The whole time I was thinking, just don't let him catch the ball and they didn't and so we won and just a great feeling.  No matter how you get the W, it's always worth it.  So we got it and that's all that matters.
Q. What was the feeling when you hear it's incomplete?
KYREE WOODS: Best feeling in the world.  Best feeling.
Q. Did you have any idea that -- were you guys talking about you thought it might be?
KYREE WOODS: No.  We were just getting ready to play another set of chains and then when the call got in, just joy and just one more play.
Q. I wanted to ask you about the defensive stand late in the second quarter.  That seemed to kind of turn things your way.  Defensively you guys were giving up some yardage before that.  Thoughts about kind of how that fired you guys up to make that play?
KYAHVA TEZINO: Yeah, he was it was a big momentum swing.  I mean we went into half, we switched some things up obviously because they was driving on us real quick, they was going hurry up offense, we just switched it up half, we made adjustments and we made it happen.  That fourth down, that just, that was kind of like a statement to our defense on how we is as a football team.
Q. And then the second half they don't get a first down until three minutes are left in the game essentially.  I think four three and outs.  What were you guys doing that kind of changed things schematically or how you were playing?
KYAHVA TEZINO: We were running the same calls, I mean it was just all of our attitudes on that field.  We all came into half and said we're going to go out here and win this game because our offense deserved it.  They were up there putting up points.  Ryan Agnew was doing an amazing job, what we all expected, so we just all had to go out there and win for each other because each one of us is like counting on us to win, so.
Q. John, for a while there it looked like those field goals you had were going to be the difference in the game.  What goes through your mind on the first one, the career long one?  Do you know you have that range or what do you talk to the coaches about?
JOHN BARON II: Coach Long asked me how I felt about it and I said, let's do it.  And we went out there and you don't really think a lot when you're out there, you try not to.  So not a lot was going through my mind, just make the kick and I'm glad I did.  Glad I helped out the team.
Q. What's the longest one you tried from that side of the field going in warm ups today?
JOHN BARON II: In warm ups today?  57 I believe was what I ended at.  But it had a lot on it.  So I was like, I told coach, we're good from 60.  I mean, it was a joke but I mean he kind of took it seriously, I guess.
Q. To reach that milestone it ties Donnie for the second longest in history, it kind of just adds to what you've already been doing.  Kind of talk about what it's meant to you to succeed as much as you have.
JOHN BARON II: I mean, when I go out there to play, all I want to do is help the team.  I want to win, so at the end of the day, I mean, I, we all depend on each other.  I mean, we depend on the offense and the defense to do their job and they depend on me to do mine.  So that's all I'm really worried about is just helping out the team and I'm glad I can.
Q. What do you attribute specifically to being able to get so much more power behind your kick?  Because in years past you've been lights out within 50 yards, but after 50 yards you've been a little bit iffy, you haven't been iffy this year, you're showing that you can hit from anywhere.
JOHN BARON II: I've only had two attempts from 50 before this year and I missed one, so that's why it's iffy.  But I mean this year obviously coaches are putting a lot more trust in me and they're letting me reach my full potential and try to help the team as much as I can, so in games like this, it really works out.
Q. So is this something you've always been capable of?
JOHN BARON II: Yeah.
Q. To that question, John, have you lengthened kicks quite a bit this year like in practice and stuff?  I mean, are you feeling more comfortable at that distance?
JOHN BARON II: Yeah, the whole off season I was really just working on longer field goals, trying to become more accurate on longer field goals and during spring I kind of did the same thing that I've been doing through other springs, but this year the opportunities just came sooner, I guess.
Q. Kyree, talk about the secondary's performance.  Last week Coach Long said, he was saying that it was okay last week, so how would you rate this week's performance?
KYREE WOODS: We're getting there.  I would say it's a little bit better steps from last week, we just got to make more plays out there, obviously eliminate the deep play, but that's what everybody, we're all in this together and we're going to work together, get back to the drawing board.  But I'm excited this season because I feel like we're slowly getting there, we're progressing every week, so it's only a matter of time where we're just lights out.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT