US OPEN
August 29, 1997
Mark Woodforde
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Mark, you're working very hard to shed the title "doubles specialist." Can
you describe the improvement in your singles play, and have you ever had as big a win
against as highly ranked an opponent?

MARK WOODFORDE: Well, I've beaten the No. 1 player in the world before, and the No. 2.
Not that I want to brag sitting up here. Throughout my career, I've beaten most of the top
players. So, you know, it's a great win, especially at this stage. I felt like I had one
of the toughest draws out of -- definitely out of all the Australians. You know, to beat
someone like Kafelnikov who had been playing quite well coming into the tournament, you
know, does me a lot of good, keeps me alive; helped get me into the Grand Slam Cup. A lot
of pluses coming out of not only today's match, but the first round as well.

Q. Are you playing the best singles of your career, coming off a very good tournament
in Indianapolis, and are you playing at the Open so far? 

MARK WOODFORDE: I'm hopefully heading towards that. I just feel like I'm still I am
improving as a tennis player. I don't understand why at my age, even years to come, that I
can't keep improving, as long as I stay healthy, and as long as my mental approach to the
game, wanting to work, is still there. And accept that there are going to be some highs
and lows because of my age, maybe my physical recovery in some matches might not be as
easy as if I were in my mid 20s or early 20s. But, yeah, I've been playing great ever
since Wimbledon. Not just since Wimbledon. I had a bad start to the year; I got it going.
I've just carried on from there. I think after Wimbledon finished, I've been serving very
well in all the tournaments that I've played. For someone like me who likes to finish the
points up at net, it's a hell of a bonus to be serving as big as -- not quite as big as
Philippoussis and Rafter, but I'd like to be able to do that, but I'm serving very well,
getting a lot of free points and setting up points for me to finish up at net. It's
working out for me.

Q. Why has your service improved?

MARK WOODFORDE: You know, my coach just came and hit me on the head and said,
"Serve well." It's all the practice that I've put into it. I came away from
Wimbledon very disappointed with my results in the singles. I felt like I could have gone
further. Throughout every match I played in the singles, I served quite, quite poorly. For
a lefty, when you've got someone like Tony Roche as the Davis Cup coach, telling you that
you can serve better and you can be a better player, you know, it sort of inspires me a
little bit. It's not just Roche, it's my coach, who is left-handed as well. I have played
matches here and there where I've served very well and won them. I just wanted it to be
continuous, rather than just dotted throughout the year. I worked very hard after
Wimbledon in serving a lot. You know, I've really got it into a nice rhythm at the moment.
It's going well. Like I said, it's getting me some free points, allowing me to -- I mean,
I've played two of the best returners in the game, perhaps: Byron Black is a great
returner; Yevgeny, we all know how well he returns the ball. I've been able to control
that so far. My next one, I'm probably going to play the best returner ever. I'm going to
have to serve, you know, better again. It's a big plus.

Q. What is your record like against Agassi?

MARK WOODFORDE: You know, I think we've played about four or five times. The first few
times, I was always shaking in my sand shoes because I just didn't think I was ever good
enough to beat the guy. I was probably almost shaking hands before the match began. I
managed to beat him last year at the Grand Slam Cup and then two weeks ago at
Indianapolis. For me, that was a tremendous buzz to beat him back then, two weeks ago.
It's another scalp that I can add. You know, if he's probably playing the best that we
know he can play, then I would say my chances are remote. But I don't think all of a
sudden he's going to be coming out and playing his best ever. You know, it's a chance for
me to catch him while he's still not on the ball, so to speak. I feel like I've got a good
chance. But it's going to be tough because he doesn't want to lose to me three times in a
row. He's going to have a hell of a support crowd out there. I just feel like -- I'm not
just going to be playing Andre, I'm going to be playing a whole lot of other people.

Q. Not to take anything away from a great victory, but this is a guy who many think
should be either No. 2 or challenging for No. 1. He just seems to be up-and-down. What do
you think is lacking in his game?

MARK WOODFORDE: It's hard to say. I think while he should be able to serve and volley a
little bit more, I feel if I sort of could say a few things to him, it would be to try and
attack a little bit more and try and solidify his net game. He tries it. He tried a few
things out there today to try and upset my rhythm. You know, he was staying back, hitting,
then he tried to hit them very high, use the wind, then he tried hitting and coming in. I
was playing well enough to have an answer for most of what he tried today. But, you know,
I think he just got outplayed in those conditions, in the wind, and by someone who wasn't
afraid to win, get a big upset win.

Q. Do you think he's sometimes a little timid out there? In the last game, for example,
he tossed up a lob which looked like he might have tried a passing shot?

MARK WOODFORDE: I'm such an imposing figure up at net, it's hard to get by me
(laughter).

Q. Do you think he gets a little timid at times?

MARK WOODFORDE: Yeah. But I think, you know, that's just normal. Everyone gets nervous
and has trouble, you know, finishing. The guy, he's looking at two sets to love down. He
makes one bad shot and the match is finished in the tiebreaker. You know, I mean, you've
got to have some nerves out there. He's not cold, super human in that respect. I think he
just showed his natural emotion out there at that time. It was fortunate for me that I was
up at the better end and was able to take advantage of it. But I think sometimes he gets
distracted by everything that goes on. Maybe if he just sort of focused a little bit more
on what's happening on the court, you know, he might have got through today. Who knows.

Q. Were you expecting a tougher match going into today?

MARK WOODFORDE: You know, whenever you're playing against any player these days,
especially for me, I'm always expecting a tough match. You know, I knew my work was going
to be -- it was going to be a tough day at the office. But then again, I've been playing
very well. I just felt like I had a good chance. I've beaten him before, so it's not like
this is I humongous, that the guy should be thrown out of the US because he's lost to Mark
Woodforde. I mean, I have beaten him before. That worked well for me. I just believe that
I could beat the guy. You know, I think if you're frightened, then perhaps I would have
been showing a little more, my nerves might have come through a little bit more had I not
believed in myself. It was the other way around. 

Q. Who was No. 1 at the time you beat them and who was No. 2?

MARK WOODFORDE: Edberg, Courier was No. 2 when I beat him. I don't know. Look back in
the books. I've played long enough.

Q. Mark, we saw a lot of the great Australian players from the past here Monday night,
Laver, Newcombe. For you and the current players, what does that generation of players
mean?

MARK WOODFORDE: It means a whole lot. I commented to my girlfriend, "Look at all
these players, they're all Australians. Isn't that fantastic?" It would have been
nice to have been here, but of course I had some work to do the following day, so I was
only able to watch it. I was very, very proud. I also said, "It would be nice if at
some stage, doesn't matter when, if I could be almost like honored in that way. For me, it
was just really terrific to watch those guys come out. They're all fantastic guys and
women as well, those Australians that came out. They're great people. Hopefully, I can be
remembered as being a nice person, nice player, great player, and be honored in a similar
way. Got to get that Grand Slam title in the singles.

Q. Mark, do you think too many players play only singles and they're missing something?
Has doubles really helped you maximize your play as a singles player as well?

MARK WOODFORDE: Definitely. Definitely. You know, I think if Yevgeny sticks it out and
plays -- someone like Yevgeny, if he continues to play a few more doubles matches, I think
he would be able to step it up in a singles match where he can serve and volley a whole
lot more. I've certainly -- I'm certainly a better player for playing singles and doubles.
I believe someone like Agassi, if he played more doubles, he would be more of a complete
singles player and be willing to come into net more, try to serve, volley a little bit
more. Look at McEnroe and Edberg, great players of No. 1 singles and No. 1 doubles ranking
at the same time. I think they're the only two that maybe have done that of recent time. I
wish there were more players that did that, yeah.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT