COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
December 4, 1996
Mark Woodforde
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Mark, I know some of us, and certainly some of your Australian colleagues saw the
draw, they said, "Lucky Mark, the way Andre has been playing lately, that will put
him through." Is that your reaction?

MARK WOODFORDE: I don't know --

Q. Did that give you encouragement that he hasn't been playing well?

MARK WOODFORDE: Yeah. It wasn't my initial reaction. I think my initial reaction was
something that I really shouldn't say up here. Then, you know, I sort of thought about it
that he hasn't been playing well, the amount of matches he's played through this bad
period, you know, has just been so minor, just a small amount, two matches or something
since August, something incredible like that. Yeah, I mean, you know, I was giving myself
a shot going out there. Although, it's not like I was going out thinking, "Yeah, I'm
going to beat this guy," et cetera, et cetera. He's one guy that I haven't beaten
before. My last result against him, you know, wasn't the best one. But, you know, then
again, you're right, I had to try and stay positive and, you know, let him make the
errors. I think that's what he's been doing when he's been losing matches - hitting a lot
of balls out very quickly, et cetera. You know, I think my game plan today was just to try
to keep the ball in as much as I could and let him make the errors, which he did.

Q. How much different a player is he today than when he beat you quite handsomely last
time?

MARK WOODFORDE: Obviously, there's a difference. For me to go from not winning a game
to beating him, I mean, it was two years ago. I must say, when I was warming up for that
match, I thought I was, you know -- back then I thought I had a very good chance of
beating him. He just came out and played outstanding. I don't think I've been dealt as
severe a loss as that particular time. You know, I just wouldn't want to be in his shoes,
I don't think, knowing that he hasn't played too many matches and people expect a lot from
him constantly. You know, he's still a great player. I just think maybe, you know, it's
taken its toll on him since maybe the US Open or something. I'm not sure. I can't speak
for him. Two weeks ago, coming over here, if he's been sick, he's gone back home to try to
recover; then he's come back over here. It's a hell of a lot of travel to be doing.

Q. (Inaudible)

MARK WOODFORDE: He did stay over?

Q. I think so.

MARK WOODFORDE: I didn't know that one. I would expect him to go back to the US with
two weeks in between. I just think there are going to be times when he's going to put in a
very lethargic match. I guess I was lucky that I've drawn him in the very last tournament
he's supposed to play this year, when I'm sure he's maybe thinking of trying to get a good
start for next year.

Q. Looking ahead to next year, what on earth is there left for you and the other Woody
to do?

MARK WOODFORDE: Do a lot better in singles. This year has been quite incredible for
both of us as far as our singles. We've reached our highest rankings. I think next year a
goal for me is to better No. 19 and Todd mid-20s. I don't know if we can really speak up
and say that we're going to win or we're going to try and win 12 doubles tournaments like
we did this year. That's been, I mean -- I think it would be wrong for us to say we're
going to try to win 12 tournaments again. Obviously, winning the French Open is the main
goal for us. I mean, there's going to be a heck of a lot of pressure on us through that
period, from French Open to Wimbledon, trying to secure a fifth Wimbledon title, and the
Australian I think is high up on our list. We haven't won that for about four years. I
just hope we're not labeled as not as good as what we were this year if we don't win, you
know, as many tournaments. I think that's going to be -- I mean, we can't worry about that
too much. Maybe plead to you guys. We're still going to be a great team if we don't win 12
tournaments. Doesn't necessarily mean we're not as good as we have been this year. I don't
know if we can do the same.

Q. Andre was in here just now talking about motivation, saying he can really only get
motivated at the moment for the Grand Slams and things like the Olympics. You just don't
have to get motivated for the Grand Slam singles, but you get motivated for the doubles as
well.

MARK WOODFORDE: Uh-huh.

Q. How hard do you find it going to a run-of-the-mill tournament?

MARK WOODFORDE: I mean, I can sympathize with him in that respect. I mean, it is hard
to continually get up for every tournament that you play. Maybe for me, because I'm one of
the older guys, I'm 31, I've played a lot of the major tournaments. But, I think you just
really set yourself goals. For me, I'm not a No. 1 singles player in the world, so I don't
know what it's like. I'm sure that he struggles to set different goals for him. I
definitely think once he gets back into shape and starts hitting the ball a lot smoother
than what he has been, can maybe put up with some losses to different players, then he's
going to be back to fighting No. 1 position with Sampras and the other guys.

Q. The pressures are more now, but up till about 10 or 15 years ago, nearly all the top
singles players also played doubles. Do you think when someone is going through a spell
like the spell that Andre is going through now, it might help him to get his confidence
back if he played doubles?

MARK WOODFORDE: I'd like to be able to pull him aside and say, "How about playing
a game of doubles someday?" I think that might have a positive effect on him if he
can stick around. If he hasn't had a great week in singles, doubles for a guy like him, I
think playing doubles will certainly help his game. It will sky rocket up. Obviously when
he comes up to net, it's not one of his main strengths or anything. If he learns to play
doubles a little bit better, it's going to have a great effect on his singles. It's just a
matter of whether he wants to put in the time to stick around at some of the tournaments.

Q. Mark, when you saw your draw, did you think to yourself, "I've got Andre
Agassi, this is a good chance?" In a way, would you rather have played a superstar
like him rather than a Mikael Tillstrom who might have been up for this, one of the more
journeymen-type players who this would mean a lot to?

MARK WOODFORDE: You know, either way, if I played someone like Tillstrom or some of the
other guys that aren't seeded, Stolts, for instance, I still would have gone in pretty
happy with the draw because I feel I've been playing well towards the latter part of this
year. The court suits me. Playing some of the top guys, I guess in the back of my mind,
all of our minds, maybe they're not going to turn up as fresh as perhaps someone like
myself who maybe had a week or two off. Maybe they just -- maybe the money doesn't
motivate them, whatever. They've got nothing to prove by playing out the whole week. For
me maybe at the beginning, it was like it's not a great draw for me to play Agassi, but
it's turned out better for me now.

Q. Mark, can you talk about your next match, look ahead to Ivanisevic?

MARK WOODFORDE: Well, one of the positive effects of playing -- beating Agassi, you
know, hopefully the opponents get not as tough. Ivanisevic is a great server. On this
court, he's going to be so tough out there. I'm not frightened of playing him at all. I've
beaten him a couple of times, I think, on grass courts and he's beaten me obviously a few
times as well. I think Australians, maybe we -- we are playing someone like Goran, we have
a game that can probably annoy him. I've got to obviously serve a bit better and stay --
not get too bothered by the points going too fast. I'm looking forward to going out and
playing Goran.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT