GREAT AMERICAN INSURANCE ATP CHAMPIONSHIP
August 8, 1996
Mark Woodforde
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. You had a match here a few years ago where Sampras came back and won (Inaudible.)
Did you remember that before today's match?

MARK WOODFORDE: Yeah, of course I remember that. When you have a chance to beat the No.
1 player in the world, you always remember something like that, but it wasn't foremost in
my mind going into the match. Probably the two more recent matches we played this year in
Memphis and Tokyo which he won in two sets, but each time I felt like I was, you know,
getting closer and, you know, had chances to win. It is just that I think the first one I
didn't believe myself that I could beat the No. 1 player in the world and the second time,
you know, I just -- I had my chances and I think I even had set point and just didn't play
the right shot at the right time, so, you know, I went in tonight thinking I could beat
the guy and, you know, just came up short, a little bit unlucky, with the matchpoint and
-- yeah, that is the end of the tournament for me --

MARK WOODFORDE: -- as far as singles goes.

Q. Mark, you didn't believe you could beat the No. 1,, beating Sampras one-on-one,
because you beat Courier when he was No. 1?

MARK WOODFORDE: Beating Sampras. You know, I have no problem thinking that I can beat,
you know, quite a few of the players when I weigh out my game. But I think probably at the
last couple of years or maybe even longer that I had trouble beating Sampras because I
didn't feel like I measured up well; that my strengths didn't go into his weaknesses and
his strengths outweighed mine and more or less the same with Agassi. But, you know, I
think knowing that I reached matchpoint against him once before and the two matches that I
played previous to this one this year really helped me believe that, you know, I am still
a good year, and can, you know, tough it out with the best guys. He is the No. 1 player,
so you know -- it is Sampras; not the No. 1 tag.

Q. What specifically do you think you were doing tonight that you were able to
(inaudible)?

MARK WOODFORDE: Well, I think he probably has trouble with lefthanders. I think over
his career he has trouble returning the serve and, you know, that is an area where I have
tried to improve big time this year and as far as getting some free points, I think I
served a few aces tonight and, you know, before I think I used to just panic against him.
If he returned my serve and you know he'd breeze through his service games, I felt a lot
of pressure on me that I had to play extraordinarily way and way above what my standard
could be or what is, and I just thought it would be over and done with within the first 15
minutes. But I think I have just learned that, you know, understood that I am a good
player. That I maybe one of the older players, but I am maybe one of the craftiest and I
have repertoire of strokes that could annoy a lot of players. And I think my backhand
annoys the crap out of him, and some of the shots come into my forehand which opens up the
court for me which I didn't think I hit that well tonight, but it was tough conditions out
there. I think he suffered a little bit. And I just make him play. I am not going to, you
know-- I think before I just, like I said, just sort of, more or less, gave up after --
mentally it was just a melt down. I think now I try and stand up to him; that if he hits a
great shot, well, then I am looking down his throat again saying, you know, try again,
buddy. And, you know, obviously he can do it because he is the No. 1 player. That is why
he is there, but, you know, got to take pride from a match like that tonight.

Q. What was your specific thought in your mind after the matchpoint?

MARK WOODFORDE: I was just wondering how -- if he knew what he was doing with the
forehand that he hit because it sort of came out of -- it seemed to come out of, you know,
the throat of the racket and I don't know if he necessarily meant to hit it that hard and
that close to the line, you know, that is why I struggled to get over there at that stage
because it took me by surprise totally, so I just was trying to work my way to another
matchpoint and -- but he kept, you know, he kept coming up with the serves and I think
that was the difference in the end tonight was, you know, serving on his behalf; that he
was able to get close enough to the lines and with a lot more velocity than what I was
able to achieve. In the tiebreaker I only got one first serve in and I think and he missed
only one. So, you know, when it gets down to that -- to that stage after playing for
nearly three hours, you know, a weapon like that is going to come out on top most times.

Q. Line calls were very close, questionable. In the long run, did they affect you at
all?

MARK WOODFORDE: No. I don't think -- it didn't really affect me. I mean, I was
surprised - probably the one that affected me most, if it affected me, was at 4-2, 15-All.
I felt like I clipped the line with a volley, which was called very quickly and all too
hastily in my book. You know that would have given me 30-15 and I think I would have felt,
you know-- it, I think, would have changed the whole match being 30-15 up trying to go up
5-2, rather than 15-30 down and it changed a little bit there, but, you know, I should
have made the volley. But the other one, you know, it was like half a foot out, at least,
and it was the same linesman and so think Dana, the central umpire moved him very quickly
once I asked him to, yeah, but I think in a match like that you are going to come down to,
you know, lucky shot, a net cord, or a which he hit, or, you know, bad line call. I have
been involved in many of them and that is what happens, but it makes it exciting and that
is what makes a lot of people come back and watch.

Q. Anything hindsight, do you wish you had done anything differently, maybe on critical
points -- (Inaudible.)

MARK WOODFORDE: Yeah, probably. I was just speaking to my coach and my trainer that if
probably at 5-All in the second set after I had broken him that if I -- winning the first
point is such a big psychological advantage, you know, when you are playing against these
guys and I did win that first point and again at Love-15, it is a hell of a lot of
pressure on you and I think on 4-2 I did win the first point. I was Love-15 down or maybe
even Love-30 down as well, -- no, 15-All because I missed the volley to go up 30-15 --
those, I just really wished that I could have maybe taken the advantage and if I missed my
first serve, serve volleyed the second one, so I have got to learn from that when I get
into that situation out there scrambling into the match against the top guys, you have got
to take your chances because I have got one of the better volleys in the game and I should
be able to do that. I do it often enough in doubles.

Q. Are you at all discouraged (Inaudible.)

MARK WOODFORDE: No, I mean, that is the beauty of the game as well is that you can play
week-in and week-out. There are two more tournaments after here and the U.S. Open and
there is another two, three months of tournaments to play. Even though I am 0 and 6 or
whatever it is, 0 and 7, 0 and 8, then, you know, you are always going to come up against
him again and I am always -- I sort of always believed in my career that you keep
searching for ways to win and eventually you might get there, hopefully. I mean, I have
been close to him twice.

Q. Do you look at this as an opportunity missed or if you look at it as, I was as close
as I could be and maybe next time?

MARK WOODFORDE: I think -- I think I should have beaten him. I wasn't I -- I was happy
with the way that I played -- I served, but I wasn't happy with the way that I really, you
know, hit my groundstrokes tonight, so, you know, I feel like I could play a lot better.
He probably makes you feel like that sometimes. He just hits down those colossal serves
and you have a tough time getting them back. I felt like once I got in the point that I
was winning those points. For me, it just comes down to he has got too big a serve from
what I have got and that is what won him the watch, so if I can get him that often enough,
that I should be able to beat him.

Q. Do you kind of hope that he was having an offday serving when you play him?

MARK WOODFORDE: No, I have got to raise my standards is the way I look at it. I have
got to get better. I still feel like I am improving; even at my age and I still enjoy the
game very much and that is what keeps my heart beating and the will to turn up and playing
for the 9th time and giving it a good shot at beating him.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT