XXVI OLYMPIC GAMES
July 26, 1996
Todd Woodbridge
Mark Woodforde
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. First of all, how do you feel? 
 
TODD WOODBRIDGE:   Tough matchpoint there. 
 
MARK WOODFORDE:   Yeah, initially I thought it was out when it landed, but Todd had a better view.  He was sort of, more or less, looking straight down that line.  It would have been nice to have finished off there.  That would have made the score look a little bit more comfortable.  But, you know, we won, and we expected a tough match from those guys.  That is what we received and we are on our way. 
 

Q. I know you had a few distractions overnight.  Did that affect you at all?
 
MARK WOODFORDE:   I had a heavy night, yeah.  
 
TODD WOODBRIDGE:  Not really.  It was a couple of nights ago, so, you know, I was able to just try and concentrate on today and got through today.  Worst part is over.  Now it is time to be left alone to go out and concentrate on doing our job if we can.  
 

Q. I mean, obviously, I don't want to dwell on it, but has it -- I know you are in the singles draw and doubles --
 
TODD WOODBRIDGE:  I am not going to make any comment  about the whole thing. 
 

Q. I am talking about the Olympics as a whole, you are here --
 
TODD WOODBRIDGE:  You can probably imagine that it would.  
 

Q. The draw gets a bit easier now for you guys?
 
TODD WOODBRIDGE:  Well, I am not -- who are we playing next?  
 
MARK WOODFORDE:   The Indians. 
 
TODD WOODBRIDGE:  They are sort of crafty.  Bhupathi Paes is a good player.  He likes this heat.  He loves this type of weather.  He always does well in India in this weather and he plays well when he is playing for his country,. 
 
TODD WOODBRIDGE:  John Fitzgerald and I, we lost to him in the last Olympics.  That is going to be a pretty difficult match.  Obviously we feel if we can concentrate and get off to a good start; play our high standards of tennis, that we should be able to get through.  
 

Q. The match today, could that work as good practice for tomorrow against Ferreira? 
 
TODD WOODBRIDGE:  I think so because it would have been difficult to come out and just come up against Wayne today.  I had a good workout, good sweat, and that is important for tomorrow for me, I think, and played well and when we are down, so that is good for your confidence also, so we are able  to come through in a tight situation. 
 

Q. Besides winning the last point, what are you going to have to do tomorrow? 
 
TODD WOODBRIDGE:  I am go to go have to play very well.  I haven't beaten Wayne for a while, quite a few years, so I am really, you know, going to go out and go for it because I really got nothing to lose and if I can get through Wayne, that sort of opens things up quite a lot.  
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT