NEWSWEEK CHAMPIONS CUP
March 11, 1996
Mark Woodforde
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Did you feel like this is the match you should have put
away in straight sets?  I mean, you had set point the first set.

 MARK WOODFORDE:  Yeah, I guess it would have been nice to have
won in straight sets, but I think winning -- playing a tough match
and losing a set, probably, you know, is more of a benefit for
me.  It is just really hard.  I mean, there is a significant difference
from practicing out in Mission Hills to here, the balls are much
lighter.  I don't think the court pace is too much different,
but it just seems very different and yet like it is only ten minutes
away.  So I think it was better for me to play a tough match and
I knew I was going to play a tough match with Javier, so it gets
me ready for the other matches, but I still would have liked to
have played a little bit better than what I did.

 Q.  Are you saying the biggest difference is the balls, you
think from Mission Hills?

 MARK WOODFORDE:  Yeah, practicing there, it doesn't seem quite
as fast or as light, and, you know, Javier was  getting, you know,
terrific topspin off of his serve.  He was kicking it out, and
I couldn't get my racket on the ball.  So once it just -- darkness
started to appear; I think that helped me.  The conditions got
a little bit heavy and I was able to control it a little bit.
 So think I was nervous.  I mean, I felt like I was more nervous
than, you know, when I play in front of my friends and family
in Adelaide.  I was a little bit jittery out there and I mean,
I really like to do well here, so you know, it is nice to just
get one on the board anyway.

 Q.  Was that because of buying a house here and everything,
people are sort of watching you here?

 MARK WOODFORDE:  Yeah, you know, having lived here for a number
of years now, you know, having, you know, of more recent times
great singles results; I guess I would like to do well here. 
It is, you know, you feel like when you are playing well that
you have got a chance if the draw is there that it can only open
and I feel like I am playing well enough at times that I can push
through into the latter stages as far as singles goes.  Then,
you know, Erin is from here and she has some family coming in,
and, you know, just people at Mission Hills, it is a great bunch
of people and they have all come out to watch me play, so, it
is a nice feeling when you have got a lot of supporters if you
play well.

 Q.  Tell me about the start of the year.  What do you think
is the reason you are playing as well as you are? 

 MARK WOODFORDE:  I think at the end of last year I sort of --
it is not that I let my singles ability, you know, disintegrate.
 I think I just lost a bit of motivation, and, you know, doubles
was -- we were playing a lot of doubles and since I just wasn't
all there and I felt like I was not doing myself justice by giving
100%, and so I made a commitment to myself and to had my coach
Ray Ruffels, and to my trainer, and I guess, in a way, to Tommy
out at Mission Hills that I didn't want to play, you know, badly.
 If I lost to someone, I wanted to lose fair and square and play,
you know, say that I played a good match.  And I think that --
don't think that was happening at the end of last year, so I really
had worked on a few areas of my game, my serve.  I think I generally
got fitter and a little bit stronger.  It paid off the months
that I had in Mission Hills and then just had some good results
leading up to the Australian Open, and like I said earlier, that,
you know, sometimes in these big events, that the top players,
everyone is so even nowadays, there is no clear-cut favorites,
and, you know, just was fortunate that Sampras got beaten by,
you know, Philippoussis and I was playing very well and beat Philippoussis
quite easy and just went on from there.  And, you know, I played
Memphis, made the quarters; played a tough match with Sampras,
and, you know, last tournament was Philly losing to Courier, so
the times that I have lost this year have all been the top 10
guys, so I feel like I am doing something  right.  You just, in
a match like that, I think probably last year I had lost the first
set and not hit too many balls in, I would have maybe found some
way to have lost that match, you know, in two sets, so, you know,
I think that is where another area -- a lot of confidence does
you wonders on the court, and was able to just, you know, shrug
off the first set loss, and, you know, really took the match --
took control of the match for the second and third set.  So it
is not one specific, I guess, area, but it is, you know, I think
knowing that I have been a good doubles player over the years
and winning some big matches and close matches, and, you know,
working on certain areas, that it is just -- I really feel, you
know, a lot better, like a better player on the court.  My game
is improving still.

 Q.  Has the singles success had any effect, positive or negative,
on the doubles?

 MARK WOODFORDE:  Probably in reality, maybe it has had a negative
effect, you know, in Australia, Todd and I won the first tournament
we played in and then lost two first rounds even though our singles
was continually improving and then Memphis wasn't -- it didn't
really, you know, happen too badly, but by the time I got to the
final, I think we were both pretty much tired and then the same
thing in Philadelphia, Todd - both he and I - played a little
bit slightly injured, and, you know, Todd was close to having
to pull out of the doubles because of  the effects of playing
so many singles -- so many matches, but we just we got through
that and we ended up winning, so we did notice the last week trying
to practice here, both of us were just so tired.  I mean, we didn't
expect to spend, you know, as much time off the court than what
we anticipated to having a good week, hitting hours upon hours
and hours and hours - it was, more or less, the first few days
were resting from playing two solid weeks from both singles and
doubles.  It is a great feeling to do well in both events, but
I think maybe if we keep going the way we are as far as our singles
are, we might just cut back a couple of tournaments on the doubles
front, but I think we just need to assess that probably, you know,
midway through the year when the French Open and Wimbledon come
around.

 Q.  Is that a sacrifice you would be happy to make if it is
called for?

 MARK WOODFORDE:  No, because we are greedy.  We are very greedy.
 It is not like we are going to stop playing doubles altogether.
 It is just a matter of picking the tournaments where we are not
-- perhaps we are not going to enter, but I think the way that
we both are, we just love -- I think we just Love playing so much
and playing together that it is going to be hard to pick which
tournaments not to play in, but, you know, I mean, I don't want
to say anything because Todd has got to decide some of it as well.


 GREG SHARKO:  Thank you.

 End of FastScripts......


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT