THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 20, 1995
Mark Woodforde
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 JOE LYNCH:  Fourth meeting with Courier tied 4-All for their
career.

 Q.  Quite a rivalry you and Jim have had?

 M. WOODFORDE:  If I could play guys like that every week, I think
it would definitely improve my game and I just-- I guess we are
getting a bit sick of each other seeing each other this year already,
but I don't mind if I keep on, you know, playing and winning against
the guy.  You don't get sick of seeing guys like that, but yeah,
it is nice to at least be even with the guy of his caliber, definitely
in a head-to-head in your career.

 Q.  What are the differences when you assess against him,
what is the difference in your game?  Do you think that either
works for you or doesn't?

 M. WOODFORDE:  I said out there I wouldn't really say about him
what I changed from the last three times.  I think today, probably,
his level was not as high.  I know the times that he has been
beaten me this year, he definitely played something that -- another
level that he hadn't really played against me and I think he,
you know, that is tough to keep playing that level.  I mean, I
was very impressed and so was my coach, my trainer, Davis Cup
coach, they have seen the last three matches he played against
me and he has played awfully well.  It hasn't been a whole lot
between us.  I think the scores were like 3 and 3, 3 and 4.  But
I have had my chances.  I hadn't really taken it up to him.  I
didn't take any chances against him.  I just made a few subtle
changes to my ground play and to my thinking, and definitely today
the wind helped me.  It went against Jim.  I think it he was very
unsettled out there.  I just went out there with a bit more confidence
knowing what to do instead of -- I think, the last times he was
in control; today I was in control.  And that is how I have beaten
him the last, you know, three other times that I have been in
control and there was one time that I should have won and that
was the first time we played, and I let him -- I had him in the
position to beat him and let him out before his head was sliced
off.  He got out of that little trap that I set for him.  I feel
like I can play good tennis against the guy.

 Q.  Do you think that you were in control today because the
wind made it difficult for him to pass and you were going to come
to the net --

 M. WOODFORDE:  I didn't come to the net an awful lot.  As I said,
I just made a few subtle changes to the way that I wanted to play
and to where I was going to set the points up and, you know, I
remember a few years ago when we played here it was windy, as
well, and I think back then I probably did attack more-- today,
I mean.  I didn't want to, you know, give him a chance.  I didn't
want to set it up too much for him because the last three times
I have been coming in and he has been passing me very well.  I
just -- I don't know, he was riding high on confidence the last
three times.  Today, he was not as confident, I don't think. 
I think he had a bit of a setback losing early in Indian Wells,
and, you know, I just was going to make him play.  Other times
I made a lot of errors against him; gave him a good start and,
you know, against a guy like that, you can't give him starts.
 So today I got the start and was in control from the first point.
 That is what I wanted to do and set out to do and it worked today.
 So I think that the wind -- he just was very unsettled by everything,
the way the ball was bouncing, coming off of my racket, playing
a little bit different.

 Q.  Can you sense his frustration level rising you getting
out on top of him?

 M. WOODFORDE:  Yeah, I think that is what probably Mark Woodforde
is all about.  I go out there and I frustrate a lot of people
and I play a variety -- I have a lot of variation in my game and
I am not out there like Jim trying to get out and hit forehands
and hit the hell out of the ball and overpower everyone.  I can
maybe do that.  I can come into the net.  I can stay back and
work my way in.  Basically, I am an attacking type player at net.
 I am going to try everything I can to frustrate the opponent
on the other end.  Because I feel like I can open up his weakness
and make them a little bit more obvious, that is the way I look
at it.  And it has worked well in the past against him.

 Q.  Weakness such as what?

 MARK WOODFORDE:  As I said, when I beat him in Paris last year
I came out and sort of was asked a couple of questions about what
he should do and how I played against him and, you know, he beat
me three times, so I am not going to start to saying anything
to you guys how I play, specifically against him and what is good
and what is not.  I think it should be fairly obvious.  I am not
the only player that plays that way against him, so he has some
weakness, but his strengths really can cover up those weakness
as well. So you have got to be out and execute properly against
him.

 Q.  It's been a very encouraging few days for Australia all-around;
hasn't it, Mark?

 M. WOODFORDE:  Beautiful.  Great to see.

 Q.  Is there any reason you think it has happened or --

 M. WOODFORDE:  I think probably having lost in Davis Cup was
a good -- not only personally for myself, but for the guys on
the team and for the guys that hopeful would be a part of the
Davis Cup team.  I think to see us lose with Newk and Roche as
leaders, it was a horrible kick; not a good kick for us, but it
was a horrible kick in the pants in the guts for myself, and we
have a proud history in Davis Cup, so it is not only that.  We
have been working very hard.  Tony and Newk have been trying to
develop more camaraderie between all the Australia players and
we had a couple of evenings together in Indian Wells and where
we all got together and spoke about what we wanted to do to achieve
and what they hoped to see us do and, you know, I just think some
of the younger guys are now developing into better players.  Kilderry
and Tebbutt have had great weeks and Philippoussis.  I think they
are the next generation of players that Australia has. It is time
that they needed to stand up and I think when they see myself
and Pat Rafter, Todd Woodbridge, Stolts and Frommy, being seeded
in an event like this, it encourages them all.  I hope that it
does.  It is great to see them beat some of the higher ranked
players like Forget and Krajicek - that is progression, and working
hard and getting results, getting the most out of your game.

 Q.  This chat that they had, Newcombe and Roche were with
all the Australians?

 M. WOODFORDE:  Yes.

 Q.  Not just for Davis Cup?

 MARK WOODFORDE:  It was both.  So I mean, those younger guys,
their turn will come, I am sure some of them have very bright
futures, but they have got to be able to come out to current players
like myself not only myself, but the other guys and, you know,
you want to hit some balls together; you want to practice; you
want to train; you want to have dinner and I think now that they
have the courage, the confidence that from winning, you know,
against top players and seeing us more often at these tournaments,
that they are doing that and I think they are just adjusting --
going through an adjustment period.  So it is fantastic.  I mean,
we need a good depth of players, and it is a great feeling to
turn up at an event like this and see a half a dozen of more players
there.

 Q.  In a way, it is the old Australian way, camaraderie and,
of course, the Swedish way again, all the player's key rivals
on the court, but always --

 M. WOODFORDE:  Heck, I wouldn't want to lose to one of those
little shis - no way.  But, you know, I will be there supporting
them while I can, but as long as they are not in my quarter of
the draw, that is fine.

 Q.  Which of those three guys that you mentioned, is there
one that you think will have more success than the others?

 MARK WOODFORDE:  I probably don't know quite as much about Kilderry
because he is sort of new to the scene and he has been going through
the challenger satellite level coming up and Philippoussis, I
have seen at Davis Cup Tie.  I have never seen an Australian hit
the ball or be as tall; hit the ball as hard in any moment, doesn't
matter what the score is, in a practice match or training session
or even in a proper match, he just hits -- he just wants to wallop
that and he has great success with that at the moment.  With a
game like that, I think he has got a very bright future.  I think
he has some outside influences that need to be taken control of.
 He is the one out there playing; he needs to grasp that conception
of it and just go out there and play the best that he can week
in and week out.  Tebbutt, I think he is a great player, with
a serve like that and the ability to play two hands and hold off
the ball and I think he is really lacks a lot -- doesn't have
self confidence and so it is great to see him have a tournament
like this.  Hopefully that will boost him up big time.  But I
think Philippoussis has the big power game and "little killer"
probably needs to get a little bit taller and a little bit stronger,
but he has beaten Rafter and the players he has beaten this week,
you just beat one of those type of players, so I think all of
them have great futures as long as they believe in themselves.


 End of FastScripts..... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT