U.S. OPEN
August 30, 1994
Mark Woodforde
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Could you just tell us, you fought so long, so hard, could you tell us your
perspective of this? 

MARK WOODFORDE: Well, I was trying to win a match basically on a second serve and I
think at this level of tennis if you try to play to a standard of that, then, you know,
you deserve to get your ass kicked. So I guess in the end I thought the level I was
playing at, I got what I deserved. So, you know, that was basically it. 

Q. What's wrong with your first serve? 

MARK WOODFORDE: You ask me? It obviously went back to Australia while I came to New
York. I've been playing well and serving well and, you know, I've been practicing with a
lot of tough guys leading up to here, and been handling them quite well and today, it
just, you know, probably a combination of, you know, thinking that it was, you know, it is
a tough first round and, you know, it just wasn't there. So, no matter what I was trying
to do, it was worse. I've come off and I have a very sore back now, it's just from
throwing the ball very low and I obviously couldn't do anything to -- the adjustments I
was making was just making it worse and so I lost the match. 

Q. Does this have anything -- yesterday we heard Ivanisevic say he was being scared
here and Becker was slow to warm up, he couldn't find his service range early on in the
match, is it anything to do with the surface here; what goes on around this tournament
that's different from others; your perspective on that? 

MARK WOODFORDE: I don't know what it is for the other guys. Basically, I've got nothing
to be scared about playing Marc Rosset and nothing to be scared about playing the first
round of U.S. Open. And I've played many opens, and if I start shaking in my boots about
playing first round matches, I might as well retire tomorrow or stop playing singles all
together. I mean-- to go out there and maybe a few guys are questioning whether the
umpires are doing the correct job. I mean, there are people moving back and forth
constantly here and I think there seems to be a big question mark on whether we're playing
under ATP rules or under Grand Slam rules and maybe there's some sort of problem that
maybe -- not that it affected the result of my outcome today, and if it had been following
what Becker and Ivanisevic did, then there would have been justice and I should have won
because Rosset was a seed and if the seeds are falling, perhaps I should have been out
there with him a two set to Love lead and a breakup in the fourth is pretty unforgivable. 

Q. Rosset threw his racket down after losing the first two sets, what was going through
your mind when you won the first two, you were feeling good right then? 

MARK WOODFORDE: I was wondering when the umpire was going to grab control of the match
and start penalizing my opponent. I'm basically sick to death of having so-called
professional umpires sitting in the chair doing absolutely bugger all and letting guys get
away from it. As far as I'm concerned there are two rules, one for the top guys and one
for the rest of us and obviously he's allowed to get away with something like that. If it
was me out there throwing my racket, I'm sure I would have been hit. So it gets pretty
demoralizing when they're allowed to -- when they're conversing in French as well. So, I
mean, basically the match, I should have won. I said that I was trying to -- the way I was
playing was winning on a second serve and I couldn't achieve that today. If I did I would
have come off and absolutely been laughed in my face, because I'd never done that before.
He's too good a player to not make adjustments to-- opposing someone who's just hitting
second serves at him. He should have won -- well, I should have won from leading two sets
to one, but I'm not surprised that he came back facing so many second serves that he did. 

Q. So it was an adjustment he made? 

MARK WOODFORDE: He was rushing everything in the first two sets and I think he just
settled down. Just settled down totally and mentally tried to reassess that he wasn't
facing too many first serves and that not to get panicky too much. I think he really
started to came down and, you know, instead of getting three points, I was hitting volleys
around my shoelaces and then he hit a couple of winners and so on and you know the match
changed around and he severed better as well. I was getting a lot of second serves myself
and doing something with them that didn't work out like that for the whole five sets. 

Q. Have you ever come back from two sets to Love yourself? 

MARK WOODFORDE: Yup. 

Q. When was that? 

MARK WOODFORDE: Wimbledon, I've done that, and I don't know if that's the only time.
I've played many, many five-set matches in my career at the Slams and, you know, it is a
great feeling coming back in two sets to Love down, you feel that, you know, the match has
sort of slipped away from you totally and you just really hung in there and you've
obviously had to make a major adjustment to come back from two sets to Love. I think at
the standard that we play at, if someone is playing really, really well, they should
virtually closeout the match over the best of five sets. If you hang in there and come
back, you've really held yourself together well and it is a big victory. 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT