NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CAVALIERS vs CELTICS
May 25, 2018
Terry Rozier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Cavaliers - 109, Celtics - 99.   
 Q.  You've played Game 7s at TD Garden, but you've never played a Game 7 against LeBron James with a chance to go to the NBA Finals.  What do you anticipate that environment is going to be like Sunday night?  
TERRY ROZIER: It's going to be a lot of fun, first and foremost.  It's going to be a lot of fun.  We're looking forward to it.  Obviously, we came up short tonight.  But we need the whole city of Boston to be behind us.  We know LeBron is different than a lot of other guys, but we've got to get the job done.  That's no excuse, so we're looking forward to it.   
 Q.  What can you take from the previous Game 7 that you guys played this postseason that can maybe help you this Sunday night?  
TERRY ROZIER: I'm pretty sure we'll go back and look at film, let Coach do what he does about making his adjustments.  But at the same time, we've still got to come out aggressive and play Celtics basketball.  We can't just rely on being at home.  Can't just rely on us being at home for an excuse that it's going to be easy.  It's not.  But like I said, we're looking forward to it.  We've got to come out aggressive, and we've got to make things happen.   
 Q.  You mentioned you can't just rely on being at home, but what is it in this series where home court has meant so much to both teams?  
TERRY ROZIER: You've got your fans behind you.  It's a whole different feeling when you're playing at home.  You're just so amped.  Our crowd is unbelievable, one of the best in basketball.  We're looking forward to it.  It's going to be a lot of fun.  Like Coach said, it was the best two out of three.  We've got to go back home for Game 7, and we've got to take care of business.   
 Q.  And facing LeBron in that game, you look at his numbers, 46 points in 46 minutes, you know pretty much what he's going to get almost every night.  Is it the mindset that let's stop everybody else and let him get his?  
TERRY ROZIER: It's just making it tough for him and all the other guys.  We know he's going to make tough shots.  We know he's going to be aggressive.  But that's not an excuse just to let him score 40 and try to stop the other guys.  We're trying to stop him, too.  But just show length and make it tough for him as much as we can.  We're trying to make him exert as much energy, so it's going to be important for Sunday.   
 Q.  What does it mean to come back home in a Game 6 against LeBron James and the Cleveland Cavaliers and have the kind of performance that you had today?  
TERRY ROZIER: I'm not really worried about the performance.  Obviously, I've been kind of struggling, but it was just good to see the ball go through the basket a couple times.  But obviously I'm a winner -- I want to win.  I'm going to go back and look at film and see what I still could have done better to put my guys in position for us to come out on top.  Moving on to Game 7, and I just want to come out aggressive and play my style of basketball.   
 Q.  What changed in the second quarter?  You guys obviously wanted to come out with a good start, you got it on the road.  What changed in the second?  
TERRY ROZIER: We stopped getting the ball inside.  We looked for a lot of mismatches, post-ups in the first quarter.  I think we kind of went away from that the second quarter, and they got run-outs and they started playing with pace.  One basket led to another for them, and when they went up, they just never looked back.  We found we were fighting from down the whole game, and it was tough.  But the second quarter definitely killed us today.   
 Q.  Kevin Love exits early in the game, and then they throw out the lineup with Kyle Korver.  What exactly differently did you notice about that lineup compared to the one with Kevin in there?  
TERRY ROZIER: Well, when you're playing guys like Tristan [Thompson] and Larry Nance a lot, they're very athletic, so they're always on the glass.  We've got to do a better job of keeping those guys off the glass.  They got a lot of second-chance points tonight, and that's things that we can control.  So we've got to go look at film and get guys off the glass.  When they're playing with those two guys, it's tough to keep them off.  So we just got to do a better job of that.   
 Q.  The first six games of this series you have 36 assists to six turnovers.  Speak about your growth as a point guard not only in this series but in the entire postseason.  
TERRY ROZIER: Part of being a point guard is just taking care of the ball, putting guys in the right spots, leading your teammates.  I just try to take care of the ball as much as I can.  It's not something that I think about when I'm out there.  It's just something that just happens.  It's just a good stat to have, and I just want to keep building off of it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT