U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR FOUR-BALL CHAMPIONSHIP
May 31, 2017
Alice Chen
Taylor Totland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You guys are one away.  What's going through your heads right now?  
ALICE CHEN: I don't know, just keep having fun.   
TAYLOR TOTLAND: Plan is working.   
ALICE CHEN: Just take it one shot at a time.  I think this has really taught me to love match play.  It's just been so much fun to have -- to be able to be aggressive and have someone have your back at the same time, and we do a really good job of that.  So we're just covering each other really well, and it's definitely such a team effort.  A lot of pars, a lot of birdies, so yeah.   
 Q.  Starting off well has been a theme for you guys all week.  You win the first two of the day once again.  How much does it help to be up early?  
TAYLOR TOTLAND: Kind of -- I don't know if cushion is the right word, but it gives you like a confidence going into it.   
ALICE CHEN: For sure.  We parred the first one, and then --   
TAYLOR TOTLAND: We bogeyed it, I think.   
ALICE CHEN: Second hole -- what happened there?  I don't remember.  Did I putt it close?  I'm so bad at remembering.  I think I put it to like two feet or something.  And then you just had so many like mid-range putts that dropped.  So good.  Oh, my gosh, that one on --   
TAYLOR TOTLAND: Alice was the glue in the beginning.   
ALICE CHEN: And then your putts coming in were just like, wow.  Like that one.   
 Q.  The key point of the match I thought was you on 13, when they were -- Jennifer had a good approach and was in good shape, and you made the 10-footer downhill to halve the hole.  I thought that was key.  
TAYLOR TOTLAND: Yeah, that putt was huge.   
ALICE CHEN: I didn't really feel it.  I was just like -- I set up over it, and I was like, this looks good to me in my eye, got pretty comfortable with it, and it just had good speed and went in.  It moved a good bit, probably like --   
TAYLOR TOTLAND: Yeah, she came in clutch there.   
ALICE CHEN: And then walking up, we saw that she had a good look for birdie, and she's like, I'm just going to try to follow in your footsteps, and I was like, no, I'm going to try to follow in your footsteps.  That's what I've been trying to do all day.  And then she made it, and it was like, oh, my gosh.   
 Q.  Yeah, again, 14 they were close and in good birdie position and then you make the putt, put the pressure on them and they miss, and it looked like it was whole to be a hole for them and you steal it from them.  
TAYLOR TOTLAND: Yeah, match play is crazy.   
ALICE CHEN: Yeah, you go from like thinking you'll leave 1-up to like losing one.  That's hard, so it definitely is a mental game to always expect that they make it so you're never caught by surprise.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT