U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR FOUR-BALL CHAMPIONSHIP
May 30, 2017
Taylor Totland
Alice Chen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  It's just a shame you guys aren't having any fun out here; it's really disappointing.  Take me back to 16 to get it all square.  What happened on that hole?  
TAYLOR TOTLAND: 16, so we both hit it really close.  I was actually off the green on the fringe, both had really good birdie opportunities.  I made mine, and then Alice made hers, so we both birdied that one, and then just parred 17.   
 Q.  What was your distance here?  What club did you hit?  
TAYLOR TOTLAND: I hit an 8-iron.   
 Q.  You seemed to know right away --  
TAYLOR TOTLAND: Yeah, walking down the fairway, I was like, you can do this.  I'm like sitting there with my little cross, like come on, God.  Sunk it, made the putt.   
 Q.  You had to wait a while to putt.  How do you --  
TAYLOR TOTLAND: Okay, this sounds really stupid.  So I found -- so if you look at that, when I'm bored, which is often, I kind of look at my ball and play with it, and I noticed the 3 if you flip it, it kind of looks like a bird's head; do you see it?  Kind of, yeah, and that keeps me entertained for like -- I sit there, and I'm like -- so that's kind of how I kept my cool, staring at my ball.   
 Q.  So this is a grind of a match you guys halved.  I think there are only three holes won by either side, maybe four with the last one here.  What was going on out there?  
ALICE CHEN: I think early, it was just -- right out of the gate, that was a good shot in.   
 Q.  You birdied the first one, right?  
ALICE CHEN: I think I put it to like a foot and a half, and like they just conceded the birdie.  And then we birdied 4, I putted in like a four-footer on 4, and like birdies like halved the hole.  And so when you birdie to halve the hole, you know it's a really good match.   
TAYLOR TOTLAND: And that probably happened four or five times today.   
ALICE CHEN: There were a lot of birdies that were halved.   
TAYLOR TOTLAND: They played great.   
ALICE CHEN: They played amazing.  It was funny, we were coming down the stretch, and I forget what exactly -- you made some putt, and I just like roared, and I have like --   
TAYLOR TOTLAND: Alice is normally very quiet.  I normally don't fist pump.  She yelled, I fist pumped, so it's --   
 Q.  I could see you obviously on 17 green when you guys won 16, and I saw, I was like, well, I guess they just won the hole because I could see the guys running around.  
ALICE CHEN: We're hyped.  Yeah, I hit a 3-wood that was like 20 yards farther than I've ever hit it, so I'm pretty juiced up.  I think a lot of that has to do with like playing for a partner, and it's different than college because it's like everybody is still individual, but when you combine the score together, it's like -- this is the result of it.   
TAYLOR TOTLAND: Yeah.   
 Q.  Have you guys been through a double-round day in a USGA event before?  
ALICE CHEN: No.   
 Q.  So what was the first experience like?  
ALICE CHEN: Amazing.  I would just look like over to Tot like coming down 18 fairway, it just sounds really cheesy, but I was like, I'm her partner, like I'm just so grateful to be here with her.  We're both rocking it.  We're playing great golf.  So again, just like super grateful for the opportunity to do this.  This has just been so much fun.   
 Q.  You're two good rounds away from winning the thing.  What's going through your head?  
TAYLOR TOTLAND: Take it shot by shot, keep having fun.   
ALICE CHEN: I tell her that a lot, but honestly it's more for me, just shot by shot, that's all you can do, keep giving yourself opportunities even if you're 1-down or something.   
 Q.  What's the game plan tonight?  
ALICE CHEN: Netflix.  Just so watch some Netflix.   
 Q.  What are you going to watch?  
ALICE CHEN: Friends.  Friends is my show I'm watching now.   
TAYLOR TOTLAND: You haven't finished that?   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT