HSBC WOMEN'S WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2007
Amy Hung
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  What was the turning point for you?  What do you think really gave you the edge and put you over the top today?   
 AMY HUNG:  I think I played decent today.  I think Cristie getting a couple holes got in trouble, so I got the benefit of that.  And then since you start in that situation, it's probably hard to get it back.   
  
  Q.  What did she do when you got into trouble?   
 AMY HUNG:  She had one bad hole on the front nine, No. 4 or 5, the one before the par 5, and then I just played very smooth today and everything just -- maybe because of massage yesterday.  It just helped my swing slow down and make it more compact.   
  
  Q.  Are you going to get another massage again?   
 AMY HUNG:  Hopefully, if I have time.   
  
  Q.  What were you doing particularly well today?   
 AMY HUNG:  I got a couple of lucky holes, like she got in trouble a couple of holes and then I think that's about it.  I didn't play like perfect, but hopefully I can work on something; and then because I knew in the weekend it will be harder and harder and hopefully I can get the feeling even better.   
  
  Q.  I heard you talking that you had just gotten into the field; how did that work?  Is this your first time playing in this event?   
 AMY HUNG:  Yeah, first time getting in this event.  I think it's the top 60-something to get in.  And then I was 59 before last week, so I was very excited I could get in because I knew it was guaranteed money, and it's an honor to join this event with all of the other players.  So, very exciting.   
  
  Q.  Have you played a lot of match play?  What's your history?   
 AMY HUNG:  In the formal tournaments, I haven't played many, probably only twice, like juniors.  But when I was practicing in college with my teammates, we used to do match play.   
  
  Q.  Where did you go to college?   
 AMY HUNG:  I went to college in Taiwan, a sports college.  I came after I graduated.   
  
  Q.  Thrilling to beat a player of Cristie's caliber?   
 AMY HUNG:  I could say I've never thought about it, but obviously you want to beat the person you play with.  She's a very good player and she just won a major a couple of weeks ago.   
 I really respect her a lot.  I'm just glad that I played with her in the same group.  I think I learned a lot from her today and then I knew that all of the good players are here this week -- I'm just going to absorb all of everybody's good stuff and hopefully it will put me up to the top one day very soon.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT