U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 30, 2007
Amy Hung
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   CRAIG SMITH:  Amy Hung, minus 2 today and minus 3 for the 36 holes of the championship.   
  
  Q.  Nice round, Amy, good playing.  How did the golf course play?  You obviously liked it.  You're 2-under for today.  A 69.  Did the rain or the wet conditions make any difference or what was it like out there?   
 AMY HUNG:  I think the weather, how can I explain this?  Today's not so hot as the other days.  And then because I had better draw, I play in the early morning, so I think that's a benefit of the players that start first.   
  
  Q.  Were the greens a little more receptive?  Would they hold the shots better?   
 AMY HUNG:  About the same.  I think.  Depends where you hit it from.  If you hit it from the rough, it's not going to hold at all.   
  
  Q.  You're doing very well and in probably the biggest championship in the world.   
 AMY HUNG:  Yes.   
  
  Q.  You're not having any problems dealing with your nerves, obviously, you seem calm and collected.   
 AMY HUNG:  Actually, I did for probably a couple holes, but I pulled myself out of the box and then through some exercising of my mind for a little bit and then come back and wish I could play as normal as I can.  And then I think I do well.   
  
  Q.  Do you think the fact that there's so much starting and stopping and playing a lot of holes today, is that going to help the younger players?   
 AMY HUNG:  I think so.  I think a lot of young players like me Meena in my group, she's so cute and she strikes the ball very well.  She's probably how you prepare the golf course and how much you hadn't dealt pressure.   
 I think that's the key.  Because I think this course is not, it's not as unforgiving as the previous year.  It just matters how you think.  I think.   
  
  Q.  Thank you very much.   
 AMY HUNG:  Thank you.   
  
  Q.  What did you do all day yesterday to wait through the delay and what will you do between now and the start of the third round?   
 AMY HUNG:  You want the truth?  Actually, Thursday I went to bed like nine o'clock and I sleep in to 11.  That's probably the funnest thing I ever done.  I just catching up on some sleep and then relax.   
 And but I'm, very fortunately, I didn't get to tee off.  So I was actually, I just warm-up and hit a couple balls and I did may practice.  So I just tried to relax and then sleep more.  So I sleep early again and that's how I do it usually.  I try not to offer work.   
  
  Q.  If everything goes as planned you'll be sort of at the end of the field among the leaders.  Which looks like you may not finish again this evening.  Any frustration in that or just happy to be among the leaders?   
 AMY HUNG:  Just happy.  This is like the greatest tournament in the world and I'm just happy to be here.  And I think all the players are doing the best they can.  There's nothing we can control for the weather.  So just be patient and one shot at a time and we play as much as we can.   
  
  Q.  What is more difficult to prepare for this, the physical preparation or the emotional preparation of putting away the bad shots?   
 AMY HUNG:  I think that probably physical for me at this moment.  Because I have injured the chest.   
  
  Q.  Tell us about that.   
 AMY HUNG:  I have just from the golf swing I have.   
  
  Q.  Muscles?   
 AMY HUNG:  Not the muscle, I have sprained a joint a little bit.   
  
  Q.  Between your rib cage?   
 AMY HUNG:  Like the collar bone.  A then like the rib cage.  So I just try to do more like short game, that's why I'm very comfortable with the short game now and maybe that's the key.  So I try not to swing too much and then just try to relax.  And put some ice, more like take care of the injury than really try to practice in this heat.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT