SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC
June 2, 2006
Amy Hung
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PAUL ROVNAK:  Amy, thanks for coming in and speaking with us.  This is your career low by two shots.  Talk about your day.  What was working well for you today.
AMY HUNG:  Everything goes pretty smooth.  I think putting.  I found the putting back.  Usually, I'm very confident with the short game and I found it back, so...
PAUL ROVNAK:  Questions, guys?
Q.  Did you have a sense coming into today that you were going to play this well when you missed the cut last week?  What's the big change, or why did you play so well today?
AMY HUNG:  Not really much different.  Just another day for me.  I just try my best every day and everything clicked.  So I hit more fairways and hit more greens and more birdie chances, and I made birdie.  Didn't have much big mistake like the one I had last week, and I couldn't recover.
Q.  What was that mistake last week?
AMY HUNG:  Last week the course is narrow, so I guess I just didn't fit the course very well.  The course didn't fit me very well, I should say.  I like this course.  Wider fairways and you can pretty much see everything.
Q.  Was there a point in the round or a hole in the round that got you going, or where you felt like this might be a special day for you?
AMY HUNG:  Not really.  I tried to just do one shot at a time.  So I didn't really think about any special hole or any special shot.  I just tried to put the ball there.  That's how I think about the whole day.
Q.  How have you played here before?  Have you had any good rounds here before?  What are your recollections of this course?
AMY HUNG:  I think I do okay in the past two years, but I remember the weather wasn't that nice.  Like today was calm and perfect.  So I didn't hit as much of the fairways last year.  So I get in like the long stuff a couple times.  But when you play well everything's easier.
Q.  Amy, was there one shot or hole today where you thought, Man, this could be something really good?
AMY HUNG:  Not really.  Every shot the same.  There are some shots I almost made it to the hole, like 17.  Is it 17, Par 3?  Yeah, I almost made it.  And just everything went exactly what I pictured, so that was wonderful.
Q.  What's it like to look up and see your name on the leaderboard when you walk off 18?
AMY HUNG:  I think    oh, I like the feeling.  I love to be on the top.  You know, all the players does that.  But I haven't been having this feeling for a long time, so that was kind of exciting.
Q.  Were you watching, as you were going around, watching scoreboards, or did you just play and wait until you were done to look at the scoreboard?
AMY HUNG:  I saw it a couple holes ago, like in the Back 9.  I saw oh, AMY HUNG tied for first.  But I didn't really    I was just trying to concentrate on every shot.
Q.  How would you describe your career to this point in time?
AMY HUNG:  That's a tough question.  I started since I was seven, so I play a lot of amateur event.  I do pretty well in the amateur career.  So since I turned pro I didn't do as better as I    as good as I expect.  So now I    I think this is going to be a transition.  So hopefully everything goes smooth today and keep going like this.
Q.  Has there been like a change in swing or teacher or change in how you approach the game?
AMY HUNG:  Not really.  I guess more like other than golf.  Like I'm more comfortable on the tour and more used to the traveling life and, you know, just I think this is my home.  I feel like home.  More comfortable.  I think that helps a lot.

Last year I wasn't here at all.  I just tried to play, but I cannot really do, you know, release the power.  Just like something was holding onto me, and this year is much, much better, and much smoother.  Everything work out well.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Go through the score card now.  Let's start with the birdie on 3, first Par 5.  Just tell us what you hit in.
AMY HUNG:  I hit 3 wood into the green, about 24 footer, 20 footer, and two putt birdie.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Do you remember how long the birdie putt was?
AMY HUNG:  About 20 footer.  Oh, the birdie putt?
PAUL ROVNAK:  Eagle putt was 20 feet, right?
AMY HUNG:  Yeah.
PAUL ROVNAK:  And then birdie on
AMY HUNG:  About two footer, two feet.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Two feet.  And birdie on No. 8?
AMY HUNG:  No. 8, I hit sand wedge    what's No. 8?
PAUL ROVNAK:  Short Par 4.
AMY HUNG:  Oh, yeah, I hit sand wedge and just tap in.  Almost in the hole, exactly there.
PAUL ROVNAK:  No. 9, another Par 5.
AMY HUNG:  No. 9, I do a little chip shot, just tap in.
PAUL ROVNAK:  So were you right of the green, left of the green, short of the green in two?
AMY HUNG:  Where was I?
PAUL ROVNAK:  Short right and then chip.  Thank you.  And then 12?
AMY HUNG:  12, I hit 3 wood and sand wedge, and ten footer.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Perfect.  And then the Bogey on 13, what happened there?
AMY HUNG:  Oh, I missed the green and I have two tiered chip.  I hit like five yards past the hole and I missed the putt.
PAUL ROVNAK:  You missed the green
AMY HUNG:  I thought I made it.  Can I redo it again?
PAUL ROVNAK:  You missed the green which way?
AMY HUNG:  Right.
PAUL ROVNAK:  But you bounced back with a birdie on 14?
AMY HUNG:  Uh huh.  14, hit 9 iron into the green and like ten footer.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Okay.  15, Par 3.
AMY HUNG:  I hit 5 iron and ten footer.
PAUL ROVNAK:  17, short Par 3.  You said you thought you almost made it.
AMY HUNG:  Yeah.  That's just a tap in, too.  Have just a pitching wedge and I hole in one for that.  Tap in, two footer.  My caddie has an easy day.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Anymore questions?  All set?  Thanks.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT