AL DIVISION SERIES: RED SOX v INDIANS
October 10, 1999
Richie Sexson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Obviously, you got to be excited playing tonight, huh?
 
 RICHIE SEXSON: Yeah, I'm definitely excited, you know. It's fun to watch and it's fun
to win, but I think it's a lot more fun when you're in the line-up. I'm obviously excited,
and, you know, I understand my situation with right-handed pitchers and what not. I had a
pretty good idea I was going to play today, so, yeah, I'm excited. 
 
Q. Conventional wisdom on you is you need to play pretty much every day to get a lot of
at-bats. It's hard at this stage of your career to come in cold after a week on the bench.
Is that accurate, and how do you feel?
 
 RICHIE SEXSON: Yeah, I would say it's something that I'm not totally familiar with. I
got to, you know, I had the chance to, I guess, do that a little bit last year in the
playoffs. You know, I've realized that you have to hit a lot more and you have to do a lot
more things when you're not playing. So, you know, it is tough. And I think you'll find
that when I'm not going very well, it has something to do with not playing every day. But,
you know, I'm learning and I've been hitting a lot every day and taking as many ground
balls as I can. When this time comes, I'll be ready for it. 
 
Q. Can you just talk a little bit about the mood of your ballclub heading into this
game?
 
 RICHIE SEXSON: Pretty much the same as heading into last night. You know, we went in
there with a lot of confidence, we wanted to win, and, you know, I think it's changed a
little more. We definitely want to, you know, take care of Boston now if we can. I don't
think in anybody's mind we want to get into 2-2 and head back home. I think we want to try
to do it now. Guys are geared up and excited and ready to go today. 
 
Q. I don't know this for a fact, you might be the first person in baseball history with
100 RBIs not being able to find playing time in the season.
 
 RICHIE SEXSON: I understand my situation. I also understand Cleveland's situation.
They're kind of, you know, under a little bit of pressure to win the World Series. I can
see where they want to get that extra left-handed bat in the line-up. I think if you look
in the American League on who we were going to play coming into this thing, it was going
to be, you know, New York, Texas or Boston. The majority of the starters on those three
teams are right-handed. So I mean to go pick up that left-handed bat was going to help us
win, and that was the case. Went out, got Harold, he's a great hitter to play behind;
Harold Baines is not such a bad thing. I know my time's coming, I'm still young. I'm
gaining a lot of experience just being here and being around it. 
 
Q. What about Kent Mercker tonight? What kind of pitcher is he and what will he be
looking to do?
 
 RICHIE SEXSON: Well, you know, being in Fenway, Kent throws the ball fairly hard. You
know, maybe 87, 88, 89 at times, I would think. I would imagine he's going to try to keep
the ball away. I'm not sure what he's done to hitters such as myself. There's not too many
hitters 6'8" in the league. I'm not sure how he's going to approach it. I've never
faced him. That's also going to be a little test, my first couple at-bats, just figuring
out what he's going to do or what his approach is going to be. 
 
Q. With all the injuries this year, was there a sense of here we go again when Dave
Burba came out of the game yesterday?
 
 RICHIE SEXSON: No, I don't think so. You know, it was unfortunate, I'm sure just as it
was unfortunate for Boston to have Pedro go down and Nomar as well. I think that, you
know, those are the two main guys. Burba was one of our guys. It wasn't "here we go
again" but more or less what are we going to do now with our starting pitching. We
got guys that are on the roster right now. We got Jaret, who's solid, and, you know, we
got some things to back him up. Losing Dave Burba is definitely, at this point, was tough
for us. 
 
Q. Yesterday without Nomar in the line-up, do you think there was just a little sense
of maybe some overconfidence in the Cleveland clubhouse? I mean now that you guys didn't
have to face them with their best hitter, did you sense any of that?
 
 RICHIE SEXSON: You know, I don't think so. But I'm sure, I mean being a pitcher on the
other team, pitching to Nomar, in the back of your mind, I'm sure is like, "Thank God
he's not in the line-up." Because he's sure been a terror on us. I don't think as a
competitor, you think one guy goes down, okay, we're going to let it slide and throw to
whoever is hitting third or fourth now. I think Nomar for them was a big blow, and it was
obviously easier for us in that middle of the line-up having him gone. But by no means
were we taking the other guys that were in his place lightly, I don't think. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT