SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 27, 2010
Gary Hallberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. What does it mean to not only be playing this tournament in your home state, but also to post a 71 on day one?  
 GARY HALLBERG: It's wonderful to be home. Sleep in your own bed, playing on a golf course that I know fairly well. Yeah, it's great. We travel quite a bit and we're in hotels and so it's been great to be here this week. A lot of support. My buddy, my son's buddy, he was out there cheering and that was great.   
 71 was a solid round in the afternoon. Especially after double bogeying the first and double bogeying the fourth hole. Starting out like that, now you got the whole windy afternoon ahead of you. To come back like that, that was very, very rewarding and I feel great about that to shoot that score after that start.  
  
  Q. Do you hit it more you see this course, does the wind typically have much of a factor here as it was today?  
 GARY HALLBERG: The winds are higher than they normally are. Colorado, we all know in the afternoon the wind blows, maybe 20, 25. But 30, 35, you know, that's a lot.   
 And the direction was a little bit different too. I've never seen it on this course. Normally it's a little bit more southeast, it was kind of south, southwest. So it was a challenge. I don't know what the scoring was, but I'm sure it was very high.   
  
  Q. What was the best club in your bag today?  
 GARY HALLBERG: I think my driver. I hit two bad drives that cost me four shots, I should say, two swings, four shots. But after that I just drove it just great. I drove it on the par-4, I hit a 3-wood on 8 there.  
 And then I went for it on 14 and drove it on there. So that was great. That saved me some shots. So my driver.  
  
  Q. How do you feel this round sets you up for the rest of the tournament?  
 GARY HALLBERG: Well I got the morning now tomorrow. So that's, I think that's probably four shots easier in the morning than the afternoon, so it should be good.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT