THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 25, 2013
Gary Hallberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You came so close last year, this is a lovely start, isn't it? 
GARY HALLBERG:   It really is.   You know, last year was last year.   This is I whole new year, a new course.   You don't know, but I just seem to get up for these tournaments over here, I play pretty good in them.   Last year was fantastic and to have a start like that was great.

Q.   So much joy last year, because you led at halfway and then you bounced back and finished second to Freddie. 
GARY HALLBERG:   Yeah, bounced back.   That's my game; it's up‑and‑down.   Like today, I double‑bogeyed early and made an eagle and bogeys and birdies, and I suppose that's the way it is with me.

Q.   We use the term 'bounce back ability' and you have that; you find yourself digging deep and being able to respond to adversity?
GARY HALLBERG:   I like that, bounce back.   I look at it as bouncing away.   But bounce back has a better sound to it.   But definitely, I hung in there today and finished‑‑ bogey the last hole, you never want to do that but it was a great day.

Q.   That's the thing with links golf, you know there's going to be some adversity and you can't have a perfect round. 
GARY HALLBERG:   We had pretty good weather all this morning.   Looking over to my west this, it looks like rain coming and some wind or whatnot.   Didn't blow hard, like ten miles an hour. 

Q.   I take it there are some good memories about Royal Birkdale?
GARY HALLBERG:   Absolutely.   I think, how many years ago was it, '91, how many years is that; eight?   Anyway, yeah, I was halfway leader here in'91, so that was fantastic, so good memories, and it was just a joy to be able to play out there, it was beautiful. 

Q.   Was it a case of reminiscing when you stepped through the gates? 
GARY HALLBERG:   I don't notice the changes so much, but I remember the big picture, No. 1 tee shot.   I remember No.17 tee shot between those two big mountains there, very intimidating.   And you know, Southport, nice community. 

Q.   I take it the course doesn't get easier, whether it's an Open Championship or a Senior Open?
GARY HALLBERG:   It's tough.   If you miscue, like on 18, I didn't hit a bad 3‑wood off the tee, I'm in the high weeds.   You think you can do more than you can and then it wraps around the shaft and you pull it left and go right. 
Yeah, it's a beautiful setting.   It's a beautiful course.     And to walk it is wonderful.   To hit a little white ball and chase it, that's a whole 'nother thing.   But it's just great.   I think everybody loves it over here.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT