U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 11, 2013
Gary Hallberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MODERATOR:   Coming up next with the fourth posted 67, co‑leader Gary Hallberg.  
   
 Q.   Gary, has it sunk in that you're the co‑leader after day one?   
GARY HALLBERG:   You know, that's a good question.   I probably don't want to even think about that, you know.   Even at my age, at 55.   It's the same as when you're a young kid, you just try and play the best you can, and just happened that today was a real solid day.  
I was proud of myself in that I finished up the round real well.   I got to 3 under, 4 under.   I missed a couple of nice little birdie putts to get more.   But I hung in there, and I just felt like I was in control of the ball all day, which was nice on this course.  
It was tough this afternoon.   It's just a tough course.  
   
 Q.   What made it tough?   
GARY HALLBERG:   The hills up and down.   The wind was swirling.   The rough around the greens.   I hit a 6 iron on No. 3, my 12th hole.   Beautiful shot, kicked left.   I was 15 feet from the hole, but I could hardly get the club on the ball.   Made a bogey there.  
So, yeah, it was kind of feast or famine out there a little bit.  
   
 Q.   Looks like you had a chance to play this course before this weekend, get some practice and all that stuff.   You think that kind of gave you a little advantage of what to expect?   
GARY HALLBERG:   Yeah, I played it before.   So I played a lot of golf when I was younger at this real hilly course in college, and it reminded me of that.   A lot of uphill shots, side hill shots, and a lot of fun.   
You got to be creative out there, and I think that helps my game.   Helps my, you know, not think too much about my swing.   Just hit the shot.  
   
 Q.   [ No microphone ].   
GARY HALLBERG:   I've been working on my swing.   The old, okay, I'll do this, video and this and that.   Really, this week I just kind of threw it all out the window, and I just went to play golf, and it's kind of paid off.  
   
 Q.   Would you say that you were aggressive today, conservative?   How would you describe how you played today?   
GARY HALLBERG:   Well, I was comfortable.   I was just kind of letting it go.   I hit a lot of drivers, and I would say I just had a nice flow.   I didn't think much of either one, you know.   Went for the par 5s in two, a couple of them.   
   
 Q.   Will you do that through the weekend?   
GARY HALLBERG:   Absolutely.   I wish I could keep this same peace and frame of mind until Sunday.   That's the secret, isn't it?   Okay.   I like where I'm at.   I just want to stay right there, and if you can do that, then you're ahead of the game.   That's what the top guys do.   I struggle sometimes with that.   But just kind of try and keep a nice, even pace.  
   
 Q.   What do you think you need to do to stay in the lead going to Friday and, obviously, the weekend?   
GARY HALLBERG:   Well, I think stay relaxed.   Just play golf, hit each shot the best you can.   Stay loose between the shots.   Don't grind too hard.   Same as the old, you know‑‑ talk is cheap, my dad always used to say, you know.   Just you know what?   We'll see.   Just go and do it again.  
   
 Q.   What was the hilly course you were referring to in college?   
GARY HALLBERG:   It was called Old Town.   It's in Winston‑Salem, North Carolina.   Okay?   Thank you, guys.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT