ROLAND GARROS
June 2, 2015
Gilbert Ysern
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English.   
   
 Q.   Can you just explain what happened with the piece of metal that fell, what it was, what injuries were sustained, and how it happened?   
GILBERT YSERN:   I just realized I might need some help with translating a couple of technical words I might not know in English.   
As some of you may have seen, it's just metal plaque, three‑meter‑long metal plaque that fell from something we had put over the scoreboard to protect them from the pigeons.   
So it suddenly fell down, which of course nobody had anticipated, and it fell on a couple of people underneath.   Three of them were taken to First Aid services, and two of them had nothing in fact, and just one person had an injury.   He had an open injury on one of his wrists, so he was taken to the hospital for an investigation on his wrist to find exactly what he has, what he's suffering from.   
   
 Q.   Do you know how fast the wind was blowing at this time and what sort of caused it to break?  
GILBERT YSERN:   No, I mean, we think that actually the wind had something to do with what happened.   At this stage we are just conducting an investigation, as you can imagine, so I don't have any precise details to share with you.   
We just believe that of course it had something to do with the wind.   While the wind wasn't that strong, though, so it should not have happened, clearly.  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French.   
   
 Q.   I have a question about First Aid.   We saw three persons from civic protection.   They looked at what happened and they left immediately.   I wanted to know more about how many people you have from what we call the civic protection groups on the spot?   And the system, it looked like there were not many people, and they arrived‑‑ well, it took them time to arrive.   
GILBERT YSERN:   I'm not convinced about this.   I have no figures to give you about head counts or the number of people, the staffing of teams.   We do this with the authorities.   We do not decide ourselves how many people should be here.  
I was not there on the spot, but I was told that on the contrary, the First Aid people, if I can say emergency people, arrived there on the spot in less than a minute.   
Then what they do between this moment when they get close to the person who is injured, maybe they are going to wait for people to take care of them.   You know, that's part of their sphere of competence, which is not mine, not yours, not anybody else's but theirs.   
Therefore what had to be done was done by them very quickly.  
   
 Q.   Is it possible in French to tell us what you said in English to answer the question that was asked before?  
GILBERT YSERN:   Yes, of course.   The facts themselves.   
Well, it's a plate of aluminum that was a three‑meter‑long plate that fell on the spectators.   These are plates that were above the scoreboard to protect these score boards from the pigeons.   You know what the pigeons do, unpleasant things.  
So this plate fell on people.   Three people were sent to the public infirmary, and two of them had nothing at all.   They were not injured at all.   One of them was a child who got ‑‑he walked back on to the court to see the rest of the match.   
He was supporting Jo, by the way.   That's the anecdote.   He wanted to watch the match on the court.   So there was just one person who was injured.   It's an open injury or cut on the wrist, and emergency teams and the physician, the doctor, decided he should be sent to the hospital for further investigation to see what had happened to his wrist and the injury.  
   
 Q.   Will you do something for the people who were injured?  
GILBERT YSERN:   Well, of course.   First, we were with them and supported them.   As we speak, our organization is with this person, of course.   Of course this person and his three colleagues who were with him were of course, I must say, shocked by what had happened.   They were with this person who was injured at the infirmary.   
We will invite them, of course, when they want to come back, of course.   We will do good things for them, of course.  
   
 Q.   You said in English that you would look into the matter to see what has exactly happened.   How are you going to organize this to understand what's really happened?  
GILBERT YSERN:   Well, of course we will.   You can't take this lightheartedly, so we are conducting investigation as we speak.   We are going to see what's happened.   We will do this with our own logistics teams, but also we will get the support from external people with whom we work.  
Of course we will have the control teams who always do their job during the tournament.   You know, all of these provisional facilities that we have in the stadium, all of these facilities that do not last, are of course compliant with the law, the regulation.   It's always audited and controlled by experts.   It's their job.  
Tomorrow morning the control officers will be here to check the audit teams to check everything that has to be checked.   And even ourselves, in our organization, what we do and what we will continue to do tomorrow and this evening is check all that has to be checked.  
Because, you know, of course we have done everything before the tournament, but when such accidents happen, of course you do have to revisit everything, to check again everything.  
We are going to ask these audit experts to check everything everywhere tomorrow morning, to check that everything is in marching order.  
   
 Q.   What about tomorrow?   What about this plate?   Will it be removed forever?  
GILBERT YSERN:   No, we are not going to remove it.   The other plates have been secured even better.   Of course we have reinforced the structure, and the one that's fallen, we are not going to place it back.  
But the rest has been fixed again.   I mean, secured again so that there is no accident tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Is it the first time that such an incident has happened?  
GILBERT YSERN:   To my knowledge, yes.   I'm not sure we have these types of statistical data, but from what I gather, if my memory serves me well, you know, it's been 30 years for me.   
I have been working more or less closer or further away from this tournament directly or indirectly, but over the past 30 years, as I was saying, we have had no such accidents as this one.   
   
 Q.   Could you tell us from which height this plate fell on the spectators?  
GILBERT YSERN:   No, not really.   I think it fell into two different parts ‑‑well, first, it fell on to ‑‑well, it fell on to something and then bounced back on to the people.   So I can't really say precisely.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT