THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE INSURANCE
May 30, 2014
Ben Curtis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   With your position going in tomorrow, just 4‑under, and you've got a shot.   
BEN CURTIS:   Yeah, anytime you make the cut you've got a shot, I guess.   But playing pretty solid.   Had a few loose shots.   Couple of bad chips.   But I made some putts.   But I also missed my chances as well, but I'll take it.   
It's tough out there.   It's getting firmer and faster, so with that little bit of warm breeze, it makes it difficult.  
   
 Q.   You know this course as well as anyone.   You played here so many times.   As you look at this course ‑‑ and you mention it's drying out and whatever‑‑ how scary can this thing get over Saturday and Sunday?  
BEN CURTIS:   I don't know if it's going to get too scary, but I think there's going to be misses that will be very scary.   So you just gotta be careful of when you can be aggressive and when you can't.   
And I think it all depends on where your drive is or where the pin location is.   So you just gotta be careful.  
So the greens are rolling at a good pace.   If you get it going in the right direction, it's going to go in.   
So you're still going to probably see some good scores, no doubt about that.   But you might see some higher scores.  
   
 Q.   Greens are pretty firm, though.   We had a lot of rain in Ohio, obviously.   But Jack was even saying that they didn't plug it this year because of the Presidents Cup.   And it's actually pretty firm.   
BEN CURTIS:   It's getting there, yeah.   Yesterday the balls were kind of hitting, stopping; today they were taking one or two bounces before they would stop and weren't quite spinning back as much with the wedges.  
So, yeah, with the dry conditions and no rain in the forecast, it's going to be fun.  
   
 Q.   Has the novelty worn off for you with this thing, just growing up up the road?   Obviously it's a big week, your family and friends and everything, but is it easier to block it out or is it still...   
BEN CURTIS:   Yeah, it's easier.   I think the more times you do it, the more you adjust to it and get comfortable with it.   So it's a lot of fun and I enjoy it.   
It's probably one of the busiest weeks of the year just with everything, seeing people and dinners and things like that.   But it's also the most rewarding if you do well.  
   
 Q.   Do you have a mindset tomorrow as you go in?   They call Saturdays moving day.   
BEN CURTIS:   Well, yeah, I mean, I think you just gotta go out there make as many birdies as you can, and that's what I'm going to do try.   And obviously it all depends on where your tee ball is and your iron shot's laying.   So, I mean, I'll dictate that, but hopefully it's a day where you get off to a good start and make some birdies and shoot a good number.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT