ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 26, 2012
Ben Curtis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Coming off a week, what kind of week has this been starting with when you first got here?   I'm sure it's great to walk in the locker room and have a win.
BEN CURTIS:   Yeah, it was.   I came in late Tuesday, just dropped my golf clubs off and on the way I went.   It's just great to get back out here and play. 
Didn't get a chance to play the course before the tournament.   Just felt like I was comfortable where my game was, obviously, but, you know, just felt like I just go out there and see what happens this week and just play stress-free.

Q.   Particularly winning in the wind takes so much out of you.   What is your expectation?
BEN CURTIS:   Obviously you want to play well every time you tee it off.   Yesterday I was practicing and still hitting it good and still putting well.   What the heck, go out there and just be aggressive and try to shoot some good scores.   It's playing a little bit tough, they moved some tees around, make it more enjoyable for us.

Q.   You only missed two fairways.   You only missed two greens.   Pretty stress-free round.   Nicely done.
BEN CURTIS:   Yeah, it was.   Couple of them I missed but just on the fringes so made it pretty stress-free.   I three-putted that one.   Other than that, I played well.

Q.   Your expectation level, go ahead and keep this up, keep the roll going.
BEN CURTIS:   Might as well.   But you got three more days.   Anything can happen tomorrow and Saturday.   Get a chance Sunday to have a chance, that's all you can ask for.

Q.   How difficult was the wind today?
BEN CURTIS:   It was tough but, you know, playing in it from last week, just the fairways seemed a bit wider, the greens a bit bigger even though there's some small greens out here.   Didn't seem like we were hitting as many as 3 and 4-irons like we did last week into the greens.

Q.   When you missed the fairways here there's no snakes.
BEN CURTIS:   No, no snakes.   Gators.   Stay out of the water. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT