HSBC WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
October 17, 2003
Ben Curtis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BEN CURTIS:   Well, I'm really thrilled right now.  I haven't been playing very well of late and just been working on a few things this week.  I'm really glad to be playing tomorrow.

SCOTT CROCKETT: Obviously you didn't play yesterday, but you managed to come through okay. 

BEN CURTIS:   I just tried to take it to my advantage and maybe the rest helped, especially on the second 18.  I just look at it as a positive. 


Q. How important was it for you to do well today?

BEN CURTIS:   Well, not exactly.  I know that in my own heart, I truly deserved to win.  So you just kind of go out there and do the best if I can.  If I don't come out up, that's what happens.  I try to do my best.  Obviously, you want to do well and you want to prove to everybody else that you deserve it and that you won it.  And so I just want to go out there and try to play good golf and not really worry about that.  Just try to do the best I can and hopefully things good come out on top. 


Q. What did you think after your first shot?

BEN CURTIS:   May be one of those things, this morning I got a little tight.  I try to keep loose as best as possible, but it's one of those things, I haven't been hitting the ball well.  I wasn't surprised to see it do that.  I think the work that I've done the last few days paid off for the rest of the way. 


Q.  Do you have someone working with you?

BEN CURTIS:   Just myself.  My college coach helps me out every now and then but for the most part I work on stuff on my own. 


Q. Last time you played 36 holes in a day?

BEN CURTIS:   Well, I've tried to do it several times this year to be honest with you, with all of the rain we've had back in the U.S.  there's been three or four times where we've played 30 to 36 holes.  It's not that big of a deal.  It's a nice walk.  The weather is good.  It's not like you're walking on wet ground all of the time.  It no problem for us.


Q. Andy been telling you about this course?

BEN CURTIS:   A little bit.  But obviously he's never seen it like this.  He's always seen it when it's been wet and even for the PGA here, it's always been, like you said a little wet.  First hole we're hitting driver, 4- and 5-iron, and we're hitting wedges and 9-irons. 


Q.  What do you have to do for your match tomorrow?

BEN CURTIS:   Just have to go out and do my best.  Thomas is a great player.  I'll just have to go out there and may good golf.  Obviously he played really well the last two days, so if I don't have my A  Game, I'm going to be going home tomorrow. 


Q.  Have you had a chance to see Thomas' finish at the British?

BEN CURTIS:   I've seen glimpse of it, but I've never watched the full tape of it.  I just saw the 16th hole what happened to him.  We just went out and had a good time.  We sat there together at lunch and talked.  I'm sure we'll go out there tomorrow and try to do the best we can. 


Q.  What did you talk about?

BEN CURTIS:   His caddie was there and we were just talking about the golf.  He was talking about his  -- we were talking about Shaun Micheel. 


Q. Do you feel he will be out for revenge?

BEN CURTIS:   I don't think so.  He's just like any other competitor.  Obviously he wants to go out there and win, but I'm sure it will be a friendly match.  This is a friendly tournament.  Obviously you're trying to win, but it's one of those things, it's an honor to be here and you really do want to win.  But you just try to do the best you can and if it doesn't work out, it doesn't work out. 


Q.  When was the last time you played match-play?

BEN CURTIS:   I would say 2000 at the Western Amateur was the last time I played.  Obviously, sometimes you play with your friend at home, you play match-play, but it's obviously a lot different than this. 


Q.  Philosophy this week?

BEN CURTIS:   As firm as the ground is, you get a lot of roll off the tee, just try to go out there and make a lot of birdies.  That's the only thing you can do.  I don't think there was too many holes where we won with a par today, mostly birdies.  You just have to go out there and try to make quite a few birdies. 


Q.  Were you brought up playing in windy conditions?

BEN CURTIS:   Well, it's been blowing pretty much the same direction all week.  You know, inside the trees when you're down the hole, you know, the wind is swirling, but once the ball gets above the trees, it's blowing the same direction.  So you've just got to trust it and you just get the compass out.  And he's got the map reader on the yardage book, so you just kind of go judge off that and you tell where the wind is coming from and that's how you deal with it. 



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT