PUERTO RICO OPEN PRESENTED BY SEEPUERTORICO.COM
March 8, 2012
Ben Curtis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   So, Ben, 5‑under today, just take us to the round and what the keys were today.   
BEN CURTIS:   With the windy conditions, the big thing is to keep the ball in play, keep it in the fairway and hitin' a lot of greens and that's what I did.   I just tried to make a lot of controlled swings and hit the ball solid and get it going in the right direction, and I hit a lot of quality shots and made a couple of putts.   Could have made a lot more but hit it pretty well, I think hit 15 or 16 greens, and gave myself quite a few chances.   
It was a matter of keep doing that all day.   Played on Tuesday and yesterday with the windy conditions, so I just found out, gotta hit the greens and give yourself chances.   
   
 Q.   How would you characterize your year so far?   How do you think you're playing?   
BEN CURTIS:   I'm playing all right.   I missed a cut my only event over here; I missed a cut in Mexico.   I played that on Friday.   Other than that, I played three weeks on the European Tour, played solid, 13th in Dubai, good field, played well that week, so I feel like my game is there, just haven't played a whole lot over here, so just lookin' forward to playing well and getting some good starts under my belt.   
   
 Q.   How did you feel about the greens?   
BEN CURTIS:   They're all right this morning, they're a bit soft yet from the rain and stuff.   But, you know, they can't get 'em real fast because of the wind conditions, either.   But, yeah, overall they putted well today, and the course is in good shape, it's just a bit soft, the only thing that ‑‑ with it being this windy, I'm surprised, but we must have got more rain than what I thought.   
I didn't play in the afternoon yesterday so I didn't get to‑‑ I didn't see the rain, and they said is rained pretty good.   But overall the course is in great shape, it's a good golf course, you've got to hit good shots to score well and if you don't hit it well, especially with the wind, it could be a long day out there.   
   
 Q.   You mentioned the wind, is that the biggest challenge?   
BEN CURTIS:   I would say right now, yes.   I think‑‑ I played the first year, if I remember right, I thought it was a little firmer.   Obviously anytime you get a golf course that gets firm, it's going to play tougher because it's hard to control the distance, but, you know, with this week the soft conditions you can fly right at it and the ball is going to land and stop.   
So the wind is the biggest factor, I think.   
   
 Q.   Started with 5‑under with all of the conditions of the wind, how were things for you?   
BEN CURTIS:   I'm very pleased, no bogeys, that helps, anything under par is a good thing around here, the conditions the way they are.   Almost every week if you shoot under par you're going to do well, but I think the wind the way it is, just keep giving yourself chances to make birdies and not make mistakes, because there is plenty of trouble out there.   I was very fortunate, and I avoided it today and hit a lot of fairway and greens and makes golf easier when you do that.   
   
 Q.   So your goal was under par?  
BEN CURTIS:   Anything under par was the goal.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT