TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 26, 2010
Ben Curtis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  DOUG MILNE: Okay. Ben Curtis, thanks for joining us for a few minutes after a 6-under 64 bogey-free in round 3 at the Travelers Championship. Pretty much a big exclamation point right at the last. You gotta feel good about having closed the gap like you did. At one point I guess it was a six-stroke lead for Justin, and now it's just two. So just a couple of comments on the round and then we'll take some questions. Three. Sorry.
   BEN CURTIS: Yeah, I played nicely today and all week really. Hit a lot of greens. You know, that was the goal for the week, just hit a lot of greens, give yourself some chances, and that's what I've done so far.
   Got off to a slower start today than I maybe wanted to, but just stayed patient and tried to keep hitting the greens and tried to make the putts, and luckily the last nine holes they kind of started going in.
   DOUG MILNE: Okay. We'll go ahead and open it up for a few questions. 

   Q. Can you kind of talk about that, seeing Justin with such a big lead at the halfway point and knowing that you have to kind of throw a low score up there, and you went out and did it? 
   BEN CURTIS: Yeah. It's playing pretty similar to last year how, you know, I think we shot -- I don't know what the winner shot last year. 22. Maybe figured if you got anywhere around 20 this week, you're going to have a good chance to win, and that probably still is the number, roughly. 
   So you know, I just gotta keep playing aggressive when I need to and just keep hitting the greens and picking the right club. 
   You know, it's one of those weeks that, you know, if you shoot even par, you're going to go backwards. And coming off last week where you shot 3 or 4-over and you actually maybe moved up the leaderboard, this week it's the opposite, you gotta go 3 or 4-under to do that. 
   So it's just one of those weeks where, you know, coming off last week, the course is much softer, the greens much slower, so you can be a lot more aggressive.

   Q. Ben, is it easier to start off the day having the leader in front of you rather than --
   BEN CURTIS: Yeah, definitely. I mean obviously by the time I tee off tomorrow I probably won't be in second place or third place or fourth place. Probably be, you know, four or five back, and that's just the way how it is. It's going to get pretty bunched up, and that's what I expect at least. I don't know how it's going to pan out. 
   Yeah, so I have to play aggressive tomorrow, just like I have been the last few days and just keep hitting the greens and making birdies.

   Q. (Indiscernible). 
   BEN CURTIS: Well, I think there's going to be guys that get off that maybe played six or seven holes that are 2, 3, 4-under par, and you know, that's how it is. 
   But it's a good thing, you know. Coming off last week where it was so mentally struggling, where this week is actually fun. You can go out there and make birdies and give yourself some chances. A 180 from last week. So I think it helps the guys, especially that played last week, to come in here and feel a little bit better. 

   Q. Ben, is there a number where you're never out of reach, even though he was up 6, with one little hiccup if you shoot a 62?
   BEN CURTIS: Well, yeah. I mean I remember my first year here, Justin and I played the last group on Sunday, and I think Faxon and I forget who else, but they shot 61, 62 or something. 
   I mean it's one of those courses that you can do that, especially with the greens soft, and the wind, other than today, has been pretty calm. So it kind of made it scorable. 

   Q. Is this the best tournament you've had so far this year?
   BEN CURTIS: I played well at Bay Hill. You know, I struggled a little bit the last day, but you know, for the most part I was, especially after the way I've been playing. But yeah, I mean so far this is the most complete tournament, but it's not over yet. 

   Q. Would you rather see it firm up a little bit tomorrow rather than continuing to stay soft?
   BEN CURTIS: Well, I mean I've heard we're getting rain, so I think it's going to play like it has been the last few days. They expect it to, I guess. It would be nice if it got firm and fast, but you can't control Mother Nature.
   DOUG MILNE: Okay. Real quick before we let you go, if you wouldn't mind just running us through your birdies and give us some clubs and yards as best you can. 
   BEN CURTIS: Okay. 6, I probably had 95 yards or so, hit a sand wedge in there about four feet, made that. 10, hit a 6-iron in there, just a punch 6-iron, I'm guessing 180, 190, in that range, hit it just to the back portion of the green, had a nice look at it there, 10 feet or so. 
   12, hit a little pitching wedge and hit it to about three inches, so that was nice. 13, went for the green in two, hit it -- actually got off the green at one point, dropped down towards the hazard down there, chipped up to 10 feet, made that. 
   15, just hit it short right of the green, chipped up to 10 feet, made that. And then 18, made a palm 40 some feet, which was nice. A little gift. 

   Q. (Indiscernible)?
   BEN CURTIS: Oh, on 18? No. 5-iron. Wish it was a wedge. Maybe Bubba hit a wedge. I don't know. 
   DOUG MILNE: Okay. Well, Ben, thanks for your time. Best of luck tomorrow. 
   BEN CURTIS: Thanks.  
  End of FastScripts 
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT