SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 5, 2014
Ben Curtis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Pretty happy with the round.   You played so well early.   Little disappointed on the last few holes.  
BEN CURTIS:   Yeah.   Those are obviously the two hardest holes, especially 18.   Yeah, start the day to say you're going to be 1-under par, finish the round you would have took it especially with the forecast and a lot of tough pins as well.   Seemed like they were always on top of the ridges and seemed like quite a few back pins as well.   Yeah, played tough, but that's the way I like it.   Obviously tough out there, but, you know, I made a few out there.  
   
 Q.   What course do you think Kuchar is playing?  
BEN CURTIS:   Yeah, it's unbelievable.   He's on a great roll the last few years.   Obviously he's playing very confidently, and that makes a huge difference.   Joking today like that shot I hit on 14, you know, six months ago I probably threw in the towel but just kept fighting through it.   When you play good, oh, well, it's no big deal.  
   
 Q.   You made a couple of loose swings.   That one iron shot really was the only one.   The shot you hit at 7 where you three-putted that kind of the wind laid down.  
BEN CURTIS:   Kind of switched a little bit.   I don't know if it laid down or just switched a little bit, but, yeah, I mean, obviously just left myself a couple of putts, but overall I'm very pleased.  
   
 Q.   How do you like where you're sitting right now?  
BEN CURTIS:   Obviously like to be closer to the lead.   Matt is playing so good, I left myself in a good position where if I play good tomorrow, who knows what will happen.  
   
 Q.   How is your approach for this tomorrow?  
BEN CURTIS:   You just got the play with a hole by hole and shot by shot.   Just depends on what it's doing at the time, and just seemed like a lot of pins were up on the plateaus and stuff today, so it played very difficult, but, yeah, I'm pleased and happy.   Anytime you can shoot under par on a PGA TOUR, you're not going to hurt yourself.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT