THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT
June 5, 2009
Ben Curtis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Another 71. 
 BEN CURTIS: Yeah, it was okay. I think I had three bogeys today. There were a couple of bad shots, but other than that, it wasn't terrible bogeys. Played tough again. Greens are getting really firm and fast. 

 Q. Big thing is you're in position to make a move, tomorrow. 
 BEN CURTIS: Yeah, exactly. Any time around this place, shoot a couple of 69s, and you might win here. 

 Q. How much more difficult today? 
 BEN CURTIS: The greens are getting firmer. This morning it wasn't too bad, but the moisture and the coolness kind of kept us off. But it's getting firm now. 

 Q. Marino just said these are the best greens bar none that you guys play. Do you agree? 

 BEN CURTIS: Yeah, they are. They run the best. Fat, pretty smooth. They run pretty similar to the way they run at Augusta. 

 Q. You were getting out there on the front like Luke Donald yesterday. 
 BEN CURTIS: Well, I mean, I didn't hit a green for what seemed like forever to start the round. Then hit a couple and made a good putt on 6. Tried my best to three-putt 7 and then hit a good shot at 9. Obviously, 10 playing extremely tough. Hit a bad drive. Had to layup. 
 Yeah, it's not easy out there. Hit some good shots and hit some poor shots. 

 Q. Ben, as many times as you've played this tournament now, how have you learned, I guess, how to score? 
 BEN CURTIS: You've just got to be patient around here. You can't short-side yourself. If you stay away from doing that, you'll be all right. I did it about three or four times today, and I was able to get up and down a couple of times. Made it tough on myself. 

 Q. So the patient kind of player that you traditionally have been means that you should probably play well here? 
 BEN CURTIS: Yeah. Well, I mean --

 Q. If you hit your game. 
 BEN CURTIS: If I'm hitting it well. You've got to hit your irons well here. Still not doing that as well as I like. But putting well, so that helps. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT