BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 24, 2009
Ben Curtis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Take us through that, because it wasn't so easy until that point and then suddenly it just clicked. 
 BEN CURTIS: Yeah, I was struggling a bit there to be honest. Was driving it okay, but hit a bad drive on 12. Made a good par save. 
 And about 13 on, I started hitting some good shots, and then 15, I hit a fairly average 7-iron to 25, 30 feet and made that, and then the next hole, hit a nice little knock-down 9-iron in there to 15 feet. 
 And then the next hole, actually just hoping to get to the front edge, and hit a pretty good shot, thought I spun it a little too much, a 3-wood. It was like 280 to the hole and it ended up being perfect, about four feet away. 
 Then the last, kind of in between 2-iron and 3-iron and I went with the 2-iron, and kind of just tried to hit it too easy and pulled it. But made a great chip. So I was just trying to hit it six, eight, ten feet past and try to take front out of play and came out soft and perfect. 

 Q. Not many players play the last four holes 6-under par. 
 BEN CURTIS: It's the type of course where the last three especially, if you get in the fairway on 16, you can finish birdie, birdie, birdie easily. But yeah, not to go four threes in a row. 

 Q. Have you ever had a spell of scoring like that or in a finish? 
 BEN CURTIS: Definitely not in a finish. Maybe in the middle of a round or sometimes you start a round with a couple birdies and an eagle. Yeah, that was quite fun, actually.

 Q. As a way of sort of leading into the next tournament, nice to finish and then get prepared. Are you looking forward to visiting Kent again?
 BEN CURTIS: Well, I've been over there and haven't played, actually. Yeah, it's going to be fun. I haven't seen the course, but apparently the next three days are going to be awful. 

 Q. I've just seen the forecast for the tournament itself, it's like this Thursday onwards. 
 BEN CURTIS: Yeah, we'll see, hopefully everything will go well.

 Q. Would you assess this week as pretty good? 
 BEN CURTIS: Yeah, just felt like it was getting worse each day, but obviously the finish helped. Just started off really solid the first day. Second day, got off to a bad start, but you know, 2-over through six or whatever and got it back to a couple under, and then yesterday just never got it going really. 
 I was 3-over after nine, but birdied a couple of holes coming in, 18, 13 and 14. That was about it. Just seemed to get progressively worse each day. Nothing like it was oh my God, I can't hit a shot, but it wasn't as solid as it was, say, Thursday morning. 
 Nice to be in the Top-10. This is a great event and I always enjoy playing this course, especially when it gets conditions like this. When it's sloppy and wet, it's not as much fun. But when it's like this, it plays like a links course to be honest with just a little bit of rough around the greens. But you've got to be careful off the tee and careful approach shots, just how they are going to bounce, and so it plays pretty similar. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT