BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 21, 2009
Ben Curtis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Your thoughts on a round of 3-under par this morning?
 BEN CURTIS: I'm happy. Any time in the red is good around here. It's a little tricky golf course, there are some holes that can come up and catch you. 
 Like 16, looking to make birdie and end up making bogey. But I had a good finish and I had a couple eagle putts at the end. But happy to be in the red and get off to a good start.

 Q. You haven't played here since 2006, the golf course obviously changed a bit since then. What do you think of it now?
 BEN CURTIS: Well, it's good. I mean, there's a lot more bunkers than I remember, that's for sure. I think I played one year with the changes. 
 But yeah, like you said, there's a lot of bunkers and you've just got to kind of navigate around the golf course. But I hit a lot of drivers today. I felt good with driver in the hand and hit a lot of fairways and, you know, basically the highest I could have shot, but I like the way it was playing. 

 Q. Just chatting your caddie, says you never wake up till May, any idea why?
 BEN CURTIS: I grew up in the north, so this is about when our season started up in Ohio. May, usually June through September, October, is when I played the majority of my golf growing up. 
 Probably just reflects that still today. Just haven't really done well on the West Coast. It's usually a bit cold and the courses play a lot longer than the summer with the heat up. I like firm and fast fairways. 

 Q. You've entered The Race to Dubai, and you're playing more in Europe this time around, why did you make that decision?
 BEN CURTIS: I love playing over here in Europe. It's a great opportunity for me to travel and have some fun and get to play some different courses. And it helps the way they did it, because it's a month or two after the FedEx, so basically if I can just squeeze that few tournaments in before September, then after that, I can have a little bit of break and finish with The Race to Dubai. 
 It's going to be a lot of fun, and obviously I've got to play better to get up in there, but I've only played three tournaments. Hopefully I'll be in that Top-30 or 40 to go have some fun in Dubai. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT