THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
September 25, 2008
Ben Curtis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. The Ryder Cupers had such an emotional week. Do you think one of you have an advantage over the others?
 BEN CURTIS: I don't think so. I think we've had rest now, and I was able to get rest for this week, and the guys that have been sitting at home obviously -- we were playing all week last week and working on our games, so I think it's a wash-out, just 50/50. You can look at it either way.

 Q. Did you feel any emotional letdown?
 BEN CURTIS: Yeah, Monday and Tuesday was tough. I definitely wouldn't have wanted to be out here, that's for sure.

 Q. But now you were able to get it out of your system almost?
 BEN CURTIS: Yeah. To get over it and to get back into it, because it's not like you knew last-minute that you were coming here. It was one of those things you kind of had to play in for.

 Q. Do you think it's easier if you win to get over it as opposed to... 
 BEN CURTIS: Yeah, winning definitely makes it easier.

 Q. One last question about Anthony. He just lit it up today. You've seen him now up close, obviously. What's your impressions of him? 
 BEN CURTIS: Well, he's a great player. I mean, he's going to be around a long time. He's confident with what he's doing, and he seems to grasp the game pretty easily. He's got everything going for him, and it's kind of similar to what Tiger -- how he handles it. 
 Obviously for him, no one recognized him until he got out here. He didn't make the splash that Tiger made. We'll see how -- obviously he's going to be a great player for a long time. It's a bit unfair for him to say he's the next Tiger Woods, because he's got to compete against Tiger. 
 Hopefully someone will get to that level, but you just don't know.

 Q. Ernie is saying that he thinks you guys that played the Ryder Cup may not feel it right now, may not feel it tomorrow, might feel it on the weekend. Do you think there's any validity to that?
 BEN CURTIS: I mean, we get to sleep in every day. It's not like you're up at 7:00 playing 36 holes. I think we'll all be fine. It may hit a couple guys, but I don't see it being an issue. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT