DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
August 30, 2008
Ben Curtis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. What's with this course? You guys are killing it.   
 BEN CURTIS: I don't know, to be honest with you. I'm playing extremely well, but I think the greens are perfect, they're the perfect speed, and as soon as you hit it on-line it's going to go in.   
 I think, too, everybody is playing pretty well that's coming in here, as well. I think almost everybody made the cut last week here, and so guys are in the right form.  
  
  Q. You've had obviously some wonderful highlights in your career, especially the major championship. Here you are making the Ryder Cup team and you're in the hunt for the FedExCup and $10 million first prize. This has got to be pretty exciting stuff.   
 BEN CURTIS: Exactly. I'm just trying to ride the high and just playing extremely well, got a lot of confidence, and just not trying to worry about anything but trying to score well.   
  
  Q. You stand at 12-under par now. I take it that your confidence is soaring.   
 BEN CURTIS: Yeah, it's pretty high now, putting extremely well, making almost everything I'm looking at inside ten feet and hitting a lot of quality shots, and the ball seems to be going where I'm aiming. It's a lot of fun when you're doing that, and it just feels like you're trying to make as many birdies as you can.  
  
  Q. This great run you're on, to what would you attribute it?  
 BEN CURTIS: Well, I think I started to get in the swing a little bit. The swing changes I made over the winter, they've kind of progressively gotten a little bit more comfortable. You know, there's room for a lot more improvement. I need to not take it so far outside at the beginning, but it just feels comfortable right now, and I think the timing of the swing is helping. Just knowing that I can hit the shots that I want to hit is a good feeling.  
  
  Q. Not in any way to take away from your Open Championship, which was brilliant, but here you are in contention for the FedExCup, and you've got a Ryder Cup coming up just a couple weeks down the road. Your head has got to be in the clouds.   
 BEN CURTIS: Exactly. I'm trying to stay humble and just stay relaxed and not really focus on those kind of things, just trying to play good golf and just trying to prepare my game for the Ryder Cup, as well. I don't want to peak too early, but obviously it's always good to be playing well.  
  
  Q. Along the lines of remaining humble, respectfully, you had four feet, seven inches for eagle there on 18. That little putt fooled a lot of people today going left. What happened?   
 BEN CURTIS: Well, I knew it was going to go left, and when I got over it I felt like I was aimed to the left, and instead of backing off, which I have a hard time doing, I continued to try to push it in, and that doesn't work.   
 It's just one of those things that's just a misalignment, not so much the stroke as it was just aiming poorly.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT