WACHOVIA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 1, 2008
Ben Curtis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   BEN CURTIS: You know, I played pretty well. I got off to a pretty solid start even though I bogeyed 6, but I had three or four chances the first five holes to make something happen, but it didn't happen. But after that I played pretty solid. I had a good stretch of four holes where I could have made four birdies and I made three, so it was a good start.  
  
  Q. The conditions have been a little bit more difficult this afternoon because there aren't too many good scores coming out from the afternoon players.   
 BEN CURTIS: It was pretty gusty there. We were on 16 and it was pretty windy, and you get on 17 and there was hardly any breath of wind. It's one of those, you hit the ball at the wrong time and something bad could happen. But overall it was a pretty good day for me.  
  
  Q. Do you have any preferences with late-early tee times or early-late?  
 BEN CURTIS: No, I mean, I think you go through the year, and I think every week you'd like to go late-early because if you don't play well you can get out of town and get home. But yeah, there's no preference, really. I think it all evens itself out through the year.   
  
  Q. You've got the hometown colors and nice round to open things up.   
 BEN CURTIS: Yeah, it was good. I played pretty solid and made some birdies, and I only had one bogey, so that was nice.  
  
  Q. The afternoon numbers were a little higher than morning numbers. Were you guys playing in a little different conditions?  
 BEN CURTIS: You know, the course is drying out a little bit. The greens are probably speeding up, getting a little bit firmer, and obviously I think the wind, that's properly the majority of the reason why. One hole you would play it would be calm, then you'd get up on the next hole and it was really windy.  
  
  Q. With the fact that it is drying out and we're not expecting any kind of rain until Sunday, are you looking maybe at the scores being a little higher or do you think you can take advantage of the morning tomorrow?  
 BEN CURTIS: Well, I think tomorrow morning it's still going to be a little cool so there's going to be moisture on the ground, so obviously the first nine holes will be pretty soft, but then it's going to get firmer and firmer as the week goes on.  
  
  Q. How do you feel you played as far as tee to green?  
 BEN CURTIS: Yeah, I played well. It wasn't great, but it was good enough to get around and give myself seven or eight good chances for birdie.  
  
  Q. Do you notice the fans getting behind you with the colors?  
 BEN CURTIS: A little bit, yeah. Obviously this is one of the towns where they support the team really well, and it's good to be wearing this color and not something else.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT