WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 24, 2006
Ben Curtis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
Any bright spots?
BEN CURTIS:  Yeah, it's good to be back.  You want to be here every year.  You play at this level, this is a good bonus, and it's a good way to test your game because it's a great golf course, and you've got to do all parts of the game.  You've got to hit it well, drive it, hit the irons well and putt it well.

It just tests every part of your game, and that's what makes this course so good.
Q.  Any bright spots today?
BEN CURTIS:  Birdied two holes in a row.  That was it.
Q.  Which ones?
BEN CURTIS:  Nos. 2 and 3.  2 was into the wind, but 3 played really short, and it was a birdie hole today.  I had quite a few opportunities, just didn't make anything.
Q.  The experience of just being kind of home, back in the area where you went to college, people following you around?
BEN CURTIS:  Yeah, it's good.  A lot of familiar faces out there, and that makes it a little bit easier to play golf.  You know, I'm trying not to think about that, just trying to go out there and play like any other week and try and improve and get better and see what I can do, I think.

As far as my game, I'm hitting the ball good where I feel like I can contend.  I've just got to putt better.  If I putt like I should, like I normally would, if I keep hitting it this way, I'll be up there.  But I'm just not putting good, that's why I feel like I'm shooting the scores I am.
Q.  How long were your putts on 2 and 3?
BEN CURTIS:  They were a max of four feet.  Again, so I just need to make one or two of those 20 footers to
Q.  (Inaudible)?
BEN CURTIS:  It was probably ten feet.
Q.  Was there a certain distance of putts that was frustrating?
BEN CURTIS:  Just all of them, long ones, short ones.  About four feet in I feel okay.  I missed one on the last hole there, but, you know, four feet in I feel good.  It's just the long putts, I'm struggling with the speed, and the middle range, the ones you'd like one or two a round to make, I'm just not hitting good putts.
Q.  How much easier is the tournament this time as opposed to the last time I played here?  Last time was kind of hectic with the wedding and everything else.
BEN CURTIS:  Yeah, it was.  But I was playing at the time coming in here.  I'm playing well now, it's just the putter is not very good.  So sometimes it might be a good thing to have some distractions on your mind, and you don't really think about it.

I'm trying not to.  I feel like I'm improving.  It's going to take some time, but hopefully by this weekend I'll have my game in top shape.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT