THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE INSURANCE
June 1, 2012
Ben Curtis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  BEN CURTIS:   Well, we're used to it.   You get used to it over time.   It doesn't bother me.   It doesn't affect me.   Yeah, I mean, it's something you‑‑ first few years it takes adjusting to, but that's golf, so it's going to happen.   This time of the year in the summertime, you're going to start getting a lot more of them.  
   
 Q.   Is it pretty much expected when you come here, too?   
BEN CURTIS:   Well, I mean, yeah, I guess so.   But it's what it is.   The course is always in good shape and things like that, so that's‑‑ I mean, it's never really anything really long.   The last five, six years we've been pretty lucky, I think.   I know back when I was a kid there was a lot more it seemed like days washed out, but the last five or six years I don't think there's been too many where there's been a day washed out; more like today, just an hour or two and then move on.  
   
 Q.   The stuff with the phones out there, is it a big problem do you think?   
BEN CURTIS:   Well, I mean, not my groups, but obviously following Phil and Tiger and all those, I could see where it becomes an issue with Facebook and Twitter.   Everybody wants to get a picture seeing Tiger and all that good stuff.   But yeah, it's just a tough issue for the TOUR because some weeks it's not an issue and maybe this week it is, I don't know.   But people following me I'm not having an issue.  
   
 Q.   How distracting is that when someone takes a photo of you?  
BEN CURTIS:   It doesn't bother me, but 99 percent of the time I don't hear it.   But there's a lot of other stuff going on out here that I don't need to be worried about someone's camera going off.  
   
 Q.   With that said, it doesn't look like it's going to go away.   Kids today, they're born with a phone in their hand.   Does it come to the point where you have to get used to it?   
BEN CURTIS:   Well, I mean, they just put it into play, I think, this year or at the end of last year where you can take your phones back out.   It used to be you couldn't have them on at all.   If you had them on, then they would take them away.   But now they're just trying to discourage people from using them, but also they can allow them to get text messages if they're away from the kids or something like that.   I don't know, it might be something they need to address.   
Certain weeks more so than others.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT