CIALIS WESTERN OPEN
July 3, 2005
Ben Curtis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BEN CURTIS:  Well, I think I've got to take this into the next few weeks and try to build on it.  The confidence is coming back to where I want it.  I struggled a little bit off the tee and had a few fliers from the rough, and it just made it tough.  On top of that, I didn't really make anything.
Q.  The swings at the outset were unbelievable.
BEN CURTIS:  Yeah, it was crazy.  I mean, 2 and 3 and then 4 and 6, I mean, just back and forth.  But that's golf.  It's going to happen because there are some tough holes, and if you make a birdie like Jim did on 6 and I make a bogey, it's not like it's giving five shots to the field.  It's playing tough, and he hit a great shot in there.  You're going to have a few up and downs on a day like today.
Q.  12 was tough, but I guess in the end    (inaudible).
BEN CURTIS:  No, I mean, I was hoping to just hang in there and the last few holes I was trying to see if I could make a few birdies and get into 2nd place, but it just didn't work out that way.
Q.  Can you describe the feeling on the 1st tee playing in the last group?
BEN CURTIS:  Well, it actually felt pretty good.  I didn't really    wasn't really nervous.  I was just out there focusing, trying to do something good, and I felt like I could go out there and win this thing.  Got off to the start I wanted, just didn't finish well.
Q.  Did you get more fanfare in the Bears gear?
BEN CURTIS:  Definitely.  I wouldn't be a fan favorite if I was wearing another team, that's for sure.
Q.  Talk about Jim's game.
BEN CURTIS:  I think he just never gives up.  Like today, he was 2 over par after four or five holes and he could have very easily went the other way, but he hung in there, hit a lot of great shots and he just never let that phase him.  I think that's just why he plays so well and so solid is because he just goes and finds the ball and hits it from there.
Q.  (Inaudible).
BEN CURTIS:  Well, I hope so.  I'd like to get a few more Top 10s and then just build on    constantly playing four rounds and being in the hunt, I know I can compete out there, and I'm not going to compete every week, but I'd like to just have more opportunities.
Q.  Describe the difference between this week and other weeks.
BEN CURTIS:  Well, I think today was more like the rest of the weeks.  I mean, just struggled a little bit and didn't get anything going.

But the first three days just every part of my game came together.  Everything was solid; there was nothing great but nothing bad.
Q.  What were you feeling like after those first three holes?
BEN CURTIS:  I was always feeling pretty good, but I knew it was a long way to go yet, 15 holes left, and I was just concentrating on my own game and not worrying about anybody else.
Q.  (Inaudible).
BEN CURTIS:  Not really.  I think when I walked off that green I felt pretty good, to be honest with you.  To only be a shot behind, it could have been worse.  It could have been a 6 or 7 real easy, and to walk away with a 5, I was very happy.
Q.  (Inaudible).
BEN CURTIS:  I'm going over tonight actually to Ireland.  I'll just head over there and spend a week playing golf there and relaxing and getting ready for the British.
Q.  (Inaudible).
BEN CURTIS:  Oh, I figure    yeah, there's a little bit of doubts, but I figure if I keep working hard, you're going to get your opportunities.  There's going to be weeks you're playing well, and this is one of them, and hopefully it's the continuation of many more.
Q.  Are you going to Milwaukee?
BEN CURTIS:  I don't know.  When is the date?  No, I'm three weeks off after the British.
Q.  When you were lining up that putt on 9 for birdie, did you hear the crowd on 10 and did that affect that shot at all when I think Tiger got a birdie right when you were about to shoot it?
BEN CURTIS:  Yeah, I didn't hear anything.  I just hit a bad putt there.  I was just focusing on the line, and it just seems like when I read it right, I hit a bad putt, and if I misread it, I hit a good putt.  It was just one of those days.
Q.  What did you learn from this?
BEN CURTIS:  I learned that you just never give up and there's a possibility you can turn a round around.  Watching Jim being 2 over after 3 and he hung in there and turned it around in a hurry and made quite a few birdies because you just never know when the birdies are going to come and bogeys and doubles, so you've just got to stay patient.
Q.  Anything in particular in your swing you've been working on?
BEN CURTIS:  A little bit.  I'm just trying to get it set a little bit quicker than I normally do and just trying to get a good turn on it.  So it seems to work a little bit.  I've had a few good rounds recently but just haven't put the whole package together.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT