BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
May 27, 2005
Ben Curtis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Nice to see you playing over here in Europe.  The golf course suits you this week?
BEN CURTIS:  Well, I do.  You've got to think your way around the golf course.  You can't just step up on the tee and just bang driver out there.  So you've got to really think about what you're doing and get yourself in good position where you can hit a good approach shot.
Q.  It's quite fiery out there.  Do you actually have to land some balls short of the green?
BEN CURTIS:  I think definitely from long distances.  With the short irons, they are still stopping pretty good, but if you had 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 iron, you might have to think about it.  Especially with the wind being downwind and stuff, you're going to really have to think about it.  It's PLAYING more like a links course than most people would expect.
Q.  I did notice out on the golf course it looks like you're trying to get an early hinge.  What exactly are you working on?
BEN CURTIS:  I'm trying to get it a little outside the line for me.  I was getting it so far in here, it's coming back on the same line and just got stuck and couldn't hit any shots.  Just trying to get a little bit outside.  It feels like it's outside, but I don't know if it is.  Just trying to get that feeling where I can make some quality shots and work with the golf ball.
Q.  You've been working on that for the last three weeks, losing the ball to the right before that?
BEN CURTIS:  Yeah, I couldn't hit a draw if I tried.  Basically one of those things, if I tried to hook it, the more right it went.

So it's actually a good thing to be able to step up and know that you can work the ball both ways.
Q.  So I'm sure you're looking forward to the next two days.
BEN CURTIS:  Yeah, I am, hopefully I'll putt a little better tomorrow than I did today, and overall, I'm happy and pleased.
Q.  Sum up the day for us.
BEN CURTIS:  I didn't really hit the ball that well.  The first three holes I hit it well and didn't make anything.  You know, 4 through 9, I didn't hit that many good shots and made a few good par putts.  So it's just good to be at level par going in.  I figure once you get through 10, you've got 11 and 12, which are birdie holes, and 13, 14 are two tough holes, and 15.  But then, you know, you feel like you can make a few coming in, so I was just staying patient and not really worrying about it, just hopefully I get a few to drop for birdie.
Q.  What did you hit on  11?
BEN CURTIS:  11, driver, pitching wedge to about 15 feet past the hole.  Made that.
Q.  Did you have a chance at 12?
BEN CURTIS:  Yeah, I did.  I hit it down the right side in the fairway and had about 220 to the hole and hit it to the front right bunker.  I was very close to the lip, so I hit it to like eight feet.  I mean, I had a chance but I was disappointed with the second shot.
Q.  When you're in a group like that when all three of you are playing well, do you seem to sort of drive each other on?
BEN CURTIS:  It obviously can help, but it's tough when you    you know, you don't really think about it.  It's hard to say.  It just depends on how good you're playing yourself.  Obviously if you're playing bad, you're playing bad.  But obviously if you watch them, it could help you with certain shots.  I know today we were all kind of watching each other hit it because it's starting to get firm out there.  Someone's hitting first, you're kind of paying attention to what the ball is doing.  I think you learned a lot from that.
Q.  The details of last two holes, as well.
BEN CURTIS:  Just 3 wood over the back of the green on 17 and chipped it up to about four feet and made that.

And then on 18, I hit a bad drive left, but laid it up and it was in the semi rough and caught a flyer from there.  Hit it over the green where you don't want to go, but I took actually less club than I wanted to really hit and it still jumped on me.  It was just unfortunate there.  I hit a good chip, just hit a bad putt.  Overall it was a good day.
Q.  Thoughts for the next two rounds?
BEN CURTIS:  I'm looking forward to it.  I drove the ball much better today; shoot higher score, but drive it better.  I feel good.  Just work on the putter here a little bit and I'll be fine.
Q.  You have 2 and 14 where you had the trouble yesterday.
BEN CURTIS:  Paul and I were kidding, we hit the same club as yesterday, just luckily today it wasn't as downwind.  I kind of played a low shot in there and skipped it up to the top and luckily it stayed up there.  It's a tough hole, especially with it being downwind like that, because you've got to really be careful not going over, and plus you've got to worry about leaving it short as well.  If it's in the wind, you just take    maybe take one extra club and hit it.
Q.  Which club did you hit?
BEN CURTIS:  6 iron.
Q.  What's your schedule for Europe this year?
BEN CURTIS:  Just the British.  That's all I know.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT