THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT
June 5, 2004
Ben Curtis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BEN CURTIS:  I mean, obviously if I go out there and play like Ernie did today, anything can happen.  It's a tough golf course, especially when you feel like your putter wasn't quite there.  And i mis-hit a few iron shots, and that really cost me.  I think if I hit a good shot on 3 and 6, it could be a different story, but I didn't, and I have to move on.  I'm staying positive for tomorrow, even though I bogeyed No. 5, but it's one of those things that happened and happens once every four or five tournaments that you do.  You've just got to move on and keep your head up.
Q.  It's like a no-hitter.  You're on that bogey 3 stretch going back to the 12th on Friday last year through today, it's like 45 straight holes without a bogey.  Is that just unconscious out here?
BEN CURTIS:  What happened happened.  I had a good run going, and I knew going into it that one day this weekend I would make a bogey.  The odds are with you, and I didn't let it affect me.  Just keep going and keep my head up.
Q.  Do you have the type of attitude tomorrow that you can go in there and throw up six or eight birdies and try to get this thing done?
BEN CURTIS:  It all depends on how I putt the ball, I think.  If I continue to hit the ball well, I'll be fine, if I just make a few putts, get a few of them to go in.  I really felt like I hit some good putts today that didn't go in, and maybe tomorrow they'll drop.
Q.  Justin was saying the conditions kind of remind him of Augusta, the way the course was playing today.  Given that and the combined effects of you playing here and The Memorial tournament being close to home, do you come here tomorrow on Sunday with that extra emotion, I guess?
BEN CURTIS:  I think everybody that plays here -- I mean, you can look around, it looks like Augusta.  There's no mistaking about that.  It's a great golf course and it's a great tournament, but still, I think the guys know which ones are the majors.  And not to take anything away from this tournament, I believe it's the best tournament other than a major on Tour, but I'm just trying not to think about it, just go out there and play good golf and hopefully good things will happen tomorrow.  We've got another 18 holes to go and anything can happen.
Q.  You've still got to have a lot of positive vibes, given everything you've been able to accomplish this week and having the support of the community and obviously them wanting you to do so well tomorrow?
BEN CURTIS:  Exactly.  They're going to be behind me tomorrow.  And if I can go out there and get off to a good start, there are some birdie holes out there on the first few holes, and if I can make one or two there and get in a comfort zone and then try to play aggressive, and at the same time play smart, that's what I've been doing all week and today was just a little bit more bad luck.  It was just one of those things that I've got to keep my head up and keep looking forward.
Q.  If you had some putts fall this week, you would probably be leading this.  You had so many birdie tries.
BEN CURTIS:  Exactly.  I think I had putts that were makeable.  I think a lot of guys could say they hit a lot of greens, but a lot of them weren't makeable, but I had a lot of makeable putts.  I'm going to keep working on it and keep trying tomorrow.  One day they'll fall.  It could be tomorrow, could be a couple weeks' time or could be later on this year, so I hope one week I can put it all together, and hopefully it can start tomorrow.
Q.  Are you better off steady, mistake-free, close to the lead than having to go out and maybe with reckless abandon fire up and make eight birdies in one day?
BEN CURTIS:  I know I can do it.  It's just a matter of being able to get -- you've got to start off hot.  I think that's the thing.  I think a lot of times I'll let the round come to me, and if I can get  -- like today, birdieing the 2nd hole, and I felt like I should have birdied 5 and 7, as well, and I didn't, and if I can birdie those holes to get 3 or 4-under par off early I'll feel comfortable on the back nine and who knows what can happen.  That's the thing.  Everybody tells you you've just got to get on the streak and hopefully it can start from the beginning.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT