U.S. OPEN
September 4, 2010
Beatrice Capra
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. SHARAPOVA/B. Capra
  6-0, 6-0 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. I know it's real early for perspective, but are you able to share a thought about what you might take away from this whole past week and what you learned?  
 BEATRICE CAPRA: Yeah, it's been a really great experience. I mean, still, I mean, it's nothing but positives for me. I mean, I beat a top 20 player in the world. I had a really good first round.  
 I mean, playing against Maria in Arthur Ashe, yeah, I'd like to do better, but, you know, that was amazing.   
  
  Q. Did you feel the scoreline was a bit rough? You got a breakpoint a few times. Did you feel you deserved a couple of games here and there?  
 BEATRICE CAPRA: Yeah, I mean, I could have done better, and, you know, it was close in some of the games. Plus when you're like losing that bad, it's just in your head like just please let me win one game (Smiling.)   
 Then you get tight because you want to win a game. So it was really hard, but...   
  
  Q. How bad was the wind out there? Was it tough for you, 25-mile-an-hour winds?  
 BEATRICE CAPRA: It was really tough for me, not only because it was swirling when you're playing, but also, like, just focusing with that, like all the lets that we had and you know. Yeah, it was really rough today.  
  
  Q. Were you ever in that type of wind condition?  
 BEATRICE CAPRA: No, not really. Yeah, that was the worst.  
  
  Q. Had you ever been double bageled before?  
 BEATRICE CAPRA: Yeah, like six months ago, actually. (Laughter.)  
 It's nothing new. But, you know, before I was -- it was actually earlier this year, and, you know, this girl was ranked out of the top 100. You know, now I'm getting -- and then I worked my way through, and now I'm beating top 100 players.  
 So, yeah, I got double bageled, but, you know, now I know what I need to work on to compete at that level.  
  
  Q. What do you need to work on?   
 BEATRICE CAPRA: Um, you know, definitely my serve and definitely, you know, forehand and staying in the rallies longer. I mean, against those type of players you can't, you know, give away easy mistakes. You have to make them work for every point, and I just thought that I made a lot of errors today.  
  
  Q. You've had a taste of center court and center stage, really, this last week. What does that make you believe about your future?  
 BEATRICE CAPRA: Um, yeah, I mean, this whole tournament has been amazing, and I think I can only go up from here. You know, I'm gonna work hard on what I need to work on, and hopefully I'll be able to improve.  
  
  Q. How has it changed the way you're thinking about what's to come and how you'll approach it?  
 BEATRICE CAPRA: Um, well, before I was gonna start playing just a lot more pro tournaments, and, you know, I just really want to get more matches under, you know, with that level of, you know, like the 50,000, the 75ks. That's what I was doing before, even before this tournament.  
 So, yeah, I don't think anything's gonna change, really.  
  
  Q. You said something the other day about your plans for college. You're putting it off a year to decide. Can you explain that? I didn't understand.   
 BEATRICE CAPRA: Yeah, I'm just deferring a year to play some pro tournaments.  
  
  Q. What are your thoughts on how you think that's gonna go? I mean, why wouldn't you just go to college now?  
 BEATRICE CAPRA: Um, you know, I'd like to, um, improve my professional ranking a little bit. And so by the time I go into college, you know, they said that they're gonna allow me to play some pro tournaments while I'm at college.   
 Even if I just go to a semester of college and leave, I'm always able to go back. So I think that's definitely a plus.  
  
  Q. Can you describe sort of the very best of what Maria does, her ability, compared to the typical player you've played to this point? Is there a big gulf between Maria's power and ability to handle big points, or is it kind of a logical progression from the players you've been playing?  
 BEATRICE CAPRA: I mean, she's definitely really solid. She's, I mean, obviously the best player I've played against. (Laughter.)  
 But, you know, she's not gonna give you anything. She's just so even the whole time; whereas the past few players I've played against they're really up and down and I had my opportunity to, you know, get back into the match and stuff.  
 But she doesn't give you anything, so you really have to work for your point.  
  
  Q. You said you admired her mental toughness. Did you feel that toughness out there today?  
 BEATRICE CAPRA: Yeah. I mean, even when I had some break points that I could have won, you know, she didn't give me anything.  
 It's really intimidating, actually. (Laughter.) You know, even though she's beating me that badly she's still so focused.  
  
  Q. You probably envisioned as a kid, I'm sure you imagined what it's like on center court like this. Can you talk about what you dreamed about compared to the reality of it? What was it like for you compared to what you expected?  
 BEATRICE CAPRA: You know, I never even thought I was gonna play this tournament, so just being in the tournament was amazing. But, you know, playing on Arthur Ashe in front of that many people, I'll definitely remember that for the rest of my life.   
 And, you know, winning on Grandstand, that was one of the best moments of my life. So it's been a really positive experience.  
  
  Q. Maria has a reputation of course for being very loud. Did that bother you at all?  
 BEATRICE CAPRA: Not at all. You know, I think -- I actually didn't think she was that loud today, but, you know, I think just trying to focus with everything, with the wind and the crowd and just being on Arthur Ashe for the first time, you know, that was enough for me.  
  
  Q. The other day you spoke about how much you looked up to Maria and that you had never had the chance to meet her. Can you describe any interaction that you had with her before or after the match today?  
 BEATRICE CAPRA: Before the match, you know, she would just walk past me and kind of like give me a glare, which is kind of intimidating. (Laughter.)  
 You know, after the match when we shook hands, she was really nice. She said, Great tournament. Keep up the hard work. You know, I think she's a really nice person. Yeah.  
  
  Q. What did that mean to you?  
 BEATRICE CAPRA: It meant a lot. It really meant a lot to me that she said that. She didn't have to say anything. But, I mean, it encourages me, I guess.  
  
  Q. A lot of people have been talking about a trend in women's tennis that sees that right now we don't have as many 14 years old, 18 year olds being able to take on the older women. The trend started with the Williams sisters, and Kim Clijsters has talked about women returning to the gym, stronger, bigger women. What do you think of that trend?  
 BEATRICE CAPRA: Um, yeah, I mean, I think the better players right now, I mean, yeah, they're definitely a lot bigger. But they're definitely a lot older and they have more experience than the younger players.   
 I mean, the younger players, they get into these Grand Slam tournaments and, you know, it's difficult, like for me today. I mean, playing on Arthur Ashe it's just overwhelming, of course.  
 But, you know, I think experience plays a big role in all of these tournaments. You know, I think a lot more girls are gonna start doing better in older age.  
  
  Q. Has Crissy given you much advice? And if so, what would you say is the best piece of advice that she's given you?  
 BEATRICE CAPRA: Well, before the match she said to enjoy the moment, but that was kind of tough today. (Laughter.)  
 Um, you know, just control my emotions, don't ever give up. I know she was really good with that. And, you know, move my feet when I get nervous. And she always has the right things to say for me when I'm feeling nervous. She's always helped out a lot.  
  
  Q. Is all of this a little bit unreal to you in some way? Could you talk about that?  
 BEATRICE CAPRA: Yeah. I mean, it's -- I worked hard my entire life. So, I mean, I feel like it's finally all coming together a little bit. You know, I'm happy that all of my hard work is finally paying off.   
 So I knew that I could do it eventually, but I never thought it would happen right now so soon. It really has been an amazing experience.  
  
  Q. Along the lines of what she was asking about the bigger, more muscular women, I mean, did I understand that you gained like 20 pounds of muscle or something in the last -- have they tried to bulk you up in the last few years?  
 BEATRICE CAPRA: Well, yeah. When I first came to the Evert Academy I had lost -- I got sick and I lost a lot of weight. I went -- I lost like 20 pounds. You know, I was getting injured a lot, and I just couldn't physically keep up with anybody on the court.  
 So, yeah, when I came to the Evert Academy, that was the main focus, was to get me stronger again. You know, they've really helped me build a lot of muscle.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about going forward? Will you be doing it even more? Do you feel like you'll have to add more bulk?   
 BEATRICE CAPRA: Yeah, definitely. I do need to eat a little more and get bigger, I guess. I think that would definitely help me a lot.  
 But, yeah, I mean, the top players, for sure, they're a good 15 to 20 pounds heavier than me, probably.  
  
  Q. Did you to talk to Melanie before the match today or in the last couple of days?   
 BEATRICE CAPRA: After I won my second round, Melanie sent me the nicest text ever. She said if I needed help with anything or if I needed any advice, just come to her, and she's really happy for me. Melanie and I are really good friends.  
 And I wanted -- I should have talked to Melanie before the match, because I was wondering -- I was like, Was Melanie this nervous before she played? (Laughter.)  
 I didn't get the chance to, but I probably should have. Yeah.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about your support system? You've mentioned the Evert Academy. You mentioned your family before and other players. Can you talk about that? Because you seem very grounded, you know, self-aware and very positive. Can you talk about who's sort of behind you?  
 BEATRICE CAPRA: My entire family is behind me. They were all here today. I have a lot of -- my two best friends actually, it's their first year from college -- or to college, and they flew over to come watch me play today, which was really nice.  
 You know, they all helped me get through everything, you know, the rough times and the good times. I definitely think having, you know, my whole family together really helps me stay grounded.  
  
  Q. A year from now, if some young player came to you and said, Hey, I'm going out on match for a big match in the third round, what advice would you give to her?  
 BEATRICE CAPRA: You know, obviously if they're on Ashe, they've done -- they've worked hard and they've done so well to, you know, get there. I would just say, Remember that. Remember how hard you've worked, and just stay focused, just, you know, every point. Don't let the crowd or anything, you know, lose your focus.  
  
  Q. John Evert said something, other than the bulking up, you're too much of a perfectionist and you're afraid to make errors, and that they're trying to get you out of that to be more just a little freer and more aggressive. Can you talk about the evolution of that, your mentality, how you've had to change a little?  
 BEATRICE CAPRA: Yeah, I mean, I definitely need to do that. Like today, instead of worrying about getting a game, I probably should have thought what I needed to improve on -- or, you know, working towards that. Whenever I've gone out onto the court just looking to improve, then I've played a lot better.  
 You know, I definitely need to start making more risks in my matches. So I think that will help me improve. You know, sometimes I get frustrated a lot, because not everything is going right.   
 Definitely today with the wind and the crowd and the lets, I mean, I was getting frustrated. But, you know, I think I do need to start letting all that stuff go, and it will help me get better.  
  
  Q. Have you decides whether you're going to play the juniors tournament?  
 BEATRICE CAPRA: Um, you know, I don't think I will. I have mixed doubles today, and I'm really mentally fried.   
 But I would have loved to play the juniors, so I'm really sorry I'm not.   
  
  Q. Did you think power was the biggest difference out there today?  
 BEATRICE CAPRA: Yeah. I mean, she definitely overpowered me. But, I mean, you know -- yeah, she overpowered me.   
  
  Q. You've described your dad's reluctance to attend your matches. Can you talk about what his role was today? Was he here, and what he might have said to you afterward?  
 BEATRICE CAPRA: He was here. He came up last night. I was really happy he was gonna come see me.   
 I haven't seen him yet, but, you know, I'm sure -- my dad's always been, you know, my No. 1 supporter. He's always proud of me, no matter if he doesn't watch my matches or not. I'm sure he's gonna be really happy for me.  
  
  Q. Your whole family was here. Who was here?  
 BEATRICE CAPRA: My mom, my dad, my sister's over there.   
 My grandparents are here. My aunt actually from Mexico flew over to come see me.  
  
  Q. Nobody from Italy?  
 BEATRICE CAPRA: Ah, well, my aunt is from Italy, but she moved -- yeah. But nobody flew over from Italy. (Laughter.)  
  
  Q. You said something about one semester of college, and then you can go back. Is it my understanding you went to college for a semester already? I didn't follow that.   
 BEATRICE CAPRA: Yeah, I think I will go for a semester, and then if I want to leave, I will.   
  
  Q. Where are you leaning towards college-wise?  
 BEATRICE CAPRA: Duke.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT