UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
February 25, 2018
Richard Pitino
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Purdue - 84, Minnesota - 60
RICHARD PITINO: Well, credit to Purdue.  They're a terrific team.  You know, they've got a lot of talent, and they execute well.  Tough place to play.
We'll learn from it and move on.
Q. The first half, obviously Nate carried you, but you cut it to single digits there at the half.  You're down 16.  I mean, this is a team that's tried to fight all season shorthanded, and they did in the first half.
RICHARD PITINO: Yeah, we're really struggling to score, and then I took Dupree out.  He just was not moving well as all.  Bakary has got the flu.  So when all things are not clicking for us, very, very challenging.  To put it all on Nate, I thought Isaiah was doing some good things.  So we're easy to guard right now.
Q. In that first half, Nate obviously is a guy that in the Iowa game, it seemed like he gave everything he has.  Wisconsin game he had, I think, a lower leg injury, right leg injury.  This is a team that just before the Big Ten Tournament, are you just trying to get as healthy as you can to hopefully try to scrap together a win if you can?
RICHARD PITINO: Try to get some rest.  Hopefully Bakary gets whatever it is he has out of his system.  Nate's shin is bothering him from the Wisconsin fall.  Dupree obviously is hobbled.  But if you talk about it, it's an excuse, so...
Q. Just talk about Mathias and what made him so difficult to contain tonight.
RICHARD PITINO: Well, you've got to take away the attempt with him.  We struggled with that.  Couple that with I tried to go small just to get a little bit more offense, and he's got good size, and he was shooting over us.  You know, so we're struggling with length right now.  When we go really small with Isaiah, and I pulled Dupree out, so if it's Isaiah, Jamir and Nate, we're small.  Also they run good stuff for him, and he can really knock down shots, as well.
Q. The Big Ten Tournament, you know going in that you have the 11th seed, playing the 14th seed.  Just going into that game, what are you going to tell your team?
RICHARD PITINO: We're just going to get some rest and we're going to prepare for whoever we're going to play.  We don't know who we're going to play.  I think we find out tonight, and then game plan for that, and that's really all we'll do.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT