AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: INDIANS v YANKEES
October 9, 1998
Dwight Gooden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Do you find yourself trying to stay calm mentally because you're so fired up because
it's them and you haven't won a postseason game?

DWIGHT GOODEN: Not at all. At this time of year, going to Spring Training this is what
it's all about, playing in October. No doubt it would be special playing against the
Yankees team from New York -- played my whole career in New York. Once you take the mound,
they're just another ball club. You might not believe that, but that's what it is. That's
how I have to approach it. Just having a lot of fun with it and this is what it's all
about.

Q. What is your frame of mind considering what happened to you last Wednesday?

DWIGHT GOODEN: What happened was unfortunate, hopefully it doesn't happen tomorrow, but
to me that's over with. We got to the next level, which we wanted to do. Hopefully I will
-- this time I'll be out there a lot longer.

Q. When a team let's you go, how long does it take you to get over the fact that, I
want to prove them wrong?

DWIGHT GOODEN: Well, in my situation last year there was a lot of things that happened.
I talked to Mr. Steinbrenner during that time before my option was officially not picked
up and there was still opportunity for me to come back. But I just thought as a player at
that time it was time for me to move on. Lastly, I didn't -- still felt I had a lot to
give to that ball club. Joe Torre thought differently, which you have to respect that,
it's his club. Leaving -- the only thing that was tough for me leaving was that I was
leaving the city of New York where I had been my whole career.

Q. Was one of the reasons you signed with Cleveland the fact that you thought you might
get a chance to play the Yankees in the postseason this year?

DWIGHT GOODEN: Not necessarily the Yankees. At this time in my career to me it's all
about winning. Again, I'm still looking for that first postseason win. Anytime an
organization like the Cleveland Indians gives you a chance to join, you have to jump on
it. Good fit for myself. First class organization. I have known John Hart since '81 when I
was in high school, a lot of guys on the team as well. Just a situation that I thought
would fit the player that I am at this time in my career.

Q. Talk about '88 and what you remember the most about that postseason experience?

DWIGHT GOODEN: Probably the one thing that sticks out the most is that I think as a
team as a whole I think we kind of looked passed the Dodgers that year, looking more at
Oakland because we had so many against the Dodgers during the regular season. But
unfortunately they knocked us out.

Q. Does the name Mike Scioscia mean anything to you, do you have nightmares or anything
like that, too long ago?

DWIGHT GOODEN: Too long ago. At that time I didn't have nightmares, but even at that
time, that was no big deal.

Q. Hernandez as a developing pitcher, he studied you and payed a lot of attention to
your motion particularly. Do you see some of the things he's incorporated from you
particularly as a young pitcher -- what do you think about him in general as a pitcher?

DWIGHT GOODEN: Definitely like everybody else looking forward to watching him pitch
firsthand. Maybe the high leg kick, too old now to get my leg up that high. He has good
stuff and anytime you see a pitcher at this level and anytime they analyze you, it makes
you feel good.

Q. Make you feel old?

DWIGHT GOODEN: Makes you feel old, but he's probably my age, you know.

Q. How big a piece of the puzzle would it be for you at the end of your career to want
to have that postseason win?

DWIGHT GOODEN: It would be big. I would look forward to it. A lot things happened in my
career that I really didn't expect to happen. I remember making the team in '84 when David
Johnson told me I made the ball club at that time. I remember telling my father I wanted
to have a long career and stay healthy and have a good career, but I had no numbers set
and no goals. Obviously a lot of things happened for me with awards, even the World
Series. That's probably the only thing missing. Get the other thing accomplished; that
would be the one thing I would like have to also, even if it's just one.

Q. How much of a factor is tonight's game and the amount of pressure you have to deal
with tomorrow. If the Indians lose tonight, do you put more pressure on yourself tomorrow?

DWIGHT GOODEN: Well, you try not to. You try to take a game, but obviously you'd like
to get that win tonight and build as big a lead as you can going into Saturday's game. I
think it will be the same amount of pressure either way you look at it for myself.

Q. What do you think of "El Duque" watching your wind up and analyzing it as
much as he does, any chance you're going to come out in the first inning and do something
different to screw him up?

DWIGHT GOODEN: I'd like to and if it was regular season I probably would. Tomorrow I
just want to get past that first one-third of the game.

Q. What does it make you feel like that when the Yankees visiting Strawberry the one
thing he said, whatever you guys do, you've got to beat Doc?

DWIGHT GOODEN: Actually, that was a good sign, let you know he was in good spirits
because that's his team now. So for them to get to the next level they have to get through
us so that was good, let me know he was feeling good about himself and that's good to
hear.

Q. Last year when Mariano came into the game, did you feel you were going to get that
first postseason win, close it out and what were you thinking when Alomar hit the homerun?

DWIGHT GOODEN: Last year, anytime Mariano came in the game he figured it was over. Got
spoiled watching him in '96. Like last year, he was just guaranteed. When Sammy hit the
homerun for me personally it was like, there's another opportunity but at that time you
try to get it from a personal standpoint and hope we're going to win the ball game. Once
that game was over it was tough to swallow because we lost more so than him giving up the
homerun.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT