AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: INDIANS v YANKEES
October 5, 1998
Dwight Gooden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Can you tell us about Shane Spencer, how you feel about him and what he is doing for
the Yankees and do you remember him when you were pitching for the Yankees?
 
 DWIGHT GOODEN: Well, actually I saw him last year a little bit in spring training and
last year when I was in Columbus rehab in Triple A, I got to play with him a little bit.
He is definitely a power hitter. We are just trying to figure out, I guess; now waiting
first-time to go guys around the league, whether it is a hitter or pitcher, you try to
pick up the weaknesses and right now he hasn't shown much of what his weaknesses are. 
 
Q. Obviously everyone knows about the connection between you and Darryl. Can you talk
about if, you know, one the connections between Bartolo Colon? Curiously on Saturday he
had Darryl's number on his cap.
 
 DWIGHT GOODEN: Well, I think with that - Ray Negrone over here with the Yankees did a
lot of work with the Yankees as well as myself and Darryl, now he is working a lot with
Bartolo. I think that had a lot to do with it. I guess Ray talking to Bartolo a lot about
Darryl and that probably had a lot to do with it putting the number on the hat. 
 
Q. How much of a disappointment is it for you to not start at Yankee Stadium?
 
 DWIGHT GOODEN: Well, I don't really think it is a disappointment. Obviously no secret,
I love pitching here. I have played thirteen years here in New York. I want an opportunity
to pitch; whether it is here or Cleveland really doesn't matter. Obviously I would have
preferred to pitch here, but it is not a disappointment at all. 
 
Q. Have you had a chance to see Darryl and could you comment on the outpouring of
affection for him since the situation developed?
 
 DWIGHT GOODEN: Well, actually when we saw him the last time we were here talking a
little bit, at that time he mentioned about having some pain in his stomach and he wanted
to get checked out, but he wasn't sure he could get through it. Talked to him Thursday
over the phone when I was in Boston, haven't talked to him since the surgery. I am going
to try to go by tomorrow before I come to the ballpark. 
 
Q. Comment on the incredible affection outpouring and compassion for him?
 
 DWIGHT GOODEN: Well, any time you see a guy -- I met Darryl in '83, you know, we became
very close after that, especially the time we spent with the Mets and you care more for a
guy off the field than you do on the field because baseball is going to be here. We have
to live our life after that. So any time you see a good friend like that go through
something like that, it is very touching and you feel for that person. 
 
Q. Talk about the role, whether you are going to be in the bullpen or the No. 4 guy or
do you know?
 
 DWIGHT GOODEN: Well, talking to Mike Hargrove he told me today, I guess tomorrow and
the following day Wednesday I will be in the bullpen, if needed; hopefully not - that
means starter didn't do too well. If that goes well, then I will be the Game 4 starter. 
 
Q. You have pitched 22 pitches, but looking back on that - do you see how important
those 22 pitches were - what happened to you afterwards might have been?
 
 DWIGHT GOODEN: Well, couple of guys came in after that game and said they needed that
to get them pumped up or whatever, but again I don't want to make a living pumping up guys
that way. I rather do it between the lines. 
 
Q. Do you think it will be strange pitching against the Yankees? Can you put yourself
in that situation and think about what it will feel like?
 
 DWIGHT GOODEN: You know, the first time we came here to play them, obviously didn't get
to pitch, but you replay it in your mind how you are going to face different guys; you go
over different situations. And you look forward to the buildup, but I think once you take
the field, then they just becomes another ballclub. 
 
Q. Tomorrow night when they announce the teams you are not going to be the pitcher, but
you will go out on the line there. What do you think your reception will be?
 
 DWIGHT GOODEN: I really don't know. Either way it will be great. The fans here have
been - I mean, unbelievable supporters for me through the ups and downs, many times where
they probably could have turned their back, maybe they should have at times, but they
stood with me. I still receive great fan mail from the fans here in New York; just going
out on the field will be very special to me. 
 
Q. Would you rather get a playoff win against the Yankees or another team at this
point?
 
 DWIGHT GOODEN: Yankees now because I mean, once we get through them, then we are on our
way. 
 
Q. I mean, does it mean more?
 
 DWIGHT GOODEN: Not at all. In this situation it is all about winning no matter who the
opposing team is. It is nothing personal. You just try to get to that next level. Right
now that means we have got to get through the Yankees. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT