THE RYDER CUP
September 29, 2012
Jason Dufner
Zach Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You and Zach had it rolling again this morning, came away with another win; can you talk about your morning match?
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, we played really well.   Probably could have put a couple more up there, but we kind of hung in there.   It was another good day for us in.

Q.   This afternoon you started off hot and ran into a buzzsaw at the end?
JASON DUFNER:   We got off to a nice lead.   We were a couple up there at the turn and then just made six birdies in a row.   Cut into our lead a little bit there and made some nice clutch putts, so all in all, a really nice match.   Wish we could have got at least half a point, but when guys play like, that there's not much you can do.

Q.   You still have a good lead going into tomorrow, going into your first Sunday of singles play, can you talk about what you're thinking now going into tomorrow?
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, happy with the position the team is in.   Looking forward to getting some points early and trying to get to that magic number, 14 1/2, it should be fun tomorrow.   A little different, no teammate out there playing with me, just me and the guy on the other team.   A little bit more used to what we do out on the PGA TOUR, so looking forward to a nice Sunday. 
ZACH JOHNSON:   They birdied the last six holes, he birdied the last five holes.   It wasn't like we gave it to them, either.   We had opportunities.   We missed a couple putts but made some putts, too.   That was just a buzzsaw at the end.   Nothing you can do, just tip your hat, shake his hand, and the beauty of where we're at is we are up 10‑6 I guess.   We were up two going into today, so we have doubled the lead as far as I know, if my math is correct.   You know, I'm disappointed that we lost the match, there's no doubt about that.   But it's just one match.   This is a team effort. 

Q.   You won two matches already. 
ZACH JOHNSON:   Yeah, we played our hearts out.   Like I said we ran into a‑‑ the back nine, we ran into Ian Poulter unfortunately. 

Q.   What did you hit into 17? 
ZACH JOHNSON:   7‑iron. 

Q.   An extraordinary day out there for you though? 
ZACH JOHNSON:   It was fantastic.   I could not have enjoyed it anymore.   You know, playing with duff, a good friend, and I felt so much more loose when I played my own ball today, I don't know how many birdies I made but I made quite a few, I probably could have made more.   So having him in your back pocket, and that sort of thing, it felt great.   I enjoyed it.   This is why we practice.   This is why we play.   It's shots like 16 and 17, 18, it's why you play. 

Q.   So it wasn't so much losing as much as anybody else winning? 
ZACH JOHNSON:   I would have to agree with you.   We lost one down, it's not like we gave it to them. 

Q.   And you birdied the last two coming in. 
ZACH JOHNSON:   And we birdied the last two coming in.   We birdied the last three out of five. 

Q.   Despite the defeat, was that an exciting match? 
ZACH JOHNSON:   Yeah, drama, no doubt about it.   There was excitement there.   It was quality golf shots being had, quality putts holed, and it stinks to lose.   You have to tip your cap when you run into a buzzsaw like that. 

Q.   With ten points on the board‑‑
ZACH JOHNSON:   Big picture, we have a full day tomorrow. 
They came back and birdied the last six holes, and Ian birdied the last five holes.   We birdied the last three out of five but it wasn't good enough.   Just some unbelievable putts being made the last, I'd say, four or five holes.   You've got to tip your cap and shake their hand, because they played great.   Both of them played great.   Ian played phenomenal.   Big picture, though, we are up 10‑6 and we have one more day.

Q.   For you personally, do you feel better about the team being 4‑up or right now are you more disappointed about losing your match? 
ZACH JOHNSON:   Oh, I'm not here for myself.   I'm here for my nation, my team, my captain and for certainly these fans and the guys I'm playing with.   It has nothing to do with my match.

Q.   How would you explain why you guys have a four‑point lead? 
ZACH JOHNSON:   We have a good team.   We have got chemistry, we have got camaraderie, we have depth, we have talent, we want it.   I think we are playing loose, though, enjoying it.   This is as good a competition as you'll find, so all of the above. 

Q.   What do you expect tomorrow? 
ZACH JOHNSON:   Expect a crazy day.   A good, crazy day, fun crazy day.   I expect the United States Team to come out and play their golf ball and try to control their golf ball and not worry about the scoreboard. 

Q.   What's been the loosest moment so far?   You said you guys were loose. 
ZACH JOHNSON:   I don't know if there's been one moment in particular.   We are enjoying it.   We have got three rookies I think and they blend or mesh as good‑‑ four, pardon me.   I forget Webb‑‑ we played in Presidents Cup. 
All our wives are good friends, players are good friends, camaraderie is terrific and we are hitting quality shots.   I love ping‑pong, there's no doubt about that, that's one of my favorite things.   I beat Kuch once this week, once, and it's an asterisk. 

Q.   Have you beat Tiger? 
ZACH JOHNSON:   Oh, yeah. 

Q.   Phil? 
ZACH JOHNSON:   It's pretty close.   Ping‑pong's fun.   I would say that the golf is why we're here and we want to play.   This competition, that's been the most fun. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT