DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 1, 2012
Jason Dufner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about another solid day for you.   You hit it maybe a little bit better than yesterday.   Would you agree?  
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, pretty similar.   My irons were a little bit better today.   I wasn't able to take advantage of any par‑5s, so hopefully I get that a little bit better on the weekend.   But two pretty good days.  
   
 Q.   You were stretching a lot out there with your hamstrings, putting your leg up on the golf bag, even laying down behind No.6.   What's going on there?  
JASON DUFNER:   My right leg is a little tight, hamstring into my lower back.   It's been a couple weeks, but I'll get some therapy and get on with it tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   It doesn't seem to bother you too much.   
JASON DUFNER:   Not too bad.   It's a little restrictive on my down swing a little bit.   It creeps in there after about 12 or 13 holes, so going to keep stretching and trying to work it out.  
   
 Q.   You led the PGA TOUR in scoring average first and second round.   Why have you been so consistent the first two days?   
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, the game has just been really good.   Unfortunately I've had some poor weekends, but I've had some good weekends, too.   You know, it's just kind of one of those things, Thursday and Friday have been pretty good for me, so hopefully that will roll over to the weekend.   
   
 Q.   And lastly, one non‑golf question:   Analyze tonight's Auburn game for us.   
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, I'll be rooting hard for Auburn.   Hopefully they can pull a victory off.   They've still got a pretty young team.   Hopefully they can get a win on the road in Atlanta.   
   
 Q.   Talk about your round in general today.   
JASON DUFNER:   Pretty low‑stress round, had maybe one opportunity to make a bogey and I made a nice six‑footer, so I played pretty solid the last two days.  
   
 Q.   What's been working well for you?  
JASON DUFNER:   Everything has been pretty good this week, other than the fact that I played the par‑5s even so far.   I've been hitting a lot of fairways, fairways are kind of generous out here, so that helps me out a little bit.   The iron play, second shots I was pretty good today.   Everything has been pretty good.   
   
 Q.   Any difference between morning and afternoon rounds for you?  
JASON DUFNER:   You know, it was pretty similar today.   The wind was kind of up when we first started on 10, so we had a little bit of wind to deal with yesterday.   I think the greens were a little bit firmer this morning than they were yesterday afternoon.   I think the golf course is kind of getting a little bit firmer and faster.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT