WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 2, 2012
Jason Dufner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Just overall your round?  
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, nice way to start the week.   You know, 3‑under is pretty solid on this golf course.   I made a couple bogeys on the par‑5s, which I wish I could have back, but I kind of balanced it out with a couple nice saves and a birdie on 9, which is a pretty difficult hole.   Overall solid day, fairways, greens, and looking forward to the next three days.  
   
 Q.   Everybody is talking about how great the greens are.   Can you talk about how pure they are, what you see out there?  
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, the greens are really nice.   They're really consistent with their speed and the way the ball rolls on them is really true.   One of the big keys is to kind of stay below the holes out here.   You get above the holes with as fast as they are and as much slope as you've got out here, you can get a little defensive.   I think pretty much all the birdies today I was underneath the hole and was able to give it a good aggressive runs.  
   
 Q.   Does it change your tee to green strategy?  
JASON DUFNER:   Not too much.   I don't see that changing too much.   If the weather stays kind of like it is, it'll be the same.   It's kind of playing a little bit firmer and faster than it did the first couple days off the tee, so the course is playing a little bit shorter than it did during the practice rounds, which is nice.   I was kind of concerned being my first time out here having a lot of 4‑ and 5‑irons in.  
   
 Q.   Have you played Kiawah yet?  
JASON DUFNER:   I haven't had a chance to sneak over.  
   
 Q.   16, you looked like you were frustrated and then all of a sudden you turned it around.   What was different there between the back end of that first nine and going into the last back nine?  
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, just a little frustration to make a bogey on a par‑5 and then I got a wedge in my hand on 18 with a perfect number and the ball flies a little bit farther.   So a little anger there, I guess you would say, for me, just situations you feel like you're looking at birdies and I'm walking away with bogeys.   It's hard to compete and win out here when you're doing those things.   But I kept in my mind that I've been playing pretty good and felt pretty good with my game, and maybe I could pick some up coming in.  
   
 Q.   You're still feeling that way?  
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, definitely.   My game feels really good.   I think this is a pretty good golf course for me.   You've got to keep it in the fairways, got to kind of control your distances, keep it underneath hole locations so you can be aggressive with your putting.   It's been a nice mix for me out here at Firestone.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT