THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2012
Jason Dufner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. That last putt looked like it was going to go in.   
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, maybe a little bit.   I think that the greens get a little bit slower later in the day.   You've got to adjust to that a little bit.   I had three or four putts that I felt like were going to go in and just kind of tailed off right at the end.   That's all part of playing over here and little nuances you pick up as you go along.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, you know, I think the golf course was pretty scorable today.   The wind was down, especially when I played.   The golf course was pretty soft.   So I felt like if I could get it in the fairway or the bunkers you could have some opportunities to score and make some birdies.   I was fortunate that I played really well and had good conditions to play well in.  
   
 Q.   How much fun is it to be in contention here?  
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, it's nice.   It's the first time for me in this event.   There's a lot of history in this event.   It's an event I'd like to play well in.   I've been disappointed with my past performances here.   
So it's good heading into the weekend to have a chance to win.   We'll see with what's in store with weather and how the field plays and how the golf course plays.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, I think the Americans travel pretty well over here to play this event.   Probably has to do more with good players travel well anywhere they play.   So there's a lot of good Americans playing right now, a lot of guys on top form.   So it wouldn't surprise me to see an American take this event.   
We've got a lot of guys playing well right now and guys up on top of the leaderboard as you can see.  
   
 Q.   Are you aware the forecast on Sunday may be 30‑mile‑an‑hour winds?  
JASON DUFNER:   Is that right?   
   
 Q.   How would that come into play?  
JASON DUFNER:   We don't really look too far ahead in things like that.   Forecasts, you can pretty much throw them in the trash can around here.   You never know what's going to happen.   Most of the guys, I think, you peek at what the weather might be doing.   But you just take it as it is over here, because it can change 30 minutes to an hour.   It can be completely different than what you thought it might have been or what it was.  
   
 Q.   What if it does go 30 on Sunday?   It totally throws this thing wide open.   
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, definitely.   I think it will bring the scores back closer to even par.   Guys are going to have to be grinding a little bit more.   I wouldn't think somebody would run away with it.   If the winds are going to pick up, it will make it more difficult to play.   It's a pretty tough golf course, so you're seeing it about as easy asit can probably play for the week, and if that were to happen, scores would probably go up with that.  
   
 Q.   How impressed are you with Scott and Snedeker being where they are?  
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, basically both of them are playing really well right now obviously after two days.   That's about all I have to think about that, really.   I'm not concerned with what other guys are doing.   But obviously they've had two very nice rounds of golf.   Impressive to put them back‑to‑back like that.   That's what you have to do to contend in these type tournaments.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
JASON DUFNER:   Probably a little bit that my game is a lot better, and also that I was early over here practising and preparing.   I got over my jet lag, wasn't tired, wasn't fatigued.   Had six or seven days over here to hit shots that I needed to and kind of get a feel for the style of golf that you need to play over here.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, it's really difficult to play in the wind over here, obviously, because there's no trees that kind of block it.   In the States if you get 20 miles an hour it might only play like 10 because you have trees blocking it in certain areas.   Over here 20 miles an hour feels like 40 in the States.   So you've got to really control your golf ball, try to work it in the winds, give yourself an allowance if you're going with the wind, pick different lines that you may not be used to.   It's really hard to aim left of a target and hit a draw, because that's what it calls for.   The wind might be screaming to the right.   
We're so target orientated that we're going to go right at the target most of the time.   Those are little adjustments that you've got to pick up while you're over here.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
JASON DUFNER:   I have in the past.   I don't think last year‑‑ maybe I did.   Something like that.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
JASON DUFNER:   I wouldn't say that.   They've got a great event over there.   But for me‑‑ you can say that, I'm not going to say that.   But just for me and my schedule and how I've been preparing for majors since last year's PGA, it kind of fits to do this.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT