U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 17, 2012
Jason Dufner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about the round today.   Conditions different?   A lot different?
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, a little bit.   A little bit of moisture in the air and on the greens too. 
Played a little bit softer I think the last two days.   Usually with the U.S. Opens you see it progressively firm up.   That wasn't the case this week with the weather and stuff.   Not sure how much they did prep work to make it like that but weather obviously play as part in that. 
But I thought it was pretty scorable again today along with yesterday. 

Q.   With all the undulations in the golf course and on the greens, did it kind of feel a little bit almost like a British Open course out there?
JASON DUFNER:   At times.   There's some holes I think they did a good job with the setup giving you kind of alleyways or run ups, you weren't having to fly the ball to the front of the greens.   So that gave you some options if you were in the rough. 
So there's some holes, especially like 1 and 11, 12, kind of, where you can have that feel of a British Open, definitely. 

Q.   What are your thoughts on 16 and that tee?
JASON DUFNER:   I kind of like it.   It's going to add a little drama to the course today, I think.   I had a chance to go for it in two.   Missed it to the left, which is not the best of places to be, but you really got to bend one off the tee there, which makes it a pretty tough driving hole.   Maybe a little bit even tougher than all the way back. 
But if you can hit a good one, you can have a chance to kind of get it up in that bunker.   I don't think you'll see anybody putting it on the green, but there could be some more birdie opportunities there, a little bit more excitement, and maybe somebody will birdie one of those last couple holes to win the thing.

Q.   Do guys know they were going that far up?
JASON DUFNER:   I had heard as I was leaving yesterday one of the officials was saying that they were going to go way up, inside 600‑yard.   So I kind of had an idea and got to the golf course today and heard that it was way up. 
So, no, I didn't hit any tee shots from up there.   So kind of on the fly type of situation. 

Q.   Thoughts on how Beau carried himself today and the tournament in general?
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, you know, 17 years old, playing in the U.S. Open, I'm not sure which group we were in, but close to the back end of the field, played really solid today.   I thought he handled himself pretty well.   He got in some tough spots out there, difficult to make some pars from some of the places he was.   But he carried himself pretty well and you could tell that he was really grinding there towards the end trying to finish as low as he could, so it was pretty impressive at that age to be in this environment and play that well.   But it's just kind of a testament to the younger group of guys that are coming up.   It seems like you always see younger guys playing very well in certain events out here on TOUR. 

Q.   Do you remember being as poised as when you were his age?
JASON DUFNER:   No, I had no idea how to play golf at his age.   I was pretty ‑‑ I was just happy to play AJGA event at that age, let alone a U.S. Open.   So pretty neat experience for him, obviously, and he had a pretty solid week.   I know he wishes he would have probably finished a little bit better, but any time you're in the Top‑30 of a U.S. Open at 17 years old, you got to have a lot going for you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT