U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 16, 2012
Jason Dufner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Was there more you could have got out of it maybe?  
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, today I just didn't really make any putts, maybe a little bit off with my read, maybe a little bit off with the speed.   The greens are pretty difficult.   You got a lot of putts that kind of go uphill and then if they go past the hole a little bit they start going down hill.   
So it's real hard to be super aggressive with it.   You want to really matchup your speed and line.   Just wasn't quite able to do that today.   I felt like I left a couple out there on the greens.  
   
 Q.   With everybody stacked up, you're in the Top‑10 and as the leaderboard stands right now, close to making a move, is there a move to be made, do you think, on a Sunday?  
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, I think so.   I think the golf course was pretty receptive today.   I think that they did a great job with the setup.   I think it's bunched up like you said, hopefully we'll get maybe similar conditions tomorrow, the wind wasn't quite up today, so that made picking clubs a little bit easier, shot selection a little easier.   
So I think you could have a nice finish to the championship tomorrow with a lot of guys in the mix and I would like to make a run, obviously, those first six holes are pretty tough to play too aggressive or crazy aggressive and pick up birdies, but go through that first six in even and maybe pick up a couple in the middle stretch and give your self a chance with those last couple holes.   
   
 Q.   You sound a little disappointed in the round, but you're right in the mix going in?  
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, it's just tough when you've hit a lot of good shots and you didn't make, convert putts.   Obviously pars are going a long way, but when you're behind a little bit like I am, you would like to pick up a birdie or two, especially when you've had some putts inside of 10 feet, because it's pretty tough to get it inside 10 feet on this golf course.   
So I would like to be two or three better, feel like I played good enough, just haven't converted on some opportunities out there.   
   
 Q.   Do you have to make adjustments in your thought process tomorrow concerning where you are?  
JASON DUFNER:   Maybe a little bit.   It just depends how the first six holes go.   If you can get through those even and the guys that are at even or 1‑under, whatever it may be, 2‑under, and they make some bogeys, you can pick up some ground that way without being too aggressive and just playing some smart golf.   I played those pretty well for the most part this week.   I think 2‑over for the week for those six holes, which is probably standing pretty well.   
   
 Q.   16 and 17, do you feel like you've lost something if you don't get an A, if you don't par 16, and B, somehow not find a way to birdie 17.   
JASON DUFNER: Yeah, you're probably losing about a shot to the field if you go through there 1‑over.   I played 162‑over and 171‑under so, I've probably lost maybe two shots to the field there.   They're both tough holes.   Obviously 16's really long and if you can't get your lay up in the fairway you're going to have a hard time hitting the green, much less having a birdie opportunity, and then 17's difficult with the second shot because you're so guarded about going right that you know you can't be super aggressive with that either.   
So they're not, 16's definitely not a birdie hole.   That's the hole that you're trying to get it in the fairway and maybe you can get a look inside 20 feet; and 17th distance looks like it's a birdie hole, but it can be pretty tough too.   
   
 Q.   What's the best strategy for making up ground tomorrow?  
JASON DUFNER:   I think just getting off to a nice start there on those first six holes, playing those even or better, hoping maybe some of the guys in the field kind of come back to you a little bit, and then you can get on some of the holes.   
7 through maybe like 16 there's some birdie opportunities there that if you can get the ball in the fairway, so I think that's where you kind of makeup your ground is on that stretch of holes and then come down to the last three, if you're right in contention, a shot back or two shots back, maybe you go with your strategy there to be maybe a little more aggressive.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT