ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 27, 2012
Jason Dufner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  COLIN MURRAY:   We'd like to welcome Jason Dufner to the Interview Room at the Zurich Classic of New Orleans.   Jason, 12-under for two rounds.   Quite a way to finish up, 65.   Just talk a little bit about that eagle on 18.
JASON DUFNER:   Really nice start on the front-9, I had a couple putts, I had a couple of easy birdies.   I don't think I missed a fairway or a green.   Just had some tough reads.   The greens are kind of tough to read. 
Sometimes you get competing grains, competing slopes, so you get a putt that might break to the right but the grain is going left.   That can be kind of difficult to judge. 
And then 18 I had just a really good number for my 5-wood to get somewhere on that green and had a putt that was down-grain and breaking to the left with the grain so that was a nice way to finish the day.
COLIN MURRAY:   Any questions?

Q.   How far out you said on 18?
JASON DUFNER:   I had 236 front.   Not sure what -- how much the pin was on but I was looking at front number so a 5-wood.   Landed two, three on.   Pretty good number for my 5-wood.

Q.   Jason, you referenced how easy -- this position before has kind of added to your comfort level.   Can you just, I guess, talk about whether or not I guess the more you put yourself in this position the closer it is that you can get into the win column?
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah.   I think that can hold true.   It's been a difficult weekend for me the last month and a half or so.   I haven't quite played as well as I would have liked but I know that my game is still pretty good. 
Obviously there's a lot of different things that go into winning besides hitting the golf ball.   So I've been trying to think about what I can do better mentally, what I can do better emotionally out there and learn some -- learn from some things that I maybe struggled with here the last five, six weekends playing out here. 
Hopefully, maybe, this will be the week.   I've had a lot of really nice finishes here on this golf course and feel pretty comfortable playing this golf course.

Q.   Jason, seems like there's a lot of low scores out there today.   People continue to shoot in the mid-60s over the weekend?
JASON DUFNER:   Just depends on what the weather does.   Obviously guys that are up at the top of the leaderboard are going to have later tee times tomorrow. 
The wind picks up a little bit more even after lunch.   If the wind picks up somebody that tees off early can have a chance to jump up on that leaderboard and some of the leaders, if they play a really nice round of golf, might be able to shoot 3, 4-under. 
Just depends on what the weather does on this golf course.   You get strong winds, it will make the scores higher.

Q.   What were the problems in the last month and a half and is this course for you kind of like a cure-all?
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah.   This is a good spot for me.   Really had some nice finishes.   Like I said, the problems have been high scores on the weekend.   I can't really pinpoint anything to be honest with you.   You know, the golf courses get tougher on the weekend.   Usually, get firmer and faster, hole locations get more difficult and, to be honest, the events that I've been playing in are pretty high pressure events, World Golf event, Masters, what else I did play in?   Bay Hill.   Strong fields.   Really tough golf courses for the most part. 
So this one I feel just a little bit more comfortable.   Feel like you got a little bit more room for error on this golf course.   You don't have to play perfect.   Maybe that will lead to some better scores on the weekend.

Q.   Are you still operating the Birdies for Bama Program?
JASON DUFNER:   No.   That ended at the end of the last year.   We still have the foundation going.   We don't have anything set or bookmarked for this year yet but we raised close to $50,000 last year donated to some tornado -- people that were affected by the tornado in the Tuscaloosa area.

Q.   Can you talk about your birdie on 6, that's one of the harder holes out here?
JASON DUFNER:   That is a pretty difficult hole into the wind again.   I hit a nice drive that kind of found the left center of the fairway so I was a little bit shorter in.   The hole kind of kicks back to the left.   I hit a 6-iron to maybe about 30 feet and luckily got that one to go in.   That felt like stealing a shot there, definitely, maybe a shot and a half on the field.

Q.   Looking at the final group for the third time this year, the first since the Masters. 
How do you think this experience will compare to that, does it make it any easier now?
JASON DUFNER:   Just this event probably makes it a little bit easier.   Obviously in a Major and the Masters playing with Freddie Couples that could be pretty high pressure situation. 
This week is always good for myself and my fiancee, we love coming here, we love the food here, we love staying downtown and we always love playing -- I always love playing this golf course.   So maybe that will equal some better success on the weekend.

Q.   Got a little ad space after the Masters.   You have a sponsor lined up for the weekend, too?
JASON DUFNER:   I don't know yet.   I have to talk to my agent off the golf course.   That would be nice.
COLIN MURRAY:   Anything else?   Jason, thanks for your time.
JASON DUFNER:   You're welcome. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT