MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 6, 2012
Jason Dufner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How was it?   
JASON DUFNER:   Good.   Golf course played a little bit tougher today, I think.   The winds picked up a little bit, which makes it a little tricky out here.   It seems to be bouncing around on the treetops a little bit, so club selection a little bit difficult.   It just pretty solid round.  
   
 Q.   I know you guys when you are out here try to be on (inaudible), but what's the emotion like to see you are leading or tied for the lead in this tournament?   And specifically today because you were tied for the lead early and then doubled 4, and we'll talk about that.   You had the lead and then bogeyed 18?  
JASON DUFNER:   I don't really think about it to be honest with you.   I'm just playing a round of golf.   I know the situation and I'm playing a major, I'm playing at Augusta in the Masters.   
As a player, I know everything that's going on.   At times I know I that I am leading or behind or whatever it might be in that situation.   I'm just trying to have a nice round of golf, play well, commit to my shots and let the rest take care of itself.   
   
 Q.   Would you speak to those holes?   
JASON DUFNER:   4, I just got in a bad situation, hit a poor shot off the tee and kind of short sided to the right and had kind of a wet muddy lie down there and just didn't come out like I thought.   I was trying to play it safe and maybe hit it 10 or 15 feet and almost save the bogey.   Just didn't come out like I wanted to, hit the average bunker shot.   
What was the other one?   
   
 Q.   The last hole.   
JASON DUFNER:   18 was playing pretty tough into the wind today.   I had a 4 iron to the front hole location, which you don't get very often and the wind was kind of swirling around a little bit, a little bit of mud on the ball, and off to the right in the bunker, which is not an easy up‑and‑down.   I had a reasonable, makeable putt, but wasn't able to get it in.  
   
 Q.   I knew what you told us yesterday about playing in these majors, but now you have risen up on the board a little higher.   Is it feeling like the PGA at all in any sense?   
JASON DUFNER:   Not really.   Probably was hitting it better at the PGA, but I'm pretty comfortable out here.   At the PGA, you have got to be a little bit sharper, I think, off the tee.   You can get away with a little bit on this golf course tee ball wise.   The biggest thing is just approach shots at this golf course.   I like to hit my irons a little bit better.   Probably conditions with the wind makes that a little bit tougher, the balls slicken up a little bit with mud which makes it harder to control.   
I thought I did a pretty good job when I was in spots to manager that  
   
 Q.   Was there something consistent between 15, 17, and 18?  
JASON DUFNER:   As far as?   
   
 Q.   As far as you missed all three of those greens, one long, one short, one right?   
JASON DUFNER:   Actually, 15, I hit in two, chipped up, missed about a 6‑footer.   
17, I think I caught a little bit of a mud ball.   Wind was blowing pretty hard to the right, came out left, up and down.   
18, like I said, it was just a tough shot.   4‑iron into that green, there's not much space up there.   Missed it by five yards and not real easy up‑and‑down from that bunker.   
   
 Q.   What did you hit on 16?  
JASON DUFNER:   16, I hit an 8 iron.   Pretty comfortable number.   You have got a funnel on the right side with the wind blowing right to left.   You just want to try to take advantage of when you are feeling comfortable with certain iron shots and manage when you can when you are not so comfortable.  
   
 Q.   Will you play Saturday and Sunday the same?   
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, I think the weather is going to be a good bit better for the weekend, calmer conditions, nicer weather.   Like I said, I had a practice round, I feel real good out here.   So same game plan.  
   
 Q.   You played a lot of golf leading up to this week.   Are you tired of golf?  
JASON DUFNER:   No.   I'm good.   I'm pretty good.   I didn't play anything on Wednesday, took Wednesday completely off.   So took the week off, you know, from tournament golf from last week.   Played some casual rounds here, which wasn't too bad.   So I'm feeling pretty good.  
   
 Q.   You talked before about how you just don't get lost in the moment.   How do you do that?   How do you block out everything?   
JASON DUFNER:   I'm not sure.   There's a lot more going on out there than appears.   I feel like I have the same emotions and same thought processes as a lot of guys, but I seem to not show it quite as well as some other players.   It's just difficult.   It's a test to yourself.   You are trying to have the same mentality and confidence out there.  
   
 Q.   Stoic, is that the word?   
JASON DUFNER:   If you want to use it.  
   
 Q.   Speaking of stoic, your friend Charles Barkley is not like that.   What is your relationship with him like?  
JASON DUFNER:   We make a good combo there.   He's a little bit more out there and wears his emotions on his sleeve and tells people what he's got on his mind no matter the consequences.   So we've been friends for about a year and a half now, and get to see each other every once and a while at football games, basketball games.  
   
 Q.   Have you ever played golf with him?  
JASON DUFNER:   I have not.   He won't go on the course with me.  
   
 Q.   Or you won't go with him?   
JASON DUFNER:   I would love to go.   No, we haven't had a chance to play a round, but I'll get him out there one day.  
   
 Q.   Have you heard from him this week?  
JASON DUFNER:   I have not, no, not yet.  
   
 Q.   May be just as well, right?  
JASON DUFNER:   I don't mind that type of stuff.  
   
 Q.   What did you do on Wednesday?  
JASON DUFNER:   Wednesday I just hung out at the house.   I had a couple of errands, picked up some dry cleaning, how to send something off.   Watched the History Channel a good bit.  
   
 Q.   What did you learn from your experience in 2010 that might be helping you in the first two rounds?  
JASON DUFNER:   Just to be confident out here.   I had some really nice rounds at PGA.   Didn't quite work out but carried over, I think, into this year.   It gave me confidence that I can compete and play at a high level out here and do really nice things at event.  
   
 Q.   You are off to a great year.   Is that sort of the momentum carrying into this event?  
JASON DUFNER:   I have been feeling really good about my game.   Couple of rounds here and there, had a really bad nine holes at Bay Hill.   You know, missed the playoff by three shots at Tampa, which isn't a heck of a lot out on Tour.   
I've had some really, really good rounds and I'm just kind of searching to put four together.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT