MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 5, 2012
Jason Dufner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   A lot of golfers coming off the course have talked about the softness.   Talk about the conditions and how they helped you.   
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, the golf course is a little bit softer obviously with the rains we've had.   It's made the greens a little bit more receptive, made the golf course a little bit longer for me.   You really had to kind of watch the mud on the golf balls, approach shots.   I only had two balls that kind of squirted on me, which was nice, and people would think that it would play much easier, but it plays a lot longer at that yardage, and then also you run into the problem of controlling spin when you have wedges in your hand.   
It was a good mix, I think, of everything today.   The golf course played soft and it was scorable.  
   
 Q.   The last 30 to 45 minutes as the weather started picking up, how did that affect your game, and did you get off the course just in time?  
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, it got a little windy on 17 and 18.   No rain to speak of, so that was nice.   But it did pick up a good bit there.   It was real calm on 16, and all of a sudden we got on 17 tee and it was quite windy.   That actually kind of helped because 17 and 18 played downwind, so that was nice.   
   
 Q.   As you continue to get in the hunt do you just keep getting more and more comfortable?  
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, everything is feeling good.   I've had some really nice rounds this year, been playing pretty good, feeling more comfortable playing regular Tour events, feeling more comfortable in majors.   I spent a good bit of time here last week, and for some reason I just felt when I stepped on the tee today that I was going to be comfortable and play well.  
   
 Q.   You obviously know how well you played in the PGA.   The PGA before that you were fifth, and now you're within a shot of the lead.   Is there something here that you just don't worry about, how nervous you're supposed to be playing in these majors?  
JASON DUFNER:   I just don't see it that way.   I'm not too nervous about it.   Maybe on Sunday it'll be a little bit different.   But I've played in a good bit of these.   I don't have as much experience as some players, but I'm getting to the point where I feel good.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT