WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 8, 2012
Jason Dufner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   The big buzz about Tiger and Rory, you had a pretty nice day today, could you talk about it?   
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, I played really, really solid golf.   I hit some great shots which gave myself some nice birdies and when I got in a little bit of trouble, I always had pretty makeable, easy par saves, so I think that was a pretty good key to kind of glue the round together.  
   
 Q.   Does this Rory/Tiger buzz, is this good for the TOUR?   Is this something that maybe gets under the skin of some of these guys when some of you guys‑‑ when too much attention is paid to two people?  
JASON DUFNER:   I think as a fan, and me being a golf fan, I think it's great to see kind of two guys kind of playing at the top of their games last week.   But as a player and I think most players kind of take‑‑ we are not really interested in it.   We know those guys are playing good.   They are great players as it is, but I think we kind of focus on our business and think about what we can do to play better.   
   
 Q.   How tricky is the wind out there today?  
JASON DUFNER:   It's pretty difficult.   But it's been the same direction since Monday.   So I think everybody that's been here for a couple days is probably pretty comfortable with it.   I knew that I was today, and I was kind of glad to see it come out of the same direction as the practice rounds.   
   
 Q.   Did it change at all during the day?  
JASON DUFNER:   No, it was pretty much out of the east, maybe a hair out of the north.   It's been that direction since Monday, so that's always a good thing.   I'm not sure if it's going to switch around; that would make it a little bit more difficult.   But like I've said a couple times, I was pretty comfortable with where the wind was coming from, and being able to execute those shots.   
   
 Q.   What did you take out of last year's PGA?   Did you learn anything coming into this year?  
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, I felt like I was close to winning that major and that gives you confidence that you can be competitive out here on any given week.   Might not be able to string it together for five, six, seven, eight tournaments in a row, but you know, once a month, or five times a year, you know, I feel like I can play really good and be competitive and obviously I'm trying to achieve to where I can be that guy that can play really well every week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT