THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
June 1, 2017
Jason Dufner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Jason, lowest round ever here at the Memorial, 65.  Through your bag, what was working so well?
JASON DUFNER: I think everything was.  I hit a lot of fairways, a lot of greens.  Gave me a lot of good opportunities around this being good.  I was most likely probably with my iron play, because that put me in position to have some looks at birdies.
Q. You mentioned your iron play.  You've been on this Tour a long time, four victories including a major championship.  You've never hit all 18 greens in regulation.  18 fairway, had an opportunity to do that.  Did you know that at the time?
JASON DUFNER: I think I've done that a couple of times here.  That pin catches me up every year in the first round.  But I'll take it, 65 to start the tournament.
Q. Absolutely.  You started so well here.  What was your key to maintain consistency, heading into tomorrow and possibly through the weekend?
JASON DUFNER: I think just staying kind of patient out there.  This is a difficult golf course.  The wind can be tricky at times.  I'm hoping we'll have some calmer conditions.
But just being underneath the hole is a big thing out here.  I find myself -- when I play good rounds, I seem to be putting uphill all week.  I'm struggling from above the hole.  So position into the greens is important.
Q. What a beautifully played round of golf.  Are you able to enjoy the first 17 holes or are you frustrated with the bogey at 18?
JASON DUFNER: No, I'm happy with the day.  Played pretty well all day.  Hit a lot of fairways, which is the first step on this being good.  When you do that, you can stay below the holes and have more aggressive putts out here.  I was able to do that for the most of the day.
Q. I was so impressed with your pace on these greens that are very quick.  If you didn't make the birdie, I thought you had pretty much a tap-in for par all day.  The rate of your putt was spot on.
JASON DUFNER: Yeah, I didn't have a lot of 3-, 6-footers for par, which can be tricky.  The greens are fast and usually have a lot of break.  It was nice to have tap-ins for par.
Q. Looks like the greens held up all day to me, but you get that early tee time and nice greens early on Friday morning?
JASON DUFNER: Yeah, they do a great job here getting the course in shape.  The greens are always pretty good.  They're usually a little faster in the mornings because they're right off a fresh cut.  That will be an adjustment, but I think I'll be ready for it.
Q. You played well here before, thinking back to 2015?
JASON DUFNER: Yeah, I can put a couple of rounds together usually here.  But I'm looking for more than that this week.  Usually we can keep it going for four.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT