ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 24, 2011
Jason Dufner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Is today your birthday?  
 JASON DUFNER: It is. It is my birthday.  
  
  Q. Any plans?  
 JASON DUFNER: Not really. Kind of hard to have birthdays when you're out on the road travelling and trying to play golf tournaments. So I'll probably just do something for dinner and that's about it.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about getting off to a good start here and being in the hunt?  
 JASON DUFNER: Yeah, I always seem to play pretty well the first couple of days here and slowly regress back to poor play but hopefully that won't be the case this week. I feel pretty comfortable on the golf course. I felt pretty good today, and a little disappointed with the finish, but we have three more days to go.   
  
  Q. Why do you think that is?   
 JASON DUFNER: It's a tough golf course and usually the wind kind of picks up during the week and the greens get firmer and faster and you almost have to adjust your style of play, I think Saturday and Sunday, you have to take less aggressive lines.   
 That's a hard mind-set when you're comfortable hitting certain shots into certain greens and all of a sudden it changes. So I think the guys with more experience, this being my fourth time playing, maybe I learned something from those four days on Saturday and Sunday in the past.  
  
  Q. Do you feel like it's something you've talked to yourself about?  
 JASON DUFNER: Yeah, I think so. You kind of see what's going on on the golf course and the conditions, too; if it stays calm and the greens stay soft, then you can probably be more aggressive but that doesn't seem to be the case and you probably after a couple of holes, you figure out what style of play you're going to need that day.   
 I think a lot of experience goes with this golf course, you get guys that are playing here for the 10th, 20th time and they have probably seen every wind condition and all of those things. I think it's just a little bit different mind-set on the weekend for sure.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT