PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 15, 2010
Jason Dufner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. I guess just talk about the day. This is your best major finish, is that right?  
 JASON DUFNER: Yes.  
  
  Q. Just your thoughts on the experience. Now that it's over, what do you think you got from just being in the mix on that last day?  
 JASON DUFNER: I think I got a lot out of it. It's like my 8th or 9th major, or something like that. Clearly I seem to be getting a little bit better, getting in contention in the U.S. Open a couple times after 36 holes, but this week, after 72 holes I was kind of right there in the mix, a couple things go a little differently, I would have a chance to win. So it's definitely a long week for me.  
  
  Q. Looking back, what hole would you or holes would you like to have back?  
 JASON DUFNER: Probably 16 and 17. I was in pretty good position right there and missed the fairway on 16 and then couldn't be very aggressive going into that green. I'm sure a lot of guys were making birdies there and I ended up with a par.   
 17, I just road the wind a little too much and got down into the rough that is down there to the left of the green and bogeyed that.   
 But if I could have those two holes back maybe to play over I think I would give myself a little bit of a chance for sure.  
  
  Q. Talk about 18 real quick. Were you trying to be aggressive there.   
 JASON DUFNER: Yeah, I hit a bad tee shot. I drew a good lie and was just trying to make par and get it on the green on a really tough hole and I kind of hit a perfect 3-wood in there and made along one, my first long one of the week. So that was a great way to finish the week for sure.   
  
  Q. What take aways can you get from this weekend?  
 JASON DUFNER: Well, it's good. Any time you're in contention for any tournament it's great. But being a major with the best players pretty much Top-100 in the world are here and finish where I'm going to be, Top-10 you can probably take that and then we got the playoffs coming up so I can maybe ride that a little bit going into the playoffs.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT