U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 17, 2010
Jason Dufner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Talk about the conditions out there?  
 JASON DUFNER: Pretty tough. Pretty much what I expected. The greens were pretty firm. The wind wasn't too bad, so that was nice.   
 But, yeah, it's pretty tough out there.  
  
  Q. You played in the AT&T?  
 JASON DUFNER: Yeah, I have. It's completely different, obviously. A different time of year, so usually when we're playing here it's pretty soft, receptive, and that's not the case this week.  
  
  Q. Do you think how it's set up now plays better for your game or worse?  
 JASON DUFNER: Oh, I actually think the ball goes a little bit further off the tee and you have to be a little bit more creative with the iron shots. Going to be tough to get it close to pins. But there's some room out there to get some shots close.  
  
  Q. Is the course playing like it did the in the practice rounds?  
 JASON DUFNER: It's pretty similar. I think the USGA has done a pretty good job as far as preparing Monday through Wednesday for us and how it's going to be, and hopefully it will stay consistent with how it is now.  
  
  Q. Did you have any disappointing shots or miraculous shots?  
 JASON DUFNER: Not really anything miraculous. A disappointing bogey on the last two holes, but other than that, 1-over's not too bad for the first round of a U.S. Open.   
  
  Q. So did you expect to see yourself up there with those guys?  
 JASON DUFNER: Yeah, I think so. Actually I feel like the U.S. Open sets up good for me, just trying to be patient and take some opportunities for birdies. I felt pretty comfortable out there.   
  
  Q. How did you play those last two in the practice rounds?  
 JASON DUFNER: I made pretty much pars on them for the most part, so I had chances for pars, but I wasn't able to make the putts.  
  
  Q. That's about the best you can do on those holes, right?  
 JASON DUFNER: Definitely with the way the hole locations are today that's definitely for sure.  
  
  Q. What's your game plan for tomorrow?  
 JASON DUFNER: Same thing. Just keep trying to make some pars and there seems to be probably four or five holes you can birdie a day and then go to try and birdie those and keep your bogeys to a minimum.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT