RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 26, 2009
Jason Dufner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DOUG MILNE: Just a couple comments. Kind of a crazy week, odd week, but you still got the lead. Is it frustrating having to deal with weather or is that just part of the game? 
 JASON DUFNER: I think it's just part of it. As professionals we kind of have to adjust to anything that happens out there on the golf course. 
 And with the weather the one thing about this is I can't control it. None of the players can control what's going on. So I think everybody wants to get out there and play and compete and try to win this golf tournament and finish it up.
 DOUG MILNE: Do you change your game plan at all, whether you're hunting for the lead or whether you have the lead in that you're sitting on it? 
 JASON DUFNER: Yeah. I think this tournament being the scores are pretty low, the conditions are conducive to shooting low scores, I need to keep making birdies. 
 I can't expect to go out there and play even par the rest of the week and be able to win. Kind of keep continuing what I've done the first few days and make birdies and give myself chances for birdies to try to go as low as possible.

 Q. How has the course been? Obviously wet. Gives you chances to really go at the pin. 
 JASON DUFNER: Yeah. The conditions have been real soft. Fairways very, very soft. It's especially a good thing because you don't get any rollout, so you can not worry about going through fairways or going through doglegs. 
 The greens are very soft. So pretty much anything inside 180 yards the conditions you can try and attack and give yourself good chances for birdies. Probably the hardest thing is making putts later in the day because the greens get a little bit chewed up. 

 Q. So what's the plan from here? How do you spend the time till tomorrow morning?
 JASON DUFNER: Probably just going to go back to the room, maybe watch some baseball games, get some dinner and treat it like I kind of played and get ready to play tomorrow. 

 Q. Is that what you did in this gap here?
 JASON DUFNER: Yeah. I was back at the room, watching some baseball, took a little nap, came back out getting ready to play at 5:30. Obviously that didn't happen. Just treat it like we played today, get some supper and get ready for tomorrow's round. 

 Q. Perfect. Thanks, buddy. Good luck. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT