RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 25, 2009
Jason Dufner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   NELSON SILVERIO: Welcome Jason Dufner. Thanks for spending a few minutes with us. Our leader by one. Why don't you give us some general thoughts on your round today. 
 JASON DUFNER: Pretty good. I played very well, hit a lot of fairways, a lot of greens. Made a couple more putts today. 
 It started raining at the end, conditions got a little tougher, but 63 is a pretty good score, and leading after two rounds is always great, too. 
 NELSON SILVERIO: Questions? 

 Q. (Indiscernible).
 JASON DUFNER: Yeah. A little bit I didn't really know where I was at, and I made the putt on 16 and realized I was at 10. It enters the back of your mind. 
 Obviously I was right in the middle of the fairway on 17, a pretty accessible pin and didn't hit a good shot, and then 18 I hit a good drive. 
 It was a possibility, but it didn't work out, but 63 is a great. And I think it enters everybody's head when you get that low, once you realize how low you are. Sometimes you don't realize it. 

 Q. Did you have any indication early that it was going to a good round for you? Anything sort of happen early that made you feel like something good was going to happen?
 JASON DUFNER: Yeah. You know, the first day I played great. I probably hit it a little better the first day than today, so I was confident going into today. 
 And I holed a pretty long putt on the third hole, and hit it really close on 5, I think it was, and then made another long one on 9. I was like, this is going pretty well. And the Back 9's got three par-5s, so I had that thought in my head, so once I made a couple putts and realized maybe today was going to be a little better putting day than the first day, I had indication that I could shoot a low score.

 Q. Did you have any previous knowledge of the course record? You said 59 didn't enter your mind, but did you know it was a course record?
 JASON DUFNER: Yeah, I saw it this morning on one of the boards when I was walking from the car here that it was 62 or something. So once I got to 10-under, I was like, I got a chance at the course record. 
 But you're trying to win a tournament, and you're trying to get the best score you can, and the records just kind of come with that. 

 Q. Is the golf course playing just about as easy as it could up until the time the rain came today?
 JASON DUFNER: Yeah. I think so. There wasn't any wind at all. You know, and obviously with as much rain as we've had, the conditions are very soft. So the ball's not chasing out in the fairway, and if you're inside 170 yards, you can be pretty aggressive at the pins and get a lot of those birdie putts. 
 Probably the biggest challenge is you're missing fairways and then with the greens being so soft, they pick up a lot of spike marks and get uneven, so making the putts is probably the hardest thing out there right now.

 Q. There's a saying it's tough to follow a low round with another low round. What will you do tomorrow to kind of dispel that?
 JASON DUFNER: Yeah. Shoot a low round. You know, it is tough. It seems like when guys shoot a really low score, they have a hard time. Maybe there's expectations of I'm playing great, I should be shooting 5, 6, 7, 8-under. 
 But I don't know the last time I shot 63 and I don't know what I shot after it, but my mindset is I'm playing good, and anything in the 60s, you know, 68 or better is a good score. 
 So I'm not going to try to relate today's round. I'm just going to try to keep playing well and keep doing the things I'm doing, and if I can shoot 7, 8, 9-under again, great. I just feel like my game's at the point where I can still shoot under par, no matter how I'm playing right now. 

 Q. Speaking on the subject of Stewart Cink tweets and twitter at some point that got everybody laughing a while back, did you kind of get over that?
 JASON DUFNER: That was false information. It was speculation as to I was going to do that, but it didn't end up working. 
 It was quite uncomfortable. But Stewart's in the trailer a lot working out, and I'm in the trailer a lot, and everybody gets to talking about what's going on, and he kind of tweeted that, I guess, I heard through the grapevine. But that was a false rumor. 
 NELSON SILVERIO: Anything else? All right. Jason, thank you very much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT