JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 12, 2007
Jason Dufner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  6-under par, great way to start the tournament.   
 JASON DUFNER:  Yeah, it's a good start.  Nice to get off to a good start like that.  Seems to make things a little bit easier for the week, so three more rounds.   
  
  Q.  Was there anything early in the round that got you going today?   
 JASON DUFNER:  Yeah, I made some key saves.  I had a couple of misdirected shots and was able to get those up and in for par, which was nice.  I really played great on the back nine, so just keeping those pars going on the front kind of kept me a couple under instead of being even or over par making the turn.   
  
  Q.  How is your game right now compared to where you'd like it to be?   
 JASON DUFNER:  Yeah, the past couple months I've been playing pretty poor.  I took the week off last week, kind of worked on some things, thought about some things a little differently, and today I was able to put a good number together.   
  
  Q.  Talk about that last putt there, a nice way to finish off?   
 JASON DUFNER:  Yeah, it's always good to finish with a birdie.  I missed kind of a short one on 17 for birdie, so it kind of balanced out.  I had a similar putt on 10 like I did on 18 and just kind of played too much break, so I played a little less break and it kind of just dropped in.   
  
  Q.  It took the long way around there, too.  Did your heart go in your throat a little bit?   
 JASON DUFNER:  Not really.  Even if I missed it, I still had a great round of golf.  It's just nice to finish like that.   
  
  Q.  Did the wind come down a little bit during your round?  It seemed like it was pretty windy for a while and then it seemed to settle down.   
 JASON DUFNER:  Yeah, it's kind of weird because you get on that back nine and there's a lot more tree coverage so you don't feel the wind as much, so it doesn't feel like it's blowing the same.  But for the most part I think it was pretty consistent.  But like I said, on the back nine you can't feel it that much.   
  
  Q.  Could you have wanted anything better out of your first round?   
 JASON DUFNER:  Not really.  It was pretty solid tee to green, made some putts.   
 I didn't birdie any of the par 5s today, so that would have been nice.  That would be my only complaint.  But the par 5s, they lengthened them, so they're not quite as reachable anymore like they used to be in the past.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT