U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 14, 2007
Jason Dufner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Could you tell us about your birdies and bogeys today?   
   JASON DUFNER: Bogeyed No. 11. Wedged out, 2-putt from 30 feet.   



 Bogeyed No. 1, hit driver in the rough, wedged out, laid up short, didn't get up and down, about a 20-footer.   
 And 3, I hit a driver, 9-iron, made about a 6-footer.   
  
  Q.  This course the way it's playing, it's gotten more difficult than the morning, and Tiger in the morning was saying it was going to be tougher this afternoon.  Do you feel it getting tougher with the sun coming out?   
   JASON DUFNER: It played pretty tough I would say in my stretch. Maybe like 13 and then I made the turn, came around until about the 4th or 5th hole and then everything settled down. The sun came out, the wind kind of stop blowing. So it's playing easier than earlier this afternoon.   
  
  Q.  To play anywhere near par on this course is a good feeling, though?   
   JASON DUFNER: Yeah, I played pretty well, hit a lot of fairways, hit a lot of greens. And hopefully you get a lot of birdies to drop, and I think this is going to get a lot more difficult, and this is as easy as you're going to see Oakmont this week.   
  
  Q.  The USGA said they want this course to play on Sunday like it did on Monday during practice rounds, and then yesterday a half an inch of rain fell.  Do you feel like the course softened up considerably or is it playing the same?   
   JASON DUFNER: I think it's pretty much the same as for the practice rounds, which is something you don't see much, usually on the Tour it gets tougher. So if they were able to keep it consistent, that would be great. I think it would be plenty hard enough as far as us for a test of golf and probably the fairest.   
  
  Q.  Good day's work on your part?   
   JASON DUFNER: Yeah, I feel good. I like the setup of the U.S. Open. I like the mentality of trying to make pars and when you get in trouble make a bogey.   



 So it's refreshing from the PGA Tour where you feel if you don't make 6, 7, 8 birdies, you get killed out there.   
  
  Q.  Isn't that a reversal of mind-set, when a bogey isn't so bad?   
   JASON DUFNER: You just have to know that, that sometimes a 5 on a par 4 is good and sometimes a 4 on a par 3 is good.   



 You have to take opportunities and not let things get by you, because everybody is having the same opportunities.  If you can let it pass and get on with your round and try to make more pars, that's great.   
  
  Q.  Did that type of mind-set enter into your frame of mind, where you had to say, everybody is having the same difficulty, I'll be fine?   
   JASON DUFNER: Yeah, I think so. It's the kind of mentality you have to be prepared to accept things out there and let them go and get back in the frame of mind of making pars, maybe get looks at birdies, trying to get those. But you can't feel like you're letting things get away from you, because it's happening to everybody.   
  
  Q.  At 71, you're well within range of challenging for the lead.  How do you approach the second round?  It's basically the same attitude, right?   
   JASON DUFNER: It's definitely the same mind-set. I feel if I can go out and hit the same amount of fairways I did today and quality iron shots, placing it in positions where I'm not trying to have miracle 2-putts, I think I can contend in this tournament.   



 And the other part is being comfortable doing that, I've never done this before, and I've never done that on the PGA Tour, as far as challenging to win, so I can get comfortable in that environment and keep playing well, that's the key for me.   
  
  Q.  Is there anything that happened today that you found yourself saying, "I have to do better or I won't be here?"   
   JASON DUFNER: No, I had some shots, and I just tried to hit the fairway on the next hole, if I had a bogey, I tried to hit the fairway on the next hole and tried to keep going, and not let it bother me.     
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT