WGC DELL MATCH PLAY
March 23, 2016
Jason Dufner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Jason Dufner just won his match on the 17th green against Rickie Fowler.  We're talking about the ebbs and flows of a format against a player like Rickie.
JASON DUFNER: Yeah, it's tough.  I had a 3-up lead there with like 7 to play or so.  He made a couple birdies, and then I made a bogey and then you're playing the last three holes all square.
Q. How do you play your own game versus what you're seeing?
JASON DUFNER: Yeah, it's different.  You've got to play how your partner is playing.  I think today on the third hole Rickie hit a big hook there and into the hazard.  You have to always feel like they're going to pull off a great shot.
Q. Let's talk about the match.  I thought you played great, 7 birdies, but Rickie put the pressure on you.  He closed the gap and then you closed it out with two birdies on 16 and 17.  I guess that's match play, right?
JASON DUFNER: Yeah, that definitely is match play.  I played a lot of good holes today.  I feel like I played maybe a little bit better than Rickie.  I had control of the match maybe a little bit more than he did today.  But he snuck back in there with some nice birdies on the 12th and 13th.  And then I make a bogey and then he's right back in the match all of a sudden with the par-5 coming up.  That's what you have to deal with.
We've played this event for a while, with the team matches, too, Ryder Cup, Presidents Cup, you've always got to kind of put your foot on the pedal and keep grinding out and try to win some holes.
Q. You were an outstanding college player, so was Rickie.  You mentioned the other great matches you're in now.  How much fun is that?
JASON DUFNER: I think it's a little bit different for us.  It can be fun if you're winning.  And you can play great golf and lose a match.  I feel like I played pretty good today, whether I won or lost.  In stroke play you feel pretty good, but in the match play format, especially in this format with the groups, because if you lose your first match you're pretty much behind the gun.  I'm happy to get away with the win and see how it goes tomorrow.
Q. The beginning of the season, especially after you won in the desert, making Ryder Cup as one of your goals, is that one of your goals this season?
JASON DUFNER: Yeah, I think I had three goals coming into the season, win tournaments, get to The TOUR Championship and be a part of the Ryder Cup team.  I feel like if I do the first two I'm going to have a pretty good chance.  This is a great event.  Anything can happen this week.  If I were able to get a win here, you know, pretty much puts me on the team.  So I'm trying to take advantage of this week, use it for a little bit of match play experience.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT