CAREERBUILDER CHALLENGE IN PARTNERSHIP WITH THE CLINTON FOUNDATION
January 23, 2016
Jason Dufner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. That 29 on your back nine for those of us who will never understand what it's like to feel like that, what is going through your body when you're that hot?
JASON DUFNER: I've been playing good, I made the turn at 1-under, told the guys we were going to have a good back nine.  I told my caddie and my amateur partners, I'm about to do something good, and it kind of happened.  So when you start thinking like that, good things happen.  So that's just kind of where my mindset is right now.
Q. You were telling us it's probably not something you found in your game, but you're just shooting better scores.  So is there a combination of the two or when you get hot like this, do you just put your foot down on the pedal?
JASON DUFNER: You just keep playing.  It helps when you're shooting 30s and 29s, obviously, on nines, which I've done a couple times.  And I'm playing good, I'm not in any trouble, I feel relaxed out there, I never feel like I have to do anything, because I'm playing good.  I never feel like this has to happen or that has to happen, I'm just playing golf like I should.
Q. You said something yesterday, you said this is supposedly the most difficult golf course.  You were talking about the Stadium Course.  You're going back there tomorrow to try to win again on the PGA TOUR.  So as you make your way on those three courses and go back to one you've succeeded on, what's your mindset?
JASON DUFNER: Same thing.  I'm playing good.  I feel good about where my game is.  Conditions are perfect for scoring.  I'm not too worried about what other people are saying about golf courses.  I feel like I can play pretty good.  You got a lot of scoring clubs in your hand on that course.  So I'll be happy tomorrow to be out there and be confident and play good.
Q. Did you ever imagine your form being this good?
JASON DUFNER: Yeah, this is the way you want to play.  This is what we work to do.  This is where we want to play.  My mindset's at a point where, no matter what happens out there, good swings, bad swings, I know that I can shoot good scores.
Q. You do feel like you're in the zone?
JASON DUFNER: I don't worry about zones and talking about stuff like that.  I'm just trying to hit each shot as good as I can and not let results and outcome dictate how I feel or how I think out there.
Q. How much confidence does it give you knowing that you shot a good score on the Stadium a couple days ago?
JASON DUFNER: Yeah, I played a couple times out there, I've played pretty well every time I played, even in casual rounds.  Yesterday was great.  Today I got my driver sorted out.  So that will be pretty pivotal for tomorrow on that golf course.  You have to drive it pretty good.  So I'll be feeling good going to that golf course tomorrow.
Q. A couple guys a couple shots back right now.
JASON DUFNER: I don't worry about what other guys are doing, I'm more concerned about what I'm doing.
Q. It's been a little bit of a while since you've been in the winners circle.  How big would it be for you to win?
JASON DUFNER: I'm out here to win tournaments.  It doesn't matter when I won them or when the last time was, I'm showing up to win tournaments this year and play good golf every week.
Q. Go through your holes, your birdies and bogeys each hole.  Club and distance.  Start with the bogey at 10.
JASON DUFNER: Hit 9-iron in the bunker.  Hit it about eight feet.  Didn't get it up-and-down.  11, I hit a 3-iron on the green, 2-putted for from about 15 feet.  I was in the front bunker on 13.  Hit it to about two feet.  Next hole I hit a 7-iron in.  Made about a 20-footer.  Next hole I was in the bunker, missed about a 5-footer.  1, I hit a lob wedge in to about 10 feet, made it.  3, I hit a 5-iron to about 20 feet.  4, I hit a 9-iron out of the bunker to about three feet.  5 and 6 I hit 4-irons into both to about 35 feet and 2-putted.  7, I hit one in there 12 feet.  Made it.  With an 8-iron.  Then the last hole I hit pitching wedge to about 12 feet, made it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT