CAREERBUILDER CHALLENGE IN PARTNERSHIP WITH THE CLINTON FOUNDATION
January 22, 2016
Jason Dufner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. After tearing up the Stadium Course with a 65 today, that course is supposed to be very difficult.
JASON DUFNER: Yeah, it's probably the toughest of the three, obviously I got off to a good start on the front nine and was able to put up a good number out there today.
Q. Take us through one of your highlights.
JASON DUFNER: I struggled a little bit off the tee today, missed some tee balls, kind of gave me a hard time.  But I was able to get them on the greens or around the pins.  Also hit some good tee shots that didn't end up very good.  But I had a great number there on 9 and in this these conditions when you have a good number you feel like you can be real aggressive.
Q. You didn't make any bogeys yesterday and only one today after hitting it in the water on 10.  How important was this putt to keep the momentum going?
JASON DUFNER: A little bit, but I'm not really focused on outcome and results right now, I'm just trying to stay in the moment, not let outcomes and results dictate what I'm doing.  I feel like I can make a lot of birdie and do some good things.  You're going to hit some bad shots here and there, you might make a double here and there, but just keep moving on.
Q. La Quinta tomorrow, which is yielding some good scores.  Thoughts on that?
JASON DUFNER: Yeah, it will be good.  We got a rotation of three days, everybody has to play them.  So it's a pretty good golf course, it's a little bit tighter than these out here, so I'll need to drive it a little bit better, but I feel good with where my game is.
Q. You come into this tournament with a couple top-10s where is your confidence level now?
JASON DUFNER: Pretty good.  Trending the right way.  I finished last year with a top-10, won the Shark Shoot-out with Snedeker, and last week in Hawaii I had a pretty good week, top-10.  So going in the right direction with the game right now.
Q. 22 putts for this man today on route to a 65 on a course that statistically is the most difficult in the rotation.  Just how good was that number out there, in your opinion?
JASON DUFNER: I scored really well today.  I probably played a little bit better yesterday, but I got off to that great start on the front nine, made six birdies, so that made it nice.  You're going in the right direction, early, you feel confident, comfortable, and was able to post a good score on tougher of the courses.
Q. We've seen an uptick in your game, with back-to-back starts on the PGA TOUR.  What did you solidify to see these results?
JASON DUFNER: Just playing better, shooting lower scores.  A lot of scores under par since Malaysia.  I played a lot this fall.  Worked pretty hard in the off season, so I feel good with where my game is.  I'm going to play a lot this year, so this is a good start.
Q. This is hard to quantify, but your putting stroke looks like it's much more confident, starting from the very first hole where you rolled one in.
JASON DUFNER: Yeah, it's always good to start with a bogey.  I had about a 15-footer from just off the fringe and made it to get the day going.  So I feel good.  I felt good for the last couple months with everything I'm doing.
Q. That's a result of hard work in the off season, isn't it?
JASON DUFNER: Yeah, I played a lot in the fall, worked pretty hard after I finished up with the Shark Shoot-out.  So we went to the Hawaii, so I feel prepared.  In times past I've just kind of rolled into the season and kind of try to get going as we started in January, but this year I worked really hard in November and December to be ready to play.
Q. You can correct me, but I thought your ball striking may have been just a tick better in the opening round, but you certainly covered up any discrepancies, 22 putts in the second round?
JASON DUFNER: Yeah, definitely, I didn't drive it as well.  I hit some bad drives today.  Also hit some good drives that didn't end up very well.  Which made it a little bit tough for this course.  It's a little bit tougher off the fairways, you get some uneven lies and stuff like that.  But I was able to manage for the most part, put it in a good spot when I was missing the fairways.
Q. And this is traditionally the hardest of the three course rotation, still you got to hit the shots tomorrow at La Quinta.
JASON DUFNER: Yeah, definitely, La Quinta's a little bit tighter off the tee, I feel like I'm going to need to drive it a little bit better, there's some trees out on that golf course.  But if I can get it in the fairways I'll feel pretty good, I feel like my iron game's pretty sharp.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT