CAREERBUILDER CHALLENGE IN PARTNERSHIP WITH THE CLINTON FOUNDATION
January 21, 2016
Jason Dufner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Tied for the lead with three other guys at 64.  Is the mentality different in a tournament like this where you know the scores are going to be low when you start the day?  
JASON DUFNER: No, I don't think so.  We know going in that the golf courses are going to yield some birdies, so you just try to stay patient.  If you get off to a good start like I did today, I birdied the first two, that gets you rolling a little bit, you feel a little better.  It's tougher if you're 1-under maybe through 5 or if you kind of lose your patience.  But that's not something I have any trouble with is patience.   
 Q.  The last time you played these courses was to get your TOUR card.  A little bit different kind of pressure.  Do you feel like that was an advantage knowing these courses under that kind of pressure?  
JASON DUFNER: Maybe a little bit.  I came out before I went to Sony and played these golf courses, both of them, twice.  Spent some time out here practicing and playing.  So I felt good.  We have had some great weather, obviously that helps.  The courses are in great shape.  So I'm pretty comfortable right now.   
 Q.  Opening round you really took advantage of the par-5s, you played them in 4-under.  
JASON DUFNER: Yeah, birdies are plentiful out there right now, so playing the par-5s 4-under, they were all pretty easy, tap-in birdies.  So it was nice to take advantage of those and throw in a couple others.   
 Q.  Do you care about the rotation that you're playing, the golf courses, and you caught a relatively calm day here, don't know what the future holds for the other courses.  
JASON DUFNER: Yeah, I think it helps.  You play probably the easiest of the courses, I think, of the three, today, so you can get off to a good start.  But it could go the other way.  You don't play as well on the easy course and you feel like you're behind a little bit.  So the key is to play good on every course, to be honest.   
 Q.  I know you've been frustrated with your putting over the last couple years.  I thought you rolled the ball beautifully in this opening round.  Improved confidence, technique?  
JASON DUFNER: A little bit of both.  That's the biggest thing for me is to get the putter going.  I gave myself a lot of uphill looks for most of the day, so I was able to be confident with those.  But it's just all mindset.  The better I feel about how I'm going to putt probably the better I'm going to putt.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT