THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
June 5, 2015
Jason Dufner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JASON DUFNER:   Kind of had some stretches where I'm playing some really good golf and some poor golf.   Hole‑in‑ones are great, kind of lucky.   Picked up at least one on the field there.   I'm happy where I'm at.   I need to clean up the bad holes.

Q.   We had you at 208 yards.   What did you hit and what did you think when you hit it?
JASON DUFNER:   I hit a 6‑iron and I hit it pretty good and it looked pretty good from my vantage point.

Q.   How are you going to get more consistency in your game, what you're going to need, I imagine, this weekend?
JASON DUFNER:   Just keep playing.

Q.   Have you had a stretch like on that back side where you went birdie, eagle‑‑
JASON DUFNER:   No, 5‑under through three is probably the best I've ever done. 

Q.   What was going well?   What were you thinking through that stretch?
JASON DUFNER:   I needed to get back, you know.   I was kind of trending the wrong way.   I think I was a couple over at that point.   Hit a pretty good shot on 14, great shot on 15.   Kind of got the day going. 

Q.   I was just curious about how does this help your confidence, the way you played the first two days?
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, it's great.   Last week was a pretty good week.   I felt pretty good about my game coming in here.   The practicing has been good, casual rounds, Pro Am has been good.   Usually that begets some good play out here in tournament rounds, so I'm excited.

Q.   How was the golf course?   Is it still pretty soft?
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, it's pretty soft.   The greens are pretty receptive.   You're not getting much roll out of the fairways.   The wind picked up a little bit today, so club selection was a little bit tougher, out of a different direction today than yesterday.   The guys will be challenged with that in the afternoon. 
The greens are pretty receptive.   They're starting to speed up a little bit, though.

Q.   The things you do when you mix with fans and interactive stuff, how do you balance playing and giving back, as well?
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, it's great.   It's one of the best things about being on the PGA Tour, is the charitable side of it, and what these people do for the area, the local community. 
Obviously I'm from Ohio, so I have some ties, and Nationwide has been great to kind of involve me with some of the activities this week to get in touch with some of the fans.   I don't play up here that much.   Coming up here and doing some stuff, you can balance it out.   Thirty minutes isn't too bad. 

Q.   I saw several people with Auburn shirts.   Now, do you claim Cleveland or‑‑
JASON DUFNER:   Now I'm going to claim Cleveland because the Cavs are in the playoffs.   I've lived in Auburn longer than I have lived in Cleveland, so I'm slowly migrating south.

Q.   Are you a big Cavs fan?
JASON DUFNER:   Oh, yeah, huge Cavs fan.   I wasn't there for a couple of years.   When LeBron left, there wasn't much to watch.   But now he's back, it's exciting.   Last night was a tough game. 

Q.   I was going to ask if you watched it?
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, I watched it until a couple minutes left in overtime.   They were right there with a chance to win.   That's what they're trying to do, get one of those two.   So I'm sure they'll review some stuff and come up with some adjustments and maybe sneak one out of there.

Q.   You're obviously right there, what's it going to take to win this weekend?
JASON DUFNER:   Low scores.   The scoring is pretty good, I think.   I need to keep doing what I'm kind of doing.   I'm hitting it really good.   I'm having enough good holes, good shots to offset kind of some of the mistakes I've had, either limit the mistakes or keep doing what I'm doing.   5 or 6‑under every day is pretty good.

Q.   How special would this one be?
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, it would be great.   Here, Firestone, it would be awesome.   I grew up coming to these events watching these guys play.   Mr. Nicklaus' event, that's huge.   I haven't had much success here, but I'm in a good position after two rounds. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT