THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
June 4, 2015
Jason Dufner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about your round and what obviously didn't end good, but you had it going.   
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, I've been playing pretty good, I think, since the Masters is where I can play some golf again.   I got off to a nice start, going pretty good and a little disappointed with the finish.   But 66 around here is a pretty good day.  
   
 Q.   What was the highlight?   
JASON DUFNER:   I made a couple of long putts.   On 6, I just got it on the green, a 60‑footer, so that's like picking up one and a half on the field.   
And then 15, I made another bomb from across the green.   So, yeah, picked up three there.   But I've been hitting it good.   I had a great week last week, ball‑striking‑wise, I was a little off with putter.   Today I made some long ones, and missed some short ones.   Obviously a double kind of sucks, but we'll get after it tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   You mentioned last week, is there something in your swing that you've done differently?  
JASON DUFNER:   No, just working‑‑ I've just been working.   I got hurt last year, it's taking longer than what I would like or what I thought.   Not so much physically, but mentally.   I was not as confident as I could have been.   But you get that back through practice and playing, playing casual rounds and practice rounds, and slowly it starts to come back in tournament play.   So I'm right on the cusp of doing some good golf, I think.  
   
 Q.   I don't want to ask you about the last, but what happened off the tee there?  
JASON DUFNER:   I was trying to hit a cut shot, trying to work it into that fairway, and just kind of double crossed it.   The water is right there and dropped it in the rough, had a terrible lie.   Kind of happy with the double the way everything went.  
   
 Q.   18 has been playing pretty tough today.   
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, it's a tough hole.   I just have to hit a better tee shot.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT