U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 14, 2018
Jason Dufner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Jason Dufner, even par 70.
Q. How good is that even par 70?
JASON DUFNER: I think it's in fifth place, so beat about 151 guys, 152 guys.
Q. How do you feel?
JASON DUFNER: I think with this setup and this golf course, you shoot 70 every day, you're going to be in the mix.  So we'll see how the conditions go, how the golf course responds to the weather, and where the USGA wants the golf course to be for the week.  I think the last six or seven holes, probably right about where it needs to be for the rest of the week.  I think that would be very fair but challenging test for the rest of the week.
Q. Saw some big names put up some big numbers today.  Kind of there's a separation right there.  How do you feel about where you sit in that position?
JASON DUFNER: I mean, obviously, even par's a great score.  I think one of the things I really wanted to focus, because this week's so tough, is just what I need to do to play well each day.  I didn't watch any of the coverage, wasn't really looking at the leaderboards, wasn't really paying much attention.  Saw a couple minutes of it while I was eating lunch.
Start seeing things you don't want to see and kind of trick yourself a little bit into maybe falling into some of the pitfalls out there.  So I'm just trying to focus on what I need to do to play well and see how it stacks up for the week.
Q. Are there any adjustments that you want to make, or is it the same approach?
JASON DUFNER: Same approach.  I think the biggest thing, obviously, is be in the fairway.  If you're not in the fairway, you're pretty much looking at a bogey.  I like to see the greens.  I played one of the last groups, so there's probably close to 140 guys in front of me on every hole, especially on the back nine.  I'd like to see the greens a little bit fresher, maybe a little bit cleaner.  Hopefully that will be my case tomorrow, and we'll see how the weekend goes.
Q. I've been at plenty of U.S. Opens where there's been plenty of complaints about course setup.  I haven't heard any today.  Maybe a few pin placements, but for the most part --
JASON DUFNER: It's challenging.  These greens were built a long time ago when they were supposed to be rolling 4, 5, 6 on the stimp, and we're not at that pace this week.  It's a challenging setup for the USGA.  It's challenging to manage the conditions and what the weather's doing.  We have a couple greens out there that get elevated, so it will be a little bit firmer and faster, a little bit quicker.
I think they did a good job today.  Couldn't imagine it getting much firmer and faster, to be honest with you, but we'll see how it goes.
Q. You practiced yesterday?
JASON DUFNER: Yeah.  I picked the best time right when the rain came in for three hours.
Q. In looking at any of your practice rounds, did you ever play the course when it was like this?
JASON DUFNER: No.  I came close on Sunday.  It was a little bit firm and fast, and there was some breeze.  This is a different direction.  I hadn't even seen this wind.  I played Saturday, Sunday, Tuesday, Wednesday.  We had the same wind every day.  That was another challenging aspect, just kind of figuring out what the wind's actually doing.
Q. Why were you able to navigate the wind today and others just couldn't at all?
JASON DUFNER: I was able to control my ball a little bit better, probably.  That's a big key.  If you're not hitting it how you want to hit it, that wind will make you look stupid pretty quick.
Q. Had to be a little tasty to make that 12-footer on the last hole?
JASON DUFNER: Yeah, it's a good way to finish.  Obviously, 18 is a really tough hole today.  Like to hit driver, but my playing partners both went through into the rough.  I wanted to play from the fairway.  Longer iron in, missed it by a couple yards to the right, and I'll take it.  A 4's a 4.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT