CIMB CLASSIC
October 28, 2014
Jason Dufner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We'd like to welcome Jason Dufner to the interview room.   Jason, down in Australia last week.   If you could just some opening thoughts coming back from your injury last year.
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, it was nice to get out and compete again, play some golf, see where I stand health‑wise.   That's all really good for the week.   Did a lot of good things.   Had some rust probably on my game and made quite a number of bogeys that I normally don't make.   But pretty good week for the most part, made a lot of birdies, and I did a lot of good things, so I'm encouraged going forward.   Hopefully we'll get to play a little bit better and tighten up the game a little bit more with more competitive rounds.
THE MODERATOR:   Talk about being here this week in Malaysia. 
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, I love coming back.   I've been here, I think, twice on a different golf course, but I love coming overseas, love coming to Malaysia and playing golf.   I think CIMB does a great job with this event to kind of broaden the horizons so to speak of the game of golf and bring the PGA TOUR to some locations that normally don't get a chance to see some of the best in the world.   I'm excited to be back here, had some good results in the past over at The Mines Golf Club, so it'll be interesting to see how I fare here at this golf course. 

Q.   What drives you?   You I think had a playoff in the 2011 PGA, then went on to win.   What is the motivation that keeps you going that makes sure that you come back into the game which you love so much? 
JASON DUFNER:   I think just the competitive nature of the game.   You know, being a competitive person, wanting to play at a high level, this game always keeps you sharp.   It's very tough to stay at the top.   There's lots of good players.   Guys are always trying to get better, play at a higher level, so you always have to stay on your game.
I didn't have the best of years this year or the worst of years, but I ended up dropping close to 20 spots in the World Rankings, so that shows you how competitive the game is.   I enjoy playing in these big tournaments.   I enjoy to have the opportunity to come places like Malaysia and next week China, and those are perks of being one of the best players in the world, top 50 in the world.   I think the drive comes from wanting to stay in that position and knowing how competitive the game is and how competitive the guys are coming for you. 

Q.   Talk about for a minute if you could the importance of golf in Asia and getting more youngsters involved in the game, and hopefully one day eventually playing on the PGA TOUR. 
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, I think that's one of the biggest reasons why we're over here this week, why we're over in China next week, why the PGA TOUR has done a job of getting the game of golf in Asia.   I think people are excited about the game.   I think maybe 10 or 15 years ago they got a little bit of a taste of it.   We had some events with the Asian Tour and the European Tour, some of the big names game over, and I think the PGA TOUR noticed that people in these countries really wanted more of the superstars to come over, and the best way to do that was to grow the game through PGA TOUR events. 
I think it's a great thing.   I think you're seeing a huge influence of Asian players at the amateur ranks, a little bit at the college ranks, and especially young professionals that are given an opportunity because of the influence of golf and the PGA TOUR over here in Asia.   So I think it's a great idea, and I like coming over.   I think it's part of your job almost to spread the game, especially if you have the influence to come over here and people are excited to watch you play. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you for joining us, and good luck this week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT