CROWNE PLAZA INVITATIONAL AT COLONIAL
May 25, 2014
Jason Dufner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Jason, 66 is a great score, but you've got to feel like you left something out there.   Maybe not all your fault.   Hit a lot of great putts that might have gone?
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, I was pretty happy with how I played together.   66 is the best I could do.   I had some really good putts, I thought, that had a real good chance to go in.   Usually I had some sloppy putts out there that didn't look like they'd go in.   I'm glad I hung in there and finally got one to fall inside on 18.

Q.   You have a habit of keeping us just on the edge of our seat right until the very end.   What is it about that?   You missed a short one and then just kissed the edge, and wait until the last hole?
JASON DUFNER:   The short ones when you miss them take a lot energy out of you.   So it's tough.   You're competing against the best in the world, No.1 in the world is here this week, he's right up there.   It's hard when you miss the short ones.   But you have to keep plugging.   I thought I did a great job of giving myself chances.   Couldn't afford to really miss any greens today with the putting, so I did pretty good in that department. 

Q.   Well, tied for the lead at the minute, obviously you've got a hanger‑on.   What is it about this golf course?   Players have been trying to go forwards and forwards for the last couple of days but don't seem to be able to get anywhere?
JASON DUFNER:   It's tricky.   Wind is tricky out here, I think.   You get chips in the wind a little bit.   You've got a lot of doglegs.   It's really hard to hit fairways out here.   And in order to score I think you have to hit fairways.   It's a great design.   It's a tough challenge for all of us. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, I kept thinking that.   I hit a pretty sloppy putt there on 13, the par‑3.   After that I hit some really good putts, and they were just around the edges.   That's why you play 18 holes, you keep having good chances.   A little disappointed with how I hit that wedge shot on the last, but happy that the putt went in. 

Q.   Obviously laid it up to the right?
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, I had a tough number, 130 to the pin.   I was between a pitching wedge and sand wedge.   I was trying to hit a hard wedge, and try and hook it in there.   But it goes dead straight.   But the putt went in. 

Q.   I know you're a big fan of Mr. Hogan's.   What would it mean if your score ends up holding up?
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, that would be great.   Get to go up here on the Wall of Champions.   Got my name up on the wall last week, I didn't win last week, but a couple of years ago at the Byron to be on that Wall of Fame.   And to be on this Wall of Fame would be another great accomplishment. 
It means a lot to me to come play this event, the history it has, especially with Mr. Hogan kind of being the co‑host, so to speak.   I love coming here. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
JASON DUFNER:   I thought I played really well today, gave myself a lot of birdie chances.   Just kept it in the back of my mind that maybe one of these would go in.   And it was eerily similar to the putt I had a couple of years ago at the Byron Nelson so I felt kind of comfortable.   Luckily it went in, and I didn't have to make an attempt from a shorter distance.

Q.   How anxious are you right now waiting for the guys to come in and finish the round?
JASON DUFNER:   Not too bad.   I can't really do too much controlling them.   They don't let us play defense out here.   I'm not sure if I would be any good at defense if they did allow us. 
I thought I played really good today.   A couple of chances here and there.   But everybody has those throughout the week.   But I feel good about how I'm playing now.   I've been struggling a little bit since Augusta, really.

Q.   You've been playing consistent all week, did it all come together today?
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, I think I played really good the first round.   The first round could have been a really, really low round and the same today.   Kind of the middle rounds I was a little sloppy.   But I think the conditions were probably the toughest in the middle rounds.   So today the wind laid down a little bit.   And the course was a little bit softer.   Happy.   Three or four under on this golf course is pretty good.   It's a tough golf course.   You always see the scores in the 8 to 12 range.

Q.   (Inaudible.)   Did find yourself scoreboard watching?
JASON DUFNER:   A little bit.   I checked where I was at on 16, I think it was.   It seemed like all year, especially the last three or four years the leaderboards seem to get so bunched up, especially events like this.   The tougher golf courses it seems to just bunch up, and it seems like there's 15 guys within two or three shots every Sunday, which means that somebody's got to step up and shoot a good score.   I was trying to make it me this week, and shoot a low score.   We'll see how it goes.

Q.   Two years ago you were right there coming down the stretch.   Do you draw back on that coming down the stretch?
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, a little bit.   Me and Zach kind of separated ourselves that day.   So it was kind of more a match play type situation.   He got the best of me that time. 
I always feel good coming here.   I think it's a great golf course.   It's challenging.   I feel like if I have my good stuff, if my game is in order, I can shoot some good scores and be competitive on this golf course. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT