SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 9, 2014
Jason Dufner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   3‑under, still a pretty good score.   
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, I played okay.   I drove it bad.   Pretty lucky to shoot the score I did.   I only hit three or four fairways today.   But plodded along, putted pretty good.  
   
 Q.   How did you feel about your game coming in here?  
JASON DUFNER:   Good.   I had a good week last week.   I hit it really good.   Played a little bit better on the last day, so feeling good, and then just today couldn't get it going.  
   
 Q.   Does it take a little while to adjust from that course to this course?   
JASON DUFNER:   No, I like playing because it gets you in the mode of playing, but there's definitely a higher skill set needed to hit the fairway here because you've got a lot of shots that bend one way and end up going another way, so you're hitting different shots, which changes the way you're swinging, the irons aren't that tough, it's just getting the ball in the fairway is tricky.  
   
 Q.   I saw your Tweets the next day after Auburn's loss.   Do you sort of feel a little sense of responsibility for, hey, let's try to get a win for Auburn this week?  
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, maybe a little bit, sure, for people that follow me and follow Auburn, more excited what's going on.   But I talked to Gus a little bit, and they'll get over it once they got back into their off‑season routine, recruiting.   It's easy for us, like I said, we just have another week.   Next week is right around the corner, but they've got to wait until September.  
   
 Q.   When did you talk to him and what did you two say to each other?  
JASON DUFNER:   I talked to him right after the game, I've talked to him a couple times since.   Just trying to be encouraging because they were pretty down about how the game ended, disappointed.   It's hard, you have such a great season, and things like that‑‑ I know all those guys and the coaches felt they were going to win that game.  
   
 Q.   You're not really a rah‑rah kind of guy.   How do you encourage him?  
JASON DUFNER:   Just keep stressing what a great job he's doing, and this is just the beginning of what he has in plan for Auburn football.   This is just all part of it and stuff like that.   Got a lot of experience with failure out here.   I told him to take it from a guy who loses way more than he wins.   You'll get over it and learn from it and you'll be better because of it.  
   
 Q.   That old 2 percent of the winners get in the Hall of Fame?  
JASON DUFNER:   1 percent, and I'm about less than 1 percent.  
   
 Q.   What were your emotions like the last couple minutes of the game?  
JASON DUFNER:   It was tough.   I'm sitting there thinking we're going to blow them out, then they're fighting back, then we're down, then we take the lead with a minute 19, and I'm thinking we're going to get this, this is us, and then it didn't happen.  
   
 Q.   Scored too fast.   
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   You're just in the room with a Amanda, right?  
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   What do you do after a game like that?  
JASON DUFNER:   It's just kind of like I do with golf.   You take about 20, 30 minutes and then get over it and take a shower and get ready for bed.  
   
 Q.   Any broken lamps in the hotel room?  
JASON DUFNER:   No, I didn't get too angry.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT