HYUNDAI TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 6, 2014
Jason Dufner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Jason, nice bounce-back after the mistake there at 17.   But more importantly, are you ready for the game? 
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, I'm pretty excited.   Decent day today, nice way to finish the week.   I look forward to going to the Sony Open next week, but tonight I'll be watching my guys play some football.

Q.   Seems the game is in pretty good form, started making some putts.
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, little better with the putting, missed a couple fairways there on 16 and 17.   You've got to get the ball on the fairways.   I was able to control the ball pretty good, but Zach went out and played a great round.   He put a little pressure on me chasing.

Q.   Are your plans just to stay in the room and watch the game? 
JASON DUFNER:   Uh‑huh.

Q.   Would you normally travel back tonight? 
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, if I could have made it, I would have gone.   But with a Monday finish, it's not possible.

Q.   Amanda said last night it might get tense.   She might have to leave the room. 
JASON DUFNER:   She won't have to leave the room.   We'll be pretty locked in.   After what they went through last year, I spent a lot of time with the guys there in Auburn.   I feel where they were at last year and where they are now is a pretty amazing story.   Probably the most amazing story in sports right now.   If you were around the team and what was going on last year, it wasn't anything to be proud of, and where they're at now, I'm really proud of those guys and the coaching staff.

Q.   They've talked about having you as inspiration.   Do they inspire you also? 
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, I think so.   Being around them and the coaches I try to learn as much as I can.   The mindset they have this year changed things around and really gives you a lot of determination when you're out here making double bogeys on the 71st hole, not to get too much down and try to fight through it, because I think they've done that most of the year.

Q.   Thinking about the game, any in‑between shots? 
JASON DUFNER:   A little bit here and there.   I was trying to get a win for them today.   It didn't quite work out, but it's tough.   You're invested in a program like that and you're close to these guys, definitely the mind wanders a touch.   But I think I was pretty focused for the most part.

Q.   Predictions for tonight? 
JASON DUFNER:   I have a good feeling about it.   I think these guys have really put in the work.   I think FSU is a good team, but I think it might be our year. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT