HYUNDAI TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 5, 2014
Jason Dufner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Bunched leaderboard tomorrow, but I'm sure you're happy with your play in round three, what clicked?  
JASON DUFNER:   I've been hitting it all right, pretty good this week.   I made a couple putts there and I got some birdies going.   A little disappointed with the way I finished with a bogey on 17 and par on 18, but I'm in the mix of it.   
   
 Q.   A lot of top‑level players in contention, about eight or nine guys in the mix right now.   Does it change your strategy on how aggressive you're going to probably go at flags?   
JASON DUFNER:   I'm probably going to be behind three or four shots, and so I'm going to have to be pretty aggressive tomorrow.   I've got a nice chance and I'm in a good spot, if I can get out in front of those guys a little bit and maybe post a nice number tomorrow and the putter gets hot, I can do that.  
   
 Q.   You've had a lot of attention about your allegiance to Auburn; tomorrow is a big game.   
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, definitely.   I'm happy for those kids.   Going to be a fun night after the round of golf to watch them compete and see if they can pull out a victory.   Florida State is a pretty good team.   I think Auburn is a pretty good team so I think all the fans that are watching at home will get a good game.   
   
 Q.   If you could only pick one victory tomorrow, which one would you go with?   
JASON DUFNER:   That's a tough one.   I'd probably have to be a little selfish and go with myself unfortunately, but those guys have worked really hard.   Maybe I'd go with them because I've got at least another 25 or so events that I can pick out here to win.   It's a toss‑up really.  
   
 Q.   Thinking about, what if this goes into a playoff and you're in it tomorrow?  
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, that's going to be rough.   I'm going to maybe either go real a aggressive on the last hole and try to get a 3 or a 6 and get out there, no playoffs.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT