PGA GRAND SLAM OF GOLF
October 15, 2013
Jason Dufner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 JUSTIN ROSE67 (-4)
  JASON DUFNER69 (-2)
  ADAM SCOTT70 (-1)
  PADRAIG HARRINGTON74 (+3) 
  
JULIUS MASON:   Ladies and gentlemen, Jason Dufner with us after the first round much the PGA Grand Slam of Golf, in at 2‑under with a 69.   Jason, if you could give us some thoughts on the day, maybe talk about your birdies and the bogey and we'll go to Q&A, please.   
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, everybody kind of started off pretty good on the front nine and then back nine didn't go quite as well for most of us.   Hit it up close to the green in two on No.2 and chipped to about two feet.  
Hit a 9‑iron on 3 to about ten feet, made that.   
7, I was up on the green in two and hit a pitch to about 15 feet and made it.  
8, I hit a 7‑iron to 20 feet, 25 feet and made it.  
10, I was out of play.   Pretty much just a standard bogey.   No chance to make par.  
13 I hit a good shot, probably best shot of the day, 6‑iron to three feet and made birdie.  
14, I 3‑putted from about 60 feet for bogey.   
16 just short, not a very good chip to about 12 feet and missed.   So back nine wasn't too good, but front nine was pretty good.   
   
 Q.   How difficult was 16 playing?   It looked like it was straight downwind.   How difficult did that make club selection?   
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, I think I hit the right club.   I missed the shot obviously.   There's not very much room there on that hole.   Adam hit what looked like a good shot but he ended up making double.   
So it's a tough hole.   Obviously club selection is pretty pivotal there.   I think I had the right club.   Just tough to chip around this course, a lot of grain.   So you're dealing with that when you miss greens.   I think you saw that a little bit on the back nine, started missing greens and guys are struggling to make par.  
   
 Q.   What did you hit there?  
JASON DUFNER:   I hit 5‑iron, I think it was 206 to the front just playing downwind.   Just miss‑hit it a little bit.  
   
 Q.   I'm sure you saw Adam's lie there, a pretty tough break?  
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, a pretty good the should.   He was just off by a couple of yards, but that's what that hole can do.   There's not much room for error, and ended up getting a pretty hard kick to the right and it plugged.   You can make a mess on that hole quickly if you get a bad break.  
   
 Q.   Having a look at the course today, what do you think a winning score might be tomorrow?  
JASON DUFNER:   It's hard to say.   I thought the guys were going to shoot pretty low after our front nine‑‑ maybe Justin had 4‑under or 3‑under, something like that.   I think 6‑ or 7‑under could have been leading after today and we all indicate kind of felt back a little bit.   
Justin picked one up in the back.   It's a course where if you can get going, you can shoot a 6‑, 7‑, 8‑under.   Just depends what the weather is like tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   If you can talk a little about the greens, because it seemed on the back nine, they made a lot of difference.   
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, this they seemed to speed up a little bit from the day.   The winds maybe dried them out a little bit.   For me it seemed like I kept having putts downgrain, downwind which obviously makes them pretty quick.   Maybe the hole locations were a little bit tougher on the back nine but the back nine played tougher for us as a group.  
   
 Q.   Is the difference in scoring between the two nines just one of those things that happens, or do you get the sense that the back nine really requires much more attention and there are many more challenging shots and holes out there?  
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, I think so.   I think the hole locations were probably a little bit tougher on the back nine.   10 was tucked back there in that corner.   11, same thing.   12 is right on the front, straight down.   14 is a tough hole with the wind going left‑to‑right.   16 obviously is pretty tough.   
17 is pretty tough for me.   I don't feel like I can get there in two with a 3‑wood off the tee.   Then I've got to risk bringing the water into play.   
So I think the back nine, the hole locations were a little bit tougher.   The course firmed up a little bit.   Just played a little bit tougher I think.   Will probably be a little bit consistent tomorrow, too.  
JULIUS MASON:   Did we see you limping out there today?   
JASON DUFNER:   I'm beat up.   Tough golf course to walk.   Like I said earlier, I've played a lot of golf since July.   And it's great to be here and I'm going to get through it, and I'm looking forward to getting some time off here in the future.   July.  
JULIUS MASON:   Thanks for coming in.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT