TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP BY COCA-COLA
September 22, 2013
Keegan Bradley
Jason Dufner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   It came across very well on television, but, Keegan, the hole‑out on No.7, walk us through the whole process.   In any way was it premeditated?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   No, I've wanted to do it all year.   I thought, if I get the chance to do it, I'm going to do it.   I didn't expect to make that shot.   
I told Duff, I don't care what happens.   It was the highlight of the year for me.   
JASON DUFNER:   It's pretty sad his highlight of the year involves me.  
   
 Q.   It's interesting the highlight of your year, he was there waiting for you when you were walking off the green.   
JASON DUFNER:   You know, it's fun.   We had a little side bet this year on total hole‑outs, which is a stat out on Tour.   Coming into the day, he was one up.   And then he holes out there on 7, and that was pretty much it.   
It was hard for me to hole out today because I didn't miss any greens.  
   
 Q.   Did you guys mention this hole‑out bet today, before that?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, he did.   He was saying he was going to hole a shot out.   He was walking up the first hole saying he was going to hole out and tie me, but he didn't.   
He hit it too good to chip in.   He was right.   So that was disappointing.   But it was a fun day.  
   
 Q.   How long after the ball went in did you say I'm going to Dufner?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   A second.   I don't know.   It was instinct to just do it.   I can't believe he was in the group.   It was fun.   It was fun.  
   
 Q.   How was your reaction when you saw him sitting in the middle of the fairway?   
JASON DUFNER:   I was pissed because he holed out and he went past me on the leaderboard and took a two‑up advantage in total hole‑outs.   
It was pretty lucky the hole‑out shot like that from the fairway.  
   
 Q.   And for you be in the group on the last?   
JASON DUFNER:   Even better.  
   
 Q.   What would the Keegan be?   Do you think in any way he could go viral with the Keegan?   
JASON DUFNER:   No.   He's not that popular.   
   
 Q.   Just a couple of questions on the Presidents Cup, guys.   Both of you guys are making your debut next week.   Can you talk us through your mindset going in, especially with team USA's recent domination.   Is it important for the international league to come out with more of a fight for the competition?   
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, I would think so.   I think it's a good competition across the board.   I know the United States has had a lot of success in that event.   Both teams look pretty strong.   We've got a lot of guys on our team that are playing well right now, same for them.   
I think as a player you kind of want the competition to be close and see where you stack up, but I think either way it goes, the competition is still pretty strong.   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, they got great players on that team.   I think that this is going to be a competitive Presidents Cup, a lot of guys playing well, a course that we've all played a million times.   
So I think that this will be a good event for sure.  
   
 Q.   Really quick, if you guys see yourselves being partners next week?   
JASON DUFNER:   Absolutely not.   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I would, he wouldn't.   He said I get too excited.  
   
 Q.   The international team has a lot of rookies.   You two.   There's two more for Team USA.   It seems like the American rookies aren't much of rookies at all.   You guys have had a lot of success recently.   Overall, do you think you have an advantage going in in that department as far as what you guys have been through the last year or two years?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Well, I wouldn't consider Duff or I rookies because we played in the Ryder Cup, but I think that, to be a true rookie at these team events, I think that you can't‑‑ if you've played in a Ryder Cup before, it's similar atmosphere and competition.   
I think we got a lot of‑‑ both sides have got a lot of great players.   We've got a lot of guys on the U.S. team that have had a lot of success at Muirfield.   
JASON DUFNER:   We have a very solid team for sure.  
   
 Q.   Guys, there seems to be a lot of interest in Spieth as partners.   Not trying to get any team secrets here, but did you talk to Spieth about that in terms of wanting to play with him or what you think he brings to the team as a kid who's so young?   
JASON DUFNER:   I haven't spoken to him about it.   He's a great player.   He's got a lot of fire.   He's going to be fired up for the Presidents Cup, to be part of that team.   
I'd love to play with him.   He's playing great right now.   So that's a bonus.   But we'll let the captain make that decision.   
The players kind of have some input, I think, as far as who they want to play with.   You never know who he's thinking he might want to play with.   I think the way he's playing, anybody you pair him with should be a good team.   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I think that Spieth is‑‑ he's the type of guy you'd want to partner with.   He hits the ball straight, has a very good putter.   
I'm not sure who he's going to partner with, but I think he fits in with a lot of guys.   I can see him with an older guy maybe.   That helped me a lot in the Ryder Cup playing with Phil, having an experienced guy with me.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT