DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 1, 2013
Jason Dufner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   5‑under, 39 on the front nine?
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, good way to start.   It was a pretty long day.   Pace of play was pretty slow out there.   It was tough.   I think we got three 31s and two 35s to matchup.   I've got to put it together tomorrow.

Q.   Seemed like the play on the front nine to the back nine are two totally different rounds.   Is it hard to get into a rhythm on the back nine?
JASON DUFNER:   A little bit.   I hit it pretty good.   I had a lot of looks, five or six pretty good opportunities for birdie, couldn't make any of them.   Maybe the greens, with all the play we've had today and the soft, gets tougher to make those putts in those conditions.   But tomorrow probably the same thing, so just got to get through it. 

Q.   How did the course play?
JASON DUFNER:   With the conditions, with the rain we had this morning, ball in our hand in the fairways, we're going to put some low scores up on this golf course.   It's not playing too long. 
Greens are very receptive.   A lot of greens had funnel situations, where if you get it in the right distance the ball is going to get close and you're going to have good looks at birdies.

Q.   (Inaudible.)
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, you know, you feel like if you only shoot a couple under, around par, you're going to get leapfrogged.   You've got a lot of birdie holes out there.   I got off to a hot start today.   Both of my playing partners didn't get off to the best start but they made birdies on the back.   There's lots of birdies all through the golf course.   The key is to stay patient and keep giving yourself good looks.

Q.   Thoughts going into tomorrow?
JASON DUFNER:   Probably going to need another low one, same conditions, high humidity, chance of rain again.   The course is going to be soft.   Guys are going to be going at pins, probably be ball‑in‑hand again.   So you've going to have to shoot low scores.   I think Sergio is at 18, 17 up, something like that.   So you're going to have to get in those low 20s to have a chance.

Q.   (Inaudible.)
JASON DUFNER:   I did pretty good.   I missed some putts on the back nine I wish I had made.   I had a three‑putt back there.   Wish I had two or three more.   Definitely was doable, but couldn't get a birdie on the back nine.   A little disappointed with that, but still in good position for tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT