PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 10, 2013
Jason Dufner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   (Inaudible)?
JASON DUFNER:   The golf course played a little bit tougher today than yesterday.   The wind picked up a little bit, which made club selection difficult, came out of the northwest which we hadn't seen since earlier in the week which throws you for a loop there on some of the holes. 
But hung in there.   It could have gone sideways quick there after the fifth hole.   You have got some difficult holes right there, 6 and 7 are pretty tough.   I put it together. 
Played pretty good on the back nine, had a couple of looks I wish I would have made a better run at.   Fortunate to have a ball on 18 kind of sneak in the back side of the cup and go in for a par. 
In good position, playing in the last group.   Hopefully the golf course will get a little bit tougher and we'll see how it goes.

Q.   How do you like being in the final group?
JASON DUFNER:   You know, I think I'm one back, so we'll just have to play it by ear.   Stay with the same strategy the first nine holes and see where that puts me. 
The fans out here are great.   A lot of people were out there following Adam and I today.   The support has been great.   It will be a lot of fun. 
Jim is a great guy.   He's a great competitor.   He's been in this position a bunch.   This is a couple of times for me.   So I look forward to going at it tomorrow in the last group.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
JASON DUFNER:   You know, I think the ball striking part has been pretty good this week.   That is advantage for me.   The putter let me down a little bit today.   I putted pretty good yesterday, putted pretty good the first day.   So I've got to get better the putter, got to get better with my pace.   I'm leaving a lot of these uphill putts short, not getting the speed that I want.   Work on that tomorrow before I get to the course and head out.

Q.   The leaderboard is bunched up still, will you pay attention to that tomorrow? 
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, I watch the leaderboard a little bit.   I think it's important to know where you at, where you stand.   That plays in the strategy a little bit, I think. 
I'm not trying to have a Top‑5 or Top‑10 out here.   I'm trying to win this thing.   So that plays an important part.   I'll probably poke around maybe around the seventh or eighth hole and see where I'm at. 
When the back nine comes, you've really got to look and see where you're at because it dictates how you might play and how aggressive you want to go at some hole locations or how you might play some holes.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, I don't think there is a guy out here when you are playing in these major championships that doesn't feel the pressure.   You want to play well.   There is a lot at stake to play well.   There is a lot of pressure.   Some guys show it; some guys hide it.   Me and Jim hide it pretty well.   It's just guys deal with it differently.   I think it just comes from your personalities.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
JASON DUFNER:   I've just always been that way.   There's been couple of times today where I was pretty frustrated with things, little I guess perturbed, you could say, with the way things were going.   You know, in a major championship especially you have got to plod a long. 
Par is a pretty good score.   Made a lot of pars today.   It keeps you in it.   If you lose your head out there you can lose track.   All of a sudden you are kicking yourself the next day because you are out of the tournament.   I think it's important to stay even keel for the most part.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
JASON DUFNER:   You just get over it.   You walk to the next shot.   You might talk to yourself sternly on the way and then when you get ready for the next stop, you go.   That's a great attribute with a lot of golfers out here is to be able to put things behind them and move on to the next thing whether ‑‑ you'd like it to be every shot.   Sometimes it's the next round or the next tournament. 
There is a lot of guys that ‑‑ only one guy wins, so there's a lot of disappointment out here for 155 guys each week.   I think that's a trait golfers kind of pick up if you are going to be a pro out here and playing for a living.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, you know, I had a tough finish there.   But I knew going into 18 I had to make par or possibly birdie to win or get in a playoff.   I was able to do that and then Keegan played pretty good in the playoff.   I played pretty good and he ended up beating me by a shot.
You've got to let things go out here, especially in these majors.   Really just plod along and do your best.

Q.   Would you say you had fun out there today?
JASON DUFNER:   It was enjoyable at certain points of the round, not enjoyable at other points.   It's tough to be out there competing for these championships.   It's what I've always practiced for and what I've always dreamed for.   In that sense, it's fun.   But these golf courses put a lot of stress on your game.   You have got to be really prepared and when doubt creeps in to kind of put that in another spot in your mind and be confident.   It's kind of a tussle out there between yourself and your mind.   You'd like to get some birdies early so you can get a little bit more comfortable. 

Q.   (Inaudible)?
JASON DUFNER:   I have been pretty good with being consistent with my routine.   I will be focused on my routine just like any other event and get ready to play.   I think that's what's gotten me here so far.   I think that's what going to be successful tomorrow. 
I'm pretty good at putting today behind me and moving on to tomorrow and follow the routine that I've had for the last five or sixyears.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT