PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 9, 2013
Jason Dufner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JASON DUFNER:   Obviously had a fantastic day today in a major championship, chased a little bit of history.   Came up a little short on that last putt, but all in all I'm excited.   The position I'm in, the golf course has obviously yielded some low scores and I'm looking forward to continuing good play here on the weekend.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, a little bit.   You know, we got a good break yesterday.   It was a little bit scorable in the morning, no wind, smooth greens. 
Then to come out and see the guys playing in the rain early today and then you look at the forecast and you see the rain is going to go away, so you have got a smile on your face.   It's always good to catch those types of breaks in a major championship.

Q.   (Inaudible)? 
JASON DUFNER:   What's that? 

Q.   One better than Ben? 
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, you know, Mr. Hogan, Mr. Strange, I guess had shared the course record here at 64.   To break the record here at a great place like Oak Hill with all the history, all the great players that have played here, it's a pretty remarkable feat, I think, and something that I'll always remember.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
JASON DUFNER:   I felt good all day.   I hit a bad drive on 7.   I was trying to be aggressive because it was so soft.   I have been driving it reasonably well.   I thought I could be aggressive, get them in the fairways.   You've got a little bit more room because it's not chasing.   I hit one in the water there, cut a 4‑iron around under the tree around to about 40 feet and made it. 
When you do that type of stuff, holing out a shot, making 40‑footers, you know that the day is going to be pretty special. 
I actually struggled a little on the front side finding fairways, but I knew that I was swinging pretty good so the back nine was going to be a good go.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
JASON DUFNER:   At 17, I had a great putt.   Looking to make 4 there.   I had good look at it.   I gave it a good run, just didn't quite slide to the right like it did. 
Then 18, you couldn't have a better putt for a 62 and I left it short in the jar.

Q.   When did you start thinking you had a chance to make history?
JASON DUFNER:   Obviously you are trying to play shot by shot and do the best you can.   I knew I had a makeable putt on 15 to get 7‑under. 
Then 16 is kind of a birdie hole, if you can get it in the fairway.   So I knew I had a chance if I could get that one on 15.   Then I hit a great shot on 16. 
And then you are chasing history there and trying to get as many as you can for the championship.   So you know, right around that stretch, 14, 15, 16, I knew that I had a chance to do if I could hit some good shots.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, a little bit.   It's tough when you're chasing history.   You will be the first one to do something.   I don't think I've been the first to do anything in my life.   So it was a little nerve wracking for a Friday.   It's usually the pressure you might fell towards the end of the tournament. 
But I got through it.   I made a couple of pars, and I wish I had that putt on the last hole back again.

Q.   You take a lot of ribbing for being so laid back.   What are you like on the inside?
JASON DUFNER:   Probably like anybody else.   You are trying to be out here and win a tournament, trying to hit good shots.   There is some nerves out there.   You have got to be confident with it. 
Today is a good example of what I can use in the future for the rest of this week.   Trying to chase the history maybe can help me out this weekend trying to chase this championship. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT