WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 3, 2013
Jason Dufner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Just kind of a bad ending, but how do you feel overall about today's round?  
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, the first three days have been pretty good.   I'm right there up close to the top of the leaderboard, not really close to what Tiger is doing, though.   Pretty solid golf for me.   I've been struggling a little bit this year, but it's nice to get here and put some good scores and some good rounds.  
   
 Q.   Do you guys ever think about what a great tournament this would be if Tiger ran away with it?  
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, he has a pretty good track record here.   There's quite a few events out here that he does really well.   Torrey Pines comes to mind, Bay Hill comes to mind, Memorial.   So he obviously feels comfortable on those courses, and it's our job to try and chase him down if we can.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about the type of start you had?  
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, it's a course you feel like you can get at a little bit, so it was nice to get off to that nice start.   I hit some really great shots there on the first four holes, you know, that 4‑ to 8‑foot range, birdie looks.   So it was a great way to start, and you've got to make some birdies if you're going to catch a guy who's got a nine‑shot lead on you.  
   
 Q.   You seem to be the kind of guy with the temperament not to be intimidated if Tiger‑‑ when he's running away.   Would you agree?   
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, you know, you guys are out here just playing.   It's tough when a guy is at 15‑under and he's got a seven‑shot lead.   This will be a heck of a tournament for the fans and everybody out here if he wasn't playing, but that's not the case right now.   He's the type of golfer that can do this to these golf courses, and as players you've got to try and respond with what you can to try and catch him.   It's a tough task.   
   
 Q.   Have you played with him before?   
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, I've played a bunch with him actually.   We played some stuff in the Ryder Cup, practice rounds, played a couple competitive rounds.   Got to know him a little bit through the Ryder Cup and just being close in pairings and stuff like that.  
   
 Q.   I just wondered if you still feel he's got an aura.   
JASON DUFNER:   You know, I don't think guys think about that too much.   All you can do is take your hat off to him after yesterday's rounds.   It's a pretty unbelievable round of golf.   He's showing the world and us where he's at right now with his game this week.   
   
 Q.   Still heard a few O‑Hs out there?  
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, a lot of support.   It's great to be back here in northeast Ohio and playing pretty well.   
   
 Q.   Nobody barked out there, did they?  
JASON DUFNER:   No, I didn't hear that.  
 


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT