WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 1, 2013
Jason Dufner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   (Inaudible.)
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, last year about the same type of round to start the week.   Good golf course for me, feel all right with my game, and got around in 3‑under.   Let a couple get away there on some of the scoring holes on the front.   But made birdie on 7 and 9, which you don't normally do.

Q.   Why is this a good course for you?
JASON DUFNER:   You know, it's just pretty tight off the tee.   I feel like I can be aggressive with my driver, which gives me some shorter clubs into these greens, and then some of the hole locations can be tough as the week goes on.   I feel confident with my driver on this course, and that makes me be able to aggressive and have shorter clubs in.

Q.   You had no bogeys?
JASON DUFNER:   I made bogey on 4. 

Q.   It's been a long time since you lived here, but do you have people here? 
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, I have some family and relatives and friends here that come out and support.   There's probably 15, 20 people here, and I hear a lot of good support out there.   People know I was born here and I lived here for a while and still have some family here, so it's always good to come back to northeast Ohio.

Q.   Would you go over your birdies and bogey?
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, I birdied 11, hit it about a foot. 
14, I made about a 20‑footer. 
I bogeyed 4, missed about a 5‑, 6‑footer for par, chipped in on 7 from just over the back and had a tap‑in on 9.

Q.   You had a couple other longer ones that you just missed.   Are you pleased with your round?
JASON DUFNER:   My speed has been real good, trying to focus on the pace of the ball rolls.   Good speed.   You keep dying the ball around the hole they're bound to go in sooner or later.   Of course any golfer is going to say they could have had two or three better, but I'm happy.

Q.   (Inaudible.)
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, exactly, ball‑striking is pretty consistent and even the bad stuff is pretty good.   I've just got to find a way to putt a little better.   Been working on it the last couple months, and sometimes it takes that long for it to come around. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT