U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 16, 2013
Jason Dufner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Finding six birdies out there is an accomplishment the way this golf course is playing?
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, there's definitely some birdie holes out here.   You wouldn't expect to birdie six of them on one round.   But I birdied five of what I termed to be the easier holes on this golf course.
Unfortunately that front nine yesterday, and one bad swing on 15 today is probably going to end me up a few short.

Q.   (Inaudible.)
JASON DUFNER:   It's a tough tee shot, especially with the wind today.   The wind is pushing the ball to the bunkers where you don't want to be.   You've got out of bounds off the fairway.   Guys are going to have a hard time finding the fairway, a club that's comfortable being in the fairway.   Of the last holes for me, that's probably the toughest, that wind going left‑to‑right is tough for me.   And 16, 17, 18, no bargains, obviously there either.

Q.   We talked to Rory and we asked him if he thought the pin placements were fair.   He said right on the edge, would you agree with that?
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, I would agree with that.   Especially on the short holes the pins were really, really tough.   They were a couple of paces from where the flat spaces of the greens might be, they might tack it up a ridge a little bit.   So I think the weather kind of factored into that.   I think if we had a little bit firmer and faster, you might have seen them in more level spots.

Q.   What do you think of the week here?   I know it's a smaller place, what did you think of the whole week here?
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, the fans here in Philadelphia were great.   Obviously it's been a while since they had a Major event here in the area.   So they were excited about it. 
I think the USGA did about as good as they could with the weather we had, and the situation with the clubhouse and the property being so small.   I think everything went as good as planned for that. 
I think the golf course was set up pretty fair for the most part.   There are some holes that they kind of pushed a little bit that really challenged you.   But then there are some easier holes out here if you can be in the fairway.

Q.   Do you want it to be back here, would you like to see it back?
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, it would be nice.   I don't know if it really matters.   To me I don't know if I'll be playing golf by then.   I might be out of golf.   I really enjoyed being here.   There's a lot of great history with this golf course.   So I'm glad that I was able to play in this Open.

Q.   Do you think they figured out something about the course today that you didn't know earlier in the week or was it something technical with your game that really had you going?
JASON DUFNER:   I felt pretty good all week, just had a rough year where I can't get anything going.   I had a really nice birdie on the first hole and made a great par on 3.   And then made some birdies.   So it was‑‑ if I miss either one of those putts early in the day, it might have been a different story.   But it was nice having some things going my way.

Q.   Looks like your front nine could be lower?
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, I had tons and tons of birdie putts inside ten feet.   I don't know the exact number.   But I had lots of opportunities for birdie, which is good.   I'm happy with my game, I just have to figure out how to get a couple of putts fall.

Q.   What makes that tee shot on 15 so difficult?
JASON DUFNER:   It's a tough angle.   You've got out of bounds literally one pace from the fairway, which is a little unnerving.   And it's kind of a hole that you feel like you want to push at it off the tee, because the green is very severe.   It could be one of your last realistic birdie chances with a scoring club.   But as I learned today, you can definitely pay the price for pushing it.

Q.   Are you surprised that the winning score is going to be even par or even worse than that?
JASON DUFNER:   No, I'm not.   You've got tons of rough out there, which you guys have seen.   You've got greens that are severely sloped, running at 13, 13 and a half.   We had some wind today, which made it tough.   And there's not many run‑ups.   So if you're in the rough you have a forced carry, which makes it more difficult.
The toughest thing, I think, was when you got birdie chances inside of 15 feet, the majority of the time you were playing defense, to be honest with you, depending on the hole location and where you were, which is tough for us because we're used to having 15 feet and going for it.   They had to do what they had to do to make the scoring where they want it.   I know they don't say that they do that, but it seems to work out that way every year. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT