WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 22, 2018
Jason Dufner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You knew you had to win this one to have shot on Friday.  Well done.  You were down early in the match, but came back on the back nine.  Your thoughts on how it went out there.
JASON DUFNER: Yeah, the conditions a little bit tougher today with the wind.  So kind of try to get it in play.  Got down early, but kind of clawed my way back into it.
13 was kind of pivotal in our match.  He went for it and didn't quite make it.  I was back to even there and then you are kind of back in the ball game.
Obviously you lose the first match, you have got a low percentage chance of moving on.  You need to win the next match, so glad I did it.
Q. Let's talk about the strategy on 13.  He teed off first, saw him put it in the water.  Does that change your strategy?  If you would have put it near the green, does that make things different?
JASON DUFNER: No.  I don't go for that hole.  I can't cover the hazard there into the wind.  It's a lay-up hole for me because of that wind.  Try to wedge it close, obviously.
Q. How difficult was it out here compared to yesterday with the winds?
JASON DUFNER: It's tough, especially on the first nine holes.  The wind kind of circles around in that valley up there on the mountain.  It's hard to pick clubs and you are hoping that you pick the right ones and you are not sure until the ball comes down on the green.  It makes it challenging.
I kind of prefer it like this, I can scoot it around off the tee and get some distance and these conditions make it a little bit tougher.
Q. Battled it out.  Yesterday you scratched and clawed to try to come back and fell one short.  Today you knocked it out and got back to even.
JASON DUFNER: Yeah, I needed a point today.  Losing the first match, you have got less than a 20 percent chance of moving on.  The last couple of years in this pool format, you definitely need to win that next day.  Half a point, you might have a chance.  So it was good to get a point today.  Move on to tomorrow and see if we can get another.
Q. Do you enjoy this match play versus stroke play?
JASON DUFNER: Yeah, it's a little different.  I wasn't really sure where my game was yesterday but I kind of got through it and thought I played okay.
Today Jason, a great match play player.  He probably didn't play as well as he liked and I played pretty consistent.  I like the format.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT