ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 25, 2013
Jason Dufner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Jason, assess what you did today?   
JASON DUFNER:   I played all right.   The golf course is a good bit different than what we're used to.   We've got a north wind today, which I think I've only played once in my years here.   It's pretty scorable, but obviously, it's a lot different with the shots you're hitting into certain hole location with the wind completely out of a different direction.  
   
 Q.   You mentioned the wind.   Did the wet weather affect the course at all?   
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, it played a little bit longer.   Some holes that we're used to playing downwind were into the wind today.   So the course played longer and played really different than what I'm accustomed to here in New Orleans.  
   
 Q.   You won it last year.   You're used to a nice sized galley.   But first round playing with Bubba, how was that galley?   
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, it was good.   We picked up some guys there at the turn.   7:30 you don't get too many people out here watching golf.   But I'm getting used to playing in crowds now.   Playing in the big events and playing with better players, I tend not to notice it too much.  
   
 Q.   How does the whole north wind thing change your approach, Jason, as far as what you're doing?   
JASON DUFNER:   I don't think it's going to change it anymore this week because I think it's out of here after today.   Just got to try to figure out some better lines.   17 is playing really tough.   9 is playing really tough, because if you want to get close or get it on the green, you have to start it out in that water which isn't really comfortable.   It's just an adjustment.   Obviously with the rain yesterday, of course, the ball didn't chase that much.  
   
 Q.   How are the greens, and how did you feel about your putting?   
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, the greens were probably a little bit slower and softer than whatever used to out here, again, because of the weather.   I felt like I made some putts and missed a couple.   A pretty average day.  
   
 Q.   Assess your game and where you're at right now with the ability to possibly repeat here after one day?   
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, I feel good with my game.   I never feel I'm too far away from playing really well.   I had to figure out how to get a bad round out of the four that I've been having so far.   Maybe get another putt or two to drop each day.   
I'm not too far off.   I just wanted to get around the course today without really doing any damage and try to get under par.  
   
 Q.   (No microphone)?  
JASON DUFNER:   No, I'm used to missing putts like that.   It happens usually two or three times a week.   So not a shocker to me.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT