MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 12, 2013
Jason Dufner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Lively day. 
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, we had some showers that we had to deal with.   They softened up the course.   But after that front came through, the wind started picking up, dried the course out pretty quickly.   Different wind direction today than what it's been in the practice rounds and the first round.   So it was a difficult day to be on the course. 

Q.   How did you feel?
JASON DUFNER:   Pretty good.   The iron play's been really good.   Chipping and pitching has been pretty good.   The driver and putter could be a little bit better.   If I can get them a little bit better, I'll be right where I want to be.

Q.   What do you think you're looking at in terms of tomorrow, condition‑wise?
JASON DUFNER:   If it keeps drying out like this it's going to play firm and fast, the greens are getting a little bit firmer.   So I would suspect the course would be a little bit firmer, a little bit faster, but they do a pretty good job about trying to keep it consistent throughout the week.

Q.   On a day like this, mentally, how exhausting is it?
JASON DUFNER:   It's pretty rough.   You make a birdie and you feel like you're going to string something together and maybe put a run at it for the first two days; and then all of a sudden you make a bogey or two and you start worrying about, am I going to keep making bogeys throughout the day. 
So I had a couple mistakes, luckily I didn't make too many bogeys and seemed like every time I made a bogey I rebounded with a birdie. 

Q.   I was going to say how important was that birdie on 11. 
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, it's pretty important.   I hit an awful tee shot on 10 and made bogey there.   And then all of a sudden I make a 40‑footer on 11.   So that was nice. 
Then a 3‑putt on 12 and then a birdie on 13.   So it was good to rebound with the birdies, just keep looking at it in a positive manner. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
JASON DUFNER:   I seen a lot of guys hole out there.   You don't have too many of them and I thought any time I get a chance I would take it.   But a birdie on 9 is pretty good.

Q.   So overall your feelings?
JASON DUFNER:   Feeling pretty good.   I got to get the putter going a little bit better.   I've been hitting some wayward drives.   It seems like I if I hit a bad drive it's a really, really poor drive.   I need to clean that up.   My iron play has been really good.








END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT