MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2013
Jason Dufner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JASON DUFNER:   It's always good to come out here, obviously a tradition in this tournament to have this little tournament.   So it's fun to have my wife caddying for me.

Q.   What's her name?
JASON DUFNER:   Amanda.

Q.   I heard you had a little money came there.   How did had a come out? 
JASON DUFNER:   No money game.   It would have come out bad for me.   I haven't made a birdie yet on this par‑3.   It's tougher than the real course almost. 

Q.   How is your game?   Leading last year up to the second round.   Did you learn a lot from that experience? 
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, you know, the game is all right.   I had a little rust coming in.   I hadn't played in a couple of weeks, but slowly getting better each day.   Hopefully we'll be ready for tomorrow.   Tee it up and go.

Q.   What did you make of the whole "Dufnering" thing?
JASON DUFNER:   Pretty neat.   I didn't have to do much.   It was being kind of normal and my wife gets to see me doing that quite a bit, so she wasn't impressed.

Q.   What are you thinking, man? 
JASON DUFNER:   Not much.   I just kind of ran with it and let it go.   I didn't have to do much.   A lot of press for not doing anything.

Q.   Does it bother you, though, that you've‑‑ people probably know you more for Dufnering than being‑‑
JASON DUFNER:   I think it's a pretty good mix.   Have had some good results and people I'm a pretty good golfer and it adds to the personality that I have out here and the persona that I have, so people can identify both with the play and now with the Dufnering.

Q.   It's had a pretty good life?
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, it's still going pretty strong.

Q.   Have you seen anybody do it out here this week?
JASON DUFNER:   Oh, yeah.   A lot of guys have been doing it.

Q.   Fans or golfers?
JASON DUFNER:   Both.   No golfers, just fans.

Q.   What is your favorite one so far that you've seen?
JASON DUFNER:   I had a guy that was on a transport plane in the military and they dropped the bottom part out and they were about 20,000feet in the air and he was doing it right on the back end of the plane.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
JASON DUFNER:   You know, I don't know. Probably not.   It's going to be a lot of nervous energy and just anticipation of the week when you get on that first tee when you are playing this event.

Q.   Do you feel really good about the course now that you've played it a few times? 
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, I think I got a pretty good understanding of what you need to do out here.   There is a lot of idiosyncrasies on the golf course that make it a challenge, little things that people don't really know about that make it a test. 

Q.   Can you give me one?
JASON DUFNER:   You know, you never have a flat lie anywhere on the golf course, which makes it pretty tough for the iron shots.   Mowing back into the green makes the iron shots tougher, too.

Q.   How comfortable is that position?   Does that feel good? 
JASON DUFNER:   The one against the wall does.   The one they had me in before didn't.   I was sitting Indian style.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT