TAMPA BAY CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY EVERBANK
March 15, 2013
Jason Dufner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   5‑under par, what was going right for you?
JASON DUFNER:   A little bit of everything.   When I hit some good shots I was able to take advantage and make some birdies.   Hit some poor shots and I was able to make some pars and nice saves.   It was a decent day.   Played better but I was able to score well yesterday on the second nine and 18 today.

Q.   This is a time when you normally play well; is there any particular reason for it? 
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, starting to get some rounds under my belt.   Did a little different thing this year, went overseas early in the year and came back a little bit tired after that.   I've been working to try and get feeling better and playing a little bit more here in the States. 
So, you know, I always seem to play well down here in Florida.   I grew up down here, so I was pretty comfortable playing down here. 

Q.   Nice up‑and‑down on 18.   How did you get the ball to roll at the end? 
JASON DUFNER:   I didn't think I made it and it kind of just snuck in there at the end.   The greens out here are pretty tough inside of ten feet, you get some putts with a lot of break.   So it was nice for that one to go in, finish with a par and look forward to the weekend. 

Q.   How did you assess your play today? 
JASON DUFNER:   I tack advantage of some good shots that I hit out there, made some nice saves when I needed to, great up‑and‑down on the last hole to keep the round together.   Pretty decent day.   Scored probably better than I played but sometimes that happens.

Q.   How much easier is this golf course today, a little warmer and not nearly as much wind?
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, we are able to take our sweaters off.   The weather has been pretty tough out here this year so far on TOUR.   We have been dealing with cold weather and a lot of wind, which was the case yesterday which made this golf course firm and fast. 
But today it was kind of calm and it warmed up there midway through the round.   So it was nice to get out in some normal weather and actually see where your game is at.

Q.   What has clicked in the last couple weeks for you? 
JASON DUFNER:   Biggest thing is probably short game.   Been making a lot of par, saving my rounds.   Haven't been lighting it up, feeling like I'm going to shoot 5‑ or 6‑under every day but to clean those rounds up with some good days and be a little bit tougher out there and make some saves when you really need to can really get your round together.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT