COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 25, 2013
Jason Dufner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, a little bit better, got off to a pretty solid start, was 6‑under through 11 and just stalled out there.   Wish I could have gotten a couple more under for the day, but nice, productive day going into the final round tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Is this a similar story Abu Dhabi, getting used to conditions, course, making that move at the weekend?   
    JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, a little bit.   I struggled with my putter the first two days out here.   Didn't really hole many putts.   Been working on it a good bit and starting to feel a bit better and today was a nice improvement on the greens.  
   
 Q.   I take it those greens have been a bit bumpy at times but any green will take a little time to get used to.   
    JASON DUFNER:   Definitely, the first day was a challenge and the last two days I've been out a little bit early so it's been a little bit smoother out there but tomorrow will probably be in the afternoon again.   So we'll just take it as it goes and try to putt a good round in.   
    It's nice, when you're playing pretty decent, you never feel like you're too far off from shooting a low score.   I've been over here a couple weeks and haven't had a really, really low score, so maybe tomorrow will be the day.  
   
 Q.   Get the impression you think there is one coming?   
    JASON DUFNER:   Sooner or later.   You play a lot of round out here, so you never know when you're going to get that one that you're looking for, but it will be nice to finish up here the final round with a nice round.  
   
 Q.   Have you got a sense of what life is like in this part of the world?   
    JASON DUFNER:   Not too much.   I don't think too many people hit the hotels and hit the golf course all day.   Been over here a couple weeks, it's been nice.   The people have been great.   The tournaments are well run and it's a good place to come over and play for a couple weeks.  
   
 Q.   You couldn't ask for much better than this weather, could you?  
    JASON DUFNER:   No, the weather has been great this week in Doha.   I've heard some stories about some winds picking up so I was a little apprehensive about what might hold this week, but the winds have been down, which has been nice to get out there and hit some good shots.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT