ISPS HANDA PERTH INTERNATIONAL
October 21, 2012
Jason Dufner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JASON DUFNER:   Bo played really good today, put a lot of pressure on me to make something happen, couldn't quite do it.   The par 5s are probably the difference on the back nine, probably the par 5s all day.   I had a chance for eagle on 3 and we ended up tying the hole with a chip‑in on 4, and he makes a 20‑footer, we tie the hole.   And he birdies both of them on the back nine, I made par.   
So you do those things, little things here and there each day, which I did each day, you're going to have a hard chance winning when someone plays as well as bow did.  
   
 Q.   Was 15 perhaps a key hole when he birdied that one?   
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, I was in between clubs, tried to hold it against the wind and wasn't able to do it.   Got in the bunker where you're pretty much dead.   So get it on the green and go from there.   
   
 Q.   Trip overall, enjoyed yourself?   
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, it's been a good trip.   It's good to get back out and compete and nice to be in the hunt after a couple weeks off and after The Ryder Cup.   So you know, nothing to be ashamed of.   Just got to tighten up a couple things.   
   
 Q.   Do you enjoy those match‑play situations?   
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, it was not too bad.   We kind of got into that situation on the back nine.   It looked like we had separated ourselves a little bit, and I tried to do some things to try to put some heat on him, but he always responded with a birdie or good par save, whatever he needed to do, he pretty much did it today.  
   
 Q.   When you have a two‑shot swing like you did on 14, does that reinvigorate you, or do you know that things change very quickly?   
JASON DUFNER:   It helps you out a little bit going into that par 5, you know you need probably birdie and you're still going to be one back.   That's probably one of the easiest holes out on the golf course.   
So make a par there probably swung it a little bit.   Just a couple things there on the back nine, which I wish would have went different but wasn't that way.   
   
 Q.   Would you like to come back?   
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, you know, I'm always open to coming back to Australia and playing.   There's so many great events this time of year, so it's hard to commit so far in advance.   You just kind of have to figure out what your schedule might be and kind of pick your spots, so to speak, of where you want to play and when you have a chance to play.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT