ISPS HANDA PERTH INTERNATIONAL
October 20, 2012
Jason Dufner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  STEVE TODD:     Jason, thanks for joining us again today.   67 today puts you in contention going into tomorrow.   Your thoughts on today?   
JASON DUFNER:   It was a nice day.   Golf course got a bit firmer, faster, the wind picked up a little bit.   I think probably today, holes locations were probably the most difficult we've seen this week.   
So it was a nice day to get a good score and move up and have a realistic chance of not having to do anything crazy tomorrow and being in contention to try to win the tournament.   
STEVE TODD:   You picked up a bit of momentum just around the turn there, chip‑in on 7.   Just talk us through that stretch of holes.  
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, sometimes in the middle of a round, something happens that kind of spurs you to some better play, kind of got a little bit of a tough break on 7 on my tee ball.   Thought it would be in the fairway but hung up in the rough which put me a good ways back and I ended up getting into a bunker a good way from the hole, 70 yards or so and hit it over the back and then chipped in.   
So not really thinking that you're going to make birdie; in your mind you're almost feeling like maybe bogey might come on on a pretty easy hole.   Chipped in there and then hit one stone on 9 and birdied 10, 11, 12.   
Was feeling good going through that loop.   Wish I could have gotten one or two more.   15 is a pretty birdieable hole and I wasn't able to do that and 16 couldn't make it.   The middle of the round, I think that's where a lot of guys are scoring, 7 through 15, you'll see a lot of birdies on that part of the golf course.  
STEVE TODD:   The details on the eagle on 3?   
JASON DUFNER:   Hit a nice drive there.   Pretty difficult second shot, par 5.   Was actually playing a little bit safe for today trying to place it underneath the right‑hand bunker maybe just short of the green, really caught a nice 5‑wood that actually rolled out a good distance, almost 265 yards, which is about 20 yards further than a normal 5‑wood and was able to make about a 20‑footer.   
So after 3‑putting the first and No.2 is pretty tough, getting that eagle there got me going in the right direction.   
   
 Q.   Being in a winning position‑‑  
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, you know, I think I've been playing pretty well.   Each day I've been getting a little bit better with my form.   I had two weeks off and didn't really do much golf in the States when I was off for two weeks.   
So I feel like I'm in a good spot to contend with this tournament.   I think there's a little bit of space between the leaders.   I think there's three of us up there, double digits, so that gives us a little bit of space from the rest of the field and maybe we'll have a little bit of a shootout again the three of us.   
   
 Q.   Does the golf course fit your style of play?   
JASON DUFNER:   I like it.   It's a little bit different than what we see in the States.   You can play the ball on the ground more if you want.   The green complexes are very difficult.   You have to be very precise even when you have a wedge in your hand.   Case in point, first hole I hit a ball five feet from the hole and ended up 35 feet away.   Even with a scorable club in your hands, you have to be precise with where you're hitting it.   
Then creativity and using your imagination around the greens pitching and chipping is a must here.   You have to have a lot of different shots because you need them out there.  
   
 Q.   Is there any difference in the construction of your bag?   
JASON DUFNER:   No, no changes this week.   
   
 Q.   Inaudible.  
JASON DUFNER:   Not really.   I think playing in the States, we get a lot of international players that come over and play.   Any time you go and play different tours worldwide, you'll have more international players than United States players.   I wouldn't look at it that way.   Obviously everybody at the top of the leaderboard is playing very well right now regardless of their history and what they have done in the past.   
I know Bo pretty well from the States and played a lot of golf with him.   Should be a pretty good day whoever I'm played.  
   
 Q.   Emiliano Grillo doing what he's doing, pretty impressive?  
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, he's having a great week.   He's an IMG client, so I'm familiar with the name; some of the guys at IMG I've heard talk about him.   I know he's a younger guy, first year on The European Tour, right on the edge of keeping his card.   So playing with Bo and myself possibly could be another stepping stone for his confidence and his play.   
   
 Q.   Have you seen him play?  
JASON DUFNER:   I have not seen him play, no.   Saw him hit a couple wedges on the practice range but that doesn't tell you much.   
   
 Q.   How much does experience ‑‑  
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, you know, it's tough whether you've been playing out here ten or 12 years or your first year; to close out any round, Saturdays, Sundays, become more pressure packed.   
You have got a couple of good players, high‑ranked players in the world that come over here to play that are charging up the board a little bit, so maybe that adds a little bit of pressure.   He's hanging in there pretty well and tomorrow will be a good test for him to see where his game is at and how he can handle the pressure of trying to win a tournament like this.   
   
 Q.   How does it change being a few strokes back‑‑  
JASON DUFNER:   I don't think it changes much.   I'm going to go out there and try to keep doing the same things I've been doing.   I think the only time it changes is when you get in a situation to where you're down to maybe three or four or five holes and you're a couple ahead so you might play more conservative; or you're a couple behind and you have to take some risk there at the end because you're running out of holes to catch the leader.  
For the start, I would say at least the first nine holes, maybe 12 holes, just try and play the same way, try to get to that 7th hole under par, because like I said, you can really make some birdies on holes 7 through 15.     
   
 Q.   Inaudible.  
JASON DUFNER:   No, actually playing the CIMB next week in Malaysia and then the week after that I'm at HSBC in China.   So kind of bundled these three events together.   It was nice to get over here a little bit early, get acclimated to the time zone, get my body sorted and got a short trip to KL tomorrow night.   Fit good in my schedule to come over here, and I always enjoy playing in Australia.   
   
 Q.   How long does it take a player‑‑  
JASON DUFNER:   I think it's different for everybody.   Some guys, it takes a while, myself included.   There were many times I was in final pairings or close to the lead going into Sundays and I failed.   Sometimes guys get right into the fire and they are successful in being in that position and can close it out.  
Either way, you learn from it.   If you fail, you learn from your failures.   If you're successful, obviously you learn from your success and build confidence on that.   So either way, it goes tomorrow for anybody that is in the final round close to the lead, it's going to be something you can learn from.   
   
 Q.   Inaudible.   
JASON DUFNER:   Probably last year I got a little bit better with it.   There have been times earlier in my career where I would be a couple off or even in the final group played poorly.   
Last year at the US PGA, I was close to winning in a playoff.   Had a lot of confidence from that.   Earlier this year, I think I was in five final groups on Sunday in a row before I could win in Zurich.   For me it took a little bit more time and obviously you're disappointed when it happened, but like I said, you can learn things from it.   
STEVE TODD:   Thank you and good luck tomorrow.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT