ISPS HANDA PERTH INTERNATIONAL
October 19, 2012
Jason Dufner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   5‑under par 67, 6‑under par for the tournament, feel like you left a couple strokes out there today?
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, a little bit, but I had a really nice round.   Could have been a really special round.   Got off to a good start.   I didn't play the par 5s as well as I would like to play them, even for the day.   Gave a couple away, but good to get a nice round under my belt and look forward to the weekend.

Q.   On the weekend, you go into the third round five strokes off the pace.   What do you feel like you need to do to catch the leader?   Are you going to play more aggressively or go in there and keep the same game plan?
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, I don't suppose you can get too aggressive, especially on a Saturday, because the leaders have a little bit of a lead.   So I'll just try to get another nice round like I did today and maybe adjust for Sunday's round.   If he goes out and shoots another low one, he's going to force the issue with some other guys in the field.

Q.   You've been a frequent visitor to Australia through the years when you came Down Under to play the Nationwide Tour events.   This is your first time to Perth, I believe; what's your take on Lake Karrinyup?
JASON DUFNER:   Great golf course, really challenging.   You use all the clubs in the bag.   You need some creativity around the greens with your putting and pitching. 
So I can't say that I've ever played a bad course in Australia, so I really enjoy coming over here and giving the fans something to watch and trying to compete on a little bit different style golf course than we see in the States. 

Q.   Any notable holes out there we should know about? 
JASON DUFNER:   Not really.   Just says what it says.   Made a nice par on 6 which kept the round going a little bit.   Was looking like possibly a 5 and made about a 15‑footer for par there which gave me some confidence going into that stretch, 7 through 15, pretty birdieable holes.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT