ISPS HANDA PERTH INTERNATIONAL
October 18, 2012
Jason Dufner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How do you assess the round today?  
JASON DUFNER:   Pretty average today.   Got off to a nice start.   Didn't really finish it off.   Thought I was going to putt a good score after 12 holes and made a birdie on the third hole, my 12th, was feeling pretty good and played 2‑over from there.   
   
 Q.   What was tricky?  
JASON DUFNER:   Just couldn't make the par saves that I needed to.   I played the tougher holes, 16, 18, 4‑6, pretty poorly, and didn't get the pars you need to glue the round together.   Missed a couple birdies inside of the green on 15 feet and a couple bad breaks.   And that's the difference between a round that's up toward the lead and one that's kind of in the middle.  
   
 Q.   Did you think a low round was out there today?   
JASON DUFNER:   It played pretty easy this morning, wind picked up in the middle of the back nine and made the golf course a little bit firmer.   The hole locations were pretty receptive, a couple tricky ones, but the scores are about what I thought, 6‑under, pretty good.   
   
 Q.   Not many tournaments are won on the first day, but how do you feel?  
JASON DUFNER:   I don't feel too bad about my game.   A couple bad tee shots, and I still hit a lot of good shots.   Just didn't lead the round up.   Got a long way to go to get back up towards the lead, but good thing there's three days left and work from there and try to get there close by Sunday.  
   
 Q.   And physically you feel fine?  
JASON DUFNER:   Getting better with the jet‑lag and just acclimated to being over here, so felt really good today.   So I think it will get better each day.   
   
 Q.   What are you doing for the afternoon?   
JASON DUFNER:   Not too much actually.   Might practice just a touch, clean some things up and just get a little bit of a rest.   It's nice when you go early.   The next day you get some rest until you have to go the next day.  
   
 Q.   Are you catching up with a furry friend this afternoon?  
JASON DUFNER:   Possibly.   I heard there might be some koalas out here for me, so that might be interesting.  
   
 Q.   Somebody said there's a bit of a likeness.   
JASON DUFNER:   Is that right?   Well, we'll have to take some photos and see.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT