THE RYDER CUP
September 30, 2012
Jason Dufner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, I had a little bit of a rough stretch there, 10 through 12, felt like I gave him a couple holes.   Peter played well to get back into the match, and it was a great match.   You know what's at stake out here.   You can kind of see how the board is shaking down, and I knew that getting a full point would be pretty crucial for the team, and I really wanted to not let them down.

Q.   It's down to Tiger Woods and Steve Stricker this week who have not won a point all week.   Are they going to come through and do this for you?
JASON DUFNER:   You know, I hope so.   That's what we were planning on if we got in this situation, we'd have two world class players today, and if we need to just lean on them here at the end, hopefully they'll come through and get us the last point and a half.

Q.   Will you give a huge smile if USA wins?
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, I'd be pretty happy if we can get this done.   Obviously the Europeans have done great to get back in these matches and make it exciting for the fans.   A little nerve wracking for us players, but it's been a good match.   I felt like this might come down to the wire for some reason. 

Q.   You're known for keeping your cool on the golf course and you need all that composure on Sunday afternoon. 
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, Peter did a great job of getting back in the match.   I got off to a hot start.   He battled his way back, I made a couple mistakes and he was able to make some pars and pick up some holes.   We had a great match, and it came down to the final hole trying to get that whole point.

Q.   Were you watching the scoreboard throughout the day?
JASON DUFNER:   Yeah, I've been watching it a little bit.   Unfortunately there was a lot of blue up on the board early, which kind of made me feel like a whole point was going to be huge for us, and it turned out that it is.   Hopefully going to go watch the guys finish up and maybe we can get another point and a half. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT