NBA FINALS: CELTIC v LAKERS
June 16, 2010
Kendrick Perkins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   KENDRICK PERKINS: Physically I'm in pain. I hurt my knee pretty badly. I'm out for tomorrow, so there's nothing I can do about it.

 Q. What's the diagnosis?
 KENDRICK PERKINS: Torn MCL and a torn PCL, so got to watch from the sideline. I'd be lying to you if I told you it didn't hurt, but it hurts. Game 7 of the Finals, Game 6 of the Finals, couldn't help your team. Can't do nothing but sit on the side and encourage guys to play better and play well. I'll probably never get this opportunity again to even make it back to The Finals.
 Physically I'm doing better than I am mentally.

 Q. What did you think was going on last night?
 KENDRICK PERKINS: I knew something was wrong. I didn't know what it was. I couldn't get up on my own. I couldn't walk. My whole leg was hurting. The back of my knee was hurting, in pain. I heard something pop. I didn't know what it was, but it was pain.

 Q. (Inaudible).
 KENDRICK PERKINS: I mean, it's The Finals. Last practice of the season, last game of the season, you kind of just want to be with your teammates and coaches, just be around the guys, especially after a tough loss like last night where you just kind of want to be around, just get that family feeling. You know, you don't want to be in your room all day by yourself.
 I know when we lose, we always say when we get to the locker room, we feel a lot better when we get around each other. So I just felt like I needed to be around.

 Q. What have you found out exactly about your ability to play?
 KENDRICK PERKINS: Last night, pretty sure that I wasn't going to play. But this morning, it was like, you're out. That's what it was, "you're out." He told me if it was in December that -- if I had hurt my knee in December I probably would have missed the remainder of the season. So that tells you what it's like.

 Q. When did they tell you you could come back?
 KENDRICK PERKINS: I don't know. I still haven't had an MRI yet, so I have to have an MRI when I get back to Boston on Friday. I don't know.





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT