NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CELTICS v MAGIC
May 21, 2010
Kendrick Perkins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Last time you guys had the long layoff, you guys didn't come out playing your best basketball. What's the difference now from the last time you had a long layoff?   
 KENDRICK PERKINS: I don't know. It's a different focus. Guys are a lot clearer they don't want it to happen again. Doc reminded us about the last time we had a few days off to practice, and stuff like this, we didn't really take advantage of it. We had two bad practices. And Cleveland came out and dominated us in that game.   
 So I thought we had two really good productive days. So it was pretty cool.   
  
  Q. From your perspective, what's the difference in the practice now as opposed to the last time of the long layoff? Was it a different vibe?   
 KENDRICK PERKINS: Yes, it was a different vibe. I think guys were aware of what happened. So guys came in. You know we had a few turnovers, a few missed shots, but as far as the practice went, the execution and working hard, guys went hard.   
  
  Q. Talk about your approach defensively. Particularly on the pick-and-roll. We talk a lot about you on Dwight. Your pick-and-roll defense has also been pretty solid.   
 KENDRICK PERKINS: You have to be able to guard the pick and roll against Orlando to beat them. They do a lot of pick-and-rolls. That's how they get Dwight deep post outside of pick-and-rolls. I think Kevin has been doing a great job of him, and Big Baby and Rasheed on Rashard Lewis, and getting back and covering and taking away the three. Our pick-and-roll defense has been pretty good.   
  
  Q. How are your knees feeling?   
 KENDRICK PERKINS: It's all right. It's cool.   
  
  Q. Did you practice much today?   
 KENDRICK PERKINS: I practiced the whole practice today.   
  
  Q. So you think you'll be all set for tomorrow night?   
 KENDRICK PERKINS: Of course.   
  
  Q. OK. Looking at the number of centers that you've been up against, how much of it is a mental challenge in addition to a physical challenge, getting up for guys?   
 KENDRICK PERKINS: I don't know if it's mental. To me, I think, you know, you are like, you just got finished dealing with Shaq and now it's Dwight. You have to just approach it with the right mindset. If you don't, you can be dominated.   
 Guys can come in and have a 40-plus night on you, or whatever it might be. I'm just trying to make it tough. I'm not overreacting to anything that happens. If you make a shot on me, if it's a tough shot, I'm living with it. Just trying to get the win.   
  
  Q. What's been the key for you physically, defending him on that pick-and-roll?   
 KENDRICK PERKINS: I think when the guards get over the screen and throw the ball back up, it gives me a chance to get back to his body and take away his deep post game.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT