NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CELTICS v MAGIC
May 20, 2010
Kendrick Perkins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. (Indiscernible)?  
 KENDRICK PERKINS: He made some good shots last game. I thought he responded well. But they got him going. I feel like we have to bounce back. We have a game Saturday. It's a new beginning. A new start when we get back at home on the third game.   
  
  Q. You don't like to see your guy go for 30 points. It's a team situation. If he's using up 18 seconds on the clock trying to make a move, that's not a terrible thing for you guys, is it?   
 KENDRICK PERKINS: Not at all. If he scores, you live with some of them. A few of the 30 points he had were too easy baskets I thought we could have took away.   
 You know, we're just trying to make it tough on him. We're not trying to overreact to him scoring. We're not trying to trap or nothing like that. We're just trying to keep it -- make it tough on him, make it hard on him to score, not letting him get deep post-ups and stuff like that.   
  
  Q. What's the key to not being overconfident? You go on the road, you don't just get one, you get both games. Now you're in a great situation.   
 KENDRICK PERKINS: Can't get cocky with it. I think the biggest thing is staying humble, staying down-to-earth, doing what we got to do. We have to come home and take care of home. I think they are undefeated when they play us at home right now. So they beat us both times in the regular season at home.   
 We still got to come home. This first game is going to be the most important, in my opinion.   
  
  Q. Do you use that as added motivation? Not that you need a whole lot this time of year, but the fact you haven't gotten them in this building, is that more of the focus?   
 KENDRICK PERKINS: Yeah, I do. Guys are locked in. I think guys don't want to -- we got a nice situation that we in. I think guys want to take advantage of it. So I think we have to do everything in our power to make sure we withstand whatever they are going to throw at us in Game 3.   
 You know they're going to come out with a lot of intensity. They are going to come out with a lot of passion. We have to be able to withstand it. It's not going to be easy like it was in Game 2. We have to be able to take the blows.   
  
  Q. When you are guarding Dwight, is this a situation you have to do as much work before he gets the ball as when he actually gets it, about denying deep post?   
 KENDRICK PERKINS: Yeah, you just got to keep a body on him. Like I say, it's going to be physical all series. That's the key. You can't let him set up shop where he want to set up shop. You have to force him outside his comfort zone just a little bit.   
  
  Q. Do you take it personally when he goes for a bunch like that?   
 KENDRICK PERKINS: Do I take it personally? Yes, I do. I'm a defender, so I do take it personally when a guy hits 30 on me. But it happens to the best of us. We end up getting the win. So that's really all that matters.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT