NBA FINALS: LAKERS v CELTICS
June 7, 2008
Kendrick Perkins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. How's your ankle doing?   
 KENDRICK PERKINS: There's a little aching in it, but it's all right.  
  
  Q. What's the pain level, better than yesterday?  
 KENDRICK PERKINS: Yeah, it's all wrapped up. Yesterday I felt like 60 percent, today it's like 80.   
  
  Q. When you say "60 percent," where does that number come from?  
 KENDRICK PERKINS: It's just the way I was feeling. I didn't know no other way to put it. It was either that or a 1 to 10.  
  
  Q. What is it on a scale from 1 to 10?  
 KENDRICK PERKINS: Probably 6, 7 (laughter).   
  
  Q. At some point before tomorrow night you'll assess whether you're ready to go?  
 KENDRICK PERKINS: I think tomorrow night is probably our biggest game, in my opinion. I think it's a must-win. I think it's key for us. I think we need to get after that, but I know that they're going to come out and attack and they're going to be aggressive tomorrow. But I think it's key for us to get Game 2.  
  
  Q. Do you almost go into this with the mindset that it's 0-0?  
 KENDRICK PERKINS: Yeah, you've got to. You've just got to take it one game at a time, just -- you know, you can't worry about Game 3 or Game 4. You've got to just worry about that game at this moment because each game is important.  
  
  Q. You're a young guy. What do you think it's like for Rondo being in the NBA Finals his second year, 22 years old?  
 KENDRICK PERKINS: He's got to feel good, just coming from last year, so he's seen the worst of it and the best of it. I'm just happy for him. He's playing with a lot of confidence right now and he's feeling good about himself and the team is feeling good about him, so I'm just happy for him right now.  
  
  Q. Do you expect the Lakers to come out more dedicated towards rebounding and putting in effort there on the boards, given what happened in Game 1?  
 KENDRICK PERKINS: I expect them to be all-out tomorrow night to be honest. I expect them to give it their best shot, and we've just got to be ready to respond. I know they really want to get all these games. When you go on the road, at worst you want to split. So I know they probably want to win one tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Do you think they can match you physically?  
 KENDRICK PERKINS: Yeah, I think Gasol doesn't get credit for being physical. I think he's all right. He's not soft in my opinion. You know, a lot of people say he's not that physical, but I think he played pretty physical.   
  
  Q. Do you think you'll be thinking about the ankle tomorrow?  
 KENDRICK PERKINS: I'm not going to worry about it. I'm just going to try to go out there and do what I can, and as I said, I'm going to go all-out, and whatever happens, happens.  
 Try to make it through the whole practice and just see how I feel, and that's about it.  
  
  Q. I know you've had the shoulder before. Have you had an ankle injury in your career?  
 KENDRICK PERKINS: I've sprained my ankle a few times.  
  
  Q. Anything like this?  
 KENDRICK PERKINS: No, not a high ankle sprain. But it's all right, I'll play through it.   
  
  Q. Are you hoping to be 100 percent tomorrow?  
 KENDRICK PERKINS: I hope so, at least 90. I'll take whatever I can take. As long as I'm feeling good, I'm going to go out there and give it my best.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT