NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PISTONS v CELTICS
May 27, 2008
Kendrick Perkins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Perk, can you just talk about Paul was saying when you guys broke the huddle, he reminded everybody of the opportunity you guys have in front of you. 
 KENDRICK PERKINS: Yeah. I thought last night we dropped our guards a little bit. I thought we were cool the whole game. I didn't think we had the energy level and focus that we did in Game 3. But, you know, we did what we had to do, split, got home-court advantage back, and we've just got to take care of tomorrow.

 Q. How much faith do you have that your big guys will be able to do big things?
 KENDRICK PERKINS: Well, they never talk negative, especially, Ray, Paul and KG. They never talk negative, like even after the loss yesterday. They stayed positive and was like, we didn't win, just don't worry about it. We're not losing no more games at home, so they're pretty comfortable.

 Q. What do you have to do against McDyess?
 KENDRICK PERKINS: You know, I think as a team they're kind of living with McDyess shooting that shot. If McDyess can't hit that shot and we give Rip 20 and Rasheed 16, if McDyess don't hit 21, we've got to shut everybody else down. What it is is that we're trapping Rip and McDyess is wide open. You know, if you're going to take something away, you're going to end up giving up something. If we're going to take away Rip, then that's what it's going to be. 

 Q. (Inaudible). 
 KENDRICK PERKINS: It's very important, especially at home. I think if we get off to a good start, get the crowd into it, we'll be in good shape.

 Q. Seemed like Detroit raised their level of intensity in the last game. Do you guys feel like coming back here you need to raise your level of intensity again?
 KENDRICK PERKINS: I think they did an okay job. I feel we have it ourselves more than anything. We just have to make extra passes, worry about offensive rebounds. But I thought we came in with the right mind frame that we wanted to win the game, it's just our energy wasn't there last night. 

 Q. (Inaudible). 
 KENDRICK PERKINS: I don't feel different. We only lost one game. We finally got a road win, so I guess it is what it is. We feel good every time we get to play at home here at the garden, especially in front of our fans. It's like night and day playing in Detroit.

 Q. (Inaudible). 
 KENDRICK PERKINS: We need to come out and be aggressive. But I know those type of guys; they bury themselves. If they don't have shots, they're going to pass the ball. But I look for them to come out and be more aggressive. 

 Q. (Inaudible). 
 KENDRICK PERKINS: Yeah, he can, but you never know who might step up. It might be Ray or it might be Rondo. You never know; that's the good thing about our team. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT