NBA FINALS: HEAT v THUNDER
June 18, 2012
Kendrick Perkins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What did you think about your own performance?   
KENDRICK PERKINS:   That I did all right.   That goes out the window on that if you have a pretty good individual game and if you don't win the game.   It don't matter.   I did all that to try to win the game, and we didn't, so back to the drawing board.   It still was a miserable night.  
   
 Q.   You have something to build off of for next game?  
KENDRICK PERKINS:   Yeah, keep taking positive steps forward and none backward.   At the end of the day we're just trying to get team wins.  
   
 Q.   Everybody is talking about this series is far from over.   What do you think about that?  
KENDRICK PERKINS:   It is.   We've still got four games to play, and at the end of the day, we win a game tomorrow, and then it's the best‑of‑three with two games on our home court.   As we all see, the team that gets the win always gets the momentum.   At the end of the day, we're just down one game, and it's not the end of the world.   We did a lot of watching film, we did a lot of great things, and there's still some things that we can improve on.   We take away a couple turnovers in the fourth quarter, a couple silly fouls that we made, and we missed nine free throws.   We do that, our chances are high of winning the game.   
   
 Q.   Do you think Coach will play you guys more under the basket?   This is your relative advantage over the Heat.   
KENDRICK PERKINS:   Well, you know, we're going to roll with whatever Coach does.   I feel like at the end of the day, he's going to call the shots, he's going to make the decisions, and if you're all for the team, like we all‑‑ we all lose ourselves in the team, so we're going to back up Coach whatever he does.   If he wants to go with a big lineup, we're going to support that.   If he wants to go with a small lineup with one big, we're going to support that.   At the end of the day, it's about sacrificing and getting a win.   We're all on the same page, and we're pulling for each other, and we've all just got one goal, to sacrifice and come and play.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT