NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: THUNDER v SPURS
June 1, 2012
Kendrick Perkins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  KENDRICK PERKINS:   I always wanted to go out there and do what I need to do and try to stop them.  
   
 Q.   (No microphone) were you upset with him?   
KENDRICK PERKINS:   Just emotions.   It was nothing toward them, just emotions.   You tend to watch games.  
   
 Q.   How important is emotion?   
KENDRICK PERKINS:   It's very important.  
   
 Q.   Did you have it last night, the team?   
KENDRICK PERKINS:   I think we did.   We want to win.   We didn't play well the first two games, and we just came out and played more effort the last game.   I just think we've got to keep doing a better job playing and supporting each other.   I think the rest will take care of itself.  
   
 Q.   Why did the pick‑and‑roll work so much better last night than in the first two games?   
KENDRICK PERKINS:   Well, we played better as a team.   I thought everybody was tight on the string.   Everybody did their job.   You talk about it, but everybody did what they need to do.   They did a good job.  
   
 Q.   You guys did a lot of switching on Ginobili.   Why was that effective?   What led to that decision, and why was it effective?   
KENDRICK PERKINS:   It was just late clock.   When it got under 5 seconds, it was just late clock.   Coach said we could read it, and during the switch we just had to guard our man and do the best that we could do so they contest the twos.  
   
 Q.   Were you switching with Parker?   Was that the same thing with Parker?   You didn't seem to switch as much on Parker.   
KENDRICK PERKINS:   It was just late clock.   It was just late clock.   You get tangled up in the screen and whatever.   I think for Ginobili, he does a great job of bringing the bigs out.   So he kinds of forces you into it.  
   
 Q.   (No microphone) is that a bad word to use?   
KENDRICK PERKINS:   I thought we just played hard.   We were at home, and we had a lot of support from the fans.   We just played well.   
I thought our backs were against the wall.   We haven't been ‑‑ out of these playoffs, we've never been down really in the playoffs, so I think it's a good thing for us.   It makes you lock in more and be focused.   Kind of brings you down so you start doing the little things.   That's when you come together even more.  
   
 Q.   And the big concern with the turnovers from the Spurs last night (No microphone)?  
KENDRICK PERKINS:   One thing about it is I know they're going to come out strong and they're going to make adjustments.   We're not going to have a 20‑point win tomorrow.   I know that for sure.   You have to expect them to bounce back and come with their all.   
I felt we just had active hands.   I thought Thabo did a great job of getting space.   He had like six steals or something like that.   We all just did a great job.  
   
 Q.   Are you going to defend point guards more one‑on‑one out front?   
KENDRICK PERKINS:   No, I can't do that.   One to two possessions a game.   That's about it.   But I think they'll like it.  
   
 Q.   It looked like you were having fun?   
KENDRICK PERKINS:   We always do.   Just getting in position to get a stop.  
   
 Q.   What enabled you to play (No microphone)?  
KENDRICK PERKINS:   If you watch Game 2, I think it was like 97 pick‑and‑rolls or something like that.   So they're running them off a lot of screens and a lot of pin downs, and we actually can control the team on the offensive end.   
I know Russell is a special talent as far as his athleticism, but that's a lot for 48 minutes of running through screens and the way Duncan played good defense and stuff like that.   
I thought it was a good adjustment that we made by taking a lot of the pressure off Russell.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT