NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: THUNDER v MAVERICKS
May 18, 2011
Kendrick Perkins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   KENDRICK PERKINS: You know, we played a great game, but like I said, we could have lived with Dirk having 48 if we would have took the rest of the guys out of the game. I think we would have had a better chance to win.

 Q. How do you weigh the dangers of the double-team? 
 KENDRICK PERKINS: Well, you know, one thing about it is that you have to give up something, but I'd rather take away the best player on their team and make somebody make plays. I think that's what you have to do in the Playoffs. I'd rather take away Dirk and maybe somebody else beat us. Whoever else it might be, but just try to get the ball out of Dirk's hands.

 Q. Can you talk about how important it is to get Russell back to his old self?
 KENDRICK PERKINS: Russell will be fine. I guarantee he won't go through that again. My concern is not on Russell. He'll be great. I just feel like we've just got to make sure we keep executing our plays, keep sharing the ball and just keep playing as a team all the time.

 Q. Each time in the Playoffs you've lost you've responded the next game with a win. Can you talk about how to do that tomorrow night?
 KENDRICK PERKINS: Move our attitude. You can't really pride yourself -- you don't want to find yourselves down two games against Dallas. One thing about it is that we came out here to get a split. We would like to get two, but we'll take the split, and then we're back to our place. The series is definitely far from over, so we've just got to make sure we stay ready. 

 Q. You were within five in the fourth quarter. Watching the film did you say we were still in the game anyway?
 KENDRICK PERKINS: Well, we still had a chance. I mean, it's never over. I think at times we had too many times we were hanging our heads and we were -- hanging our heads and thought it was over. You know, it's never over. We were down 12 with six minutes to go in the third or six minutes to go in the game, two threes in a minute, you're back in the game. All you've got to do is get two stops. 
 One thing I try to tell the guys is make sure that you keep the right body language and stay positive all the time. I think we've got a great young team, but we're not going to use that as an excuse. We came this far, so we might as well try to keep pushing. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT