GREAT AMERICAN INSURANCE ATP CHAMPIONSHIP
August 6, 1996
Patrick Rafter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Did Sergi seemed drained to you at all? He commented that the Olympics took a lot
out of him.
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: Yeah, I am sure it did. At the very beginning I felt really bad as
well. I was still trying to get over a cold that I got from last week. And I knew I had to
hang in the first three games down breakpoint earlier on my serve and got away with that
and then from then on I just played my game and Sergi still remained flat. 
 
Q. Was that the first time you had beaten him? Anything special that you were doing or?
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: 1 and 6, isn't it? No, I played him six times. This is six times. 
 
Q. 1 and 5.
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: Sorry. Yeah. Well, I felt a bit more comfort on the hard court and it
is the first court that I played him on where I have been able to have my footing and that
is important to play someone like him because he passes quite well. But I seemed to be
there for a lot more balls today. And I think, you know, I was pretty confident going into
the match. 
 
Q. You liked the surface?
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: I felt comfortable. I had good opportunity to beat him on grass as
well; it didn't eventuate. 
 
Q. Starting to feel a lot sharper this year, healthier than last year?
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: Yeah, I think my fitness is definitely a lot better than last year. The
wrist is holding up well and I guess I am just enjoying myself a bit more than last year.
I am playing good tennis and I think that is showing. 
 
Q. The wrist injury did give you a break?
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: I had a break after the Australian Open. I had a ball. I think that was
important because, you know, I am pretty dedicated to tennis and the only way I was going
to have a break is if I had an injury and that was an excuse for me to party. I had a
great time. 
 
Q. Family party sounds good.
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: Yeah, believe me it is good. Never get a chance to do it. 
 
Q. You came in here and made a joke with a silver medal. What are your feelings about
the Olympics? Did you follow?
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: No, not really because everything is American, you know, I come here
and the Americans are doing this and doing that, and no doubt, I am interested in the
Australians like everyone else. I mean, if I was back home everything would be Australian
and I like to see the Australians compete, obviously. There were some great events that I
would like to have seen, but I didn't really get to see the Aussies compete very much,
unfortunately. The silver medal, that is obviously, just a silly joke, but, you know,
Sergi obviously played very well to get that. 
 
Q. Were you in the third round here last year?
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: Yeah. 
 
Q. Anything special about this surface that you feel confident on?
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: I like the conditions here. The balls are little heavier. The courts
are medium paced where I can serve well and I can also return quite well. And I like that
sort of condition. A little bit too quick too quick, I don't really like that. I don't
like when they are really, really slow. I don't like that either. So over the American
summer, the surface and the balls, everything seem to really help my game. 
 
Q. Any thoughts about your next opponent Enqvist?
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: It is going to be tough. I played him about a year ago in Washington
and I was successful there. Obviously he is playing better and I am probably playing a
little better as well. So we should have a good match. If it is going to be hot like it is
today then ..... (inaudible). 
 
Q. It is going to be hot.
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: Yeah. 
 
Q. You have grown up with the heat.
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: Yeah, just not feeling 100%, so, you know, it does take it out of you
if you are not feeling, you know-- yeah, I mean, I do enjoy the heat because I know that
everyone else doesn't like it. I think that is what -- that is why I enjoy it. That is the
only reason why I enjoy it. 
 
Q. If it had gone to a third today, could you have stood out there?
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: I felt like I could compete. I mean, I was feeling that great and I
looked at him too; he wasn't looking too good. It would have been an interesting third set
- a lot of dropshots, probably. 
 
Q. You made a little run there, sort of regrouped?
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: Psychologically, yeah, I felt like I had to, you know, if he got back
from double break down, he gets momentum; he gets bit more second wind and that could be
dangerous. 
 
Q. I know Cains. I have never been to Mount Isa. What is the weather there compared to
here?
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: I only lived the first seven years of my life in Mount Isa, but that is
very, very hot, that is the desert weather, very dry and then I moved to the sunshine
choice in Queensland which is quite humid. But Cains is a different story altogether. You
are looking, you know, extremely tropical, extremely humid and muggy. A lot like the
weather here. I mean, even in the winter, they still have 30 degrees and all sorts of
humidity up there, so that would be difficult to live in. I do know how to condition
myself for the heat. 
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT