U.S. OPEN
September 3, 1994
Patrick Rafter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. How much did the elbow affect you? 
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: I felt it in my doubles as well, and the cold, just too much for my
elbow.  
 
Q. What exactly is the nature problem of the problem with the elbow? 
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: Never really had it checked out with an x-ray or anything like that,
but -- I don't know, I think it's very cold and I'm not quite sure. It hurt a lot.  
 
Q. Has it been bothering you all summer or something just here? 
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: I hurt it bad just before the French Open. I played a lot of night
matches in doubles and had a very bad elbow there going to the French, and I had it very
bad in Toronto, although I wasn't playing night -- yes, I was playing night matches and it
seemed to really affect it.  
 
Q. Can you talk a little bit about the doublefaults? 
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: Pardon me?  
 
Q. Doublefaults? 
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: Of mine?  
 
Q. Yeah. 
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: I was afraid to hit the ball because after I gave it a hit it became
very tender. I didn't want to hit the ball too hard -- even the first serve, after I'd go
for the big one, I'd only hit, like, one every three or four games.  
 
Q. Was it bothering you at all before the match? 
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: Yes, it was. Just throbs a little bit. When I warmed up-- because I
warmed up today during the day, but I still felt it on my arm. I think because I had a
night match the day before -- night before.  
 
Q. What did he say to you after the game? 
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: What he did say? He asked me if my arm was bothering me and I said,
"No."  
 
Q. You said "No"? 
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: I said, "No."  
 
Q. Did you get that outfit from the Aussie-- football team or is that something the
Jensens gave you? 
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: It's a Reebok line. They want to try and promote a different line of
clothes; soccer clothes.  
 
Q. It looks good. Pat, how disappointed are you? 
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: I played okay. It's disappointing coming into a big match in a Grand
Slam, not one percent. Very frustrating. It takes away my biggest weapon. I volleyed very
well, but it's just a matter of time before he made a few good returns that I couldn't get
to the volleys or I missed.  
 
Q. You just kept on coming in; right? 
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: Yeah, you know, he was a little strong from the baseline and I was
volleying very well and winning most of my points when I got a volley, so I decided that
was the way to go.  
 
Q. When you returned a serve, it kind of looked like you were blocking it more than
hitting it? 
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: That's the way I return all the time. Make the guy play a lot of balls.
I really didn't play the big points well.  
 
Q. Did you come in thinking, he's had the groin problem or I want to move him around a
lot? 
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: He doesn't seem to have much of a groin problem if you ask me. He's had
three big matches now. He's fine by the looks of things. I thought I had a good chance of
winning regardless of his groin strain.  
 
Q. When are you going -- are you going to have the elbow looked at? 
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: Probably not.  
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT