THE  LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 17, 1994
Patrick Rafter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Patrick, have you ever come across anyone who returns
so well, so consistently?

 PATRICK RAFTER:  You know, my serve was off today, and that's
my weapon.  A lot of my game was off, but he made me pay for it.
I've served a lot better than that before.

 Q.  Patrick, you also seem to be -- you also -- he gave you
problems finding opportunities to break, you had a chance at 30-40
maybe 4-2 or something?

 PATRICK RAFTER:  Yeah, I mean, I played pretty defensively, he
had me pretty confused on the baseline.  I played a similar match
to that at the Australian Open where I had some trouble as well,
you know, he just -- he played very well and I didn't play so
great.

 Q.  This match in the stadium was a lot different than the
one last night as far as there being more people there; you're
not playing against somebody who is injured; how did that affect
you, playing your first semi-final here?

 PATRICK RAFTER:  I had trouble playing in the lights, last night
especially.  I was in all sorts of trouble, and tonight again,
I never felt comfortable under the lights.  My smashes just --
I found it very hard to pick up the ball on my serve, and so forth.
 The background, seeing the ball, it's all black and it's very
tough, when you have clouds in the sky it makes it easier.  But
to his credit, he played very well.  He made me pay for not playing
very well at all.

 Q.  What about the crowd, did that --

 PATRICK RAFTER:  No, I had some support, I was okay.  I had some
pretty good support there, I thought.

 Q.  Pat, does it make it that much more tougher considering
that you played very well to this point, but you didn't play as
well as you know you could tonight?

 PATRICK RAFTER:  I didn't play well last night either. I was
just very fortunate I thought that he --

 Q.  Well, Grabb was injured and --

 PATRICK RAFTER:  Yeah, well, and even before, I just never felt
comfortable under the lights.  I never wanted to play there really.


 Q.  How much have you played under lights?

 PATRICK RAFTER:  Not much.  I played a few and I seem to struggle
every time.

 Q.  What, if anything, do you learn from a match like this,
playing against someone like him?

 PATRICK RAFTER:  Well, you know, you got to make a lot of first
serves.  He's got a great return, that's the best part of his
game.  He relies on breaking a serve and hitting his groundies
on his, you know, when he serves.  He pulls out all your weaknesses.
 I didn't volley too well, he showed them my low backhand volley
wasn't going too well either and so I have to work on that.  He
exploited all my weaknesses tonight.

 Q.  Did you see anything of the earlier match today?

 PATRICK RAFTER:  Oh, no, not really.

 Q.  So you wouldn't care to comment whether you think he might
beat Sampras?

 PATRICK RAFTER:  No, I don't know, depends on the day.

 Q.  Your first big semifinal here, Indianapolis was another
big semifinal for you; how did it feel; is there a satisfaction?

 PATRICK RAFTER:  Am I what?

 Q.  Are you satisfied with the eight days?

 PATRICK RAFTER:  Yeah, very, oh, yeah.  I mean, you know, you
have a tough first round, you come into these tournaments, you
gotta play like three or four seeds, you know, I'm more than satisfied
with this one.

 Q.  How big is the Davis Cup one coming up for you, individually;
how much -- is it a big thing for you?

 PATRICK RAFTER:  Playing Russia?

 Q.  How much is it for you?

 PATRICK RAFTER:  Yeah, It's gonna be very big.  It's the first
time I've ever been to Davis Cup and I have an opportunity to
play.  It's going to be a big step in my life, I suppose, it's
going to be a lot different from this.

 Q.  What did you mean when you said that Agassi had you confused
on the baseline?

 PATRICK RAFTER:  When did you hear that?

 Q.  You said he had you confused when you were out there?

 PATRICK RAFTER:  Did I say this here tonight?

 Q.  Yes.

 PATRICK RAFTER:  Oh, did I?  You know, he was -- I was playing
-- I didn't know whether to be aggressive or defensive, and whenever
I tried to be aggressive, I was missing quite a few balls and
they weren't coming off too well.  He started running it down
and when I started being defensive, he just sort of crawled all
over me.  I couldn't find a way to win from the baseline.  I was
trying to work it out. 

  End of FastScripts....            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT