TMS - THE ERICSSON OPEN
March 31, 2001
Patrick Rafter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  First question, please. 
 

Q.  What happened out there?
 
PATRICK RAFTER:  He was on fire at the beginning.  He started really well.  Didn't let me get into the match and I probably started a little bit flat trying to work my way into it.  He never opened up the gates there at all in the first set.  Fought hard to get back in the second set.  Sort of let it go, couple of unforced errors there. Can't afford to do that with Andre. 
 

Q.  Did you feel pretty good going into the third set?
 
PATRICK RAFTER:  Yeah, geez, I felt I could sort of work my way back into it.  But Andre probably let the pressure off a little bit in the second set and he opened the door up, I was able to take advantage of that.  Third set he put the pressure on and that is when, I know it's coming, just was couple of loose points here or there and the match is over.  
 

Q.  With regard to your form going into next week, how are you feeling about things?
 
PATRICK RAFTER:  Good.  Yeah, just I have had a lot of tennis.  That is what I needed and it wouldn't  -- just getting used to the sliding, that sort of thing, but no use running myself in the ground when I get there.  So, it will be light training days when I get there and just getting used to the clay, to the balls and the conditions and sort of count on my match experience over the last three weeks to get me through. 
 

Q.  When you make the transition to clay next week, do you think the work you did in Spain at the end of last year, is that still with you or is it like you have to start from scratch?
 
PATRICK RAFTER:  I am hoping it will be there.  I am hoping I can count on that and I don't know what the conditions are like there at all.  Conditions in Barcelona were quite favorable for both teams, I thought.  So, you know, I think it should help the hard work that I did do on the clay.  
 

Q.  I know Davis Cup is always in your mind and you are thinking   -- (inaudible) over the past three weeks, particularly the past ten days here, has it been more so?
 
PATRICK RAFTER:  You had to make your flights everyday, I was on the next plane out pretty well every night out of here, it was very  -- it was really on my mind, but -- bit of a distraction, I guess. 
 

Q.  Are you still eager to play both singles and doubles?
 
PATRICK RAFTER:  Oh, I will get down there and check it out and see how everyone is playing.  But, I am definitely making myself available for those three matches and it's up to Wally and Fitzy to decide on what he will do. 
 

Q.  You played an incredible match against Andre in Australia.  Considering that, is there more pressure that you know you can't afford to start slow against a guy like him?
 
PATRICK RAFTER:  Yeah, you are just not quite sure how he is going to start off either.  But he was right on top of his game.  He was very alert very early.  And the conditions were very tough.  It wasn't  -- you know, you sort of take it a little bit off your first serve to get it in; you get punished for it.  The conditions weren't that quick at all.  Very slow out there.  It wasn't suiting a serve and volley style of game.  But at the same time he made me play all the tough shots and he made the passes and winners whenever he needed to.  
 

Q.  You still feel you played under the level that you played?
 
PATRICK RAFTER:  It is very hard to say that because, you know, the standard wasn't the same but the standard couldn't be the same in these conditions.  It is just too hard.  The ball was moving all over the place.  You couldn't crack an egg out there.  It was very difficult to wind up and get yourself in position because the ball was just playing tricks on us all day out there. 
 

Q.  Wrist today any better?  Worse?
 
PATRICK RAFTER:  The wrist is something that I have been able to maintain for the last couple of weeks and I am looking forward to getting through Barcelona (sic) and seeing the end of it and taking time off then.  It is going to need a rest, that is for sure. 
 

Q.  What would be your first tournament when you come back?
 
PATRICK RAFTER:  I will play it by ear.  I will just sort of  -- automatically entered into the Super 9s, but Monte Carlo won't be there, that is for sure.  Just have to see how I am feeling with the wrist on the other tournaments. 
 

Q.  You mentioned that the Davis Cup was a bit of a distraction.  Did that hurt you?
 
PATRICK RAFTER:  Oh, no, no, no.  It is sort of is, but it is not really.  It is in the back of your mind, but, you know, when you are out there the last thing you are thinking about is: (Looks at wristwatch) Geez, I have to make this flight tonight. You know, you are thinking about winning and that is all there is to it. 
 

Q.  Has Fitzy been talking to you much here about the Davis Cup?
 
PATRICK RAFTER:  Well he is just throwing different ideas out there, but we won't know until we get down there really.  Wally and Fromy, Scotty Draper and Wayne Arthurs are down there doing the work.  They probably have a feel of how things are going, what the conditions are like, and what the balls are like, etcetera, so we really won't have a gauge on that until we get down there. 
 

Q.  Something about the Brazilian crowd that would be tough also?
 
PATRICK RAFTER:  Yeah, I am sure it will be.  We had a good experience last year in Barcelona, so I am sure it is going to be pretty tough down there.  It's pretty furlong, but it creates a  great atmosphere at the same time.  We just hope it doesn't get too far out of control.  Especially if we start winning I think it is going to get nuts.   (Laughs) 
 .

Q.  Are you in a better place going into this tie than going against Spain?
 
PATRICK RAFTER:  There is no substitute for matches there, as you are wondering how many matches do I play and do I play doubles and all this sort of thing.  At the end of it, to play all these matches is just perfect and ideal.  You can't beat it.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT