TMS - THE ERICSSON OPEN
March 27, 2001
Patrick Rafter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions.  
 

Q.  I take it you've overcome your aversion to playing at night?
 
PATRICK RAFTER: Listen, you know, the conditions were both tricky for us.  I'm not saying that, you know, I haven't had good results at night.  I played at the Australian Open against Hrbaty, and I was playing very well against Agassi; don't get me wrong.  But I prefer to play during the day, simple as that. 
 

Q.  What did you think when you found out you were playing at night?
 
PATRICK RAFTER: Well, it was good because I was at the U2 concert and I wanted a late night anyway.  So I was very happy with a night match.  
 

Q.  You happy with the way you played?
 
PATRICK RAFTER: Yeah, it was -- my groundstrokes were something that sort of shocked me a little bit.  I've been working on a lot on my groundstrokes, trying to hit them very heavy and try to put something on them.  This is also getting ready for the Davis Cup next week.  You know, my serve could have been a little bit sharper.  I wasn't really happy with the way I was timing my serve, but I started to get a bit more rhythm as the match went on. Otherwise, I'm very, very happy with the way I played. 
 

Q.  How does it compare with the match you played against him in Indian Wells?
 
PATRICK RAFTER: It was very different.  I don't think Alex played as well as he did tonight, there's no way.  I probably played a little bit better, too.  I served extremely well in Indian Wells against him and  didn't give him much of a chance on my serve.  But probably Indian Wells was a higher standard, definitely a higher standard. 
 

Q.  Are you a bit surprised by how well you've been playing lately?
 
PATRICK RAFTER: Well, I've done it before, I guess, when I get on a roll and I feel good and I play a lot of matches and I know I'm hitting the ball well that it's not really that surprising because I do get the good results.  I'm trying to keep that momentum going.  It's important that I keep my concentration for the next couple of weeks.  That's all I have to do, then I'll take  a couple of weeks off. 
 

Q.  You ready for the doubles tomorrow?
 
PATRICK RAFTER: Yeah, we'll see how little Lleyton pulls up.  I think, you know, he  -- I understand he's not one million percent at the moment so hopefully he'll pull up okay and we'll see what happens.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT