TMS - THE ERICSSON OPEN
March 24, 2000
Patrick Rafter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 ATP: Questions for Patrick.  
 
Q. How are you?
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: Fine, thank you. It's been a while. It's been good not seeing you guys.
Today was good. It was a little windy out there. I didn't try to overhit my serve at all.
Just sort of got a lot of high percentage in, coming in for the volleys. Playing someone
like Grosjean, whole different story next match. 
 
Q. How is the shoulder?
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: I generally get twinges when I fatigue, during the end of the match.
This was an occasion that it didn't get that far into it. But the more I play, I think the
stronger the shoulder is going to get and it is getting. I'm pretty happy with that. 
 
Q. Is that as good as you felt since you've come back?
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: That's probably as well as I've played, yeah. I was very happy with
that. Sort of reminded me of the way I played against Philippoussis at the US Open. Same
style of game. It's as good as I've moved, as well, since I've been here. Everything has
just taken its time. It's just part of the course of getting back into it, I think.  
 
Q. You're a pretty patient sort of bloke. Was there anytime when you got a bit worried
about it?
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: No, because I was enjoying my time off. I wasn't missing tennis at all.
The thing that was sort of getting at me more than anything was the rehab and then the
amount of travel I was doing. I didn't want to spend all the time down in Melbourne so I'd
fly up to Queensland for three or four days, Sydney for three to four days, back down to
Melbourne. I was traveling twice a week, which is more than what I do on the road. That
was probably the main thing that was getting to me. 
 
Q. Were you surprised that you didn't miss it or not?
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: I was a little bit, yeah. I thought I would have missed it a lot more
than that. But I got to do a few things that I really enjoyed doing. The training was very
difficult to get motivated for. I had no goals. Even now, it's just starting to get back
into it. My goals are to be fit for Davis Cup. I love playing Davis Cup. I'm working very
hard toward that goal. If we can keep winning Davis Cup, I'll continue to have goals
throughout the year, I think.  
 
Q. You're obviously moving forward quite well now. Looking back to Cincinnati when you
started to get the problem with the shoulder --?
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: It was the French Open.  
 
Q. -- Would you have done anything different after that?
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: Well, definitely not the French Open. A lot of guys always get twinges
in certain parts the body. This is a twinge I thought I could knock on the head. Going
into Cincinnati, it was feeling pretty good. I started taking antiinflammatories then
pretty well for the first time, although I did take them in Boston for the Davis Cup. I
went off them again for Montreal. That was pretty painful there. I thought, I'm going to
take them again for Cincinnati because it was quite sore. Probably after Cincinnati was
the time when I started feeling the pain. Even though I was taking antiinflammatories, I
think the damage was done. I took a week off and tried -- I played Indianapolis, I pulled
out. I took the week off before the US Open. That probably should have been the time that
I addressed it well and truly then. 
 
Q. If the US Open hadn't been coming up, would you have been more cautious?
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: Definitely, I think I would have taken the time off. I was playing
well. I thought if I could just get through this, maybe the Davis Cup against Russia back
in Queensland, I could take six weeks off before playing a couple tournaments and end the
year with Davis Cup again. That's the way I was thinking. 
 
Q. When you have this sort of time away to think about tennis and what have you,
careers and life, do you sort of reassess your position and the things you're aiming for a
little bit? Do you sit back and think that perhaps you want to go for different things?
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: No. I sort of made my mind up anyway that I wanted to start doing very
well in the Grand Slams, these big tournaments as well, the Masters Series. I think it's
great how everyone is playing them this year. It makes it feel like a Grand Slam, so every
match is very competitive and very tough. Also the Davis Cup, these events are sort of
driving me, I guess. But while I was having that time off, you know, I didn't really
reflect much. I just thought, What in the hell am I going to do if this thing doesn't get
better? I wasn't getting too worried about it. 
 
Q. Sorry to sound such a parochial Londoner, but what are you going to do about Queen's
this year?
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: Playing Halle. 
 
Q. Is that still because you're pissed off about what happened?
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: No. I played Halle last year and I really enjoyed it. It was probably
more that I really had a great time there. You know, Queen's, I played it seven years in a
row, but I am missing it this year again. I don't really know. Just Halle was a lot more
attractive to me.  
 
Q. If that's what you like. 
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: I'll be there for Wimbledon, though. I did enjoy my time at Queen's, no
doubt about it.  
 
Q. Don't need to make us feel better. 
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: You make me feel really bad now (laughter).  
 
Q. When you move like you did today, does it start to make you feel excited that it's
starting to happen, or are you trying to contain that?
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: I think I try to contain that because I know that the next day could be
a bad day. I'm fully aware of that. I was very happy with the way I stroked the ball
today. I've been hitting the ball well for the last week. I knew it was a matter of time
before I started coming into my game. I guess today was just a result of a lot of work
I've done on court with Rochey and a lot of off-court work. But the shoulder things is a
day-by-day thing. I can wake up and it can be quite sore tomorrow, but I'm feeling really
confident that it's not going to be. If I get a couple of back-to-back matches, that's
when I can find it getting sorer and sorer a lot quicker. 
 
Q. Regarding Davis Cup, there's now three of you vying for two singles places.
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: What a great position that is right now. The way the new system works
is that we may put three guys in and put a doubles guy in, and any one of us can play the
doubles together. I know Mark and I have played a bit together. I think Lleyton has yet to
show his full potential in doubles, and he's done well already. I still think he's very
ready. Then you can chuck in the Woodies or Wayne Arthurs or whoever. That's the way I see
it anyway.  
 
Q. What if you are the guy, "Sorry, Pat, you're sitting on the bench"? 
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: That's fine by me. I can understand that. If I was fully fit, I might
be a little upset, if I was playing well. But I can definitely take that and I'll be ready
for the next one.  
 
Q. We all know your commitment to Davis Cup. We're not really meant to mention Davis
Cup with Greg around. Could you ever envisage a circumstance in which you would be saying
to yourself or refusing to make comment about availability for Davis Cup, that sort of
thing?
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: There's always -- there could always be something wrong that I'm not
happy with, yeah. But while Newc and Rochey are in there, I'll always be available. I have
a lot of respect for those guys. I can see how if someone came in that was really bad news
to me, which I don't know if there is anyone out there in the Australian camp that I
wouldn't be happy playing with anyway. I don't know what Greg's reason is for not playing
the Davis Cup. But I'd like to think having someone like that, someone you didn't like or
respect there, I still think you should be able to see through that. I'd like to think
that I could see through all that and put my hand up and be available for Davis Cup,
represent your country. 
 
Q. Presumably you'd have to make that decision, "Am I playing for my captain or
Australia?" 
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: That's the way you've got to look at it. There's always little things.
Maybe you being there, your presence, is a negative, as well. Maybe it's going to drag the
rest of the team down. 
 
Q. Do you suspect that Tennis Australia will ask the players their suggestions once
Newc and Rochey go at the end of this year?
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: I'd really like to think that we have an input on who becomes the next
Davis Cup captain and coach, whether they take the two or whoever. I'd definitely like to
be part of that anyway. We were with Newc and Roche.  
 
Q. When will that be done?
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: I have no idea. I don't know. When is Davis Cup next year? Probably not
until after the Lipton, I think the first match would be. It may be addressed by Junior
Aussie Open. I remember we did it last time with Newc and Roche. They set us all down. I'm
presuming probably the same time.  
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT