US OPEN
August 31, 1999
Patrick Rafter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 USTA: Questions for Patrick.  
 
Q. Can you describe what it was like, what it felt like when you were playing, the
shoulder?
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: It's a sharp pain, only on the serve. Every now and then, maybe on a
big serve of Cedric's, especially on the backhand side, it will jar. But it's really on
contact of the serve is where I feel it.  
 
Q. Did you reinjure it? Is this the same injury, I assume, from Indianapolis?
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: Right. 
 
Q. Did you reinjure it in the fall?
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: No. That fall had nothing to do with it. I looked across at, I can't
remember the score - hang on - the 4-3 game maybe, I looked across - or 3-2 game - across
at Alex. I knew it was starting to come on. I called for him two games later. 
 
Q. So no specific action that you felt did it?
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: No, no. I've been practicing for the last few days, feeling great. I
was very confident, very happy with the progress. For it to break down that quickly, I was
very surprised. When you get into a match situation, that's what happens. 
 
Q. What has it been specifically diagnosed as?
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: I'll know tomorrow. 
 
Q. The injury previous?
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: It was bicep or supraspinatus, these words I don't even know. I know
the bicep. Infraspinatus. Just a rotator cuff or bicep tendon. 
 
Q. What's the procedure tomorrow?
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: I'll get an MRI and probably get a couple doctors' opinions on it, then
hang around here and probably get some treatment with Andrea before I head back to
Australia and see what happens with Davis Cup. 
 
Q. What did you think when you heard the news about Pete pulling out? Did you
internalize that at all that this might happen to you?
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: No. As I said, I was very happy with the way the shoulder was feeling.
It was feeling great. You know, I heard from another source that Pete might not look like
he was going to play, so it wasn't a huge shock for me to see him pull out. 
 
Q. How sad a day is this for you? What do you think the loss of Pete and you from the
tournament means to The Open?
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: It's tough for the tournament. You know, especially with Pete playing
such great tennis, and my form was pretty good, as well, coming into here. I was feeling
pretty confident about having some good wins here. For me, it's very tough to pull
yourself off that court. I sat there at 7-5 game, and I knew I should have just walked off
at that stage, but I didn't. Even if I had won that game, I couldn't see myself pulling up
for the next match, but I still didn't want to walk off the court. 
 
Q. You didn't feel it at all in the first set?
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: Yes, I did. 
 
Q. When?
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: Around 3- or 4-2. 
 
Q. In the first set?
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: Yeah. I started to feel it come on. Then the second set, I was just
serving flat, but I could still have a bit of pace there. But I couldn't get the kick
serve. In my previous matches before in Indianapolis and in Montreal, I was serving flat,
but okay. The shoulder wasn't getting any worse. But here, it was terrible, the pain. 
 
Q. Pain just kept getting progressively worse?
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: Well, about the third and fourth were just about as bad as each other. 
 
Q. Were you disappointed that you were booed off the court by some people?
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: Yeah. Once one person starts booing, I guess the rest of them do. It's
very sad. I mean, what can I do? It is. It is very disappointing. I played here the last
two years. I had very good reception. To be booed off, that hurts, no doubt about it. You
know, you've got to cop that shit in the chin, I guess. 
 
Q. There's so many injuries right now on the men's side, particularly. Do you feel that
the schedule is really heavy? Everybody is getting over-use injuries. Do you think it's
the schedule? Do you think it's the power game?
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: It's really my first major injury in about three years. I've been
pretty lucky. But this is obviously my worst-standing one. The schedule isn't kind, and
it's not going to get any better. We probably do need an off period. It's something that
I'm sure will work itself out over the next few years. 
 
Q. Has there been any suggestion as you've looked at the shoulder injury over the past
months that it might require surgery?
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: No. I've always dismissed surgery. It's the last thing I want to do on
the shoulder. But if something shows up in the MRI that requires it, then I guess I need
it. I'll be having rests before anything. 
 
Q. What did you say to Cedric?
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: I sort of felt bad. You know, I just lost my serve. I just lost the
fourth set. He was starting to get pumped up. You know, we're pretty good mates, Cedric
and I. I didn't want him to be upset with me. He was fine. I just said, "I'm sorry, I
probably shouldn't continue here. I don't know really why I am." It was an awkward
moment because I just lost my serve. It's like, "Hang on, I've had enough of this. I
don't want you to have any of the glory or the victory." I didn't want that message
to come across to him. I just said, "I'm sorry." He was fine.  
 
Q. What does it feel like to give up your title like this?
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: It's a funny way to leave a tournament. I don't often leave like this,
especially a major. It happened at the Australian Open one year. That was also very tough.
It's disappointing. But I sort of knew it was coming during that match, that it wasn't
going to last. I was sort of preparing myself for it.  
 
Q. The way you feel today physically, do you see yourself playing Davis Cup?
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: Yeah, well, what the worrying thing was for me, during the practice
sessions, I was really going after my serve. It was holding up. I really was confident
about it. I fought to break down serve early on. It does worry me going into Davis Cup, I
could go in there feeling a million bucks. Halfway through a match, if I'm not a hundred
percent, you know, Davis Cup is going to be a very tough one for me. I love playing and I
want to be there for it. Listen, I'm going to be there on the sidelines or whatever,
whether I'm playing or not. I guess I'll know more with the diagnosis tomorrow; will sort
of tell the tale. 
 
Q. Does it feel different than the injury in Indianapolis?
 
 PATRICK RAFTER: It's a lot worse than Indianapolis, yeah. Indianapolis, I just knew it
was starting to come on. I thought if I can knock this on the head, I'll be all right for
the US. But I could serve okay during Indianapolis, but not here.  
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT