COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
September 28, 1997
Patrick Rafter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Patrick, heavy schedule over the last couple of months; what really appeared to be a really draining semifinal yesterday.  How much did they take their toll on you today?

PATRICK RAFTER:  It was a little bit.  I mean, I did have probably a little bit of a sore arm was the main problem, I think.  I woke up this morning feeling pretty good.  But, you know, even if I was feeling fit, I still don't think I would have beaten Pete on the day.  He's just too good and too strong.  I've got to look for something new, something different to try to crack Pete.  But I haven't found anything yet.


Q.  Have you got any ideas?  Can you see any weakness?

PATRICK RAFTER:  Well, I was quite happy with the way I returned about the last set.  I just started to pick up on a few little things which is very promising to me.  I had a lot of problems with his second serve.  He won far too many second serve points.  That was probably one  of the biggest problems that I had during the whole match. I just have a lot of problem with his second serve.


Q.  Can you think of which surface would be the most favorable to you getting at him?

PATRICK RAFTER:  Hmm, not really.  I'm struggling with that one, too.


Q.  Melbourne Park?

PATRICK RAFTER:  Melbourne, Australian Open?


Q.  Yes.

PATRICK RAFTER:  Doubt it.  Maybe the crowd might play a part, but that's about it.


Q.  Did you think at all about punching his head during the change of ends?

PATRICK RAFTER:  No (laughter).  Not that sort of guy, mate.  But I did need something like that to get me going, need to turn the thing around.


Q.  Were there any aftereffects from yesterday's match?  Were you feeling a bit tired or sluggish at all?

PATRICK RAFTER:  A fraction.  But I felt pretty good.  Didn't feel too bad.  Not the reason why I lost.


Q.  Patrick, when you're out there and things are really going against you because he's playing the way he is, the standard he was at, how frustrating is it for you?  Is it difficult for you to really try and keep focus because everything is whizzing past? 

PATRICK RAFTER:  Oh, it was very frustrating for me out there.  It was a little bit similar to the Davis Cup matches, as well.  I haven't felt that frustrated in quite, you know, quite awhile, being in the Davis Cup and also today's match.  Just that everything I tried, he has an answer for.  I guess that's why he's the best.


Q.  What is the forthcoming tournaments you're going to play?

PATRICK RAFTER:  I am having two weeks off, and then I'm going to start in Lyon, then Stuttgart, then Paris, Stockholm, and then maybe Hannover.


Q.  As you've got a bit of time off, do you think you can sample what is offered in Munich tonight at the Oktoberfest?

PATRICK RAFTER:  There's a big party put on for us from the tournament, so I think I'll be probably enjoying myself.  But I have an early flight tomorrow.  Have to make my way back to Bermuda.  Probably not too many beers tonight.


Q.  Pat, have you got yourself geared up to what's awaiting you when you get back to Australia, when you first go back?

PATRICK RAFTER:  I reckon things will die down by  then.  No?  It's because of Craig, people like you in Australia, that's keeping it going (laughter).  It's going to be pretty crazy is what I heard.  I haven't been back there.  It will be very interesting to see what happens.


Q.  Sounds like you're a bit apprehensive about it all?

PATRICK RAFTER:  Well, you know, it's sort of going to be a little bit invading on my privacy.  It's not very nice, but I guess that's part of it, isn't it?


Q.  Patrick, if you had to take aside one major aspect, on the positive level, from this last month as far as yourself, your game is concerned, what would that be?

PATRICK RAFTER:  I think the consistency, you know, of being able to back it up pretty well nearly every week, except for the Davis Cup.  I felt like I played pretty well here this week.  The Davis Cup I felt like I struggled a little bit.  But I sort of came back here and I played well again.  I think that's important, to being a good player, consistency.  Hopefully can I keep it going now for the rest of the year, you know, and for the years to come.  You know, that's the most important thing.


Q.  Can you walk around Munich without people chasing you and wanting to have an autograph?

PATRICK RAFTER:  It's fine.  No one knows me here,  it's okay (laughter).


Q.  Pat, when you're in Bermuda, what do you do about practice?

PATRICK RAFTER:  I usually go there to do nothing is what I'm going to do.  You know, I feel like I deserve that.  If there's been a time where I've had to practice, my brother might come over and help me.  There's one or two local guys that don't hit a bad ball, so we go out and train.  Very rarely am I there to practice tennis.


Q.  What else do you get to do other than riding about in your moped?

PATRICK RAFTER:  My friend's got a boat, so I'm on the boat a lot.  Just lie on the beach.  Lie at his place, eat all his food.  He's got a great house.


Q.  Do you scuba dive and things like that?

PATRICK RAFTER:  No.  I've been offered to, a guy is going to teach me how to do it.  Might do that when I go back.  A lot of snorkeling as well.  Golf.  A lot of sleeping.


Q.  All the girls like you.  How do you notice that?

PATRICK RAFTER:  Do I notice it?


Q.  Yeah.

PATRICK RAFTER:  I notice it, yeah.  I don't have a problem with it, though.  It's a good thing.


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT