NCAA BASEBALL CHAMPIONSHIP SUPER REGIONALS: LUBBOCK
June 11, 2016
Cliff Godwin
Sam Lanier
Charlie Yorgen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Texas Tech - 3, East Carolina - 1 (F/13)   
CLIFF GODWIN: Tough loss.  You know, when you're trying to make your first trip to Omaha, it's not going to be easy.  They played just a little bit better than us.  Their best player, Gutierrez, got a big hit when they needed it, and we just couldn't seem to get one.  Great played game on both sides.  Great environment.  Tough place to play.  And you know, it'll take our best effort tomorrow to be able to bounce back.   
 Q.  Charlie, what does this type of game, 13 innings, how big of a drain is that on you and obviously having to come back and play at 2:00 p.m. tomorrow?  
CHARLIE YORGEN: I mean, yeah, it was long, it was hot, but it's no different than any other loss.  We have to come back tomorrow and be ready to play.  Like Coach Godwin said, it's never going to be easy and we don't want it to be easy, so we're just going to have to come out tomorrow and play our best baseball.   
 Q.  One run off 12 hits; what do you have to do tomorrow to get some more guys across the plate?  
CHARLIE YORGEN: Just get the big hit.  I don't know how many innings in a row or how many innings out of the game we had a runner on second and third with one, two, however many outs, and we just couldn't get him in.  Credit to their pitcher, but we need to have tougher at-bats tomorrow.   
 Q.  Sam, Gutierrez obviously, like Coach said, is their best player, good hitter.  Does your mindset, maybe take us through the at-bat kind of from your end obviously in a big spot in the game?  
SAM LANIER: I wanted to start him out with a couple sliders.  Obviously didn't get the strike on that first slider.  And that last pitch was a fastball outside, and he got a good swing off of it, and like you said, he's a good hitter.   
 Q.  Sam, how quickly do you want to put this behind you maybe if they call on you again tomorrow in another big environment?  
SAM LANIER: Immediately, yeah.  Coach Godwin just talked to me and said I've got to be ready tomorrow, so I'm going to be ready.   
 Q.  Charlie, how do you guys keep this from snowballing into tomorrow?  
CHARLIE YORGEN: You really don't have a choice.  It's win or go home tomorrow for both teams.  I believe that we're the toughest team in the country.  That's what we preach, so we have to be tough tomorrow.  We have to come out and we have to win.   
 Q.  Coach, the play where Joe covered first and there was a discussion with the umpires, what happened there?  
CLIFF GODWIN: You know, Joe had to cover first, and so their guy was running down the baseline.  It's a competitive game; there were some words exchanged.  You know, it's in the heat of the moment.  Other than that, it was no big deal.   
 Q.  Both teams obviously used a ton of pitching today.  I'm assuming you'll throw Wolfe tomorrow, but where does Ingle and maybe Bridges stand?  
CLIFF GODWIN: Joe is not going to be able to pitch tomorrow.  Joe is not going to be able to pitch.  Hopefully we'll have Bridges.  We'll also have Sam Lanier.  We'll have Chris Holba.  We'll have some guys who haven't thrown in a while, but hey, they prepare every single day for this moment, so they'll be called upon.   
 Q.  In the ninth with Phillips, I think it was the ninth with two on, did you think about bunting there, and take me through your mindset there.  
CLIFF GODWIN: I'm not trying to be a smart-aleck, but were you watching what they were doing defensively?  They were crashing both sides, so if we'd have bunted, they were going to throw right to third.  It was a force out.  If it would have been a non-force out where it would have been an attack play, it would have been easier for us to bunt.   
You make choices, you know, and I go for it, and we were going for the win there, and it didn't work out.  We could also pinch-hit Mozingo.  We didn't, but we went for it, and it didn't work out.   
 Q.  What does this sort of effort between these two teams say about these two teams and even the one you're lining up against?  
CLIFF GODWIN: Look, did we think that Texas Tech was going to roll over and just give us a trip to Omaha?  No.  I mean, they're the fifth national seed in the country and we're playing in front of 5,000 hostile fans that are pulling against us.   
You can't go through the back door to get to Omaha; you've got to go through the front door and tell everybody you're coming.  Either team is going to have to take it.  Nobody is going to give it to them.   
 Q.  Coach, how do you keep this from snowballing into tomorrow?  
CLIFF GODWIN: Hey, got to win one pitch at a time.  I'm pretty confident in this group.  It was a tough loss.  I did not think we had as much pep in our step today as we did last night, but Texas Tech played better than us, but we need to play better.  We need to be more alert.  We need to be tougher for us to be able to win tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT