ROSE BOWL GAME PRESENTED BY VIZIO: STANFORD v WISCONSIN
December 27, 2012
Montee Ball
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions.   
   
 Q.   We've seen the last few years that TCU, the first quarter whizzed by.   What is it about bowl games?   Is it the layoff?   Takes time for defenses to catch up to speed?   
MONTEE BALL:   I honestly don't know.   I couldn't give you an answer to that.   
I just want to say the focus we've had leading up to this game was to start fast like we did in the championship game.   We're going to bring that same intensity and level of focus to this game.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
MONTEE BALL:   Yeah, by far.   Like I said, they're very physical.   They're big.   They're big up front.   The linebackers are very physical.   Like I said, they play extremely smart, which allows for them to make great plays.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
MONTEE BALL:   I asked him a few questions about how they play.   They said they're a lot faster than people think and they'll shock you at times because they're great athletes.   
We've just been focusing on starting fast, like I said.   
   
 Q.   Not the type of team you think when you think PAC‑12?  
MONTEE BALL:   Well, yeah.   I mean, you don't expect them to be as big as they are being in that conference.   But they're big and very physical.   
   
 Q.   Similar to some of the teams you face in terms of their philosophy?   
MONTEE BALL:   Yeah.   They remind me a lot of Penn State.   They play very smart, they're well‑coached, play with a lot of heart.   
   
 Q.   You got a lot of the wildcat the second half of the season.   
MONTEE BALL:   We just want to utilize James a lot more because we feel like him on the bench, you don't want to keep him there.   Get the ball in his hands in open space, he makes great plays.  
   
 Q.   How does that change things up for you?  
MONTEE BALL:   Tempo.   In a way, it's kind of like a hurry‑up.   He lines up behind the center, snaps it to them, runs wherever they're not.   It's been working, very effective.   
   
 Q.   Is it hard for defenses to get the numbers?   
MONTEE BALL:   Yeah.   You can see them looking at the wristbands, sidelines with their hands up.   At times they don't know where to line up at.   A lot of teams don't practice that.   It's kind of a trick we have in the bag.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
MONTEE BALL:   Yeah.   Like I said, we always want to get the ball in James' hands in open space because he's a very fast back.   He's agile.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
MONTEE BALL:   Yeah, it's been a hectic season.   I always tell people it's one step forwards, two steps back kind of deal for us because we faced a lot of adversity, this team has.   
We're very fortunate to be here based upon the two teams in our conference that have been sanctioned.   But I still think we made a point to the entire nation that we deserved to be here by how we played in the championship game, because we still had to beat Nebraska.   
   
 Q.   Between the two teams, you played five overtime games this year.   
MONTEE BALL:   Man.   
   
 Q.   Is it something about the styles of the way you play?   Are you expecting a similar type of close game?  
MONTEE BALL:   Oh, yeah.   I mean, it's going to be a four‑quarter game for sure.   We're kind of very similar.   Establish the run game and just keep at 'em downhill.   
I expect it to be a very physical fourth quarter game.   The team with the least amount of penalties that stays focused the longest will win.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
MONTEE BALL:   Yeah, I think it just narrows it down to the young players on our team.   With a lot more experience, which they'll gain, I believe we would have come out on top in the games.   We have a lot of young players that obviously need time to develop and kind of get the feel of the game, how it goes.   
   
 Q.   How do you describe the quarterback position on this team?   
MONTEE BALL:   Well, the quarterback position on our team is someone who can just kind of facilitate, manage the game.   With Stave, when he was playing for us, with the deep ball he did a great job.   Once Curt stepped in, he does a great job of staying poised, keeping us calm.   He can make a lot of plays on his feet.   Makes him a triple‑threat quarterback.   
He does the same things that Stave does, just kind of manage the game.   He does everything right.   
   
 Q.   How hard is that for a quarterback to be not the star?   
MONTEE BALL:   That's kind of the person he is.   He doesn't care to take all the credit, which is a great thing about this team.   We don't care who gets the credit, we just want the win.   I think he really displays that.   
   
 Q.   Given what he's been through, you have to be happy for him.   
MONTEE BALL:   Oh, yeah.   Man, he's been through a lot, injuries, surgeries, all that stuff.   To see him still battle through, by having the opportunity to lead this team to the Rose Bowl, we have a lot of respect for him.   
   
 Q.   You've talked before about being at peace about your comeback.   
MONTEE BALL:   I still feel like for me, personally, I've done a lot of things better this year than I did last season.   I still have the opportunity to lead the team to another championship game and another Rose Bowl.   It would be a lot better if we won.   If we didn't, I still would be glad with my decision.   
   
 Q.   What do you think will be the biggest obstacle going forward with a new coaching staff?  
MONTEE BALL:   I mean, it's going to be difficult for them obviously to learn a new playbook, defensive players, too.   But I think by us returning a lot of people, think that helps out a lot, the chemistry, everybody working together.   
To see we can be great next year helps out a lot, too.   I think that's the mentality after the Rose Bowl game leading into next year.   
   
 Q.   Five losses by a total of six points in regulation.   Do you think people appreciate that?   All you see is 8‑5.   Not many plays from being 13‑0.   
MONTEE BALL:   Under‑appreciate?   That's exactly what I tell a lot of people, that our record doesn't show how good we are.   I think we're a lot better than what our record shows.   We had a lot of close games that we fell on the bad side of.   
We're still blessed to be where we're at right now.   We were a couple of plays away of being undefeated.   That's kind of the message going into this game, got to take every play like it's your last play and every play matters.   
   
 Q.   You can tell people that, but...   
MONTEE BALL:   Obviously a lot of people are going to say, Your record does show what a team you guys are.   A lot of people don't.   Obviously I think we should be undefeated based upon how we've been playing lately.   
   
 Q.   What about the 'want to' factor of a team that has been here twice and lost?   You have to win the Rose Bowl.   You know what it feels like to lose.   
MONTEE BALL:   Yeah, we feel like we have something to prove.   We feel like we want to show everybody, first off, we deserve to be there, that we deserve to win.   Based on the last times we played, we're taking from each game, like I say, every play matters and the best players on the team have to play their best in this game, seniors, leaders and captains.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
MONTEE BALL:   Yeah, I don't know.   We just have a knack for playing close with teams.   I think it just comes down to, like I said, you have to play every play like it's your last and keep your foot on the gas starting the game, coming out of the locker room after halftime, just stay mentally focused and ready.   
   
 Q.   You took care of some business by beating Nebraska to get here.   You have a reputation of not being able to win a close game.   Until you do it, are there doubts in players' minds?   
MONTEE BALL:   I think it's the other way around for us.   I guess looking on the bright side of the games we lost very close, we can kind of say, If it happens this way with a close game, a minute left to go, we score, we've been in this situation many times.   
I guess kind of the way we're going to approach it if it happens is that we've been in this situation, we know how to handle it.   Don't crack under the pressure, like I said.   Just play your game.   
   
 Q.   Been a different mindset this trip?   
MONTEE BALL:   It's actually been a lot different.   A lot of players don't have the big eyes anymore because we've been here.   It's our third time.   Everyone is used to the atmosphere, the fast life of L.A. and Pasadena.   Everyone is relaxed, staying in the game room, staying together.   The message that I keep hearing is, Always remember why we're down here.   That's what I keep hearing.   That's great to hear.   
   
 Q.   There's a game room?  
MONTEE BALL:   In the hotel.   Everyone is down there staying together, playing games, going to sleep.   
   
 Q.   Is there much you want to do this week outside of the football?  
MONTEE BALL:   I mean, yeah.   We have our team activities that we do.   Yesterday Disneyland.   Today Improv show.   Today Lawry's, which is very fun.   Like I said, I think players are a lot more focused this year.   You can clearly see it.   Had a great practice yesterday.   
   
 Q.   Coach Alvarez?   
MONTEE BALL:   The swagger he brings, the confidence, everything.   We love the talks he gives us before practice, and after practice, to be ready for tomorrow or the next practice.   We love everything that he's done for us or that he has been doing for us.   We plan on rewarding him, if we're blessed enough, with a win.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
MONTEE BALL:   Yeah, just about.   It's a close half hour to 40, 45 minutes off the field than last year.   A lot of players, I've been hearing the legs feel fresh, bodies feel fresh.   A lot more time to attack the film room because you're off the field a lot earlier.   Just being mentally ready is what you need for this game because it's going to be a crazy atmosphere, and you're playing against a very smart team.   
   
 Q.   What is it about those talks that impresses you?   
MONTEE BALL:   We like it that he talks to us before practice because he kind of tells us what he wants to see, how he wants practice to go.   I guess by preparing us that way, we know what to give him.   It helps us out, too, by knowing what to show him, what he wants to see so we can all get off the field and rest our legs.   
   
 Q.   How would you describe his swag?  
MONTEE BALL:   Just his confidence.   Swagger is confidence.   Obviously losing twice here, now being down here a third time, we need some confidence.   I believe he brought it to us.   It's helping out a lot.   We're playing with a lot more confidence now.   Obviously you need that for football.   
   
 Q.   He has two artificial knees.   
MONTEE BALL:   When I say the way he walks, he's just very familiar with the area, has a great track record here (laughter).   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
MONTEE BALL:   Barry Sanders' kid is here?   Seriously?   Wow!   Hey, they'll be ready (laughter).   
They prepare well, say that.   
   
 Q.   Do you remember Barry Sanders?  
MONTEE BALL:   Not really.   When I was young, young, young.   He was still in the league, but I didn't see much.   
   
 Q.   Early '90s.   
MONTEE BALL:   I was born in '90.   I will actually.   I'll shoot him a tweet.   He tweeted me I think when I broke the record.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
MONTEE BALL:   He just poured it on him, just everything.   He wanted to call every single thing in the playbook, and he did.   He had confidence it would work, and we did as well.  
   
 Q.   What changed going into that game?  
MONTEE BALL:   It's tough.   I think, hmm, the confidence we showed him through our practice, by the plays we're working in practice and our level of practice throughout practice, by showing him the plays he'll call will work.   It's a two‑way street.   We both had confidence it would work.   
   
 Q.   First time you saw the game plan, what did you think?  
MONTEE BALL:   We all had a great feeling it would work.   We all knew these plays would work, based on how we were practicing, how focused we were.   We were just waiting for him to call them, and he did.  
   
 Q.   Anything left in the bag of tricks?  
MONTEE BALL:   Oh, yeah.   He was talking about a few on the way in here.   
Like I said, he's a funny character because he loves to do tricks, wild things with the offense, keeps things spicy.   
   
 Q.   (Question regarding Stanford's defense.)   
MONTEE BALL:   Yeah, they are.   Give credit to Nebraska.   They deserved to be there just as much as we did.   
But Stanford, their ranking speaks for itself.   They are a very physical and tough team, deserve to be in the Rose Bowl.   
   
 Q.   Talking to James, I remember two years ago in the run‑up to the TCU game, nobody knew what was going to happen, how has he handled being the number two guy?  
MONTEE BALL:   He's handled it great.   He understands.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT