BIG EAST CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 9, 2000
Erick Barkley
Mike Jarvis
Lavor Postell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







COACH JARVIS: First of all, I just want to congratulate the very fine Villanova team, a
team that obviously did not quit. It would have been very easy for them to do so, they
didn't. Somehow we found a way to win again, and, you know, and obviously make it
exciting. A lot closer than we would have liked, but we will take it and look forward to
tomorrow's game against Miami.

Q. Coach, how did the team find the energy in the last two minutes to make the plays
that they had to make to win?

COACH JARVIS: Well, probably the same -- I'd say the same way that the guys have found
the energy all year, from way down deep inside. We saw, you know, a game that we had total
control of basically go out of our control, and, luckily, the guys decided that the season
was not going to end tonight and just found a way. A will of the way to win, as they've
done all year. As we said before, this team is very resilient and certainly knows how to
bounce back and has proven that again tonight.

Q. Do you have any explanation as to what happened in the second half, how it got away
from you?

COACH JARVIS: Yeah, Villanova scored more baskets than we did and they had a good run
in the second half when we didn't and that's why they went ahead and we went behind. Then
we had a run at the end and they didn't and we won.

Q. That part I kind of observed myself. I was wondering --

COACH JARVIS: I was just wondering if you were in the building.

Q. -- tactically speaking.

COACH JARVIS: Tactically speaking, their offense during a long stretch of the second
half was better than our defense, and they hit some shots that they were missing in the
first half and I guess our guys thought they were going to continue to miss. There was a
lack of, I thought, for too long a period of time there was a lack of real defensive
intensity and it was almost like, you know, we got to a position I think tonight where we
felt that we could probably turn it on when we wanted to because we did that a couple of
times. Unfortunately, you just -- you know, you just can't do that all the time.

Q. This is for the coach or either of the players, you're facing Miami next, they're a
team that you faced a short time ago, great game down there. What do you expect? They had
a tough one tonight as well.

LAVOR POSTELL: Yeah, we're looking forward to this game again. Miami's a good team and
I think we're a good team, so it's gonna be another battle tomorrow.
COACH JARVIS: Like Lavor said, they're an excellent basketball team. They're as good a
defensive team as I think you'll find. They've got size, they're athletic and they're
cochamps of the Big East and they did beat us less than a week ago. But it was a great
game, and we thought that we had a chance to win that game and I think the fans will be in
for a real good night of basketball tomorrow night.

Q. Coach, talk about the play against Malik Allen who scored 25 the first time you guys
played.

COACH JARVIS: You know, Malik, it seems like every time they needed a big basket he
made the basket. I think sometimes, you know, you look at stats and they can be very
deceiving. There might be a night when a guy gets 20 and not really make the big ones. It
just seemed like tonight, if he had less, it still seemed like he made some pretty big
baskets against you, and I'm glad that he didn't hit the last shot he took.

Q. Mike, this late in the season, is it disconcerting or unsettling that they can get
into a position where they think they can turn it on and turn it off?

COACH JARVIS: It's disconcerting at any time of the season. And yet it's also kind of
nice to know that this group, even though they may, you know -- some time I wonder if they
just like making things exciting, you know, since they're in New York and they maybe think
that they have to keep the crowd around for the whole game. It's almost as if, you know,
they're trying to make sure that nobody leaves the house. But the bottom line is they find
a way to win, and I think that's the thing that, you know, I'm certainly going to continue
to focus on as opposed -- on the positive as opposed to negative. If we continue to win
and continue to feel that it's disconcerting in doing so, then you know what, we'll have
had a great year.

Q. For Eric and Lavor, did you guys actually believe that you could just turn it on and
turn it off and did you lose a little focus in the second half because you had your way in
the first half? For either or both preferably?

LAVOR POSTELL: I don't think so. Like Coach said, they was missing shots they didn't
normally make in the first half. Second half they stepped the game out. They wasn't going
out without a fight. They hung around. We made some clutch backs, too, and we came up with
the win.

Q. Eric, if you'd like to speak that would be okay, too.

ERICK BARKLEY: We didn't make the shots that we made the first half. They converted
their shots, so, you know, that kind of turned the game around.

Q. For both Eric and Lavor, the last three meetings with Miami have been wars, overtime
games. What specifically do you guys have to do better tomorrow to win?

ERICK BARKLEY: Start the inside game I think. Mario Bland and El Tyler, I don't want to
say field date but they played real well against them down in Florida. If we can control
them, contain Johnny Hemsley, we're okay.
LAVOR POSTELL: Same thing really. Don't give up rebounding, control big men and keep
out for Johnny Hemsley.

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT