SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 2, 2006
Stephany Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   COACH STEPHANY SMITH:  It kind of been a season full of us one-half performances; 25, 30-minute performances and tonight was another one of those nights.   
 I thought we played extremely well both offensively and defensively in the first 20 minutes of this basketball game.  I thought we did a good job of keeping them off the offensive rebounds, communicating shooters and having awareness of where their shooters were.  They picked us apart a little bit with a high-low game.   
 I think the first half we had good efforts.  In the second half about after the first media timeout, around the ten-minute mark, they had built a ten-point lead.  We were still fighting but then they knocked down a few three-point shots with miscommunication, we didn't communicate shooters and we passed by shooters that were right in the zone.   
 And then we just kind of shut down.  That was really unfortunate.  It went from a 10-point game to a 30-point game in a matter of moments.   
 I am thankful that we at least showed some fight in the last three minutes to at least fight for respect if nothing else.   
  Q.  How much of it had to do with your short bench?  Was there a fatigue factor there?   
 COACH STEPHANY SMITH:  We have had a short bench for different reasons all season long, whether it was foul trouble or injuries, and we're absolutely loaded with injuries.  And one thing that you probably don't know about Lauren Hill, she plays a lot.  She plays as hard as she does, she's very limited in what we're allowed to put her in there for.  She can only play four, five minutes at a time.  So our bench is even shorter than it appears.   
 There are a lot of teams that play with a short bench.  There are a lot of teams that only play a seven-man roster.   
 So yes, I think that's a factor.  I think that it's weighed heavily on us all season long.  But I don't think there's anything wrong -- I think seven people can come out here and get it done night in, night out.  I mean, Florida beat Tennessee with five on the road.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT