U.S. SENIOR WOMEN'S AMATEUR
August 28, 2019
Caryn Wilson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So congratulations on being a semifinalist; congratulation on your bronze medal.
CARYN WILSON: Thank you.
Q. What were your impression of today's match?
CARYN WILSON: Now I just wasn't as sharp as I had been. It's a lot of golf for me. I don't play that many tournaments. Sue plays a lot around the world.
And so it was a great week for me that way, but it's also a long week. And I just -- a good friend of mine Mary Budke who won the Am back in '72. She once told me you're always going to have one match where you struggle, and if you can find a way to win that, and this one was it. I just couldn't quite get it done.
It was the one match just wasn't quite firing on all cylinders. Sue played great. She played the last hole great. I haven't played that hole since Sunday and so I need to play it a few more times.
Q. You'll be at the Mid Amateur in just a few short weeks.
CARYN WILSON: Yeah.
Q. Is was this a good warmup for that?
CARYN WILSON: Absolutely. Just competitive-wise it's great. Yeah, good to play competition. I played the State Am a couple weeks ago with the kids, the flat bellies as they call them. It'll be fun.
Q. What are your thoughts on your overall play this week?
CARYN WILSON: It was an interesting week for me. Usually my husband is with me. Actually my husband is always with me caddying for my whole career. This is the first tournament I've been on my own.
In a lot of ways it was good. I had to sort of rely on -- I made mistakes, but I had to rely on what I was seeing and thinking. It was a turning point. I actually turned the corner with how I'm playing.
It was the first time I've actually hit it -- the last few days I've hit it better than I have in a long time, so that part was good. This afternoon was a little frustrating. Overall it was a good turning point for me. I might keep playing. I might not quit.
Q. That's great news. So when you look back on this week, is there something that sticks out as a super memorable moment?
CARYN WILSON: Golly, I don't know. I mean, I think as frustrating as this match was, it was fun. We had some members and people out watching which made it fun. It's competition. I knew I wasn't sharp but I hit a few good shots.
It was just -- you know, I like competition. I grew up playing tennis. It's kind of in my blood I guess. I play monopoly or -- so I can't think of one moment. I'm sorry.
Q. That's all right. It was a lot of great moments.
CARYN WILSON: It was a good week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT