U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP MEDIA DAY
April 27, 2015
Jermaine Kearse
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






Q.   Can you talk about how you got into the game of golf?   Your dad started you in this?
    JERMAINE KEARSE:   Yeah, my stepdad Steve started me.   It was about two years ago, and I used to just go to the range just to have fun, and it got competitive with him, and he brought me out to the course with him.   My brothers got into it, so it just became a family competition. 

Q.   What have you learned about the game that's maybe a little different than football? 
    JERMAINE KEARSE:   Just the mental aspect, just being focused for 18 holes, a five‑hour span is definitely challenging and just being consistent with your technique and your swing and all the fundamentals. 

Q.   You grew up near here in Lakewood.   What do you remember about what this looked like before you became a park and a golf course?
    JERMAINE KEARSE:   It wasn't much.   I used to always hang out over at Sunny Side Park not too far along from here, and the course just opened right when I was graduating high school in 2008, and just to see how it's grown and the popularity and being able to host a major in such a short amount of time is definitely nice to see, especially in my hometown.

Q.   You've been a part of the Super Bowl experience.   What do you think having a U.S. Open is going to be like for the folks in this area? 
    JERMAINE KEARSE:   Oh, it's going to be amazing, just to bring that type of publicity and just that type of event and bringing so many people here and just being able to let them experience my hometown and being able to experience this great course, it's going to be a lot of fun.

Q.   Do you anticipate coming out here to watch the play? 
    JERMAINE KEARSE:   Most definitely.   I'll definitely be out here.

Q.   What golfer would you follow, or who are two or three that you'd be interested in‑‑
    JERMAINE KEARSE:   I mean, Tiger, obviously, the hometown guy, Ryan Moore, who's also from Puyallup, which is not too far, and after his performance at the Masters, you've got to follow Jordan Spieth. 

Q.   Have you played here?
    JERMAINE KEARSE:   Yeah, I've played here a couple times.

Q.   What were your impressions? 
    JERMAINE KEARSE:   I loved it.   It's definitely a tough track.   Once you get some of the knowledge out there playing a couple times, it gets a little easier.   Just a little bit. 

Q.   You haven't told us your score yet. 
    JERMAINE KEARSE:   I mean, the best score I shot was an 88 here.   That's pretty good for me.   Hopefully we'll improve that today. 

Q.   What's the biggest difference you've noticed from playing a course like this as opposed to maybe another course in the area? 
    JERMAINE KEARSE:   That there's no trees except for that one right over there. 

Q.   Does the ball tend to run out more after you hit a shot?
    JERMAINE KEARSE:   Oh, it definitely runs out a lot more.   For me the hardest part is just kind of finding where the green is because it's just that links style, and not being from Washington, you're not used to that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT