U.S. SENIOR OPEN
June 29, 2018
Miguel Angel Jimenez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Pleased to welcome Miguel Angel Jimenez, who shot a bogey-free 68 today.  Second place here at the U.S. Open.  Thank you for patiently waiting.  A bogey-free round at the Broadmoor is pretty good golf.  Tell us about that, please.   
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: Yeah.  It's very good golf.  The way I played today is very solid.  A lot of chances for birdies.  I missed two fairways only.  I managed to put the ball on the green.  And I still played for some birdies there also.  And then I make 33 putts.   
I missed only one green on No. 1 where I pulled it with my wedge and then I make a recovery on that one.  And then the two birdies and I make for the round.  68.  It's good.  I played very well, very solid from tee to green and I had a good time.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions for Miguel.   
 Q.  With a game as frustrating as golf can be seems like you're always having fun out there, you got a great personality on the golf course.  What is it that you're able to do to always just kind of stay loose and have a good time?  
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: Well, it's -- you need to -- it's hard enough to, golf is hard enough and the conditions we play there it's hard enough to not try to enjoy yourself.  If you're going to get mad because you miss a putt or something, it's not worth it.  It's much better to be nice to be to happy.  And of course sometimes you feel sadness, but you have to take it out of your mind.  You need to enjoy yourself and try to concentrate on the next one.   
 Q.  Obviously this is a world class venue, but how would you compare this course, being a veteran of courses all over the world for the last few years?  
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: Well, it's not nice to compare things.  I don't like to compare things.  If you compare something, something's going to win, something's going to lose.  The golf course is superb.  We play the U.S. Open, the U.S. Open always we play in tough conditions.  When you see the U.S. Open, you have it on a golf course that is very tough.  And this golf course is prepared for us tougher.  You can see the results.  You can see what happened.  You miss the fairway, it's going to be tough to make a par from there.  If you miss a green it's almost like a bogey, really.  And like happens on any other golf course that you prepare for the U.S. Open, you play not the U.S. Open, the difference, at the end of four rounds, the score is maybe 20 shots easier.   
 Q.  One follow-up question.  When will you be the captain of the European Ryder Cup team?  
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: I'm not going to be the captain of the European Ryder Cup.  My time is going by on that thing.  Yes.  Of course.  It's one of the things that it always, because the captain is also playing every week out there too, you're playing with them every week.  You are the captain, you know the players, you can go have a dinner with them, talking with them and things, you make all the things that happens.  I don't play any more on the regular tour, full-time on the European Tour.  I still play some, but I don't play full-time.  I belong now to the Champions Tour.  I still make some tournaments on the European Tour because I still like to play with the young guys, but not anymore on the road to be with them every single week.  And I don't want to be anymore the captain, my time has run by.  I played four times, I've been assistant captain for another three times and I think now it's time for the other people to do that.  We're not here forever.  We would like to, but we can no the.   
 Q.  What have you learned about the greens and the putting here over the first two rounds?  
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: Sorry?   
 Q.  What have you learned about putting on this golf course?  
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: What did I learn?  Well I don't know if I learned something or not.  I think the hole is moving a lot, you know?   
(Laughter.)   
I can say I don't miss any putt.  I hit the whole thing, right in the middle, but then the hole is moving, you know?   
(Laughter.)   
No, the thing is the main thing you have to take care on those greens is be always on the low side of the hole.  Because you're going to have more chances because you can be a little more positive, more aggressive.  When you are sideways or downhill, you cannot hit it or you cannot hit it that aggressive or that consistent, because if you miss the hole you know it's going to go whoosh, bye-bye.  But then you need to be below of the hole.   
THE MODERATOR: If things stand as they are now you'll be playing with Jerry again for the third day in a row.  Is that pretty good comfort level for you?   
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: No, it's fine.  It's good.  He's playing very well, he's playing very solid for two rounds.  And we both are playing very good.  And I think it's good.  It's nice.  I don't mind.  He's a nice guy and he's a nice player and it's good.   
THE MODERATOR: In the first two rounds when you were playing together did you need feed off of each other?   
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: Always it's nice, always it's nice when you play with, with people who are playing good.  It's like a transmit, you know?  And it's always nice.  I always like to play with people who are hitting good and things because that means you are also too, to motivate yourself and focus on yourself.  Does that do it?  Thank you very much.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT