U.S. SENIOR OPEN
June 29, 2018
Miguel Angel Jimenez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Not quite as many ups and downs today.  It seemed today was just straight consistent for you.  Were you happy overall with the way you played today?  
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: Well I'm happy the way I'm hitting the ball.  The result probably does not show what's been happening on the golf course today.  I played with 33 putts today for 2-under.  Missed only one green.  Made two birdies.  A lot of chances.  I missed only two fairways.  But I managed to put the ball on the green and still play for birdies.  But that's it.  I'm happy with my game, I played very solid, and the only thing I hope for the weekend is to hit the ball that way and hole some more putts.   
 Q.  You seem to play these U.S. Senior Opens pretty well.  
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: Yeah, well I'm still hitting the ball very well and I've been very solid there.  The U.S. Open always the golf course is prepared tough.  The rough, solid rough, narrow fairways, hard greens and fast.  The golf course is a great golf course.  It's very, very well prepared, the conditions, yeah.  I used to play very straight from the tee also and my irons, they are very good irons.  And I'm, of course I hope I keep that up this year and next year and the year after and I keep it rolling, you know?   
 Q.  If you had a choice, did you enjoy playing early today better or later yesterday better?  
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: Okay, the gusty winds in the afternoon were tough.  Today it's a little breezy, but it's nothing compared to yesterday when we start to play in the afternoon.  To me I would prefer to play late/early always.  Because you have -- when you start to play a competition late, you finish, shower, dinner, wake up, go compete again.  When you play in the morning, you play in the morning, all the afternoon do nothing, just practicing, thinking.  Next day, all morning, do nothing but thinking.  And then play.  The gap is too big.  I prefer late/early, everything goes in a row.   
 Q.  So what's on the agenda for this afternoon since you're done?  
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: No, well now I'm going to have some lunch.  I'm going to go speak with my family that's in European.  Then I'm going to chip a little bit and hit some putts.  I need to putt a little bit to see if I can find the ball in the hole for the weekend.  And then I'm going to have a little nap.   
 Q.  Any particular hole that you would say is your least favorite?  
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: Well, sorry, what?   
 Q.  Is there any particular hole that you played that you just don't like out there?  
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: All the holes, they are testing.  You need to put the ball in the fairway.  One has a dogleg left, one has a dogleg right, you know, and all of them are demanding precise shots.  It would not be fair to say this one or the other one, I think the whole thing is very demanding.  And if you don't hit the proper shot, you're going to be in trouble.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT