ITALIAN OPEN
June 3, 2018
Miguel Angel Jimenez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. A round of 8 under par to close.  You've still got it.  Tell us what the secret was?
MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Well, the secret, it's beautiful weather, nice olive oil, nice wine.  Basic things, no.
Q. Why does it always come back down to wine with you?
MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Yeah, because everybody says, this guy, he plays golf -- okay, I never had it myself.  But, why, you know, I enjoy what I do in my life.  You know, I love to play golf.  I love to compete and I feel nice on the golf course, and I've been hitting good.  Still in good form.  And this venue --
Q. Now on the Champions Tour, a major winner, as well, but doing what you're doing here, does it cross your mind to leave the old guys alone and come back out here?
MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: No, no.  I enjoy myself playing on the Champions Tour.  It's really very good, very competitive, very nice, and also, of course, I like to play on the regular tour because I'm still coming here.  I'm going to play the minimum that you have to play on the regular tour, maybe a couple of tournaments more.
But I don't want to leave the champions.  This is my 30th season around the world and I think a little bit, I need to breathe a little bit, not thinking about cards.  Just play straightforward and that's nice, also.
Q. That's a fantastic round of 63 to finish off here.  You look like you're enjoying your golf more than ever?
MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Yeah, well, still enjoying it very much.  Hitting the ball very good, very solid, putting it very close to the hole.  I make 8-under, and it's supposed to be 11 or 12 today.  I played so good and I missed a few chances there.
But saying that, I feel comfortable and I feel good with my game, and that's it.
Q. Fantastic location, Lake Garda, golf courses don't come much better than that.
MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: No, beautiful, and weather is with us all the week, and it's a beautiful place, and the little village here, gastronomy, the wine, it's good.  It's a place to enjoy.
Q. It's great to see you back on The European Tour and now you're on the Staysure Tour, and you're a major winner after winning in the USA.  How proud are you to have a major title?
MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Well, it's coming very late but it's coming at last.  I feel so happy now that it's coming.  It take too long but I hope it's not the last.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT