OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 26, 2018
Miguel Angel Jimenez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Tell us how much you're enjoying yourself so far this week.
MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: I always enjoy Dubai very much, with this beautiful weather and these conditions, the golf course is a golf course that I always like to play.  And my game is nice.  I hit very nice, solid, control the ball.  That's what you need to do, and I quite enjoy it very much.
It's a nice golf course.  I've won here in 2010, and a golf course where I feel like I can defend myself with my game, and here we are.
Q. What were your reasons for coming over?
MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Still like to play with the young boys.  Still like to play on The European Tour.
Obviously now I play 90 per cent of the tournament I play on the Champions Tour, but I still love to come here to some tournaments.  The golf course, it's a golf course that I can defend myself and play and be competitive.  That's what I want to, and see another new generation of guys coming up.  I see a lot of faces I don't know here.  That's good.
Q. What pleased you most about your performance?
MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: I think I've been feeling everything good.  Hitting good from the tee, putting good.  All the game's good, and especially I play with all the people around, I'm happy to be here and they are happy to see me here.
Q. How did you cope with the delay this morning?
MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Well, it's not the first time it happened, you know.  This is my 30th season, it happened more than one:  A rain delay, fog delay, thunderstorm delay.  At the end of the day, you don't think about it.  You just go there and relax a little bit, moving around, go and have another breakfast.  And, well, talking with the other players, you know, moving around.  There's nothing to do.
Q. What are you going to do now?
MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Well, going to finish my cigar, going to have a small nap and I'm going to have a beautiful bottle of wine we are going to tonight.
Q. Any particular?
MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Trying to find Spanish Tempranillo.  I know where to find it.  Maybe going to go to the Spanish restaurant in the Souk.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT