THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 29, 2017
Miguel Angel Jimenez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Your thoughts on today's round?  You were on fire at one stage?  
MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Yeah, I played very well, very solid all day long.  It's a pity the way I finished on the last hole, no, and that is what you're getting on the 18th.  But I have my 5-iron second shot after a beautiful birdie there and then a bogey, just get on the wrong side of the bunker.  Well, that happened.  But overall, I played very well, very solid.  Started with birdie on the first and 3-under the first nine holes, and a very solid back nine.   
 Q.  At one stage, you were on for a new course record?  
MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Yes?   
 Q.  Not now, but you must take a lot of positives out of it?  
MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Except 18 but under par is good.  Today after yesterday, we've been playing in brutal conditions in the afternoon, and today, well, this is a little bit more peace and we enjoy it very much the golf course today in these conditions.   
 Q.  And the performance has put you right back in the mix for the Claret Jug?  
MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Yeah, well, as you see, Bernhard Langer is doing very well.  He's 4-under at the moment after eight holes.  But there we are, tomorrow is another day and tomorrow we hope to keep on the same score as today.   
 Q.  How exciting was it to make some birdies?  
MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: It's been very exciting.  Playing very well from the very first hole.  I start with a birdie on the first and I make 3-under par on the first nine, and then I birdie on 10, 11, put me back to minus seven.  It's a pity the way I finish 18 with a beautiful drive in the middle of the fairway.  My 5-iron, I finish in the wrong side of the bunker, almost unplayable there.  Then make the putt from the other side of the green and missed a short one.   
Overall, the course, playing well, and obviously under par is good and more par is more good.  After two days, it was nice.   
 Q.  Starting the day did you think you could make this kind of move?  
MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: I've been thinking to myself, I've been hitting good.  Yesterday in the bad conditions we have, 3-under par after 13 holes, and I finish, it was brutal, the back nine holes, I was feeling good.   
Today I know is a very important day to try to jump up as much as possible.  You know, hitting well, been hitting good shots, putting close, make some putts.  That's what you need, no.   
 Q.  What do you need tomorrow?  
MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: I need the same mood as today.  Very important to start well and put some pressure.  There's a lot of people there.  Bernhard Langer, Corey Pavin, you know, there's a lot of good players there, and myself.  We'll see tomorrow.   
 Q.  A third round 65 to putt you right back into contention for a major championship.  How delighted are you with that score?  
MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Well, it's very nice.  Feeling very good all day on the golf course.  Start with a birdie on the first and I've been hitting very solid, minus seven to the last hole.   
Pity I finished with a bogey on the last.  Hit a beautiful drive, 5-iron in my hand to the green.  The ball finished to the wrong side of the bunker.  Hit a shot to the back of the green and 2-putt from there.  Overall I played very well.   
 Q.  How tough a break was it on 18 for you?  
MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Well, a beautiful day after 17 holes, well, 17 1/2, it's a beautiful day.  I hit a beautiful drive to the middle of the fairway, and I have a 5-iron in my hands, and you make a bogey, you feel pain.  But 6-under par, I have to take it.   
 Q.  Were you aware of the course record?  
MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: No, I didn't know until now they tell me that I've been close to have the course record after I finish.   
 Q.  Talk about the eagle on 13.  
MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Beautiful.   
 Q.  And the celebration?  
MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: I hit a beautiful drive and I hit my 2-iron just to the edge of the green there and then I have like eight-metre putt.  Then I hit a beautiful putt right in the hole.  I deserve it to make a little show.  Put some smiles on the faces.   
 Q.  How excited are you about the challenge ahead tomorrow, chasing your first senior major championship?  
MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Well, I tell you before, no, it's going to be tough tomorrow.  Bernhard is playing well, he's minus four for the day, and Corey Pavin is there also.  A lot of good players are fighting for that.  We are going to see tomorrow, how I'm feeling with the same mood.  A good start is very important.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT