THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 23, 2016
Miguel Angel Jimenez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
GORDON SIMPSON: Well, that was impressive, very good, and very nearly a record equalling the course record of 64.  Nine people have done it and you were nearly the 10th.  It must have been a very good day's work for you.   
MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Yeah, it was a very nice day on the golf course.  I played very solid from tee to green, on the greens and everything, everything is working perfectly today.  If I don't make the last putt to make 64 after I hit a beautiful shot from the tee and a 5 iron.  But it's very nice, I'm very happy with the day and the score.   
GORDON SIMPSON: You played the last 2 holes beautifully?   
MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: 4 iron, second shot there at 17th, nice and high with a little fade    long iron, very nice, and 5 iron on the last hole after I found the fairway with a beautiful driver there, also, and nice way to finish.  Happy.   
GORDON SIMPSON: You've put yourself in very good position to win that major championship that you've always wanted.   
MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Yeah, I'm in a situation that tomorrow, it's another day.  You come to the golf course and if you do what you did today and everything happens.   
 Q.  You've achieved a lot in your career.  What would winning in Scotland mean to you?  
MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Well, it would mean a lot, winning, if I win tomorrow, if I win this major it would be amazing if I can do that.  Here, in the Home of Golf, it would be fantastic.   
 Q.  Do you have another pair of tartan trousers for tomorrow?  
MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: No, this is the only one.  This is the only one.  Tomorrow I will see.     my cap tomorrow.   
 Q.  You look so relaxed when you're out on the golf course, but will there be nerves or?  
MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Of course I care.  I love what I do in my life.  I have 28 years already on the Tour now and you manage to float around the golf course but relaxing to me is not that you don't care.  No, I care a lot, because I love what I'm doing and I want to do good.  Tomorrow I will try to do my best obviously and I will try to be as relaxed as possible.   
 Q.  Miguel, do you reckon you're playing now as well as you were ten years ago?  Seems like it.  
MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Well, I think the best period of my life in my career is the last 12 years.  I start winning more in that period than in all my career.  I win after the downside of my career.  I won the Mallorca Open in 2003, just before I reached 40.  Then 2004, I had five victories in 2004.  And since that to here, almost everything happened in my career.   
 Q.  Is that technical or mental?  
MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Well, as I said before, keep learning, keep learning, keep learning, and the main thing probably is I love what I do in my life.  And probably the experience that you will get, I keep working myself to update myself and probably everything helps, and I still want to compete.  I still want to fight.  All these things helps to maintain yourself in a good shape and in a good condition to compete.   
 Q.  You've won many tournaments.  What would winning this one mean to you?  
MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Well, in my career, I've never won a major.  I've been close sometimes.  To win a major is always nice.  I miss a major    and if I win here, it's going to be more than welcome.   
 Q.  How many yards was the 5 iron at the?  
MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: 181 metres to the hole,200 yards.  A little breezy off the right, between 2  and 3 iron    so 5 iron.   
 Q.  With all the talk about red wine and cigars, you do work out a lot?  
MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Of course.  Every morning I'm here going to the physio truck and we have a lot of nice machinery to work out and I do it every morning before I start practice, of course.   
 Q.  Regularly?  
MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Yeah, every day.  Every day.  And then during the beginning of the week, working with even more weights with my physical trainer.  But in the tournament days, only in the morning    stretching, very important.   
 Q.  Is there one major you look back on that maybe you let slip?  
MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Well, I remember 2001, I've been very close 2001 in Lytham St. Annes, was very close there.  David Duval won there.  I think on No. 15, I go to the bunker and took two shots. Then also two rounds, leading, two, three rounds Muirfield, was close, also.   
Obviously a couple years ago in the Masters was very close also.  You know, U.S. Open, when Tiger won by 15 shots (laughter) I win the other competition.   
 Q.  What was the length of your putt at the last?  
MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: It's like two metres, six, seven feet, something like that, more or less.   
GORDON SIMPSON: Jock mentioned wine.  How will you enjoy tonight?   
MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Tonight, I'm going to do exactly the same things I do the previous night.  I go with my friends, we go to a nice diner with a nice bottle of Rioja and after that I'm going to have a bit, fat cigar with a nice malt whisky.   
GORDON SIMPSON: And maybe tomorrow a big whisky if you win, a large one.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT