THE SENIOR OPEN PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 29, 2018
Miguel Angel Jimenez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TOM CARLISLE: Miguel, congratulations, your second senior major champion this season.  Senior Open Champion here at St. Andrews.  How does it feel?
MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: It's amazing, having played so solid all the week, even with the club that is not working as good as it is supposed to be.  But we manage to win the tournament.  Playing very solid and especially on this course, to play yesterday and before yesterday, the back nine, good play on those holes.  But it's amazing to win here on the Home of Golf.  It's nice.  Seve won here in 1984 the British Open and it's nice to put my name alongside these here.
TOM CARLISLE: And how tough was it coming down that back stretch?
MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: It's tough.  It's tough.  Because one moment we're tied on the eighth hole, and then I made birdie on the ninth, and then I make another birdie on the 12th, with a three shots' lead there.
And then I got a chance for birdie, I make birdie on 14, 15, and then I make a bogey on 15 where I 3-putt from the side of the green and make another 3-putts on the 14th, the par 5 where I had two shots on the green and I missed a short putt there.  I'm feeling a little bit more tense, no.
But I'm hitting good shots and that is the main thing, and I keep breathing and focused, that was the main thing, for the 18th.
Q. Firstly, would it be fair to say that there will be the Rioja Jug, rather than the Claret Jug for the next 12 months?
MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: The Rioja Jug, yes, of course, it's amazing.  30 years now, and somebody would tell me now -- it never is too late (smiling).
Q. And also you touched on what it means to you to win where Seve won.  What you might not realise is that Bernhard Langer was also runner-up to Seve and he was waiting for you at the 18th green.  What did that mean to you?
MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: It was nice.  He finish in the group in front of me and he is the runner-up there and he's very nice played very nice.  He's a top player and top-class person, also, it's good.
Q. You've won more than 20 professional titles throughout your career.  How does this rate amongst your victories?
MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: All the titles are very important because it shows how you are on that moment.  But you win a major, obviously it's a major.  You win The Open, it's even more special.
TOM CARLISLE: And with your victory, you're exempt to The Open next year.  You must be looking forward to two weeks.
MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: That is the first time it will to go to Northern Ireland.  Vamos!
TOM CARLISLE: And you get to defend the Senior Open trophy at Royal Lytham.
MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: I love that golf course.  I played several times there and I played very well.  It's very nice.
Q. I was going to ask you about the fact that you've got a tee time now for The Open Championship, you didn't play last year, so what does it mean to be going back to play The Open?  Have you played golf at Royal Portrush?
MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: I played last year in the Irish Open, what is the name of the golf course we played last year, The Irish Open, close to Portrush?  Portstewart, yeah.  We see like the golf course that is going to be there in two years' time The Open there, and it's nice.
I'm looking forward to play that, The Open, again.  Last time I played was in Troon in 2016, and I'm missing last year and I'm missing this year, but next year, I will be back.  It will be nice.
Q. How do you rate your game overall now compared to when you were on The European Tour?  Do you notice it going from strength-to-strength still?
MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: I'm still playing well.  I'm still hitting the ball the same distance from the tee and I'm still enjoying myself on the golf course and that's what I want to do.
I still feel competitive.  I'm playing 90 per cent of the tournaments now on the champions, but I come to Hong Kong, going to Dubai, and I like to go to Crans Montana to play, also, and play in Italy, play in Austria.  I play several tournaments here because I still like to play.  I still feel to play with the youngs -- not that we are old; mature, no?
TOM CARLISLE: Thank you very much for your time.  Congratulations.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT