THE SENIOR OPEN PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 28, 2018
Miguel Angel Jimenez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You're going to go into the final round tomorrow with a two-shot lead.  How proud are you of today's round?
MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Today's rounds, conditions were difficult, brutal.  It's tough with this wind and gusting winds, and it's not easy.  As you see all the scores, at some point you get up to 9-, 10-under par and make bogeys, all the groups.  It's not easy.
It's a pity.  I gave myself 10-under par there, after making birdie on the 12th and the 14th, and then I made three pars and missed a birdie putt on 15, rushing myself.  But that's golf.  That's the game.  It's a little bit like a roller coaster, up and down, up and down, up and down on the golf course.
Q. Why do you think you've been so successful to this point in this championship?
MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Well, focus is probably the main thing.  The first two rounds I played very well, yesterday and before yesterday.  Today is not as good as these two days.  I make the par at the end, it's difficult, but this position, it's very important.
Q. Looking ahead to tomorrow, the conditions, could be very similar with the wind.  Are you confident that the lead could be safe?
MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Well, you never know.  You never know.  It's not easy.  But I'm going to do my best to focus and patient.  That's the main thing, especially with this difficult wind, keep patient, and let everything happen.
Q. What changes for you in your game when the winds are like this?
MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Rhythm, keep the rhythm and moving on.  That's the only way to play with the wind.
Q. Your third shot on 14, best shot of the day today?
MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Well, it's a nice shot just from the semi-rough there, a little bit too much club on the second shot.  I say, okay, only thing I need to do is put the ball in the air.  In the air is coming exactly how I want to, and rolls up, nice, perfect.
Q. You've had three Top-10s in the last four Senior Open majors.  You like links golf, do you?
MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Okay, I like the tournament, of course, and I like St. Andrews.  I hope to have not more Top-10s, and I would love to win.  You never that not more Top 10s.  I hope I can hold the trophy.  I would love to.  You never know what is going to happen.  Tomorrow is going to be a tough day.  It's going to be hard and there are some top players there, and all playing very well.  I think whoever has the most patience and most rhythm in these conditions will win.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT