HNA OPEN DE FRANCE
June 28, 2018
Thomas Pieters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 2-under par, in these conditions.  How satisfying is that?
THOMAS PIETERS: Very.  My ball-striking was very good today.  Quite happy with 2-under today.
Q. On 17, you pulled a shot out, a very special shot and your caddie, Adam, has taken a lot of credit for saying that he had to correct the yardage.  Is that true?
THOMAS PIETERS: Effectively true.  He pulled me off because it was three yards out and if he wouldn't, it wouldn't have gone in, all credit to him.
Q. On a day like today where it is tricky, how important is putting?
THOMAS PIETERS: It's very important, especially trying to get the wind, it's all over the place, getting a gust or anything like that -- it went very well.  We work very good as a team and today was a good day.
Q. You were a big part of the European side last time on The Ryder Cup.  Being back here on site where the next one is, does it add a little bit extra incentive for you this week?
THOMAS PIETERS: I just like this place.  It's where I played my first European Tour event.  I've had some decent results here and I love The French Open.
I feel good on the course, as well.
Q. A round of 69 for an opening round is good scoring today?
THOMAS PIETERS: Yeah, very.  The wind is definitely getting up this afternoon, so it's going to be a bit tougher I think.  I'm happier to get the easier conditions but still a good score.
Q. How do you think the leaderboard might stand at the end of the day?
THOMAS PIETERS: I think they won't get much further than 5-under unless -- it's out there, obviously, if you strike it well.  But yeah, some of the pins are quite tough, and especially with these winds, but some side winds are very tough to do some of these flags.
Q. This is a course you've been very comfortable and since The Italian Open, we're seeing more form coming back in.  How do you feel at the moment?
THOMAS PIETERS: I feel good.  I'm getting myself up there a couple times now and it feels good to feel that pressure again.  I look forward to have hopefully a good week here.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT