BELGIAN KNOCKOUT
May 18, 2018
Thomas Pieters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THOMAS PIETERS: I knew I had to finish around even or better, so I needed to putts to drop and luckily they did.  It was a bit easier without the gusty winds and swirling winds, so I was pin-high a lot more today than yesterday, and that's why I made some more putts.   
 Q.  And a very different tournament from your point of view, of course instrumental in bringing this here.  How has that been for you?  Have you enjoyed it?  
THOMAS PIETERS: I've definitely enjoyed it.  If I hit a good shot, and all the people are going nuts, it gives me chills just because it's -- they are my people and I know most of the people watching here.  It's definitely a dream come true here.   
 Q.  What's the vibe from the other players, because it's very different?  
THOMAS PIETERS: Yeah, I think everybody, it's been nothing but positives.  I haven't heard anything talk bad about this.  I think everybody looking forward to tomorrow and how it's going to be.   
 Q.  Having shot 2-over yesterday, what was the mind-set going out this morning?  
THOMAS PIETERS: Just being patient and just hoping those putts will drop, and a couple did, which was really nice because I haven't made any putts in a long time.  I was calm and yeah, a little bit better of a mindset today.  Obviously no wind, or less wind than yesterday helped us a lot.   
 Q.  Is that something you worked on?  
THOMAS PIETERS: Well, I was hitting well, so if it's just the putting -- if I'm hitting it off-line, then I've got to worry around this course.  But I didn't worry at all.  I hit it well again today and just made, you know, three, four more putts and that's the difference.   
 Q.  Seven birdies in the round, 67.  How important was a quick start?  
THOMAS PIETERS: It wasn't a quick start, was it.  Bogeyed my first hole, so then all of a sudden, you're 3-over and you have to make something happen.  To do my first putt, which is a pretty long one on the 12 -- nice to see it go in and kind of kept going from there.   
 Q.  Seven birdies bodes well in this format?  
THOMAS PIETERS: Yeah, bodes well for tomorrow.  If I can do seven every nine holes, I'll be fine.   
 Q.  What will you work on?  You might be a seed going in.  Does that matter, do you feel?  
THOMAS PIETERS: No.  I think everybody that makes the cut will have a chance to win and that's the exciting part about why we chose this format.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT