OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 25, 2018
Thomas Pieters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Picked up where you left off last week.  
THOMAS PIETERS: Yeah, I played very good tee-to-green.  I hit it very close all day, basically.  I've missed a couple drives and made good pars when I needed to.  Yeah, I let a couple putts slip by, but I mean, I'm happy with 7-under.   
 Q.  The guys were saying that your past performances around here haven't been that great.  What's the change this time?  Golf course is in great nick.  
THOMAS PIETERS: I don't know what are the changes.  I'm hitting it maybe a bit better and a bit closer to the pins.  I'm just relaxed out there on the course, having fun.   
 Q.  How much of an advantage is it to have the length that you possess on the par 5s to build a score?  
THOMAS PIETERS: Yeah, you need to play the par 5s well.  Like 18 is not that important to be long, but definitely helps on a couple of the other ones, yeah.   
 Q.  You didn't quite get it done last week, were you determined to shoot a very low round today?  
THOMAS PIETERS: You know, I thought hitting it well and I was really good tee-to-green today.  I didn't putt very well, but I'm very happy with the par putt I made on the last to keep the bogeys off the card.   
 Q.  You look very much at ease out there.  Has that been a difference?  
THOMAS PIETERS: Yeah, it has been.  I'm more relaxed and a bit happier on the course, which helps.  Not getting mad that much, because I used to get very mad, but it doesn't help.  Needed to change it around.   
 Q.  Did you feel that was a part of the game you needed to address sooner rather than later?  
THOMAS PIETERS: The winning doesn't need to change all that much.  It's just the mental part of the game, it's so important in golf and I've showed it the last week and a half now that it helps staying positive and being relaxed and calm out there.   
 Q.  How pleased are you with your start to the season?  
THOMAS PIETERS: Yeah, very pleased.  You know, obviously everybody works hard in the off-season, and I did, as well.  Just nice to come out here and on a perfect day like this to shoot 7-under.   
You still need to go out there and do it.  It's easier out there than let's say last Sunday in Abu Dhabi, but like I said, you still need to make the putts and hit the good shots.   
 Q.  Just touching on Abu Dhabi again, what can you take from not quite getting it done last week?  
THOMAS PIETERS: I was in contention, that's all I wanted to.  Same here Sunday, if I can get myself in contention the last nine holes, I'll be happy.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT