ABU DHABI HSBC CHAMPIONSHIP
January 20, 2018
Thomas Pieters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 67 out there today, give us your analysis on that round?
THOMAS PIETERS: I think I played pretty good today.  I missed a lot of putts today.  Made a couple birdies early, which settled me down.  The back nine, I played very good.  But yeah, I couldn't really make a putt.  Hit one really close on 16 and 17, 18, pretty disappointing.  I didn't hit many good shots there but it's still nice to make a par on the last after the mess I made.
Q. What happened at the last?
THOMAS PIETERS: Hit a terrible drive and then chunked it coming out and hit a terrible 3-iron, bad bunker shot and good putt; 5.
Q. You're tied for the lead.  Looking forward to tomorrow, slightly different conditions.  How are you going to approach the day?
THOMAS PIETERS: Go to the range and hit some low shots because it's going to be really windy tomorrow, and just looking forward to it.
Q. 67, 5-under.  Thoughts on how it went out there?
THOMAS PIETERS: Actually played pretty well.  Didn't really make any putts on the back nine.  Started out really nicely.  A lot of really good shots and then finished poorly.  That was a terrible last hole, managed to make a 5, which was nice.
Q. When the putts are sliding past, how important is it to keep your concentration and not get too frustrated when that happens?
THOMAS PIETERS: Yeah, when the conditions are perfect and you see everybody making a bunch of birdies and I was hitting it close, but I just wasn't making the putts.  My caddie just said, stay patient, and finally hit one really close on 16, couldn't miss that one.  Should have birdied 18, but I'm not going to complain.
Q. Your shot on 16, when you hit it, the way you reacted, thought it was going to go in the trees or something, but stuck right by the pin.
THOMAS PIETERS: There's no trees there.
Q. In the desert, then.
THOMAS PIETERS: Right in the sun, so you couldn't see it.  I knew I put a good swing on it, but I had no idea where it was going.
Q. On 18, I know you said you should be birdieing it, but how important was it to make par in the end?
THOMAS PIETERS: I hit a very good putt; I'll put it that way.
Q. Heading into tomorrow, great position, you must be excited.
THOMAS PIETERS: Yeah, first event out and that's where you want to be.  You want to have a bit of nerves and feel like you're in contention, and I look forward to tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT