ABU DHABI HSBC CHAMPIONSHIP
January 18, 2018
Thomas Pieters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. A round of 67 today, birdie, eagle finish.  What do you put that form down to today?  How important is it to get off to a fast start?
THOMAS PIETERS: Walking down the last, it was nice, having fun again.  I didn't have much fun on the back of last year, just some struggles off the course.  Yeah, today was nice.  I played well.  Didn't particularly putt well, but it was nice to make one on 17 and 18.  Just very pleased with 5-under.
Q. And in terms of how the golf course is playing, we expect maybe a little firmer, faster golf course.  It looked a little soft out there.  Where do you have to make your score at the moment around this place?
THOMAS PIETERS: If you just don't go in the rough and then just hit a lot of greens, the greens are so nice that you can make putts from anywhere.  But if you get in the rough, you can forget about going at some flags.  I definitely had some errors off the tee today, but the rest of it was quite nice.  Such a lovely place to start the year.
Q. Isn't quite the start of your year though, is it, because you were part of the EurAsia Cup team win last week for the European side.  How much did being part of the last Ryder Cup, how inspirational was it, and how much does that whet your appetite for this season to try to make The Ryder Cup side again?
THOMAS PIETERS: Yeah, it did.  You get the competitive juices again.  The rough is knocked off from last week, and especially coming down 18 with Ben last week, you feel a bit of nerves, which is good.  It's nice to feel that again, and then obviously it's good to start the year on a positive note.
I stayed very patient.  I wasn't making many putts today.  I was hitting some good shots into the greens and 17, straight up the hill, hit a good stroke on it.  Went in.  And 18, I hit three really good shots.  Very happy with an eagle on the last, of course.
Q. You've got good form around here you and came close when Rickie won.  Is it a course that suits your game?
THOMAS PIETERS: I would say so.  Just suits my eye.  Of course, the first event of the year, you want to start on a good note and we've all been practising a lot, everybody, but scored well today.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT