TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN
November 4, 2017
Thomas Pieters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. A lot going on on the leaderboard.  How much during the course of a round like that are you paying attention to what happens, or are you just focusing entirely on your own round?
THOMAS PIETERS: I was watching him all day, yeah, of course, trying to chase Nico down.  He got it to 16 really early, and starting at 6-under, you really have to make some birdies.
I got off to a really good start and didn't really finish very well, but still pretty happy with today.
Q. When you see what happens today, and even last week in China, where leads can go, big leads can go, very, very quickly does that change your mind-set going into Sunday?
THOMAS PIETERS: Yeah, I think so.  You always have a chance even if you're six, seven back on this course, because you can birdie your way in.
There's plenty of birdies out there.  You just have to make the putts.
Q. 5-under par through the opening nine holes.  Trying to chase down a big lead, that must have been just the start you were looking for?
THOMAS PIETERS: Yeah, exactly.  Birdies are out there.  You still have to hit it close and make putts.  I was rolling it nicely this morning.  Just a poor finish but still a good round.
I went for it on 15, the par 5, and came up half a yard too short, if not, make an easy four.  Took it on and don't regret it.  There's definitely scores out there if you hit the par 5s in two and make some birdies.
Q. Nice recovery on 18 with the shot into the green, as well, to par.  That must have felt even better than that, bearing in mind where your shot to the green ended up.
THOMAS PIETERS: Yeah, it was a terrible shot, wasn't it.  Really good up-and-down.  So, yeah, happy.
Q. How are you enjoying playing this golf course with it being so tree-lined and difficult and maybe thinking more off the tee?  Is it something you're able to enjoy?
THOMAS PIETERS: I hit a lot of 3-irons off the tee this week which I normally don't do.  It's been paying off very nicely.  I've scored poorly the last month, so it's nice to be up there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT