HNA OPEN DE FRANCE
July 1, 2017
Thomas Pieters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  1-over for the front nine having hit the ball in the water, you break your driver -- that's not the image you want to portray, is it?  
THOMAS PIETERS: Of course not.  I wasn't trying to break my driver at all.  Me and my caddie, we kind of laughed because I just put it in my bag and I think there's maybe a soft spot in the shaft or something.  I didn't put it in with a lot of force and it broke.  I mean, it's my own fault and to have to play the back nine on this golf course without a driver, it's not easy.   
I definitely took some penalty for that.  Didn't hit a lot of fairways and left myself long second shots, which wasn't fun.  But trying to fix that for tomorrow.   
 Q.  Obviously there was some frustration in your front nine, you weren't going the way you wanted.  How do you recover from that and get your mind-set right to shoot 32 on the back?  
THOMAS PIETERS: My caddie and I were just saying, like just keep calm.  You have a couple wedges on 10, 13, as well.  But I wasn't hitting any fairways.  I was swinging it very badly.  Thank God I putt well.  I just need to go to the range and work on some stuff.   
 Q.  You said yesterday there would not be a phone call to Pete Cowen.  Might there be one today?  
THOMAS PIETERS: I think there's going to be one today, yeah.   
 Q.  You're very much in the thick of this championship, despite not feeling you're playing at your best.  
THOMAS PIETERS: Yeah, still where I want to be.  Can't really believe that I'm one off the lead with such poor play.  Hopefully going to fix that for tomorrow and go low tomorrow, because the leaderboard is very bunched, and somebody at 4-under could still win it.   
 Q.  That was very much a case of two nines today for you.  
THOMAS PIETERS: Yeah, front nine I played okay.  Didn't get anything out of it.  Four fairways today, just so poor, on this golf course, you just can't do that.  I don't know how I shot 69.  I couldn't tell you.  But we're at 7-under and one off the lead as it stands.  So very much looking forward to it tomorrow.   
 Q.  Is this the kind of golf course that sometimes you don't necessarily get rewarded for good play?  
THOMAS PIETERS: No, I wouldn't say that.  You definitely get penalised for missing the fairway and that's what I had today.  I had a lot of thick lies in the rough and luckily made pars where I needed to make, and even like on 17, hit a really good shot out of the rough.   
But again, that's kind of lucky that it comes out really nicely and goes on the green.  But just need to hit more fairways tomorrow.   
 Q.  You had a problem obviously with the driver on 9 but it didn't seem to affect you when you came to play the back nine?  
THOMAS PIETERS: It did affect me, trust me.  I was hitting a lot of long shots into the green.  Even with irons I was missing fairways, so I think I need to go to the range and fix some tough.   
 Q.  I think even the players out on course now are struggling.  Paul Waring has just hit the water again.  Even if you have the lead going into the final stretch, still very difficult to maintain that?  
THOMAS PIETERS: Oh, of course, I was on 16, where I hit a fairway, and then I was looking at 18 and not looking forward to playing that hole.  So made a good par there.  Again, my wedges and short game has been very sharp this week.  But off the tee, not so good.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT