HNA OPEN DE FRANCE
June 30, 2017
Thomas Pieters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. A level par round today.  Was it fair to say you had to scramble a little harder today?
THOMAS PIETERS: Yeah, I only hit nine fairways.  My swing was a bit off all day.  I was happy to be 3-under par after I think ten or 11 holes with not hitting it that well.  I missed three fairways in really bad spots.  I had horrific lies and could advance it maybe 50 yards combined with those three.  I took my bogeys and the double on five or six.  In the end, 71, with bad golf, I'll take it.
Q. Looking at some of the other guys around you, they have doubles around the card, and it is tough to keep them off the card on course, isn't it.
THOMAS PIETERS: Yeah, if you don't hit the fairway, you're looking at bogey or maybe worse.  If you find the fairways, I can score here, but sometimes finding them -- there's a lot of crosswinds on this course.  It's tough to commit to the shot sometimes.
Q. How did the weather change the dynamic today?  It rained heavily at one point and the wind picked up and gave you plenty to think about.
THOMAS PIETERS: Like you say, it gives you plenty to think about, especially teeing off in the rain is never fun.  If it starts raining after a couple holes, that's okay; but just the mind-set starting off when it's pouring down.  But I got off to a good start and I don't mind playing in the rain.  As long as we don't get super wet, I was fine.
Q. In good shape going into the weekend.
THOMAS PIETERS: Yeah, I'm right there.  That's where I want to be.  Hopefully have a good weekend.
Q. Can you describe your round for us, please?
THOMAS PIETERS: Yeah, I didn't hit it well off the first tee.  Just had a bad feeling on the range.  Didn't really hit a lot of good shots.  So to have a 71, I'll take it, but definitely have some work to do this afternoon.
I missed some fairways.  I missed three fairways.  Didn't miss them very far off the fairway.  Just three horrific lies and just have to chip out sideways basically.
Q. That course plays really difficult, and the only good point about it, you must be pleased with your decision at the moment.  You're not too far off the lead.
THOMAS PIETERS: Exactly.  I'm right there.  Looks like the weather is going to get maybe a bit worse this afternoon.  So we'll see, but I've been putting really well these last two days, so that's a very positive thing I've taken out of these last two rounds.
Q. What's your verdict?
THOMAS PIETERS: I've putted well today.  That's the only positive out of today.  Scrambled well some holes, but my putting has definitely been very good the last two days, even on the last, to finish with a par after hitting in the water.  Fairly pleased but I've got some work to do this afternoon.
Q. Is it evidence of just how difficult this golf course is; if you're slightly off your game, it really catches you?
THOMAS PIETERS: Especially off the tee.  I didn't hit it well off the tee today and it cost me four or five shots.  So it's definitely a second-shot golf course.  If you can just place it in the fairway; you don't need to be very long.  But if you just hit from the short grass, it's a big advantage.  Especially the rough being wet, it's so thick.  I had some full swings, and those went like 15 yards.  It's tough.
Q. You say you're off to the range to do some work.  Is it a phone call to the coach, or do you know what it is, the solution?
THOMAS PIETERS: No phone call to Pete Cowen.  I know what I have to do.  Just have to do it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT