BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 25, 2017
Thomas Pieters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Thomas, a bogey to finish but still a very nice atmosphere of 68.  How do you feel about that?
THOMAS PIETERS: Plenty of positives.  I think I had 22 putts, so that's always good.  Drove it well.  Just hit some very average to bad iron shots.  Going to work on that this afternoon.
Q. We know the course has been really bouncy, and you've seen it the other way.  You missed the green -- the lower level of the greens, these firm surfaces, how much of a challenge is it with the short game to try to get it close?
THOMAS PIETERS: Yeah, for sure.  A shot like that, you need to get it up on the edge and let it run.  You need to hit it perfect to be able to spin it.  I hit a pretty poor bunker shot, made a good putt.
Q. And you said a little bit about the iron play wasn't quite where you wanted it but there were some good signs out there, as well, as you were coming down the stretch.  One of the highlights, the shot on 14.  Again, does it feel like you have to relearn this golf course because of the big changes on the greens?
THOMAS PIETERS: That one, the right side of the green is much easier now I think.  That slope is much more subtle.  These ones bring the ball in a little bit.  I had a really good number for a 7-iron and hit a good shot.
Q. We were keen to see how the stunning greens have held up throughout the day.  How were they for the afternoon guys?
THOMAS PIETERS: No spike marks, nothing.  It was wonderful to putt on.
Q. Obviously disappointing to finish with a bogey, but was there a little bit of a slip when the ball went into the water, rather than a bad shot.
THOMAS PIETERS: Yeah, I don't like to make excuses but it kind of slipped in my hands and came out low and never got there.  Happens with these hot days and got to make sure you've got a towel and all that stuff.
Q. Overall you must be pleased with the round as a whole?
THOMAS PIETERS: Yeah, for sure, 22 putts and I drove it pretty well off the tee.  A bad one on 17, but that's always been -- I don't really like that hole.  It's been a tough tee shot for me over the years.  All in all, you have some good stuff.  Maybe some poor iron play sometimes but we can fix that easily.
Q. Your last stroke-play event was the Masters.  How much confidence have you taken from that coming into this event this week?
THOMAS PIETERS: Yeah, a lot, knowing I can be in contention and have a chance to win at a major; and then you come back to Europe where you feel comfortable, it's definitely good for the confidence.
Q. And how have you found the greens?  Obviously all been relayed since last year.  Is it a question of relearning the golf course over the last few days?
THOMAS PIETERS: Yeah, I quite like it.  It takes throwing darts out of the equation and you really have to think that first, second round, if it's going to skip, if it's going to spin.  I prefer these greens.  They are wonderful to putt on, even in the afternoon, I didn't really see any spike marks.  So they did a great job.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT