MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 6, 2017
Thomas Pieters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Did you feel like you got a lot out of your round today?  
THOMAS PIETERS: At the start, yeah. At the end, nothing. Didn't really have any bad shots and kind of got penalized. So, it hurts, but after all, not a bad round.   
   
 Q. The conditions get a lot more difficult in just gauging distance, especially when you got down to 11, 12, that area?  
THOMAS PIETERS: Yeah, for sure. The last eight, nine holes were‑‑ right now the wind's picking up and it's not really consistent. If you catch the wrong gust at the wrong time, then you look stupid. Like I did on 12. But that's just Augusta, I guess.   
   
 Q. You have to feel good about the way you played though, especially THE first 9, 10 holes.   
THOMAS PIETERS: Yeah, for sure. I didn't miss a shot the first 10 holes. And I feel like I didn't really miss any today. It might look like it on the back nine, but I feel like I really didn't. I'm very happy with the way I'm striking the ball.   
I missed a couple of putts, but everybody's going to miss a couple.  
   
 Q. What was your club on No. 12?  
THOMAS PIETERS: I hit an 8‑iron and I had plenty. And Francesco hit 30 seconds later and his seemed to be going downward, so you can't do anything about it.   
   
 Q. Toughest shot you hit today?  
THOMAS PIETERS: Toughest shot? On 11, probably the second shot. Wind's hard off the right and you know if you hit it straight it's in the water, so you have to curve it. That was probably my worst shot of the day. Still gave myself a good chance to get up‑and‑down, didn't, but...  
   
 Q. Sometimes on TV that 12th hole looks so benign, but when you're up there and you add the wind, are you thinking like, okay, I know how Jordan Spieth quadruple bogeyed that hole?  
THOMAS PIETERS: No, you're not thinking about that. It's actually a short hole, so you're trying to make birdie. It's only an 8‑iron. But then you can't do anything about wind gusts, so...   
   
 Q. A lot of players talked about the third shot on 15 being almost impossible to gauge. What did you have there for your third?  
THOMAS PIETERS: Again, hit a pretty decent shot, just went over. And then hit a good chip shot and kind of ‑‑ I don't know if you saw it‑‑ but got a really hard bounce to the left and had a 10‑footer. So I feel like it's unfortunate, but...  
   
 Q. How do American fans react to you now post‑Ryder Cup?  
THOMAS PIETERS: I feel like you guys fairly like me, so. No, I get a lot of support, yeah.   
   
 Q. Do you think experience from today will help you at all tomorrow or is it just simply wind gusts that you're battling tomorrow again?  
THOMAS PIETERS: Exactly. I mean, it's nothing else but that. I know I'm hitting it well, I just have to stay really, really patient. And I think did I a good job with that. Maybe on the last I could have had one better, but yeah, I'm very pleased, yeah.  
   
 Q. Do you get support because of the Illinois connection?  
THOMAS PIETERS: Yeah, some I L L.   
   
 Q. Do you then do I N I?  
THOMAS PIETERS: No, I have no time for that.   
   
 Q. What is the most surprising outcome, outside of the tee shot at 12, that you had today?  
THOMAS PIETERS: Didn't think my tee shot on 18 was that bad, just, if it keeps turning, it's in the fairway. And then, I don't know, yeah, 15 played‑‑ that third shot is not fun. Not at all.  
   
 Q. What did the Ryder Cup experience do for your game, your confidence?  
THOMAS PIETERS: It helped it, for sure. But this is different. It's a Major. The Ryder Cup, if you lose it, you lose it, you move on. Everybody's happy on Sunday night, either if you lose it or you win. This is different.   
   
 Q. Any balls moving on the green today?  
THOMAS PIETERS: Yeah, definitely.   
   
 Q. What was difficulty of the wind, the fact that it kept gusting rather than it was in one direction?  
THOMAS PIETERS: Yeah, and you can't do anything about it. That's the annoying thing about it. So you have to, sometimes you have to back off five times. And I know that that might give you a penalty shot or a warning or something, but if that's what it takes, then that's what you got to do.  
   
 Q. Where did you have to back off as many times as that?  
THOMAS PIETERS: No, I didn't, but I'm saying like I might have to. I maybe did it once or twice. I kind of just go for it and sometimes maybe I should back off a couple times more.  
   
 Q. What was the most valuable Mike Small, the Illinois coach, taught you?  
THOMAS PIETERS: He taught me how to play golf. I was more of a technical player before I got to college and he taught me how to shoot a 64.   
   
 Q. Can you teach me how to do that?  
THOMAS PIETERS: Maybe he can.   
   
 Q. Monday and Wednesday you didn't have that much time to practice like you would normally here. But would it have even helped, given that you weren't dealing with the gusts you had today?  
THOMAS PIETERS: No, I normally get into tournaments on Tuesday afternoon or night, so I don't need a lot of time.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT