WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 22, 2017
Thomas Pieters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Start with some comments.  You were out in the wind today, nice to get off to a good start?  
THOMAS PIETERS: Yeah, the front nine was really good.  The back nine we didn't play very well.  We gave each other some holes.  He gave me a couple more than I gave him, so it worked out for me.  But I've got to work on putting for tomorrow.   
 Q.  How important is it to get a win that first day?  
THOMAS PIETERS: Yeah, it was just weird, because you don't want to get in a position where you need to hope for a tie from the other match.  So I think you need to win all three.  And getting off to a good start is nice.  And I just need to win my next two.   
 Q.  Even though the golf wasn't great, was it good to get on a roll there in the middle of the front nine?  
THOMAS PIETERS: Yeah, it's nice to have a two or three shot -- I missed a one or two footer on 13.  And that just hurts the confidence.  You're back to 2-up and four or five to play, anything can happen.  And he gave me a hole, so it was back and forth on the back nine giving holes.   
 Q.  On 7 you hit that shot to about a foot and then he makes that 30, 35-footer, how much do you feel that?  
THOMAS PIETERS: I don't know.  I told my caddie he was going to make that, I had a feeling.  That just happens sometimes in match play.  I don't know, I just tried to make as many birdies as I can.  It's quite simple in match play.   
 Q.  You had momentum coming into match play with the Ryder Cup?  
THOMAS PIETERS: Yeah, Ryder Cup was good, obviously.  And I've always loved match play.  I was good at match play in college.  I can't remember losing a lot of matches.  I don't know, you get on that tee and you need to beat that one guy.  Even if you have a bad day and he has a worse day than you, so be it.  You don't need to shoot 7- or 8-under each time, you just need to shoot one better.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT