SAUDI INTERNATIONAL POWERED BY SBIA
February 2, 2020
Thomas Pieters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 5-under 65 to finish second best of the day. How would you assess that?
THOMAS PIETERS: I played very well. Left some shots out there. I had some really good iron shots and gave myself plenty of chance, and obviously bummed to miss on 18. Kind of misread it. Would have been nice to finish the day with a an eagle but overall pretty happy with my week. After being 3-over after three holes on Thursday, it was a about fight back.
Q. 3-under through seven and the leaders were sort of faltering. What was going through your mind then?
THOMAS PIETERS: Not much. I didn't see the scoreboard until the back nine.
I love playing with Shane, he's a lot of fun and he kind of inspires me to see shots and to feel shots. He's a lovely player, and it was a joy today.
Q. Do you feel you play better with a friend of yours on Tour?
THOMAS PIETERS: Yeah, of course, it's always more relaxing. Like I said, playing with Shane is fun because he's a real artist. It's fun watching him and inspires you when you both make a couple birdies, so that's fun.
Q. Did you realise your situation on 18 tee?
THOMAS PIETERS: Yeah, I know I can fly the bunker just about on 18 and leaves you short club, so only thing I can do is pull is and then it kind of goes in the water. So I hit a good drive. It was a tough second shot, as well. You need to land it just in that slope, and just did, and bummed to miss the putt.
Q. Do you feel if you had posted 10, you might have a chance?
THOMAS PIETERS: You never know, 16, 15, really tough holes. But then obviously you finish with two, not easy I'm going to say, but two birdie opportunities if you hit a good drive. We'll see. Sit in the clubhouse and wait.
Q. What can you take from this week going forward?
THOMAS PIETERS: Lots of positives. Switched ball and it's been fantastic, the consistency in the wind. It's lovely to see the ball react the way I expect it and the way I want it to.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT