THE RYDER CUP
October 2, 2016
Thomas Pieters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  New record for a Ryder Cup rookie, four points out of five.  If the last couple of days were fun, how special was that out there?  
THOMAS PIETERS: It's different, when you're out there on your own, and don't really have anybody to high five and all that stuff and have Rory to pick you up when you're down.  But I thought I did pretty well after being 2-down after two and fought my way back.  Made plenty of birdies and that's what you need in match play.   
 Q.  What pride did you feel heading out No. 3 for Europe after the week you've had?  
THOMAS PIETERS: Just the belief that Darren believes in me and that gives me a lot of confidence, as well.   
 Q.  Feeding off the crowd's energy this week, how much have you enjoyed that?  
THOMAS PIETERS: I've loved it.  It's been unbelievable.  Obviously we've had a couple of issues with some of the guys but for me it's been -- nobody knows me, so it's been pretty good.   
I've done my part and all I can do, and I just want to get out there and support the guys.  It was nice that Darren put me out there early and he believes in me, and that gives me confidence that I need to put a point up on the board early and that's what I've done.   
 Q.  A winner in the singles on your Ryder Cup debut, and after being 2-down after two holes, as well, you had to dig deep, didn't you.  
THOMAS PIETERS: Yeah, I'm proud of the way I came back.  I played some really good golf.  J.B. was making a lot of putts on me but after that played some really good golf.   
 Q.  Have you learned things about yourself today, do you think?  
THOMAS PIETERS: Yeah, I can pull off the shots what I need to.  That gives me a lot of confidence going forward.   
 Q.  This record, you're the first man to win four points for Europe on their Ryder Cup debut.  That must make you very proud.  
THOMAS PIETERS: Yes, indeed.  Obviously Rory was a big part in that.  So it's a team effort, isn't it.   
 Q.  But to back up the faith that the captain had in you to pick you.  
THOMAS PIETERS: Yeah, indeed.  Darren and I talked about it this morning and he just said, please go out and win your point.  Luckily I did.   
 Q.  That must have given you a real taste, these three days for The Ryder Cup, yeah?  
THOMAS PIETERS: Yes, it did.  I'm glad I had the full experience of playing five games.  Hopefully I can take that experience into the next Ryder Cup.   
I'm exhausted right now.  It's been really long days, getting up at 4:00 A.M. and dealing with these crowds is not easy.  It takes a lot out of you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT