THE RYDER CUP
October 1, 2016
Rory McIlroy
Thomas Pieters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How inspired was his performance?  
RORY McILROY: It was incredible.  I think just like yesterday in the four-ball, we dovetailed really well all day.  We both got off to a really good start.  I sort of kept it going around the turn and then sort of disappeared for the last few holes and Thomas took over.  It was a fantastic match.  It was back and forth for awhile there, especially on the back nine, but this guy showed his class at the end and got us over the line.   
 Q.  Certainly you're a cool customer; how are you feeling internally?  
THOMAS PIETERS: I feel fine (laughter).   
 Q.  Can you quite believe the week that you are having, Thomas?  
THOMAS PIETERS: Yeah, I mean, I'm very happy I'm making a lot of putts, which obviously that's what's going to win you points and going to win matches.  Hopefully I can continue that tomorrow.  It's pretty cool to have three points with Rory.  I think we'll have this team for a while longer.   
RORY McILROY: You might see this in Paris.   
 Q.  A quick word about the crowd?  
RORY McILROY: Yeah.   
 Q.  The more they heckled, the better you play, right?  
RORY McILROY: That's the plan, yeah, just try to get them fired up and that gets us fired up.  Yeah, you've got to keep your concentration out there.  It's tough at times, but just glad we got it done today.   
 Q.  I know you're going to be sorry to be asked about this again but could you tell me a little bit about the altercation on the seventh?  
RORY McILROY: Oh, yeah, someone just said a few derogatory things I thought was out of line.  Tried to get him removed.  I'm not sure if he was removed or not.  Look, these things happen.  It's golf at the end of the day.  You try to keep the utmost respect for who you're playing and for who you're supporting.  You know, that particular guy, this is obviously in the very, very small minority, just took it a bit too far.   
 Q.  Obviously you can't practice for these situations, and you have to maintain your focus and concentration, so if you were marking your own report card today, what would you give yourself out of ten for your focus in?  
RORY McILROY: It was up there I guess.  I feel like I need to take a couple Advil, I have a sore head listening to all those the last day, day and a half.  I feel like I've been able to focus pretty well and I've played some of my best golf and the last three matches we've played, it's been three points on the board.  I'd give myself a pretty high mark for that.   
 Q.  Feeling good about that?  
RORY McILROY: Yeah, can't wait.  Can't wait to get out there in singles.  I'm very proud of my singles record in Ryder Cup and I want to continue that.   
 Q.  There was some great scoring, almost some fatigue towards the end, hanging on I think?  
RORY McILROY: I was.  I'm sure you weren't the only one that noticed that.  I got a little tired at the end but thankfully that's what team golf is all about.  My partner came in to back me up and hit some great shots down the stretch when I didn't.  Just luckily we hung on and got the win.   
 Q.  A word on Thomas again?  
RORY McILROY: I could talk about him all day.  He's been absolutely fantastic.  I'm glad that his first Ryder Cup experience for the most part has been beside me and we've been able to get three points out of three playing together.   
 Q.  The atmosphere, it's lively, there were some things that were said, how have you found it?  
RORY McILROY: It's been tough but you have to keep your focus and concentration at all times and not let it affect you.  But at the same time, when you play a good shot or you win a hole or you hole a putt, you want to let them know that.  So as much as they are giving to us, we are trying to give it straight back at them.   
 Q.  How close do you think Europe would need to be, would like to be?  
RORY McILROY: Anything within four points I guess.  It's happened before.  But no, I mean obviously it's hopefully going to be a bit tighter than that, but if we can keep it within a point or a point or a half, I think would be in a good position.   
 Q.  Would you expect to be the first man out tomorrow?  
RORY McILROY: That's up to Darren.  I'll play wherever he wants me to play.  I really am not sure at this point.  But if he wants me to go out and lead the team, I'm more than happy to do that.   
 Q.  Playing with Thomas Pieters, what has he shown you the last couple of days here at The Ryder Cup?  
RORY McILROY: That he's ready.  He's ready to play on the biggest stages, and some of his golf out there over the last couple of days has been extraordinary.  He's really taken to this so well, and he's done a lot better in his first Ryder Cup than I did.  So it bodes well for the future.  But just great to play alongside him and get three points with him and obviously help the team.   
 Q.  What have you felt today playing alongside one of the world's greatest players, not only today but yesterday, as well, has that given you the confidence that you need here?  
THOMAS PIETERS: He just has my back.  Any time I have a loose shot or I'm out of position, Rory just puts himself in position and gives himself a chance for birdie.  He tends to make those all the time, so it's quite easy playing with him.   
 Q.  I do want to ask you about the crowd.  They are having some fun with you and you are having a little fun back and forth; has it been fun or have there been boundaries stepped on?  
RORY McILROY: I think there's been some boundaries over stepped on, not on my side, anyway, I don't think.  Again, it's been a tough crowd.  Look, I'm not -- you just need to concentrate.  I let it get to me a couple of times out there which I probably shouldn't have, but it's tough.  It's long days.  It's 4:30 wake-up calls.  You're playing a lot of golf.  Every now and again, you're going to let it get to you, especially when emotions are running so high.  Hopefully get a good night's sleep, take a couple Advil for this headache I have after listening to the loudness over the last few days and get ready for tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT