MADE IN DENMARK
August 28, 2016
Thomas Pieters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








STEVE TODD: Well, Made in Denmark Champion for 2016.  Long day out there with the rain delays, but what a finish there at the end.  Nearly a hole-in-one on 16, and then that run to win the tournament.  Just give us your thoughts and your emotions as you sit here now.
THOMAS PIETERS: Yeah, I'm quite tired to be honest.  It's been a really long day.  I got up at about 6 o'clock or 5.30 or something -- what time is it now?  Yeah, long day.
Obviously really, really happy with this win and just the way I won it.  I haven't had the chance to have that one-shot lead, because last year I had a two-shot lead and I kind of closed it out before I got to 18.
Today I had the pressure of needing to make a birdie, and it's wonderful to be in that position because then you'll find out if all the practice pays off, and it did.  So yeah, very, very happy.
STEVE TODD: Obviously whenever you win, it's a very pleasing thing and it shows how much the practice comes into play.  But to do it under the sort of microscope of this week, and starting the week with The Ryder Cup captain at your side, give us your thoughts on how you handled all that pressure, as well.
THOMAS PIETERS: I think I'm two for two when I played with him.  I played with him at KLM when I won and played with him two days here.
To be honest, I've had enough of it now, all the talk about the Ryder Cup.  So we'll just find out tomorrow.  He's got plenty of good players to pick from, so if he doesn't pick me, then so be it, and I'll work my butt off to get there in the next one.  But I've done all I can now and I'm just really pleased with this win to be honest.
STEVE TODD: And what is it about this time of year, as well, two victories around this time last year and another one now.  Seems like you peak at this time of year.
THOMAS PIETERS: I guess so, I don't know.  I guess I like August (laughs).
Q. Can you tell me what were your emotions when you walked around 18 green to look for Joakim's ball?
THOMAS PIETERS: I mean, obviously you hate seeing that, Joakim pulled his driver way left.  The moment the ball comes off the clubface, you know it's going left; it's over.
I've been there, and it hurts obviously.  It's going to take a couple days for him to recover.  But he's a great player.  He played unbelievable coming down the stretch.  How many shots he hit inside ten feet today was ridiculous.
He'll get stronger from that, and yeah, it was a little bit of a wait, but to be honest, I was pretty focused on that downhill at the last.
Q. Were you aware of Thomas Detry's score in the Bridgestone Challenge?
THOMAS PIETERS: Yeah, I think this must be history.  First Challenge Tour and European Tour winner from Belgium.  We have two guys on The European Tour and one or two on The Challenge Tour.  He's one of my best friends, as well.  So for him to win today by, what, 12 shots, mind-blowing, isn't it.  I only one by one, so -- but that's okay.
STEVE TODD: Were you in touch during the tournament?
THOMAS PIETERS: Well, no, I wasn't texting him.
STEVE TODD: But as in this week.
THOMAS PIETERS: Oh, yeah, yeah, of course, I texted him this morning, I said, "Let's make it double."
I called our coach in the States Friday night, just because I was having some trouble with the attention for The Ryder Cup.  It hadn't gotten to me, but yesterday and the day before it kind of got to me, because it was so much.  Everybody was talking about it, and I just didn't really have a way to get out of there.
Q. Can you talk about the spectators and the atmosphere, especially compared to some of the other tournaments?
THOMAS PIETERS: Friday was pretty special with Darren when they held up all the blue signs.  I got goosebumps walking on the green.  I don't know how many people are there, 4,000 people, cheering for you, it's still a weird thing to get in my head that people cheer for me because I hit a white ball.
Yeah, and today, for all the people that actually stay here after four hours, shows their commitment to watching golf and to supporting the tournament.
Q. Coming back next year?
THOMAS PIETERS: I'd love to, yeah, of course.  I always like defending a tournament.  I did all right last week, but yeah, I was a little unsatisfied last week.  Very satisfied this week.
STEVE TODD: Congratulations again, Thomas.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT