OLYMPIC GAMES RIO 2016: GOLF
August 12, 2016
Thomas Pieters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Halfway into the tournament, you must be incredibly impressed with the position you're in, in the last group, playing into the weekend?
THOMAS PIETERS: Yeah, I'm very happy. What's not to be happy about. I played well. I started out really well. I think that was the key to my rounds in the worst of the conditions. I knew coming to the finish, you know there's some birdie opportunities, and to take all three, basically, was a good finish. 

Q. What distance did you birdie the last three? 
THOMAS PIETERS: On 17, I made a nice 12‑footer I think. And then 16 and 18 were close.

Q. Can you see that little glitter of gold or silver or bronze ahead?
THOMAS PIETERS: If you don't dream about it, you're never going to achieve it I think. I am thinking about it, yeah, but you kind of put that beside you when you're playing and try to shoot the lowest you can. 

Q. You're going to be in the final group tomorrow with Marcus and Stenson. Obviously Henrik just won The Open Championship?
THOMAS PIETERS: Well, you know he's going to shoot a good score. He's a top‑class player. He's No.2 in the world. You've got to play your own game. You know he's going to make a lot of birdies, but just play your own game, and I know I'm going to make some birdies on the weekend, so looking forward to it.

Q. Nerves haven't seemed to be an issue with you. Do you think you'll be nervous this weekend? 
THOMAS PIETERS: Well, it's just a relaxed atmosphere, isn't it. There's not too many players on the course. I'm having fun with my caddie. It was fun playing with Kiradech, as well. He's a super nice guy. It will be very relaxed with Marcus, tomorrow, as well, because we're good friends.

Q. Have you seen any Belgian sport?
THOMAS PIETERS: Yeah, I'm going to watch the hockey after this. 

Q. Did you expect to play well this week? Were you feeling good about your game?
THOMAS PIETERS: The course suits me. It's very wide, which obviously always suits me. But I'm hitting it good. Good iron shots, and I'm rolling the putter very well. So it's nice to see some putts go in from middle distance.

Q. How about the experience, different here than on the Tour?
THOMAS PIETERS: Of course it's different. It's the Olympics. Well, just the whole thing. Going to bed late because you're watching other sports. You're having dinner with a thousand of the best athletes in the world; that's not every week, I would say. Yeah, that's what's special about it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT