WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 5, 2015
Thomas Pieters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What was the key to your round today?  
THOMAS PIETERS: Actually my game was pretty poor today.  My putting was really good and my short game.  Only bogey I made was from 40 yards out on was it 6 maybe, 5.  But yeah, I scrambled it really good and I scored really good today.   
 Q.  It's a weird game, this, isn't it.  Presumably you're smiling with a 67?  
THOMAS PIETERS: Yeah, of course.  I'm pretty happy with 5-under today.  But I made some good putts and kept my round going, made some good par saves.  I played good coming in.   
 Q.  We spoke in the build-up about it being a first time here and expectations.  So is it meeting those expectations?  
THOMAS PIETERS: Well, it was quite unstressful this morning.  Nobody's out there watching.  It was pretty peaceful.  Playing with James was really nice.  He played well, too.  Yes, very happy.   
 Q.  Presumably a little bit damp after all that rain from yesterday?  
THOMAS PIETERS: Yeah, the course played pretty soft, especially wedges, you could just throw them in there like darts.  The greens were rolling really nice, which is easy to make putts I guess, and so there will definitely be some low scores.   
 Q.  Is it playing longer and therefore, does that suit you?  
THOMAS PIETERS: They moved up a couple tees, so I think that makes up for it being so soft.  But some holes, 9 plays very tough.  It's a really tough hole.  But parred it, so really happy.   
 Q.  What's your experience of China as a whole?  Presumably you're just hotel and golf course but have you tasted anything else?  
THOMAS PIETERS: Yeah, on the weekend we're going to Shanghai.  Take Monday off in Shanghai.  I've been there before earlier this year.  It's a really lovely city.  Yeah, this week is a little boring, golf -- but the golf courses are in China are unbelievable.  They are in great shape and the greens are always really pure.  Always happy to come here.   
 Q.  After a few misgivings today, does that mean out doing more work or rest?  
THOMAS PIETERS: Yeah, there's going to be some work done on the range this afternoon.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT