PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 15, 2015
Thomas Pieters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Did you step into this week thinking this is a course that should suit me, I should play well?
THOMAS PIETERS: I played here a couple times as an amateur and I played pretty well.
Last year was a weird tournament with being rained out and having to wait so much.  I feel comfortable off the tee and hit it close a couple times, so good score.
Q. You mentioned last year being rained out, the forecast for the weekend isn't good.  Was it imperative to get the good start?
THOMAS PIETERS: I definitely told my caddie, Adam, I wanted to get off to a fast start.  It's never easy.  You've got to still stay patient and drop some putts and fast start.
Q. Presumably, when those putts are dropping, you are feeling pretty good about yourself?
THOMAS PIETERS: I think when my short game, my putting is working well that sort of confidence comes.
Q. Your arm has a big pink tape on it.  What's the problem?
THOMAS PIETERS: I just last week had a lot of pain in my thumb and it's come back a couple of times.  It feels pretty good right now with the tape on it.  Still need some work on it and definitely need a week rest next week.
Q. How did it happen?  How did the pain develop?
THOMAS PIETERS: Physio says it comes from the shoulder, I don't know.
Q. The tape helps?
THOMAS PIETERS: The tape helps, takes the pressure off it.  I can swing freely.
Q. Very well played.  I guess in particular, very happy with the way you're putts have behaved on day one?
THOMAS PIETERS: Yeah, very happy.  Last couple of weeks have been pretty off, so happy that's back.  I feel comfortable.  When my putting is going well, I have confidence and the rest of the game is there.
Q. You mentioned confidence.  This has been an incredible run for you, two wins in quick succession.  What is your approach for the rest of the season?
THOMAS PIETERS: I came here to win.  Obviously, it would be nice to get my third one.  Just still got to stay patient, stay in the present.  Just want to get a good end of the season, get myself right up there.
Q. Everything you achieved this summer, what gives you the most satisfaction about your results and those victories?
THOMAS PIETERS: Just to show that I can win.  I would like to be more consistent, for sure.  But I've had a couple rough ones there is the summer.  My game is good and I feel like I can compete every week, which is very satisfying.
Q. How much have you enjoyed the challenge of this beautiful Victoria course and the beautiful location?
THOMAS PIETERS: It's a great course.  It suits me.  You still have to hit it really straight off the tee because the rough is up and it's penal, that's for sure.  I hit it very well off the tee and I can give myself a lot of wedges in.  So it's great.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT