ABU DHABI HSBC GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 16, 2015
Thomas Pieters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How good was the day?   
THOMAS PIETERS:   Solid day.   Started off well.   Just struggled coming in a little bit.   Rolled it well with my putter, so that was nice.  
   
 Q.   After that impressive first round, you didn't give much away yesterday.   You said that you had set yourself some goals for the season but you weren't sharing them.   Where are you with your mind games at the moment?   
THOMAS PIETERS:   I'm just trying to do all the little things right and hopefully it comes together and with a good score.   
   
 Q.   The finish you had in the event last year, you got an invitation to come here, how has that stood new good stead this time around?  
THOMAS PIETERS:   I got to see the course.   I wasn't really prepared last year but at least I got to play three or four rounds last year, so that helped me a little bit.  
   
 Q.   If you can't tell us your goals for the season, tell us of your ambitions for the weekend?  
THOMAS PIETERS:   For the weekend, I want to win, that's for sure.   I wouldn't be in this position if I didn't want to win, so it's simple.  
   
 Q.   What will it take to do that?  
THOMAS PIETERS:   Be patient, drive it well, drive it straight and make some putts.   
   
 Q.   Verdict on another lovely day out there?  
THOMAS PIETERS:   Yeah, good day, rough finish.   Started hitting it off line the last couple of holes but managed some good saves and bogey on 9, bad drive, so deserve it.  
   
 Q.   Are you the kind that's going to beat yourself up over that, because there's so many positives for two days?  
THOMAS PIETERS:   I've made two bogeys in two rounds.   I'm not going to beat myself up.   I'm going to the range and trying to figure it out.   
   
 Q.   It means that an awful lot is working well in your game; are surprised to find yourself in such a good, strong position.   
THOMAS PIETERS:   I've been putting it well, so that helps.   I made some good par saves today and I worked on a new putter with Callaway, so that was nice.  
   
 Q.   Yesterday you said about an affinity for the course and liking it, but you do seem to be reading those greens particularly well and getting to the right places.   
THOMAS PIETERS:   I'm rolling it well, so if you pick a good line, there's going to be a good chance of going in.   
   
 Q.   Tell me more about this new putter.   
THOMAS PIETERS:   It's black.   
   
 Q.   What is it about it that's making things work?   
THOMAS PIETERS:   It looks good for me.   I think that's most important, and just rolls well, comes good off the blade.   I've used it for the last three tournaments.   
   
 Q.   How do you approach the weekend in this lovely position you find yourself?   
THOMAS PIETERS:   Same as I did today or yesterday.   Just be calm, be patient and just do a lot of little things right.   
   
 Q.   Do you draw on the experience of finishing so well in Spain last year?   
THOMAS PIETERS:   Yeah, I think that I showed that I could do it on this tour, so just looking forward to the challenge tomorrow and this weekend.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT