SAUDI INTERNATIONAL POWERED BY SBIA
January 31, 2019
Thomas Pieters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  7 birdies and no bogeys.  How well do you think you played?  
THOMAS PIETERS: I hit my wedges and short irons really close to the hole.  I think I had maybe ten good chances for birdie and made 7 of them.  It's a very good day on the greens, as well.  Long putts, as well.  It's tricky because the greens are not that fast.   
Yeah, I think I did everything pretty well today.   
 Q.  What did you think of the golf course when you first saw it?  Because obviously we are all seeing it for the first time this week.  
THOMAS PIETERS: I thought with the wind it's going to play quite easy.  If you play in the morning, you're going to have to make a good score.  It needs some wind, and with wind, they can tuck the pins away pretty good here.   
I think if we get a lot of wind, then it's going to play pretty tricky as well.   
 Q.  Did condition change as you played the round?  
THOMAS PIETERS: Yeah, last nine, eight holes we got a bit of wind, but maybe half a club wind, so it's not that much.   
 Q.  16 in Abu Dhabi, 29 in Dubai, and five rounds in the 60s so far.  What sort of form do you feel you're bringing in here?  
THOMAS PIETERS: Pretty decent.  I haven't clicked all the right parts together yet.  I hit it great in Abu Dhabi and lost a bit of the putting there on the weekend.   
I think if I can just keep doing what I'm doing, and one of these weeks, the putts will drop and hopefully have another good result.   
 Q.  How good was that round?  
THOMAS PIETERS: Yeah, it was good.  I hit it really close today.  I had a lot of wedges to four or five feet, which I could be aggressive with the putts because the greens are good but they are rather slow and very grainy.   
So if you've gotten, 12-footers, you tend to aim the hole most of the times and I had a lot of short putts, so I could be aggressive and take the break out of it.   
 Q.  Does this course suit long hitters?  
THOMAS PIETERS: Yeah, I can carry a couple of bunkers, but I think everybody is hitting it far.  It's warm.  It's hot.  The ball is traveling far.  I definitely drove it well today, and obviously those ten, 15 extra metres can help sometimes, yeah.   
 Q.  Was it important to get off to a good start, because it can get windy in the afternoon.  
THOMAS PIETERS: Yeah, we knew that.  They said around 11.30 or 12.00, it's going to pick up every day, and it did.  We played eight holes or nine holes in the wind, but it wasn't that windy.  It was half a club of wind.   
So yeah, just need to manage it well and hit it in the right spots to the flag because they can put them away quite good.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT