CART MEDIA CONFERENCE
April 28, 1998
Patrick Carpentier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 

T.E. McHALE: Thank you all for bearing with us  today while we had a little technical difficulty getting  the call together. We'd like to extend a special welcome  to our guest this afternoon, driver Patrick Carpentier,  of Player's Forsythe Racing. Good afternoon, Patrick,  and thank you for being with us this afternoon. 

PATRICK CARPENTIER: Good afternoon. I  apologize for being a few minutes late also.  

T.E. McHALE: Good afternoon again, Patrick,  driver of the No. 33 Player's/Indeck Reynard Mercedes. Earned a first pole position of his FedEx Championship  series career on Saturday when he toured the .946 mile  oval at Nazareth Speedway in a track record 18.419  seconds, averaging 184.896 miles per hour, having  qualified third at Nazareth last year, Patrick now owns  his two best career qualifying efforts at Nazareth  Speedway.  He finished 13th in Monday's rain-delayed Bosch  Spark Plug Grand Prix presented by Toyota, his  second-best finish of the 1998 season. He was 11th in  the season opener at Homestead. Patrick was CART's 1997  Rookie of the Year, and his second-place performance in  last year's Motorola 300 at Gateway International Raceway  stands at the best finish of the 13-year history of  Bettenhausen Motorsports.  Heading into the May 10th Rio 400, round five  of the FedEx Championship Series, he is 21st in the PPG  Cup standings, with three points. The Rio 400 will be  televised by tape delay on ABC on Monday, May 10th,  beginning at 3:30 p.m. Eastern time.  We will now open the floor for questions. 


Q. Patrick, I just wonder if you would comment a  little bit just on the -- I don't know, the growing pains  I guess of a young driver coming into this series and the  frustrations, you know, trying to establish yourself and  build a name for yourself and also at the same time the  responsibilities I guess of, you know, the series with  the Bobby Rahals of the world starting to retire and  things like that, trying to promote the new, young  drivers coming into the series. 

PATRICK CARPENTIER: Yeah, I think that the  series is more and more competitive, the FedEx CART  Championship Series is one of the most competitive in the  world now, with NASCAR and Formula One. I'm pretty happy  to be part of it, especially with the pole we had this  weekend. I was really happy with the big names, like  Bobby Rahal, Unser, and all these guys. I think there's  more and more kids that are coming to the sport, with  like development programs, like Player's has one. Many  team has. And more and more kids are going to be coming,  and I think that it's just a generation change.  Bobby decided that it was his last year, and he  said to one of my friend that you don't lose any speed as  you get older, you just maybe sometimes want to take it a  little more easy on the racetrack but in the life itself. So he thought it was time for him to retire, but they're  still extremely competitive.  Does that answer the question? 

Q. Sure.  

T.E. McHALE: Before we go any further, I want  to point out we will have a slot of time at the end of  this teleconference for journalists who wish to ask  questions in French. So we'll take some English  questions to start, and we'll leave some time at the end  for journalists who want to ask a question in French.  


Q. How are you today? 

PATRICK CARPENTIER: Not too bad. The cold is  a little bit better. 

Q. That's good. A question I have. Quebec  athletes are idolized in their province and particularly  in race car driving. How much pressure do you feel? First of all, you're Canadian racing in largely American  and -- European American, plus carrying the extra  pressure of a whole province that watches and hangs on  every race. Does that factor in at all when you're  racing? Do you feel extra pressure at all? 

PATRICK CARPENTIER: No, you don't really think  about that. Sometimes you just want to perform and win  so it makes your country happy and the people that are  watching that are hoping you're going to get a pole or a  victory pretty happy, so you always want to do the best  you can and try to make the fans happy. But every driver  in the series has fans, and when it's someone else that  wins, then you just have to wait until it's your turn.  But I live in U.S. now, so I don't see as  much -- we get a lot of coverage in Quebec and people and  stuff. I live in the U.S., so there's maybe a little bit  less pressure from that, being away to the center of  racing of the U.S. 

Q. You are in the pole position, you're sitting  No. 1, because of some fueling problems, you finished  13th yesterday. How frustrating was that? 

PATRICK CARPENTIER: It was frustrating, but  compared to the first three weekends we had, I was  extremely happy. A pole position doesn't happen every  weekend with the FedEx CART series, and the Player's did  a great job with the car. The car was perfect all  weekend. We were fast in the race, we just didn't have  the timing to the pit stop. We had to stop eight times  total. We had problem with the fuel holes, and it was a  shame, but at least we had very good speed. We were  competitive, and I think the more the season will go, the  better we'll be. We'll have more timing in the pits.  But in the CART series, everything has to be  perfect. The pits has to be perfect, the car, the  strategy and everything, and we missed in the pits, but  hopefully next time, we'll be good in the pits.  

Q. Patrick, winning your first pole, can you tell  us what it will do for your growth as a driver in CART? 

PATRICK CARPENTIER: I think it's going to be  very good. I had a lot of pole position and victories in  former Atlantic, but it's been a while since we've had  very good results. In the CART series, it takes some  time to learn and a lot of testing. But the confidence  plays a big part in the driver, and I think that coming  into this weekend after the tests we did at Portland,  where we were half a second faster than last year's pole  position, I was very confident and very happy because I  struggled a bit more on the road course than on the oval  last year. And I've always preferred the road course  before. So I think a good result on road course. I knew  if we get some times and without any problems, gear box,  and any of that that we had, electronics that we had  early on the season, that we'd be quick. Because my  engineer understands my driving. He understands what  kind of car I need to be fast, and I think he understands  it more and more, so I think that this pole position will  only add up to the atmosphere on the team. And I think  all the team needs is just to prove when everything goes  right, then we can be up at the front too. 

Q. If I may ask a secondary question. What do you  think the team will now do to make sure that that fueling  problem won't happen again? Will you do a lot of  practicing? 

PATRICK CARPENTIER: Yeah. I left this week,  I'm on vacation this week at my parents' house in Quebec. The team is going to practice the pit stop. They're  going to recheck the whole system. I know right after  the race, they tried to put fuel in, they did a lot of  tests and trying to find out what went wrong with the  hose or the box where the fuel goes in or the vent or  whatever it could be. So they're trying to find out. They didn't know for sure after the race, but I think  they're going to work on it this week until we find out. 

Q. So you think it was a mechanical problem rather  than a manmade problem, a problem with -- 

PATRICK CARPENTIER: Yeah, we don't know yet,  but I think it was more mechanical. That's what Tony  told me that he thinks it's mechanical things that went  wrong. But we're not sure what happened yet, so maybe  we'll find out this week. 

Q. Congratulations, Patrick, on your  qualification. 

PATRICK CARPENTIER: Thank you.  

Q. First you had qualification, then the rain,  then the race. Did that grade off the track, change the  track conditions enough for you to feel it, sense a  difference, or did you take anything away from that  change in track conditions that you think you can use  later on in your career? 

PATRICK CARPENTIER: It changed the track a  little bit, but it didn't change the balance of the car,  so the balance of the car seems to have stayed about the  same. Our car was pretty good. At one point it was a  little bit loose in the race, but characteristics were  pretty much the same as the day before, so there was not  much change.  What we watch for a lot more than the track  condition is the air density, and that had changed from  Saturday to Monday a little bit, but the engineers know  what to do to adjust the car so we don't feel the change  very much. 

Q. I'm wondering with the problems that you had  during the race and when it's something that's occurring  in the pits and you know it's not going to go away, is  that at the point where you kind of become the team  leader and try to make sure that the team knows that  you're remaining patient with them? 

PATRICK CARPENTIER: Yes. After the race, the  team was a little bit discouraged because they thought we  had a really good car, a podium-finish car, a top five,  and we didn't pull it out. But there's a lot of new  people on the team, and it always takes some time. Lee  Dykstra my engineer, and Michael Cannon, they still have  some stuff to learn, although Lee is really good and  Mike. They were in Indy Lights last year. They've got  some new stuff in Indy Cars now with engines and  calibrations and all that. So we still have to learn on  that.  After the race, that's what I said to one of  the guys from the crew kind of apologized and I said, oh,  no, I'm very happy because I think that we can win. You  don't get a pole position every day, and especially in  that series where it's so competitive, and Player's has  always had good race cars and always prepared good stuff. So it's just timing a little bit. But at least the speed  was there and I told them that, you know, the speed is  there, we only need to get timing. That's it. With  practice, we'll get it to together. But at least this  weekend for the first time this year, we showed we had  really good speed. 

Q. So with you taking that type of a role, is this  yet another learning process in your development? 

PATRICK CARPENTIER: Yeah. I've learned a lot  this year since I've been with the Player's. They seem  to be used to having new drivers. They brought a lot of  confidence back in me that I had lost a little bit with  the hard season towards the end of the year last year,  and they always encourage and teach me some things. I  have Richard Spenard that is the driver coach for the  development program. He follows me around. He's been  with me since I was 15. The only year I didn't have him  was last year.  And this year, he tells me like for qualifying,  he told me something to do in Corner 3 and I did it and  it was much faster. It's coming up all together, and I  think we're going to be stronger on ovals. It's hard to  be stronger than the pole position, but on road course,  we're going to be stronger and stronger also. And  probably next year we'll -- or maybe this year, too,  fight for the championship. 

Q. Congratulations on the pole.  

PATRICK CARPENTIER: Thank you. 

Q. Now, I remember last year when you were hired  by Bettenhausen and Bettenhausen was on one of these  teleconferences and he said, you know, I was amazed at  that kid talking on the radio as he was going through a  turn at full throttle down at Sebring. Now, yesterday I  was on your Web site listening to you people and  somebody's talking to you in Canadian -- I mean, in  French, and who might that have been? 

PATRICK CARPENTIER: Yeah, that's the one I was  just talking about is Richard Spenard. He helps me for  the restarts and all that. Then he tells me who is  gaining on me in which corners and what we need to gain  and who to watch if somebody is coming behind. He's part  of the Player's development program, but he was the owner  of the Spenard/David Racing School and that's where I  started racing with Jaques Villeneuve, and he's been  teaching me since I was 15. He's been a very positive  thing for me.  Then he came to Portland, helped me a lot. Improved the driving and the car and everything. I think  that it's a good mix between him, me and my engineering. 

Q. I don't know what he was saying, but he was  telling you some good stuff evidently. 

PATRICK CARPENTIER: Yeah, he tries to  encourage me sometimes. He tries to tell me like in  Corner 3, I was a bit faster than ever everybody else. I  was losing a bit of ground in Corner 2, so he was telling  me to keep what I'm doing in Corner 3 and try to get a  little bit faster, and Jimmy was trying to try to pass me  at one point. He said if you take that corner just fast  enough, he cannot pass because he cannot make it to you  before you come back. So a lot of stuff like that that's  helping me in the race. 

Q. I know you're coming to Gateway International  in May. Compare that track with Nazareth a little bit. 

PATRICK CARPENTIER: It's very similar. I  thought it was a very similar track. You have a long  corner that's basically flat out in fifth gear or sixth  gear depending on what you use to race, and it's a little  bit bumpy but not enough to upset the car. And you come  into Corner 1 and 2, which is banked a little bit, same  thing as Nazareth where you have to slow down a little  bit more and lose more speed. It's a pretty similar  setup than what you're in at Nazareth, and we had good  luck there last year. Hopefully it will be good this  year. 

Q. Good luck at Rio and get some of those zinc  pills. They'll get rid of that cold.  

PATRICK CARPENTIER: Thank you.  

Q. Fantastic result on Saturday with the pole. Wonder if you had helium in your tires there to keep you  so light around the corner? 

PATRICK CARPENTIER: Yeah, it was one of my  best qualifying effort, even including Atlantic. It was  very fast. I did Corner 1 and 2 flat out. The car had a  lot of grip. We made a small change just before we went  out to qualify. The car was basically neutral perfect,  and I could come up to temperature very quickly with the  tires. So the first two laps, I took it a bit slower  because at Homestead, my fast lap happens too quick and  the lap after that was much slower, so I learned from  that and I waited a little bit more and adjusted what we  call a bonsai, a lap going into Corner 3 where I was  braking all weekend. The car had so much grip that I  decided not to brake going into Corner 3, and I just  lifted the throttle a little bit and the car went  sideways a little bit, but it had so much grip that when  I came back to the power, it just balanced itself and we  took the corner very fast, 15 miles an hour faster than  what we did before. 

Q. That was great to watch on the stats. Going  into Rio, that's an oval, but it's kind of road-coursy. Can you talk about that a little? 

PATRICK CARPENTIER: Yeah, I'm pretty happy to  go back to Rio. Last year, we had a good run there. We  were third fastest in the morning warm-up. It's a little  bit like a road course. You have two very long  straightaways, and you have corners which you rarely do  on a oval, down shift for the corners two or three gears  and then go back up to gear. It's like an oval with two  air pits at each end of it, but a little bit wider, and  it's been good for us.  Last year, it was very bumpy, a lot of bumps on  the back, so we can't lower the car as much as we would  like to on other ovals, but we'll see how it's going to  go there. Nobody test there, and last year it was great. We had bad luck at the start because we were involved in  an accident, but hopefully this year if we get to qualify  good, we'll get our pit stops straight and have a good  race. 

Q. Well, you have a good time on your holiday  there and get better and have a good race in Rio. 

PATRICK CARPENTIER: Thank you.  

T.E. McHALE: We'll begin taking questions in  French for those of you who wish to ask Patrick a  question in French. If you wish to ask a question, press  star 1, and again, French questions for Patrick,  beginning right now.  (Questions and answers in French.) We want to thank you all who  joined us. We want to thank Patrick for joining us  today. We wish him the best of luck in the Rio 400. Thanks all of you who are still with us and who stayed  with us. Have a good afternoon. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT