STANFORD ST. JUDE CHAMPIONSHIP
June 6, 2008
Tommy Armour III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You're still tied for first. Not a way to end this round.
 TOMMY ARMOUR III: Thirty-six holes left. I make bogies and doubles. It's the way it happens.

 Q. How hard are the conditions out there? With the wind and --
 TOMMY ARMOUR III: You know, it's tricky. You got to hit good shots, quality shots, and hit a lot of them today, and I played as good as I did yesterday. So looking forward to tomorrow.

 Q. What about club selection? Is that a problem to get the gusts that come up, you've got to go back to the bag and change?
 TOMMY ARMOUR III: No. Pretty much pick a club and go with it. I hit more club in the wind and less downwind. That's really about all it is.

 Q. Did you have difficulty with the conditions and just the pin placements?
 TOMMY ARMOUR III: Everybody has had practice this year with wind because this is the windiest year since I've been on Tour. And so, you know, it's -- it's just another week of breezy stuff.

 Q. The wind is supposed to die down this weekend. It's just going to be hot. How is that going to change the way you guys play?
 TOMMY ARMOUR III: I don't mind if it blows. If it does, I walk in it.

 Q. Any indication that you're going to play this well coming into this week?
 TOMMY ARMOUR III: Yeah.

 Q. You've been playing well?
 TOMMY ARMOUR III: I finished 10th my last tournament, and I've been playing good, and I expected to play good this week.

 Q. Tommy, the conditions continue like this with the wind, is it more like going out there and surviving as opposed to not doing anything, just playing within yourself?
 TOMMY ARMOUR III: You just got to take what the course gives you. You hit good shots, the greens are perfect and you're going to have lots of birdies. And if you don't, you know, you got to figure out how you're going to make a par. 

 Q. You like the tougher courses or what?
 TOMMY ARMOUR III: Doesn't matter to me. It's everybody is making birdies, then I'll make some birdies. If not -- this course -- this year, everybody has been practicing the wind game. I think everybody is ready to go with their wind games. Might be a little different. Not everyone.

 Q. I would imagine if they told you on Wednesday after 36 you're tied for the lead, you would be quite happy.
 TOMMY ARMOUR III: You know, there's 72 holes in this. Halfway is halfway. You tell me about that later. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT