STANFORD ST. JUDE CHAMPIONSHIP
June 5, 2008
Tommy Armour III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOAN vt ALEXANDER: We'd like to thank Tommy Armour III for joining us for a few minutes here in the Media Center at the Standford Championship.  
Lies solid out there, 4-under par. Bogey on 8 but still in those conditions, you should be pretty proud of your day.  
 TOMMY ARMOUR III: I was happy.  
 JOAN vt ALEXANDER: Questions, please?  
  
  Q. How challenging were the conditions with the winds and the greens out there today?  
 TOMMY ARMOUR III: Well, you know, I mean, the rough isn't real deep. So, I mean, if you get blown off in the rough, it's not penal like next week would be. You've got to hit the shots because the greens are firm and the greens are perfect.   
 I mean, the course is in great shape. The wind is blowing. But it's blowing a lot this year, so it's not like this is new for us. This is not new for everybody this year. This is the windiest -- this is my 26th year, and this is the windiest year that I remember.  
  
  Q. Just to follow-up on that point you made about the wind, do you guys kind of go into a week with a plan windy, not windy? You just kind of take it --  
 TOMMY ARMOUR III: If you go with that plan, you're going to get blindsided. You've got to be prepared for everything. If you go in hoping it's not windy and the starts blowing, you're going to be in trouble.  
  
  Q. The winds -- is it making club selection tough and how much of an effect is it having on that?  
 TOMMY ARMOUR III: Into the wind more club, downwind less club. You got to figure it out. We've had a lot of practice in wind this year. I think a calm day would throw everybody off a little bit.   
 JOAN vt ALEXANDER: Any more questions? Let's go through your card real quick.  
 You started on 10.  
 TOMMY ARMOUR III: Birdie on 12, hit a nice driver, 7-iron in there about 15 feet and made that. 16, I laid it up about 90 yards, hit it about 4 feet.  
 1, I hit it about 16 feet right of the hole.   
 2, I hit it -- I mean 4 I hit it about, you, 3 feet, and 7 I chipped in on and 8 bogey. Hit it on the green and 2-putted. Missed the green, got it on the green and 2-putt.  
 JOAN vt ALEXANDER: Any big putts or any shots that --  
 TOMMY ARMOUR III: I chipped in on 7. That was good. Made a nice par on 5. I hit it in the left trees and tried to chip it out. Didn't quite get it out. Then I laid it up. I wedged in it there about 8 feet and made that for par, so -- but I mean, those are the kind of putts you have to make to play better.  
 JOAN vt ALEXANDER: All right. Thanks for joining us.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT