GINN SUR MER CLASSIC AT TESORO
October 26, 2007
Tommy Armour III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOE CHEMYCZ:  We welcome Tommy Armour into the interview area.  Tommy with a 5-under par 68 today, tied for the lead.  Birdies on the last two holes.  A couple of good days for you.  Talk real quick about that and a couple of questions. 
 TOMMY ARMOUR III:  Just played good, and I'm 14 under par.  What else can you say about it?  It's wet out there.  It's a long course, and you've got to hit it where you're looking. 
 JOE CHEMYCZ:  Obviously you're hitting it well off the tee.  But greens in regulation, 17 yesterday.  16 today.  That's, obviously, a strong point the first two days of your iron play. 
 TOMMY ARMOUR III:  Well, you've got to drive it first in the fairway to get it on the green.  I've just been hitting it solid. 

 Q.  Could you talk a little about how your back is holding up?  You said last night that it was getting a little tight on you - how is it? 
 TOMMY ARMOUR III:  I'm 48, and I've been out there for 10 hours, it's fine (laughing).  It just got a little stiff, and I just wanted to get off my feet. 

 Q.  It's wetter today than yesterday.  How much, if at all, more difficult does that make everything? 
 TOMMY ARMOUR III:  I think it's just wet, and you know, it's hard to find places to drop the balls besides the water.  I mean, it's wet.  The course is not going to dry out, either. 

 Q.  Not for a while? 
 TOMMY ARMOUR III:  No, not this week anyway. 

 Q.  How exciting is it for you to be in this position?  The leaderboard is a mix of guys some young, some older, guys who never won, guys who haven't won in a long time.  How thrilling is it for to you enter the weekend into that mix again? 
 TOMMY ARMOUR III:  We play golf to win tournaments.  You know, I haven't won -- I've only won two in my career on the PGA TOUR, so I'm excited whenever I have a chance to win.  I look forward to it, and that's why I work hard and that's why I'm here. 

 Q.  Do you like playing courses where you can go low?  Do you like it better when par means more?  Talk about that? 
 TOMMY ARMOUR III:  Doesn't matter to me.  I mean, the scores are the scores, you know.  Everybody's shooting low, you better shoot low.  If the course is tough, you know. 
 But the scores are just kind of how the course plays.  If it's tough, you know.  8 under wins the tournament, 8 under is a good score.  20 under wins it, it's a pretty good score.  So it's not like, you know -- I mean, I can shoot low, I'm not worried about shooting low playing hard courses. 

 Q.  What does it mean to you to have the Tour's scoring record? 
 TOMMY ARMOUR III:  It's about the only record I can probably hold.  At 48, it's about the only record.  It's not going to be the most wins on Tour.  It's not going to be the most majors.  The lowest score is about the only record I can hold. 

 Q.  Birdies and bogies real quick?  You started on 10 and a bunch of pars until we got to 16? 
 TOMMY ARMOUR III:  Six pars, eagled 16 and birdied 17. 

 Q.  What did do you on the eagle there? 
 TOMMY ARMOUR III:  I hit a 5-wood about three feet, tapped it in.  And birdied 17 with a 5-wood about 16, 17 feet, made it. 
 Two, I hit driver, 3-wood, just short of the green.  Chipped out about three feet, made it.  
JOE CHEMYCZ: Bogeyed 5.  
TOMMY ARMOUR III:  I hit it five times. Then I birdied 8 and 9. 

JOE CHEMYCZ:  Putted at 8? 
 TOMMY ARMOUR III:  8 was a good shot in there.  It rolled back down the hill.  Hit about 8 feet from the hole.  Rolled back down the hill, and made about a 25-footer, 30-footer whatever it was.  And then on 18 I hit it about a foot on my last hole.  So I hit it well all day. 

 Q.  You have a reputation of being one of the more fun-loving guys out here.  Would you talk a little about that? 
 TOMMY ARMOUR III:  About that?  You know, I pick my place (laughing).  You know, I work as hard as anybody out here, but when I have fun, I have fun.  There's not really more you can say about it. 
 I don't want to be 50, and think I missed a lot.  A lot of guys out here are 33 years old, and they know where 32 golf courses are. 

 Q.  (Indiscernible)? 
 TOMMY ARMOUR III:  Just, you get one trip. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT