CHRYSLER CHAMPIONSHIP
October 29, 2004
Tommy Armour III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TODD BUDNICK:  We thank Tommy Armour III for joining us after a 64 in the second round at the Chrysler Championship.  Tommy, your best round of the season it looks like, 64.  Talk a little bit about the day out there.
TOMMY ARMOUR III:  I hit a lot of good golf shots, made some putts.
TODD BUDNICK:  No bogeys, and two birdies to start, kind of got you rolling from there.
TOMMY ARMOUR III:  Hit it about eight feet on the first hole, made birdie.  Actually kind of hit it in the left trees, hit a punch, kind of ricocheted out in the fairway.  That's how things happen.  I hit it about 15 feet from there and made birdie.
TODD BUDNICK:  You're 153rd on the Money List but you have no worries from your victory last year, but obviously it must be nice to come out and you'd like to finish a little bit higher on the Money List.
TOMMY ARMOUR III:  Yeah, this has not been a good year, so it'll be nice to finish with a good tournament.
Q.  Are you surprised that -- I don't want to say it's playing easy, but there have been a lot of good scores out there on this course.  It doesn't appear that it would yield them.
TOMMY ARMOUR III:  After 22 years, nothing surprises me.  I mean, if you drive it in the fairway you can hit it at the pins, and the greens are perfect and you make putts.  Guys aren't out there spraying it around all over the golf course, at least guys that are playing good.
Q.  You said it's been a tough year for you.  Why?  What's been the problem?
TOMMY ARMOUR III:  Well, as far as, you know, where I am on the Money List it's been a tough year, but other than that it's been a good year.  I worked on a lot of things, had some fun.  I mean, it's a tough year as far as how you calibrate yourself as a golfer.
Q.  Was there anything that kept you from playing better golf?
TOMMY ARMOUR III:  High scores (laughter).
Q.  What led to them?
TOMMY ARMOUR III:  Hitting it too many times.  I mean, you know, you look at your stats, when you're 170th in putting, that's not good.  You know, just the -- I've had some good tournaments, had some chances where I could have played good and just didn't play good.
Q.  Can you talk about the golf course, please, how much you like it?
TOMMY ARMOUR III:  I think it's probably one of the top 10 courses we play on Tour as far as -- you've got to hit a lot of different types of shots.  You definitely can't spray it around and play good here.  I think it's probably one of the, if not the best, one of the best courses we play in Florida.  It's a nice venue.  Everything is right here.  It's an easy tournament to play because you don't have to battle traffic, so on and so forth, you're right here on campus, and it's a nice golf course.

Any type of player can play this golf course, long, short, whatever.
Q.  Do you like the fact that trees --
TOMMY ARMOUR III:  Yeah, I always like trees.
Q.  Trees frame the --
TOMMY ARMOUR III:  I always like that.  I like that.  I mean, I like links golf, too, but I like tree-lined golf courses.
Q.  Is that the traditionalist in you?
TOMMY ARMOUR III:  No.  I mean, I like links golf, too.  I enjoy that as much.  If I were to have one or the other, I'd prefer a tree-lined course.
Q.  You'd like to see more of these?
TOMMY ARMOUR III:  Yeah, and I mean, the way the courses are set up now on Tour, I mean, it suits long ball, high hitting.  That's the way it is, firm greens with soft fairways.  I mean, that's the way they set them up.  If you don't like it, you shouldn't play on Tour.  It hasn't changed in a few years, and I doubt if it's going to.
Q.  When you won last year, did you feel that that might propel you to more greatness, or did it give you confidence for a short period of time?
TOMMY ARMOUR III:  It gives me confidence.  I mean, I haven't played without confidence this year, I just haven't got it done when I had to get it done, and that's -- why that is, it's probably a handful of reasons why, but I know it's up to me to improve it.
TODD BUDNICK:  Can we go through the rest of your birdies, Tommy?
TOMMY ARMOUR III:  15, I hit a 4-iron about four or five feet.

18, I hit an 8-iron about eight feet.

1, I hit a pitching wedge about four feet.

5, I hit a lob wedge in there about four feet.

Next hole, hit an 8-iron about five feet.

That was it.
Q.  I know your score is better, but overall it seems like it's playing a little tougher today.  Is there anything you noticed?  Are any of the tees longer or pins tougher?
TOMMY ARMOUR III:  I mean, this is a tough golf course.  I mean, you have to drive it in the fairway to play this -- to shoot low numbers.  You're not going to shoot low numbers on this course playing out of the rough.  I mean, that's just a fact.  Maybe guys are just hitting it in the rough more.

But the pins were in a few -- well, they were on knobs yesterday, too.  They're on knobs every day.  That's the way they set up the courses.

They want us to play in four hours, and in 72 holes of golf, you don't have too many straight putts.  It's hard to play in four hours with three guys lining up with their career, you know.
TODD BUDNICK:  Thanks, Tommy.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT