VALERO TEXAS OPEN
September 28, 2003
Tommy Armour III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Tommy, congratulations, the winner of the 2003 Valero Texas Open.  You broke numerous records and one of the biggest records you broke is the scoring record of 254 the all-time record on the PGA Tour.  Congratulations.  Make a couple of comments on what you're feeling right now and how great it feels to win after 13 years.

TOMMY ARMOUR III:   It was funny, I asked my caddie, what's the all-time low record out here.  He wasn't sure and he said, you probably need to make a par or birdie for it.  I figured okay, and I hooked it in the bunker and didn't have a real good stance and I hit a terrible shot out of there.  I did make the putt, and I thought that would be nice to have, being 43 and do that.

JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER: Congratulations.

TOMMY ARMOUR III:   Thank you.  What was the old record?

JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:   In fact, it's interesting, it was Mark Calcavecchia, 256 at the Phoenix Open at 2001, which is obviously the tournament you won.

TOMMY ARMOUR III:   It's nice, I guess, to have the all-time record.  I didn't really think about it until about 5, 6 holes to go.  I said, if I make a few birdies, I could maybe have a shot at that.  I was pleased.


Q.  On a career basis, that's probably almost as good as shooting a 59.

TOMMY ARMOUR III:   I almost did that one time.  I shot 60.  It was great.  I've worked pretty hard for the last 5, 6 months.  It paid off today.  You've been coming to this tournament even before you were playing, right?  You had been to the Texas Open as a kid.

TOMMY ARMOUR III:   My first year was 1982 here, as a player.  As a kid, my mom had a sister that lived here growing up.  He was a colonel at Marsh Air Force base here.  What's the Air Force base in San Antonio?


Q.  Lackland?

TOMMY ARMOUR III:   He was a colonel there.  As kids, we were coming here.  We actually drove here from Las Vegas with my mom and my brother and I, so I've been coming to San Antonio for a long time.  I always thought I could win this tournament when it was at Oak  Hill.  And when it moved over here, I thought I had a couple of chances to win the tournament here.  I played in the last group a couple of times.  I always thought I could win the tournament here.

JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  It must have been special to have your son here.  I'm sure he doesn't travel often, but I'm sure it was great to have him see you win.

TOMMY ARMOUR III:   He was supposed to fly home today at 2:00, but his mom and I had a conference call last night and we'll ship him back tomorrow.  He's been to about 12 tournaments this year.  He's really been getting on me.  He said, Dad, you have to start playing better, you have to start making those putts.  He just shakes his head.  If I shoot 70 or 71, he would shake his head and say, you have to start making putts.  This week I told him, I made a few putts this week, didn't I.


Q.  When Duffy got off to the hot start and cut the lead to 3, you didn't crack at all, you got birdies on 5, 7, 8, 9?

TOMMY ARMOUR III:   He birdied the first three holes, but on No. 1, I had a 3-wood in there.  They always kick right there and it kicked left in the bunker.  It was tough little shot.  I actually read the putt wrong.  I made par, but I just ripped the tee shot, 3-wood, and bunker shot.  And the next hole I hit a nice driver and 7-iron in there about 12 feet and missed that.

And then next hole I hit about -- a little bit outside of Duffy and hit a pretty good putt.  And then the next hole I hit a good tee shot and a good iron in there.

And then Duffy before me rolled  one six feet by, and I was sitting there, okay, this will be a nice one to make sure here and turn this thing around.  He might miss this shot.   When I made my putt there, that was big because if I missed that and he makes this -- which he did make his putt, it's now two shots.  I made that and 30-footer on the next one for birdie, and then I felt good. 

On 6, the par  3, I hit -- I was on the tee first for making the birdie on the previous hole and I hit it in there about 25 feet behind the hole, hit a good shot, and he hit it in the right bunker and then he didn't get it up and down.  I felt pretty good there.  And then I birdied the next three holes after that.  At the turn, I pretty much felt I was in charge of the tournament.  I didn't think anybody could win the tournament.


Q.  You didn't make a bogey until No. 10.  You had a pretty good stretch there.

TOMMY ARMOUR III:   I didn't make a bogey for my last 18 either.  I had a little longer stretch than that.  My bogey was a 3-putt.  I completely misread the putt on 10.

I just played really solid golf, hitting a lot of good solid shots.  I mean, the ball was going where I was aiming all week.  I was picking out targets, I didn't shoot at a lot of pins unless I had an 8-iron or less.  I hit at my targets all week and I made putts.


Q.  Bob Tway hadn't won in eight years.  He said after he won this summer it did a lot for his confidence.  Do you anticipate it doing the same for you?

TOMMY ARMOUR III:   It has to help your confidence.  Yeah.  It's certainly going to help my confidence.


Q.  Your grandfather was noted for doing some legendary things in the game of golf.  Do you think this would even impress him, what you did this week?

TOMMY ARMOUR III:   Hopefully it would have impressed him.  My dad died in March this year, and he had a goatee, a mustache, for five years and he said he was going to shave it when I win my next tournament, and he can shave it now.


Q.  A lot of friends came in to see your final round.

TOMMY ARMOUR III:   I had 25 people come down from Dallas today.  They drove, flew, and buses.  I have a lot of good friends in Dallas and we have a lot of fun there together, and I'm really glad they came today.  It helped a lot and meant a lot.


Q.  Where is the party tonight?

TOMMY ARMOUR III:   Bernaise in Dallas.  They are a keeping the restaurant open for me as long as I want tonight.  They've already made the call down.


Q.  I asked a couple of players this question earlier.  I'll ask you, how do you explain a guy who hasn't won 13 years and has struggled a lot this year and then comes and sets the all-time PGA Tour scoring record?

TOMMY ARMOUR III:   I was thinking about that last night laying in bed before I went to sleep.  I said, where in the hell did this come from.  I don't know.  I guess they call it "in the zone" or whatever.  I've always felt I've underachieved for the talent I have since I've been on the Tour.  I always have a lot of friends and I've spent a lot of time with them.  I take it serious, but it's not the end all.  I enjoy being around my friends and my son and my brother and all the people that I know all over the world. 

You only get one trip around life.  Golf is just it's something that I love to do.  I don't play for the money, I never have.  I play it because I love it.  It's just something I love to do.  I was blessed with the talent to do it and so -- I mean, I've never played for the money.  I honestly know that in my heart.  A lot of guys play for the money.  You can tell in the way they are, too.  I love going to tournaments and seeing friends and playing golf and having everyone come out and watch me play, all over the country.  I've made a lot of good friends through golf over the last 22 years playing golf professionally.


Q.  In addition to the obvious talent that you have, you must be very satisfied with the adjustments that you have made in the last couple,  three months to your swing.

TOMMY ARMOUR III:   You never know if they're going to work.  I've made a lot of adjustments and played worst.


Q.  This must be satisfying for you.

TOMMY ARMOUR III: Yes, it's satisfying.  I knew it was satisfying because I was starting to like it on film.  When I start to like my swing on film, I know I'm on the right track.

JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Tommy, for joining us, and congratulations again. 


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT