VALERO TEXAS OPEN
September 27, 2003
Tommy Armour III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Tommy, for joining us for a few minutes here in the media center at the Valero Texas Open.  Another excellent round.  No bogeys again.  You're bogey-free for the weekend, 21-under.  Talk about what might be going through your mind this week, as well as your playing.  It's awesome.

TOMMY ARMOUR III:   Really I'm just doing the things I've been doing.  I've been working on it and I really don't know.  What can I say?  It's going where I'm aiming it.


Q.  Do you hate to see the round end?

TOMMY ARMOUR III:  I'm going to rest for a while.


Q.  Talk about the stretch at the end.  Is that as good of golf you've played in however long?

TOMMY ARMOUR III:   21-under.  I never shot 21-under in a tournament before, in a four-day event, so yes.


Q.  Did it all click for you this morning or sometime when you were out on the course it all came together?

TOMMY ARMOUR III:   For the last couple of months I've been playing good.  I lost the Canadian Open by six shots.  If I had made some putts in that tournament, I would have won by 6, 7 shots.  I played good there and just didn't make any putts.  I knew it.  Last week, I made the cut, but got cut with that rain delay thing.  I made one bogey in two rounds there.  I should have won.  I left the Canadian Open, and I should have won that tournament.


Q.  You're tied at 189 with two other players, being the lowest score in the PGA Tour.  How do you feel about this tournament, even though you know this tournament is not over yet?

TOMMY ARMOUR III:   It's a nice accomplishment to have.  I'm glad my name is on there.


Q.  Your caddie said that your lead wasn't big enough.  You mentioned that.  At what hole did he tell you your lead wasn't big enough?

TOMMY ARMOUR III:   When we started.  He's been saying it every three holes.  With these players out here on the Tour, your lead is never big enough.


Q.  Do you enjoy the city off the course.  I know you like to stay busy off the course.  What have you doing this week in San Antonio?

TOMMY ARMOUR III:   I haven't been doing much.  I've been playing a lot and resting at night.


Q.  Did you attack the course a little more aggressively or was it something that came --

TOMMY ARMOUR III: No, I'm just hitting the shots that fit my eye and hitting the putts and taking what they give me.


Q.  Were you surprised at all by your success today?

TOMMY ARMOUR III:   No.


Q.  You were talking yesterday about how you like San Antonio and you like to win here.  Is there a reason you think maybe you're not mentioned as much as some of the other Texas golfers --

TOMMY ARMOUR III:   Some people don't even know I live in Dallas.


Q.  Why do you think that is?

TOMMY ARMOUR III:   It's just the way I am, I guess.  I don't know. 


Q.  You've been driving the ball really well this week.  Are you feeling positive about your driving aspect?

TOMMY ARMOUR III:   I'm feeling good about all of it.  Like I told you, the last few months it's all been pretty good.


Q.  It's just going well?

TOMMY ARMOUR III: Yes.


Q.  Can you put your finger on where it started to change to get going good for you?

TOMMY ARMOUR III:   Four months ago, I kept hitting some pull hooks and I couldn't figure it out.  Everything I was doing, it wasn't fixing it.  And then one day -- I was just taking video every day, and then one day Mike Abbott and myself, we just kind of saw it on video.  And I went back to a few things that Mac O'Grady taught me and talked about and kind of put the whole thing together.  And I was with Fran Farasola one day, too, and all of it, it kind of clicked one day.  I have to change that part of my swing and then it won't do that anymore, and that's what happened.


Q.  Do you remember when you got away from that?

TOMMY ARMOUR III:   When I got away from it?


Q.  Right.

TOMMY ARMOUR III:   When I didn't play as well.


Q.  What specifically was that?  What part of your swing?

TOMMY ARMOUR III:   Just part of my swing.


Q.  Your last victory came in 1990, what would it mean to get another victory 13 years later?

TOMMY ARMOUR III:   It would mean I have two victories.  It means a lot to me.  I've been working on it.  I've had stretches where I should have won a lot of tournaments, but I haven't.  I've won one.

JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Can we go through your seven birdies, starting on the second hole.

TOMMY ARMOUR III:   Second hole, I hit a driver, 7-iron about three feet, made that.

7, I hit a 6-iron, sand wedge about 5 feet.

Next hole, I hit 2-iron, pitching wedge about 25 feet and made it.

12, I hit 2-iron, pitching wedge about a foot.

16, I hit a driver in the front bunker in the green and knocked it out about eight feet, made that.

17, I hit an 8-iron about 21 feet, made that.

Then on 18, 62 feet, made that.


Q.  You have a 6-shot lead.  Do you have any particular strategy you're going to be looking at for tomorrow?

TOMMY ARMOUR III:   Go out and play the first hole and get after it.  No strategy.  The weather is supposed to be good tomorrow.  You can shoot low on this course.  You have to keep going.


Q.  Do you expect to sleep much tonight?

TOMMY ARMOUR III: Yes, I expect to sleep a lot.  You hit 43, and you fall asleep pretty easy. 

JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you for joining us.  Play well tomorrow. 


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT