GENUITY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 28, 2002
Tommy Armour III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 TOMMY ARMOUR: I hit some of those close, like 4 I made about a 40-footer.   9 I made about a 5-footer.  8 I 2-putted for birdie.  7 I made about 18-footer.  1, I made about an 8-footer. 

Q.   You start with 30 on the front, you start thinking a 50 number -?
TOMMY ARMOUR: I didn't start thinking 50.  I think if I would have gotten a few more I might have, but that really didn't enter my mind today. 

Q.   What was your mood when you walked off and shot a 67, 30, 37?
TOMMY ARMOUR: I played good on the back.  A couple of putts just ran right over the hole.  Bogeyed 13 and 14.  I missed the green on 13, didn't get it up-and-down.  14 I drove it in the rough.  You drive it in the rough here   -- I just laid it up from the rough on 14 and wedged it in about 10 feet and missed it.  72 holes   --

Q.   Did you like the stories done on you a couple of weeks ago?
TOMMY ARMOUR: I like a lot of it, yeah. 

Q.   Do you like your portrayal?
TOMMY ARMOUR: Accurate?  What is accurate? 

Q.   In your mind.
TOMMY ARMOUR: It was a good piece.  It was a different piece than the normal golf story.  It didn't bother me one way or the other.

Q.   You are obviously a little different than most of the guys.
TOMMY ARMOUR: Yeah, it was fine.  I thought the guy did a good job telling the story he was trying to tell.  A lot of people get labled certain things and how I am labeled, that's fine with me.  It was an enjoyable piece to read.  I don't know, what did you think? 

Q.   I don't know you that well.  I know you are an interesting guy, but there were some things that I learned about you.
TOMMY ARMOUR: I said that a lot of guys out here won't want to live the life I live and I don't want to live the life they live, so everybody is an individual.  Different people.

Q.   Did you have good vibes coming here?
TOMMY ARMOUR: Yeah, I played pretty good on the West Coast overall.  I didn't putt (inaudible), L.A. I played pretty good.  I started out the year good in Hawaii.  Yeah, I was excited to come here.

Q.   Were you at all surprised at some of the scores today, given what you thought the conditions were going to be like this morning?
TOMMY ARMOUR: No, you have got the best out here, so (laughs), you know, I thought the conditions were pretty good because  -- I think the wind from the other direction makes it play a little different, like 8 you have got a downwind par 5 and 17 and 18 play downwind, so I mean, the thing is -- 13, right-to-left wind, so, I am not surprised that the scores are low.  Are they low? 

Q.   A couple of 6s, got 5.
TOMMY ARMOUR: That happens every week no matter what the conditions are. 

Q.   But for here this is relatively cold?
TOMMY ARMOUR: It is cold, but this is what we have been playing in all year, so this is  -- we haven't really had a hot week yet, so I don't really  -- I think the guys just kind of went on.

Q.   When come out and shoot a good solid first round like you did even (inaudible) do you feel good about yourself when you go shoot a first round?
TOMMY ARMOUR: Of course.  I think everybody out here, you shoot 5, 6, 7 under the first day you feel good; try and take advantage of it. 

Q.   Does it matter hitting the ball close?
TOMMY ARMOUR: It always matters hitting the ball close.

Q.   Today did you?
TOMMY ARMOUR: I did a little bit of everything.  Some close ones and made some long putts.





End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT