KEMPER OPEN
May 29, 1999
Tommy Armour III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TOMMY ARMOUR III:  Just a good solid round.  Hit a lot of good shots.  I think I missed two fairways and two greens.  Just a lot of good shots.  Had a lot of opportunities to make birdies, made four of them, one bogey, it was -- that is kind of what I wanted to do before I went out there this morning or this afternoon. 
 

Q.  Tied for the lead.  How do you see tomorrow?  What kind of hope do you have?
 
TOMMY ARMOUR III:  Well, I hope I shoot one lower than everybody else.  I mean, you know -- I mean, I feel good.  My golf game is good.  Mentally I am good, so hopefully it will be a good day. 
 

Q.  Could you talk about what has gone on with your game the last two years, last year, and then followed it up this year with a very good start, half season or whatever, what has been the difference?
 
TOMMY ARMOUR III:  I've been working hard on my game, just, you know, I mean, other than that -- the year before I played pretty good too.  I just -- I never really had any high finishes.  I had a lot of 20ths, 18ths, 25ths and I just, you know, was just not quite getting -- I mean, I could have easily had that kind of year three years ago and then last year I just had a couple opportunities I finished 2nd and 7th a couple of times.  Then kind of played steady the rest of the year, never really finished high again, a lot of 15ths and things like that, and then this year, you know, I had lost in a playoff and finished third at Doral.  Then I took six weeks off and played good at Colonial; finished 30th, and this week, you know, here we are. 
 

Q.  Six weeks?
 
TOMMY ARMOUR III:  Six weeks? 
 

Q.  How come?
 
TOMMY ARMOUR III:  I hurt my shoulder and I was off -- I could have probably played in three or four weeks, but I wanted to make sure when I came back that I was 100% and so it wouldn't reoccur. 
 

Q.  When was the last time you had a share of the lead going into the final round?
 

Q.  Can you give us a little play-by-play on the playoff? What happened?
 
TOMMY ARMOUR III:  In Tucson? 
 

Q.  Yes.
 
TOMMY ARMOUR III:  We both hit drives down the fairway. He hit a 3-iron; I hit 4-iron.  I was about 25 feet; he was about  24 feet.  I missed mine.  He made his.  Give him the trophy.  I mean, that was about what it was. 
 

Q.  Did you give him a read on your putt?
 
TOMMY ARMOUR III:  We were pretty close to the same line, but, you know, who knows.  He might not even have looked at it or he might have looked at it.  I really didn't look at him. 
 

Q.  Is there a lot of -- seems in golf there is a lot of later maturing, even in your 30s, for guys to learn how to win or how to not back up from fifth place to 30th place the last day; is any of that true?
 
TOMMY ARMOUR III:  I won nine years ago on the Tour, so I am just -- I think I am just a better player day in, day out.  I don't make as many dumb mistakes or whatever you want to call them.  And I will play more percentage shots than I used to when I was younger.  Other than that, that is it.  And the more you play these courses, you have experience where the pins are going to be, I know where the pins are going to be tomorrow and you just know what kind of shots you have to hit. 
 

Q.  (inaudible) (Refering to Beem) Rookie on this Tour, never been in this position.  Do you sort of lick your chops?
 
TOMMY ARMOUR III:  I am not even worried about him.  I am going to go out and play the golf course tomorrow and I have got to -- I think tomorrow is going to be the same kind of weather as today, so pretty much I know where the pins are going to be.  I am just going to go over the round in my head tonight and just come out and try and execute.  You really can't worry about what everybody else is doing.  You just have to take care of yourself. 
 

Q.  About the half million your last year, the good year this year, are you getting to the point now where wins are important to you or is it still, let's play?
 
TOMMY ARMOUR III:  I think to anybody on the Tour, wins are always important.  Yeah, I mean, there is always a clock ticking, you know, each day we live is one less day, but -- yeah, a win would be important right now. 
 
TOMMY ARMOUR III:  Hit driver, pitching wedge about 15, 16 feet, made it.  6, I hit driver, 2-iron a little bit long past the green, chipped it up to about eight feet, made it.  13, I hit driver, 2-iron on the green, from -- 2-putted from about 60 feet, on the front right, pin was back left.  16, I hit it in the left rough a little bit.  Hit kind of a hot shot, came out, went over the green and hit a pretty good shot, it just -- you know, picked up speed coming down that hill and rolled all the way back down off the hill -- I mean, off the green down, and that shot was actually a little tougher than the first one - I mean, it felt like that the way it looked and everything.  17, hit 7-iron about three feet, but I had a lot of good  opportunities all day.  I mean, I had an -- if I had a hot putting round I would have shot three or four less, but hit a lot of good shots.  Maybe that will be tomorrow. 
 

Q.  Under the gun a couple of times this year.  Are there any things that you try to do in final rounds when you are close, walk slower?
 
TOMMY ARMOUR III:  Just try and stay focused on what I am doing.  Stay in the present.  There is no real secrets to it. Just got to do what you are doing. 
 

Q.  But staying in the present is even hard for hackers?
 
TOMMY ARMOUR III:  Staying in the present is hard for anybody doing anything.  I mean, a lot of people in here are already thinking about what they are going to eat tonight. 
 

Q.  Can find many ways to aggravate ourselves?
 
TOMMY ARMOUR III:  Right.  Execute a shot at a time and I mean, you hear it, but doing it is the fun part. 
 

Q.  Having a good time?  Seems like you are so totally cavalier about it; not in a bad way --
 
TOMMY ARMOUR III:  I am relaxed.  I feel good out there. I have been about -- few years ago I changed a few things and after I realized what they were doing and what they were producing; I knew that things were going to get a lot better. This is where I started a few years ago and this is what I wanted to do and here I am.  So I am enjoying it. 
 

Q.  You said this is the fun part.  Would you have said that in 1990 when you won or was it still a lot more strain then?
 
TOMMY ARMOUR III:  It was fun then.  Golf has always been fun to me.  It is something that I have always enjoyed doing.  I have done it my first year was 1982 and I have always enjoyed it. I don't want to do anything else and so -- my game was kind of teetering between good and mediocre and I have just sat down and took about two months and figured out what I needed to do to get it to where I wasn't mediocre. 
 

Q.  What year was that?
 
TOMMY ARMOUR III:  It was like -- early '90s.  Late 1996, early 1997. 
 

Q.  You said you changed a few things.  What exactly?
 
TOMMY ARMOUR III:  Just the way I approached it.  There are little subtle things that when you put them altogether -- you can't I can't really put my finger -- more just the change of state of mind and just what I was doing, what I wanted to do. 
 

Q.  Anything off the course?  Was it all on the course?
 
TOMMY ARMOUR III:  Any time you make changes you are going to make them in your life and in situations and, you know, off and on.  I mean, it was nothing really drastic at any point or any area.  It was just a lot of different things where just -- you can't really put your finger on it.  It is just something you know inside.  
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT