KEMPER OPEN
May 28, 1999
Tommy Armour III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TOMMY ARMOUR III:  No problem.  Dozing over there. 
 
TOMMY ARMOUR III:  I just played real solid, great pars, three birdies, 15 pars.  It was a nice round of golf.  I am looking forward to playing the weekend. 
 

Q.  Can you talk about the course, how it is playing?
 
TOMMY ARMOUR III:  It is playing a little different than it did with the zoysia grass.  It is actually playing better because you are getting better lies in the fairways.  As far as that goes.  And the wind is kind of swirling down the valley a little bit, on the holes that are elevated I mean, pretty much get a definite direction of the breeze, but down through that, it swirls around a little bit.  The greens are getting faster.  Quick, quick poa annuas not a bad surface to play on. 
 

Q.  There is extra stroke or two because of the change in the grass, but is that change for the better; do you like --
 
TOMMY ARMOUR III:  An extra stroke or two? 
 

Q.  The course is longer, I mean --
 
TOMMY ARMOUR III:  Yeah, but you are getting better lies in the fairways, so I don't really know if it is a stroke or two. Maybe you are hitting one more club.  Out here hitting one more club doesn't matter, 8-iron or 7-iron, I mean, 5-iron or 4-iron, as I say, these guys are good. 
 

Q.  What is it about this particular course that you like?
 
TOMMY ARMOUR III:  I just like it.  I like seeing my shots when I am going.  I just play well here.  Other than that I really couldn't tell you. 
 

Q.  With the way the course is playing what gives you the best chance the next two days?
 
TOMMY ARMOUR III:  What gives me -- 
 

Q.  Yeah, the way you played....
 
TOMMY ARMOUR III:  To shoot the lowest score (laughs). You know, just hitting a lot of -- you got to drive it in the fairway here this week.  I mean, that is a must.  You have to do that because the rough is pretty thick.  Going to be patient; try and hit a lot of solid shots.  I think when the wind swirls the more solid you hit the ball the better off you are going to be.  I don't think -- unless somebody runs away, I don't think it is going to take a lot under par to win this tournament. 
 

Q.  What would it take for somebody to run away with it the way everybody has played to this point? 
 
TOMMY ARMOUR III:  The hot putter.  That is what it always turns into.  Being that the greens are pretty quick and stuff, I don't think anybody is really going to make a ton of putts. 
 

Q.  Can we hear about your three birdies?
 
TOMMY ARMOUR III:  Birdied 2, hit driver, driver, right front of the green, chipped up about 15 feet.  Made it.  10, I hit 3-wood, sand wedge about 25 feet, behind the hole, made it.  And then 14, I hit 3-iron had sand wedge about eight feet, made it.  I had a lot a couple of putts that lipped out pretty hard, a lot of putts that looked good rolling up to the hole and didn't go in.  I mean, I played pretty solid golf. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT