DORAL-RYDER OPEN
March 4, 1999
Tommy Armour III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TOMMY ARMOUR III:   One, made bogey, so that was the way I started the day.  It wasn't such a good start. I birdied, made a couple of good par putts on two -- two and four.  Then on 6, I made birdie.  Hit it about 5 inches from the hole. 
 
TOMMY ARMOUR III:   Pitching wedge. 
 
TOMMY ARMOUR III:   I pulled it in the left bunker, hit the lip coming out.  Hit it from there left of the green hit it up about twelve feet, missed it.  9, hit 7-iron about 18 feet from the hole, made the putt.  10, I missed about a five-footer for birdie.  11, I hit it about four feet.  12, I hit it about five feet.  14, just hit it just long about 20 feet from the hole, made that. 
 

Q.  20 feet behind the hole?
 
TOMMY ARMOUR III:   Behind and the left of the hole.  16, I hit it about five feet -- about eight feet, made that.  I hit a pitching wedge. 
 
TOMMY ARMOUR III:   8-iron. 
 

Q.  Did you have birdie shot at the last two holes?
 
TOMMY ARMOUR III:   Actually I got it up-and-down from about 75 yards on 17 for par.  Hit a sand wedge.  It hit the pin; went about three feet.  Then 18, I had about a 20-footer for birdie. 
 

Q.  The wind died down this afternoon?
 
TOMMY ARMOUR III:   Yes, from when we started, yes. 
 

Q.  Can you talk about the state of your game, what seems to have triggered it last year and really playing well again this year?
 
TOMMY ARMOUR III:   I have just been working on my game and basically just -- that is -- just working on it. 
 

Q.  No secrets?
 
TOMMY ARMOUR III:   No secrets.  Callouses.  (laughs). 
 

Q.  Have you had any high finishes here at Doral?
 
TOMMY ARMOUR III:   Not really, no. 
 

Q.  You like this course?
 
TOMMY ARMOUR III:   I do.  I haven't played in a few years here.  Last year I was in the hospital.  A week after L.A. I went in the hospital for about a week, so I withdrew.  
 

Q.  Last year?
 
TOMMY ARMOUR III:   Yes. 
 

Q.  What for?
 
TOMMY ARMOUR III:   I had an infected jaw and it was -- 
 

Q.  Can you talk about when you won in 1990 did you expect that would be the first of many or how hard has it been to win again?
 
TOMMY ARMOUR III:   I mean, you always -- when you win one, you expect your going to win two, so, yeah, but I haven't yet, so that is the way it is. 
 

Q.  Tell us a little bit about last week, what happened right at the end?
 
TOMMY ARMOUR III:   You know, I really didn't watch the scoreboard that much and I was on the 17th tee and I looked over to see -- actually 16 I looked at the scoreboard and I was 11-under and leader was 14, so, I mean earlier in the round I was leading by a shot or two.  I had gotten to 13-under.  Then I made a couple of bogeys and I missed some good birdie putts so I figure I was leading at that point.  I was 11-under and I had missed a couple of 12, 15-footers for birdie and then on 16 I saw 14-under was leading, so I figured try and make a birdie or two coming in, get some money and get out-of-town because -- then on the 17th tee when we were standing there waiting for the group in front of us, I looked over and it said 12-under.  I knew he double bogeyed the last hole then.  I hit it about five inches from the hole 
 and -- 
 

Q.  With what?
 
TOMMY ARMOUR III:   5-iron.  Then I parred 18. 
 

Q.  What is that like when you stand there and you think you are -- you have got to rush, then you are three out of it with three to go, then all of a sudden you look and you are right back in it?
 
TOMMY ARMOUR III:   You feel fortunate.  Gabriel, he lost the tournament and then he won it back. 
 

Q.  The playoff he --
 
TOMMY ARMOUR III:   He made about a 30-footer for birdie and I missed about a 35-footer before he did. 
 

Q.  Do you come to the next tournament with disappointment when you go through that or with momentum?
 
TOMMY ARMOUR III:   Well, yeah, with some disappointment because, you know, in so many years I have played the TOUR, I have only won one tournament so, yeah, there is disappointment.  So knew -- I am playing well, so I mean it left tournaments before with disappointment, so it wasn't -- I mean, that is the one thing about golf that I have only won one time on the TOUR and I don't know how many tournaments I have played in, 350 or 400, whatever it is where, you know, NBA and baseball, they get a win every once in a while.  So, they get that instant gratification for winning. I won a couple of Nike events a couple years ago, but I mean that is not like winning out here. 
 

Q.  Aside from callouses you got off to a great start last year, you weren't fully exempt; you played your way on.  What did that do to you mentally? 
 
TOMMY ARMOUR III:   The yeah before I had played pretty well.  I never really finished strong in a tournament.  I had made a lot of cuts.  I finished 18th and 12th and 17th and 25th a lot and just a shot here and there and I would have had the year like last year, the year before as well.  So, I mean, I finished 131 on the money list, so I mean, I wasn't -- I was excited to play the next year.  I mean, a lot of guys are saying -- then I went to the TOUR school and missed, obviously didn't make me happy, but I knew I was in a good situation because I was, you know, because a few guys had gotten their cards, so I was only two after the TOUR school so I knew I was going to play in a lot of golf tournaments and -- so went to a Nike event the first week of the year, last year I finished third, the next week I went to Phoenix and finished second so, basically after I finished second at Phoenix, I knew I was going to play a lot.  I knew I would get hopefully some invitations and then a couple weeks later I finished like 5th or 6th in San Diego and then a couple weeks later I was leading L.A., going in the last round, and finished 6th there.  Actually got sick that week and had to spend the week in the hospital the following -- but I knew I was playing good.  It took me a while to recover from that because I had a couple of teeth extracted, I had lost like 17 pounds while I was in the hospital, 16 pounds. 
 

Q.  How long were you in the hospital?
 
TOMMY ARMOUR III:   For seven days. 
 

Q.  When did you play?  What was your next tournament after that?
 
TOMMY ARMOUR III:   Bay Hill.   I really shouldn't have played there.  I should have taken that week off.  Then I played the TPC the following week and I mean, I played good there. Finished like 35th.  But there was another one of those things where I didn't quite get out of the tournament how I played. 
 

Q.  Were you hospitalized back in L.A. or in Dallas?
 
TOMMY ARMOUR III:   In Dallas. 
 

Q.  When you come and you shoot a 67 on the first day, does your mind automatically go to thinking about winning this tournament because you are right there or has experience over the past few years kind of changed that?
 
TOMMY ARMOUR III:   Yeah, there is a lot of golf left. You still have to play the second round and third round and then the fourth round and, you know, then you start thinking about that. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT