FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 27, 1997
Tommy Armour III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TOMMY ARMOUR, III:  It was hot (Laughter.)  I played very steady for the last two days.  Actually, this is the first cut I have made, I think, in the last six tournaments, so it was nice to play this well.  It is kind of hot out there.

TOMMY ARMOUR, III:  It does drain you.  I mean, I played a steady round of golf last two days, hit a lot of smart shots, drove it in the fairway, which is what you to have do this week because that rough is deep.  There is a couple of spots I just pitched it on the fairway and got it up-and-down both times, so that was pretty good.

TOMMY ARMOUR, III:  I started on 10.  I just made about 5 straight pars.  Some good pars.  It was just solid.  And then, 15, I actually hit it in the rough, knocked it on the front of the green, made about a 50-footer.  That is where I got the round started.  Next round I hit driver, 3-wood, pitched it up about three feet.  Made that.  And, 18, actually, I hit it in the right rough pitched it out.  Hit 9-iron about eight feet and made that.  So that was one of those momentum capers.  Then 2, I hit it about three feet, with a 9-iron.  4, I bogeyed.  I hit it left of the green, pitched it about by about six feet, lipped it out.  Next hole hit driver, 3-wood, five feet, made that for eagle.  On the 3-wood, I had 253 to the hole.  6, drove it in the left rough, sort of hit it over the green.  Hit it about ten feet from there and lipped that putt out too for par.  And then 8 I hit 8-iron about four feet and made that.  Walked in from about my 22nd hole today or 21st of today.  And that was it.


Q.  You said it was hot.  I realize hot is hot.  But, is there any difference about Memphis heat from other places?

TOMMY ARMOUR, III:  The humidity is what really -- I mean, when it has rained just about every day for the last four days, so when the sun comes it turns into a sauna.  I mean, if it didn't rain, I think it would be, you know, very bearable. But, I mean, one of my playing partner started staggering the last few holes.  It is just hot.  There is not a lot of air blowing out there.  It just comes right out of that zoysia.

TOMMY ARMOUR, III:  I think you have to pace yourself more and just sort of, you know, make sure you hydrate a lot.  And, you know, just stay in the shade as much as you can.  You just got to be smart and not really exert yourself.  Don't walk all over the place.  Sort of save your energy.  Eat a lot of meals that are light.  That is what I always do with the heat and drink a lot of fluids.  Thank you.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT