MISSISSIPPI GULF RESORT CLASSIC
May 2, 2010
Tommy Armour III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   PHIL STAMBAUGH: Tommy, you shoot a final round 67, and at -10, 206, looks like you're gonna finish second. Just a few thoughts. Another tough day to play out there. Everyone struggled in spots. Talk about the rounds today and the overall event.  
 TOMMY ARMOUR III: I mean, the golf course is nice; it's very nice. The greens are a little tricky. You know, I played good today. I'm a little disappointed with it, but, you know, what can you do?   
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: Can you just sort of take us through the round. You got off to a fast start, three birdies in the first four holes.  
 TOMMY ARMOUR III: I did, and then I 3-putted 5 for par -- or 6. Actually, I missed about a 6-footer on 5 for birdie; 3-putted 6 for par; and then I pulled it a little left and hit a cart path and went unplayable; made 6; then I birdied the next hole.   
 I mean, really, 9 I hit it about ten feet and missed it; 10 I hit it about ten feet and missed it; 11 I hit it six feet; 12 I hit it eight feet; 13 I two-putted; 14 I made about a 15-footer; 15 I missed about a five-footer; 16 I missed about a 12-footer; 17 I hit it on the front of the green and rolled it up there about three feet and missed that; and then 18 I had about a 15-footer and left it short, missed it.   
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: How long was your first putt at 17?   
 TOMMY ARMOUR III: It was 60 feet. Rolled it up there three feet. I thought the putt was gonna go one way and it went the other way.  
 So, I mean, you know, the greens are a little tricky. The putts move around the hole.  
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: The overall week though, inaugural event.  
 TOMMY ARMOUR III: Couldn't have been nicer. I mean, everything was, you know, very nice. Couldn't ask for a better venue.   
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: Questions.  
  
  Q. Can you just talk about at 15 you really had everything going. That putt just kind of slide by there.   
 TOMMY ARMOUR III: Like I said, a lot of putts move around the holes around here. If you don't hit it Q on right on the button -- and, I mean, I kind of hit it where it just broke a lot more than I thought. Didn't go in.  
 Next hole, you know, had about a 15-footer up a hill and it just moved. Just barely missed it.   
 You know, I was there for every shot today and played good.   
  
  Q. On the par-3, kind of a pivotal hole, you had such a nice putt from so far away up the hill. Coming back, you had to be disappointed, I would imagine.   
 TOMMY ARMOUR III: Well, you know, great putters miss putts; bad putters miss putts? I aimed at what I wanted, looked up, and it didn't go in.   
 Tom Watson told me a long time ago, Even great putters miss putts. You know, in 54 holes you're gonna miss a putt. Obviously rather it had not been there, but I hit two good shots on the last hole. The 6-iron looked like it was gonna go in the hole. I'm sure it rolled right by the hole. I didn't...   
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: What did you hit approach into 11, 12, and the tee shot at 14?  
 TOMMY ARMOUR III: I hit sand wedge into both of those.   
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: Okay.  
 TOMMY ARMOUR III: 14 I hit 8-iron.   
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: How about overall conditions today?   
 TOMMY ARMOUR III: It was the same as every day, but it rained a little bit today where it hadn't before. But I mean, we're on the Champions Tour. Everybody's used to playing -- they've played every condition possible. I mean, we're used to it.  
  
  Q. Do you think it's just a matter of time before you break through out here?  
 TOMMY ARMOUR III: I hope so. You know, this week I just gave too many shots to the field, you know.   
 I had three three-putts during the week, and I had four penalty shots. So, you know, that's -- you know, it's giving a lot of shots away to the field. Can't do that on any tour.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT