ING NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
November 5, 2011
Paula Radcliffe
Chris Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   RICHARD FINN: We have our British winners, both at long distances and now short distances. We're always pleased and happy and so thrilled to have our good friend Paula Radcliffe here with us. Wish she was running tomorrow, but she has other things in mind, with Chris Thompson, her compatriot here. 
 Paula, if you want to say a couple of words on the run today, if you have any comments? 
 PAULA RADCLIFFE: Just Chris was running strong, and it gave him a good chance to kind of sample the New York atmosphere and the race and stuff. Hopefully it will whet his appetite for the marathon, because I think he's going to run a great marathon. 
 CHRIS THOMPSON: Yeah, you're the reason I'm thinking about it. She keeps putting it in my head.
 RICHARD FINN: Paula, after Berlin, you're just sort of resting and training now or any racing? 
 PAULA RADCLIFFE: I'm just getting back into it. I had a minor surgery after Berlin, so now I'm two weeks back running tomorrow and it's going pretty good. I'm back up to about an hour in the morning and 40 minutes at night and just building up. So not particularly fit yet, but getting there.
 RICHARD FINN: How much excitement for both of you with the London games? What are your hopes? 
 CHRIS THOMPSON: I'd like to run both the 5 and the 10. Obviously, I'll have to see over the summer. It was a massive inspiration the second and now the first place. Just being there would be amazing, but I feel fortunate enough to feel like I have aspirations from that as well. 
 So I'm looking forward to taking every result, especially things like this forward, and trying to build on that and get a flavor for winning and get a flavor for being in the front and see where it takes me. 
 To be on the podium in London would be just amazing. It would be incredible. Then to go on from there, who knows what might happen. But, yeah, it's a massive motivational boost. I'm really looking forward to putting up some miles over the next year.

 Q. We know where Paula would like to be next year in the London games and what distance. But maybe Paula you might say why you're here this week. You're here for I think a very special cause. 
 PAULA RADCLIFFE: Yeah, I'm here with the Peace and Sport Foundation, which is a great foundation I've been working with for about three years. It's based out of Monaco under the patronage of Prince Albert. Basically a lot of sports people around the world are trying to come together and trying to make a difference through sport. 
 I think sports are a pretty powerful medium that we all know touches so many people and can make such a difference. So we've got 20 runners running in the ING New York City Marathon for the first time to raise money. (Inaudible) and so Tegla's obviously used to running the marathon, but is a bit nervous. And our other runners are pretty inspired and motivated to try to get out there to beat Tegla, but most of all to make a difference. 
 I think as a mother, it kind of touches me the suffering of children around the world, and we feel we can make a difference through sport, And we feel that's really great.
 RICHARD FINN: We applaud Paula for all the good things she's done on the race course and off it. Chris, again, congratulations. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT