U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2018
Caleb Ramirez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So tell me about what it takes willpower-wise to survive two triple bogeys to get into match play?  
CALEB RAMIREZ: A lot of mental strength.  Definitely tested mentally more than anything.  Just two bad swings honestly on those triple bogeys and then kind of compounded a couple mistakes on top of that.   
But I knew I was playing well.  My putter was hot for the first two rounds, and so I knew if I could just get the ball on the green I would be fine after those triple bogeys.   
But definitely this one on 6 maybe or --   
 Q.  5.  
CALEB RAMIREZ: 5, yeah.  That one, I didn't know where the cut line was at that point.  After that one I was kind of nervous a little bit and I stepped up, hit a nice tee shot, and kind of calmed down from there.  Just like, Take it a shot at a time.  You made it this far up to this point.  You'll be fine from here.   
Main thing is just mentally it wears you out.  These courses are very difficult and very firm.  You can hit some good shots in here, or what you think are good shots, and they can end up in not-so-great places up on these greens with all the slopes that go on.   
So you just kind of have to go with the flow of things.   
 Q.  Forgetting all that now; you're back to zero and start in match play.  What's that going to be like now?  
CALEB RAMIREZ: It's going to be definitely a new experience.  I'm excited for it.  I had good match play scores the first two rounds.  A lot of birdies.  Just triple bogeys, which those are fine in match play.  Pick up the next hole.   
Starting with clean slate is definitely nice.  I don't know who I'm going to play tomorrow obviously.  Whoever it is, just try to get the ball in the hole faster than they do.   
 Q.  You've seen Pebble Beach a couple times now.  How do you think that sets up for match play?  
CALEB RAMIREZ: It sets up -- there are birdie holes out there.  Definitely the first seven holes are -- yeah, about first seven holes you can really make some birdies in there.   
And then kind of midway I think you just kind of hang on.   
But it all depends.  I mean, all great players are here, so you obviously got to go out and play really solid golf if you want to move on in match play.   
For me, just not really deviate from my game plan that I've had.  It's treated me well this far, and I think it'll be fine in match play.   
 Q.  Has your putter been your strength the first two days?  
CALEB RAMIREZ: Definitely.  Definitely.  I made a lot putts, a lot of birdie putts, a lot of par putts, and so I think if I can keep that rolling into match play it's definitely going to be a huge benefit for me.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT