U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2018
Caleb Ramirez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  2-under through 17 and then a little trouble at 18; how did you find the golf course?  
CALEB RAMIREZ: It's playing very difficult in my opinion.  It's kind of tough to judge the wind going through a couple of those holes.  It makes it a lot easier to hit the fairway off the tee, which I was able to do on some holes.  Some holes I was in the rough and made it very difficult to scramble for par, depending on where you left your approach.  But for the most part, the course is -- it's just a day you kind of want to try to hit the fat part of the green, try to two-putt, walk out and be happy with it.  Par is definitely your friend out here today in my opinion.  Fortunately for me, I was able to make a couple putts.  Putter got hot a little bit there in the middle of the round, and that's kind of what helped me out today very much.  Obviously a poor ending, but I think the scores that we see out here is just a testament to these golf courses and how they hold up in championship play.   
 Q.  Does the fact that you're playing 18 at Pebble at 2-under, that's a little bit tougher tee shot, then is that what caused the problem?  
CALEB RAMIREZ: No, I've hit that tee shot a couple of times before, and unfortunately I've done that before, quick little left into the hazard.  But that's golf.  You can't go back and change anything.  But look forward to tomorrow, and hopefully get into match play.   
 Q.  With the scores as they are, you play solid and somewhere near par, you've probably got a good fighting chance to get into match play, right?  
CALEB RAMIREZ: Yeah, just go out and play as you would back home I say.  Makes it a lot easier when you're not worried about the stress of the atmosphere, kind of the U.S. Am whole persona that's going on here.  You think about it too much, you might get in your own head.  So I just try to pretend like I'm back home playing golf, just try to put some free-flowing swings on some golf shots, and I think if I can do that tomorrow, I'll be in good shape.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT