FEDEX ORANGE BOWL: SOUTHERN CAROLINA v OKLAHOMA
January 2, 2005
Antonio Perkins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Do you look at this game as redemption, or do you have to approach this game as a completely different entity?

ANTONIO PERKINS:  I don't think it would be redemption.  It poses another big challenge for us, to go out there and compete against them.

Q.  Do you pay attention when a job opens up and people say Coach Stoops is a candidate?  Do you guys even pay attention to that?

ANTONIO PERKINS:  I really don't pay attention.  He has a great program here and he has a lot of years coming.  We don't pay attention to that because we know he's going to stick around for the big games.

Q.  What about the Florida job this year?  I think they had three candidates that weren't interested.  Were you guys ever concerned about that, that he might go to Florida?

ANTONIO PERKINS:  I don't think we were concerned about that.  He likes the program here and likes being around the players.  The way he founded this program, it's an opportunity for him to stay here.

Q.  So you don't think he's going to go to another college?

ANTONIO PERKINS:  I wouldn't say that, but I don't see it happening any time soon.

Q.  As a veteran of these type of games, what advice could you give some of the freshmen that are going to impact your team?  You guys have a kicker who hasn't been on this stage yet.  What advice would you give to him?

ANTONIO PERKINS:  I can't give any advice because I don't kick the ball.  I'm not going to say anything to him.  He's going to get his job done.  He's here on scholarship like everyone else.  He'll make a play when it comes down to it.

Q.  You have confidence in him?

ANTONIO PERKINS:  I have confidence in all our players.  He's the kicker to go in and he'll get the job done.

Q.  Do you and the rest of your teammates sort of feel like it's your job to not put him in that situation, to have a lead late in the game so he doesn't have to make that big kick?

ANTONIO PERKINS:  I wouldn't say that.  Every kick to him is going to be a big kick.  An extra point is a big kick.  You see the game last year was 35-34 Texas winning, so every play is big.

Q.  You mentioned that Texas game.  Have you seen any of the other bowl games this week?  There have been some exciting finishes. 

ANTONIO PERKINS:  I caught the tail end last night of the Rose Bowl, but that's about it.

Q.  What can you take from a game like that?  What does that say to you about how you have to finish in these games?

ANTONIO PERKINS:  It comes down to the best teams down to the end.  You never know what the last play is, so you've got to finish the game.  Everybody knows that. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT