ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 7, 2020
Joanna Bernabei-McNamee
Emma Guy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
NC State - 82, Boston College - 75   
THE MODERATOR: It's my pleasure to introduce from Boston College head coach Joanna Bernabie-McNamee and student-athlete Emma Guy. Coach?   
JOANNA BERNABEI-MCNAMEE: All I can say is I love, absolutely love the fight in our team. I think it could have been so easy after the bad second quarter that we had for us to kind of fold and just hang it up, but there was no such thing.   
These ladies have grit. They have heart. It comes down to, and I'm sure you guys all take note, our bench, you know, they deserve a big shout out, Mimi, Bolden-Morris, Sydney Lowery, Clara Ford, Jaelyn Batts got in a little bit. They cheered their butt off and they had these ladies back and on the court I felt like we left our blood, sweat and tears in that second half.   
I just hope we get to show the NCAA tournament what we're made of because I'm proud of the fight these ladies had.   
 Q.  For both of you: What happened in the second quarter? You guys shot lights out in the first. Did it even out or did something change defensively that you didn't adjust to?  
JOANNA BERNABEI-MCNAMEE: I think in the first quarter we traded baskets the whole quarter. They were kind of lights out and we were kind of lights out. In the second quarter I think we continued not to play the defense that we're capable of playing, and then we also didn't make shots. I think that compounded on each other and made for just a really terrible second quarter.   
On top of that, and I challenged them at halftime, I wasn't happy with what we looked like on the boards and neither were they. They know what they're made of and capable of and we weren't doing it, I think we had 2 offensive boards in the first half, and we ended up with 12 so much better in the second half. NC State is an awesome team. They play hard. They play the right way and they get after it and we in that second quarter didn't necessarily step up to the challenge that we needed to and it really started because we weren't making shots and that trickled into our defense which we are usually not like that. We cleared up that in the second half.   
THE MODERATOR: Thanks to both of you. We hope to see you in the NCAA.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT