MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 10, 2017
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








E. BOUCHARD/A. Kerber
6-3, 5-0 (ret.)
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Can you tell us what the problem is, when you felt this.
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I don't know what's exactly.  I know it's the left hamstring.  I just felt it in the last game.  I think it was not the last point, but the point, like, before.  So yeah.
I think now I will just check it.  I will check it maybe tonight or tomorrow.  I will see.  I hope it's not too serious.  But, yeah, I can feel it a little bit.
Q. Would you actually consider leaving Rome altogether and just concentrating on the French if it's that painful?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: This is a tough question right now.  I mean, first of all I have to check what it is exactly, how bad it is.  If it's just like muscles or if it's more.  If it's a stretch or a tightness or whatever.
So I don't know exactly what it is.  But for sure I will check it now with my doctors and everybody, with my physio, then I will decide, yeah, just last minute.
I am not thinking now, like, about the future.  It's just now what's happened.  I mean, it's important that I'm healthy.
I think it was a good decision to stop because I think it's just start, yeah.
Q. On the point where you did feel it, did you feel it in the serve when you landed or in the rally?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I felt it in the rally, like, yeah, the last game.  I feel it after the rally.  During the rally actually.  Then the last point when I served, I was sure I cannot play more because I'm actually not the person who is retiring so often.  When I feel it, it's something.
But I hope it's not too serious.  So I will see it in the next hours or days.
Q. Just to be clear, in your last match, it was a hard match.  You looked quite tired at the end.  You said you felt okay.  You don't think there's any residual effect?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I don't know.  I don't know.  I mean, after the match in the second round, of course I felt a little bit the tightness on my body.  But you don't know if it's coming from there.  I mean, it was just the point where I was feeling it.
Yeah, I mean, clay, it's actually not my best surface.  I have no expectation any more on this surface.  I mean, there are two more tournaments for me, I hope.  We will see what's happen next week.
Yeah, first of all I will try to get healthy again and be really 100% fit to going on court again.
Q. You were emotional leaving the court.  Is it the scare of the injury or the frustration of this season maybe that hasn't gone exactly the wanted you it to?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: You know, this season is a completely new season.  I have so many things that I learned, that's new for me.  There are always every week new challenges for me.
For me, actually I'm trying to taking the positive things.  It's maybe not the season I was wishing before.  But still, I mean, I learned so much.  It's a new experience.  This season is still going on.  There are still three more Grand Slams to coming, a few more big tournaments.
So I'm not really worry about this right now.  I'll thinking about what's going on and how I will feel in the next days.
Q. Before you felt the injury, can you talk about maybe what you struggled with this the match, what you take out of it?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think the match was really difficult because it was really windy.  I couldn't find my game, yeah, the way I'm playing.  I mean, it was a completely different match than I played the matches before.
But still I think I have to get ready in the next days, weeks, to being really hundred percent fit body-wise, fitness-wise, everything for Paris.  This is my main goal.
Q. When you were warming up and practicing, it was a bit cooler today, very windy outside.  Did you get a sense you weren't feeling the ball out on the practice courts and that transitioned onto the match court?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Actually, it was more when I went on the match court.  When I was warming up, it was quite windy, but not like that.  Yeah, of course it's getting cooler if it's later.  So it was a little bit difficult to get in the match and finding the rhythm.
She plays actually not bad.  She plays good.  She was going for it.  She hits the ball really fast.  Still, I mean, yeah, I couldn't find the way because it was, yeah, different.  The conditions are little bit different than the last days.  But that's not the excuse, so...






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT