MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 8, 2017
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. KERBER/K. Siniakova   
6-2, 1-6, 7-5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  That looked like a really tough battle.  You looked pretty exhausted in the second set when Siniakova came back.  How were you feeling out there?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think it was from my side a really up-and-down match.  I played really good in the first set, then in the second set the first few games at the beginning of the second set, it was really close.   
Then she started playing better.  I mean, she started to moving good, bring a lot of balls back.  I did, yeah, too many mistakes in the second set.  In the third set, I was just trying to finding my game back.   
But, yeah, she played a good match, I think.  I think she played one of the best matches in this year.  But, yeah, I was trying at the end coming back.  I know that I can come back and winning matches like that when I'm down.  So that was actually what was going on in my mind in the third set.   
 Q.  Why are you doing better this year?  Last year wasn't that good for you.  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I don't know.  I think this clay season, this year is a little bit different.  I played just one match in Stuttgart.  I had more time to, yeah, getting ready on the clay court season outdoors.   
Yeah, maybe this year the clay court season will be a little bit different than last year, but it can be just better (smiling).   
 Q.  Looking ahead to the next round, you could possibly face Maria Sharapova.  What are your thoughts on her and that upcoming potential match?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I will wait the match, first of all, and then I will think about who I will play.  But, you know, actually I'm not looking ahead the draws.  I mean, next opponent, it's the next day, next match here for me.   
I'm just looking forward more on my side.  I'm trying to having a lot of matches, good matches, also tough matches like today, before Paris.  This is actually the goal I have in the next few weeks.   
 Q.  It was interesting you didn't bring Torben out in the second set.  Seemed like you wanted to figure things out yourself.  Was that a conscious plan?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yes, because I know the plan.  It was not that I was, like, a little bit with my mind somewhere.  I really know my plan.   
I couldn't do it in the second set, so that's why I think it was the right decision just trying to do it by myself.  We spoke before.   
Yeah, I think it's good to have him, like, in case.  But, yeah, he was sitting out there.  Yeah, he knows how I am.  It was actually my decision.   
 Q.  In the third set, once you found yourself in the scoreline, what was your mentality?  Were you frustrated?  Were you positive?  Were you over it?  Where was your mind as you tried to get back?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: You know, I was actually not thinking too much about the score because I know that I can change matches like that and coming back.  That was more on my mind.   
Today it's a new chance to do the same, to coming back when I'm down in a third set.  That was a challenge for me, you know.  I was trying to staying still positive, playing point by point.  I was not looking ahead or back, just trying to staying in the moment there, and fighting.  I mean, moving good.  I know that I can change it, yeah, and taking the challenge today.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT