BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 13, 2017
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. KERBER/P. Parmentier
7-5, 3-6, 7-5
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You talked at the round table the other day about dealing with pressure and how you have kind of been able to get past that.  When you get in a match like that today, are there certain things that kick in?  Are there reminders or devices that you kind of use to reinforce what you've learned?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: You know, when you are in a match like this, you are not thinking about pressure or whatever.  I mean, you are there and you are doing everything to win matches like this.  This is why we are on court, and this is why I practicing a lot and doing my fitness stuff that, yeah, that I can run forever, actually, on court, and it doesn't matter if it's, like, so hot or not.
So this is what I was thinking on court to really playing point by point and trying to win the match or, like, still when I'm -- today, like, when I was 1-4 down in the third set, still to believe that I can change matches like this.  And my shoulders, so many times in the last few years, this was actually more on my mind, that pressure.
Q. It seemed like you were struggling a little bit with the amount of the height of the ball that she was giving you.  Is that pretty accurate?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I mean, she is really tricky opponent.  I mean, she played a lot of spin, especially from the forehand side.  So I think that I need a little bit time to get used to it.
And she was really playing good.  I think we both play on a really high level.  I mean, it was completely different match than I played here on my first round.
Q. What did you think you did or what adjustments did you make down 1-4 that helped you turn it around?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think I was starting to believing in myself again and trying to taking this challenge and trying to playing point by point and not thinking what has happened before.  Just going for it and trying to move in good, bring a lot of balls back, and going for it when I have the chance.
Q. Overall, just how comfortable are you with your game right now?  Do you feel like you're finding your rhythm at all?  How are you feeling about yourself?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think I'm feeling good.  I mean, I played -- actually, it was a good match also from her.  So I'm feeling not bad.  I played good my first match.
I played good also today.  Was a little bit up and down, but still I played a consistent match.  And, yeah, I'm feeling good.  I have my rhythm, so I'm really looking forward to play tomorrow the next round.
Q. You had one game in the first set that lasted -- I think they said it lasted, like, 11-minutes-something.  The one with -- I think you had...
A. I think we had a lot of...
Q. How do you handle that?  I mean, as someone who has never played on your level, I mean, how do you deal with that when it's going back and forth like that and trying to stay in the moment?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think you are not thinking too much in this moment.  You are just staying there, and you play point by point.  And it's always like -- she won one on me, and then it's like always this.  11 minutes, actually.
But you just try to, when you have the chance, playing your tennis, but it's more like you just doing it.  You are not thinking.  I mean, there's no time to thinking too much about the situation.  I can think now when I have time.
Q. Round of 16 is a good result for you.  I know you made the semifinals, but it's been a struggle to get wins at this tournament.  Why do you think that has been the case in the past?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I don't know.  I mean, I have no idea why, but this year I just can say -- I mean, I'm feeling good this year, and, of course, I mean, it's the best result since the last three years I have here and I'm still in the tournament.  That's what counts.
But, yeah, I don't know why I was not playing so well, in the last few years here.  I mean, I'm not thinking about this anymore, so...
Q. Do you find that when you play on this court, do you find that it's maybe too slow or the kick off the court, the spin that people can get on the court can be problematic?
A. I think it's everything because the conditions are also very tough here.  When you play day session, it's really, really hot.  You play night session, it's a little bit cooler and could be really cold.  The balls are flying a little bit different, as well.
So it's really depending what time you are playing, and, of course, the courts are really slow, a little bit slower than maybe a few other tournaments.  But that's why I came here also a little bit earlier, to prepare for this tournament where I was not playing so well in the last years.  And, yeah, now I think I played a little bit better.
Q. Looking ahead to your next match...
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I think it will be another good match against Vesnina.  I mean, I think we played -- I don't know when the last time.  Long time ago.  But, yeah, I think it's another challenge and I think it will be a good match.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT