DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 23, 2017
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. KERBER/A. Konjuh
6-3, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You must be pleased with that.
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah.  I mean, I'm really happy about the match today again.  I mean, it was a tough one, because Ana is a tough opponent.  She's going for it.  You have to play until the last point.
Yeah, it's nice to get through in two sets.
Q. What pleased you most about your overall performance?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I was trying to hit the balls and to being aggressive.  Yeah, I was trying just to focusing on myself and trying to take the rhythm from the last days and this match tonight.  And it worked, so it's nice to be in the semis.
Q. Have you ever hit a right-handed volley in a match before?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I don't think so (smiling).  I think this point -- yeah, I have no idea.  I just react, so it was just maybe a little bit luck, as well.
Q. You're naturally right-handed?  You just play left-handed?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I'm naturally right.  Maybe that helps me in this point.
Q. Can you talk about playing Svitolina again?  Looking for some revenge from Brisbane?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I think it will be a tough match again.  I think we will have a lot of rallies.  I have to be aggressive and just like the last days here.  I mean, I have to be really focused on my game, on my rhythm.  Just trying to enjoy the next match here on the centre court, and of course I will try to go out there and to win another match here.
Q. Looking back on that match in Brisbane against her, what do you think was the difference?  Because you played a pretty good match, but in the end...
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think in Brisbane, it was just the first tournament of the year.  I was just trying to get few matches there.  And of course it was a pretty good match from both of us.  She won like the important moments in Brisbane.
So I will just trying to take the positive things from the match.  I will talk to my coach, and, yeah, go out there tomorrow and take the new challenge.
Q. Does this feel like more of the old Angie, like this week, do you feel that you're in rhythm, tournament rhythm, match rhythm, everything?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I think it's coming.  You know, it's good to have a lot of matches right now here.  Yeah, I play good tennis again.  I try to just focusing on my game again and try to enjoy the tennis.
I think it's coming step by step.  I think I am, yeah, coming back to my good tennis.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT