DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 24, 2017
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
E. SVITOLINA/A. Kerber   
6-3, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  It's hard to win a match on one leg, isn't it?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah.  It was, yeah, a tough match.  I don't know what's with my knee now, but I feel pain a little bit.   
Yeah, but at the end, I tried my best.  This is how I am, and I'm always trying my best until the end.   
 Q.  At one point you took the tape off.  Then you went out and put it back on.  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, because it was not sticking enough.  That's why it came out.   
 Q.  You started the match very well, and then at what point did you kind of start to feel pain in the knee?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I was feeling it at the beginning a little bit, and then it came more and more.  But I was trying, you know, to not thinking too much about this and just going through it.   
Yeah, at the end, I mean, I tried my best.  I'm always trying to stay on court and not -- yeah, getting over the pain.   
 Q.  That little rain delay and everything, and then it seemed like you might get it back there for a while and stuff.  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think it's just -- I mean, the last few days it was always raining a little bit, and we stopped for few minutes and then we went on.   
So I think that was -- yeah, I don't think that this was the reason that I came back or no, whatever.   
 Q.  Are you going to have the injury scanned, really thoroughly checked?  You know, the scanner?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Now?   
 Q.  Yeah.  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I don't know yet.  I just -- I don't know actually.  I mean, I just came out from the court, so I just change.  Yeah, we will see in the next days.  I don't know.   
 Q.  What do you take out of this week?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, you know, this was for sure not the best day for me, but at the end I will try to forget the match as soon as possible and taking, yeah, the positive things from this tournament that I find the rhythm back, that I was able to come back and playing good tennis again, winning matches against good players.   
This is what counts for me, and now I will go back home for a few days.  We will see what's going on with my knee, and then the next one is Indian Wells.   
 Q.  Is it a disappointment that you won't be playing for the No. 1, or not that important?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: You know, I'm not thinking about this.  I mean, everybody is writing or asking or whatever, but for me, I know how it feels to be No. 1.  I reach it once, and for sure I will try to get back there.   
But for me it's really important to be healthy, and at the end, if I play consistent the next weeks or months, then we will see what's happen then, but for the moment, I mean, I'm not looking about the number before my name, actually.   
 Q.  Setting aside the injury, do you consider this week a step forward for you in this season?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, for sure.  I mean, absolutely, that I get like, I don't know, maybe one, two steps forward again.   
I think, yeah, I will do the same.  I will be practicing and I will stay calm and positive like I stayed in the last few weeks, and, yeah, just looking forward to the next big tournaments there, yeah, before us.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT