DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 22, 2017
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. KERBER/Monica Puig   
6-2, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Very solid performance, wasn't it?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I mean, I was feeling good from the first point.  It's always tough to play against Monica, especially after our last match.   
Yeah, I was trying to play my game.  I'm really happy about how I played today.   
 Q.  What do you think you did best today?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think I was really trying to stay focused on every single point and trying to moving good, bring a lot of balls back.   
Just, you know, thinking about my game, about my rhythm, and not thinking too much about my opponent tonight.   
 Q.  About that last match, did you have to try to keep that out of your mind or did you use that as motivation, or it didn't have any play at all?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: No, I was really not thinking too much about our final in Rio, because it was a completely totally different match than today.   
In Rio, like I said, I mean, she really deserved to win because she played one of her best matches I remember.   
Yeah, and tonight it was a new match, new challenge for me.  So I was focusing more on the day today than looking back to the last match.   
 Q.  You hadn't necessarily done well here in the past, so do you finally feel comfortable here and on these courts?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I think I was never playing good here, I don't know why, but this year I feeling good from the beginning.   
Yeah, I had great practice.  I was a little bit sick, like, last week.  So that's why I'm happy that I find my rhythm back.  Yeah, enjoying the tennis on court again.   
 Q.  Thoughts on your next appointment, Ana Konjuh?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think it will be another tough match.  I mean, she hitting the balls very hard.  We played, I don't know, two or one time in the past.   
So I know it will be a tough one, but still I'm ready.  I'm in the quarters here for my first time, so I will try to enjoy it.   
 Q.  Did you feel any different before the tournament started, like taking the court for your first round different than, you know, the last couple tournaments you have had this season?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: It was a little bit different, because I was not sure how I was feeling on court because of the last week, and that's why that was a little bit different.   
But, I mean, I was trying, you know, just going out here and trying to make the transition like I was practicing on the match, because I was practicing good in the last few weeks and also in the last few months.   
So that's why I was actually, yeah, fine to coming here with my first match.   
 Q.  Did you feel any less pressure, less burden, maybe, now that January is over, and, you know, you can kind of just move on?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: You know, I think I learned a lot from the last few weeks.  It was a completely different situation, Australia.  Also, in Doha.  And here it's also a little bit different than two years ago when I was here the last time.   
So that's why I was really trying to, you know, going for it and just trying to enjoying it again and not thinking too much, just trying to play my tennis.   
So, of course, it was not so easy because of the last weeks.  But, yeah, I think I learned, and this is what I take the positive things.   
 Q.  The fact that there is a hotel here onsite, is that a plus or a minus?  Because it also doesn't give you any chance to leave any of this and see or have dinner somewhere.  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Of course it's different, but I take my time to get out.  I mean, we went to the Dinner in the Sky, went to Dubai Mall once.  I need my time off.   
So at the end it's nice that the hotel is here.  We just can go to the room.  We have everything onsite so I like it, actually.   
 Q.  What do you like about Dubai?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Everything.  I think you can do everything here.  I mean, yeah, this is a city where, yeah, whatever you want you can do it here.   
Normally the weather is nice here, so that's why I like Dubai, as well.  It's a little bit different this year, but yeah, I like the people.  I like to being here.   
 Q.  Was the Dinner in the Sky scary, exhilarating, both?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: It was nice.  It was a new experience.  I like to being high, so on top somewhere.  So I was not scared.   
My team was a little bit scared, but, no, I was enjoying it.  (Smiling.)   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT