AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 20, 2017
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. KERBER/Kr. Pliskova
6-0, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. A great win.  How did you see it?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah.  It was better, actually.  I was feeling very good from the first point, but of course matches like this are always tough to play against opponents.  They are serving very well, and you have to bring a lot of balls back, moving good, and just going for it.
But I'm happy about my performance, yeah.
Q. How do you rate your performance or feeling this year compared to last year?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: That's tough to say.  I mean, it's completely different year this year.  It's great to have another good match on my belt and being in the fourth round again here.
Yeah, it's great.  I'm looking forward to the next one.  Yeah, I think that I find my rhythm to the tournament now.
Q. We talk a lot about the first week and the second week of a slam.  For you, as a player, do you see them as kind of two separate phases?  Does anything change for you, now that you're into the second week?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Actually, not really, because I'm trying to doing all the stuff the same, like in the first week.  And of course, I mean, the tournament, it's like two weeks, it's really long period.  But at the end, I'm trying to do the same like in the first week, but of course you have to be ready for every single match right now.  And you have to practice or relaxing, as well, in the off-days.
Yeah, I think it's the same for me, first and second week.
Q. How would you rate, overall, your first week so far?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think it was a little bit up and down, the first week.  All matches are different for me.  But I think it's good to have different matches and going through to that, to being, then, the second round.
Yeah, let's see what's the next challenge.
Q. You have Coco next, so do you see that as a similar or different opponent than the one you had to face today?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think it will be like maybe a little bit similar than today, but of course, I mean, Coco is a tough opponent.  She played good today.  I saw the match a little bit before my match.  I know that she's serving good, as well.
I have to move good, being ready, bring a lot of balls back, but also being aggressive, as well, like I can play.
Q. Do you feel like in the first week it was your defense, athleticism, that helped you navigate into your first matches into the second week?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I had a good preseason.  I was working a lot in my fitness.  It was good to know I can stay for two or three hours on court.  But, yeah, my legs are always really important for my game.
Q. What's different about being No. 1?  Do you feel like you're the hunted a little more now?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: You know, of course, I have much more things to do.  The schedule is tighter.
But at the end, I'm still the same, and I'm trying to play the same like I played last year and try to continue that.
Q. A sense of expectation, you're expected to win each time?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Not really.  I mean, I'm looking round by round, and I -- yeah, I'm ready for every single match every single day.  This is what counts, because I know that this is the only way to play good tennis, especially in two weeks.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT