BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY SUNCORP
January 5, 2017
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








E. SVITOLINA/A. Kerber
6-4, 3-6, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Losses are never any fun.  What will you take out of your Brisbane experience this year?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I think it was still a good match from both of us.  I was trying, you know, to staying in the match after the first set and just, yeah, still believing in myself.  But, I mean, at the end it was a good match.
I will try to take the positive things for the next tournament and for the next matches, of course.
Q. Is she on the same level as she was in Beijing, China Open?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think this is always tough to say.  I mean, every match is completely different.  I played few more times against her, and I won few, but I lost, as well, few matches.
I know it's always tough against her.  She's running for every ball.  We have always close matches.
Yeah, today I lost, but I hope that I can win the next match against her.
Q. Where did you feel the difference was with respect to your game?  What do you think you weren't able to do on the court today that might have made a difference?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think I was feeling actually not bad.  I was trying to playing from the first until the last point my game plan.
Of course, there are always up-and-downs during a match, but I'm feeling actually not bad.  I mean, I will just take the positive things.
Of course, I think I make like few easy mistakes during the match.  Yeah, if you play matches like that, they are just one, two, three points they are counting and they are important to win matches.
Q. What do you think it does for you playing Sydney next week?  Do you think it has any real effect for you for Australian Open?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: No, I think Grand Slams are always completely different.  Actually, doesn't matter how you play before.  I mean, you can play very the well weeks before and then you are going to the Grand Slams and it's different, but as well you can play good before and then you can play good at the Grand Slams.
So it's always tough to say, so I'm not looking like this for the Australian Open.
Q. Sydney, you'll get some more matches, or do you prefer to have a week of practice?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: We go to Sydney.  I don't know when, but, yeah, we will go to Sydney.
Q. You'd rather play matches than go to Melbourne?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Of course, it's always good to have matches, especially at the beginning of the year.  I have two good matches here.  Yeah, I will try to have a few more matches before Melbourne.
Q. The serve, seemed like you struggled with it in the first match against Ash and maybe today a little bit, as well.  Is that something you're concerned about?  Do you think it's just a rhythm issue, execution?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: You know, I'm not worried about my serve.  I mean, I know how to serve good and I know how my serve is, and there are always up-and-downs.  I know I can improve it, but, I mean, that's the second match of the year, the first tournament.
Yeah, I played a good match.  It was not a bad match.  I think we both play on the really high level tonight, so, yeah.  Next one.
Q. What's her best shot?  What was the best shot out there today that you found hard to return?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think, you know, playing against her, it's always tough because she's moving good.  So I think this is, I think, the hardest thing.
Yeah, you have to play really consistent and to going for it.  I think that I did, like, just a few more mistakes than she did.
Q. When it comes down to if you set the results aside, like win/loss, score lines or whatever, take these two matches and look at how you performed, are you pleased with kind of where you're coming out, you know, to start the 2017 season?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yes, I think I'm happy about my start.  I mean, of course I'm disappointed that I lost here in the quarters, but still, I think I'm looking forward to consistently make my game and the next matches, and I know for what I was practicing, I mean, playing on the court again with the crowd, so it's just, you know, playing the next tournaments, and, yeah, starting the year.  I mean, we're just after the first tournament.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT