NATURE VALLEY INTERNATIONAL
June 29, 2019
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Ka. PLISKOVA/A. Kerber   
6-1, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You have had a good run of matches under your feet.  Can you talk us through the start of the set?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think she played a perfect match.  I mean, she really played the whole week very well.  For me, I was trying to finding actually my game, but it just start in the second set because she really played well.  She served good.  She didn't give me the chance to find my rhythm.   
You know, at the end I was still trying, especially at the end of the match, to breaking her back and staying in the match.  But, yeah, she played well.  The chance that I had, I couldn't take it.   
Yeah, I will try to take the positive things from the whole week, from the last two weeks before going to Wimbledon now.   
 Q.  Was it the fact you had a walkover, was that in any way a hindrance in that you didn't get in an extra match and stay in that groove?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: No, I don't think this was affecting my match today, because, you know, I had so many matches in the last two weeks.  So it was more I think that she played well and I tried my best today out there, but, yeah, I mean, I just can say that she played a good match.  The chances, like I said, that I had, I didn't take it and that was then the key for the match.   
 Q.  Accepting that she played really well, were you in any way slightly short of energy today, particularly moving out to the wide balls?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: You know, I think that my serve was not really well today.  My balls are a little bit shorter than normal, and then she was able to go for it.   
And then, of course, the balls are a little bit faster, especially on grass.  Yeah, and I think it was just, like, the few percentage of my serve and the balls that I played a little bit too short.   
 Q.  What do the next couple of days look like?  You get to start on Tuesday.  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I mean, we will go as soon as possible now to London, and I will try to practicing there few times before my match, trying to enjoying the next few days.   
But as well finding my routine again and getting ready for the first match, you know, this is the goal.  I mean, I will try of course on one side enjoying it, but on the other side I will still try to playing my best tennis, starting from the first round and trying to continue how I played last year.   
 Q.  Obviously it must be a different feeling going back, your name's on the board, reigning champion.  Have you allowed yourself to just think about that lovely feeling walking through the doors as defending champion?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I'm really looking forward to doing this, maybe doing a picture of this (smiling) and, yeah, enjoying the feel of walking there, seeing my name on the walls.   
You know, it is a special tournament, especially for me, and it's a traditional tournament.  So it is for sure a nice way to coming back and seeing my name there.   
 Q.  What are the benefits?  A different locker room?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I heard.   
 Q.  Nicer stuff?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I heard that they changed the locker rooms.   
 Q.  Since last year?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yes.  So let's see.  I will tell you tomorrow.   
 Q.  One of the things that you mentioned, though, is here, as it gets quieter, you have been able to practice a lot more.  Are you expecting it to be bedlam when you get there on Sunday, that all the practice courts are full of people?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Of course.  I mean, it will be completely new tournament right now, starting from tomorrow.   
But I know the feeling.  I know how it is to being the first days on a Grand Slam, especially in Wimbledon.  And it's Sunday.   
You know, I will just practice once, so I think I will just be going for one-hour hit and that's it and then leaving the site as soon as possible.   
But, yeah, you know, I'm just looking forward to being there again, to having the feeling, the energy which is there.  It's always different to all the other tournaments.   
Yeah, we are staying in a house, not staying in a hotel.  So it's always a different feeling.   
 Q.  What would your approach be if you face Pliskova again at Wimbledon?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: You know, I will think about this when it happen, you know, (smiling).  But of course there are still few things that I can change, that I can make better the next time.   
You know, it is always a challenge to play against her.  If I have the chance to play against her maybe on grass again, I will try to being ready against her again.   
 Q.  You obviously know all the German players.  How close are you to Tatjana?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I don't know when we played the last time.  I think long time ago.  I know, like, I know her very well.  She likes to play on grass, as well.   
Yeah, it will be not the easy first match.  Also mentally.  But, you know, doesn't matter against who you play.  I mean, doesn't matter which opponents are on the other side.   
My goal is to finding my rhythm.  It's a new tournament.  It's the first round again.  Yeah, looking forward to playing on the Centre Court again and having the feelings, emotions on court.   
 Q.  Speaking as the local guy, you got a really good reception out there.  I would say that your popularity level with Eastbourne public is sort of close to Navratilova levels.  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Sounds good (smiling).   
 Q.  Coming back next year?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I hope.  I mean, of course I'm looking forward to coming back next year.  I love the tournament.  I played always good.  Three times final.  Never won yet.  But, yeah, maybe I can get another chance next year.   
Yeah, it's great to see all the faces here, all the fans, that they are cheering for us and for me.  So of course I'm feeling great here.   
 Q.  When you have a week like this where you have done really well but the final hasn't gone your way, what is it you learn from and take from the whole week?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I take the positive, how many good matches I had here.  Of course today it was not the result that I wished, but I played against a good opponent.   
Right now, of course I will try to think about this match a little bit what could I do better next time.  But starting from tomorrow when I arrive in London, I will think about Wimbledon and not anymore about Eastbourne then.  So it's just another tournament next week.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT