CHINA OPEN
October 6, 2016
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
E. SVITOLINA/A. Kerber   
6-3, 7-5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Tough day at the office today.  What was the main thing?  Physically you were tired?  You had so many chances, but you couldn't convert.  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Actually, yeah, it was a tough match.  I had my chances, for sure, but I didn't take it.  I make a lot of easy mistakes.  I was not playing my best, for sure.  Physically I was not 100% because I feel a little bit my leg, so I was not able to play my best.   
Yeah, I will not say that this is excuse for the lose.  I know for me now I was not hundred percent there.   
 Q.  What exactly is the issue with the leg?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I don't know.  I mean, I was starting feeling it like few days ago and also yesterday.  But it was not so much.  But this morning when I was practicing, I was feeling it a little bit more.   
Let's see.  I think it's nothing serious, but still, I mean, I know that I have to move very well when I play my game, and I couldn't play my game like I play.  So, yeah, that's why I was not able to play my game exactly.   
 Q.  It seemed like you had success when you tried to attack and shorten the points, get yourself up to the net.  It seemed like it wasn't something you would do consistently.  Why don't you think it was a game plan you could stick to with a little more consistency as the match wore on?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think it was up-and-down match.  I played few games really good and then, yeah, I did, like I said, a lot of easy mistakes.  She was moving good.  She brings a lot of balls back.  I think that was the key, yeah, why she beat me at the end.   
But still, I mean, I know that I have to, yeah, get rest now and be ready for the next challenges.   
 Q.  Do you still play Hong Kong next week or are you getting some rest now?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I don't know yet.  Still it's in my schedule to play Hong Kong.  It's right after the match, so I don't know exactly with my leg or whatever.  But it's still in my schedule.   
 Q.  With the loss in Wuhan and the loss here, what is your takeaway from the two big tournaments in China?  Very different losses, but what is your takeaway?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Of course, against Petra, we played a really good match of high quality.  Here I had my chances.  I didn't take it.  Still, I mean, I had a good time here.   
Yeah, I know that I have two more tournaments to go.  I think this is now what I will be focusing on, take the positive things more from here.   
It was a new situation, the two weeks.  I think I managed it good.  I will take these things to the next tournaments.   
 Q.  Did it feel different, these two weeks, with the No. 1 ranking next to your name?  You say it's a new experience.  Did it feel different?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: It feels a little bit different.  But on court, actually no.  Also, like myself, I'm still the same.  I still doing my things like I did before.   
But, of course, I mean, it was a new situation also during the days and also off the court.  That was a little bit new experience.  But I think, yeah, I handle it not bad.   
 Q.  Losses are obviously never easy.  Given the year that you've had, was it easier to lose a match like this today or does it make it tougher to lose a match like today mentally?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: It's always tough to lose matches.  I mean, of course, you're going out to win matches.  It's always not so easy few hours after.   
But I think I have the experience for losing matches, as well.  I know why it happened, so I will take this to the next tournament to know what can I improve, also mentally know how it feels to be top seeded in everything.  I think this also gives me a lot more confidence and more experience for the next tournaments.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT