DONGFENG MOTOR WUHAN OPEN
September 27, 2016
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. KERBER/K. Mladenovic   
6-7, 6-1, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  It was a tough start of the match.  You were 4-2 up, but it got complicated.  How did you turn this around and find your calm again?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, it was not easy because the first rounds are always really tough, especially for me.  Kiki plays very well, in the first set also when she was down 0-2 or 2-4.   
But I was trying to find my rhythm because I was not playing my best in the first, yeah, set for sure.  Then I was starting slowly to find my game.  Then I was just trying, you know, to staying in the match and trying to being focusing on every single point.   
It was not so easy for me today.   
 Q.  You get to play Petra next.  You played a tough one at the US Open.  Talk about facing her here and maybe different conditions.  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, it will be a completely different match.  We played a lot of matches in the past, also really close ones.   
Yeah, it's always a tough battle against Petra.  But I'm looking forward.  I mean, here we have a new tournament, a new day tomorrow.  So, yeah, I have to play better than today, for sure.   
But, yeah, it's the second round.  It's always a little bit easier actually for me.  Yeah, I will try my best to going out there to win the match.  But, yeah, I will have to play my one of my best tennis tomorrow against her.   
 Q.  You've won the last three matches against her.  Do you feel like you've figured out certain things in her game or is it more about you improving?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think it's more about me, because when I play against her, I'm trying to focusing on my game.  It's always tricky to play against a lefty, as well.  I was practicing a lot with lefties, so maybe this is also something I learned in the last few months and years.   
But, yeah, it will be for sure not an easy match tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT