NATURE VALLEY INTERNATIONAL
June 26, 2019
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. KERBER/R. Peterson
7-6, 6-0
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. A good win today.  How are you feeling, given the slightly murky weather?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, it was not so easy with the weather conditions out there today.  A lot of wind and a little bit raining.
But, I mean, I was feeling good so far.  I mean, the first set was really close and tough.  I mean, she had two or three set points in the first set, but then, yeah, I was playing good in the tiebreak.  And then starting good in the second set and finding then my rhythm even better in the second set, so it was a good match.
Q. I'm curious, when you make that switch from somewhere like Mallorca where the weather is very good, is there much difference to the way the ball bounces on the grass?  Dry compared to maybe a little heavier here?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Of course it's a little bit different.  But I think I'm a player who need one, two hits and then I'm pretty fast to really getting used to the conditions.
Yeah, it's not a big deal for me, because I like to play on grass.  For me, it actually doesn't matter if it's hot or it's raining or whatever.  It's just a great tournament here for me.  I have great memories, and I'm always playing good here, feeling good.  So it's great to have another match before going then to Wimbledon.
Q. As you say, two sets, the first one really tight.  The second one not tight at all.  You didn't change your play at all in the second?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: No, I was trying in the second set to be more aggressive.  I think the first set she was trying also to being aggressive and going for it.
And then the second set, I was trying to, yeah, returning also better and going for the longer rallies.  I think that was the key then in the second set.
Q. You say you love it here at Eastbourne, fantastic memories.  What is it about this tournament, especially for you, you love about it?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: This is the best preparation for me for Wimbledon.  I mean, of course you are playing here, the fans are cheering for you, and you have good opponents, you have the competition.
Yeah, every match it's really tight and close.  You have to play good tennis.  Yeah, that's why I'm coming every year back to having these matches before another Grand Slam.
Q. Do you love the fans out there?  They're so close to you?  You walk amongst them in the grounds?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I think it's great for the fans.  It's great for us.  They are watching us how we are practicing.  Yeah, they are seeing good matches, good players.
I think the draws in the men's, like in the woman's side, are really good.  Yeah, it's always full here.  This is a really good atmosphere.
Q. How inspiring do you think it is for children to be able to see you up that close?  Is that quite an important thing for you to pass on the message to kids?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I think it's really important.  Here, the tournament, the fans, the kids are really close to us.  Also, when we are walking to the practice courts, they are seeing us.  They are watching how we are playing, how we are practicing.
I think it's, yeah, for the young kids it's inspiration, because, I mean, the draw is -- it's great.  A lot of good players are here.  It's a great week for, yeah, everyone, for all of the people they are watching here the week.
Q. So does it work well for the players, as well, the fact that you're close to them?  Because we go to the rarified atmosphere of Wimbledon next week.  Even though it's an intense tournament, does it still give you a strange sense of relaxation before Wimbledon?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yes, I mean, you know, here it's completely, a little bit different to Wimbledon, of course.  Here you know you can go on the practice courts.  The conditions are quite the same.
It's not so busy like in Wimbledon right now.  Everybody is there.  They are practicing there, yeah, trying to get in courts and everything.
So it's better and relaxed to stay here as long as possible.
Q. What's the balance as you go deeper into here?  Do you feel you are missing out on that, or is it actually nice that there will be less people here the deeper you go in?  You get more of the place to yourself rather than competing at Wimbledon for courts?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I prefer to playing here good and to, yeah, not being in the stress atmosphere right now in Wimbledon to getting a court, to being there, because you have still, like, one, two days to getting ready for Wimbledon, to getting used to the conditions there.
But they are quite the same, and it's just like two hours' drive, so it's not so far.  Yeah, that's why I like this tournament, as well, that we don't have the long flight to go to the Grand Slam, that we are just going to the car, we are driving, and then we are there.
So it's just better for me to being here, it's more relaxed, having the chance to competing, to playing my matches and then going there.
Q. Going back to something you said about the kids, have you been able to go to your own academy?  What's their view now that you're coming in as defending champion?  Are they excited?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I mean, for me, it's always important to practicing there, especially during the tournaments, to hitting some balls also with the kids there.  Yeah, and seeing them also improving, practicing hard.
I think we, as players, we are inspiration for all the young kids.  I mean, I remember when I was a kid, I had also like my idols and my inspiration.
So now the role is changing a little bit as you get a little bit older.  But, yeah, this is what I really like.  I like to hit with kids, also speaking with them, because, yeah, that's the future.  And to having, yeah, very good kids, talented kids coming in the next years, it's always important especially for the sport.
Q. What's your first memory of going to a tournament as a child?  Did your parents take you?  Where was it?  Poland, Germany?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: No, it was in Hamburg.  So it was Am Rothenbaum in Hamburg because I'm living close to this tournament.  I remember on this time we had still woman's and men's.  Yeah, that was my first big tournament where I was seeing all the pros playing and practicing.
Q. What's your main form of relaxation away from the tennis court to destress?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Going for a coffee, playing some cards with my team, and just, yeah, I mean, not being on the tennis side, not being on the courts.
Just, yeah, going shopping a little bit, reading few books.  So this is my time for myself then.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT