U.S. OPEN
September 2, 2016
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. KERBER/C. Bellis
6-1, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. What was it like down there on Ashe under the lights?  How did you feel in the match?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: It was a great atmosphere.  I mean, the fans and the crowd, it's just amazing.  Of course, to playing against an American, it was really special.
Yeah, I was enjoying to play tonight out there.
Q. What did you think of her game?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think she has, for sure, a great tournament.  She's a great young, really talented player.  For sure she will have a great future.
I mean, she's a great player.  She's really young, so let's see how her future will be.  But I'm really sure it will be a good one.
Q. When you say she's a good player, is there anything specific that she did that maybe you thought, Wow, that's pretty good for a 17-year-old?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think she went out there and she tried to play her game.  I mean, she tried to move good.  She's not making too many mistakes.  So this is, yeah, a really great weapon from her.
Yeah, let's see.  I mean, I think she was a little bit nervous at the beginning of the match.  I know the feeling, so I was trying to take my experience tonight for this match.
Q. How important were those first few games for you?  Some got a little close.  Just to get the lead on a young player.
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Actually, I was thinking more on my game, to being aggressive, to going for it, trying to enjoy the match.  Of course, it's always important to go out and win the first few games, to have also a lot of confidence of your own game tonight.
This was actually also my goal for that match.
Q. Is that just part of your improvement, not worrying about the score, focusing on yourself?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I think I improved a lot of these things, you know, to going out there and not thinking too much about the score.  Just playing point by point and being positive.  So this is what I'm still trying to improve.  I think I'm in a good way.
Q. You talked about your 2007 match against Serena.  What do you remember about that match, how far you've come?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I remember the match really well.  I mean, I was really young.  I was really nervous.  I went out there and I remember the atmosphere.  It was amazing.
We played two sets.  The second set was really close at the end.  Yeah, I mean, this was my first match against Serena.  I really played a good one.  But, yeah, that time she was too strong for me.  It was a great experience also for my next steps and for the next, yeah, tournaments and matches what I had after.
Q. You talk a lot about the importance of being aggressive.  Sometimes when your opponent is being aggressive you're able to make them make another aggressive shot, sometimes they miss.  How important is that to your success?  What effect do you think that has on them?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think it's important to my game, being aggressive, but also being defensive.  Your opponent's playing sometimes really aggressive, so there are different ones.  I mean, you have to playing your own game.  This is what I'm trying.
I mean, of course, when there's somebody who is just like hitting the balls, I'm trying to be like more playing from the defensive end.
At the end, for me it's important to going out there with my weapon, going, playing in the middle of the court, and just going for it.
Q. Kvitova next.  What do you expect?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: It will be a good match, I think.  We had great matches in the past.  Yeah, it will be a good challenge.  I'm looking forward.
I will try to, yeah, going out and win the match, of course.  Try to enjoy the next match here in New York.
Q. At this point in the tournament, how hard is it to not look past that next match?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: It's easy not look ahead, because now it's the next opponent and then we will see what's happen.  I mean, for me it's always important to playing step by step, day by day.
The next one is Petra.  Then we will see what's happen after.
Q. Does this tournament feel any different to you with top seeds going out?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Actually for me, no, because I'm not looking to other players.  I'm looking just on my games, on my days, what I have to do, and going my own way.
So this is actually nothing different.  Yeah, it's just the same.
Q. Obviously left-hander versus left-hander.  Is playing a left-hander as weird to you as it would be for a right-hander to play you?  Is it noticeably different for you when you play a lefty?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Of course, it's a little bit different than to play against a right-hander.  I played a lot of matches in the last few weeks against lefties, so it will be nothing special for me.
I mean, it's just the ball spins a little bit different.  But at the end I know how Petra is playing, so it's nothing new for me.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT