U.S. OPEN
August 31, 2016
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. KERBER/M. Lucic-Baroni
6-2, 7-5
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Angie, it got a little bit dicey there in the second set.  Talk through the match a little bit.  Seems like you played well and things got a little complicated.
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I played very well in the first set.  I moved good; I played good; I played my game.
In the second set I was 4-1 up.  It was still good for me, but I think she was playing better and she was going for it.  Then she was not making too many mistakes like in the first set.  For me, I was a little bit short then, so she had the chance to go for it.
Yeah, the last two games was not easy, but I was trying to staying focusing and staying, yeah, a little bit in my rhythm and in my game with my mind.
Q. You had obviously played her in Montreal.  That was a much more complicated match than today.  Do you think about that match at all when you prepare for this match?  Is it brand-new, it doesn't matter?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Of course, I was thinking about this when I talk with my coach before the match.  I was watching a little bit of the match on YouTube, as well.
But it's a new days and we are playing here on new court, so it was a little bit different.  There was a little bit difference because we played also night session.  Of course on court I'm not thinking about the match we played in Montreal.
But still I knew how she is playing.  I know that I have to play really good in my defensive and, like, moving good, because this is what was the key I think today.
Q. We've had a few players have issues with the heat and the humidity today.  How did you find the conditions?  Were they particularly more difficult than Monday?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: It was a little bit difficult, but for me it was okay.  I mean, I think I played also little bit later and it was little bit cloudy.  For me it was fine.  I had no problems with the weather today.
Q. How much do you know about your next opponent?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Not too much.  I don't know if I played against one of them.  I don't think so.  I think my coach will watch the match now and then I will talk with him tomorrow and we will see.
But it's the third round.  It will not be easier.  But, yeah, I'm looking forward to being again in the third round here.
Q. At this point in the tournament, how much of a benefit was having that tougher second set going forward for your confidence?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Of course when you win a set like this you know that you can win like sets and games when it's really close.  She had also like few set points.  This is what actually makes me like believing in my game again and in my fight spirit.
I know still if I'm like down I can turn around the match.  Yeah, it's good to have a set like that.
Q. You are playing an American next at the US Open.  What do you expect out of the crowd?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Actually I'm looking forward.  I mean, the crowd, it's great here.  They are supporting everybody.  To play against an American it will be a challenge, but I'm looking forward.  Let's see who will win today.
Yeah, at the end it's nice to play against an American right now.
Q. Earlier I was talking to Petkovic.  She said one of the things she's noticed with you is your decision making on the court has improved a lot in 2016 compared to previous years.  Can you talk about that?  How does one improve decision making?  Is that pure experience?  How does that switch get flipped?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think with all the experience I had the last few months and years.  I think when you go out and you know you're making the right decision, you know you have success with this, then you are like believing in yourself and your decision.
Of course, sometimes you're going out and you're making like not this decision, not the right ones, but in the end it's on your hand.  You're going out there to win the matches or to lose it.  It's not like you just try to hope.
I lost a lot of matches like this, yeah, few years ago, so this is what I really try to change now.  Just trying to go for it when I have the chance and making the decision by myself.
Q. Do you use tape to improve that?  Do you watch your matches?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Actually, no.  Actually, I'm not looking too much on my matches.  I'm trying, you know, to have the feeling.  When I'm feeling confident and I'm practice really hard, I know how to do on court.
If you had a lot of matches like I had in the last few weeks, that gives me like much more confidence with the decision on court.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT