U.S. OPEN
August 26, 2016
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How was your confidence coming into the tournament having two tough losses, the gold medal round and in Cincinnati?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Actually, to be honest, I'm feeling good, because I have great matches in the last weeks, and especially a lot of positive emotions.  I mean, of course I have two tough matches in the finals, but I played not bad.   I mean, my opponent is playing good in these matches.
But I have a lot of confidence to being here again, having a lot of time now for practicing and preparing for the last Grand Slam of the year.
Q. There were a lot of changes around the grounds.  What do you make of them?  Did you have a chance to practice under the roof at Ashe Stadium?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I will be practicing tomorrow so I can say so tomorrow.  I saw it already.  It looks actually much bigger and a little bit different, but it's nice to have the roof now.  I think for all the players it's much better.  Let's see how the two weeks will be with the roof.
Q. Does your seeding change your expectations at all here?  You're No. 2.  Theoretically you're supposed to make the final.  Do you go in with that thinking or just try to keep the expectations...
ANGELIQUE KERBER: No, I'm not thinking about this.  I mean, in the last tournament I was also No. 2 seeded.  For me every match is tough because all the players are really tough opponents.  I mean, you have to win all the matches to get to the final first, and you have to play match by match.
So the pressure and expectation are always the same when I'm going to the tournament.  Doesn't matter of the seeds.
Q. What does the No. 1 ranking in the world mean to you, given that you do have a possibility by the end of this tournament to have it?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I love the question.  I love it.
I mean, let's see what happen in the next few days or two weeks.  I mean, to have the chance, of course that means a lot.  But you have to play like a whole year to get the chance.  And you have to play really good tennis and to play -- continue your good tennis.
So to have the chance it's great, but if they will come you will see.  I mean, it means a lot when I will get another chance to get it, but let's see.
Q. What was it like for you to see Puig in that celebration at that Olympics?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I mean, I was happy for her.  I mean, that was I think one of her best weeks of her career.  She played a great tournament so she deserve it at the end.
I was happy for her, but of course I was first a little bit disappointed.  But at the end, I mean, she won the gold medal and I was not losing it.  I have my silver.  I have my medal.  (Indiscernible - photographer interference.)  Yeah, well done for her.
Q. Torben said that you guys haven't really been talking about the No. 1 stuff at all, and I'm curious whether that's a result of what happened in Singapore last year, talking too much about something and getting too nervous.  Is that a new mentality?  Just don't get too caught up into it?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, that's true.  I will not put too much pressuring on this.  If the day will come I will reach No. 1, would be amazing.  I learned a lot of things the last year, especially with the Singapore thing, with my match there.  I had to win one set and I was completely too much pressure on myself.
I learned from this and learned from a lot of losses, a lot of wins what I win and up and downs.  That's why I will not thinking too much.  I am here playing tennis, this.  Is what I love to do.  And, yeah, like I said, when the day will come, it's great, but I will try to enjoy every moment right now because it's one of the best season of my career so far.
Q. Do you remember the first time you were in New York?  What do you make of the city?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I remember.  I played juniors here like long, long time ago, and I love the city.  I mean, also because for me starts everything here like 2011.  That was my turnaround, when I reached the semis here.
I mean, yeah, it's incredible city with a lot of traffic.  This is maybe not the best.  But, yeah, the fans are amazing.  I love the site here, and it's just nice to be back.
Q. You played that semifinal on Grandstand.  Curious if you'll miss that court and if you've gotten a chance to play on the new Grandstand?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I played yesterday on the new Grandstand.  I think it's a great court.  I mean, it's a new court, and it's a great stadium, actually.
I mean, hopefully I will play a few matches on this court, because I really like it.
Q. How different does feel to be ranked and just regarded this highly since winning Australia and the Wimbledon final, or has it been the same feeling it has been for the past year of being around the top 10, top 5?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I think a few things change, of course.  I mean, in the last few months when I won Australia and also making the final in Wimbledon, but I think for myself I'm still the same person, and I know what to do to have like success.
Which is what I learned, and this is like the same, what's the same like the last few years.  The pressure for sure is maybe a little bit higher, but if I'm not doing the pressure on myself, everything is fine.
Q. In many of the past majors, it's been looked at like Serena Williams and the rest of the field.  What is it like now?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Serena and the rest of the field.  (Smiling.)
No, we will see.  There are a lot of good players right now.  We will see what's happen here.  I mean, it's a new tournament.  Everybody is ready for that.  Everybody will give the best.
Let's see how Serena will play here.  Let's see how the others will play.
It's, yeah, new days, new tournaments, new matches, so let's see.
Q. You said that you kind of hit the wall in the final in Cincinnati physically.  So this week, what has it been like for you?  How has the recovery been and what have you been doing to try to get all that energy back?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I'm feeling much better.  I mean, after Cincinnati I had like two days off.  I came here a little bit earlier.  I was just trying to relaxing a bit, like going shopping or going to the Central Park, doing something a little bit different off court.
I started like two days ago practicing again, coming here, preparing.  I'm feeling much better.
So I think my energy came back.  I have still few days before the tournament starts, and I will be ready on Monday.
Q. You took a boat tour?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yes.
Q. Central Park?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: No, we saw the liberty, the statue.  That actually was nice.  Was the first time I was doing this.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT