ROGERS CUP
July 30, 2016
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. HALEP/A. Kerber
6-0, 3-6, 6-2
An interview with:
ANGELIQUE KERBER
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Halep won six games in a row in the first set, and she won the six last points.  What happened during those one-way sequences?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think actually it was not my day.  I was not playing my best.  I think I make lot of mistakes.  That's actually not my game.
But I know that I have to, yeah, go for it, take the chances and being a little bit also risky to play and to win against her.
But, yeah, she played a good match.  At the end she deserved to be in the final now.
Q. It looked like you did start to get the match back on your terms at the end of the second set, beginning of the third.  What happened after 2-0 in the third set?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think it was a little bit, again, up-and-down match.  She start very strong.  I came back in the second set.  Then also the beginning of the third set I was playing much better because I was moving better.  Then I start again making too much mistakes, too easy ones.
She was playing more consistent than me the whole match.  I think at the end that was the goal, she was playing, not like me, with a lot of up and downs today.
Q. After the first set you lost 6-0, how did you come back in the second set strong?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: After the first set, I was trying to forgot the first 25 or 30 minutes.  I was trying to coming back and playing again, trying to playing my game, thinking about every single point actually, and not thinking that I lost the first set 6-0.
I know that I can turn around matches like this.  I was not too stressful after the first set.
Q. Before this year there was the Fed Cup and Wimbledon.  There's a kind of not rivalry but a kind of story with Halep.  Do you like to have great matches like that?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, it's always good to have matches like this, especially like against Simona.  We played a lot of matches in the past.  It's always good to have, yeah, players where you know you have to play your best.  Yeah, this is actually what I like.
Q. How do you assess the level of your game after this tournament and heading into Rio?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think the tournament was good for me because I have a lot of tough and close matches during this week.  It was the first tournament on hard court again, so it's good to have a lot of matches before going to Rio now, having a few matches under my belt.
I'm actually feeling good.  Of course, it's tough, the lose today.  Still, I take the positive things for the next week and looking forward to play the Olympics.
Q. Speaking of the Olympics, how does the idea of a medal - gold, silver or bronze - compare to winning the Australian Open, making the Wimbledon final?  The ultimate question:  Where does that compare with the biggest prizes in the sport?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think, of course, for the tennis player, the Grand Slams are I think the most important things.  Yeah, I mean, of course you are looking forward, like me, to playing the Olympics because it's only four years.  It's an honor to play for Germany.
Of course, I will give everything to win the medal, doesn't matter which one.  But yeah, I mean, a Grand Slam title is still a Grand Slam title.  It's tough to compare because it's a little bit different, but I'm happy that I already have one.
Q. The crowd seemed to be behind your opponent.  Did you feel that was a factor in this game?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: No.  I know that Simona has a lot of fans here in Canada.  I mean, for me it was full, and it's always nice to play in front of the crowd when it's really packed.
I mean, for me it's always great that the fans are supporting you.  Yeah, like I said, I know that Simona has a lot of fans here.  But for me it's always nice to play in front of such a great crowd.
Q. What is the best quality of Simona?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I know Simona very well.  We played a lot of matches.  I know it's always tough, yeah, to make easy points against her because she is running very well.  I think this is her biggest weapon.
Q. How do you see the end of this competition for tomorrow?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I don't know who is in the final.  Simona is there, but I don't know yet who is the next finalist.  But for sure it will be a nice final.  I think a lot of people will watch.  I hope it will be a great day for the Rogers Cup here.
Q. What is your priority for Rio?  Is it to go and try to win the tournament, a medal?  Is it to have the Olympic experience?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: My priority is really going there and winning a medal because that's my second Olympics.  I had the feeling already in London.  Of course, it's always special.  It's a new location, new country and everything.  But, of course, I'm going there to really trying to focusing on every match and being actually ready, yeah, for the week, to playing my best tennis there.
Q. What was the most difficult turnaround point?  One moment in the third set we had the impression that you could win.
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I was 2-0 up in the third set.  I was feeling actually not bad.  But then she was playing actually all the time, like I said, consistent.  I make too many easy mistakes at the end of the third set, like I did in the first set.
Yeah, I think that was the key at the end, that she was bringing the ball once more, like, over the net.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT