OLYMPIC GAMES RIO 2016: TENNIS
August 13, 2016
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. PUIG/A. Kerber
  6‑4, 4‑6, 6‑1 
  
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
   
 Q. Angelique, how do you explain it? In a way did you expect that Puig could play so well, especially with the backhand?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I was expecting a really tough match. She played a great week, and also today I think she played her best tennis and one of her best matches in her career, for sure.   
Yeah, I mean, I tried everything. I was fighting till the last point, but she was hitting the balls. I think the luck was today on her side.   
   
 Q. Is it a bit of a bittersweet moment for you? You take home the silver, which is great, but it's not the gold.   
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I mean, of course it's not the medal I wished, but still it's silver. Before I came here, I said to myself I will give everything to win the medal. I won the silver one, and I'm proud, yeah, to represent my country. It's an honor, yeah, to win the silver medal and to go with a medal back home.   
   
 Q. Taking into consideration what you said, that obviously there is the disappointment aspect, where would you rate that as compared to the Wimbledon final last month?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I mean, of course it's a little bit different tournament than the Grand Slams, but it's also really high on my list because I was always dreaming to playing the Olympics for my country and to staying in the final. I really tried to enjoy it. And to go back home with a medal, it's a really special feeling.   
Also, I mean, I can say I won a Grand Slam, I was in the final in Wimbledon, and here I won a medal. It's one of the best years of my career. I will go with a lot of positive emotions, yeah, back home.   
   
 Q. You had the visit with the trainer. Looked like she was working on your lower back. What was going on there? How much did that hamper you?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I was feeling it in the first game actually. After the treatment it was a little bit better. But, I mean, that's not the point why I lose the match for sure.   
But, yeah, I felt it a little bit. But still I give everything today on court. This is what counts for me, because I'm always going on court to give everything I could. I did it today.   
Yeah, she played at the end better. She deserved it. For me it's really important that I played good tennis today and am going back with the silver medal.   
   
 Q. For her to win the gold is a big surprise to a lot of people. Is it a big surprise to the players? Not just today, but the whole tournament, how do you explain she was able to do it?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think she came here with no pressure, and she played one of her best weeks in her career and her life so far. She had nothing to lose. She was going for it.   
Yeah, I mean, I knew actually that she's a great player. At the end she deserved it because she played a really great week. She beat a lot of top players this week.   
So, yeah, well done to her.   
   
 Q. Are you playing Cincinnati or are you planning to rest next week?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I'm still planning to playing Cincinnati, yeah. But let's see.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT