ROGERS CUP
July 28, 2016
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. KERBER/E. Svitolina
1-6, 7-6, 6-4
An interview with:
ANGELIQUE KERBER
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Can you speak about this crazy second set when she served two times for the match, then the tiebreak.
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I think the match was a little bit crazy.  I mean, the first set I was just playing, like I make too many mistakes.  I was going for it, not playing my game actually.  I was not feeling my rhythm.  I was not on the court.  It was a little bit tough, the first set.
The second set, I was trying to find my rhythm, find my game again.  She was serving twice for the match.  I was just trying to not thinking too much, just trying to playing the points.  The tiebreak was also a little bit crazy.
Actually the whole match was a lot of up and downs.
Q. Back-to-back tough days, three-setters.  What do you tonight to prep for tomorrow?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I will have a long treatment, for sure.  My physio is here.  I will go to eat something healthy, a lot of food, a lot of water to recovery soon, to be ready for tomorrow.
Q. Ice bath?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Did it already.  So done (smiling).
Q. What is the overwhelming feeling right now after a match like that?  Is it frustration because it was what it was?  Are you mad, exhausted?  How do you feel?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I don't know.  For sure I'm not happy about my game, how I was playing, because I really not playing my best tennis today.  It's like more I'm happy that I won the match.  I don't know how.  Was a crazy match.
But it's good to be still in the tournament, still have the chance tomorrow.  The next challenge, the next match, trying to play a better tennis tomorrow.
So a lot of emotions right now.
Q. You mentioned getting physio work and things like that.  Is it anything more than normal?  Is your elbow hurting?  Is it specific?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Actually, my elbow was better today.  I think that problem, it's done actually.  But, of course, we will work still on that.
I think it's more, like, a little bit treat my whole body with a little bit massage, and be ready for tomorrow.  So nothing special, but a little bit relaxing.
Q. With your slam this year, plus your final in Wimbledon, in this kind of game where you say you're not at your best, are you feeling confident with all your results that you can still win these kinds of matches?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I have a lot of confident when it's really close, if it's, like, just one, two points deciding the match.  I'm trying to going for it.
Today, it was actually not like this.  I was more hoping.  So I'm trying to take the positive things also from the match today.
But, of course, I know how to turn around matches, I know how to win close matches.  Of course, still, I mean, I have it in my mind that I won already a Grand Slam, but still you have to be focusing on every single match.  I mean, they have nothing to lose against me.
I'm not thinking too much on court that I won a Grand Slam.  It's, like, just another match, and I know that I have to give everything on that day to win that match.
Q. You seemed to take a little bit off of your first serve.  Was that a conscious decision to put more first serves in and take some speed off?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Actually, yes.  After the first set, I felt my serve, it's not working today.  I was trying to playing more the first serves in, to being in the rally, then yeah, trying to moving better after the first set, because nothing works in the first half an hour.
Q. You're known as a player who often brings out the best in your opponents.  Does that ever get tiring?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I hope (smiling).
I mean, I know that I had already so many three-set matches.  I think my opponents know that against me you have to be really patient and playing sometimes more than two hours.
But this is my game.  Actually, I'm not thinking about this.  I'm just trying to staying fit, staying confident, staying consistent.
Q. Is there any reason why you think you played a little bit flat today for the first hour or so?  Did something feel off today?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Actually, I'm still improving to playing better tennis, being more aggressive and just going for it.  I think today I was a little bit too excited to going for it.  This is sometimes I think the problem.
On my practice, it's working, then the matches are always different.  I have to find the middle way to, yeah, being aggressive but still being good on the defensive, because this is still my game.
Yeah, I think today I was a little bit too much excited.
Q. Favorite sport outside of tennis?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: A lot.  Football.  I love to watch football.  I love swimming, volleyball.  So a lot of sports.
Q. Do you know your next opponent, Kasatkina?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I saw a few matches, how she was playing.  But actually I never played against her yet.  But I know it will be not easy.  I think she played a good match today against Vinci.
Yeah, she has, again, nothing to lose.  I know she will play good tennis tomorrow.  I know that I have to improve, playing better than today to win the next match.
Yeah, I think I'm confident to going out there tomorrow and playing good tennis again.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT