ROGERS CUP
July 29, 2016
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. KERBER/D. Kasatkina   
6-2, 6-2   
An interview with:   
ANGELIQUE KERBER   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  A change from yesterday's match.  What were the changes in your game today?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I think today I was playing much more my game again.  I was more aggressive.  I was feeling the rhythm from the first point.  I think I was serving also a little bit better than yesterday.  Yeah, the whole match was much more different than last night.   
 Q.  Heading into the semifinal against Halep, do you think you've finally found your pace?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: You know, I'm really looking forward to playing against Simona again.  We had a lot of tough matches in the last few months, and always long ones.  But I know the match will have a lot of long rallies.  I think I'm ready for it.  I'm really looking forward to take the chance against her and the next challenge here.   
Yeah, it's nice to be in the semis for my first time.   
 Q.  How is your elbow holding up?  Have you felt it at all this week?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: No, my elbow is feeling much better.  I had a lot of treatments when I came here.  It's actually from match to match better.  I'm not feeling it anymore.  Hopefully it will stay like this.   
 Q.  Against Simona, she won the first three times you ever played, you've won the last two.  What do you think has changed there?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think every match was really close which we played against each other.  I won the last two matches.  But that was, I think, clay and grass.  So hard court I never won against her.   
I really will take the challenge against her.  I think it will be a good match, especially after this week where I had a match like yesterday and then like today.  I really trying to playing my game again, trying to be aggressive, yeah, thinking more about myself.   
 Q.  Yesterday's match you seemed frustrated.  Do you think that maybe unlocked something within you because it was a very different Angie on court today?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, it was a little bit different Angie yesterday.  Maybe it was good because now I'm feeling much more how I am.  I know how I would like to play.  I was thinking also yesterday night after the match how I would like to play today and also the next matches.   
I think the match was important for me for the next few weeks and months.   
 Q.  It's not the first time you play against Simona Halep.  What are the points that you think can make you win or lose?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think it's depending also on the day, you know.  I think we both are really tough players.  We are both moving really good.  I think tomorrow it will be just another match against her where I know I have to play one of my best tennis, being aggressive, having a lot of patience against her and, yeah, trying of course to beat her again.   
The most important thing for me is to play a good match and then we will see how the result will be.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT