WIMBLEDON
July 9, 2016
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. WILLIAMS/A. Kerber
  7‑5, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

Q. Was this the most difficult day of your life against a quite often awesome opponent?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I don't know if it's the difficult day. 
I think I played what I could today. I can just say, I mean, Serena was serving unbelievable today. At the end I was trying everything, but she deserved it today. She really played an unbelievable match. I think we both play on a really high level. I try everything. 
Yeah, I mean, I think I was not the one who lose the match, I think she won the match. Yeah, just one can win, and today Serena deserved it.

Q. In the second set, you had a breakpoint. Serena laid down a 117‑mile‑an‑hour ace and then a 124‑mile‑an‑hour ace. 
ANGELIQUE KERBER: This is how Serena is playing. I had one breakpoint, and I couldn't do nothing. 
I was trying to be tough, to being in the match, trying to fight until the last point. 
Yeah, like I said, Serena was today the one who won the match. I played my best what I could today. Yeah, at the end she deserved, so... 

Q. You didn't play your best game in the first set, final game of the first set. What happened there? Did you lose it a little bit mentally?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: No, I think I was still playing not bad. I think Serena was returning better there. She was just going for it. 
I played two points a little bit too short, and she was there, and she goes for it. So, yeah, I mean, she did everything right. 

Q. It was a great final, one of the best I remember in the last years. Does it give you partial consolation?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I mean, of course I went out there today to win the match. That's for sure. But at the end, I tried everything. This is what I always telling myself when I go to the match. I was a little bit nervous at the beginning of the match. 
After this amazing two weeks, I just can say that I give everything. Of course, I'm disappointed. But at the end I'm also proud about that what I did, also after Paris. I reach my second Grand Slam final in this year. It was amazing final. I really enjoy the final today. It was a great atmosphere out there. I will never forget the feeling. 

Q. Serena has said you're fun to play. She said she enjoys playing you. Is that mutual or, in the moment, frustrating?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think I also like to play against her because I know that against her you have to play your best tennis. She is putting me to playing hundred percent. 
She's a great opponent to play, but also a great person. She's a champion. Like I said on court, she's also a great person. When you are playing against her, I know that you have to give everything, yeah, to play a good match or to beat her. 

Q. Did you feel that she changed anything from Australia? Did you change anything to respond to that?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Actually, today just her serve was much better. On grass the serve is also a little bit strange because it's tougher to return it. That was, I think, the only thing which changed from Australia. 

Q. She tried three times to get to the 22 mark. Now she's come through. What did she show from New York to now?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I don't know. I mean, she's always a tough opponent when she's playing like today. I think today she was really focusing from the first point. Yeah, today was the serve the key for the match, that's for sure. 
I think in Australia, it was amazing match, as well. I just can say, like I said, I give everything, so... 

Q. You have youth on your side. Can you see the day that you'll follow in her footsteps? She's 34. 
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think it's tough to follow on her footsteps. I'm going my own way. For me, it's just a great feeling to be in my second Grand Slam final. 
Right now, I know how to get there. I had a great experience from Australia ‑ also here. Yeah, I think I'm on a good way to play better and better. I hope that I will reach few more finals and maybe win few more Grand Slams. 

Q. You will become No. 2 of the world next week. You are closer to Serena's level. Do you feel you can become No.1 of the world one day?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Let's see one day. But I think it's still a long way. Of course, it's one of my goals one day to be the No.1. 
But I'm not thinking about this. I'm really thinking that, yeah, I'm trying to improving my tennis, improving everything around, and also take a lot of experience. 
Now I know how to handle the pressure and everything when you win a big tournament, and also when you reach a Grand Slam. I think this is the most important thing for me, to handle this, find the way how to do everything. 

Q. You obviously know what it feels like to win a Grand Slam. Now you know what it feels like to lose a Grand Slam. How different does it feel to lose this match compared to a regular tournament loss?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Of course it feels disappointed, that's for sure. But also I know that I played a good final. I lost against a really strong Serena today. This makes a little bit better, that I know that she won the match, not that I lose the match, because she played very well. I also played a good match. That makes a little easier for me.

Q. When you were a kid, starting your career, you had dreams. What was your main dream? To win a slam? To become No. 1 in the world? Wimbledon more than other tournaments?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: My dream was to win a Grand Slam. That was actually any Grand Slam. Then to be No.1, of course. But my first dream was to win a Grand Slam. 
I won it already. I know I have the game, all the experience to win a few more Grand Slams. Of course, Wimbledon is a really special tournament. But I know how to get here, and I will hope that I will get one day the chance to play another final here. 

Q. What did Serena say to you at the end of the match?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I just said to her, Congrats, and that she's a champion. 
She just said that, yeah, I'm as well a champion, it was a great match. She was congrats me, too. 

Q. Is it right that your coach stopped shaving in Australia?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yes.

Q. Have you made him continue doing that or have you allowed him to shave? Has there something gone wrong for this one?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think that's his ritual, you know. I think tonight he will shave. After two weeks, he looks like this. But this is his ritual. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT