ROGERS CUP
July 27, 2016
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. KERBER/M. Lucic-Baroni   
6-3, 4-6, 6-3   
An interview with:   
ANGELIQUE KERBER   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  It was your first match since Bastad.  How are you physically right now?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I have to say it was good.  I had a lot of treatments yesterday and also the days before.  It was good.  I was still feeling it a little bit, but much better.  I think in the next few days it will be gone, I hope.   
 Q.  How would you rate your performance today?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think it was a tough match because she is really hitting the balls.  I mean, I start really well.  Then in the second set I lost my rhythm a little bit.  But then I was trying to focusing on my own game and just going for it in the last few games, just being focusing.  Just, yeah, win the match.   
That was not so easy because, yeah, she was serving well.  I was really happy that I break her, I don't know, in the last game, the game before.   
 Q.  What was the game plan?  Your coach came after the second set.  What did you change or do?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I was trying in the third set to going for it, not just hoping that she will make a mistake.  I was trying to waiting for my chance and then play my own game.  I think that was also the key.   
I was serving really well in the third set.  This was what I was focusing, as well, on my service games.   
 Q.  How did you find the speed of the court?  Is it pretty fast?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Actually it's really fast.  I mean, I was practicing this morning half an hour on the court.  It's really fast.  Especially when you're playing against an opponent which is like playing like her, really fast and strong.   
So, yeah, it was not so easy because it was my first match on hard court after long time.  Yeah, and then also after Bastad, where I was withdrawing, I was not sure how my elbow will feel.  But it was okay.   
 Q.  It's the best year of your career.  Do you feel the pressure to perform at every tournament?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Actually, I was feeling the pressure after Australia, yes.  But right now it's not like at the beginning of the year.  I'm trying to not thinking about pressure, just going out there, playing my matches, enjoying my tennis, just focusing on every single match, yeah, not thinking to have to win every tournament.  That's actually not possible.  Nobody can do this.  I'm feeling a little bit less pressure than at the beginning of the year.   
 Q.  Do you have any thoughts on your next match?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: She's a tough opponent.  I played against her in the past a lot of times.  I have to play my game, being aggressive, yeah, moving good against her.  But I think it will be completely different match than today.  So I'm really looking forward to that match.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT