WIMBLEDON
July 7, 2016
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. KERBER/V. Williams
  6‑4, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

Q. Were you in a hurry because you wanted to see Germany‑France tonight?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yes. I have still two hours left, I think. 

Q. Was the match point the best point of the match, as a satisfaction or also technically?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I mean, the last point for me was really nice because I won the last point on this way. 
Of course, I think I played a lot of good points today. It's always tough to play against Venus. She played really hard. I was trying to moving good, like, on the last point. 

Q. You both had problems with your serve in the first set. What was the problem there?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I don't know what was the problem. I think we both returning very well at the beginning of the first set. I mean, I was a little bit nervous when I go out there because I was trying to playing my best tennis. 
Of course, she is also a tough opponent, and I know how she is playing. I was trying to focusing more on my side of the net and playing my type of style. But, yeah, my serve was not the best at the beginning of the match. 

Q. Does it feel easier with the nerves now that you already won a Grand Slam this year when you get into a semifinal situation?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I mean, of course, I have much more experience right now. It was not my first semifinal in a Grand Slam. But still, I mean, Wimbledon is always special. I'm feeling good right now. So this is why I was a little bit nervous when I went there because I know that I have to play good tennis against Venus. I mean, she played a lot of good matches here. So that's why I think I was a little bit nervous at the beginning. 

Q. She's 36 years old, had some physical problems, rough first week, long matches, the rain. Did you feel like you wanted to wear her down? Did you sense that she was tired at all?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Actually, I know that she played long matches, in the first week especially. But I was trying to moving her, as well. That was the plan. That is always the plan when you play against Venus because when she have the ball on the racquet, yeah, she just hits the ball from left to right, and you just run. 
That was my plan, to being the one to be aggressive. Also her serve, I mean, returning very well. When she hits the serve, sometimes you have no chance to get it.

Q. Did you sense any fatigue on her part or no?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Actually no. My focus was more on my side, more on my game. 

Q. Talk about Steffi. When you met her, what impressed you about her? What inspires you? What have you learned from her?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I mean, like I told a lot of times, she was always an idol for me. I was always watching a lot of matches, also on YouTube sometimes. But, yeah, I mean, she was one of the best players in the world. She won so many Grand Slams. 
I met her few times. She's a great person. When you hit with her, she's still playing really well. Of course, when you talk with her, it's always a great honor to speak with her. 

Q. Did she say anything to you in terms of advice?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Actually she just told me the last time that I'm on a good way, just believe in yourself, practice hard. One day the time will be there when you practice really well because she was believing in me, yeah.

Q. You spoke about bringing experience, more experience, into the match against Serena here. How does the specific experience of Australia inform how you will approach this?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think for sure I will go out there with a lot of confidence. At the end it's a completely new match. We are playing on grass court. She lost the final against me, and I know she will go out and try everything to beat me right now. 
I will just try to going out there like in Australia, trying to show her, okay, I'm here to win the match, as well. I know that I have to play my best tennis to beat her in the final here. 

Q. What specifically on grass do you think you need to focus more on?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think my serve will be really important, that I really start from the first point to serving very well. Also the return. Then I think my movement will be also very important. 

Q. How different do you feel sitting there having made the Wimbledon final than you felt when you sat in that room after making the Australian Open final? Is it the same level of excitement, calmer?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I mean, I'm, of course, excited to be in the Wimbledon final right now. That was always a dream for me to being one day on the Centre Court the last day and playing the final. 
It's a little bit different than in Australia because, yeah, I mean, that was my first Grand Slam final there. Here I know what's happen after. I know the experience what's came directly after Australia. 
I think right now I'm a little bit more relaxed than there. 

Q. Sorry to go back to the Steffi thing. We all talk about anniversaries. It's 20 years since she won. You were eight. Did you watch that match? Did you have any interest at all at that time?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I don't know if I watched this match, but I watched a lot of Wimbledon finals from her. I mean, yeah, I know that 20 years ago she won here the last time. Of course, I will try to be the next one to win here after Steffi. 

Q. What words of support do you have for Marion Bartoli? How brave do you think she is in coming out and revealing her struggles?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I wish her all the best. This is all I can say. I didn't know exactly the details. Yeah, I know her. I just wish her all the best. 

Q. Obviously you had a job to do today, which you did. The two women's semis today only lasted two hours. Do you feel the fans today got value for their money? What would you say to the fans who say they didn't?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: This is tough because you never know how the matches are before you came here. We are giving everything on court, everybody. It doesn't matter if you win or if you lose, I mean, that's sports. You never know what's happen at the end. 
Yeah, I mean, we give our best. At the end only two can win. You never know if it's two hours or, at the end, eight hours.

Q. What do you do on grass that might make you more dangerous even than on hard court?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think, which is for me really good, that I'm a lefty. When I have not too many nerves, I can serve a little bit better. This makes me much more dangerous than on hard. 
Also I'm feeling good for my movement on grass court. I mean, I'm really like to move on grass, yeah, and just go for it when I have the chance going down the line. 

Q. After Australia, looking back now, how do you feel like the rest of your year has been? Are you surprised that you were able to make it into another Grand Slam final or did you think you had this capability?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think I'm not surprised because after Australia, like I said, there were a lot of things to handle it. Now it's I think six months ago. I learned from this experience. I learned from my up and downs. I know how to handle all the stuff which I'm doing off court. I know that I have to take the time for my practice and focusing on the gym things and on the tennis, as well. 
I mean, I played good in Miami, and I won Stuttgart, as well. In Paris, it was actually too much pressure that I put on myself. I learned from everything. 
So that's why here I'm feeling, yeah, more relaxed and I'm not making things too complicated like in Australia. I think this is the key. 

Q. You had a really successful career before the year 2016. Do you think of yourself differently now?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I mean, I'm, like, I think the (indiscernible) in the top 10. Also last year I won four titles. My career was very well. 
But I told myself that I would like to play better in the big tournaments. I think what's changed, I just believe much more in myself, especially after Australia, about my game, about my team and everything what's around me. This is what change me. 
I'm a little bit more relaxed when I'm going to the tournaments. I know that I can trust my tennis. 

Q. It is exactly 10 years that the two same players are playing the final in a slam, Mauresmo‑Henin 2006, now you and Serena. Mauresmo won both. Is that a good omen?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I hope so. 

Q. Secondly, in Australia you were three, four hours on the phone after you won. Are you expecting to do the same if you win this time?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Maybe five or six hours. I don't know yet. 

Q. You said you obviously dreamed of being in a Wimbledon final. Does it feel the same now as it did when you were dreaming of it?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yes, it feels the same. I don't know how it will be feeling on Saturday on the Centre Court. But for sure it will be the best feeling. I will try to enjoy it. I mean, the fans here are just amazing. I love the Centre Court. 
Yeah, it will be something really special. So I will really try to play one of my best matches. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT