WIMBLEDON
July 4, 2016
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. KERBER/M. Doi
  6‑3, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

Q. How confident are you feeling now? Your third quarterfinal. 
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I think the match was really well on a high level from both of us. She started really, really good. I played from the first point also really tough. I was trying to play my game today. 
I was feeling that my tennis is getting better and better every day. This is what counts in the second week of a Grand Slam. 

Q. What do you think you ought to improve?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think I improved my serve a little bit, which is always very important on grass. And, yeah, I was trying to being more aggressive today on this match. That works very well. 

Q. This girl had a match point against you in Australia very famously. 
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yes. 

Q. You overcame it then. How did you do it today so well?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I know how she's playing. Yeah, I played against her first round in Australia. So I was trying to playing from the first point my tennis, being aggressive. When I have the chance, just go for it. 
It was not so easy the first few games because, of course, I have it in my mind it will be a tough match. I was match point down in the first round in Melbourne. But that's why I'm really happy that I manage to win in two sets this time.

Q. It's necessary to keep the ball away from her forehand, isn't it?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yes, she's playing very aggressive, tough forehand. Yeah, I was trying to playing my style of tennis. 
Yeah, she played very well. I think that was a good match also from her. 

Q. A more general questions on both the men's and women's tour. Long final sets. As a player, would you like to see them go to a tiebreak or see them play out for as long as they last?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I don't know. I was not playing so many third sets like 18‑16 or something like this. But I think for the fans and everybody, it's always like, yeah, really nice and good. 
But I think when we have like the mixed, like it is right now, it's good. 

Q. There's a little way to go yet, but do you think you can do as well as you did in Australia?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: It's still a long way. I will thinking right now for the next match which I will play. This is what's count right now. 
I'm feeling good and I playing better and better. This is what's important for me and for my confidence. But, yeah, I know that I have still a long way. I have to play really good. 

Q. How important is it for you to have finished early?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Of course, it's good. But actually, yeah, it does matter. It's nice that the sun is out there and it's not raining. But, yeah, it's good to be fast and to be in the quarters right now. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT