ROLAND GARROS
May 26, 2019
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. POTAPOVA/A. Kerber
6-4, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. From start to finish, this clay court season has just been a disaster for you.  Just talk about what you felt actually being able to take to the court today and what happened for you today.
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I think she played good.  I mean, she really played good.
You know, I tried my best.  I was able to practice the last few days really good, but it was not really, yeah, a long clay court preparation with everything.
But at the end, I was happy to at least going on court, playing a match, and of course it's not like I hoped for.  But, yeah, she played good.  What else can I say?
Q. We know it has been a difficult year for you so far.  Can you talk about the challenges that you have faced and how you feel you are now?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I mean, the year was with up-and-downs and right now I lost here the first round, so what should I say?
I mean, of course I'm disappointed, but I tried everything the last two weeks to be here to playing a match, and, I mean, I was happy about the process the last days, but at the end, I didn't have really matches before I couldn't practicing very good.  So, yeah, at the end I really don't have too much expectation for this tournament.
Yeah, I think the feeling what I have before the tournament, it was right.
Q. So what do the next few weeks look for you now?  How does the ankle feel after this match?  Where do you go from here?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I don't know.  Right now I need to cool down a little bit and think what I will do the next days, next weeks.  For sure I have still to continue the treatments with my foot and with my ankle, and then we will see.
I mean, right now I have a little bit more time than expect, but, yeah, I don't know yet what the next schedule for the next weeks.
Q. Of course it was tough for you, considering the injury, but still, she's No. 86 ranked player.  Did she surprise you with anything, you know, in her game?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: You know, I didn't know too much about her, but I know that she plays good in the juniors.  She won big tournaments.
I mean, you know, she has nothing to lose.  I know how the feeling is to go on court, trying the best.  She really plays good today.  So, yeah, there are a lot of new good players are coming, and she's one of them.
Q. Can you tell us a bit more about the extent of the injury and if you felt some pain today while playing?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, you know, the pain is -- I mean, if you play matches, always a little bit different than to the practices.  Of course this is not my excuse and everything.  I tried my best.
I know that there is still a little bit work to do to really playing matches 100%, to sliding, to jumping on the foot, and on the leg.
I tried my best, and this is all I can say.  I mean, of course I know that there are still few more days or weeks that I have to take care of this.
Q. You said that clay is not really your favorite surface.  What makes it so difficult for you?  I know some players really like it.  Other players really don't like it.  Just not maybe so much about today's match, but just in general, what's difficult about playing on clay for you?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: For me, of course, the movements, the sliding.  Also the bounces, how the ball is bouncing, and, yeah, how to play on clay.  I mean, it's a little bit different to grass and to hard court, so it's always a big challenge for me, yeah, to have the patience to wait for the ball, to going through the balls.
So it's a little bit different game than to the other two surfaces.
Q. When you are recovering from an injury and you are working hard but your body won't let you do what your mind is telling you, how difficult is that?  What emotions do you go through, day-in, day-out, when you feel like you are working every day?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I mean, of course the goal was to coming here to playing this tournament, and of course it was, like every day the last two weeks, was really hard.  Yeah, of course, I thought that I can play a little bit better, but at the end, like I said, I didn't have really too much matches on clay.  It is always a tough challenge with all the setups and to coming back, but, you know, the year's, we have still few more months to go, and the clay season is over now for me.  Yeah, I'm happy about that, that I can now looking forward to playing on grass.
Q. You will obviously assess how you feel physically, but what will be the next steps in how you plan the next period of time?  What will you do?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I don't know yet.  I have to cool down now, and I will sit down with my team and we will plan the next few weeks.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT