WIMBLEDON
July 2, 2016
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. KERBER/C. Witthoeft
  7‑6, 6‑1 
  
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
   
 Q. Very different match from the last time you played her here a year ago. Talk us through that.   
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, it was a different match and a different score, for sure. I knew before that it will be tough match against her because she played very well here the first two rounds. I know that she has nothing to lose against me and she will go out there being aggressive. She played really well.   
Yeah, I'm happy that I won especially the first set and then the second one.   
   
 Q. What was kind of your reaction to having the matches canceled yesterday, having to come back, wait for the order of play?   
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Honestly, it was not so easy because yesterday our matches canceled really late, then the order of play came really late yesterday. Yeah, it was not so easy.   
Also today, I mean, on and off. It was raining, then the sun came out. It was really tough.   
But I was trying, you know, being still focus, trying to listen to my music or, like, being really in my zone and trying to, yeah, being focus.   
   
 Q. How much do you look ahead in the draw now that you're the highest‑ranked player in your side of the draw?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I don't know really. No, I'm not looking too far in the draw. I know against who I'm playing my next round. I didn't know this before this match. So now I know.   
It's a lefty again. But I'm not looking too far in the draws.   
   
 Q. A moment ago you said that it's not so easy when the schedule is messed up, on again, off again. What is most difficult about it mentally and physically?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Both. First of all, mentally, you must be really focusing and staying really concentrate. But also like physically, I mean, I don't know how many warmups I did today. To be, yeah, warm when you go out there. It's always tough when it's a little bit wet, to be careful with injuries.   
So I was trying, yeah, taking care mentally and physically.  
   
 Q. What do you think the effect of all of this is on the tournament?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I don't know. We will see, of course. The weather is like the weather is. For all the players it's the same. But of course it's tough.   
For me, it was good that I was playing Brisbane [sic] before. It was the same. I had two matches in one day. So I think I get used to it, like, a few weeks before I came here.   
   
 Q. Do you feel any difference coming to the tournament this year compared to last, having a Grand Slam? Does that change your confidence or outlook at all?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think right now I'm feeling really good, like in Australia. Of course, I have confidence. I know how to win a tournament like this. I think this gives me a lot of more, like, experience and confidence, like I had in Melbourne.   
But it's always tough to come to the Grand Slam. I mean, the first few rounds are always not so easy. I was not playing so good in Paris. So it's good to be back in the second week on a Grand Slam after my Australian run.   
   
 Q. For someone who is outside of tennis, who really doesn't understand the inner workings of Wimbledon, how do you explain how special the middle Sunday is?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: It is special. It's special for this tournament. It's traditional, actually. I heard it's like the fourth time they are playing tomorrow.   
I mean, you don't know how the weather is. Yeah, it's actually special that they are playing tomorrow because it's like a tradition here in Wimbledon. But, yeah, they have to.   
   
 Q. You said you know who you are going to play in the next round. What did you learn from the previous matchup against her? What kind of match do you expect?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I am expecting a really close match, I think. She is a lefty, as well. We never played on grass before. I think this is also a little bit different than to Australia.   
But I know that she is a tough opponent. I was match point down in Australia. But I will try to, yeah, not thinking about who I'm playing. I will go out there trying to, yeah, play my game like always, and let's see.   
   
 Q. The Porsche logo on the top of your dress seemed quite large. Do you know if that was approved?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yes, it was.  
   
 Q. Are you driving a Porsche?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I'm driving a Porsche.  
   
 Q. Did you drive it over here with you?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: No, because it's on the other side you drive here.  
   
 Q. You are a very experienced player. When you're in a slump, is there any specific behavior to overcome a slump?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: No.   
   
 Q. You don't have any specific behavior?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Actually, no.   
   
 Q. What does Carina have to do to reach the top?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yes, she's playing really aggressive. I think just try to play consistent and playing a lot of more tournaments, matches like this. I think, yeah, when she win one or two matches against really good player, then she will get, like, much more confidence and believe in her game, that she can beat also good players.   
So I think just, yeah, staying positive and practicing, playing. I think she has the potential to go far in the rankings and also in the tournaments.  
   
 Q. What is your analysis of the German football team right now and what are your plans for watching the match?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: My plans are for sure we will watch. I don't know where, but we will watch for sure with my team. Yeah, I know that they will win today against Italy. I'm sure.  
   
 Q. How do you know that?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I don't know. It's the feeling. I think they are really in a good shape. They are loving to playing tournaments. That's really a team, they are like, when the tournament starts and the matches are coming, they are there. I think they are loving to be in France right now. I think they will play a good match tonight.   
   
 Q. How would you rate your first week at Wimbledon, your play, everything?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think the first round was a little bit tricky, then also with the next rounds, with the rain, with the waits, yeah, cancellation and everything.   
At the end I think it was a good week for me. I had good three matches. But right now, the second week starts, and I know that I have to playing from match to match better to, yeah, win some more matches here.   
   
 Q. Is there an excitement around the locker room that there is tennis on Sunday?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Not yet. Now we are just looking outside and looking at whether it is raining or no. That is actually the only thing we talk.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT