AEGON CLASSIC
June 17, 2016
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
C. SUÁREZ NAVARRO/A. Kerber   
6-4, 1-6, 7-5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions for Angelique Kerber, please.   
 Q.  It's been a busy day for you.  Probably not the way you wanted to finish it.  What can you sort of take away, because you're not playing Eastbourne, to prepare for Wimbledon?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I had great matches.  I mean, I had few matches before Wimbledon.  That was my goal.  Of course, it was not the score I would like to have after this tough match, but still I think I find my rhythm.   
I'm playing good tennis.  Today was close match, just one or two points decide the match.  Carla won at the end.  It's always tough to play against her.  We always have tough matches.   
That's all I can say.  I just take positive things from the week.  I'm feeling good on grass.  This is the positive thing I will take into Wimbledon now.   
 Q.  It obviously meant a lot to defend your title in Stuttgart on home soil.  Would this have been as special, to defend your title on grass?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: That was my goal, to defend my title.  But still, every tournament starts from zero and the opponents are always different.  The conditions, they are not easy here.   
But still my goal was to have a lot of matches.  I'm not defending my title here, but still I had the great week.  I have one more tournament to go on grass, so let's see.   
 Q.  What sort of expectations do you have going into Wimbledon?  How far do you think you can go in the tournament?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: That's always tough questions.  I mean, you are going there to play your best tennis.  This is my goal.  This is always my goal in every tournament.  You're looking round to round, trying to getting into the tournament.   
First few rounds always tough in every tournament, for me especially in the Grand Slams.  First of all, I will just focusing on my first round in London.   
 Q.  Do you feel like your game is in good shape to enable you to beat anybody you play?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Actually, yes, I'm feeling much more better now.  I'm playing good tennis.  That makes me a lot of confidence to go into Wimbledon.   
I mean, after not the best clay court season I had this year, it's good to have two wins here and still have a good match against Carla today.  This is what I will take to Wimbledon.   
This is always what counts to me going in with a lot of confidence into the next tournament.   
 Q.  Anything in particular that you will work on before Wimbledon?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: On grass, it's always important to have a good serve and the return.  So the first few balls after serve or return, I will work on it.  Try to be healthy and going for it.   
I mean, we have, like, 10 days now to go to Wimbledon.  I will try to make it easy like I did it here.   
 Q.  Talk a little bit about what it's like to do your preparation at Wimbledon.  You get to play on that grass.  Is it very much different from here?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I will see.  I remember last year, and, actually, it was not too much different from here to London.  But, of course, I mean, you're going there.  You will practice there on the courts where you will play.   
But for me, grass is grass.  It's actually not a big deal.  And the weather, I think the weather is the same.  That's what was good for me to playing here, to have the patience that I had here to take into London.   
 Q.  Was there anything you could have done differently?  She started quicker than you did, and then you got the momentum and got within two points of winning.  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think the match was very close.  She starts very good.  I had a great second set, and then the third set, it was up and down.  I think it was two or three points which decide the match.  Of course, I make, like, one easy one I remember.  Still she played very well in the deciding moments.   
And, yeah, but I will just take a positive that this was a good match.  It can be just one winner and one loser.  I think I will not say I'm the loser because I played a good match.   
 Q.  It was a great match with wonderful rallies.  Was the court getting drier?  Was it improving?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Maybe the court was good today.  It was not too slippery than the last few days, of course, because it was not raining.  Yeah, maybe.   
But I think we are both good players.  That was the reason, we played good.   
 Q.  She's still thought of by some people as a clay court player.  But are you impressed by the way she adapted her game to the grass?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Actually, no, because I know she's a good player.  She can play on grass and hard court.  She has a great slice.  She's moving good also on grass.   
I was not surprising because I know how good she can play.  Yeah, she's always a tough opponent.  Let's see how far she can get here.   
 Q.  Over the last few years, you've built up your aggression to shorten up your points.  You also seem to perform your best when you're coming from behind.  Do you find it easier to chase your target rather than be out in front?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I don't know.  I think this is my style, how I'm playing.  I'm trying to go in more aggressive and trying not always be match point down to playing the tennis, you know.   
I'm trying to also making the rallies shorter.  I'm working on taking my first chances and going for it.  This is what I try to improve and then trying to play in my matches.   
I think I'm in a good way.  This is what's also important on grass, just the first few balls.  When you have the chance, just get it, then you'll be fine.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT