NATURE VALLEY INTERNATIONAL
June 25, 2019
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. KERBER/S. Stosur   
6-4, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Are you finding your grass feet?  It's going well.  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yes, I mean, it's nice to being back here, having another good match on grass before Wimbledon.  That's why I'm here.  I like to play here on grass, so I try to enjoy every match and every moment right now.   
 Q.  Can I ask you, what was the difference in terms of how your life changed between winning Wimbledon last year and winning your first major in Australia in January 2016?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think after I won Australia, a lot of things change.  I mean, especially in Germany.  It was so huge that someone after Steffi won the first Grand Slam, and, yeah, without expectation, I played in Australia and everything.   
And of course then to winning Wimbledon as my third Grand Slam was even more special, because it was not just that I had the lucky draw or I just won my first one.  It was my third one.  And Wimbledon was always the tournament that I really would like to win one day.   
And after this, yeah, everybody is talking about Wimbledon.  Not really now about Australia or New York.  It's just Wimbledon.  Yeah, the change was a little bit different than to Australia.   
 Q.  As a child, did you watch a lot of Wimbledon on the television more than the other three majors?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I was watching Wimbledon every year, especially when Steffi was playing.  And then I start to play so I was playing, I don't know, I think 11 or 12 times right now Wimbledon, as well.  I played when I was a junior.  So I played so many years already in Wimbledon.   
I watched it on the TV, and of course I was always dreaming to holding the trophy one day.  And that was always my goal when I was preparing for Wimbledon, when I was, yeah, working hard in my preseason.  So that was always the goal and the year to being ready for Wimbledon.   
But of course you never know.  I mean, everything has to come together in these two weeks.  A little bit of luck.  You have to be ready.  You have to, yeah, have a good team around you, the trust, everything.  So it's never easy to win a Grand Slam, because two weeks are a long time.   
 Q.  To what extent are you right-handed or left-handed?  I know you play left-handed, but did you start right-handed or did you start both-handed or what?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: No, I start with my left hand, but everything else I'm doing with my right hand.  So I'm actually a right-hander, but, yeah, if I have to take a racquet or something in my hand, I just took it in my left hand.   
I don't know why.  This is a good question.  Nobody knows.  But, yeah, I'm writing with the right hand.  I'm doing everything right.  Only playing tennis...   
 Q.  (Indiscernible question.)  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Right.   
 Q.  Have you talked to Nadal about that?  Because he's the same.  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, it's similar.  I don't know.  We talk once, but I think for me and for him it was just natural.  You know, we just took the racquet in the left hand, and everything else we did with the right.   
I don't know why.  It's a good question.   
 Q.  And when you hit the two-handed backhand, do you feel that's a stronger shot because that's much of a stronger side?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Actually, I was never thinking about this, you know (smiling).   
I don't know.  I mean, if I play with my right hand, I'm not playing so well.  So I stay with my left hand and with my double backhand.  So I think that's a good way to play my tennis.   
 Q.  Was there an age where you became aware of, This is interesting, I do everything with my right except play tennis?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Not really.  I mean, because this was always natural, and when I start playing the tournaments, of course I saw much more right-handers than the left-handers.  And then everybody was asking me, Are you left-hander?  Then I was starting to thinking about this, how it starts.   
But without the reason, I played with my left hand.  It was just -- I just grabbed it in my left.   
 Q.  You never tried serving with your right or anything like that?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: No.  I think it's not a good idea to serve with my right hand (smiling).   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT