BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY SUNCORP
January 3, 2016
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. When you're reflecting on last year, looking at your year, tough start and then you kind of turned things around, what was the difference for you that brought that success?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I don't know.  I think, yeah, I had tough start last year, but I think I will try my best to have a better start this year, you know.
I'm really looking forward to play again and starting here in Brisbane, having like few matches before going to Sydney and Melbourne, of course.
But I think the different was that -- yeah, actually, I don't know.  I was just keep going and practicing and not thinking that the start was not good.
Yeah.
Q. What has your pre-season involved and how do you feel about how it's gone?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Good.  I mean, after Singapore I had like three weeks off and make some holidays and went home, so that was a great time.
Then I start practicing for four weeks.  I was splitting my pre-season, so I was in Germany a little bit and then Poland.
But everything works.  I mean, I worked a lot on my fitness, on my serve, and, yeah, now I'm ready to have good matches and start the year here.
Q. So how do you set goals for yourself this year?  A little bit of a tough year last year at the Grand Slams, so will the focus be there?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I think I will try to stay of course in the top 10, maybe going a little bit higher in the ranking.  That's my goal for this year.
Also to be more focused in the bigger tournaments, in the Grand Slams or like in the majors.  So that's my goal for this year.
Q. Have you had a look at the draw here, or are you the kind of player that doesn't look ahead?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: You know, actually I'm not looking ahead, but here I'm actually know a little bit about the draw.  I don't know, because everybody -- it's the first tournament, so everybody is talking a little bit about that.
So, yeah, but I'm just looking for my first match tomorrow against Giorgi, and this is all that counts for me right now.
Q. What do you about that matchup?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: She's a great player and I know that she's hitting the ball very hard.  I think I will just try to find my rhythm, get in the match, and play the first match of the year.
Hopefully I can win it, of course.
Q. I think three years, three quarterfinal appearances.  What works well for you here and what do you hope to improve on?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I like to coming here to Brisbane.  I really enjoy the first tournament of the year, and the weather is much better than in Europe.
So I'm just enjoying it.  I think the courts are also very good for my game.  The center court, it's nice.  We had Fed Cup two years ago here, so, yeah, it's a nice place to be.
Q. With the Olympics this year, just wondering, have you thought about to play doubles and mixed doubles besides the singles?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I'm playing here with Andrea, so, yeah, that will be fun.  Let's see how many more times we will play this year, but for sure we are thinking about it.
This is the first tournament from us.
Q. Are you a better gift giver or receiver in the Christmas season?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think both.
Q. Both?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Both.
Q. What was the best gift you got this Christmas?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: What I got?  I got nice musical cards, like tickets, musical in Germany.  I like to go to musicals or like to concerts, so that's really nice.
And, yeah, that was actually my best one.
Q. What musical?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: The new one, Alladin, in Hamburg.  So I don't know if you know.  I think so.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT