BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS
October 28, 2015
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 G. MUGURUZA/A. Kerber
      6‑4, 6‑4 
  
    THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
   
 Q. Talk us through this match. It was a good, tight match, but another loss to Garbine.   
    ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yes, I think it was a good match from both of us. It was a close one in the first, and in the second set I had my chances. I couldn't take it in the first set and as well in the second set.  
    I was coming back in the second set. I was trying to play until the last point. Again, I was fighting, like I'm always doing.  
    But, yeah, I mean, she was playing and she was more aggressive in the important moments. I think that was the key at the end for the match.   
   
 Q. For you, what's been the change in Muguruza over this year? Obviously started the year with a win over her, and since then she's improved steadily.   
    ANGELIQUE KERBER: You know, I think she played a good year. I mean, she reached the top 10, top 5 right now. But I think right now she had a lot of confidence from the last few weeks, and I think that helps her like to be very confident in the important moment and just go for it.  
    I think that's why she is so dangerous right now.   
   
 Q. You seemed quite frustrated throughout the match. The things that you were trying to do, they just weren't working against her. Can you talk us through what are the things you thought you may be able to attack her with today that maybe didn't work as well as you were hoping?   
    ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, of course I was trying to play aggressive as well and just go for it. I make a lot of like in important moments a lot have errors, like easy ones. I think that was also like why I was a little bit frustrated.   
    Yeah, but I was trying. I tried everything I could today. But, yeah, again, in the important moments she was better. She was going for it.   
    Yeah.   
   
 Q. You must be delighted with the year you've had so far. Won a lot of tournaments; done well on many different surfaces. How do you think you've improved and what do you think about next season? What will your targets be?   
    ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I had a great year. I won four titles. Of course, I think I improved a lot still in my fitness and also like I'm playing more aggressive than I played like last year.  
    I think I can still improve like playing more aggressive and my serve can still improving. But I think I'm on the good way, and for the next year, it's still so far. I'm still here and after I have holidays, so I'm not thinking for the next year right now.   
   
 Q. How do you rate this season against your last four or five seasons? Do you think this is your best season you've had?  
    ANGELIQUE KERBER: You know, this season is much different than the ones before. You know, when I reached the top 10 it was the first year, so was it something different for me. Then the second year to play consistent and stay in the top 10 was also very difficult.  
    You know, this year I was not playing so well in the Grand Slams but I won four titles, so it was for sure amazing year for me with up and downs in the first half of the year.   
    Yeah, I play consistent the second half, and I'm in the top 10 for my fourth time in the row. I'm proud about it. I'm feeling good and healthy and I can still improve my game, so that's the positive thing.   
   
 Q. There is a lot of different scenarios now in terms of who can qualify for the semifinals.   
    ANGELIQUE KERBER: Let's not count. I was counting the last few weeks. I will not count anymore. I will just play and not counting. The WTA can count, but not me.  
    Next question. (Laughter.) Not counting, please. Sorry.  
   
 Q. You answered my question. My question was will you count?   
    ANGELIQUE KERBER: No.  
   
 Q. Were you really counting point by point the last couple of weeks?  
    ANGELIQUE KERBER: You know, maybe not point by point, but it was so tight. Also we play as was counting a little bit and everybody was asking me, Okay, now you are qualified or no and how is the score.   
    Really like the last few weeks or days we were counting. And also with the Moscow thing. I was a little bit not 100% like with my back, so I was like, Okay, should I try it? But then you don't know how my back will be.  
    Really it was counting, and I don't want it anymore this year. So please let's not counting.   
   
 Q. Let's ask the question a different way: Basically you got to win. Are you just going to try and go out and win and then just hope for the best? Obviously it comes down to percentage games now.   
    ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah. You know, I mean, my goal is going out and of course win the match, I mean, like I'm always going out, you know. This will be also my goal.  
    Then at the end we will see how they are counting with games or points or whatever. But I will not thinking about this. I will just try to play the next game. Maybe it's my last one; maybe not. I don't know. But I will just try to give everything like always, and that I can say after Singapore I give everything I could here and I can go for holidays relaxed, you know.   
   
 Q. On social media, like Twitter, there's a lot of discussion whenever you take the court against a top‑10 player that it's going to be a great match because of what you've done this year and also just the way that you end up playing them. I know this question has come to you before: Can you identify exactly why that is, that you're able to turn these matches? Even though it was a straight‑sets win today, it was a very compelling match.   
    ANGELIQUE KERBER: No, I can't answer this question. I have no idea. Actually, I'm always going out to fight, to give my best. You guys know this actually and I always say it.  
    Yeah, for me doesn't matter if it's top‑10 or top‑100 player. I have respect to everybody because there are so many great players right now on tour and I know that I must give always 100% to beat the girls.  
    Yeah, but this year I played a lot of good matches against top‑10 player, and I don't know why. Maybe because we are so good, you know. I don't know. (Laughter.)  
    Q.Just a follow up. Do you remember any match where you said to yourself, Today I didn't really try my best; there is one?   
    ANGELIQUE KERBER: You know, there were some like in the really past, you know, where like I was really young. Like I remember one match where I really was not able to give everything I could.   
    After that I said to myself, Doesn't matter if I win or lose the matches, I will just say to myself after the match I tried everything. This is a much better feeling, that when you lose or when you win and actually, yeah, the other loss, yeah, you didn't give your 100% to yourself.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT