BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS
October 26, 2015
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. KERBER/P. Kvitova
      6‑2, 7‑6 
  
    THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
   
 Q. You got to be happy with that start. Tell us a little bit about how you felt that went for you.   
    ANGELIQUE KERBER: You know, I'm happy, yes, that's true. I mean, I played actually very good from the first point.   
    I was a little bit nervous before I went on court, but I was actually trying to just play my game plan and it works.  
    Yeah, the second set was like a little bit close and was up and downs. Yeah, but I played the tiebreak at the end very good, so that was the key for the match at the end.  
   
 Q. You played her so many times. There were really long three‑setters last year. Fed Cup, 6‑4 in the third. Great match. This time you kind of turned it around. Did you do anything different tonight?  
    ANGELIQUE KERBER: You know, I was trying to move better or to move very well and like to put‑‑ bring so many balls I can get back.  
    I think I served a little bit better than the match before in Prague when I lost against her, so I think that was also really important for the win tonight.   
   
 Q. Beating Petra and going 1‑0 in the group, does that change your perspective on what your chances are in terms of getting out of the group and maybe making a deep run to the finals?  
    ANGELIQUE KERBER: Actually, no, doesn't change nothing. I'm here to go out and play every single match I can play and give my best. Of course I'm going out there to win so many matches as I can win.  
    I mean, I'm starting good right now, but I still have some matches to go. You know, for sure I'm like confident right now because I played a good match tonight against Petra, but I will just try to enjoy my time here in Singapore like on and off court.   
    It's amazing city. I did everything to be here, so this is, yeah, I'm proud about it. Yeah, let's see what's happen in the next few days and how far I can get here.   
   
 Q. Hope you forgive me if I take you back a few years when you were still No. 96 in the world and on Court 17 you beat Flavia Pennetta at the US Open. I would like to know if you remember that match and what were your reaction when you found out the Flavia Pennetta had won the US Open? Were you surprised? How much? And what do you think about it?   
    ANGELIQUE KERBER: First of all, I remember this match in New York when I was 92. I beat her there, that's true. I mean, Pennetta she's an amazing player and a nice person. I'm really happy for her that she won New York.  
    She does everything what she could and she really deserve it. You know, I was actually cheering a little bit for her in the final because I know her very well. She's great. I mean, she's a great athlete. I wish her also all the best for her future.  
    Yeah, she's a great girl.   
   
 Q. What do you make of Garbine's rise up the rankings? She's been one of those players that has impacted your season quite a bit with the two losses at the majors. Having played her a bunch of times and seen her throughout the season, just what are your thoughts on her? You're likely to play her next.   
    ANGELIQUE KERBER: That's true, I lost to her in two Grand Slams and also in the Asia swing. So, you know, I'm looking forward to play against her. I will try to take my revenge now and try to go out there to beat her. Of course that's my goal.  
    She had an amazing year. She played unbelievable this year, so it will be for sure a tough match. But at the end I know a little bit how she's playing, and, yeah, I mean, I will try to go for it. That's for sure.   
   
 Q. Following up on that, there is a lot of power players that you play against; you played against one tonight. Is there anything specific about Muguruza that makes her different when we talk about the more powerful hitters in the game and the more powerful players?  
    ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think right now she played very consistent. She is just try to going for it and she‑‑ yeah, I mean, she has a lot of confidence for sure I mean from the last few weeks.  
    But, yeah, I will try to stop it and just try to beat‑‑ to win against her. Yeah, like I said, it will be not easy because she played very well and I think she will try to end this year very well.  
   
 Q. Aggressiveness, you have to change it all the time?  
    ANGELIQUE KERBER: Me?   
   
 Q. Yes you. Are you usually aggressive? Are you not aggressive enough?  
    ANGELIQUE KERBER: You know, my game is I think both. I mean, I'm a good defensive player and I'm trying to run for every ball. I try to improve my aggressive, that's for sure. I try to go for it and try to play aggressive more.   
    I'm still trying to improve my game and also my serve, but I think I'm on a good way right now.   
   
 Q. Courtney mentioned Muguruza before, and tonight against Kvitova often against those two players you have long three‑set matches; they're very dramatic. Do you enjoy those contests, or do you wish you could do it quickly or more easily?  
    ANGELIQUE KERBER: I always enjoy to play long matches because I think my matches are 80% long. So, no, I mean, that's my game. I'm always knowing when I'm going on court it could be that I'm standing there for three hours.  
    I enjoy my tennis and to play against them. They're the best players in the would. Yeah, it's an honor also to be here and to be one of the best players.  
    I enjoy really the long matches that have played, yes.  
   
 Q. Do you think you're developing a reputation as the player that's always involved in the classic matches? You had so many this year that everyone still talks about now as some of best matches in 2015. Are you proud of that?  
    ANGELIQUE KERBER: It's good. I'm proud of course because I had so many good matches this year. The last one in New York against Vika, and still there is so many. Against Aga in Stanford.  
    Of course it's good that I can show my best tennis. Yeah, that the tennis is going like this, that the people are like seeing how nice is the tennis sport. (Smiling.)  
   
 Q. Just quickly, you have a lot of marathons, but do you actually ever get tired?  
    ANGELIQUE KERBER: Sometimes, yes.   
   
 Q. When was the last time?  
    ANGELIQUE KERBER: I mean, of course I'm getting tired, but what I learned is really to try to recovery very fast, to take ice baths. I have a physio all year with me and also eat very healthy, which is really important.   
    What I found out is sleeping, so that's what I'm trying to do everywhere. On my plane, every time I have time, I try to sleep because that's the best recovery for me.  
    But I'm getting tired as well.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT