BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS
October 24, 2015
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
   
 Q. Even though you were probably assured of a place, how difficult was it for you waiting to have the confirmation that you made it to Singapore?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: You know, of course it's better if you have it in your hands. But at the end, yeah, I was waiting and watching a little bit on the live score how the other is playing.   
At the end I did everything I could this year to be here. Of course, I'm proud that I qualified at the end. It was I think the most toughest and closest to qualify at the end.   
Like I said, I did everything, and I'm really happy to be here.   
   
 Q. Left‑handers always say they find it strange playing fellow left‑handers. How strange is it to be in a group of three left‑handers?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: It's strange. We are three left‑handers in one group. It's a little bit different to play against lefties. At the end for the others it's the same.   
I practice a lot with left‑handers, so it shouldn't be a problem for me. Of course, it's a little bit different to play against lefties than right‑handed because you have much more right‑handed on the tour.   
   
 Q. I'm wondering, at this point of the tour, at this point of the season, is your body feeling like it's about ready to lie down and not get up or is your mind already somewhere else thinking about holidays? What is it like at this point of the season?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: You know, first I'm feeling still okay. Of course, it's the end of the season. You have, like, 10 months working hard, traveling a lot.   
But my mind is just only here on this week. I'm trying to enjoy every moment on and off court. I will try to give everything I have left in my body and my mind and my energy.   
Right now I will just focus on Singapore, then I know in my mind a little bit far away after here I have holidays. That's a good feeling (laughter).   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT