ROLAND GARROS
May 24, 2019
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Can you just give us just to start, an update on the injury and the ankle and how well you're feeling physically coming into this event?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I mean, first, I'm happy to being here.  Two weeks ago I was not sure if I can make Paris, but, yeah, it was a long way to being here now.   
Like, the last few days, I can say that I'm quite pain -- without pain, but, you know, I had a lot of treatment, like, every day, two, three times.   
Yeah, I mean, it was maybe not the best preparation that I wish, like, few weeks before to have on clay and also not too much, too many matches.  But, you know, right now for me it's important to being here.  And, yeah, like I always say, focusing from round to round, now it's really like I have to deal with the situation and focus for the first round here.   
Yeah, I'm actually -- I'm grateful to being here right now, and the foot, it's good.   
 Q.  Are you able to ignore the talk that's around you, for example, now, the Grand Slam, the career?  Before it was No. 1?  Are you able to do that and to focus on that?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: You know, it's such a long way, and, I mean, of course when I start the year, the expectation to playing in Paris, that was the goal, to really playing here my best.  And, yeah, now, of course, the expectation are be a little bit lower with everything with what happen in the last few weeks.  So really, I'm not thinking about this.  I'm here to, yeah, to dealing with the situation to, yeah, trying to getting better every day with the foot still, and this is the focus on.   
 Q.  It sounded like it was, I guess, more serious maybe than you might have thought it was that morning in Madrid?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah.   
 Q.  Yeah, once you flew back to Germany and had it checked out, how bad was it?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, it was -- of course, it could be even worser, but it was not good.  So, like, two weeks ago I was not even able to walk really good.  So I was really, just, like on my couch, yeah, even one week, a little bit more, doing my treatments and everything.  My physio was with me.   
That's why I'm really happy to being here and doing such a process over the two weeks right now, because it was a little bit more serious than I thought in Madrid.   
 Q.  But being back here, I'm sure it got a little bit of a facelift, the grounds at Roland Garros.  What is your kind of sense of the new tournament grounds and how different it looks?  Does it feel different?  I don't know, if it changed the paint, does it change how you feel at the event?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, it's a little bit different, but I like it.  Yeah, I mean, to coming here and to see all the changes, all the things that they change, it's amazing.  It's great, and it feels a little bit different to last years.  Also the locker rooms and everything a little bit.  But it's nice.  It's always nice to see the changes, the process that the tournaments are getting bigger and even nicer, so it's great to see it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT