CHINA OPEN
October 7, 2015
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
   
 Q. Talk about how you felt going into the match and how you kept the momentum going right till the end.   
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I feel very well from the first point. I played actually, yeah, good tennis until the end. I mean, the end was very tough and close actually because I was trying, you know, to go for it. But she was playing a little bit better. I know Caroline, she is like fighting till the last point.   
It was very close at the end actually. But I'm actually happy about my performance today and that I managed to win in two sets against her.   
   
 Q. A couple weeks ago you said, I'm a little tired. I'm trying to take it one match at a time. Tonight you looked incredibly fresh during a tournament that a lot of people are looking pretty tired. Are you more tired than you seem? Where is your energy level at this point?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: You know, of course, I'm not fresh like at the beginning of the year. I'm also a little bit tired, like every player right now.   
But, you know, I'm still thinking from match to match and try to take all my energy I have left and just try to staying in the moment, focus just point by point and just try to run and stay in my (indiscernible) actually.   
Yeah, I'm a little bit tired still. But I'm trying to not thinking about this.   
   
 Q. Have you found over the course of your career that at this point of the year the first and second rounds have been a lot more difficult than maybe in years before?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, that's true actually. But, you know, there are so much good players coming, it's so close right now, so it doesn't matter against who you're playing, you must play like very good tennis. Yeah, playing from the first round your best tennis actually.   
It's getting tougher. But, I mean, I like the competition. It's good for tennis and for the people around, I think.   
   
 Q. How do you find it playing in the air pollution? Is it difficult or distracting?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, it's a little bit difficult. You know, I think it's for everybody the same. Of course, it's different than normally. But I'm trying to, like, stay in my rhythm and just trying to not thinking about this, just trying to play.   
For the other one, it's the same.   
   
 Q. Do you think the China Open this year will be a good opportunity for a championship?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I'm not thinking so far. I'm here in the quarters right now. I'm looking to the match against Aga. That's my next focus. Then let's see what's happen.   
But I'm just playing from round to round, day by day, and let's see what's happen, yeah.   
   
 Q. Against Aga, obviously some memorable battles. Do you ever look forward to playing a player like that or do you not?   
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I know that it will be tough match against Aga, like always. I mean, we played a lot of tough matches in the past. For sure it will be next one coming.   
But, you know, I'm actually looking forward because I know that it will be a good match. We both playing very well at the moment. I'm just looking forward to a battle against her and, yeah, trying to be aggressive, playing like I played here the whole week. Of course, to win the match, that's my goal.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT