DONGFENG MOTOR WUHAN OPEN
September 29, 2015
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
   
 Q. Another three‑set match for you. Talk about the match a little bit, how you were able to pull it out in three sets, and also what you thought about the court, how it's playing.   
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, first of all, I think the court was very nice to play. I mean, the stadium was, yeah, just great. To play there, new stadium, it's always nice.   
The match, I mean, I start very well. In the second set I lost a little bit my rhythm. She played actually much better in the second set.   
The third set was very close. I mean, every single game was very close. It was up and down from her, from me. I was just try to, like in every match, keep going, fighting.   
Yeah, I'm happy to won my first match here.   
   
 Q. The way that the stadium is built, because it has not a full roof, it's a little bit closed at the top, does it sound different out there? Does it feel different compared to other outdoor hard courts that you play on during the season?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, the sound, it's a little bit different than when you play on the outside courts. But actually the surface is the same. The ball and everything is flying. You hit the ball the same, like on the other courts.   
But when you are looking on the other side, it's a little bit different when you serve. I think you get used to it very fast. It's a nice stadium, so I really like it, yeah.   
   
 Q. Is it a moment of the season when you start to feel all the matches you've played in the legs, and it's like, One more month, two more months, or do you still feel fresh enough?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: You know, when I'm staying on court, I'm really thinking on every single point. Of course, I mean, now the last tournaments are on my way actually. I think they are just like few left.   
So I'm just trying to take all my energy together and try to play every match good, try to play good tennis here and next week.   
At the end I'm not thinking too much about if I'm tired or no. Just keep going. Not thinking too much, I think.   
   
 Q. You said you played a lot of amazing matches this year, in US Open against Azarenka, and in Stuttgart against Maria Sharapova. Last night Maria retired because of her injury. Because you're in the bottom part of the draw, do you think it's your chance to win the Wuhan Open here?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: First, it's far away. Actually, I don't know against who I'm playing. I know who I'm playing my next match, and that's it actually. So I'm not looking on the draw.   
Yeah, I didn't see the match yesterday from Maria. Of course, it's sad. But, yeah, for me, I'm just like looking on myself, try to play my game, doesn't matter against who I'm playing. I'm not looking so far.   
I'm just playing and let's see what happen, who gets to the final, and at the end who win the Wuhan Open.   
   
 Q. Over the course of the last four years since you've made the breakthrough, become a top‑10 player, now with a little bit more perspective, when you look back, what was the moment where you kind of believed that you were an elite player?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: That's a good question.   
   
 Q. Or are you still waiting?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah (laughter).   
When I get into the top 10 for my first time, like four years ago, it's actually a long time right now, yeah, I was really happy. I was just try to playing consistent tournaments, consistent year to stay in the top 10.   
I think like after one year when I really stay consistent in the top 10 for one year, I start to believe, Okay, I'm really a consistent player, I'm one of the best players in the world.   
Yeah, it takes time to believe it. Right now I believe it. I'm a top‑10 player. Yeah, it's a good four years actually.   
   
 Q. When you believe that, when you start to understand you're an elite player, how does that change you? How does that change how you approach matches or your career? Or did it change you at all?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: You know, it change a little bit. I had much more confidence on the tournaments. When I'm going into the matches, I really believe in my game, believe in myself. That's changed, for sure.   
But me, like a person, I think I'm not changed too much. I mean, I'm the same like four years ago and like last year. This was always what I told to myself, that I would like to stay like I am and not change my personality because I'm an elite player in the world.   
I think I'm on a good way to stay, yeah, like I am and be still a good player and be confident and working hard to be better like I am right now.   
   
 Q. When you look back, is there a match that stands out to you? We talk to players and ask, What is your biggest win? What do you consider yours?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: You know, right now I think this year for sure when I won against Caroline in Stuttgart. I mean, that was amazing for me. My home country, family, friends, they are all in the arena. It was just amazing week for me there to play.   
Yeah, I think if I can say for this year, for sure when I won in Stuttgart, the Porsche Open in Stuttgart, yeah.   
   
 Q. Your match against Azarenka in New York was amazing. Many people were talking about it during the tournament and still since the tournament. Have some players come to you and talked to you about it?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, there were like few players that came to me also after the match, like writing me also some messages that it was a tough match, good match, so just keep going.   
I think also it was a tough match, very high match from both of us. We played on a high level. So, yeah, at the end of course it's tennis, so just one can win. But I think I take a lot of positive things from this match.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT