AEGON CLASSIC BIRMINGHAM
June 20, 2015
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. KERBER/S. Lisicki
  6‑3, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   You must have been very happy to get that out of the way nice and quickly today. 
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, I'm very happy about my performance today.   I mean, it's always tough to play against a German one, and also mentally it was not easy.
I was trying to play my game, focusing on my plan, and trying to move very well.   It works, so I'm really happy about my game today. 

Q.   How hard was it to sort of settle?   There had obviously been an a lot of rain disruption.   How did that affect you?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, of course it's not so easy when it's raining and stopping and you never know when you're going on court.
I was trying to reading a book and like trying to relaxing a little bit.   When I saw that the other girls are going on court I was preparing for my match like I'm doing every time.

Q.   You seem to have her number.   She's a great grass‑court player, but she's not managed to beat you in five matches.   What are some of the reasons for that, do you think? 
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I don't know.   I mean, I know that she's a great grass‑court player and she's serving very well.   So that was also my goal, to returning very well today.
I think it works very good.   I'm very happy like I played and about my performance.   Every match start from zero, so you need to be ready from the first point. 
I was, so I'm ready for like every match against her.   Yeah, I'm happy that I won the match against her.

Q.   You seemed to have had an unusual year.   There was a long spell between January and March without a win, then two titles in a row, I think.   You seem to be playing well again now.   What are the reasons for the ups and downs? 
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   It's tough to say what's the reason exactly, because it's always tough to play like the whole year very good.
So you always have like some tournaments where you're not playing good.   But, yeah, I think it was too much everything in these few months where I was not playing so well.
I changed to my older coach and I'm feeling good again.   I practice very hard and I'm very constant.   Now just trying to transfer my practice to the match games, and it works, so, yeah, I'm happy to be back again very strong. 

Q.   And as your career has gone on, you seem to have improved on grass.   You've had good results in three tournaments now on grass.   Do you feel that you're as good on this surface now as on the other surfaces? 
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, I mean, I like to play on grass.   The last few years I reach twice the Eastbourne finals; I reached the semis in Wimbledon. 
So I'm always playing good on grass and I like it, so I think I'm prepared to play good matches to win also close matches against tough, top players, like I am.
It's good to have like a lot of matches before Wimbledon.   That was my goal.   Yeah, tomorrow I have my fifth, so I think everything works. 

Q.   You mentioned on court after the match that Sabine has a tricky serve to play against on grass.   How will you approach Pliskova's serve in the final tomorrow?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I think it's similar the same.   Pliskova is also playing very well, very tough, deep, and strong.   So I think it will be like maybe similar like today, the match tomorrow.   But of course every single match start from zero and it's another day, another match. 
But, yeah, she has a strong serve as well, so I must be ready, yeah, to return it very well. 

Q.   And what will you do to prepare for the final now? 
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I mean, I will just doing the same stuff I'm always doing.   You know, warming up and then prepare everything before I'm going on the court, trying to focusing again on my serve. 
I think that's the most important thing, enjoying my next final and then having fun.   Let's see what's happen tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT