AEGON CLASSIC BIRMINGHAM
June 21, 2015
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. KERBER/K. Pliskova
  6‑7, 6‑3, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for our champion, please.  
   
 Q.   Congratulations on the victory today.   What did you feel was the best part of your game today that helped you win a grass final?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   You know, I think it was not easy to play against her.   She was serving very well.   I think the key at the end was my returns, and that I really fight and move very well until the last point.  
So I think that was the key for the game.   
   
 Q.   In that first set, you obviously lost it.   How did you regain your composure for the second and third sets?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, it was not easy because I was 5‑3 up, and of course I was a little bit disappointed about the first set.   
But at the end I knew how I am, and I really fighting until the last one.   So I was trying to forgot the first set and just trying to be in the moment and playing point by point, and, yeah, just being there fighting.   
Actually she was playing also very tough match today so it was not easy, but at the end I was really happy that I managed it.  
   
 Q.   How important was your coach today?   
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   He's always important, you know.   I mean, yeah, we spoke before the match and he was telling me the exactly right game plan.   So I had it in my mind the whole match and it works also in the very important moments.  
He was helping me the whole week and actually the last few months, so I'm really happy that he's here with me.  
   
 Q.   Will your training schedule become more intense as it gets closer to Wimbledon, or will it be similar?   
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   No, it will be similar.   I mean, to have few more matches I think it will be not bad.   I'm feeling good on grass.   That's the important thing, and that I really try to prepare how the best way I can do.   
It looks good.   I'm healthy, and that's the most important thing for me.   I'm really looking forward to, yeah, going to Wimbledon, you know.   
   
 Q.   How does it feel now to have titles on every surface?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   That's feeling very good.   I think this one is really special for me because it's the first title on grass for me, and here in Birmingham I had a great week.   Everybody is so friendly.   And the fans on the centre court, was amazing to play with the support.  
So it feels very good.   I'm really proud about my game.   
   
 Q.   It's a quick turnaround for you now.   You're still on the list for Eastbourne.   What are your expectations now?   Final in Eastbourne in 2012, so you're going to have a lot of expectation on you.   
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   You know, I don't have a lot of expectation also here.   I mean, I came here to have a lot of matches before Wimbledon.   That's also my goal in Eastbourne, you know, going there and have like few more matches.  
Let's see how many, and then going to Wimbledon with a lot of confidence.   So that's my goal.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT