AEGON CLASSIC BIRMINGHAM
June 15, 2015
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How does it feel to be back in the UK? 
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   It feels good actually.   I mean I love the grass season, so it's always nice to be back here in England.
Yeah, it starts the tournament here in Birmingham with the grass season.

Q.   You did very well at Wimbledon a few years ago and you're now a more established name.   Does that put more pressure, and how do you feel coming into the season?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   You know, I like to play on grass and I know that I can play very well, like I played few years ago in Wimbledon and also in Eastbourne where I reached two times the final.
Yeah, I'm just looking forward.   I'm healthy and worked very hard in the last few weeks.   Now I'm just looking forward to play some matches on grass to be ready for Wimbledon.

Q.   At the beginning of the clay season you mentioned clay hasn't always been your favorite surface.   Now you had a great season.   Does that change your preparation coming into the grass?   Do you feel better?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   You know, I have no expectation at all.   I'm really looking forward from day to day.   Yeah, I think it's change a little bit that clay will be like maybe not my favorite surface, but close to because I play very well this year on clay.
But now the clay season is over and I'm now focusing just only on the grass.   I'm feeling good on grass, so I hope I will play good tennis in the next few weeks. 

Q.   How are you feeling both physically and mentally about going into this tournament and going on to Wimbledon afterwards?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I'm feeling good.   It's good to have some tournaments like this before Wimbledon because you know that you have some matches.   It's important like also competition before like a Grand Slam and not starting your first matches in Wimbledon where you actually don't know really how it feels on the matches, because it's different when you practice and then going on, yeah, like some really matches or tough matches on grass. 

Q.   You said you didn't have any expectations, but what do you want to get out of this tournament this week? 
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   My goal is to have really good matches and a lot of matches on grass before I'm going then to London. 
But, yeah, of course trying to, yeah, taking my practice season, like I practice in the practice, you know, to take it in the matches.
Because it's a little bit different.   On grass you never know what to expect, so it's a little bit tricky actually at the end on grass. 

Q.   Are you looking forward to playing some of the more well‑known, higher‑ranked players in this tournament in preparation for Wimbledon?   What I mean is, is it good for your game to play better players this early on? 
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I think on this draw there are no bad players.   I think doesn't matter against who you play, you know you must play your best tennis.   Everybody is here to play good matches and to win the matches, of course.
They are like all players very tough and very good, so you never know how the others play.   Actually I'm just looking on my side and on my game, and that's my focus as I'm going on court. 

Q.   You reached Wimbledon semifinal before, and in tennis generally, do you think having had some success in a Grand Slam gives a slight mental edge to other players who have not reached the far stages?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I don't know.   I mean, I know that I can play very good at the Grand Slams too because I show it twice when I reached in the semis.
At the end I think you must play really good two weeks and have a little bit of luck, of course.   Everything should came together in the whole two weeks, and then you will have a great Grand Slam. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT