APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 14, 2015
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. KERBER/G. MUGURUZA
  0‑6, 6‑1, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Seems like the later you play the better it goes?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Seems like, but I don't know if it's you true.   Of course it's tough if you play so late.   And also yesterday when you finish like 3:10 3:15 and I was in the bed in, I don't know, 6:30 actually.   So I slept five, six hours today.
It's of course tough.   Yeah, I mean, that's tennis actually.   Sometimes it is like the last two nights for me. 

Q.   So what was that like last night?   Got there I think 12:30 something like that, played three hours, but kept going.   What did it feel like?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Actually, it was strange.   I never played so late.   You know, if you're waiting so long and it's like 10:00, 11:00 and they are still playing and it's raining and you're still waiting, you know you will go out there.   Doesn't matter what time it is, you will go out there.
So it was not easy to be focused at this time, but I was trying to, yeah, just thinking about the game and not thinking about what time it is. 
It was a tough match yesterday for me.   We played both great tennis.   Middle of the night actually.   So, yeah, but I think that's new experience for me.   I think I learned a lot from the last two days, last two nights, also how fast I can recovery and also believe in my body that I'm actually fit.
I had a great preparation, and I think that shows me that everything is good.   Before Melbourne it's good to know and have such confidence before the first Grand Slam.

Q.   So tonight I think it was just after 10:00 you lost 6‑0 in the first.   So what? 
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   First set I was actually not on the court.   It was tough for me to come in my rhythm because in the first set I was one, two steps too slow and I was feeling this.
So, yeah, after the first set I was trying to waking up and to moving a little bit better.   So it works at the end.   I will try to tomorrow, you know, maybe to make my warmup a little bit better and a little bit longer.   So, yeah, not losing the first set like 6‑0.

Q.   Pliskova said that she would prefer to face you tomorrow because you played more times.   What would you think? 
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I don't know.   I think every opponent is tough here.   It was a tough draw.   I play the semis tomorrow.   She played very well the last few months and has a great serve.   She hits the balls very fast.
I need to try to play like today:   move very good and play tough.   If I have the chance to get it and just hit the balls, yeah, I will try to give my best and, yeah, enjoy my next semis here.

Q.   You were a finalist here last year.   How much is that driving you?   You had four finals last year and didn't convert.   How much does this drive you?   Would you like to get a bit of revenge here?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah.   Of course I'm here in the semis right now and of course I'm playing here to win every single match and also to have a lot of the matches before Melbourne.   That was my goal.   Also in Brisbane I had three tough matches.
So I think, yeah, everything works good.   I mean, that was my goal, and let's see how many more matches I will have here, one or two. 
Then, yeah, let's see.

Q.   Last night I'm not sure what the officially translation was, but you said Gavrilova was possessed and playing really, really well. 
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yes.   I think it was very good match from both of us.   We played on the really high level, I mean.   She's a great young player. 
I think she will have a very good future for sure. 

Q.   After the first set how did you mentally stay and try to fight?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yesterday or today? 

Q.   Yesterday. 
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yesterday, you know, I lost the first set, but I know that it was a tough first set.   I had like one set point and I knew that I need to be ready for every single point and just fighting.
I was fighting until the last one like I ever try, and at the end, yeah, it works. 

Q.   Think you're finally on Australian time or still on a bit of German time?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I have no idea which jet lag I have right now, if it's German, Australia.   I have no idea.   I have both. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT