BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 15, 2019
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. KERBER/B. Bencic
6-4, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. That was pretty efficient in the end.  A little bit up and down in the first set.  Just walk us through that.
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I mean, she start really strong.  She really came out and play good tennis.  I was finding my rhythm a little bit, like especially in the first few games.
And then I start to stepping in a little bit and playing really aggressive.  I think that was the key that I really took the match in my hand, and I was going for it.  That was also the game plan, to really playing my tennis again.
Yeah, I mean, I played good.  And also in the second set.  Yeah, I think that that was the key, that I really was able to playing aggressive, especially in the second set.
Q. She said that you took her weapons away.  Did you feel like she couldn't hurt you?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: You know, I was really trying to focusing on my tennis.  So I was not looking too much on the other side on the court.  I was really trying to really staying concentrate from the first point.
Because you never know against her.  You have to play the last point.  She's always an opponent which is fighting until the last point.  This was also in my mind, that I have to play the last point really good.
Q. You have had good success against her recently, whether it's tonight or Hopman Cup or Wimbledon last year.  How much of that do you think is because you have come up with a game plan that works against her?  How much of it do you think is because you're a better player, you know, now than you were when you were facing her, you know, the first three times?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I don't know.  I mean, she also improved, and she's a better player now than she was a few years ago.  She had a lot of confidence.
For me it was important to, yeah, really stick to the game plan, because of course I know what to expect.  I know how she is playing.  She knows how I am playing.  It's always one, two points which decide the match, the set.
I was really trying to playing consistently the game plan and going for it.  Even if I make, like, one mistake, still staying on the line and being the one who is dictating the match.
Yeah, I think the last matches helps me also to really find the way how I have to play against her.
Q. Another young one next but not as familiar as today.  What are your thoughts about playing Bianca Andreescu?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: You know, she really played a great tournament so far.  She beat tough opponents.  She has nothing to lose.  She will enjoy the final.  Like me, I will also go out there and try to play like I played the last matches.
I know it will be tough challenge, as well, because she played well.  I saw the match today a little bit, and I know that, yeah, she is playing really hard and she is going for it.  So she is one who is really trying to taking the match also in her hands.
And, you know, it will be I think a good match on the high level, and I know I have to play also one of my best tennis, especially in the important moments then.
Q. Coming into this tournament, the losses that you had taken this year, what did you learn from those tough losses that maybe you applied during this tournament, because it's been -- it's seemingly a little bit of a different Angie this tournament.
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I mean, I have learned a lot, especially in the last few tournaments after Australia that I really on the right way to play, that I try to improving my tennis during my practice sessions.
But then when you're going on court, it's always a different style of tennis, because the nerves are, the pressure is there on court.  And I was really trying to focusing more on every single match, not looking too much on, like, right, left, and ahead.  Just doing my things also off court, all my things that I had to do here before I came.  And trying to, when I step on court, really playing really intense and focusing on my tennis.
That was actually the goal here to playing every single day the best I can play.  Yeah, and it works so far.
Q. How much of that is also to do with settling in with a new coach like Rainer and getting used to any new systems or practices and things like that?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, of course, I mean, it needs a little bit of time to get used to all the things before the matches, after the matches, during the sessions and everything.
I mean, I know that I can play good tennis, but everything around has to be also good.  And I think that needs -- I think the time until now, as well, that everybody knows how the other person is thinking, and he knows how I am before the matches, also after the matches, during the matches.  I think it was really important the last few weeks for both of us.
Q. When you're going through those sort of down times with results, do you ever think back, I have been World No. 1, I won three majors, I should be winning these sort of matches?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I mean, of course, when you have not the best results you are thinking about this, that you played so well in the last few years, last year, and you are always trying to coming back stronger, but you have always the up-and-downs.  You cannot be on top the whole year playing the best tennis.
This is what I have learned also during the last years, but it's important to playing consistently and always trying to do your best.  This is sometimes not so easy, because you are feeling sometimes not so good.  Then you have tough days, as well, and on the other day, you're feeling good.  So it's not so easy to handle all these situation also off court.
But I'm always trying to finding a way to, yeah, playing as good as I can on this day.  Of course I'm looking back on these days where I beat all the players, and I have been the No. 1 player in the world, winning Grand Slams.  So it's always in my mind, which will be forever, I think.
Q. Was there ever a sense of panic when you were taking -- you know, the loss to Collins or Hsieh or Doha, things like that, you know, new coach, new situation, other players might freak out a little bit.  How did you feel?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: No, I mean, I'm already going through up-and-downs, and I know already how it feels like to losing matches, having not your best day, and trying to handle the situation.
Of course you have always sometimes a little bit of panic but not like you don't know what to do.  It's just like going on court again, going your way, and, yeah, working hard.  I think this is always the best you can do.
Q. Do you have a certain shot that shows that you're confident at the moment?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I don't know.  I think here especially, every day is different.  I have no idea.  I have also, like, different opponents.  So every day I have to play a little bit different.  So I don't know.  There is no one shot at the moment.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT