BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY SUNCORP
January 6, 2015
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. KERBER/D. Gavrilova
  6‑3, 7‑5

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Happy to get through considering there has been a bit of damage to the top eight?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, I think it was a tough match actually.   I mean, we had like close games, and at the end it was also a little bit up and down from both of us.
I think, yeah, it's good to be now in the quarters, yeah, and have a lot of the matches before Melbourne.   I think that was my goal, and right now it looks good. 

Q.   What did you make of your opponent's performance?   First time playing against her?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, I don't know her actually before the match.   My coach told me some things.   But, yeah, she's a great player.   She's young, and I think she will have a great future for sure.
Yeah, I mean, she played great.   I think there are so many young players coming right now, so everybody is very tough. 

Q.   She was definitely going for her shots.   Was that sort of hard to counter? 
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, she was playing aggressive and going for her shots and it works actually also, so it was not easy for me to stay there.
But I was just trying to focus on my game plan, and, yeah, at the end it works. 

Q.   As a sort of first hit‑out for you, how do you see it?   What are the areas you need to work on going forward? 
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, now every single match now I'm looking forward to, yeah, to have, like I said, a lot of matches and just try and improve my game from the practice to the match games right now.
Yeah, then let's see. 

Q.   You talk about lots of game time.   Is that the key to preparing for this first Grand Slam, really getting that match fitness? 
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, I think so.   I mean, of course first it's good to have a lot of matches because we had right now a long break and just only practice and points when you're practicing, so it's not like that.   It's much different when you go out there.   You are nervous and you play again on the center court. 
So it's a little bit different, and for me I think the key is to have, yeah, good matches, tough matches before the first Grand Slam of the year. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT