CHINA OPEN
September 27, 2014
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
   
 Q.   Your first match is against Dellacqua.   You handled the first two pretty easy.   Do you think it's going to be different this time around?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   You know, I think every match starts from zero.   So I think it's still a tough match.   I mean, she played very well last week.   So I think I should be ready.   She's a lefty, so it's also a little bit different to play against lefties.   
But, yeah, it's a new game, it's a new match.   I will try my best.   
   
 Q.   What about Beijing or China Open impresses you the most?   
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   You know, it's nice to coming back here.   I have great memories from the last years.   Yeah, I think to be here every year, it's a little bit different than the U.S. tour and the Europe tour.   
Yeah, it's nice to be back and play here in front of the Chinese fans.   
   
 Q.   What is specifically tough about playing a lefty?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   You know, you are not playing so often against lefties.   It's actually just the serve.   It's completely different.   Also when you hit the ball, the spin is a little bit different than when you play against right‑handers.   
Yeah, but at the end we are all playing a lot of matches also against lefties.   In the beginning it's a little bit different, but then it's actually, yeah, the same like when you play against a right‑hander.   
   
 Q.   Over the years German players, you, Lisicki, Petkovic, in Grand Slams you performed well.   Also in the Fed Cup you performed very well.   What is your opinion on the German player development in these years?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, I think in Germany we have, you know, very good players right now.   We reached a Fed Cup final.   So I think it's good for German tennis and also for us.   I mean, yeah, we play in all tournaments, and there's some German player which is playing well.   
We know each other.   I think this year specifically the final against Czech, it's very important for us and for the German tennis.   
   
 Q.   This year in Asian competition, China has a lot of new tournaments and competitions.   What are your different feelings in China?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, I mean, China is for sure a different country.   It's completely different to the tournaments before.   
But, I mean, the last week was a new tournament.   It was nice.   Everything was good organization.   It was nice to play in Wuhan, in a new city.   
But, yeah, also Beijing is a nice place.   I like to coming back here.   It's good, yeah, like to see something new.   
   
 Q.   According to your current world ranking, do you think in the China Open you will feel more pressure this time?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   You know, I'm not looking about this.   I mean, I'm here and I try to enjoy the last tournaments of the year, try to play very good tennis in the last tournaments.   
I'm not thinking about pressure, about points, about rankings right now.   I will just try to keep focused, yeah, and play consistent like I did this whole year, try to play like the same until the end of the year.   
   
 Q.   As for each player, a Grand Slam title is your dream.   Last year's Wimbledon you never reached the last four of a Grand Slam.   What is your evaluation on your performance as for next year's Grand Slams?   What are your targets and goals?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, you know, the four Grand Slams of the year are the biggest ones and everybody would like to win the title or play well at Grand Slams.   
You know, for me it's still a tournament, still the same players actually.   Of course, there are always a pressure.   But for me, I will just, yeah, keep going, try to improve my game, try to play like the best tennis I can play in the Grand Slams, and then let's see what's happen the next years.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT