ROGERS CUP WOMEN
August 5, 2014
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How do you feel?   You were in the final two days ago.   Are you a little bit tired?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   No, I actually feeling good.   I practice today already.   I'm feeling not so bad. 
I'm a little bit tired.   But, you know, actually this is normal.   I was hitting the ball very good today, so I think I'm ready for tomorrow. 

Q.   In the final Sunday you were leading in the first set, but you lost.   What did you learn during this match that could help you this week?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I think I learned that, yeah, I was close to beat her or maybe to win the first set.   But, you know, I think I learned just that you need to play from point to point, doesn't matter how the score is. 
I think I had a great week.   I played a great final.   I coming here with a lot of confidence.   I'm happy to have some matches here. 

Q.   How do you see your week?   Did you set any goals for yourself this week?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   You know, actually my goals are for the Series, just having a lot of matches, getting ready for the US Open. 

Q.   For the US Open, are you confident that your health is good?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yes, I'm healthy and I'm fit.   The most important thing is, you know, to have good matches, tough matches, win some matches and, yeah, try to improve my game in the next weeks and get ready for New York. 

Q.   You were in the semifinal two times in your career in Grand Slams.   It's been two years now the last time.   Are you hungry to be there again?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   No, I think I played in all the Grand Slams always a consistent tournament.   I always get in the second week.   Of course, I will try to get better. 
But every tournament starts from zero.   I try my best.   This is my goal for the Grand Slams, to play round by round. 

Q.   We always talk about Sharapova, Williams.   These girls are superstars.   You're close in the WTA.   Do you like to be a little bit under the radar or you'd like to have more exposure?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   You know, I think, yeah, I like it how it is.   I think I'm most focusing on my tennis, and this is what I really love.   Of course, the off things I also like.   It's, of course, better to be now where I am than, you know, a little bit like three, four years ago when I was, like, in the top 100. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT