U.S. OPEN
August 25, 2014
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  A. KERBER/K. Pervak  6-2, 3-6, 7-5   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   Q.  If you could, just talk about the match today.  It's good to get the first one underneath the belt?  ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I think it was a very close match.  I start really good.  In the first set I played really good tennis, but in the second set the first few games was very close. I think she came in her game and she was playing unbelievable tennis.  I was just trying to, yeah, be tough, to try to get my rhythm back. At the end I think the key was just that I was fighting and believing in myself, and, yeah, hit the balls and just be aggressive and take that. I think, yeah, it was not easy match for sure.   Q.  Is it sometimes better to have a challenge in that first round and then be able to overcome it rather than have a real easy walk-through?  ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I think the first matches in the Grand Slams are not always easy, but I hope it will be better in the next one.   Q.  How do you feel about the way you played?  Do you feel like you're coming in in good form?  ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I'm feeling good.  I'm healthy.  I practiced very good in the last few weeks, and, yeah, I saw this also in the match. I mean, I was fit and I was fighting, you know, until the last one.  I was still feeling good. So, yeah, I think I had great weeks in the past now.   Q.  You enjoy the environment playing here?  ANGELIQUE KERBER: Of course.  It's one of my favorite tournaments.  Everything starts for me here, so I really enjoy to coming back here.   Q.  There were a couple other seeded players today who struggled a bit before they won their matches.  Is there some solidarity in that, that you weren't the only one?  ANGELIQUE KERBER: You know, actually it's the first round.  They are always not easy.  You are coming here and, yeah, you start the tournament, so it's tough. But, yeah, I actually don't know the scores from the other one.  But, yeah, it's like a Grand Slam.  You never know what's happen.   Q.  It's not surprising then?  ANGELIQUE KERBER: Actually not too much (smiling).   Q.  What's so tough about the round 1 match?  We just talked to Petkovic and she elaborated a little.  Can you talk about the toughness of round 1?  ANGELIQUE KERBER: You know, it's always tough.  I mean, I start good.  I was of course a little bit nervous, but like after the warming up I was there. Yeah, I mean, you know, you are playing also like the opponent are playing.  She was playing in the second set very good and it was close.  So there are just few balls at the end which, yeah, which changed. I was there.  I was try to fighting.  I think it was a tough one, but I'm really happy that, yeah, that I won the match at the end.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT