WIMBLEDON
July 1, 2014
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. KERBER/M. Sharapova
  7/6, 4/6, 6/4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   This is about your next match.   How do you feel about this confrontation with Eugenie Bouchard which you played in Roland Garros?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, I mean, the next match against Bouchard, it will be tough one.   I lost against her in Paris, but I'm feeling right now better and I'm feeling better on grass. 
I never played against her on this surface, so I will be focused like today just on myself.   Just try to be aggressive, play my game, and not focusing on her.

Q.   Which surface would you think you would have a better result?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I mean, I lost against her on clay, so I prefer right now grass (smiling). 

Q.   Can you take us through that period where you had the six or seven match points, how you managed to regroup after each one, and what it felt like at the end. 
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, you know, when I had the three match points in a row and I didn't make it, I was a little bit, yeah, nervous because I was thinking, you know, if it's now 5‑5, everything starts from zero. 
At the end I was trying to focus just from point to point.   I was telling me, you know, You can do it.   She will not make mistakes.   If you would like to win the match, you need to do it, to be aggressive, just go for it. 
Yeah, and I did it.   Yeah, I'm just happy that, you know, actually I won the match.   I think she didn't lost the match; I won it.   That feels good. 

Q.   Angie, what is your mentality when you take the court against Maria?   What do you know and tell yourself that you have to do that day?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   For sure you need to play really 100% and you need to be ready for every single point, because she is playing until the last point, like we see today. 
She is a great player.   She won like so many Grand Slams.   She's confident. 
So before I went on court I was just telling myself, you know, Just go out there, enjoy it, and play like you are at practice.   You know, not focus on her, just focus on yourself, yeah, and believe that you can beat her. 

Q.   The German football team never lose penalty shootouts.   You come through seven match points and won.   What is it about you lot?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I don't know.   It's a good question.   I don't know (laughter).   That's completely different, I think.   I don't know. 

Q.   Is there a certain steeliness in there?   You refuse to give in at any point?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yes, I mean, you know, I was trying to play point by point and just focusing on myself and just fighting and run.   I think it was a really good match on a really high level.   I mean, I think the crowd was enjoy it, too.   Like us. 
I mean, I enjoy every single moment on court today, and I'm happy that I won the close battle against Maria. 

Q.   Did you watch the football team last night and draw inspiration from that?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yes, I saw the match, and I'm happy that they won yesterday. 

Q.   The crowd seemed to be behind you today.   Did that surprise you at all?   Sharapova is normally a big favorite here. 
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yes, for sure.   She won here.   She's a big champion. 
But, you know, I was just enjoy the moment.   I played with a lot of fun.   It was not my first time on Centre Court.   It was nice that the people was supporting me. 
Yeah, it was good actually. 

Q.   How do you regroup from such a big win going into your next match?   Do you anticipate there might be a letdown meeting Bouchard? 
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   You know, of course it's a big win for me, but the tournament, it's still going.   The next match is tomorrow, so I will now focus on my match tomorrow, the next round, and be ready for that. 
Of course it's a great win and I'm happy about that, but I will prepare now for the next match, next round, and keep ‑‑ try going. 

Q.   You and Maria were supposed to play yesterday.   The match got called off.   Can you walk us through what your day was like yesterday.   At what point did you find out you were off for the day?   Now you have to play back‑to‑back matches where Genie got the day off. 
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, I mean, yesterday was a long, long day for waiting.   I mean, I think it was 7:30 they told us, Okay, it's canceled right now. 
Yeah, I mean, it was tough actually.   But I think it was good that we are not walk on court yesterday because, I mean, if the match is like today, we just could play like one set or like one and a half and it was dark. 
So I think they make a right decision move us to today. 

Q.   Was there any thought of maybe moving you to Centre Court and having that match finish there?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Actually, I don't know.   I don't know that. 

Q.   What is your opinion on the noise that Maria was making? 
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   No, I mean, when you are in the tunnel you focus on yourself.   It was not my first time to play against her, so it was okay because I was not listen to that actually. 
Because, you know, when you are out there you try to focus on every single point and on yourself. 
Yeah, for me was fine.   I don't know for you. 

Q.   Do you have to learn to tune it out?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yes, a little bit.   But it was not the first time.   I knew before the match that it's like that. 

Q.   What was it like the first time you played her then?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I don't remember.   I mean, you know it because you know Maria.   You know when you watch also the matches on the TV or you watch the matches on the Centre Court, so you know that she is like she is, how she's playing. 
It's actually for me like normal that she's doing this. 

Q.   How was your game different from Roland Garros?   What did you improve?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I think I'm a lot of more confidence right now.   I had great matches last few weeks.   I won like close matches. 
I like to play on grass and I try to be aggressive.   Everything works together right now.   I think that makes my game also dangerous.   Yeah, of course it's different to play on grass or on clay. 

Q.   Do you find it surprising that an English crowd take to a German girl on Centre Court because of the historic rivalry between the two countries in sport?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   No.   I mean, I was not thinking about that.   Not really, no. 

Q.   I was wondering, do you think there was any sort of Fed Cup hangover after having to make that long trip down to Australia?   Do you think it had any impact on your performance in the clay season?   Maybe now you feel like things are better, or is there no relation whatsoever?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I don't know.   It's hard to say.   Of course after the long trip you felt a little bit tired.   I mean, it takes a bit of time to come back with the jetlag and everything. 
But it's hard to say if this is why my clay season was not the best like last year. 
I mean, right now I just can say I'm back, I'm feeling good, and, yeah, I have no pain and I'm healthy.
So that's very important. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT