WIMBLEDON
July 2, 2014
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 E. BOUCHARD/A. Kerber
  6/3, 6/4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   How hard was it just to come back one day after that long, tough match with Maria?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   You know, I think it was really tough.   I mean, I don't have really time to recover after the match yesterday.   
Yeah, I try my best.   I did everything yesterday what I could.   But, yeah, she played a great match today.   She hit the balls on the line, down the line, so actually she played a great match.   
But, yeah, I tried.   For sure, I mean, I feel everything after the match yesterday.   Yeah, that's it.   
   
 Q.   I guess the 3‑All, the four breakpoints, you look back now and might have changed things a bit.   
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, I mean, I was fighting till the last point.   I was trying.   I was still believe that I can maybe change the match and the game.   
But, yeah, I mean, it was tough.   She was playing good in the important moments.   Yeah, all credit to her.   
   
 Q.   Are there many players who are as aggressive as her?   When it's dangerous, she seems to get more aggressive.   Is that just because she's young?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I don't know.   I mean, she played great in the last few months.   Yeah, she shows that she can beat also the good players.   She's young, she plays great tennis, and she's aggressive.   
For sure it's tough to play against her.   But, yeah, I mean, if you play your game I think it's close.   I mean, it shows today, too, that some games was very close.   But at the end she had more luck actually.   
   
 Q.   Did you know before the match, because she was able to play on Monday, that she might have an advantage in terms of rest?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, I mean, it's tough to say.   But, of course, I mean, she had much more time to recover after her fourth round.   
But, yeah, what can I say?   I mean, that's happen.   
   
 Q.   Do you think she could go all the way?   How do you evaluate her play versus Halep?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I don't know.   We will see.   She played good.   I think Halep is also a strong opponent.   
Let's see who will win the match.   I don't know.   
   
 Q.   Overall are you happy with your tournament?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yes.   I think I played a good tournament.   I played a good match yesterday.   I will just take the positive things from the tournament and just try to keep going, to improve my game, and looking for my next tournaments.   
   
 Q.   IBM has been providing more detailed analysis of the games.   Has that been of any use to you?   Have you been able to gear your game to other opponents because of what you see there?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   You know, I actually not watching that.   I mean, my coach is looking a little bit of it.   
But I think I know what I should improve in my game.   I'm still working I think on a good way, so I think that's the most important thing, if you feel it what you should improve.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT