WIMBLEDON
June 26, 2014
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. KERBER/H. Watson
  6/2, 5/7, 6/1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Was it a tougher match than expected? 
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yes.   I actually expected a match like that.   I mean, Heather is a great player.   She's playing at home here.   She had a great results in the last few weeks. 
She's playing good on grass.   So I was trying to focus on myself actually to try to be aggressive.   I mean, in the second set she was playing better and moved much better. 
Yeah, I mean, I was trying to stay in the moment and try to be aggressive at the end.   So I'm happy that I won the tough battle against her. 

Q.   How far do you feel Heather maybe can go when she gets back to full fitness?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I think she has a great future.   I mean, she played well.   She hits the balls very fast, and deep the lines.   She's a very tough opponent, so you need to beat her. 
For sure she will have a good future.   That I'm sure. 

Q.   Your next match on Saturday will be against Kirsten Flipkens.   What are your feelings about that?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   You know, it's the next tough opponent.   I mean, she played great last year here.   She's playing good on grass. 
It will be tough.   I mean, I will try to play like today, like focusing on myself.   But, yeah, it will be not easy against her. 

Q.   Heather probably had the crowd behind her today.   What effect did that have on you?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   You know, yes, of course, I mean, the crowd was with her.   But it doesn't matter.   I mean, the support was unbelievable.   Playing on the Centre Court was a great feeling. 
So I was really enjoy every moment on the court today.   Yeah, I mean, the fans are great here, so it was a good match I think also for the crowd. 

Q.   Can you explain how you feel your game is on the grass. 
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I'm feeling good on grass.   I played good in Eastbourne last week.   I reached here the semis two years ago.   So I'm feeling good. 
I like to play on grass.   I like to be here again.   I have great memories.   So I'm enjoying every match here. 

Q.   Was there a point in the third set where you thought, I've got it now?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   You know, I think it was very important the first few games.   I mean, to be up 3‑0, it was very important.   Yeah, and then I think the game for 4‑1 was I think the key at the end. 

Q.   Were the conditions hard at all?   Watching it felt like it was quite windy.   Did that have an effect with people dropping serve?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   No, I don't think so.   At the end it was a little bit cooler and a little bit windy.   I mean, it was the same for both of us, so I don't think that this was something special, no. 

Q.   Two years ago you beat Kim Clijsters in the fourth round.   How do you compare Flipkens to Kim Clijsters on grass?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I think they are both completely different players.   I mean, of course they are both very tough opponents.   But, I mean, every single match start from zero.   It's a different opponent and a different match. 
Yeah, I mean, I will focusing now on her, her match, her game. 

Q.   Do you think it would be tougher to beat Kirsten than to beat Kim, who wasn't so great on grass?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I don't know.   I think it's tough.   Doesn't matter against who I play.   I mean, both are great players, great personalities.   I think it's tough to beat both. 

Q.   You saw what happened to Sabine in the final last year.   How confident are you about your mental strength?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I think I'm confident.   I played good matches the last few weeks.   So I will try to focusing on myself.   I'm going my own way and try to be not so nervous.   But, of course, you are always before the matches here nervous. 
But you go out there, try your best.   I think that count at the end. 

Q.   Do you watch World Cup?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I heard.   They won.   It's a good day for Germany now, yes. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT