AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 20, 2014
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. KERBER/C. Wozniacki
  3‑6, 7‑6, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   It's been a good week for you. 
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   It's a good week.   I mean, it was a very tough match today against Caroline.   I'm really happy about the way I played, and, yeah, to reach for the second time the final now.

Q.   It's going to be Madison Keys in the final.   What are your thoughts on that match?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   You know, it's a dangerous opponent, for sure.   She played here very tough and good matches.   She's a young, talented player. 
I played against her twice.   I need to be ready.   She has a great serve and she's playing aggressive. 
Yeah, let's see.   I mean, I will try to enjoy the final and I hope we will play good tennis.

Q.   How much is what happened here in the final two years ago still ingrained in your memory?   Because you had match points. 
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yes, that's true.   But I will be not thinking about that tomorrow.   That was like two years ago, and I think I improved also my game.   It's a new final.   It's a new game tomorrow.
I will just try to be in the moment tomorrow and enjoy the final and play like I played here the whole week.

Q.   Do you see this as good preparation for Wimbledon?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I think so.   That's why I'm here.   I mean, before I said that I will have like some good and close matches before Wimbledon, and it works.   Tomorrow is the last match before Wimbledon.
You know, I will go with a lot of confidence.   Doesn't matter what's happen tomorrow to Wimbledon, but right now I'm just focusing on the match tomorrow.

Q.   You're quite happy to go so far and certainly traveling down to London and starting on perhaps Monday?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, it's not so far to London, so that's good.   That's why I choose to coming here.
You know, I think it's better to have a match like that tomorrow than the practice, so I think it's good like it is.

Q.   There's nothing like winning. 
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   That's true (smiling). 

Q.   Did you have a chance to look at the draw at Wimbledon?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I just heard against who I'm playing in the first round.   That's it.   Because I was just saying that I will not watch the draw right now, because really I'm here at the tournament.   It's not at the end right now, so that's why I'm not looking at the draw right now.

Q.   You always play tough matches with Caroline.   How do you prepare yourself to step on court when you know it's going to be a tough battle?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, you know, we had such tough battles in the past and today.
You know actually before you walk on court it will be a tough one.   You will run a lot, because we had such long rallies also today, so, you know, just preparation with your mind to be there every single point and just try to play your best tennis against her.

Q.   Your physical fitness is pretty impressive.   How important a part is that for you when you know that you're going to face an opponent like Caroline who is going to make you hit a lot of balls?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   That's really important.   I mean, the fitness is really important in every single match and also to recover soon and to be ready then tomorrow, after tomorrow, for the next match.
I did a lot of work to be fit.   I also travel with a physio because it's really important. 
Yeah, also when you play like against Caroline where you are really running left, right, and it's not easy, it's one of the important things in tennis.

Q.   You made a massive jump up the rankings obviously like two, three years ago.   Was that connected to taking a different attitude to your fitness?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yes, I think it was also one of the points why I am jumping so high right now, because I make a lot of fitness work.   I'm feeling better right now.   So I think that's of course one of the things which makes me better.

Q.   You have always had really good results on grass.   How do you feel after a whole week practicing and winning matches?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, I'm feeling good.   I mean, when I come here and play my first points or balls I was feeling like, yeah, like home, actually, because I love grass.   I like to play on grass.   I think my game is also good for the surface.
Yeah, I enjoy to play like the two, three tournaments a year on this surface. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT