AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 19, 2014
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. KERBER/E. Makarova
  6‑2, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Nice and quick?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Nice and quick.   No, I mean, it was not so easy like the score said, because, yeah, there was tough rallies and also, before the match, I was knowing that it will be not easy because we had a lot of close matches in the past.
She's a great player on grass, so I was just focusing on me, trying to be aggressive and take my chances.   I think I did a good job today.

Q.   Did you get as much out of it as you wanted, looking ahead?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yes.   Actually, I think I'm proud about my game, and, yeah, I was aggressive.   Everything works. 
It's good to have matches like this and also close ones, which I had yesterday, before Wimbledon.

Q.   Right‑handed players don't often like playing left‑handed players.   How do left‑handed players feel about playing a lefty?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yes, of course it's not the same as to play against a right‑hander.   Right now I think there are some lefties, and I also practicing with left‑hander, so for me it's not really a big difference.

Q.   What are the big improvements you feel you have made in your game the last year?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I think I'm playing more aggressive than like one year ago, but I'm still improving and still trying to be more and also trying to improve my serve, but I think I'm on a good way.

Q.   You seem to like the grass. 
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yes, I like to play on grass.   That's why I'm also playing the week before Wimbledon to have, like, good matches on grass.   I had great memories from here, so, yeah, I like to play on grass.

Q.   Do you remember your first experience on grass?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   It was long time ago, when I played juniors.   I think that was my first experience, but it was good.

Q.   So your memories of Eastbourne don't include, Oh, my God, the wind?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Actually, no.   I think I have great memories from here.   I like coming back and, yeah, like I said, to have a lot of good matches before London and going then there with good confidence.
I think that was my goal.   And I think to have like one, two more matches here, it will be good.

Q.   What are your aspirations for Wimbledon?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   You know, it's like every tournament starts from zero, and I'm looking from round to round, trying to, yeah, to take my chances, to look on myself and just be focused on my game and then just enjoy the Grand Slam.

Q.   Do you feel good in your head about Wimbledon?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I'm feeling good.   I mean, I like to play on grass, so this is what is good in my mind. 
I have good memories also from Wimbledon.   I mean, I was not playing last year good there, but the Olympics was very good memories for me.   I played semis like two years ago there, so I have good memories from Wimbledon.

Q.   You said you enjoy coming back here.   Anything in particular you enjoy about coming here?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I mean, it's good everything here.   The hotel, it's close.   You can practice here.   The people are nice.   It's not so far from London. 
So I think this is very good.   Yeah, it's one of the ‑‑ not so many tournaments we have on grass, so, yeah, it's special.

Q.   Are you looking forward to an extra week of grass next year?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yes (smiling), because I like grass, so I'm looking forward.

Q.   Players always say they take one match at a time.   Is it ever difficult to not think about winning a tournament, whether it be here or when you go to Wimbledon and you're a top seed?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   No, I'm not looking about this.   I'm just focusing on myself.   I'm really just looking from round to round.   This is the most important thing for me.   I did it, and I will do it in the future, too.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT