QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 16, 2014
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. HALEP/A. Kerber
  6‑2, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Congratulations on a good week.   Can you talk about the match and how you feel what was working for you and what wasn't working for you today. 
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I think I was trying to play what I could today, and I think I make too much mistakes at the beginning of the match and make too much easy ones, but I think Simona was playing very well.   She played the whole week on a high level.
Yeah, I think she deserved to win the title.   I give everything I could, so, I mean, I'm still happy about the week.   Yeah. 

Q.   What kind of difficulties does a player face when they're playing someone like Simona who there is a lot of variation in her game?   Can you talk about that?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I think, yes, of course it's tough to play against a player like Simona, but I knew this before the match.   I was trying to play my game plan, but it was ‑‑it was not easy, because she was moving very good, and she hit the balls very well and on the line.   So it was not easy for me. 
But, yeah, I think I still tried fighting until the last point, and, yeah, I mean, what can I say?   I mean, just congrats to her.

Q.   She plays very fast.   Does that make it tougher that she seems to always be rushing her opponents?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, she played good the whole week.   As I said, I was actually not there at the beginning of the match, and she was up very fast.   I was then trying to find my rhythm, and I couldn't find it at the end. 
But I was trying to do everything, but she played better in the important moment and actually in the whole match.

Q.   You had a great week here.   You are the only one who didn't lose a set.   You're going to Dubai.   Are you feeling confident?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yes, I think I had a great week.   And still, the match today, she played actually better and I give everything.
But I am confident, and I will go to Dubai now.   I had great matches here, so right now I'm feeling good.   I'm going there, try to win there some matches, too.

Q.   We didn't get a chance to talk about it yesterday, but you played almost like the best point of the whole tournament.   Did you get to watch it again?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yes, I watched it last night (smiling).   I really love this point, so I hope it will be the point of the year.   Maybe let's see.

Q.   Speaking of Dubai, we mentioned this before, but now that this tournament is over, you get to play Ana.   Can you talk about that, and is it a bit weird to face someone ranked so high in the first round?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I think the draw in Dubai is very tough and there it doesn't matter against who you play there, it's a tough first round, but I'm looking forward.   I think it will be a good match.   I played Ana last time in Linz, and it was a tough match. 
You know, let's see.   I will go there tomorrow and practice once, and I then will go again on court and try to play good tennis and beat her. 

Q.   Did you expect first to finish this stage of Doha tournament?   My second question is since Steffi Graf, there is no German high‑caliber tennis for ladies.   Are you working towards that end?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   The first one was what? 

Q.   Did you expect to be in the final of this tournament before coming here?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   You know, I am going every week to the tournaments and try to get to the final, and I think we all are working hard and practicing every single day, and I'm happy that I was here in the final.   Of course I'm a little bit upset that I lost it, but, you know, every single week I try to get to the final. 
The second one, I think after Steffi Graf, yes, we have right now such great, amazing German players and so many, and it's great that tennis in Germany, it's growing up and it's more popular right now, and I think it's good for the German tennis. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT