AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 17, 2014
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. KERBER/A. Riske
  6‑3, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   You were one of the magnificent seven for Germany.   You are the only one who survive.   How does it feel?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   It feels good.   You know, I think we have so many good players in Germany.   Right now I'm just focusing on myself, and I'm just happy to be in the next round here.

Q.   No other particular satisfaction to be the last one?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I don't know.   Actually, I'm not thinking about this.   I'm just going my way and I'm just looking on my next round and not thinking about this.

Q.   Your life change in terms of tennis playing at the US Open when you had the great success beating Radwanska first and then also Flavia Pennetta, which everyone thought was favorite at that time, because you were No. 94, 92, 96?   Do you remember?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Something like this.   I don't know. 

Q.   So what do you remember of that match?   Were you surprised the way it went and have you met Pennetta again and talked to her and so on? 
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I remember that it was a very tough match against Flavia at the US Open, and I know it will be another tough match against her. 
She played very well and she's a great player.   She won also against top player.   She's one of the top players.   I mean, I will just try to play my game and try to play good tennis.
Of course, it will be a tough one, because Flavia is playing good, and also she played very good in doubles.   She will go for it.

Q.   Can you tell us something that we don't know?   Something about you and Flavia, some personal relations?   Are you friends?   Have you ever been out?   Do you talk to each other?   Do you have jokes?   Those kinds of things. 
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   We talk to each other.   I think we are friends.   We never go out together, but we have a good relationship. 

Q.   Are you going to ask anything to Mona on how to play Flavia, or do you think you know her enough?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I don't know.   I think I know Flavia good.   I think my coach know her also, so I will talk to my coach tonight or tomorrow, and I will make with him my game plan.

Q.   The two of you played four times and you won the most important matches in the Grand Slam.   Do you think that's a coincidence?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I think every match starts from zero, and I know that she will give everything she has to beat me, too.   It will be a tough match, and I need to be ready for that.

Q.   Do you think it's a coincidence winning the most important ones?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Maybe.   I don't know.   I hope.   Maybe not.   I don't know. 

Q.   Both you and your opponents' serves looked fairly shaky.   Is it something you want to improve coming into the next game?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yes, I will try for sure to improve my serve a little bit better.   Today I was a little bit shaky on my serve, and I think tomorrow on the practice court I will try to practice my serve a little bit more.
But at the end I think I was moving very good and try to go for my shots, but for sure my serve I think I will practice tomorrow a little bit more.

Q.   Do you think the only comparison between you and Rafa Nadal are because you're both left handed but you sign the autographs with the right hand or there is something else? 
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I don't know, but this is true that we are both lefty and signing, writing with the right hand.
But I don't know why this is so.   I have no idea.

Q.   Do you know why you started to play as a left hander?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I don't know.   I just take my racquet in my left hand and the pen in my right hand.   I have no idea why it is so, no.

Q.   Getting further into the tournament, Serena Williams obviously a hot favorite.   Is there belief in you particularly yourself that you can, if you come up against her, beat Serena?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   For sure she's the favorite.   But, you know, I always believe when I go on court that I can beat my opponent.   For me, it's always that I try to give my best and try to play good tennis.
For me, it doesn't matter who it is playing against me.   Of course she's the favorite, and she's the favorite here at the Australian Open.   But, you know, I'm feeling good and I think I'm fit, so I'm just looking on myself. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT