BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 11, 2019
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. KERBER/N. Vikhlyantseva
3-6, 6-1, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. What was the key to turning that match around?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think the key was in the second set that I turn around and that I came back after the first set.  But, yeah, like I said, it's never easy to play against someone.  You never know, like, you don't know how she's playing.
I mean, you can talk a lot, but when you are on court it's always different.  I think that I need a little bit time to adjust and, yeah, feeling also my rhythm, because the conditions out there today are completely different from two days ago when I was playing.
So at the end it was a tough match, but happy to be through.
Q. Was there anything in particular about her game that surprised you from what you looked at before?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: She was playing really fast and flat.  So that was something I was not really expecting so fast and hard.
So that's why I was trying to adjust, especially with my movement at the end of the first set and beginning of the second set.  And I think that was then for me the key to coming back.
Q. Do you think the training in European continental climate allows you to adjust faster to the cold than some other players?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I don't know.  I don't think you can prepare for these conditions and for these courts.  I think here it's always special to play, because also of the weather conditions and the courts are slow and you have to go for it.
So I think it's more that, yeah, that you try to improve every single day when you are here and trying to being confident about your game plan.
Q. Is it a different type of satisfaction when you come through a match like this where you did have to problem-solve and kind of win it in a different way than just, Oh, I played a fantastic match and just beat my opponent?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I think it gives me again confidence that I can turn around matches; that I can play also three sets; also in the close moments that I'm there, that I can trust myself.
I think that I had now, like, two completely different matches.  One really good one from the beginning until the end, and now today with few up and downs.  I think it's good also when I'm looking ahead to the next round.
Q. In the next round it looks like you might have Aryna Sabalenka as your next opponent.  What are your thoughts about that?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think it's the same situation.  I never played against her (smiling).
I mean, yeah, she had a lot of confidence.  She played very well in the last few months.  She is going for it.  She is hitting the ball as well really fast, and she is trying to dominate the game.
Yeah, I know a little bit about her, but it's the same.  It will be a new match.  We are starting from zero, both, and I will try to play like I finished the match today.
Q. Do you remember the first time that Sabalenka kind of came on your radar, like whether you saw a match result or...
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I remember it was Eastbourne when she won against Julia, I think.  It was also a coming-back match because Julia was leading.  I think she won the first set.
Because I was playing after and that was the first time like, I was really, like, yeah, that I was taking care about her.  I think that was the first time.
Q. Do you remember what your thoughts were?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I have -- no.  I was, just, like -- I was, like, I mean, I was not thinking too much.  But it was, like, the first time I was really, like, Okay, I think she will play good in the next few months and that's true.
Q. You played New Haven?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I played, like, few years ago, but this year I don't know yet.
Q. I was just wondering if you could talk a little bit about the tournament leaving?  And also, as far as I know, there is no tournament right now the week before the US Open.
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I have no idea.  Yeah?
Q. Is that going to be a problem?  Have you heard anything about the WTA...
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Not really.  Because my schedule now is until Wimbledon, so I don't know more.  Sorry.
Q. But you were aware that New Haven...
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yes, yes, yes, yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT