QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 14, 2014
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. KERBER/P. Cetkovska
  6‑1, 6‑0 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Well played.   Sometimes you can play well and get to the later stages of the tournament but be too tired to do yourself justice, say, in a final.   So winning a match like this so quickly, is it doubly helpful?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   You know, I think of course it helps if you win the match in two sets and to reach the semis, but I think I was playing well.   I was coming here on Monday evening.   I played every single round here I feel better and better.  
I'm just looking forward tomorrow to my semis here, and I hope I will play good again.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel good because your preparation is good, or do the conditions, which were a little slow perhaps, help you or what is it?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I think the preparation was very good for me.   I think I'm fit, I'm healthy, and I played a lot of matches in the last few weeks.   I think that helps me to come in the match situation and to play good tennis in the important moments, too.  
So I think everything comes together, and that's why I'm feeling good.  
   
 Q.   In this match when you got on top, was focus important to keep, stay on top and not let her have a chance?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Of course I think the mentally part it's also very important, and I try focusing from point to point and stay in the moment and stay in the match, and I think that this helps me, too, to win matches like that.   
   
 Q.   You play Petra or Jelena next.   Can you talk about each match separately since they are playing right now?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I think ‑‑I mean, I played against Jelena in Brisbane this year, and I lost in three sets.   For sure against Jelena will be not easy match.   
Also against Petra I lost against her in Istanbul also in three sets.   So doesn't matter against who I will play.   It's a tough semifinal.   
But I think I'm ready.   I'm looking forward, and I will enjoy the match tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Does it worry you a little bit that you weren't really tested in the past three matches because you spent very little time on court?   After a match like today, will you go maybe and practice some more maybe?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   No, I think I will prepare like for every single match the same way, and for me it doesn't matter if I play two or three sets.   Of course it's better to play two sets, but every single match start from zero and you need to be ready.   
Doesn't matter against who you play, and you need to play 100% because I think the draw here was very strong.  
To be now in the semis, it's good, but of course I will try to win the match tomorrow too.  
   
 Q.   Do you start the year with specific goals in mind of what you want or you just play it by ear?   If you do start it, what were your plans for this year or hopes?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   You know, my goals for this year, of course it's staying in the top 10 and to play really consistently, to not having too many up‑and‑downs, just trying to really improve my tennis and play the whole year very good tennis on a high level.   That's my goal for this year.  
   
 Q.   Can we speak about the surprise?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   The Fed Cup, or what do you mean?   
   
 Q.   I mean your win today, this afternoon.   Can we speak about the surprise?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I don't know if it's a surprise.   I mean, I played very well, and against Petra, I mean, she won against Na Li yesterday, so before the match I knew that I should play on a high level because, yeah, she won against a top‑10 player yesterday.   
I was just trying to focusing actually on myself, on my game, my aggressive game plan.   That works, so I'm happy about that.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT