BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY SUNCORP
January 1, 2014
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. KERBER/A, Pavlyuchenkova
  6‑2, 4‑3 (ret.)

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Almost last woman standing.   There's been a few withdrawals, and you had one in your match today.   It's the start of the season.   What's your take?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Actually I don't know.   I mean, I'm feeling good, so I don't know what actually other has.
I'm just focusing on myself.   I saw that Anastasia had something on her right or left leg and couldn't run at the end. 
But, you know, you have like six week off and you are practicing, and actually the matches are so much different than the practice things.
So maybe that's why so many withdrawals right now.

Q.   From a your viewpoint, how hard is it when you know someone is injured, to make them run? 
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   It's not easy because you know that the other one can't run, but you need to try just focusing on your game and play your game like she is also fit and not thinking about the opponent.
Of course it's not easy.   It's tough.   But you need to do this, yeah. 

Q.   In your own game, I mean, fourth round in three or four slams last year.   You've had a pretty good last two years. 
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yes, I have good last two years.   I hope that I can continue this also this year.   That's my goal for 2014. 
Yeah, you know, I'm feeling good. I had a good off‑season.   I'm looking forward to play tomorrow my next match. 

Q.   You talked about the difference in matches and practice.   Physically what's the difference?   Different level of tired?   Strain? 
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I think it's both.   Also like mentally it's so much different when you go out there and you play against the opponents, because it's now the game.   You are practicing like six, five weeks for this moment.
I think this is so much different than when you play against somebody just in the practice, like two sets.   It's much different than the real game here. 

Q.   Can you put your finger on something the last two years as to why it's come together for you?   Experience?   Perseverance?   Obviously you're learning.
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I think the most important is your experience.   You need to have good team around you and trust them, and, yeah, practice hard.
So that's the most important thing, uh‑huh.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT