TEB BNP PARIBAS WTA CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 25, 2013
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 P. KVITOVA/A. Kerber
  6‑7, 6‑2, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   First of all, congratulations, big fight.   It was a close match but many ups and downs out there.   What would you say made the difference in the end?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, I gave everything I could today.   Of course, I'm a little bit disappointed, but Petra was playing very well in the important moments.  
My serve was not really the best today, but yeah, I was just trying everything.   Yeah, at the end Petra plays better and just well done to her.  
   
 Q.   You played very well after the US Open this year, Tokyo and Linz and here as well.   Even though you only won one match, it was a lot of good tennis.   Do you think this sort of run can set you up well for Australia in 2014, or does the gap for two months make it harder to keep the momentum going?   What do you think?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, after the tough loss in Wimbledon I played very well in the US Open and the Asia tour, so I think all this year I think I had a lot of good experience and new experience.   So I think for the next season I will take everything with me and I have good preseason after my holidays, and I will prepare for the next season.  
So I think it was a very good year for me, and I'm still in the top 10 and I think that counts.   I'm really looking forward to the next year.  
   
 Q.   After a season like this, how long do you not touch a racquet?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   For sure, three weeks.   (Smiling).   I mean, I will make like minimum three weeks' holidays, and then we will see.   I think tomorrow I will sit with my coach and we will speak about the preseason, but first of all, I will take some days and some weeks off.  
   
 Q.   Are you headed to the beach, hot weather, or do you just go home?   What are your typical vacation plans?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I think I will go on beach, but I still don't know yet.   So I will decide it in the next few days.  
   
 Q.   Is it hard not to pick up a racquet for that period of time or is it simple?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I think the first few days will be simple.   After one, two weeks, we will see.   I think the three weeks will be good for my body and also for my mind to make something different and not thinking about the tennis.  
   
 Q.   Athletes often say that once they get to a certain elite level that it's harder to stay there.   Can you talk about that?   How do you feel?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yes, I mean, this year was for sure different than the last one, because I had a lot of points to defend.   And staying in the top 10 is for sure harder than to get there.   
I am now my second year in the top 10, so I think I played a consistent year this whole year and the whole season, so I'm just happy about that and I'm looking forward for the next season and for Australia.  
   
 Q.   You're kind of unique player because you can play really aggressive like yesterday.   You can do much defense like tonight.   But what is more nature for you?   Is it attack or defense?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I think I can play both.   I think my game is to mix it to play from the defensive but also playing aggressive, and now I try to work on the aggressive tennis and to hit the balls hard.   
But, you know, I mean, today Petra was playing also very hard, so I was trying to mix it a little bit.   I think that's my game also in the future.  
   
 Q.   That was a little bit my question, but what's the next evolution of your game?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yes, like I said, I think the next step is to play, you know, both things:   to play defensive and then go also for the shots and play aggressive and just play hard and to move good.   I think also I need to improve my serve a little bit more, so these kind of things I will practice in the preseason.  
   
 Q.   And do you feel fresher mentally and physically now than you did a year ago?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yes.   I mean, it's different than last year.   I mean, this year I feeling for sure more confidence and better, because it's not new for me everything.   I mean, I'm feeling good here right now, and I'm just happy that I am the part of this whole thing and that I can play here the Championships.  
So it's of course the goal you have before the year start, and I reach it, so I'm very proud about that.  
   
 Q.   What are you going to remember most about your 2013 season, do you think?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I think the biggest moment was to win the final in Linz and my first title this year.   Of course, coming here, it's a big event, and I really enjoy my week and I was very happy that I can play and compete with the best players in the world.  
   
 Q.   For next year, I guess, where do you set the bar for yourself?   Is it sort of enough for you to stay sort of where you are, keep top 10, or do you want something more?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I think the most important thing for me what I learn also from this year is to think about me and about my tennis and try to improve my tennis.   Then if I, you know, go there and having fun and not thinking about pressure and about being in the top 10, just improving my tennis and then the success is coming, I think.   Yeah, not like this, but it's coming along, I think.  
   
 Q.   So can we expect to see you jumping in the pool today?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   You know, I think so, yes.   (Smiling).     
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT