WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 12, 2013
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. KERBER/K. Knapp
  6‑7, 6‑0, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Angie, please. 

Q.   Congratulations.   Talk a little bit about the match today, that first set, and how you switched over. 
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I think the first set was a little bit tough for me because I can't find my rhythm actually.   She plays good in the important moments. 
But, yeah, after the first set, I was just trying to change a little bit my game and try to play a little bit more aggressive and not moving too much around and so far from the line. 
So I think it works good after the first set, and I'm just happy to manage this match.

Q.   And how are you feeling coming into this?   I'm sure you're thinking about last year, how your experience was in this tournament.   Is that factoring in at all even today? 
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, of course.   Of course when I come here I had a lot of good memories from last year.   Of course I feel a little bit the pressure, you know. 
But I just try to enjoy every moment here because it's a great tournament and I love this place.   So I just try to play my game and focus on me and not thinking too much about this from last year that I have to defend some points. 
Yeah, I just try to play my game.

Q.   And for your summer, it was a little bit different too compared to your summer from last year.   Was there anything specific that sort of made a difference? 
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   No, I think this year's completely different from last year.   Last year I had nothing to lose, and I just go to the tournaments and play my game. 
Now I'm of course feeling the pressure and I have every tournament to defend some points.   It's completely different than last year, but I think this year it's not too bad. 
So I just try to improve my game more and more.   And I think the year, it's not end right now.   There are some tournaments more, so I will just try to play from tournament to tournament and match to match. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT