BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 9, 2019
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. KERBER/Y. Putintseva
6-0, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You have to be happy with that opening performance here.  Can you just talk through the match, please.
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, it was a good match for me.  I mean, I was feeling good from the beginning.  And, you know, I was trying to staying so focusing after the first match to -- the first set, to really get through the second set, as well, like the first one.
Yeah, I think that I was playing really aggressive.  Yeah, it's good to start the tournament like that.
Q. The weather has been a bit sketchy over the last few days.  Are you relieved that today was not as blustery, not as wild as it's been for the others?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I mean, I think the conditions are good for me.  I mean, it was quite nice to play also first match and you know exactly when you are playing.  So, yeah, it was a good day for me to start.  Yeah.
Q. For you on this surface with the balls and the conditions and everything, what does this surface -- like, what are the good things this surface helps with your game, and what are the things that sometimes maybe you have to adjust to that maybe hurt your game that you need to adjust against?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I mean, the courts are really slow.  You have to adjust, of course, with your footwork really good, and you have to go for it.  The balls are not coming to you, so that's why it's always good to come here a little bit earlier, because it's completely different also than to Miami and Dubai and Doha and everything.
Yeah, you never know how the wind is, if it's coming, or the sun, as well.  Sometimes you have the shadow on court.
I think there are a lot of good things but also a lot of things where you have to adjust, like I said, especially with your footwork.
Q. You have Vikhylantseva next, Natalia Vikhylantseva.  What do you know about her and do you have any idea what to expect?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I never played against her.  I know a little bit about her game, but, yeah, I think it will be another match for me where I have somebody who I never played before.
So, you know, I think that I will, yeah, talk to maybe a few players and just see, yeah, how she is playing.
But I think for me it doesn't matter.  It's another round here, and I will try to play like I played today, to continue, yeah, the game I'm playing right now.
Q. What's the balance when you're playing somebody for the first time?  Is it trying to figure out their game, or is it purely sticking to yours, or a mixture of the two?  At what stage do you work out where you can...
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think it's both.  I mean, of course you are focusing first of your game, like how you are playing, how you would like to play against the opponents, the match.
But on the other side, you need always, like, few games to really feel, see how the other one is playing.  I mean, of course if you see some videos about how she was playing or, like, somebody is talking to you, Okay, this is better, this is worse, or whatever.
It's always not like when you are playing on court, you're playing against her.  You need always a little bit of time to adjust, as well, yeah, how your opponent is playing, especially when you play the first time against her.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT