WIMBLEDON
June 25, 2013
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. KERBER/B. Mattek‑Sands
  6‑3, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   What did you think when the draw happened on Friday and you saw your name come out against Bethanie?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, that I would have a very tough first round.   Because, yeah, I saw the draw and I saw that I play against Bethanie, and it was of course not easy to play against her.
This was actually my first...

Q.   Thought? 
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah.   You know, this is what I was first thinking.   It's not easy to play against her in the first round.

Q.   And you've never beaten her before, is that right?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   That's also the second thing I was thinking, that I never beat her before. 
Yeah, but then I was talking with my coach a little bit and he just told me that I play very good right now on the grass.   I love to play on grass.
I never played against her on grass, so this was my hope.   I think I did a good job today. 

Q.   What did you think you did well today? 
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I think I was the whole match there and I was just trying to play point by point.   She served very well today. 
I think also I had good returns in the very important moments, so this was also I think the key.
But, you know, she is a great player.   She served very well and she had great results in the last few months.
So it was not easy. 

Q.   Did you find it hard to get rhythm?   Because she seemed to hit lots of winners and lots of errors as well. 
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, of course it was not easy to get my rhythm, but I get it in the end. 
So I'm just happy about the way I played and just happy to be in the second round. 

Q.   Do you think much about last year, your run to the semifinals? 
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, I have great memories from the last year, but I'm not thinking about, you know, defense points or just losing points, winning points.   Doesn't matter for me. 
It's just a new year.   I'm here also like another person from last year because now I'm 7 or 8 seeded, I don't know.   But it's of course a new year for me, so I really enjoy it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT