APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 10, 2013
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







D. CIBULKOVA/A. Kerber
  6‑2, 4‑6, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   You got back in the match, and then the third set she got on top of you pretty fast.   Seemed hard to get back in it then. 
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, I was try to coming back, and the second set, I won the second set, but then she maked early the break and was up 3‑1, 4‑1 early.
So I was just trying coming back fighting every point, but she was playing, yeah, better and moving much better than me.   I was not playing my best tennis today, but was just try to fight until the last point. 
Well done to her.   I play semis here, and now I'm looking forward to play and go to Melbourne. 

Q.   Huge tournament next week, of course.   How do you get over the disappointment?   Just put it out of your mind quickly?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Of course I will try.   Of course I will speak with my coach after the match what I can do better next time, but tomorrow I will just focusing and forget this day today.
So just focusing on Melbourne and try to go there, practice, prepare like for every tournament, and yeah, just play. 

Q.   Take a couple days off just to rest and recover? 
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I think tomorrow I will play maybe once or maybe just make some fitness things, and then playing Saturday, Sunday once or maybe twice.   Depends when I play, Monday or Tuesday.

Q.   You've beaten a lot of players that are higher ranked than Dominika, but you haven't beaten her yet.   Why does she give you trouble?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I don't know.   She's a good player.   And I'm not looking about the ranking.   All players are playing very well.   Doesn't matter if it's the No. 1 or the No. 50 in the world, you need try and give every single time your best.
She's a good player and she's playing very well today.   Maybe next time it's my time and my next chance to win against her.   But today...

Q.   Is she hard to play because she goes for her shots so often?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Of course she is hard to play because she is moving very well and also go for the shots.   I need to try to be there for two sets.   Yeah, was not there today.   (Smiling.)

Q.   So going into next week, in order for you to reach your goals in Australia, what are the things you need to do? 
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Of course it's the first Grand Slam of the year.   I will just focus round to round and not thinking about, I don't know, to play semis or going to the quarters.   It doesn't matter, because you need to be there from the first round. 
I will just prepare like for every tournament.   I will do my things off court also try to work on court and then be ready for the match. 

Q.   If you were a tennis reporter for tomorrow night's final, who do you think could win? 
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I think it will be a very tough final.   They are both very well player.   I don't know.   I can't say who will win tomorrow.

Q.   There is a new tournament in Poland on clay.   Are you playing that or another small event?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I will play Monterrey, so I can't play the Poland tournament. 

Q.   Do you feel like there is any added pressure this year?   You came into 2012 off your big run at the US Open, and now this year you have such a good year behind you.   Do you feel like you've got something to prove now?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Of course there is a pressure, and I feel the pressure also from the media and from outside.   But I just try to, yeah, to focusing on me and not thinking about the pressure. 
Yeah, to play like last year I will of course play well and work and improve.   But if I'm not doing the pressure myself, then it's everything good.

Q.   When you finally get away from tennis, do you play golf?   Listen to music?   Shop?   What helps you relax and get your mind off tennis?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I like go to shopping, to the cinema.   Yeah, reading.   Maybe playing some games with my coach, like backgammon and cards.   Just not thinking about tennis.
Yeah.   I like swimming also, so sometimes I go swim.

Q.   Do you think maybe the pressure is off a lot of the other players because Serena has been playing so well that so many people expect her to win the tournament?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, Serena is playing very well.   Of course she won everything right now.   But the pressure is there.   I mean, I'm not thinking about this.   It's there.   I do my things.   I go my own way.   That's it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT