BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL
January 2, 2013
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. KERBER/M. Puig
  3‑6, 6‑4, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How much confidence does that give you just the way you fought back today? 
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   It was very tough match.   She played very well from the first point until the last one.   I didn't know her before, but I'm sure she's a future player because she plays and hits the ball so deep and so hard, moving very well.
So I was just try to finding my way in my game from, yeah, at the beginning.   I was not very, yeah, very good on foot, so I was not very moving very well.
But I was just try to fighting until the last point, and she starts very well at the third set.   It was 1‑4 after five minutes.
But, yeah, my coach is coming to me and just said, Just go out and try to play your game and find your aggressive game and just fight until the last point.   Doesn't matter what's happen.
I just try to, and of course I had a lot of confidence right now that I won again very close match like this. 
But, yeah, now I'm looking forward to playing tomorrow. 

Q.   In your preparation for a major, is it better to have such a tight result like that than to sweep through pretty easily? 
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Maybe.   I don't know.   Of course it's good to having matches like this that you need to playing 100% and just fighting like this.
But of course it's also tough physically, and I hope that I can recover soon and be fit tomorrow. 

Q.   Was it a pretty big surprise?   You really didn't know what that expect today?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, for sure it was a surprise how she played.   I didn't know her before, but, yeah, I'm sure that she'll coming very soon top 50.   Yeah. 

Q.   What was the most difficult?   Her serve? 
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I think she returns very well, so her return was great.   Also she moves good and just hit the balls very deep and hard.
So you just need to try to play like she was playing.   It was a little bit difficult today. 

Q.   Talk about that break‑back game in the third set.   You said you were down 1‑4.   You held your serve and then won that massive rally to get back in.   What were you thinking at that stage?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I was just thinking point by point.   I was not thinking what's happen.   I was not thinking what's can happen.   I was just really on court and just try to hit the balls, moving very well, and just fighting every point. 
That was in my mind and nothing else actually. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT