BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL
December 30, 2012
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   After such a great here year, how are you approaching this year?   Can you do any better.   I suppose you can.   But how are you approaching this year?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, I mean, I had very great year last‑‑ I mean, 2012.   
Yeah, this year I don't know.   I will just try to continue the last months which I was playing very well and I had the great pre‑season, so I any I'm right now ready for the new season.  
   
 Q.   What was one or two things that you learned about yourself or your game last year that you think was the key?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I think the first one was to believe in me and my serve.   I mean, I beat such a great players in the half of the year, and then I start to believe in me and just keep working and fighting until the last point.   
I think that's the two things which was learn last year.  
   
 Q.   First big win this year was Serena during her long winning streak.   Is that the sort of thing that gives you more confidence than any other thing you can do on tour?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   For sure the match against Serena was very big and very great win for me, so I had a lot of confidence after this match.   That shows me also that I can win against big players.   
Yeah, that's what I say.   That I believe in me and just try to continue my great play and my good work with what I was doing the last months.   
   
 Q.   Does it make you aware that other people outside of the tour know more about you and they see you as a bit more of a genuine challenger now?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, I think that's a good thing that the other players knew me now and also had a little bit respect for me.  
So I think that's a good thing for the next months.  
   
 Q.   Have you spoken to Petra...  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   To who?   
   
 Q.   Petra?   She hurt her knee.   
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Petkovic?   
   
 Q.   Yeah, yeah.   
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   No, I don't know what happens there yesterday, so I hope it's nothing serious.   But I don't know.  
   
 Q.   That victory you had over Serena in Cincinnati, for you was that a day where everything came together, and is that what you need to beat a player like Serena?   Tell us about that match itself.   
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, I play very well and I just go out there and just try to play my game, doesn't matter against who.   
So I was not thinking that Serena is on the other side of the court.   I think that was one of the secrets of this match.   I was focusing on me and not just Serena.  
But my serve was very well on this day.   She couldn't break me, so I think that was the two things which, yeah, decide the match.   
   
 Q.   Is that something sometimes when players come up against her that maybe they're beaten before they get on the court?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I think so.   My coach was telling me before the match to just focusing on you and not on her.   (Smiling.)  
Yeah.  
   
 Q.   Do you like the fact that there is such a short buildup to the first major of the season, or would you prefer to have it a little bit later and build up for it a little bit more?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   No.   I think it's a good start of the year to have this tournament and also this very strong draw here.   It's the first tournament, and then we will see also how the other players are playing, because you don't know what they did in the pre‑season.   
But I think for everyone it's, yeah, practice tournament to prepare for the Australian Open.   
But, yeah, we will see.   I'm very happy to be here for my first time.   
   
 Q.   I read somewhere that the Australian Open is your favorite Grand Slam.   
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yes, it's true.   
   
 Q.   Why do you like it so much?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I really like the people here and the weather.   It's everything so nice.   It's so relaxing to play here, to be here.   It's a very beautiful place here.  
   
 Q.   You enjoy swimming as well?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   Have you been to a beach since you've been here?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Not yet.   (Laughter.)   Maybe later.  
   
 Q.   Go anywhere in particular?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   No.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT