TEB BNP PARIBAS WTA CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 23, 2012
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S.   WILLIAMS/A. Kerber
  6‑4, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Your coach said something like you might feel more relaxed just because you have the privilege of having made it to this tournament already and that that's a big accomplishment.   Do you feel that way on court, that everything was easier because you already have this big thing of being here?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I mean, it was not easy, the match.   And playing here first round against Serena, it was very tough match and also a very tough fight for me.
But I think I‑‑ yeah, I mean, she played very well and I was just trying to be there.   I think I do everything I could today.   But I mean, I'm still here.   Tomorrow it's a next match and I can still qualify.   So I will just, yeah, take the good things from today. 
I mean, I was a little bit nervous in the beginning.   It's my first time here, Serena is a big champion, and I think she had a lot more confidence today.   So I think that was also the thing. 
But, yeah, I was feeling actually that I can play also consistent on the top level.   Well done to her today.   Tomorrow is the next day, next match, and we will see.

Q.   Speaking about that, that you're still here tomorrow, which format do you prefer:   round robin or regular, standard format?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, I mean, tomorrow is another day.   Against Vika, of course it will be a next tough match.   We are here at the Championships, and I think every match will be very tough. 
But I will just go out there tomorrow.   It will be my second round, so I hope that I will be not so nervous like today.   But it's unbelievable to play here with the crowd.   It's full and everybody is until the last point here and supporting you.
So it's really nice. 

Q.   So you do like round robin then?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah.   Yeah. 

Q.   You had beaten Serena the last time you two played in Cincinnati.   How do you think that changes your next match, both from your side obviously having confidence of having beaten her, but also from her side knowing she's playing someone that has beaten her and maybe it changes her attitude a little bit?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   She I mean, she plays today very well from the beginning.   Like I say, I was a little bit nervous in the beginning.   I mean, I was just trying to find my game and to play aggressive.   I make maybe a little bit more mistakes in the important moment than she, so that was I think the, yeah, the point.

Q.   Do you think that last match in Cincinnati affected today? 
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Maybe.   (Smiling.)







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT