TEB BNP PARIBAS WTA CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 24, 2012
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 V. AZARENKA/A. Kerber
  6‑7, 7‑6, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   That was a great match; lasted over three hours.   What are your thoughts after that?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, it was a very good match.   I think we show very good tennis to the crowd.   It was unbelievable to play there.   It was full, and, yeah, atmosphere was unbelievable.  
Of course I'm a little bit sad that I lost this match, but, yeah, I mean, I learned here.   It's my first time, and I take so many experience from this tournament.  
I'm really happy to be here.   I mean, I just give my best today, and I think Vika was playing very well in the important moments, so well done to her.  
   
 Q.   You had the two match points in the second set, so back to that.   Do you wish you played those points better or was that just Vika stepping up?   
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   No, Vika played unbelievable in those moments.   And also I was 2‑6 down in the tiebreak and I won it, so it was maybe the same thing.   I mean, I had the match points in the second set but she played unbelievable and I couldn't do nothing.  
So yeah, it's okay.   
   
 Q.   How much are you able to appreciate the quality of a match while it's going on?   
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, the quality of this match was unbelievable good, and I think it was a very high level that we were playing.   Of course there is just one winner, and one loser and Vika won today.   
Like I say, it was a very great match and I'm very happy that I was a part of them.   
   
 Q.   This is your first time at the Championships.   What are some of the things you learned here?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I can learn a lot also off court and on court.   I mean, it's the last tournament at the end, and, yeah, the best players are here.   I know that I can play very good matches against them, and maybe someday I win matches like this.  
I know that I'm now one of the top players, and I think it helps me for sure, this tournament, to get in the next level.   
Yeah, looking forward to playing next season.   
   
 Q.   After three hours running on the court, how was your body reaction?   Do you think you're going to run another three hours tomorrow to play against Li Na maybe?   
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, for sure I feel everything right now.   I mean, my body is a little bit tired.   Yeah, I play tomorrow my first match, first round.   Of course I have not too much time to recover.   
But, yeah, I don't know what to say.   I mean, yeah.   
   
 Q.   You beat Li Na in Indian Wells.   It was a great defense, at least to me, but she managed to get revenge in Cincinnati final.   What do you think maybe you will play different compared to that match back in Cincinnati?   
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, I will go out there tomorrow and try to give again my best; try to play aggressive.   Of course I will speak with my coach tomorrow morning I think, because today it will be too late about this match, and, yeah, make some tactic and also thinking about the match in Cincinnati.   
I'm really looking forward to play this match because, yeah, it's a great atmosphere out there, and I'm really happy to be here.   
   
 Q.   You said, Now I know that I can play with these players, that I belong with the top players.   You didn't believe it before?   
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   No, I believe it, of course.   I mean, last year, maybe like one year ago I'm not believe it, but right now, I mean, I had such a great year.   I'm No. 5 in the world, so I improved a lot.   I know that, yeah, I can improve more and more.   
I mean, today it was unbelievable match.   So, yeah, I know that I can take the experience for the next year and hopefully play, yeah, like this year next year.   (Smiling.)  
   
 Q.   When you're playing a match like that, can you enjoy it in the moment when you're playing, or is it not until maybe after the match that you look back and say, Oh, that was fun?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   No, I can enjoy it.   I mean, on court and also with the crowd it's unbelievable.   If you win the point everybody is clapping.   It's a great feeling out there with the support.   
Yeah, it's my first time in Istanbul and it's very great tournament here.   (Smiling.)  
   
 Q.   57 main draw wins in your first six professional years in total, and this year 60.   What can you say about that?   
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, I mean, I had a lot of matches this year.   Yeah, I don't know what to say.   It's of course a great year for me and I had a lot of good matches, the best season in my career.   
So yeah, I will choose my tournaments next year to play maybe not too much.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT