TEB BNP PARIBAS WTA CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 22, 2012
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Angelique.   
   
 Q.   What would you say was your stand‑out memory so far of 2012, and what level of confidence do you have coming into this company of players this week?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I think my greatest moment and memory was my first WTA win at Paris where I won my first title.   Of course there was a lot highlighted this year.   I reached the semis at Wimbledon and won my second title, so, yeah, I feel very good.   
I have a lot have confidence and I'm really looking forward to be here and a part of the Championships.   
   
 Q.   You can play Serena in your group, and you had a big win over here in Cincinnati this year.   Actually against both Williams sisters you've done well this year.   What do you think it is about your game or mindset that allows you to play so well against them when obviously so many other players struggle so much against them?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I just try to focus on me, try to play my game and have fun and enjoy the matches.   
Yeah, I mean, also here I will go out there and try my best.   I really enjoy my days here, and I will enjoy the next days.   So I'm very proud to be here.   I feel very good.   (Smiling.)  
   
 Q.   Congratulations for your highest career ranking.   I would like to know, do you know the special physicalities of Turkish culture, history?   If not, did you learn some tips, some things?   
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Actually not too much.   It's my first time to Istanbul, and I think I will learn a lot this week from Turkish and Istanbul and the history and everything.   
   
 Q.   It's your first WTA Istanbul Championships.   You were not competing last year and all the other players were competing last year.   They told great things about the atmosphere and the tournament.   Did they tell you about the tournament last year, the other players?   
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, I mean, it's of course very nice tournament.   It's the last tournament of the year, so I think that's the best players this year.   It's very honor for me to be here.   Every player is great, so I need to be 100% fit to play very well and maybe to win some matches.  
But I think I'm ready.   Yeah, I mean, I just having fun and try to give my best.   
   
 Q.   You've never played nowhere near as many matches as you have this year.   How is your body feeling?   Are you tired?   Are you still able to keep going, do you think?   What's this workload been like for you?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   For sure you feel the matches and your body needs of course a little bit of rest.   But I think the last two weeks I will rest and had a good preparation for Istanbul.   So right now I feel good, and I think I'm ready to play the matches.   
I mean, it's the last tournament, so that's in my mind.   After that I have holiday, so I think it will be a great week.   
   
 Q.   In February you beat Sharapova in indoor.   How important that was victory for your confidence?   
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, I mean, I had a lot of great wins and good matches this year.   I have a lot of confidence also right now.   So I'm here, I feel good, and it doesn't matter against who I will play.   
I think that was my best year, and doesn't matter what's happen right now.   That's just a bonus.   I am really looking forward, and I'm very proud to be here.  
   
 Q.   Did you have any moments this year when you woke up and said, Oh, my God.   I can't believe I'm a top‑10 player; I can't believe I'm in the finals?   
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yes, there were some times when I wake up asking me that's really true.   Like one year ago I'm some hundred and now I'm top 10.  
Yeah, I work very hard at the last pre‑season.   Yeah, I mean, it's really unbelievable feeling to be from last year to now top 10 and be here at the Championships.   
So it's really amazing.   (Smiling.)  
   
 Q.   Just following up on what Ben asked about physically how tough it's been this year, mentally I would think week after week going deep into the draws is more of a challenge than losing in the first or second rounds.  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yes, of course.   Mentally it's of course strong to go every week and play for sure three, four matches in each tournament.  
But, yeah, I work on my fitness.   Now I know that I can play like four, five, six matches in a row, and that's very important also for my mind.   
   
 Q.   In Wimbledon 2011, you played Laura Robson in the first round.   I'm sure you watched whatever else happened in the game, but what do you think of her development?   She's just outside of top 50 now.   Do you look at her as one of the future stars of the game?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, for sure she's a very great young player.   I lost against her last year.   She also played very well this year and she's now a top 50 player, so I think for sure she is one of the future player to coming.  
   
 Q.   Now that you're a top player you have to deal with off‑court obligations.   Do you have more contracts since last year?   How do you deal with these off‑court obligations.   
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, of course there are a lot more off‑court like press and interviews and everything like this.   But I really enjoy this and that's a part of the job.   
Yeah, I mean, I like it.   (Smiling.)  
   
 Q.   After the success you've had this year, do you realistically say to yourself going into next year, Yes I can be a top 5 player and yes I can win a Grand Slam?   
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, next year it will be for sure very tough year.   I need to be ready from, yeah, the first tournament.   It will be, yeah, another very tough year to really show also that I can play on this high level the next year.  
So I'm not thinking to be No. 1 or to win a Grand Slam right now.   For me, it's just very important to improve more, practice very hard, and enjoy the time, give my best, and to do my things.  
Then maybe someday that will become.   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   For sure you want to win, but except for winning, which result will be enough for you?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Here?   
   
 Q.   Yeah.   
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I really not thinking about the results.   I mean, I will go out there and try to play every single match very good and try to win of course every single match.   
Then after that we will see what's happen.   
   
  
  
  
  
  
         visit our archives at asapsports.com  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT