U.S. OPEN
September 1, 2012
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. KERBER/O. Govortsova
  6‑1, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Talk about the game today, how the heat affects you and how you're feeling. 
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I mean, I think it was a quick and good match for me.   I start very well.   Also the men's single before our matches was very long and I'm actually warming up three times. 
But I just try to be focused.   And, yeah, it was very hot out there.   So I think that was good that I played a little bit late, not so early.   Yeah, I mean, it was a good match for me and I'm happy to be in the fourth round. 

Q.   Is playing against Venus the other night in that sort of situation great preparation and experience for you to win a Grand Slam?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I mean, I'm not thinking about to win a Grand Slam right now.   I'm looking from round to round.   But for sure that was a very good experience for me to playing night session against Venus. 
Yeah, I won the match.   So it was, yeah, unbelievable feeling out there.   And, yeah, I'm happy that I won this match because it was very tough and close match physically and mentally. 

Q.   You played one other match that you lost on Ashe?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yes.

Q.   When was that?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I don't know.   Five, six years ago against Serena, so... 

Q.   So there was a big difference between when you first faced Serena and faced Venus?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, for sure it was different.   If I played Serena years ago there, that was, I don't know, my first or second year on the WTA.   Right now I'm feeling very well.   I can continue my good play from the last months. 
But doesn't matter.   It was a very good experience for me to play two days ago here on Ashe against Venus. 

Q.   Do you feel like your success started here?   Does it feel special being back?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yes, it's for sure special to be back here.   Because last year everything starts here.   I mean, nobody knows me one year ago.   Right now I also have a little bit pressure.   So it's for sure different than last year. 
But it feels good and I have a lot of good memories from last year.   So, yeah, I hope I can continue this. 

Q.   It seemed like for a third‑round match it was relatively easy for you. 
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I mean, it was not easy.   On a Grand Slam, you need to be ready, doesn't matter which round, doesn't matter against who do you play.   I would just rather focus on me and just play my game. 
I'm feeling great from the first point today, so yeah.

Q.   What are your thoughts on playing Sara Errani in the next round?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I think that will be a very tough and close match also.   I mean, I lost against her in Paris.   I will go out there and try to, yeah, play my game and hope to win this match. 

Q.   Off court you seem like you're pretty shy, but on court you show your emotions.   Do you feel like you're quite different on and off court?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Not really.   I mean, I'm for sure very quiet and not too loud.   But on court I just try to play my game and focus from point to point.   Of course, I'm a very emotional person, so it doesn't matter if it's on or off court. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT