U.S. OPEN
August 30, 2012
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. KERBER/V. Williams
  6‑2, 5‑7, 7‑5 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Is there ever a time when it's just too late?   I know tennis players play in all time zones.   
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, I mean it was late today.   But, I mean, for her it was the same.   I just to try to focus on my game right now and not thinking about what time it is actually.   
   
 Q.   You were very close to victory in the second set.   She was close to victory in the third set.   You get down, try to pull it back.   I know the quality wasn't the best, but talk about the fight.   
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, I mean, I start very well.   But she was fighting in the second set and play very great shots in important moments.   So I couldn't do nothing.   
In the third, she was up every time.   I was just try to fighting every point until the last point.   I had in my mind also the matches where I was down match ball and I knew that I can change it.   
So, yeah, I mean, I was just try to focus on point by point and not thinking what time it is, what's the score, and just play my game and try to win the points.   
I'm very happy that I won the very close match today.   
   
 Q.   So you put the towel over your head at the changeovers, talking to yourself on the baseline.   What were you telling yourself?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   To focus just on me.   I put my towel just to concentrate on my game and, yeah, just thinking about my game plan, what I was talking with my coach before the match.   Yeah, I mean, just concentrated on me, go out there and just fighting and playing point by point.   
   
 Q.   Did you feel like you were playing against the crowd, as well?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, but for sure.   That's normal.   She's from here.   She's such a great player.   She won so many Grand Slams.   And I knew this before the match that actually the crowd will be for her.   
But, I mean, doesn't matter if the crowd was for her or for me.   It was an unbelievable feeling to playing out there.   And it's my first night match here that I won, so that's very special for me.   
   
 Q.   Does the role of bad guy make you a little more determined to win?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, I mean, actually, no.   I just need to focus on me and not to, yeah, think about the crowd.   
   
 Q.   This is your first ever match on Ashe?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Second.  
   
 Q.   There was one woman shouting a lot during points.   Did you hear her?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I heard, but I just tried to not heard.   I mean, what can I do?   I couldn't do nothing.   I mean, that's okay.   
   
 Q.   Were you nervous at times?   At times you were playing aggressive.   
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, I was nervous at the end of the second set.   I mean, I was a little bit nervous and playing also not so aggressive.   I was too defensive.   
But then in the third set, I mean, I was 2‑4 up, I just said I have nothing to lose right now, just play your game and see what happens.   And, yeah, I won the match.   
It's amazing that, yeah, I won.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel more happiness or relief to get through the match?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   No, I mean, I'm very happy that I won this because I knew that was not a very easy second round.   I mean, yeah, actually I'm happy about the match.   
   
 Q.   They said on the broadcast you are on a streak of 19‑2 when you go into a third set.   What is your secret?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   That's a good question.   I don't know.   I really don't know.   I'm very happy that I won so many third sets in this year.   But the secret, I don't know.   Just fighting until the last point.   I don't know.   
   
 Q.   Did you talk to Venus at the end?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   She just told me, Well done, great match, and that's it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT