WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 18, 2012
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. KERBER/P. Kvitova
  6‑1, 2‑6, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
   
 Q.   This is your second time here and you reach the final.   Looks like this tournament is going to be your favorite one on the tour.   
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, I mean, for sure right now it's for sure one of my favorite tournaments.   I mean, it's amazing to be here in the final.  
Yeah, I come here to have a lot of matches before New York, and right now I'm in the final.   I beat Serena; I beat Petra.   
Yeah, I just, yeah, just enjoy the final tomorrow and having fun here.   
   
 Q.   How much would a title here mean to you?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, for sure a lot, but actually I'm not thinking about this.   I will just try to concentrate on the next match.   I mean, it's of course a final, but I will just think that it's just a normal match.   Doesn't matter if it's the final or the first round.   
   
 Q.   Tactically how did you approach tonight's match?   You were a defensive wall out there against Petra.   
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, I mean, my tactic was to move very well and bring the balls back and also deep.   So I tried to do this.   I start very well in the second set.   I mean, she hit winners and I had no chance actually, but I was just try to fighting until the last point and keep moving well.   
So, yeah, I do my plan actually very well tonight.   
   
 Q.   Do you have a preference between playing lefties and righties?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   For sure it's a little bit different if you play against lefty because most girls are right handers.   It's a little bit different.  
But after one or two games it's normal.   
   
 Q.   Do you have a preference?   
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   No.   (Laughing.)  
   
 Q.   What do you think about the matchup with Li Na?   What will you need to do?   
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   That's a good question.   I actually had no time to think about this now.   Again, I have nothing to lose I think.   I will go out there and I think she's the favorite.   She was in the final last week and played very great tennis also this night.  
So I will just go for it, try play like today and move very well, and if I have the chance, to go for it.   
   
 Q.   When you have a second set like that, are you the kind of person who you just takes it in stride and you're ready and go again in the third, or do you have to stop yourself and refocus?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, I need to say stop it to me and be focus.   Yeah, think about my game plan, what I'm doing well in the first set.   
Also my coach, if he come to me said the same:   just think about the next point and think what we speak before the match; try to go for it and not think about the second set or the points which are gone.  
   
 Q.   You don't have a great record against Li Na.   What do you think makes her tough to play?   
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I think she, yeah, she moves very well.   She can hit the balls very deep and very hard.   She has a great serve.   So it will be for sure a tough match.  
I need to play for sure 100% if I will have a chance to win this match.   I think I'm ready.   I feel very good here.   It's the final; I will enjoy it; I enjoyed my whole week here.  
Yeah, I think I'm looking forward to play the match.   
   
 Q.   Last year Andrea Petkovic was a semifinalist, and someone asked her about the other German players and she said great things about you.   She said she invited to you play at her academy for a few weeks.   
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, I speak with her after Wimbledon last year, and she actually not invited me, just asked me if I would like to practice with her.   I go to her and we practice like three weeks, and, yeah, after that I went to New York and play the semis.  
So, I mean, Andrea is a very close friends to me.   I'm very happy about her that she's back right now, yeah.   
   
 Q.   How did you think she's going to do on her comeback?   She predicted correctly great things for you last year; what about you?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I think I do the same for her right now.   Yeah, she had very bad time in the last months, but I'm sure that she will come back very shortly and play also very shortly very well again.  
So yeah, that's for sure.   So I think she's back soon.  
   
 Q.   Does this run relax you at all for New York?   Talk about points to defend for semifinals, and now you have all the points from Cincinnati.   
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I'm not thinking about this.   I'm really not thinking about points.   You go to the tournaments, you have to defend some points, but in the next tournament you win also points.  
If you will be a very good player and the top player, you need to play the whole year very well.   I'm not thinking about this.   I will go to New York.   Such a great memories last year.   I think I will just go through, try to play again very well, and we will see.  
   
 Q.   I think you won more matches than anyone this year.   Does that surprise you just to think it?   
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, I mean, of course it's amazing feeling to win so many matches this year.   I think last year on this time I had maybe ten matches that I won; right now it's more than fifty.   
Yeah, I also proud that I do this.   Yeah, I don't know.   I mean, I was last year 100 and now I'm top 10, so it's amazing.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel like a top‑10 player?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, I think I show everybody that I beat a lot of top players now, and so I think I am right now one of them.  
   
 Q.   Will you watch the men's final tomorrow or stay focused on your own game?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I think maybe both.   I think I will watch a little bit from the TV, but, yeah, try to focus on my game and be ready for the final.  
   
 Q.   Do you have a favorite, Novak or Roger?   
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   That's tough, but I like Roger.   (Laughter.)  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT