WIMBLEDON
July 3, 2012
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. KERBER/S. Lisicki
  6‑3, 6‑7, 7‑5 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
   
 Q.   Was that as tough as you expected?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yes.   It was a very tough match.   I mean, I think everybody saw that it was a very tough fight for both of us.   And, I mean, I actually don't know what to say right now because Sabine with playing also unbelievable in the third set.   She saved the match points in the second set.   
I was just with my mind a little bit in the final in Eastbourne where I lost with match points also.   So I think, yeah, it was a very tough, tough and important match for me.   
   
 Q.   If you lose that today, you must have been thinking as well having lost the Eastbourne final from match point up, that would really set you back a bit.   
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yes, I was thinking about this after, yeah, I'm not do the match points in the second set.   
But in the end, I mean, in the third set, it was 3‑3, and I just tried to forgot to think about the match points and everything what was done actually right now.   
But it was not easy.   She played very well also in the important moments.   I had my chances.   I couldn't take it in the second.   So, yeah, I mean, I think the challenge in the third set where I was serving, it was 4‑5, I think that was the change.   I think that saved my life in this match right now today.   
   
 Q.   You said Sabine stepped up on the match points.   Do you think that you could have done a little bit more on some of them?   Maybe you played a little passively, a little bit percentages against her on those?   
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I think it's tough to say because in this moment you really try to play aggressive, but it's not too easy to do this in these moments.   
Maybe there was one or two where I play a little bit passive, but she played very well in these moments so she made the points.  
   
 Q.   When you were down 5‑4 and you saved your life, what were you thinking?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Nothing.   I am just thinking that one challenge is for me, because I had 20, I don't know how many, and everything was wrong what I challenge.   
This was the first one that was right and for me.   It was 15‑All, not Love‑30.   I just laughing and just thinking I won one challenge actually.  
   
 Q.   So that kind of turned your mind?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yes.   And then I feel, Okay, it's 15‑All.   Just try to play point by point and maybe you can change it and maybe you win this match, and I do this then.   
   
 Q.   At this moment we don't know who your next opponent will be.   Radwanska, what are your thoughts on your comparative styles of game?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I think against Radwanska it will also be a long match and a tough one because she moves very well on grass.   She don't make a lot of mistakes.   Yeah, I think I played against her some times, and it was not easy.   I know that I need to play there on my high level to beat her.   
And also against Kirilenko it will be the same.   I never played before against her, so we will see.   First we will see who win, and then I make the plan against one of them.  
   
 Q.   Even though you haven't played Kirilenko, what impresses you most about the way she plays?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I don't see a lot from her, so I don't know how she's playing here.   I hope my coach saw a little bit, so I will talk with him about this.   
   
 Q.   What was your experience playing under the roof?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Actually, it was not a lot of difference.   I mean, it was good.   Everything was actually the same just the roof was closed.   But the grass was the same.   I think there was nothing different.   
   
 Q.   Can you explain your last 12 months, your development, your progress.   
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Okay.   I mean, last year I lost here first round.   I lost like 11 or 12 tournaments first round.   After Wimbledon last year I make a break and had three weeks practice before I went to New York.   I think this was the tournament was change everything for me.   
I go to New York and had nothing to lose.   My goal was just playing one round there and win one round.   I won one round.   
Then, I don't know, I was in the tournament, beat Radwanska and Pennetta, some good players there.   After this I really start to believe in me.   I also practice more and more, and I think I make a good preparation last year to be fit for 2012.   I think that's change.   
   
 Q.   There were times in the third set where you looked almost sarcastic, smiling when you made mistakes.   What was your mental state?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I mean, in the third set, I don't know.   She played actually very good and I had actually no chance against her some games because she served very well.   She makes the points, and I had no plan.   I don't know what to do out there in the third set.   
I think that's why I'm looked like this.   
   
 Q.   Were you surprised to stay in the set as long as you did?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yes.   I mean, it was 3‑5.   In my mind was just stay so long you can here and try fighting, play point by point, and maybe it will be changed.   
Because I know that you need to play tennis until the last point.   That was in my mind.   I knew it also from Eastbourne.   
So, yeah.   
   
 Q.   You've been training at a center in Frankfurt.   I wonder why you chose that one and what Larry Willens has been able to you?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   This year I was just there for four days.   I make my preparation there last year, that's true.   I think it's good because it's in Germany.   I know Andrea Petkovic there.   We practice together.   I think that's very important for both of us.   
I have also right now my team which are traveling with me and I have my coach which I practice at home.   I mean, if I have time, maybe like one, two weeks, I will go there again, but I have nothing actually with them.  
   
 Q.   Is it helpful?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yes.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk a little bit about coming into this tournament where you're the favorite in a lot of matches which is a difference, whether you like that position?   Do you feel like you can beat anyone now if you play your best?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yes, I feel very good on grass.   It's a little bit different like last year US Open or last year Wimbledon, because now everybody expect for me to be in the second week, win the matches against ‑ I don't know ‑ the girls they are behind me.   And I feel the pressure for sure.   
But I really just try to focus on me, try to practice on the tennis court, make my thing.   And I think that's helps me to go out there and play really good tennis.   
   
 Q.   What are your thoughts on the overall German success at this year's Wimbledon?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, that's very good for German tennis, I think.   Yeah, I mean, we have so many good players right now in Germany, that's really good to have it.   One of us is still in the tournament and can be‑‑ I don't know.   It's good for Germany.   
   
 Q.   Why do you think there are so many good Germans now?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I think now it's our time.   I think we all practicing together like from a young age and we know each other very well.   I think now it's our time.   
But everybody of us is going own way, and I think that's very important.   But, yeah, we are all friends.   That's good.   
   
 Q.   You reached the US Open semifinals last year.   Think about that in comparison to the semifinals here, back in a Grand Slam semifinal again.   Compare them.   
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, it's for sure different.   But, I mean, same as in the Grand Slam.   I don't know, it's a great victory for me.   It's for sure one of my, yeah, best things in my career right now to be in the second semis at the Grand Slams.   
I mean, I will go out there Thursday and try my best.   Actually, I have nothing to lose right now.   I will just try to play good tennis and enjoy the second semi Grand Slam final for me.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT