WIMBLEDON
July 2, 2012
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. KERBER/K. Clijsters
  6‑1, 6‑1 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   (Off microphone.)   
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I'm not thinking about this, actually.   I mean, I know that actually maybe her last Wimbledon, but I was going out there and know before the match that I need to play very good to beat her.   
I think I do a good job today, so, I mean, I'm very happy to be in the quarters right now.   
   
 Q.   What are your thoughts on facing Sabine in the next match?   What are your different styles of play and what sort of challenge is her game for you?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I mean, for sure it will not be easy match against Sabine.   She beat Maria today.   I know she play very well on grass.  
I mean, I said before the tournament I will look round to round, and now she is the next round.   It's good for Germans to have two players in the quarters and one of us in the semis.   
So, I mean, it will be a good match, I think, and I will try just to focus on me and try to do my thing on the court.   We will see who will win the match.  
   
 Q.   What do you do best on the grass, and what does she do best?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I think she has a good serve and play very aggressive and hard baseline shots, yeah.   And me, I think I play the same a little bit.  
I feel very good on grass.   I mean, I played the final in Eastbourne.   Yeah, I mean, I actually ‑‑I will say I have also nothing to lose.   I played last year.   I lost here in the first round, and now I'm in the quarters.   So I will go out there having fun and enjoy the match.  
   
 Q.   What are the best things about pressure and what are the worst things about pressure?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   The best things?   I don't know.   I mean, I think the best thing is what I can say is I enjoy this, and, I mean, pressure, it's actually good, I think, because you go out there and you know that a lot of people watching you and know who you are.   
Before, I mean, last year they didn't know who I am, so I think that's changed.   I think it's a good thing for me.  
   
 Q.   6‑1, 6‑1 in 49 minutes.   Do you have to pinch yourself?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, maybe.   (Smiling.)  
I mean, yeah, like I say, I played very good today, and I was just thinking point by point and not thinking about anything else.  
I think it was a good match for me, yes.  
   
 Q.   What do you think you did particularly well today?   What did you do?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I think I ‑‑yeah, I think I have a good serve today, better than in the last match.   Also play aggressive.   I think that was also my goal to go out and was my plan to play my game aggressive and move her a little bit.   So I think I do this and make my plan.  
   
 Q.   What does Kim's example and the way she has conducted herself among the players and among the public meant to a young player like you?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, she's a great player.   She's a legend also for me, I think.   She won a lot of Grand Slams.   
I know that I need to play until the last point, because if I will, I don't know, make her a little chance, that I know that she will take it.   And also, doesn't matter if it's 5‑Love in the second, I know that I need to play the last point to win this match.   
I think that's, yeah, that's her thing, that she's a fighter.   I knew this before, yeah.  
   
 Q.   How will you remember her career?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   That's tough.   (Smiling.)  
I remember a lot of matches of her, but because she's a great player, and also I watch a lot of matches on TV.   
So, yeah, it was nice to play against her, because I never played before.   I had the chance now at the last, maybe the last Wimbledon to play against her.   It's good that I won this match, I think, for me.  
   
 Q.   You said you remember a few matches from her.   I have to ask one or two that pops out of your mind.   
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   There was a lot.   I mean, I remember the final against Henin in Australia.   Yeah, I think the biggest where she was in the finals in the Grand Slams, I remember this.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT