BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 16, 2012
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







V. AZARENKA/A. Kerber
  6‑4, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   You made a deep run.   You had your chances on this match.   How would you evaluate your night and tournament as a whole?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, I mean, I had some chances.   I didn't get it, but she's a great player and she plays very good in these moments.
Yeah, actually, I did everything I can today.   Yeah, but she was better today.

Q.   You played her tough and you played her tight.   What did you think you were doing well that maybe was working for you against her game?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I think if I was playing aggressive, my game, she make the mistakes, but if I was a little bit defensive and just put the ball in the court, she makes the winners and play her game.
So I think also my serve was not the best today.   She returns unbelievable.   But, I mean, yeah, it was a great tournament for me, and now I go to Miami.

Q.   Obviously she hasn't lost any matches this year, but was there anything on the court that surprised you about her game?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, she's a good player.   I know that she's tough, and I know before the match that I need to play my best tennis to win this match.
Yeah, but I was enjoying this and take a lot of confidence for the next match.   It's okay.

Q.   Did you get a chance to talk to Julia and Mona or anybody else about the match?   What did they tell you?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, yesterday I spoke with them a little bit and I just try to make the tactic, but, I mean, yeah, not works, actually.

Q.   You have been on tour for a few years and you have been around a lot of different players who have been No. 1s, different eras.   Is the atmosphere on the tour any different with Azarenka as No. 1 that it has been for other players who have been No. 1 in your time?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I mean, not really.   They're all great players, and doesn't matter who's No. 1.   I mean, you need to play your best tennis in this level, so it doesn't matter who is on the other side.

Q.   Going to Miami, how difficult is the transition from playing in Indian Wells where it's very relaxed and it's dry and it's the desert to Miami where it's loud and, you know, hectic and humid and stuff?
ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I think we will see.   I mean, I will go there and make my preparation like here and try to give my best.   We will see.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT