U.S. OPEN
September 10, 2011
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. STOSUR/A. Kerber
  6-3, 2-6, 6-2

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. She jumped on you pretty early there. Was that a big experience for you, just being in your biggest match?
 ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, for sure. It was a close match, and I mean, the first few games was too fast for me. I come out there and it was everything new for me, so many people and the lights. As I warming up like two hours before, it was without lights, without people. Everything was different. It was too fast the first few games.
 But then I come in my rhythms and play my game aggressive, and, yeah, I won the second set. And then also it was -- it goes too fast the third set. It was two, three points which was close. I make mistakes, but she play very well in the first games. 
 Yeah, and then it was 5-0 I start to fighting and try to come back. And, yeah, I try everything what I can do today. So, I mean, it was a great tournament for me. It's one of my highlights in my career. So, yeah, I was enjoy the match for sure out there.

 Q. You talked about the people and the lights. Were you happy when you heard that you would be playing on Grandstand instead of Ashe?
 ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, yesterday I thought that we would play night session on the Arthur Ashe Ashe, but yesterday they told me us that play on the Grandstand. 
 Actually, I think it was not fair for us, yeah, that the semifinal of the Grand Slam is on the Grandstand. But, I mean, we can do nothing. They decided. 
 But, yeah, it was -- doesn't matter it was the Arthur Ashe or the Grandstand. The people support us so much. It was a great feeling out there.

 Q. You said there was nothing you could do. I mean, the men players stepped up and talked to the USTA and got a day off. Do you think the women need to step up? 
 ANGELIQUE KERBER: We was there. We was there also. Sam was also there and talked with the tournament director. But, I mean, they do it, so not we. They make the schedule, so we can't do nothing. You try. 

 Q. What's next for you now that you've reached a semifinal at the slam? What are your goals for the rest of the year?
 ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, actually my schedule was to go to Asia now for five weeks. But, yeah, I think first I will go home and make some days rest and enjoy, yeah, the great moments from here, and then I will start again practice and go to Tokyo-Peking and maybe one tournament more, and then I go to holidays.

 Q. How do you know if this is one good run for you or the beginning of you stepping up and becoming more of a challenger?
 ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think it's a beginning, because if it will be just, I don't know, a run that I win one match. But, I mean, I won here not one match, but I won against Radwanska in the second round, and I will lose the third round against somebody 6-1, 6-1, then somebody can tell you, Okay, it was just one match, which I play good and that's it.
 But I mean, I won five matches here. And also before I get to the semifinals in Dallas, so I think it's a new start for me for sure.

 Q. What are your expectations now in terms of challenging next year? What do you think you're capable of?
 ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think for sure now if I go to the Grand Slam I will try the second week, because I know that I can play with everyone here. Yeah, but I think there are some -- yeah, I need to practice for sure or make my fitness a little bit better.
 Yeah, and I will do this in the end of the year.

 Q. What would you say is either your best surface or your favorite surface?
 ANGELIQUE KERBER: I like grass, but actually, it's doesn't matter for me. I like everything. 

 Q. Did you have family here with you?
 ANGELIQUE KERBER: My mom is here with me, yes.

 Q. I saw someone with a big bouquet of roses. Were those for you?
 ANGELIQUE KERBER: With what? 

 Q. Someone supporting you. They had roses. For you?
 ANGELIQUE KERBER: I don't know. Maybe after, yeah. I don't know yet. (Smiling.)







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT