QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 13, 2019
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. KERBER/A. Kontaveit
6-1, 7-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. So it was pretty tough for you in the second set.  What do you think made it that way and how did you keep your focus in the tiebreak?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: You know, it's always not so easy after coming back after longer break and playing good tennis again, so I was happy about my first set.
In the second set, she had nothing to lose at the end.  She played better and better.  And, yeah, I was always really close to win the match, but she was always, yeah, fighting.  At the end I was happy that I close it out in two sets and played good in the tiebreak.
Q. She's been a tough opponent for you in the past.  Do you take anything from those matches coming into this one, or was it something you tried to put in the back of your mind?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: You know, we never played on hard.  We always played on clay, so it's always a little bit different.  I don't looking back on my clay court results.
I was more trying to focusing on another day, another match, and, you know, just try to learn from the last matches that I played against her.
Q. Not about today's match, but last year we have four different Grand Slam champions, including you.  Now, Naomi, she has won two consecutive Grand Slams and she became No. 1.  How do you think that WTA in general, do you think it became more wide open or how do you see like a future of this year the WTA?  What do you think your chances to win other slams or being No. 1?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think we will see.  I mean, the year just starts.  Like we see in the last years, it was always quite open.  I think it's still the same.  A lot of young players are coming.
You know, you have to play really consistent year to, yeah, to being in the top.  It's never easy, especially when the year just starts.
You know, it's tough to say what will going on in the next few months, but I'm sure we will see, like, a lot of good competitions.
Q. You have Barbora next.  You have never lost to her on hard courts.  Just your thoughts on that matchup?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, you know, it's another match against her.  I know what to expect.  I know that I have to play my tennis.  Yeah, she played good here already.  We practiced a few times together.
You know, it will be tricky match, because, you know, you never know, yeah, how the weather conditions are here as well tomorrow.  But, yeah, I'm looking forward to playing another good match here.
Q. It's been quite cold and also pretty windy this week.  What's worse?  To play in the cold or to play in the wind for you?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: You know, I don't know.  I mean, it can everything change in like five minutes here (smiling).  I was practicing like already the last few days like in the morning and in the evening.  It was hot, it was cold.  I actually don't care.
Q. A lot of players have been sick this week.  Wondering if you're taking any extra vitamins or other precautions to stay heathy this week?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: No, I have my physio with me.  I have my treatments.  I'm doing my schedule like every day, and I'm feeling good so far.
Q. Also these past couple of years you have different couple of coaches.  When you try to find a new coach, of course there are many things you want to improve, but what is the biggest key to find the new coach?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: It's not so easy.  You know, I had like my long-time coach, which I was split like few years ago, and then it's not so easy to find a good one.  But, you know, there are so many good coaches and you just have to look around and meet them and then, yeah, and then just decide, to see, try.
Q. Relatively we have fewer female coaches compared to of course guys.  Amélie just became coach of Pouille.  Do you think there should have been more female coaches or it's okay?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: It's okay (smiling).  It's okay.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT