QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 10, 2019
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. What's the target of this season for you?  What do you expect from this tournament?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I mean, first, it's nice to being back here.  I came a little bit earlier to get ready for this tournament and to get used to the courts, to the weather, conditions and everything.
You know, to playing here, the tournament, I think that's for sure the goal, to have good matches.  Yeah, having, yeah, a good time, as well.
And the year, it's just the beginning of the year.  For me, it's always the goal to have, like, a really consistent year to play good in the big tournaments.  This is also this year the goal.
Q. Can you tell us what you have been doing since Australia?  Have you thought much about what happened in Australia, your defeat to Danielle Collins?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I mean, yeah, a little bit, but it was just a bad day from my side.  You know, it can always happen.  I mean, it was of course not the best timing.  Yeah, she played good.  She played then also a lot of good matches after me.
You know, I was not thinking too much about this match.  Then I flew back home.  I had like few days off, and then I start to getting ready the few fitness days.  Then, like I said, I come here a little bit earlier to get ready for the tennis things more or less here we start.
Q. How do you look back at your performances in 2018?  Do you think the same level can be repeated this season?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: You know, of course I'm trying to improving my tennis every day and trying to playing every year better and better.  You know, you always have up-and-downs.  For me, I have so much experience right now when you play good, when you play not so good.
For me, it's important now to enjoying my tennis.  I think if everything came together, I can still playing better, playing the same, and, you know, it's always important to improving, improving my tennis.  This is what I'm trying to do.
Q. You have a lot of experience, but how do you see your chances this week in Doha?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: You know, here, a lot of players.  It's a tough draw.  You know, I like to play here.  I mean, of course the conditions are always a little bit different than if you play like during the day and the night sessions.
But this is a challenge, and I'm always looking for to coming here and playing Doha, then Dubai, like, the two weeks.  For me, it's, you know, to trying to, yeah, to playing good.
Q. Would you say your Wimbledon last year was the best performance ever?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I don't know.  I think I played a lot of good tournaments already.  You know, Wimbledon for me was, for sure, like, yeah, this tournament that I wanted to win one day.  That's for sure.  And with a lot of emotions last year.
But, yeah, I played also well in Australia when I won there, so I cannot really say that that was my best performance ever.
Q. Most memorable, perhaps?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yes.
Q. It's a great field here in Doha, but you have been quite consistent in Doha.  How will you fancy your chances?  Have you seen the draw?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I saw against who I could play, but that's it.  I mean, I'm not the player who is really watching the draw.  I know who is playing here.  I know it is a tough draw.
I think it's also good for us to have, yeah, huge competition.  I mean, this is always the challenge if you're going to the tournament.  Yeah, let's see.  I mean, the tournament will start in a few days.  I think I'm ready for that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT